Riverside College Classics

SELECTIONS

FROM THE WORKS OF

JOHN RUSKIN

EDITED WITH INTRODUCTION AND NOTES BY

CHAUNCEY B. TINKER, Ph.D. Professor of English in Yale College

BOSTON--NEW YORK--CHICAGO--SAN FRANCISCO HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY The Riverside Press Cambridge

1908

BY HOUGHTON MIFFLIN COMPANY

ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

The Riverside Press CAMBRIDGE--MASSACHUSETTS PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

PREFACE

In making the following selections, I have tried to avoid the appearance of such a volume as
used to be entitled Elegant Extracts. Wherever practicable, entire chapters or lectures are
given, or at least passages of sufficient length to insure a correct notion of the general
complexion of Ruskin's work. The text is in all cases that of the first editions, unless these
were later revised by Ruskin himself. The original spelling and punctuation are preserved,
but a few minor changes have been made for the sake of uniformity among the various extracts.
For similar reasons, Ruskin's numbering of paragraphs is dispensed with.

I have aimed not to multiply notes. Practically all Ruskin's own annotation is given, with
the exception of one or two very long and somewhat irrelevant notes from Stones of Venice.
It has not been deemed necessary to give the dates of every painter or to explain every geographical
reference. On the other hand, the sources of most of the quotations are indicated. In the preparation
of these notes, the magnificent library edition of Messrs. Cook and Wedderburn has inevitably
been of considerable assistance; but all their references have been verified, many errors have
been corrected, and much has of course been added.

In closing I wish to express my obligation to my former colleague, Dr. Lucius H. Holt, without
whose assistance this volume would never have appeared. He wrote a number of the notes, including
the short prefaces to the various selections, and prepared the manuscript for the printer.

C.B.T.

September, 1908.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION
    The Life of Ruskin
    The Unity of Ruskin's Writings
    Ruskin's Style

SELECTIONS FROM MODERN PAINTERS
    The Earth-Veil
    The Mountain Glory
    Sunrise on the Alps
    The Grand Style
    Of Realization
    Of the Novelty of Landscape
    Of the Pathetic Fallacy
    Of Classical Landscape
    Of Modern Landscape
    The Two Boyhoods

SELECTIONS FROM THE STONES OF VENICE
    The Throne
    St. Mark's
    Characteristics of Gothic Architecture

SELECTIONS FROM THE SEVEN LAMPS OF ARCHITECTURE
    The Lamp of Memory
    The Lamp of Obedience

SELECTIONS FROM LECTURES ON ART
    Inaugural
    The Relation of Art to Morals
    The Relation of Art to Use

    ART AND HISTORY

    TRAFFIC

    LIFE AND ITS ARTS

    BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

ILLUSTRATIONS

JOHN RUSKIN IN 1857 TURNER'S FIGHTING TÉMÉRAIRE CHURCH OF ST. MARK, VENICE ST. MARK'S: CENTRAL
ARCH OF FAÇADE

INTRODUCTION

[Sidenote: Two conflicting tendencies in Ruskin.]

It is distinctive of the nineteenth century that in its passion for criticising everything
in heaven and earth it by no means spared to criticise itself. Alike in Carlyle's fulminations
against its insincerity, in Arnold's nice ridicule of Philistinism, and in Ruskin's repudiation
of everything modern, we detect that fine dissatisfaction with the age which is perhaps only
proof of its idealistic trend. For the various ills of society, each of these men had his panacea.
What Carlyle had found in hero-worship and Arnold in Hellenic culture, Ruskin sought in the
study of art; and it is of the last importance to remember that throughout his work he regarded
himself not merely as a writer on painting or buildings or myths or landscape, but as the appointed
critic of the age. For there existed in him, side by side with his consuming love of the beautiful,
a rigorous Puritanism which was constantly correcting any tendency toward a mere cult of the
aesthetic. It is with the interaction of these two forces that any study of the life and writings
of Ruskin should be primarily concerned.

I

THE LIFE OF RUSKIN

[Sidenote: Ancestry.]

It is easy to trace in the life of Ruskin these two forces tending respectively toward the
love of beauty and toward the contempt of mere beauty. They are, indeed, present from the beginning.
He inherited from his Scotch parents that upright fearlessness which has always characterized
the race. His stern mother "devoted him to God before he was born,"[1] and she guarded her
gift with unremitting but perhaps misguided caution. The child was early taught to find most
of his entertainment within himself, and when he did not, he was whipped. He had no playmates
and few toys. His chief story-book was the Bible, which he read many times from cover to cover
at his mother's knee. His father, the "perfectly honest wine-merchant," seems to have been
the one to foster the boy's aesthetic sense; he was in the habit of reading aloud to his little
family, and his son's apparently genuine appreciation of Scott, Pope, and Homer dates from
the incredibly early age of five. It was his father, also, to whom he owed his early acquaintance
with the finest landscape, for the boy was his companion in yearly business trips about Britain,
and later visited, in his parents' company, Belgium, western Germany, and the Alps.

[Sidenote: Early education.]

All this of course developed the child's precocity. He was early suffered and even encouraged
to compose verses;[2] by ten he had written a play, which has unfortunately been preserved.
The hot-house rearing which his parents believed in, and his facility in teaching himself,
tended to make a regular course of schooling a mere annoyance; such schooling as he had did
not begin till he was fifteen, and lasted less than two years, and was broken by illness. But
the chief effect of the sheltered life and advanced education to which he was subjected was
to endow him with depth at the expense of breadth, and to deprive him of a possibly vulgar,
but certainly healthy, contact with his kind, which, one must believe, would have checked a
certain disposition in him to egotism, sentimentality, and dogmatic vehemence. "The bridle
and blinkers were never taken off me," he writes.[3]

[Sidenote: Student at Oxford.]

[Sidenote: Traveling in Europe.]

At Oxford--whither his cautious mother pursued him--Ruskin seems to have been impressed in
no very essential manner by curriculum or college mates. With learning per se he was always
dissatisfied and never had much to do; his course was distinguished not so much by erudition
as by culture. He easily won the Newdigate prize in poetry; his rooms in Christ Church were
hung with excellent examples of Turner's landscapes,--the gift of his art-loving father,--of
which he had been an intimate student ever since the age of thirteen. But his course was interrupted
by an illness, apparently of a tuberculous nature, which necessitated total relaxation and
various trips in Italy and Switzerland, where he seems to have been healed by walking among
his beloved Alps. For many years thereafter he passed months of his time in these two countries,
accompanied sometimes by his parents and sometimes rather luxuriously, it seems, by valet and
guide.

[Sidenote: Career as an author begins.]

Meanwhile he had commenced his career as author with the first volume of Modern Painters, begun,
the world knows, as a short defense of Turner, originally intended for nothing more than a
magazine article. But the role of art-critic and law-giver pleased the youth,--he was only
twenty-four when the volume appeared,--and having no desire to realize the ambition of his
parents and become a bishop, and even less to duplicate his father's career as vintner, he
gladly seized the opportunity thus offered him to develop his aesthetic vein and to redeem
the public mind from its vulgar apathy thereby. He continued his work on Modern Painters, with
some intermissions, for eighteen years, and supplemented it with the equally famous Seven Lamps
of Architecture in 1849, and The Stones of Venice in 1853.

[Sidenote: Domestic troubles.]

This life of zealous work and brilliant recognition was interrupted in 1848 by Ruskin's amazing
marriage to Miss Euphemia Gray, a union into which he entered at the desire of his parents
with a docility as stupid as it was stupendous. Five years later the couple were quietly divorced,
that Mrs. Ruskin might marry Millais. All the author's biographers maintain an indiscreet reserve
in discussing the affair, but there can be no concealment of the fact that its effect upon
Ruskin was profound in its depression. Experiences like this and his later sad passion for
Miss La Touche at once presage and indicate his mental disorder, and no doubt had their share--a
large one--in causing Ruskin's dissatisfaction with everything, and above all with his own
life and work. Be this as it may, it is at this time in the life of Ruskin that we must begin
to reckon with the decline of his aesthetic and the rise of his ethical impulse; his interest
passes from art to conduct. It is also the period in which he began his career as lecturer,
his chief interest being the social life of his age.

[Sidenote: Ruskin's increasing interest in social questions.]

By 1860, he was publishing the papers on political economy, later called Unto this Last, which
roused so great a storm of protest when they appeared in the Cornhill Magazine that their publication
had to be suspended. The attitude of the public toward such works as these,--its alternate
excitement and apathy,--the death of his parents, combined with the distressing events mentioned
above, darkened Ruskin's life and spoiled his interest in everything that did not tend to make
the national life more thoughtfully solemn.

    "It seems to me that now ... the thoughts of the true nature of
    our life, and of its powers and responsibilities should present
    themselves with absolute sadness and sternness."[4]

His lectures as Slade Professor of Art at Oxford, a post which he held at various times from
1870 to 1883, failed to re-establish his undistracted interest in things beautiful.

[Sidenote: Triumph of the reformer over the art-critic.]

The complete triumph of the reformer over the art-critic is marked by Fors Clavigera, a series
of letters to workingmen, begun New Year's Day, 1871, in which it was proposed to establish
a model colony of peasants, whose lives should be made simple, honest, happy, and even cultured,
by a return to more primitive methods of tilling the soil and of making useful and beautiful
objects. The Guild of St. George, established to "slay the dragon of industrialism," to dispose
of machinery, slums, and discontent, consumed a large part of Ruskin's time and money. He had
inherited a fortune of approximately a million dollars, and he now began to dispose of it in
various charitable schemes,--establishing tea-shops, supporting young painters, planning model
tenements, but, above all, in elaborating his ideas for the Guild. The result of it all--whatever
particular reforms were effected or manual industries established--was, to Ruskin's view, failure,
and his mind, weakening under the strain of its profound disappointments, at last crashed in ruin.

[Sidenote: Death in 1900.]

It is needless to follow the broken author through the desolation of his closing years to his
death in 1900. Save for his charming reminiscences, Præterita, his work was done; the long
struggle was over, the struggle of one man to reduce the complexities of a national life to
an apostolic simplicity, to make it beautiful and good,

    Till the high God behold it from beyond,
    And enter it.

  [1] Præterita. He was born February 8, 1819.

  [2] Ruskin himself quotes a not very brilliant specimen in Modern
  Painters, III, in "Moral of Landscape."

  [3] Præterita, § 53.

  [4] The Mystery of Life.

II

THE UNITY OF RUSKIN'S WRITINGS

[Sidenote: Diversity of his writings.]

Ruskin is often described as an author of bewildering variety, whose mind drifted waywardly
from topic to topic--from painting to political economy, from architecture to agriculture--with
a license as illogical as it was indiscriminating. To this impression, Ruskin himself sometimes
gave currency. He was, for illustration, once announced to lecture on crystallography, but,
as we are informed by one present,[5] he opened by asserting that he was really about to lecture
on Cistercian architecture; nor did it greatly matter what the title was; "for," said he, "if
I had begun to speak about Cistercian abbeys, I should have been sure to get on crystals presently;
and if I had begun upon crystals, I should soon have drifted into architecture." Those who
conceive of Ruskin as being thus a kind of literary Proteus like to point to the year 1860,
that of the publication of his tracts on economics, as witnessing the greatest and suddenest
of his changes, that from reforming art to reforming society; and it is true that this year
affords a simple dividing-line between Ruskin's earlier work, which is sufficiently described
by the three titles, Modern Painters, The Seven Lamps of Architecture, and The Stones of Venice,
and his later work, chiefly on social subjects such as are discussed in Unto This Last, The
Crown of Wild Olive, and Fors Clavigera. And yet we cannot insist too often on the essential
unity of this work, for, viewed in the large, it betrays one continuous development. The seeds
of Fors are in The Stones of Venice.

[Sidenote: Underlying idea in all his works.]

The governing idea of Ruskin's first published work, Modern Painters, Volume I, was a moral
idea. The book was dedicated to the principle that that art is greatest which deals with the
greatest number of greatest ideas,--those, we learn presently, which reveal divine truth; the
office of the painter, we are told,[6] is the same as that of the preacher, for "the duty of
both is to take for each discourse one essential truth." As if recalling this argument that
the painter is a preacher, Carlyle described The Stones of Venice as a "sermon in stones."
In the idea that all art, when we have taken due account of technique and training, springs
from a moral character, we find the unifying principle of Ruskin's strangely diversified work.
The very title The Seven Lamps of Architecture, with its chapters headed "Sacrifice," "Obedience,"
etc., is a sufficient illustration of Ruskin's identification of moral principles with aesthetic
principles. A glance at the following pages of this book will show how Ruskin is for ever halting
himself to demand the moral significance of some fair landscape, gorgeous painting, heaven-aspiring
cathedral.

[Sidenote: Underlying idea a moral one.]

Now it is clear that a student of the relation of art to life, of work to the character of
the workman and of his nation, may, and in fact inevitably must, be led in time to attend to
the producer rather than to the product, to the cause rather than to the effect; and if we
grant, with Ruskin, that the sources of art, namely, the national life, are denied, it will
obviously be the part, not only of humanity but of common sense, for such a student to set
about purifying the social life of the nation. Whether the reformation proposed by Ruskin be
the proper method of attack is not the question we are here concerned with; our only object
at present being to call attention to the fact that such a lecture as that on "Traffic" in
The Crown of Wild Olive is the logical outgrowth of such a chapter as "Ideas of Beauty" in
the first volume of Modern Painters. Between the author who wrote in 1842, of the necessity
of revealing new truths in painting, "This, if it be an honest work of art, it must have done,
for no man ever yet worked honestly without giving some such help to his race. God appoints
to every one of his creatures a separate mission, and if they discharge it honourably ... there
will assuredly come of it such burning as, in its appointed mode and measure, shall shine before
men, and be of service constant and holy,"[8] and the author who wrote, "That country is the
richest which nourishes the greatest number of noble and happy human beings,"[9] or, "The beginning
of art is in getting our country clean, and our people beautiful,"[10]--between these two,
I say, there is no essential difference. They are not contradictory but consistent.

[Sidenote: Art dependent upon personal and national greatness.]

Amidst the maze of subjects, then, which Ruskin, with kaleidoscopic suddenness and variety,
brings before the astonished gaze of his readers, let them confidently hold this guiding clue.
They will find that Ruskin's "facts" are often not facts at all; they will discover that many
of Ruskin's choicest theories have been dismissed to the limbo of exploded hypotheses; but
they will seek long before they find a more eloquent and convincing plea for the proposition
that all great art reposes upon a foundation of personal and national greatness. Critics of
Ruskin will show you that he began Modern Painters while he was yet ignorant of the classic
Italians; that he wrote The Stones of Venice without realizing the full indebtedness of the
Venetian to the Byzantine architecture; that he proposed to unify the various religious sects
although he had no knowledge of theology; that he attempted a reconstruction of society though
he had had no scientific training in political economy; but in all this neglect of mere fact
the sympathetic reader will discover that contempt for the letter of the law which was characteristic
of the nineteenth-century prophet,--of Carlyle, of Arnold, and of Emerson,--and which, if it
be blindness, is that produced by an excess of light.

  [5] See Harrison's Life, p. 111. Cf. the opening of The Mystery
  of Life.

  [6] Part 2, sec. 1, chap. 4.

  [7] See p. 159.

  [8] Modern Painters, vol. 1, part 2, sec. 1, chap. 7.

  [9] Unto This Last.

  [10] See p. 262.

III

RUSKIN'S STYLE

[Sidenote: Sensuousness of his style.]

Many people regard the style of Ruskin as his chief claim to greatness. If the time ever come
when men no longer study him for sermons in stones, they will nevertheless turn to his pages
to enjoy one of the most gorgeous prose styles of the nineteenth century. For a parallel to
the sensuous beauties of Ruskin's essays on art, one turns instinctively to poetry; and of
all the poets Ruskin is perhaps likest Keats. His sentences, like the poet's, are thick-set
with jeweled phrases; they are full of subtle harmonies that respond, like a Stradivarius,
to the player's every mood. In its ornateness Ruskin's style is like his favorite cathedral
of Amiens, in the large stately, in detail exquisite, profuse, and not without a touch of the
grotesque. It is the style of an artist.

[Sidenote: Ruskin's method of construction in description.]

A critical fancy may even discover in the construction of his finest descriptions a method
not unlike that of a painter at work upon his canvas. He blocks them out in large masses, then
sketches and colors rapidly for general effects, treating detail at first more or less vaguely
and collectively, but passing in the end to the elaboration of detail in the concrete, touching
the whole with an imaginative gleam that lends a momentary semblance of life to the thing described,
after the manner of the "pathetic fallacy." In lesser compass we are shown the environs of
Venice,[12] the general impression of the "long, low, sad-coloured line," being presently broken
by the enumeration of unanalyzed detail, "tufted irregularly with brushwood and willows," and
passing to concrete detail in the hills of Arqua, "a dark cluster of purple pyramids."

[Sidenote: His love of color.]

Equally characteristic of the painter is the ever-present use of color. It is interesting merely
to count the number and variety of colors used in the descriptions. It will serve at least
to call the reader's attention to the felicitous choice of words used in describing the opalescence
of St. Mark's or the skillful combination of the colors characteristic of the great Venetians
in such a sentence as, "the low bronzed gleaming of sea-rusted armor shot angrily under their
blood-red mantle-folds"[14]--a glimpse of a Giorgione.

[Sidenote: His love of prose rhythm.]

He is even more attentive to the ear than to the eye. But if we wish to see how aptly Ruskin's
style responds to the tone of his subject, we need but remark the rich liquid sentence descriptive
of Giorgione's home,

    "brightness out of the north and balm from the south, and the stars
    of evening and morning clear in the limitless light of arched
    heaven and circling sea,"[17]

which he has set over against the harsh explosiveness of

    "Near the south-west corner of Covent Garden, a square brick pit
    or wall is formed by a close-set block of house to the back
    windows of which it admits a few rays of light--"

the birthplace of Turner.

[Sidenote: His beauty of style often distracts from the thought.]

But none knew better than Ruskin that a style so stiff with ornament was likely to produce
all manner of faults. In overloading his sentences with jewelry he frequently obscures the
sense; his beauties often degenerate into mere prettiness; his sweetness cloys. His free indulgence
of the emotions, often at the expense of the intellect, leads to a riotous extravagance of
superlative. But, above all, his richness distracts attention from matter to manner. In the
case of an author so profoundly in earnest, this could not but be unfortunate; nothing enraged
him more than to have people look upon the beauties of his style rather than ponder the substance
of his book. In a passage of complacent self-scourging he says:

    "For I have had what, in many respects, I boldly call the
    misfortune, to set my words sometimes prettily together; not
    without a foolish vanity in the poor knack that I had of doing
    so, until I was heavily punished for this pride by finding that
    many people thought of the words only, and cared nothing for their
    meaning. Happily, therefore, the power of using such language--if
    indeed it ever were mine--is passing away from me; and whatever I
    am now able to say at all I find myself forced to say with great
    plainness."[18]

[Sidenote: His picturesque extravagance of style.]

But Ruskin's decision to speak with "great plainness" by no means made the people of England
attend to what he said rather than the way he said it. He could be, and in his later work he
usually was, strong and clear; but the old picturesqueness and exuberance of passion were with
him still. The public discovered that it enjoyed Ruskin's denunciations of machinery much as
it had enjoyed his descriptions of mountains, and, without obviously mending its ways, called
loudly for more. Lecture-rooms were crowded and editions exhausted by the ladies and gentlemen
of England, whose nerves were pleasantly thrilled with a gentle surprise on being told that
they had despised literature, art, science, nature, and compassion, and that what they thought
upon any subject was "a matter of no serious importance"; that they could not be said to have
any thoughts at all--indeed, no right to think.[19] The fiercer his anathemas, the greater
the applause; the louder he shouted, the better he pleased. Let him split the ears of the groundlings,
let him out-Herod Herod,--the judicious might grieve, but all would be excitedly attentive.
Their Jeremiah seemed at times like to become a jester,--there was a suggestion of the ludicrous
in the sudden passage from birds to Greek coins, to mills, to Walter Scott, to millionaire
malefactors,--a suggestion of acrobatic tumbling and somersault; but he always got a hearing.

[Sidenote: Influence of Carlyle upon Ruskin.]

[Sidenote: The unity of Ruskin's style.]

There can be little doubt that this later manner in which Ruskin allowed his Puritan instincts
to defeat his aestheticism, and indulged to an alarming degree his gift of vituperation, was
profoundly influenced by his "master," Carlyle, who had long since passed into his later and
raucous manner. Carlyle's delight in the disciple's diatribes probably encouraged the younger
man in a vehemence of invective to which his love of dogmatic assertion already rendered him
too prone. At his best, Ruskin, like Carlyle, reminds us of a major prophet; at his worst he
shrieks and heats the air. His high indignations lead him into all manner of absurdity and
self-contradiction. An amusing instance of this may be given from Sesame and Lilies. In the
first lecture, which, it will be recalled, was given in aid of a library fund, we find[21]
the remark, "We are filthy and foolish enough to thumb one another's books out of circulating
libraries." His friends and his enemies, the clergy (who "teach a false gospel for hire") and
the scientists, the merchants and the universities, Darwin and Dante, all had their share in
the indignant lecturer's indiscriminate abuse. And yet in all the tropical luxuriance of his
inconsistency, one can never doubt the man's sincerity. He never wrote for effect. He may dazzle
us, but his fire is never pyrotechnical; it always springs from the deep volcanic heart of
him. His was a fervor too easily stirred and often ill-directed, but its wild brilliance cannot
long be mistaken for the sky-rocket's; it flares madly in all directions, now beautifying,
now appalling, the night, the fine ardor of the painter passing into the fierce invective of
the prophet. But in the end it is seen that Ruskin's style, like his subject-matter, is a unity,--an
emanation from a divine enthusiasm making for "whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things
are pure, whatsoever things are of good report."

  [11] See p. 162.

  [12] See p. 139.

  [13] See p. 147.

  [14] See p. 121.

  [15] See p. 122.

  [16] See p. 149.

  [17] See p. 122.

  [18] The Mystery of Life.

  [19] Sesame and Lilies, "Kings' Treasuries," §§ 25, 31.

  [20] The Crown of Wild Olive, "War."

  [21] "Kings' Treasuries," § 32.

SELECTIONS FROM MODERN PAINTERS

The five volumes of Modern Painters appeared at various intervals between 1843 and 1860, from
the time Ruskin was twenty-four until he was forty. The first volume was published in May,
1843; the second, in April, 1846; the third, January 15, 1856; the fourth, April 14, 1856;
the last, in June, 1860. As his knowledge of his subject broadened and deepened, we find the
later volumes differing greatly in viewpoint and style from the earlier; but, as stated in
the preface to the last volume, "in the main aim and principle of the book there is no variation,
from its first syllable to its last." Ruskin himself maintained that the most important influence
upon his thought in preparation for his work in Modern Painters was not from his "love of art,
but of mountains and seas"; and all the power of judgment he had obtained in art, he ascribed
to his "steady habit of always looking for the subject principally, and for the art only as
the means of expressing it." The first volume was published as the work of "a graduate of Oxford,"
Ruskin "fearing that I might not obtain fair hearing if the reader knew my youth." The author's
proud father did not allow the secret to be kept long. The title Ruskin originally chose for
the volume was Turner and the Ancients. To this Smith, Elder & Co., his publishers, objected,
and the substitution of Modern Painters was their suggestion The following is the title-page
of the first volume in the original edition:

                    MODERN PAINTERS:
                  Their Superiority
          In the Art of Landscape Painting
                       To all
                 The Ancient Masters
                 proved by examples of
     The True, the Beautiful, and the Intellectual,
                       From the
          Works of Modern Artists, especially
        From those of J.M.W. Turner, Esq., R.A.
                By a Graduate of Oxford
              (Quotation from Wordsworth)
        London: Smith, Elder & Co., 65 Cornhill.
                         1843.

THE EARTH-VEIL

VOLUME V, CHAPTER I

"To dress it and to keep it."[22]

That, then, was to be our work. Alas! what work have we set ourselves upon instead! How have
we ravaged the garden instead of kept it--feeding our war-horses with its flowers, and splintering
its trees into spear-shafts!

"And at the East a flaming sword."[22]

Is its flame quenchless? and are those gates that keep the way indeed passable no more? or
is it not rather that we no more desire to enter? For what can we conceive of that first Eden
which we might not yet win back, if we chose? It was a place full of flowers, we say. Well:
the flowers are always striving to grow wherever we suffer them; and the fairer, the closer.
There may, indeed, have been a Fall of Flowers, as a Fall of Man; but assuredly creatures such
as we are can now fancy nothing lovelier than roses and lilies, which would grow for us side
by side, leaf overlapping leaf, till the Earth was white and red with them, if we cared to
have it so. And Paradise was full of pleasant shades and fruitful avenues. Well: what hinders
us from covering as much of the world as we like with pleasant shade, and pure blossom, and
goodly fruit? Who forbids its valleys to be covered over with corn till they laugh and sing?
Who prevents its dark forests, ghostly and uninhabitable, from being changed into infinite
orchards, wreathing the hills with frail-floreted snow, far away to the half-lighted horizon
of April, and flushing the face of all the autumnal earth with glow of clustered food? But
Paradise was a place of peace, we say, and all the animals were gentle servants to us. Well:
the world would yet be a place of peace if we were all peacemakers, and gentle service should
we have of its creatures if we gave them gentle mastery. But so long as we make sport of slaying
bird and beast, so long as we choose to contend rather with our fellows than with our faults,
and make battlefield of our meadows instead of pasture--so long, truly, the Flaming Sword will
still turn every way, and the gates of Eden remain barred close enough, till we have sheathed
the sharper flame of our own passions, and broken down the closer gates of our own hearts.

I have been led to see and feel this more and more, as I consider the service which the flowers
and trees, which man was at first appointed to keep, were intended to render to him in return
for his care; and the services they still render to him, as far as he allows their influence,
or fulfils his own task towards them. For what infinite wonderfulness there is in this vegetation,
considered, as indeed it is, as the means by which the earth becomes the companion of man--his
friend and his teacher! In the conditions which we have traced in its rocks, there could only
be seen preparation for his existence;--the characters which enable him to live on it safely,
and to work with it easily--in all these it has been inanimate and passive; but vegetation
is to it as an imperfect soul, given to meet the soul of man. The earth in its depths must
remain dead and cold, incapable except of slow crystalline change; but at its surface, which
human beings look upon and deal with, it ministers to them through a veil of strange intermediate
being: which breathes, but has no voice; moves, but cannot leave its appointed place; passes
through life without consciousness, to death without bitterness; wears the beauty of youth,
without its passion; and declines to the weakness of age, without its regret.

And in this mystery of intermediate being, entirely subordinate to us, with which we can deal
as we choose, having just the greater power as we have the less responsibility for our treatment
of the unsuffering creature, most of the pleasures which we need from the external world are
gathered, and most of the lessons we need are written, all kinds of precious grace and teaching
being united in this link between the Earth and Man; wonderful in universal adaptation to his
need, desire, and discipline; God's daily preparation of the earth for him, with beautiful
means of life. First, a carpet to make it soft for him; then, a coloured fantasy of embroidery
thereon; then, tall spreading of foliage to shade him from sun heat, and shade also the fallen
rain; that it may not dry quickly back into the clouds, but stay to nourish the springs among
the moss. Stout wood to bear this leafage: easily to be cut, yet tough and light, to make houses
for him, or instruments (lance-shaft, or plough-handle, according to his temper); useless,
it had been, if harder; useless, if less fibrous; useless, if less elastic. Winter comes, and
the shade of leafage falls away, to let the sun warm the earth; the strong boughs remain, breaking
the strength of winter winds. The seeds which are to prolong the race, innumerable according
to the need, are made beautiful and palatable, varied into infinitude of appeal to the fancy
of man, or provision for his service: cold juice, or glowing spice, or balm, or incense, softening
oil, preserving resin, medicine of styptic, febrifuge, or lulling charm: and all these presented
in forms of endless change. Fragility or force, softness and strength, in all degrees and aspects;
unerring uprightness, as of temple pillars, or unguided wandering of feeble tendrils on the
ground; mighty resistances of rigid arm and limb to the storms of ages, or wavings to and fro
with faintest pulse of summer streamlet. Roots cleaving the strength of rock, or binding the
transience of the sand; crests basking in sunshine of the desert, or hiding by dripping spring
and lightless cave; foliage far tossing in entangled fields beneath every wave of ocean--clothing,
with variegated, everlasting films, the peaks of the trackless mountains, or ministering at
cottage doors to every gentlest passion and simplest joy of humanity.

Being thus prepared for us in all ways, and made beautiful, and good for food, and for building,
and for instruments in our hands, this race of plants, deserving boundless affection and admiration
from us, becomes, in proportion to their obtaining it, a nearly perfect test of our being in
right temper of mind and way of life; so that no one can be far wrong in either who loves the
trees enough, and every one is assuredly wrong in both who does not love them, if his life
has brought them in his way. It is clearly possible to do without them, for the great companionship
of the sea and sky are all that sailors need; and many a noble heart has been taught the best
it had to learn between dark stone walls. Still if human life be cast among trees at all, the
love borne to them is a sure test of its purity. And it is a sorrowful proof of the mistaken
ways of the world that the "country," in the simple sense of a place of fields and trees, has
hitherto been the source of reproach to its inhabitants, and that the words "countryman, rustic,
clown, paysan, villager," still signify a rude and untaught person, as opposed to the words
"townsman" and "citizen". We accept this usage of words, or the evil which it signifies, somewhat
too quietly; as if it were quite necessary and natural that country-people should be rude,
and townspeople gentle. Whereas I believe that the result of each mode of life may, in some
stages of the world's progress, be the exact reverse; and that another use of words may be
forced upon us by a new aspect of facts, so that we may find ourselves saying: "Such and such
a person is very gentle and kind--he is quite rustic; and such and such another person is very
rude and ill-taught--he is quite urbane."

At all events, cities have hitherto gained the better part of their good report through our
evil ways of going on in the world generally; chiefly and eminently through our bad habit of
fighting with each other. No field, in the Middle Ages, being safe from devastation, and every
country lane yielding easier passage to the marauders, peacefully-minded men necessarily congregated
in cities, and walled themselves in, making as few cross-country roads as possible: while the
men who sowed and reaped the harvests of Europe were only the servants or slaves of the barons.
The disdain of all agricultural pursuits by the nobility, and of all plain facts by the monks,
kept educated Europe in a state of mind over which natural phenomena could have no power; body
and intellect being lost in the practice of war without purpose, and the meditation of words
without meaning. Men learned the dexterity with sword and syllogism, which they mistook for
education, within cloister and tilt-yard; and looked on all the broad space of the world of
God mainly as a place for exercise of horses, or for growth of food.

There is a beautiful type of this neglect of the perfectness of the Earth's beauty, by reason
of the passions of men, in that picture of Paul Uccello's of the battle of Sant' Egidio,[23]
in which the armies meet on a country road beside a hedge of wild roses; the tender red flowers
tossing above the helmets, and glowing beneath the lowered lances. For in like manner the whole
of Nature only shone hitherto for man between the tossing of helmet-crests; and sometimes I
cannot but think of the trees of the earth as capable of a kind of sorrow, in that imperfect
life of theirs, as they opened their innocent leaves in the warm springtime, in vain for men;
and all along the dells of England her beeches cast their dappled shade only where the outlaw
drew his bow, and the king rode his careless chase; and by the sweet French rivers their long
ranks of poplar waved in the twilight, only to show the flames of burning cities on the horizon,
through the tracery of their stems; amidst the fair defiles of the Apennines, the twisted olive-trunks
hid the ambushes of treachery; and on their valley meadows, day by day, the lilies which were
white at the dawn were washed with crimson at sunset.

And indeed I had once purposed, in this work, to show what kind of evidence existed respecting
the possible influence of country life on men; it seeming to me, then, likely that here and
there a reader would perceive this to be a grave question, more than most which we contend
about, political or social, and might care to follow it out with me earnestly.

The day will assuredly come when men will see that it is a grave question; at which period,
also, I doubt not, there will arise persons able to investigate it. For the present, the movements
of the world seem little likely to be influenced by botanical law; or by any other considerations
respecting trees, than the probable price of timber. I shall limit myself, therefore, to my
own simple woodman's work, and try to hew this book into its final shape, with the limited
and humble aim that I had in beginning it, namely, to prove how far the idle and peaceable
persons, who have hitherto cared about leaves and clouds, have rightly seen, or faithfully
reported of them.

  [22] Genesis ii, 15; iii 24.

  [23] "In our own National Gallery. It is quaint and imperfect, but
  of great interest." [Ruskin.] Paolo Uccello (c. 1397-1475), a
  Florentine painter of the Renaissance, the first of the naturalists.
  His real name was Paolo di Dono, but he was called Uccello from his
  fondness for birds.

THE MOUNTAIN GLORY

VOLUME IV, CHAPTER 20

I have dwelt, in the foregoing chapter, on the sadness of the hills with the greater insistence
that I feared my own excessive love for them might lead me into too favourable interpretation
of their influences over the human heart; or, at least, that the reader might accuse me of
fond prejudice, in the conclusions to which, finally, I desire to lead him concerning them.
For, to myself, mountains are the beginning and the end of all natural scenery; in them, and
in the forms of inferior landscape that lead to them, my affections are wholly bound up; and
though I can look with happy admiration at the lowland flowers, and woods, and open skies,
the happiness is tranquil and cold, like that of examining detached flowers in a conservatory,
or reading a pleasant book; and if the scenery be resolutely level, insisting upon the declaration
of its own flatness in all the detail of it, as in Holland, or Lincolnshire, or Central Lombardy,
it appears to me like a prison, and I cannot long endure it. But the slightest rise and fall
in the road,--a mossy bank at the side of a crag of chalk, with brambles at its brow, overhanging
it,--a ripple over three or four stones in the stream by the bridge,--above all, a wild bit
of ferny ground under a fir or two, looking as if, possibly, one might see a hill if one got
to the other side of the trees, will instantly give me intense delight, because the shadow,
or the hope, of the hills is in them.

And thus, although there are few districts of Northern Europe, however apparently dull or tame,
in which I cannot find pleasure, though the whole of Northern France (except Champagne), dull
as it seems to most travellers, is to me a perpetual Paradise; and, putting Lincolnshire, Leicestershire,
and one or two such other perfectly flat districts aside, there is not an English county which
I should not find entertainment in exploring the cross-roads of, foot by foot; yet all my best
enjoyment would be owing to the imagination of the hills, colouring, with their far-away memories,
every lowland stone and herb. The pleasant French coteau, green in the sunshine, delights me,
either by what real mountain character it has in itself (for in extent and succession of promontory
the flanks of the French valleys have quite the sublimity of true mountain distances), or by
its broken ground and rugged steps among the vines, and rise of the leafage above, against
the blue sky, as it might rise at Vevay or Como. There is not a wave of the Seine but is associated
in my mind with the first rise of the sandstones and forest pines of Fontaine-bleau; and with
the hope of the Alps, as one leaves Paris with the horses' heads to the south-west, the morning
sun flashing on the bright waves at Charenton. If there be no hope or association of this kind,
and if I cannot deceive myself into fancying that perhaps at the next rise of the road there
may be seen the film of a blue hill in the gleam of sky at the horizon, the landscape, however
beautiful, produces in me even a kind of sickness and pain; and the whole view from Richmond
Hill or Windsor Terrace,--nay, the gardens of Alcinous, with their perpetual summer,--or of
the Hesperides (if they were flat, and not close to Atlas), golden apples and all,--I would
give away in an instant, for one mossy granite stone a foot broad, and two leaves of lady-fern.[24]

I know that this is in great part idiosyncrasy; and that I must not trust to my own feelings,
in this respect, as representative of the modern landscape instinct: yet I know it is not idiosyncrasy,
in so far as there may be proved to be indeed an increase of the absolute beauty of all scenery
in exact proportion to its mountainous character, providing that character be healthily mountainous.
I do not mean to take the Col de Bonhomme as representative of hills, any more than I would
take Romney Marsh as representative of plains; but putting Leicestershire or Staffordshire
fairly beside Westmoreland, and Lombardy or Champagne fairly beside the Pays de Vaud or the
Canton Berne, I find the increase in the calculable sum of elements of beauty to be steadily
in proportion to the increase of mountainous character; and that the best image which the world
can give of Paradise is in the slope of the meadows, orchards, and corn-fields on the sides
of a great Alp, with its purple rocks and eternal snows above; this excellence not being in
any wise a matter referable to feeling, or individual preferences, but demonstrable by calm
enumeration of the number of lovely colours on the rocks, the varied grouping of the trees,
and quantity of noble incidents in stream, crag, or cloud, presented to the eye at any given
moment.

For consider, first, the difference produced in the whole tone of landscape colour by the introductions
of purple, violet, and deep ultramarine blue, which we owe to mountains. In an ordinary lowland
landscape we have the blue of the sky; the green of grass, which I will suppose (and this is
an unnecessary concession to the lowlands) entirely fresh and bright; the green of trees; and
certain elements of purple, far more rich and beautiful than we generally should think, in
their bark and shadows (bare hedges and thickets, or tops of trees, in subdued afternoon sunshine,
are nearly perfect purple, and of an exquisite tone), as well as in ploughed fields, and dark
ground in general. But among mountains, in addition to all this, large unbroken spaces of pure
violet and purple are introduced in their distances; and even near, by films of cloud passing
over the darkness of ravines or forests, blues are produced of the most subtle tenderness;
these azures and purples[25] passing into rose-colour of otherwise wholly unattainable delicacy
among the upper summits, the blue of the sky being at the same time purer and deeper than in
the plains. Nay, in some sense, a person who has never seen the rose-colour of the rays of
dawn crossing a blue mountain twelve or fifteen miles away, can hardly be said to know what
tenderness in colour means at all; bright tenderness he may, indeed, see in the sky or in a
flower, but this grave tenderness of the far-away hill-purples he cannot conceive.

Together with this great source of pre-eminence in mass of colour, we have to estimate the
influence of the finished inlaying and enamel-work of the colour-jewellery on every stone;
and that of the continual variety in species of flower; most of the mountain flowers being,
besides, separately lovelier than the lowland ones. The wood hyacinth and wild rose are, indeed,
the only supreme flowers that the lowlands can generally show; and the wild rose is also a
mountaineer, and more fragrant in the hills, while the wood hyacinth, or grape hyacinth, at
its best cannot match even the dark bell-gentian, leaving the light-blue star-gentian in its
uncontested queenliness, and the Alpine rose and Highland heather wholly without similitude.
The violet, lily of the valley, crocus, and wood anemone are, I suppose, claimable partly by
the plains as well as the hills; but the large orange lily and narcissus I have never seen
but on hill pastures, and the exquisite oxalisis pre-eminently a mountaineer.[26]

To this supremacy in mosses and flowers we have next to add an inestimable gain in the continual
presence and power of water. Neither in its clearness, its colour, its fantasy of motion, its
calmness of space, depth, and reflection, or its wrath, can water be conceived by a lowlander,
out of sight of sea. A sea wave is far grander than any torrent--but of the sea and its influences
we are not now speaking; and the sea itself, though it can be clear, is never calm, among our
shores, in the sense that a mountain lake can be calm. The sea seems only to pause; the mountain
lake to sleep, and to dream. Out of sight of the ocean a lowlander cannot be considered ever
to have seen water at all. The mantling of the pools in the rock shadows, with the golden flakes
of light sinking down through them like falling leaves, the ringing of the thin currents among
the shallows, the flash and the cloud of the cascade, the earthquake and foam-fire of the cataract,
the long lines of alternate mirror and mist that lull the imagery of the hills reversed in
the blue of morning,--all these things belong to those hills as their undivided inheritance.

To this supremacy in wave and stream is joined a no less manifest pre-eminence in the character
of trees. It is possible among plains, in the species of trees which properly belong to them,
the poplars of Amiens, for instance, to obtain a serene simplicity of grace, which, as I said,
is a better help to the study of gracefulness, as such, than any of the wilder groupings of
the hills; so, also, there are certain conditions of symmetrical luxuriance developed in the
park and avenue, rarely rivalled in their way among mountains; and yet the mountain superiority
in foliage is, on the whole, nearly as complete as it is in water: for exactly as there are
some expressions in the broad reaches of a navigable lowland river, such as the Loire or Thames,
not, in their way, to be matched among the rock rivers, and yet for all that a lowlander cannot
be said to have truly seen the element of water at all; so even in the richest parks and avenues
he cannot be said to have truly seen trees. For the resources of trees are not developed until
they have difficulty to contend with; neither their tenderness of brotherly love and harmony,
till they are forced to choose their ways of various life where there is contracted room for
them, talking to each other with their restrained branches. The various action of trees rooting
themselves in inhospitable rocks, stooping to look into ravines, hiding from the search of
glacier winds, reaching forth to the rays of rare sunshine, crowding down together to drink
at sweetest streams, climbing hand in hand among the difficult slopes, opening in sudden dances
round the mossy knolls, gathering into companies at rest among the fragrant fields, gliding
in grave procession over the heavenward ridges--nothing of this can be conceived among the
unvexed and unvaried felicities of the lowland forest: while to all these direct sources of
greater beauty are added, first the power of redundance,--the mere quantity of foliage visible
in the folds and on the promontories of a single Alp being greater than that of an entire lowland
landscape (unless a view from some cathedral tower); and to this charm of redundance, that
of clearer visibility,--tree after tree being constantly shown in successive height, one behind
another, instead of the mere tops and flanks of masses, as in the plains; and the forms of
multitudes of them continually defined against the clear sky, near and above, or against white
clouds entangled among their branches, instead of being confused in dimness of distance.

Finally, to this supremacy in foliage we have to add the still less questionable supremacy
in clouds. There is no effect of sky possible in the lowlands which may not in equal perfection
be seen among the hills; but there are effects by tens of thousands, for ever invisible and
inconceivable to the inhabitant of the plains, manifested among the hills in the course of
one day. The mere power of familiarity with the clouds, of walking with them and above them,
alters and renders clear our whole conception of the baseless architecture of the sky; and
for the beauty of it, there is more in a single wreath of early cloud, pacing its way up an
avenue of pines, or pausing among the points of their fringes, than in all the white heaps
that fill the arched sky of the plains from one horizon to the other. And of the nobler cloud
manifestations,--the breaking of their troublous seas against the crags, their black spray
sparkling with lightning; or the going forth of the morning[27] along their pavements of moving
marble, level-laid between dome and dome of snow;--of these things there can be as little imagination
or understanding in an inhabitant of the plains as of the scenery of another planet than his own.

And, observe, all these superiorities are matters plainly measurable and calculable, not in
any wise to be referred to estimate of sensation. Of the grandeur or expression of the hills
I have not spoken; how far they are great, or strong, or terrible, I do not for the moment
consider, because vastness, and strength, and terror, are not to all minds subjects of desired
contemplation. It may make no difference to some men whether a natural object be large or small,
whether it be strong or feeble. But loveliness of colour, perfectness of form, endlessness
of change, wonderfulness of structure, are precious to all undiseased human minds; and the
superiority of the mountains in all these things to the lowland is, I repeat, as measurable
as the richness of a painted window matched with a white one, or the wealth of a museum compared
with that of a simply furnished chamber. They seem to have been built for the human race, as
at once their schools and cathedrals; full of treasures of illuminated manuscript for the scholar,
kindly in simple lessons to the worker, quiet in pale cloisters for the thinker, glorious in
holiness for the worshipper. And of these great cathedrals of the earth, with their gates of
rock, pavements of cloud, choirs of stream and stone, altars of snow, and vaults of purple
traversed by the continual stars,--of these, as we have seen,[28] it was written, nor long
ago, by one of the best of the poor human race for whom they were built, wondering in himself
for whom their Creator could have made them, and thinking to have entirely discerned the Divine
intent in them--"They are inhabited by the Beasts."[29]

Was it then indeed thus with us, and so lately? Had mankind offered no worship in their mountain
churches? Was all that granite sculpture and floral painting done by the angels in vain?

Not so. It will need no prolonged thought to convince us that in the hills the purposes of
their Maker have indeed been accomplished in such measure as, through the sin or folly of men,
He ever permits them to be accomplished. It may not seem, from the general language held concerning
them, or from any directly traceable results, that mountains have had serious influence on
human intellect; but it will not, I think, be difficult to show that their occult influence
has been both constant and essential to the progress of the race.

  [24] In tracing the whole of the deep enjoyment to mountain
  association, I of course except whatever feelings are connected with
  the observance of rural life, or with that of architecture. None of
  these feelings arise out of the landscape properly so called: the
  pleasure with which we see a peasant's garden fairly kept, or a
  ploughman doing his work well, or a group of children playing at a
  cottage door, being wholly separate from that which we find in the
  fields or commons around them; and the beauty of architecture, or the
  associations connected with it, in like manner often ennobling the
  most tame scenery;--yet not so but that we may always distinguish
  between the abstract character of the unassisted landscape, and the
  charm which it derives from the architecture. Much of the majesty of
  French landscape consists in its grand and grey village churches and
  turreted farmhouses, not to speak of its cathedrals, castles, and
  beautifully placed cities. [Ruskin.]

  [25] One of the principal reasons for the false supposition that
  Switzerland is not picturesque, is the error of most sketchers and
  painters in representing pine forest in middle distance as dark green,
  or grey green, whereas its true colour is always purple, at distances
  of even two or three miles. Let any traveller coming down the
  Montanvert look for an aperture, three or four inches wide, between
  the near pine branches, through which, standing eight or ten feet
  from it, he can see the opposite forests on the Breven or Flegère.
  Those forests are not above two or two and a half miles from him;
  but he will find the aperture is filled by a tint of nearly pure
  azure or purple, not by green. [Ruskin.]

  [26] The Savoyard's name for its flower, "Pain du Bon Dieu," is very
  beautiful; from, I believe, the supposed resemblance of its white
  and scattered blossom to the fallen manna, [Ruskin.]

  [27] Ezekiel vii, 10; Hosea vi, 3.

  [28] In "The Mountain Gloom," the chapter immediately preceding.

  [29] Ruskin refers to The Fulfilling of the Scripture, a book by
  Robert Fleming [1630-94].

SUNRISE ON THE ALPS[30]

VOLUME I, SECTION 3, PART 2, CHAPTER 4

Stand upon the peak of some isolated mountain at daybreak, when the night mists first rise
from off the plains, and watch their white and lake-like fields, as they float in level bays
and winding gulfs about the islanded summits of the lower hills, untouched yet by more than
dawn, colder and more quiet than a windless sea under the moon of midnight; watch when the
first sunbeam is sent upon the silver channels, how the foam of their undulating surface parts
and passes away, and down under their depths the glittering city and green pasture lie like
Atlantis,[31] between the white paths of winding rivers; the flakes of light falling every
moment faster and broader among the starry spires, as the wreathed surges break and vanish
above them, and the confused crests and ridges of the dark hills shorten their grey shadows
upon the plain.... Wait a little longer, and you shall see those scattered mists rallying in
the ravines, and floating up towards you, along the winding valleys, till they crouch in quiet
masses, iridescent with the morning light,[32] upon the broad breasts of the higher hills,
whose leagues of massy undulation will melt back and back into that robe of material light,
until they fade away, lost in its lustre, to appear again above, in the serene heaven, like
a wild, bright, impossible dream, foundationless and inaccessible, their very bases vanishing
in the unsubstantial and mocking blue of the deep lake below.[33]... Wait yet a little longer,
and you shall see those mists gather themselves into white towers, and stand like fortresses
along the promontories, massy and motionless, only piled with every instant higher and higher
into the sky, and casting longer shadows athwart the rocks; and out of the pale blue of the
horizon you will see forming and advancing a troop of narrow, dark, pointed vapours, which
will cover the sky, inch by inch, with their grey network, and take the light off the landscape
with an eclipse which will stop the singing of the birds and the motion of the leaves, together;
and then you will see horizontal bars of black shadow forming under them, and lurid wreaths
create themselves, you know not how, along the shoulders of the hills; you never see them form,
but when you look back to a place which was clear an instant ago, there is a cloud on it, hanging
by the precipices, as a hawk pauses over his prey.... And then you will hear the sudden rush
of the awakened wind, and you will see those watch-towers of vapour swept away from their foundations,
and waving curtains of opaque rain let down to the valleys, swinging from the burdened clouds
in black bending fringes, or pacing in pale columns along the lake level, grazing its surface
into foam as they go. And then, as the sun sinks, you shall see the storm drift for an instant,
from off the hills, leaving their broad sides smoking, and loaded yet with snow-white, torn,
steam-like rags of capricious vapour, now gone, now gathered again; while the smouldering sun,
seeming not far away, but burning like a red-hot ball beside you, and as if you could reach
it, plunges through the rushing wind and rolling cloud with headlong fall, as if it meant to
rise no more, dyeing all the air about it with blood.... And then you shall hear the fainting
tempest die in the hollow of the night, and you shall see a green halo kindling on the summit
of the eastern hills, brighter--brighter yet, till the large white circle of the slow moon
is lifted up among the barred clouds, step by step, line by line; star after star she quenches
with her kindling light, setting in their stead an army of pale, penetrable, fleecy wreaths
in the heaven, to give light upon the earth, which move together, hand in hand, company by
company, troop by troop, so measured in their unity of motion, that the whole heaven seems
to roll with them, and the earth to reel under them.... And then wait yet for one hour, until
the east again becomes purple, and the heaving mountains, rolling against it in darkness, like
waves of a wild sea, are drowned one by one in the glory of its burning: watch the white glaciers
blaze in their winding paths about the mountains, like mighty serpents with scales of fire:
watch the columnar peaks of solitary snow, kindling downwards, chasm by chasm, each in itself
a new morning; their long avalanches cast down in keen streams brighter than the lightning,
sending each his tribute of driven snow, like altar-smoke, up to the heaven; the rose-light
of their silent domes flushing that heaven about them and above them, piercing with purer light
through its purple lines of lifted cloud, casting a new glory on every wreath as it passes
by, until the whole heaven, one scarlet canopy, is interwoven with a roof of waving flame,
and tossing, vault beyond vault, as with the drifted wings of many companies of angels: and
then, when you can look no more for gladness, and when you are bowed down with fear and love
of the Maker and Doer of this, tell me who has best delivered this His message unto men![34]

  [30] Some sentences of an argumentative nature have been omitted from
  this selection.

  [31] A mythical island in the Atlantic.

  [32] I have often seen the white, thin, morning cloud, edged with
  the seven colours of the prism. I am not aware of the cause of this
  phenomenon, for it takes place not when we stand with our backs to
  the sun, but in clouds near the sun itself, irregularly and over
  indefinite spaces, sometimes taking place in the body of the cloud.
  The colours are distinct and vivid, but have a kind of metallic
   lustre upon them. [Ruskin.]

  [33] Lake Lucerne. [Ruskin.]

  [34] The implication is that Turner has best delivered it.

THE GRAND STYLE[35]

VOLUME III, CHAPTER I

In taking up the clue of an inquiry, now intermitted for nearly ten years, it may be well to
do as a traveller would, who had to recommence an interrupted journey in a guideless country;
and, ascending, as it were, some little hill beside our road, note how far we have already
advanced, and what pleasantest ways we may choose for farther progress.

I endeavoured, in the beginning of the first volume, to divide the sources of pleasure open
to us in Art into certain groups, which might conveniently be studied in succession. After
some preliminary discussion, it was concluded that these groups were, in the main, three; consisting,
first, of the pleasures taken in perceiving simple resemblance to Nature (Ideas of Truth);
secondly, of the pleasures taken in the beauty of the things chosen to be painted (Ideas of
Beauty); and, lastly, of pleasures taken in the meanings and relations of these things (Ideas
of Relation).

The first volume, treating of the ideas of Truth, was chiefly occupied with an inquiry into
the various success with which different artists had represented the facts of Nature,--an inquiry
necessarily conducted very imperfectly, owing to the want of pictorial illustration.

The second volume merely opened the inquiry into the nature of ideas of Beauty and Relation,
by analysing (as far as I was able to do so) the two faculties of the human mind which mainly
seized such ideas; namely, the contemplative and imaginative faculties.

It remains for us to examine the various success of artists, especially of the great landscape-painter
whose works have been throughout our principal subject, in addressing these faculties of the
human mind, and to consider who among them has conveyed the noblest ideas of beauty, and touched
the deepest sources of thought.

I do not intend, however, now to pursue the inquiry in a method so laboriously systematic;
for the subject may, it seems to me, be more usefully treated by pursuing the different questions
which rise out of it just as they occur to us, without too great scrupulousness in marking
connections, or insisting on sequences. Much time is wasted by human beings, in general, on
establishment of systems; and it often takes more labour to master the intricacies of an artificial
connection, than to remember the separate facts which are so carefully connected. I suspect
that system-makers, in general, are not of much more use, each in his own domain, than, in
that of Pomona, the old women who tie cherries upon sticks, for the more convenient portableness
of the same. To cultivate well, and choose well, your cherries, is of some importance; but
if they can be had in their own wild way of clustering about their crabbed stalk, it is a better
connection for them than any other; and, if they cannot, then, so that they be not bruised,
it makes to a boy of a practical disposition not much difference whether he gets them by handfuls,
or in beaded symmetry on the exalting stick. I purpose, therefore, henceforward to trouble
myself little with sticks or twine, but to arrange my chapters with a view to convenient reference,
rather than to any careful division of subjects, and to follow out, in any by-ways that may
open, on right hand or left, whatever question it seems useful at any moment to settle.

And, in the outset, I find myself met by one which I ought to have touched upon before--one
of especial interest in the present state of the Arts. I have said that the art is greatest
which includes the greatest ideas; but I have not endeavoured to define the nature of this
greatness in the ideas themselves. We speak of great truths, of great beauties, great thoughts.
What is it which makes one truth greater than another, one thought greater than another? This
question is, I repeat, of peculiar importance at the present time; for, during a period now
of some hundred and fifty years, all writers on Art who have pretended to eminence, have insisted
much on a supposed distinction between what they call the Great and the Low Schools; using
the terms "High Art," "Great or Ideal Style," and other such, as descriptive of a certain noble
manner of painting, which it was desirable that all students of Art should be early led to
reverence and adopt; and characterizing as "vulgar," or "low," or "realist," another manner
of painting and conceiving, which it was equally necessary that all students should be taught
to avoid.

But lately this established teaching, never very intelligible, has been gravely called in question.
The advocates and self-supposed practisers of "High Art" are beginning to be looked upon with
doubt, and their peculiar phraseology to be treated with even a certain degree of ridicule.
And other forms of Art are partly developed among us, which do not pretend to be high, but
rather to be strong, healthy, and humble. This matter of "highness" in Art, therefore, deserves
our most careful consideration. Has it been, or is it, a true highness, a true princeliness,
or only a show of it, consisting in courtly manners and robes of state? Is it rocky height
or cloudy height, adamant or vapour, on which the sun of praise so long has risen and set?
It will be well at once to consider this.

And first, let us get, as quickly as may be, at the exact meaning with which the advocates
of "High Art" use that somewhat obscure and figurative term.

I do not know that the principles in question are anywhere more distinctly expressed than in
two papers in the Idler, written by Sir Joshua Reynolds, of course under the immediate sanction
of Johnson; and which may thus be considered as the utterance of the views then held upon the
subject by the artists of chief skill, and critics of most sense, arranged in a form so brief
and clear as to admit of their being brought before the public for a morning's entertainment.
I cannot, therefore, it seems to me, do better than quote these two letters, or at least the
important parts of them, examining the exact meaning of each passage as it occurs. There are,
in all, in the Idler three letters on painting, Nos. 76, 79, and 82; of these, the first is
directed only against the impertinences of pretended connoisseurs, and is as notable for its
faithfulness as for its wit in the description of the several modes of criticism in an artificial
and ignorant state of society: it is only, therefore, in the two last papers that we find the
expression of the doctrines which it is our business to examine.

No. 79 (Saturday, October 20, 1759) begins, after a short preamble, with the following passage:--

"Amongst the Painters, and the writers on Painting, there is one maxim universally admitted
and continually inculcated. Imitate nature is the invariable rule; but I know none who have
explained in what manner this rule is to be understood; the consequence of which is, that everyone
takes it in the most obvious sense--that objects are represented naturally, when they have
such relief that they seem real. It may appear strange, perhaps, to hear this sense of the
rule disputed; but it must be considered, that, if the excellency of a Painter consisted only
in this kind of imitation, Painting must lose its rank, and be no longer considered as a liberal
art, and sister to Poetry: this imitation being merely mechanical, in which the slowest intellect
is always sure to succeed best; for the Painter of genius cannot stoop to drudgery, in which
the understanding has no part; and what pretence has the Art to claim kindred with Poetry but
by its power over the imagination? To this power the Painter of genius directs him; in this
sense he studies Nature, and often arrives at his end, even by being unnatural in the confined
sense of the word.

"The grand style of Painting requires this minute attention to be carefully avoided, and must
be kept as separate from it as the style of Poetry from that of History. (Poetical ornaments
destroy that air of truth and plainness which ought to characterize History; but the very being
of Poetry consists in departing from this plain narrative, and adopting every ornament that
will warm the imagination.)[36] To desire to see the excellences of each style united--to mingle
the Dutch with the Italian school, is to join contrarieties which cannot subsist together,
and which destroy the efficacy of each other."

We find, first, from this interesting passage, that the writer considers the Dutch and Italian
masters as severally representative of the low and high schools; next, that he considers the
Dutch painters as excelling in a mechanical imitation, "in which the slowest intellect is always
sure to succeed best"; and, thirdly, that he considers the Italian painters as excelling in
a style which corresponds to that of imaginative poetry in literature, and which has an exclusive
right to be called the grand style.

I wish that it were in my power entirely to concur with the writer, and to enforce this opinion
thus distinctly stated. I have never been a zealous partisan of the Dutch School, and should
rejoice in claiming Reynolds's authority for the assertion, that their manner was one "in which
the slowest intellect is always sure to succeed best." But before his authority can be so claimed,
we must observe exactly the meaning of the assertion itself, and separate it from the company
of some others not perhaps so admissible. First, I say, we must observe Reynolds's exact meaning,
for (though the assertion may at first appear singular) a man who uses accurate language is
always more liable to misinterpretation than one who is careless in his expressions. We may
assume that the latter means very nearly what we at first suppose him to mean, for words which
have been uttered without thought may be received without examination. But when a writer or
speaker may be fairly supposed to have considered his expressions carefully, and, after having
revolved a number of terms in his mind, to have chosen the one which exactly means the thing
he intends to say, we may be assured that what costs him time to select, will require from
us time to understand, and that we shall do him wrong, unless we pause to reflect how the word
which he has actually employed differs from other words which it seems he might have employed.
It thus constantly happens that persons themselves unaccustomed to think clearly, or speak
correctly, misunderstand a logical and careful writer, and are actually in more danger of being
misled by language which is measured and precise, than by that which is loose and inaccurate.

Now, in the instance before us, a person not accustomed to good writing might very rashly conclude
that when Reynolds spoke of the Dutch School as one "in which the slowest intellect was sure
to succeed best," he meant to say that every successful Dutch painter was a fool. We have no
right to take his assertion in that sense. He says, the slowest intellect. We have no right
to assume that he meant the weakest. For it is true, that in order to succeed in the Dutch
style, a man has need of qualities of mind eminently deliberate and sustained. He must be possessed
of patience rather than of power; and must feel no weariness in contemplating the expression
of a single thought for several months together. As opposed to the changeful energies of the
imagination, these mental characters may be properly spoken of as under the general term--slowness
of intellect. But it by no means follows that they are necessarily those of weak or foolish men.

We observe, however, farther, that the imitation which Reynolds supposes to be characteristic
of the Dutch School is that which gives to objects such relief that they seem real, and that
he then speaks of this art of realistic imitation as corresponding to history in literature.

Reynolds, therefore, seems to class these dull works of the Dutch School under a general head,
to which they are not commonly referred--that of historical painting; while he speaks of the
works of the Italian School not as historical, but as poetical painting. His next sentence
will farther manifest his meaning.

"The Italian attends only to the invariable, the great and general ideas which are fixed and
inherent in universal Nature; the Dutch, on the contrary, to literal truth and a minute exactness
in the detail, as I may say, of Nature modified by accident. The attention to these petty peculiarities
is the very cause of this naturalness so much admired in the Dutch pictures, which, if we suppose
it to be a beauty, is certainly of a lower order, which ought to give place to a beauty of
a superior kind, since one cannot be obtained but by departing from the other.

"If my opinion was asked concerning the works of Michael Angelo, whether they would receive
any advantage from possessing this mechanical merit, I should not scruple to say, they would
not only receive no advantage, but would lose, in a great measure, the effect which they now
have on every mind susceptible of great and noble ideas. His works may be said to be all genius
and soul; and why should they be loaded with heavy matter, which can only counteract his purpose
by retarding the progress of the imagination?"

Examining carefully this and the preceding passage, we find the author's unmistakable meaning
to be, that Dutch painting is history; attending to literal truth and "minute exactness in
the details of nature modified by accident." That Italian painting is poetry, attending only
to the invariable; and that works which attend only to the invariable are full of genius and
soul; but that literal truth and exact detail are "heavy matter which retards the progress
of the imagination."

This being then indisputably what Reynolds means to tell us, let us think a little whether
he is in all respects right. And first, as he compares his two kinds of painting to history
and poetry, let us see how poetry and history themselves differ, in their use of variable and
invariable details. I am writing at a window which commands a view of the head of the Lake
of Geneva; and as I look up from my paper, to consider this point, I see, beyond it, a blue
breadth of softly moving water, and the outline of the mountains above Chillon, bathed in morning
mist. The first verses which naturally come into my mind are--

    A thousand feet in depth below
    The massy waters meet and flow;
    So far the fathom line was sent
    From Chillon's snow-white battlement.[37]

Let us see in what manner this poetical statement is distinguished from a historical one.

It is distinguished from a truly historical statement, first, in being simply false. The water
under the Castle of Chillon is not a thousand feet deep, nor anything like it.[38] Herein,
certainly, these lines fulfil Reynolds's first requirement in poetry, "that it should be inattentive
to literal truth and minute exactness in detail." In order, however, to make our comparison
more closely in other points, let us assume that what is stated is indeed a fact, and that
it was to be recorded, first historically, and then poetically.

Historically stating it, then, we should say: "The lake was sounded from the walls of the Castle
of Chillon, and found to be a thousand feet deep."

Now, if Reynolds be right in his idea of the difference between history and poetry, we shall
find that Byron leaves out of this statement certain unnecessary details, and retains only
the invariable,--that is to say, the points which the Lake of Geneva and Castle of Chillon
have in common with all other lakes and castles.

Let us hear, therefore.

    A thousand feet in depth below.

"Below"? Here is, at all events, a word added (instead of anything being taken away); invariable,
certainly in the case of lakes, but not absolutely necessary.

    The massy waters meet and flow.

"Massy"! why massy? Because deep water is heavy. The word is a good word, but it is assuredly
an added detail, and expresses a character, not which the Lake of Geneva has in common with
all other lakes, but which it has in distinction from those which are narrow, or shallow.

"Meet and flow." Why meet and flow? Partly to make up a rhyme; partly to tell us that the waters
are forceful as well as massy, and changeful as well as deep. Observe, a farther addition of
details, and of details more or less peculiar to the spot, or, according to Reynolds's definition,
of "heavy matter, retarding the progress of the imagination."

    So far the fathom line was sent.

Why fathom line? All lines for sounding are not fathom lines. If the lake was ever sounded
from Chillon, it was probably sounded in mètres, not fathoms. This is an addition of another
particular detail, in which the only compliance with Reynolds's requirement is, that there
is some chance of its being an inaccurate one.

    From Chillon's snow-white battlement.

Why snow-white? Because castle battlements are not usually snow-white. This is another added
detail, and a detail quite peculiar to Chillon, and therefore exactly the most striking word
in the whole passage.

"Battlement"! Why battlement? Because all walls have not battlements, and the addition of the
term marks the castle to be not merely a prison, but a fortress.

This is a curious result. Instead of finding, as we expected, the poetry distinguished from
the history by the omission of details, we find it consist entirely in the addition of details;
and instead of being characterized by regard only of the invariable, we find its whole power
to consist in the clear expression of what is singular and particular!

The reader may pursue the investigation for himself in other instances. He will find in every
case that a poetical is distinguished from a merely historical statement, not by being more
vague, but more specific; and it might, therefore, at first appear that our author's comparison
should be simply reversed, and that the Dutch School should be called poetical, and the Italian
historical. But the term poetical does not appear very applicable to the generality of Dutch
painting; and a little reflection will show us, that if the Italians represent only the invariable,
they cannot be properly compared even to historians. For that which is incapable of change
has no history, and records which state only the invariable need not be written, and could
not be read.

It is evident, therefore, that our author has entangled himself in some grave fallacy, by introducing
this idea of invariableness as forming a distinction between poetical and historical art. What
the fallacy is, we shall discover as we proceed; but as an invading army should not leave an
untaken fortress in its rear, we must not go on with our inquiry into the views of Reynolds
until we have settled satisfactorily the question already suggested to us, in what the essence
of poetical treatment really consists. For though, as we have seen, it certainly involves the
addition of specific details, it cannot be simply that addition which turns the history into
poetry. For it is perfectly possible to add any number of details to a historical statement,
and to make it more prosaic with every added word. As, for instance, "The lake was sounded
out of a flat-bottomed boat, near the crab-tree at the corner of the kitchen-garden, and was
found to be a thousand feet nine inches deep, with a muddy bottom." It thus appears that it
is not the multiplication of details which constitutes poetry; nor their subtraction which
constitutes history, but that there must be something either in the nature of the details themselves,
or the method of using them, which invests them with poetical power or historical propriety.

It seems to me, and may seem to the reader, strange that we should need to ask the question,
"What is poetry?" Here is a word we have been using all our lives, and, I suppose, with a very
distinct idea attached to it; and when I am now called upon to give a definition of this idea,
I find myself at a pause. What is more singular, I do not at present recollect hearing the
question often asked, though surely it is a very natural one; and I never recollect hearing
it answered, or even attempted to be answered. In general, people shelter themselves under
metaphors, and while we hear poetry described as an utterance of the soul, an effusion of Divinity,
or voice of nature, or in other terms equally elevated and obscure, we never attain anything
like a definite explanation of the character which actually distinguishes it from prose.

I come, after some embarrassment, to the conclusion, that poetry is "the suggestion, by the
imagination, of noble grounds for the noble emotions."[39] I mean, by the noble emotions, those
four principal sacred passions--Love, Veneration, Admiration, and Joy (this latter especially,
if unselfish); and their opposites--Hatred, Indignation (or Scorn), Horror, and Grief,--this
last, when unselfish, becoming Compassion. These passions in their various combinations constitute
what is called "poetical feeling," when they are felt on noble grounds, that is, on great and
true grounds. Indignation, for instance, is a poetical feeling, if excited by serious injury;
but it is not a poetical feeling if entertained on being cheated out of a small sum of money.
It is very possible the manner of the cheat may have been such as to justify considerable indignation;
but the feeling is nevertheless not poetical unless the grounds of it be large as well as just.
In like manner, energetic admiration may be excited in certain minds by a display of fireworks,
or a street of handsome shops; but the feeling is not poetical, because the grounds of it are
false, and therefore ignoble. There is in reality nothing to deserve admiration either in the
firing of packets of gunpowder, or in the display of the stocks of warehouses. But admiration
excited by the budding of a flower is a poetical feeling, because it is impossible that this
manifestation of spiritual power and vital beauty can ever be enough admired.

Farther, it is necessary to the existence of poetry that the grounds of these feelings should
be furnished by the imagination. Poetical feeling, that is to say, mere noble emotion, is not
poetry. It is happily inherent in all human nature deserving the name, and is found often to
be purest in the least sophisticated. But the power of assembling, by the help of the imagination,
such images as will excite these feelings, is the power of the poet or literally of the "Maker."[40]

Now this power of exciting the emotions depends of course on the richness of the imagination,
and on its choice of those images which, in combination, will be most effective, or, for the
particular work to be done, most fit. And it is altogether impossible for a writer not endowed
with invention to conceive what tools a true poet will make use of, or in what way he will
apply them, or what unexpected results he will bring out by them; so that it is vain to say
that the details of poetry ought to possess, or ever do possess, any definite character. Generally
speaking, poetry runs into finer and more delicate details than prose; but the details are
not poetical because they are more delicate, but because they are employed so as to bring out
an affecting result. For instance, no one but a true poet would have thought of exciting our
pity for a bereaved father by describing his way of locking the door of his house:

    Perhaps to himself at that moment he said,
    The key I must take, for my Ellen is dead;
    But of this in my ears not a word did he speak;
    And he went to the chase with a tear on his cheek.[41]

In like manner, in painting, it is altogether impossible to say beforehand what details a great
painter may make poetical by his use of them to excite noble emotions: and we shall, therefore,
find presently that a painting is to be classed in the great or inferior schools, not according
to the kind of details which it represents, but according to the uses for which it employs them.

It is only farther to be noticed, that infinite confusion has been introduced into this subject
by the careless and illogical custom of opposing painting to poetry, instead of regarding poetry
as consisting in a noble use, whether of colours or words. Painting is properly to be opposed
to speaking or writing, but not to poetry. Both painting and speaking are methods of expression.
Poetry is the employment of either for the noblest purposes.

This question being thus far determined, we may proceed with our paper in the Idler.

"It is very difficult to determine the exact degree of enthusiasm that the arts of Painting
and Poetry may admit. There may, perhaps, be too great indulgence as well as too great a restraint
of imagination; if the one produces incoherent monsters, the other produces what is full as
bad, lifeless insipidity. An intimate knowledge of the passions, and good sense, but not common
sense, must at last determine its limits. It has been thought, and I believe with reason, that
Michael Angelo sometimes transgressed those limits; and, I think, I have seen figures of him
of which it was very difficult to determine whether they were in the highest degree sublime
or extremely ridiculous. Such faults may be said to be the ebullitions of genius; but at least
he had this merit, that he never was insipid; and whatever passion his works may excite, they
will always escape contempt.

"What I have had under consideration is the sublimest style, particularly that of Michael Angelo,
the Homer of painting. Other kinds may admit of this naturalness, which of the lowest kind
is the chief merit; but in painting, as in poetry, the highest style has the least of common
nature."

From this passage we gather three important indications of the supposed nature of the Great
Style. That it is the work of men in a state of enthusiasm. That it is like the writing of
Homer; and that it has as little as possible of "common nature" in it.

First, it is produced by men in a state of enthusiasm. That is, by men who feel strongly and
nobly; for we do not call a strong feeling of envy, jealousy, or ambition, enthusiasm. That
is, therefore, by men who feel poetically. This much we may admit, I think, with perfect safety.
Great art is produced by men who feel acutely and nobly; and it is in some sort an expression
of this personal feeling. We can easily conceive that there may be a sufficiently marked distinction
between such art, and that which is produced by men who do not feel at all, but who reproduce,
though ever so accurately, yet coldly, like human mirrors, the scenes which pass before their eyes.

Secondly, Great Art is like the writing of Homer, and this chiefly because it has little of
"common nature" in it. We are not clearly informed what is meant by common nature in this passage.
Homer seems to describe a great deal of what is common:--cookery, for instance, very carefully
in all its processes.[42] I suppose the passage in the Iliad which, on the whole, has excited
most admiration, is that which describes a wife's sorrow at parting from her husband, and a
child's fright at its father's helmet;[43] and I hope, at least, the former feeling may be
considered "common nature." But the true greatness of Homer's style is, doubtless, held by
our author to consist in his imaginations of things not only uncommon but impossible (such
as spirits in brazen armour, or monsters with heads of men and bodies of beasts), and in his
occasional delineations of the human character and form in their utmost, or heroic, strength
and beauty. We gather then on the whole, that a painter in the Great Style must be enthusiastic,
or full of emotion, and must paint the human form in its utmost strength and beauty, and perhaps
certain impossible forms besides, liable by persons not in an equally enthusiastic state of
mind to be looked upon as in some degree absurd. This I presume to be Reynolds's meaning, and
to be all that he intends us to gather from his comparison of the Great Style with the writings
of Homer. But if that comparison be a just one in all respects, surely two other corollaries
ought to be drawn from it, namely,--first, that these Heroic or Impossible images are to be
mingled with others very unheroic and very possible; and, secondly, that in the representation
of the Heroic or Impossible forms, the greatest care must be taken in finishing the details,
so that a painter must not be satisfied with painting well the countenance and the body of
his hero, but ought to spend the greatest part of his time (as Homer the greatest number of
verses) in elaborating the sculptured pattern on his shield.

Let us, however, proceed with our paper.

"One may very safely recommend a little more enthusiasm to the modern Painters; too much is
certainly not the vice of the present age. The Italians seem to have been continually declining
in this respect, from the time of Michael Angelo to that of Carlo Maratti,[44] and from thence
to the very bathos of insipidity to which they are now sunk; so that there is no need of remarking,
that where I mentioned the Italian painters in opposition to the Dutch, I mean not the moderns,
but the heads of the old Roman and Bolognian schools; nor did I mean to include, in my idea
of an Italian painter, the Venetian school, which may be said to be the Dutch part of the Italian
genius. I have only to add a word of advice to the Painters,--that, however excellent they
may be in painting naturally, they would not flatter themselves very much upon it; and to the
Connoisseurs, that when they see a cat or a fiddle painted so finely, that, as the phrase is,
it looks as if you could take it up, they would not for that reason immediately compare the
Painter to Raffaelle and Michael Angelo."

In this passage there are four points chiefly to be remarked. The first, that in the year 1759
the Italian painters were, in our author's opinion, sunk in the very bathos of insipidity.
The second, that the Venetian painters, i.e. Titian, Tintoret, and Veronese, are, in our author's
opinion, to be classed with the Dutch; that is to say, are painters in a style "in which the
slowest intellect is always sure to succeed best." Thirdly, that painting naturally is not
a difficult thing, nor one on which a painter should pride himself. And, finally, that connoisseurs,
seeing a cat or a fiddle successfully painted, ought not therefore immediately to compare the
painter to Raphael or Michael Angelo.

Yet Raphael painted fiddles very carefully in the foreground of his St. Cecilia,--so carefully,
that they quite look as if they might be taken up. So carefully, that I never yet looked at
the picture without wishing that somebody would take them up, and out of the way. And I am
under a very strong persuasion that Raphael did not think painting "naturally" an easy thing.
It will be well to examine into this point a little; and for the present, with the reader's
permission, we will pass over the first two statements in this passage (touching the character
of Italian art in 1759, and of Venetian art in general), and immediately examine some of the
evidence existing as to the real dignity of "natural" painting--that is to say, of painting
carried to the point at which it reaches a deceptive appearance of reality.

  [35] The full title of this chapter is "Of the Received Opinions
  touching the 'Grand Style.'"

  [36] I have put this sentence in a parenthesis, because it is
  inconsistent with the rest of the statement, and with the general
  teaching of the paper; since that which "attends only to the
  invariable" cannot certainly adopt "every ornament that will warm
  the imagination." [Ruskin.]

  [37] Stanza 6 of Byron's Prisoner of Chillon, quoted with a slight
  inaccuracy.

  [38] "Messrs. Mallet and Pictet, being on the lake, in front of the
  Castle of Chillon, on August 6, 1774, sunk a thermometer to the
  depth of 312 feet." ... --SAUSSURE, Voyages dans les Alpes, chap.
  ii, § 33. It appears from the next paragraph, that the thermometer
  was at the bottom of the lake. [Ruskin, altered.]

  [39] Ruskin later wrote: "It leaves out rhythm, which I now consider
  a defect in said definition; otherwise good."

  [40] Take, for instance, the beautiful stanza in the Affliction of
  Margaret:

    I look for ghosts, but none will force
      Their way to me. 'T is falsely said
    That ever there was intercourse
      Between the living and the dead;
    For, surely, then, I should have sight
    Of him I wait for, day and night.
    With love and longing infinite.

  This we call Poetry, because it is invented or made by the writer,
  entering into the mind of a supposed person. Next, take an instance
  of the actual feeling truly experienced and simply expressed by a
  real person.

  "Nothing surprised me more than a woman of Argentière, whose
  cottage I went into to ask for milk, as I came down from the
  glacier of Argentière, in the month of March, 1764. An epidemic
  dysentery had prevailed in the village, and, a few months before,
  had taken away from her, her father, her husband, and her
  brothers, so that she was left alone, with three children in the
  cradle. Her face had something noble in it, and its expression
  bore the seal of a calm and profound sorrow. After having given me
  milk, she asked me whence I came, and what I came there to do, so
  early in the year. When she knew that I was of Geneva, she said to
  me, 'she could not believe that all Protestants were lost souls;
  that there were many honest people among us, and that God was too
  good and too great to condemn all without distinction.' Then,
  after a moment of reflection, she added, in shaking her head, 'But
  that which is very strange is that of so many who have gone away,
  none have ever returned. I,' she added, with an expression of
  grief, 'who have so mourned my husband and my brothers, who have
  never ceased to think of them, who every night conjure them with
  beseechings to tell me where they are, and in what state they are!
  Ah, surely, if they lived anywhere, they would not leave me thus!
  But, perhaps,' she added, 'I am not worthy of this kindness,
  perhaps the pure and innocent spirits of these children,' and she
  looked at the cradle, 'may have their presence, and the joy which
  is denied to me.'"--SAUSSURE, Voyages dans les Alpes, chap.
  xxiv.

  This we do not call Poetry, merely because it is not invented, but
  the true utterance of a real person. [Ruskin.]

  [41] The closing lines of Wordsworth's Childless Father.

  [42] Iliad, 1. 463 ff., 2. 425 ff.; Odyssey, 3. 455 ff., etc.

  [43] Iliad, 6. 468 ff.

  [44] 1625-1713. Known also as Carlo delle Madonne.

OF REALIZATION

VOLUME III, CHAPTER 2

In the outset of this inquiry, the reader must thoroughly understand that we are not now considering
what is to be painted, but how far it is to be painted. Not whether Raphael does right in representing
angels playing upon violins, or whether Veronese does right in allowing cats and monkeys to
join the company of kings: but whether, supposing the subjects rightly chosen, they ought on
the canvas to look like real angels with real violins, and substantial cats looking at veritable
kings; or only like imaginary angels with soundless violins, ideal cats, and unsubstantial kings.

Now, from the first moment when painting began to be a subject of literary inquiry and general
criticism, I cannot remember any writer, not professedly artistical, who has not, more or less,
in one part of his book or another, countenanced the idea that the great end of art is to produce
a deceptive resemblance of reality. It may be, indeed, that we shall find the writers, through
many pages, explaining principles of ideal beauty, and professing great delight in the evidences
of imagination. But whenever a picture is to be definitely described,--whenever the writer
desires to convey to others some impression of an extraordinary excellence, all praise is wound
up with some such statements as these: "It was so exquisitely painted that you expected the
figures to move and speak; you approached the flowers to enjoy their smell, and stretched your
hand towards the fruit which had fallen from the branches. You shrunk back lest the sword of
the warrior should indeed descend, and turned away your head that you might not witness the
agonies of the expiring martyr."

In a large number of instances, language such as this will be found to be merely a clumsy effort
to convey to others a sense of the admiration, of which the writer does not understand the
real cause in himself. A person is attracted to a picture by the beauty of its colour, interested
by the liveliness of its story, and touched by certain countenances or details which remind
him of friends whom he loved, or scenes in which he delighted. He naturally supposes that what
gives him so much pleasure must be a notable example of the painter's skill; but he is ashamed
to confess, or perhaps does not know, that he is so much a child as to be fond of bright colours
and amusing incidents; and he is quite unconscious of the associations which have so secret
and inevitable a power over his heart. He casts about for the cause of his delight, and can
discover no other than that he thought the picture like reality.

In another, perhaps, a still larger number of cases, such language will be found to be that
of simple ignorance--the ignorance of persons whose position in life compels them to speak
of art, without having any real enjoyment of it. It is inexcusably required from people of
the world, that they should see merit in Claudes[45] and Titians; and the only merit which
many persons can either see or conceive in them is, that they must be "like nature."

In other cases, the deceptive power of the art is really felt to be a source of interest and
amusement. This is the case with a large number of the collectors of Dutch pictures. They enjoy
seeing what is flat made to look round, exactly as a child enjoys a trick of legerdemain: they
rejoice in flies which the spectator vainly attempts to brush away,[46] and in dew which he
endeavours to dry by putting the picture in the sun. They take it for the greatest compliment
to their treasures that they should be mistaken for windows; and think the parting of Abraham
and Hagar adequately represented if Hagar seems to be really crying.[47]

It is against critics and connoisseurs of this latter stamp (of whom, in the year 1759, the
juries of art were for the most part composed) that the essay of Reynolds, which we have been
examining, was justly directed. But Reynolds had not sufficiently considered that neither the
men of this class, nor of the two other classes above described, constitute the entire body
of those who praise Art for its realization; and that the holding of this apparently shallow
and vulgar opinion cannot, in all cases, be attributed to the want either of penetration, sincerity,
or sense. The collectors of Gerard Dows and Hobbimas may be passed by with a smile; and the
affectations of Walpole and simplicities of Vasari[48] dismissed with contempt or with compassion.
But very different men from these have held precisely the same language; and, one amongst the
rest, whose authority is absolutely, and in all points, overwhelming.

There was probably never a period in which the influence of art over the minds of men seemed
to depend less on its merely imitative power, than the close of the thirteenth century. No
painting or sculpture at that time reached more than a rude resemblance of reality. Its despised
perspective, imperfect chiaroscuro, and unrestrained flights of fantastic imagination, separated
the artist's work from nature by an interval which there was no attempt to disguise, and little
to diminish. And yet, at this very period, the greatest poet of that, or perhaps of any other
age, and the attached friend of its greatest painter,[49] who must over and over again have
held full and free conversation with him respecting the objects of his art, speaks in the following
terms of painting, supposed to be carried to its highest perfection:

  Qual di pennel fu maestro, e di stile
    Che ritraesse l'ombre, e i tratti, chi' ivi
    Mirar farieno uno ingegno sottile?
  Morti li morti, e i vivi parean vivi:
    Non vide me' di me, chi vide il vero,
    Quant' io calcai, fin che chinato givi.

  DANTE, Purgatorio, canto xii. 1. 64.

  What master of the pencil, or the style,
  Had traced the shades and lines that might have made
  The subtlest workman wonder? Dead, the dead,
  The living seemed alive; with clearer view
  His eye beheld not, who beheld the truth,
  Than mine what I did tread on, while I went
  Low bending.

  --CARY.

Dante has here clearly no other idea of the highest art than that it should bring back, as
in a mirror or vision, the aspect of things passed or absent. The scenes of which he speaks
are, on the pavement, for ever represented by angelic power, so that the souls which traverse
this circle of the rock may see them, as if the years of the world had been rolled back, and
they again stood beside the actors in the moment of action. Nor do I think that Dante's authority
is absolutely necessary to compel us to admit that such art as this might, indeed, be the highest
possible. Whatever delight we may have been in the habit of taking in pictures, if it were
but truly offered to us, to remove at our will the canvas from the frame, and in lieu of it
to behold, fixed for ever, the image of some of those mighty scenes which it has been our way
to make mere themes for the artist's fancy; if, for instance, we could again behold the Magdalene
receiving her pardon at Christ's feet, or the disciples sitting with Him at the table of Emmaus;
and this not feebly nor fancifully, but as if some silver mirror that had leaned against the
wall of the chamber, had been miraculously commanded to retain for ever the colours that had
flashed upon it for an instant,--would we not part with our picture--Titian's or Veronese's
though it might be?

Yes, the reader answers, in the instance of such scenes as these, but not if the scene represented
were uninteresting. Not, indeed, if it were utterly vulgar or painful; but we are not yet certain
that the art which represents what is vulgar or painful is itself of much value; and with respect
to the art whose aim is beauty, even of an inferior order, it seems that Dante's idea of its
perfection has still much evidence in its favour. For among persons of native good sense, and
courage enough to speak their minds, we shall often find a considerable degree of doubt as
to the use of art, in consequence of their habitual comparison of it with reality. "What is
the use, to me, of the painted landscape?" they will ask: "I see more beautiful and perfect
landscapes every day of my life in my forenoon walk." "What is the use, to me, of the painted
effigy of hero or beauty? I can see a stamp of higher heroism, and light of purer beauty, on
the faces round me, utterly inexpressible by the highest human skill." Now, it is evident that
to persons of this temper the only valuable picture would, indeed, be mirrors, reflecting permanently
the images of the things in which they took delight, and of the faces that they loved. "Nay,"
but the reader interrupts (if he is of the Idealist school), "I deny that more beautiful things
are to be seen in nature than in art; on the contrary, everything in nature is faulty, and
art represents nature as perfected." Be it so. Must, therefore, this perfected nature be imperfectly
represented? Is it absolutely required of the painter, who has conceived perfection, that he
should so paint it as to look only like a picture? Or is not Dante's view of the matter right
even here, and would it not be well that the perfect conception of Pallas should be so given
as to look like Pallas herself, rather than merely like the picture of Pallas?[50]

It is not easy for us to answer this question rightly, owing to the difficulty of imagining
any art which should reach the perfection supposed. Our actual powers of imitation are so feeble
that wherever deception is attempted, a subject of a comparatively low or confined order must
be chosen. I do not enter at present into the inquiry how far the powers of imitation extend;
but assuredly up to the present period they have been so limited that it is hardly possible
for us to conceive a deceptive art embracing a high range of subject. But let the reader make
the effort, and consider seriously what he would give at any moment to have the power of arresting
the fairest scenes, those which so often rise before him only to vanish; to stay the cloud
in its fading, the leaf in its trembling, and the shadows in their changing; to bid the fitful
foam be fixed upon the river, and the ripples be everlasting upon the lake; and then to bear
away with him no darkened or feeble sun-stain (though even that is beautiful), but a counterfeit
which should seem no counterfeit-the true and perfect image of life indeed. Or rather (for
the full majesty of such a power is not thus sufficiently expressed) let him consider that
it would be in effect nothing else than a capacity of transporting himself at any moment into
any scene--a gift as great as can be possessed by a disembodied spirit: and suppose, also,
this necromancy embracing not only the present but the past, and enabling us seemingly to enter
into the very bodily presence of men long since gathered to the dust; to behold them in act
as they lived, but--with greater privilege than ever was granted to the companions of those
transient acts of life--to see them fastened at our will in the gesture and expression of an
instant, and stayed, on the eve of some great deed, in immortality of burning purpose. Conceive,
so far as it is possible, such power as this, and then say whether the art which conferred
it is to be spoken lightly of, or whether we should not rather reverence, as half divine, a
gift which would go so far as to raise us into the rank, and invest us with the felicities,
of angels?

Yet such would imitative art be in its perfection. Not by any means an easy thing, as Reynolds
supposes it. Far from being easy, it is so utterly beyond all human power that we have difficulty
even in conceiving its nature or results--the best art we as yet possess comes so far short of it.

But we must not rashly come to the conclusion that such art would, indeed, be the highest possible.
There is much to be considered hereafter on the other side; the only conclusion we are as yet
warranted in forming is, that Reynolds had no right to speak lightly or contemptuously of imitative
art; that in fact, when he did so, he had not conceived its entire nature, but was thinking
of some vulgar conditions of it, which were the only ones known to him, and that, therefore,
his whole endeavour to explain the difference between great and mean art has been disappointed;
that he has involved himself in a crowd of theories, whose issue he had not foreseen, and committed
himself to conclusions which, he never intended. There is an instinctive consciousness in his
own mind of the difference between high and low art; but he is utterly incapable of explaining
it, and every effort which he makes to do so involves him in unexpected fallacy and absurdity.
It is not true that Poetry does not concern herself with minute details. It is not true that
high art seeks only the Invariable. It is not true that imitative art is an easy thing. It
is not true that the faithful rendering of nature is an employment in which "the slowest intellect
is likely to succeed best." All these successive assertions are utterly false and untenable,
while the plain truth, a truth lying at the very door, has all the while escaped him,--that
which was incidentally stated in the preceding chapter,--namely, that the difference between
great and mean art lies, not in definable methods of handling, or styles of representation,
or choices of subjects, but wholly in the nobleness of the end to which the effort of the painter
is addressed. We cannot say that a painter is great because he paints boldly, or paints delicately;
because he generalizes or particularizes; because he loves detail, or because he disdains it.
He is great if, by any of these means, he has laid open noble truths, or aroused noble emotions.
It does not matter whether he paint the petal of a rose, or the chasms of a precipice, so that
Love and Admiration attend him as he labours, and wait for ever upon his work. It does not
matter whether he toil for months upon a few inches of his canvas, or cover a palace front
with colour in a day, so only that it be with a solemn purpose that he has filled his heart
with patience, or urged his hand to haste. And it does not matter whether he seek for his subjects
among peasants or nobles, among the heroic or the simple, in courts or in fields, so only that
he behold all things with a thirst for beauty, and a hatred of meanness and vice. There are,
indeed, certain methods of representation which are usually adopted by the most active minds,
and certain characters of subject usually delighted in by the noblest hearts; but it is quite
possible, quite easy, to adopt the manner of painting without sharing the activity of mind,
and to imitate the choice of subject without possessing the nobility of spirit; while, on the
other hand, it is altogether impossible to foretell on what strange objects the strength of
a great man will sometimes be concentrated, or by what strange means he will sometimes express
himself. So that true criticism of art never can consist in the mere application of rules;
it can be just only when it is founded on quick sympathy with the innumerable instincts and
changeful efforts of human nature, chastened and guided by unchanging love of all things that
God has created to be beautiful, and pronounced to be good.

  [45] Claude Gelée [1600-82], usually called Claude Lorrain, a French
  landscape painter and etcher.

  [46] Vasari, in his Lives of the Painters, tells how Giotto,
  when a student under Cimabue, once painted a fly on the nose of a
  figure on which the master was working, the fly being so realistic
  that Cimabue on returning to the painting attempted to brush it
  away.

  [47] Guercino's Hagar in the Brera gallery in Milan.

  [48] Gerard Dow [1613-75], a Dutch genre painter; Hobbima [1638-1709],
  a Dutch landscape painter; Walpole [1717-97], a famous English
  litterateur; Vasari [1511-74], an Italian painter, now considered
  full of mannerisms and without originality, mainly famous as author
  of The Lives of the Painters.

  [49] Giotto.

  [50] Purgatorio, 12. 31.

OF THE NOVELTY OF LANDSCAPE

VOLUME III, CHAPTER II

Having now obtained, I trust, clear ideas, up to a certain point, of what is generally right
and wrong in all art, both in conception and in workmanship, we have to apply these laws of
right to the particular branch of art which is the subject of our present inquiry, namely,
landscape-painting. Respecting which, after the various meditations into which we have been
led on the high duties and ideals of art, it may not improbably occur to us first to ask,--whether
it be worth inquiring about at all.

That question, perhaps the reader thinks, should have been asked and answered before I had
written, or he read, two volumes and a half about it. So I had answered it, in my own mind;
but it seems time now to give the grounds for this answer. If, indeed, the reader has never
suspected that landscape-painting was anything but good, right, and healthy work, I should
be sorry to put any doubt of its being so into his mind; but if, as seems to me more likely,
he, living in this busy and perhaps somewhat calamitous age, has some suspicion that landscape-painting
is but an idle and empty business, not worth all our long talk about it, then, perhaps, he
will be pleased to have such suspicion done away, before troubling himself farther with these
disquisitions.

I should rather be glad, than otherwise, that he had formed some suspicion on this matter.
If he has at all admitted the truth of anything hitherto said respecting great art, and its
choices of subject, it seems to me he ought, by this time, to be questioning with himself whether
road-side weeds, old cottages, broken stones, and such other materials, be worthy matters for
grave men to busy themselves in the imitation of. And I should like him to probe this doubt
to the deep of it, and bring all his misgivings out to the broad light, that we may see how
we are to deal with them, or ascertain if indeed they are too well founded to be dealt with.

And to this end I would ask him now to imagine himself entering, for the first time in his
life, the room of the Old Water-Colour Society:[51] and to suppose that he has entered it,
not for the sake of a quiet examination of the paintings one by one, but in order to seize
such ideas as it may generally suggest respecting the state and meaning of modern, as compared
with elder, art. I suppose him, of course, that he may be capable of such a comparison, to
be in some degree familiar with the different forms in which art has developed itself within
the periods historically known to us; but never, till that moment, to have seen any completely
modern work. So prepared, and so unprepared, he would, as his ideas began to arrange themselves,
be first struck by the number of paintings representing blue mountains, clear lakes, and ruined
castles or cathedrals, and he would say to himself: "There is something strange in the mind
of these modern people! Nobody ever cared about blue mountains before, or tried to paint the
broken stones of old walls." And the more he considered the subject, the more he would feel
the peculiarity; and, as he thought over the art of Greeks and Romans, he would still repeat,
with increasing certainty of conviction: "Mountains! I remember none. The Greeks did not seem,
as artists, to know that such things were in the world. They carved, or variously represented,
men, and horses, and beasts, and birds, and all kinds of living creatures,--yes, even down
to cuttle-fish; and trees, in a sort of way; but not so much as the outline of a mountain;
and as for lakes, they merely showed they knew the difference between salt and fresh water
by the fish they put into each." Then he would pass on to mediæval art; and still he would
be obliged to repeat: "Mountains! I remember none. Some careless and jagged arrangements of
blue spires or spikes on the horizon, and, here and there, an attempt at representing an overhanging
rock with a hole through it; but merely in order to divide the light behind some human figure.
Lakes! No, nothing of the kind,--only blue bays of sea put in to fill up the background when
the painter could not think of anything else. Broken-down buildings! No; for the most part
very complete and well-appointed buildings, if any; and never buildings at all, but to give
place or explanation to some circumstance of human conduct." And then he would look up again
to the modern pictures, observing, with an increasing astonishment, that here the human interest
had, in many cases, altogether disappeared. That mountains, instead of being used only as a
blue ground for the relief of the heads of saints, were themselves the exclusive subjects of
reverent contemplation; that their ravines, and peaks, and forests, were all painted with an
appearance of as much enthusiasm as had formerly been devoted to the dimple of beauty, or the
frowns of asceticism; and that all the living interest which was still supposed necessary to
the scene, might be supplied by a traveller in a slouched hat, a beggar in a scarlet cloak,
or, in default of these, even by a heron or a wild duck.

And if he could entirely divest himself of his own modern habits of thought, and regard the
subjects in question with the feelings of a knight or monk of the Middle Ages, it might be
a question whether those feelings would not rapidly verge towards contempt. "What!" he might
perhaps mutter to himself, "here are human beings spending the whole of their lives in making
pictures of bits of stone and runlets of water, withered sticks and flying fogs, and actually
not a picture of the gods or the heroes! none of the saints or the martyrs! none of the angels
and demons! none of councils or battles, or any other single thing worth the thought of a man!
Trees and clouds indeed! as if I should not see as many trees as I cared to see, and more,
in the first half of my day's journey to-morrow, or as if it mattered to any man whether the
sky were clear or cloudy, so long as his armour did not get too hot in the sun!"

There can be no question that this would have been somewhat the tone of thought with which
either a Lacedæmonian, a soldier of Rome in her strength, or a knight of the thirteenth century,
would have been apt to regard these particular forms of our present art. Nor can there be any
question that, in many respects, their judgment would have been just. It is true that the indignation
of the Spartan or Roman would have been equally excited against any appearance of luxurious
industry; but the mediæval knight would, to the full, have admitted the nobleness of art; only
he would have had it employed in decorating his church or his prayer-book, not in imitating
moors and clouds. And the feelings of all the three would have agreed in this,--that their
main ground of offence must have been the want of seriousness and purpose in what they saw.
They would all have admitted the nobleness of whatever conduced to the honour of the gods,
or the power of the nation; but they would not have understood how the skill of human life
could be wisely spent in that which did no honour either to Jupiter or to the Virgin; and which
in no wise tended, apparently, either to the accumulation of wealth, the excitement of patriotism,
or the advancement of morality.

And exactly so far forth their judgment would be just, as the landscape-painting could indeed
be shown, for others as well as for them, to be art of this nugatory kind; and so far forth
unjust, as that painting could be shown to depend upon, or cultivate, certain sensibilities
which neither the Greek nor mediæval knight possessed, and which have resulted from some extraordinary
change in human nature since their time. We have no right to assume, without very accurate
examination of it, that this change has been an ennobling one. The simple fact, that we are,
in some strange way, different from all the great races that have existed before us, cannot
at once be received as the proof of our own greatness; nor can it be granted, without any question,
that we have a legitimate subject of complacency in being under the influence of feelings,
with which neither Miltiades nor the Black Prince, neither Homer nor Dante, neither Socrates
nor St. Francis, could for an instant have sympathized.

Whether, however, this fact be one to excite our pride or not, it is assuredly one to excite
our deepest interest. The fact itself is certain. For nearly six thousand years the energies
of man have pursued certain beaten paths, manifesting some constancy of feeling throughout
all that period, and involving some fellowship at heart, among the various nations who by turns
succeeded or surpassed each other in the several aims of art or policy. So that, for these
thousands of years, the whole human race might be to some extent described in general terms.
Man was a creature separated from all others by his instinctive sense of an Existence superior
to his own, invariably manifesting this sense of the being of a God more strongly in proportion
to his own perfectness of mind and body; and making enormous and self-denying efforts, in order
to obtain some persuasion of the immediate presence or approval of the Divinity. So that, on
the whole, the best things he did were done as in the presence, or for the honour, of his gods;
and, whether in statues, to help him to imagine them, or temples raised to their honour, or
acts of self-sacrifice done in the hope of their love, he brought whatever was best and skilfullest
in him into their service, and lived in a perpetual subjection to their unseen power. Also,
he was always anxious to know something definite about them; and his chief books, songs, and
pictures were filled with legends about them, or specially devoted to illustration of their
lives and nature.

Next to these gods, he was always anxious to know something about his human ancestors; fond
of exalting the memory, and telling or painting the history of old rulers and benefactors;
yet full of an enthusiastic confidence in himself, as having in many ways advanced beyond the
best efforts of past time; and eager to record his own doings for future fame. He was a creature
eminently warlike, placing his principal pride in dominion; eminently beautiful, and having
great delight in his own beauty; setting forth this beauty by every species of invention in
dress, and rendering his arms and accoutrements superbly decorative of his form. He took, however,
very little interest in anything but what belonged to humanity; caring in no wise for the external
world, except as it influenced his own destiny; honouring the lightning because it could strike
him, the sea because it could drown him, the fountains because they gave him drink, and the
grass because it yielded him seed; but utterly incapable of feeling any special happiness in
the love of such things, or any earnest emotion about them, considered as separate from man;
therefore giving no time to the study of them;--knowing little of herbs, except only which
were hurtful and which healing; of stones, only which would glitter brightest in a crown, or
last the longest in a wall: of the wild beasts, which were best for food, and which the stoutest
quarry for the hunter;--thus spending only on the lower creatures and inanimate things his
waste energy, his dullest thoughts, his most languid emotions, and reserving all his acuter
intellect for researches into his own nature and that of the gods; all his strength of will
for the acquirement of political or moral power; all his sense of beauty for things immediately
connected with his own person and life; and all his deep affections for domestic or divine
companionship.

Such, in broad light and brief terms, was man for five thousand years. Such he is no longer.
Let us consider what he is now, comparing the descriptions clause by clause.

I. He was invariably sensible of the existence of gods, and went about all his speculations
or works holding this as an acknowledged fact, making his best efforts in their service. Now
he is capable of going through life with hardly any positive idea on this subject,--doubting,
fearing, suspecting, analyzing,--doing everything, in fact, but believing; hardly ever getting
quite up to that point which hitherto was wont to be the starting-point for all generations.
And human work has accordingly hardly any reference to spiritual beings, but is done either
from a patriotic or personal interest,--either to benefit mankind, or reach some selfish end,
not (I speak of human work in the broad sense) to please the gods.

II. He was a beautiful creature, setting forth this beauty by all means in his power, and depending
upon it for much of his authority over his fellows. So that the ruddy cheek of David, and the
ivory skin of Atrides, and the towering presence of Saul, and the blue eyes of Coeur de Lion,
were among chief reasons why they should be kings; and it was one of the aims of all education,
and of all dress, to make the presence of the human form stately and lovely. Now it has become
the task of grave philosophy partly to depreciate or conceal this bodily beauty; and even by
those who esteem it in their hearts, it is not made one of the great ends of education; man
has become, upon the whole, an ugly animal, and is not ashamed of his ugliness.

III. He was eminently warlike. He is now gradually becoming more and more ashamed of all the
arts and aims of battle. So that the desire of dominion, which was once frankly confessed or
boasted of as a heroic passion, is now sternly reprobated or cunningly disclaimed.

IV. He used to take no interest in anything but what immediately concerned himself. Now, he
has deep interest in the abstract nature of things, inquires as eagerly into the laws which
regulate the economy of the material world, as into those of his own being, and manifests a
passionate admiration of inanimate objects, closely resembling, in its elevation and tenderness,
the affection which he bears to those living souls with which he is brought into the nearest
fellowship.

It is this last change only which is to be the subject of our present inquiry; but it cannot
be doubted that it is closely connected with all the others, and that we can only thoroughly
understand its nature by considering il in this connection. For, regarded by itself, we might
perhaps, too rashly assume it to be a natural consequence of the progress of the race. There
appears to be a diminution of selfishness in it, and a more extended and heartfelt desire of
understanding the manner of God's working; and this the more, because one of the permanent
characters of this change is a greater accuracy in the statement of external facts. When the
eyes of men were fixed first upon themselves, and upon nature solely and secondarily as bearing
upon their interests, it was of less consequence to them what the ultimate laws of nature were,
than what their immediate effects were upon human beings. Hence they could rest satisfied with
phenomena instead of principles, and accepted without scrutiny every fable which seemed sufficiently
or gracefully to account for those phenomena. But so far as the eyes of men are now withdrawn
from themselves, and turned upon the inanimate things about them, the results cease to be of
importance, and the laws become essential.

In these respects, it might easily appear to us that this change was assuredly one of steady
and natural advance. But when we contemplate the others above noted, of which it is clearly
one of the branches or consequences, we may suspect ourselves of over-rashness in our self-congratulation,
and admit the necessity of a scrupulous analysis both of the feeling itself and of its tendencies.

Of course a complete analysis, or anything like it, would involve a treatise on the whole history
of the world. I shall merely endeavour to note some of the leading and more interesting circumstances
bearing on the subject, and to show sufficient practical ground for the conclusion, that landscape-painting
is indeed a noble and useful art, though one not long known by man. I shall therefore examine,
as best I can, the effect of landscape, 1st, on the Classical mind; 2dly, on the Mediæval mind;
and lastly, on the Modern mind. But there is one point of some interest respecting the effect
of it on any mind, which must be settled first; and this I will endeavour to do in the next
chapter.

  [51] The Society of Painters in Water-Colours, often referred to as
  the Old Water-Colour Society. Ruskin was elected an honorary member
  in 1873.

OF THE PATHETIC FALLACY

VOLUME III, CHAPTER 12

Now, therefore, putting these tiresome and absurd words[52] quite out of our way, we may go
on at our ease to examine the point in question,--namely, the difference between the ordinary,
proper, and true appearances of things to us; and the extraordinary, or false appearances,
when we are under the influence of emotion, or contemplative fancy; false appearances, I say,
as being entirely unconnected with any real power or character in the object, and only imputed
to it by us.

For instance--

    The spendthrift crocus, bursting through the mould
    Naked and shivering, with his cup of gold.[53]

This is very beautiful, and yet very untrue. The crocus is not a spendthrift, but a hardy plant;
its yellow is not gold, but saffron. How is it that we enjoy so much the having it put into
our heads that it is anything else than a plain crocus?

It is an important question. For, throughout our past reasonings about art, we have always
found that nothing could be good or useful, or ultimately pleasurable, which was untrue. But
here is something pleasurable in written poetry which is nevertheless untrue. And what is more,
if we think over our favourite poetry, we shall find it full of this kind of fallacy, and that
we like it all the more for being so.

It will appear also, on consideration of the matter, that this fallacy is of two principal
kinds. Either, as in this case of the crocus, it is the fallacy of wilful fancy, which involves
no real expectation that it will be believed; or else it is a fallacy caused by an excited
state of the feelings, making us, for the time, more or less irrational. Of the cheating of
the fancy we shall have to speak presently; but, in this chapter, I want to examine the nature
of the other error, that which the mind admits when affected strongly by emotion. Thus, for
instance, in Alton Locke,--

    They rowed her in across the rolling foam--
    The cruel, crawling foam.[54]

The foam is not cruel, neither does it crawl. The state of mind which attributes to it these
characters of a living creature is one in which the reason is unhinged by grief. All violent
feelings have the same effect. They produce in us a falseness in all our impressions of external
things, which I would generally characterize as the "pathetic fallacy."

Now we are in the habit of considering this fallacy as eminently a character of poetical description,
and the temper of mind in which we allow it, as one eminently poetical, because passionate.
But I believe, if we look well into the matter, that we shall find the greatest poets do not
often admit this kind of falseness,--that it is only the second order of poets who much delight
in it.[55]

Thus, when Dante describes the spirits falling from the bank of Acheron "as dead leaves flutter
from a bough,"[56] he gives the most perfect image possible of their utter lightness, feebleness,
passiveness, and scattering agony of despair, without, however, for an instant losing his own
clear perception that these are souls, and those are leaves; he makes no confusion of one with
the other. But when Coleridge speaks of

    The one red leaf, the last of its clan,
    That dances as often as dance it can,[57]

he has a morbid, that is to say, a so far false, idea about the leaf; he fancies a life in
it, and will, which there are not; confuses its powerlessness with choice, its fading death
with merriment, and the wind that shakes it with music. Here, however, there is some beauty,
even in the morbid passage; but take an instance in Homer and Pope. Without the knowledge of
Ulysses, Elpenor, his youngest follower, has fallen from an upper chamber in the Circean palace,
and has been left dead, unmissed by his leader or companions, in the haste of their departure.
They cross the sea to the Cimmerian land; and Ulysses summons the shades from Tartarus. The
first which appears is that of the lost Elpenor. Ulysses, amazed, and in exactly the spirit
of bitter and terrified lightness which is seen in Hamlet,[58] addresses the spirit with the
simple, startled words:--

"Elpenor! How camest thou under the shadowy darkness? Hast thou come faster on foot than I
in my black ship?"[59]

Which Pope renders thus:--

    O, say, what angry power Elpenor led
    To glide in shades, and wander with the dead?
    How could thy soul, by realms and seas disjoined,
    Outfly the nimble sail, and leave the lagging wind?

I sincerely hope the reader finds no pleasure here, either in the nimbleness of the sail, or
the laziness of the wind! And yet how is it that these conceits are so painful now, when they
have been pleasant to us in the other instances?

For a very simple reason. They are not a pathetic fallacy at all, for they are put into the
mouth of the wrong passion--a passion which never could possibly have spoken them--agonized
curiosity. Ulysses wants to know the facts of the matter; and the very last thing his mind
could do at the moment would be to pause, or suggest in anywise what was not a fact. The delay
in the first three lines, and conceit in the last, jar upon us instantly like the most frightful
discord in music. No poet of true imaginative power could possibly have written the passage.[60]

Therefore we see that the spirit of truth must guide us in some sort, even in our enjoyment
of fallacy. Coleridge's fallacy has no discord in it, but Pope's has set our teeth on edge.
Without farther questioning, I will endeavour to state the main bearings of this matter.

The temperament which admits the pathetic fallacy, is, as I said above, that of a mind and
body in some sort too weak to deal fully with what is before them or upon them; borne away,
or over-clouded, or over-dazzled by emotion; and it is a more or less noble state, according
to the force of the emotion which has induced it. For it is no credit to a man that he is not
morbid or inaccurate in his perceptions, when he has no strength of feeling to warp them; and
it is in general a sign of higher capacity and stand in the ranks of being, that the emotions
should be strong enough to vanquish, partly, the intellect, and make it believe what they choose.
But it is still a grander condition when the intellect also rises, till it is strong enough
to assert its rule against, or together with, the utmost efforts of the passions; and the whole
man stands in an iron glow, white hot, perhaps, but still strong, and in no wise evaporating;
even if he melts, losing none of his weight.

So, then, we have the three ranks: the man who perceives rightly, because he does not feel,
and to whom the primrose is very accurately the primrose,[61] because he does not love it.
Then, secondly, the man who perceives wrongly, because he feels, and to whom the primrose is
anything else than a primrose: a star, or a sun, or a fairy's shield, or a forsaken maiden.
And then, lastly, there is the man who perceives rightly in spite of his feelings, and to whom
the primrose is for ever nothing else than itself--a little flower apprehended in the very
plain and leafy fact of it, whatever and how many soever the associations and passions may
be that crowd around it. And, in general, these three classes may be rated in comparative order,
as the men who are not poets at all, and the poets of the second order, and the poets of the
first; only however great a man may be, there are always some subjects which ought to throw
him off his balance; some, by which his poor human capacity of thought should be conquered,
and brought into the inaccurate and vague state of perception, so that the language of the
highest inspiration becomes broken, obscure, and wild in metaphor, resembling that of the weaker
man, overborne by weaker things.

And thus, in full, there are four classes: the men who feel nothing, and therefore see truly;
the men who feel strongly, think weakly, and see untruly (second order of poets); the men who
feel strongly, think strongly, and see truly (first order of poets); and the men who, strong
as human creatures can be, are yet submitted to influences stronger than they, and see in a
sort untruly, because what they see is inconceivably above them. This last is the usual condition
of prophetic inspiration.

I separate these classes, in order that their character may be clearly understood; but of course
they are united each to the other by imperceptible transitions, and the same mind, according
to the influences to which it is subjected, passes at different times into the various states.
Still, the difference between the great and less man is, on the whole, chiefly in this point
of alterability. That is to say, the one knows too much, and perceives and feels too much of
the past and future, and of all things beside and around that which immediately affects him,
to be in any wise shaken by it. His mind is made up; his thoughts have an accustomed current;
his ways are stedfast; it is not this or that new sight which will at once unbalance him. He
is tender to impression at the surface, like a rock with deep moss upon it; but there is too
much mass of him to be moved. The smaller man, with the same degree of sensibility, is at once
carried off his feet; he wants to do something he did not want to do before; he views all the
universe in a new light through his tears; he is gay or enthusiastic, melancholy or passionate,
as things come and go to him. Therefore the high creative poet might even be thought, to a
great extent, impassive (as shallow people think Dante stern), receiving indeed all feelings
to the full, but having a great centre of reflection and knowledge in which he stands serene,
and watches the feeling, as it were, from far off.

Dante, in his most intense moods, has entire command of himself, and can look around calmly,
at all moments, for the image or the word that will best tell what he sees to the upper or
lower world. But Keats and Tennyson, and the poets of the second order, are generally themselves
subdued by the feelings under which they write, or, at least, write as choosing to be so; and
therefore admit certain expressions and modes of thought which are in some sort diseased or false.

Now so long as we see that the feeling is true, we pardon, or are even pleased by, the confessed
fallacy of sight which it induces: we are pleased, for instance, with those lines of Kingsley's
above quoted, not because they fallaciously describe foam, but because they faithfully describe
sorrow. But the moment the mind of the speaker becomes cold, that moment every such expression
becomes untrue, as being for ever untrue in the external facts. And there is no greater baseness
in literature than the habit of using these metaphorical expressions in cool blood. An inspired
writer, in full impetuosity of passion, may speak wisely and truly of "raging waves of the
sea foaming out their own shame";[62] but it is only the basest writer who cannot speak of
the sea without talking of "raging waves," "remorseless floods," "ravenous billows," etc.;
and it is one of the signs of the highest power in a writer to check all such habits of thought,
and to keep his eyes fixed firmly on the pure fact, out of which if any feeling conies to him
or his reader, he knows it must be a true one.

To keep to the waves, I forget who it is who represents a man in despair desiring that his
body may be cast into the sea,

    Whose changing mound, and foam that passed away,
    Might mock the eye that questioned where I lay.

Observe, there is not a single false, or even overcharged, expression. "Mound" of the sea wave
is perfectly simple and true; "changing" is as familiar as may be; "foam that passed away,"
strictly literal; and the whole line descriptive of the reality with a degree of accuracy which
I know not any other verse, in the range of poetry, that altogether equals. For most people
have not a distinct idea of the clumsiness and massiveness of a large wave. The word "wave"
is used too generally of ripples and breakers, and bendings in light drapery or grass: it does
not by itself convey a perfect image. But the word "mound" is heavy, large, dark, definite;
there is no mistaking the kind of wave meant, nor missing the sight of it. Then the term "changing"
has a peculiar force also. Most people think of waves as rising and falling. But if they look
at the sea carefully, they will perceive that the waves do not rise and fall. They change.
Change both place and form, but they do not fall; one wave goes on, and on, and still on; now
lower, now higher, now tossing its mane like a horse, now building itself together like a wall,
now shaking, now steady, but still the same wave, till at last it seems struck by something,
and changes, one knows not how,--becomes another wave.

The close of the line insists on this image, and paints it still more perfectly,--"foam that
passed away." Not merely melting, disappearing, but passing on, out of sight, on the career
of the wave. Then, having put the absolute ocean fact as far as he may before our eyes, the
poet leaves us to feel about it as we may, and to trace for ourselves the opposite fact,--the
image of the green mounds that do not change, and the white and written stones that do not
pass away; and thence to follow out also the associated images of the calm life with the quiet
grave, and the despairing life with the fading foam--

    Let no man move his bones.

As for Samaria, her king is cut off like the foam upon the water.[63]

But nothing of this is actually told or pointed out, and the expressions, as they stand, are
perfectly severe and accurate, utterly uninfluenced by the firmly governed emotion of the writer.
Even the word "mock" is hardly an exception, as it may stand merely for "deceive" or "defeat,"
without implying any impersonation of the waves.

It may be well, perhaps, to give one or two more instances to show the peculiar dignity possessed
by all passages, which thus limit their expression to the pure fact, and leave the hearer to
gather what he can from it. Here is a notable one from the Iliad. Helen, looking from the Scæan
gate of Troy over the Grecian host, and telling Priam the names of its captains, says at last:--

    "I see all the other dark-eyed Greeks; but two I cannot
    see,--Castor and Pollux,--whom one mother bore with me. Have they
    not followed from fair Lacedæmon, or have they indeed come in
    their sea-wandering ships, but now will not enter into the battle
    of men, fearing the shame and the scorn that is in Me?"

Then Homer:--

    "So she spoke. But them, already, the life-giving earth possessed,
    there in Lacedæmon, in the dear fatherland."[64]

Note, here, the high poetical truth carried to the extreme. The poet has to speak of the earth
in sadness, but he will not let that sadness affect or change his thoughts of it. No; though
Castor and Pollux be dead, yet the earth is our mother still, fruitful, life-giving. These
are the facts of the thing. I see nothing else than these. Make what you will of them.

Take another very notable instance from Casimir de la Vigne's terrible ballad, "La Toilette
de Constance." I must quote a few lines out of it here and there, to enable the reader who
has not the book by him, to understand its close.

        "Vite, Anna! vite; au miroir!
           Plus vite, Anna. L'heure s'avance,
         Et je vais au bal ce soir
           Chez l'ambassadeur de France.

    "Y pensez-vous? ils sont fanés, ces noeuds;
      Ils sont d'hier; mon Dieu, comme tout passe!
    Que du réseau qui retient mes cheveux
      Les glands d'azur retombent avec grâce.
    Plus haut! Plus bas! Vous ne comprenez rien!
      Que sur mon front ce saphir étincelle:
    Vous me piquez, maladroite. Ah, c'est bien,
      Bien,--chère Anna! Je t'aime, je suis belle."

    "Celui qu'en vain je voudrais oublier ...
      (Anna, ma robe) il y sera, j'espère.
    (Ah, fi! profane, est-ce là mon collier?
      Quoi! ces grains d'or bénits par le Saint-Père!)
    II y sera; Dieu, s'il pressait ma main,
      En y pensant à peine je respire:
    Frère Anselmo doit m'entendre demain,
      Comment ferai-je, Anna, pour tout lui dire?...

        "Vite! un coup d'oeil au miroir,
           Le dernier.--J'ai l'assurance
        Qu'on va m'adorer ce soir
           Chez l'ambassadeur de France."

    Pres du foyer, Constance s'admirait.
      Dieu! sur sa robe il vole une étincelle!
    Au feu! Courez! Quand l'espoir l'enivrait,
      Tout perdre ainsi! Quoi! Mourir,--et si belle!
    L'horrible feu ronge avec volupté
      Ses bras, son sein, et l'entoure, et s'élève,
    Et sans pitié dévore sa beauté,
      Ses dix-huit ans, hélas, et son doux rêve!

        Adieu, bal, plaisir, amour!
           On disait, Pauvre Constance!
        Et l'on dansa, jusqu'au jour,
           Chez l'ambassadeur de France.[65]

Yes, that is the fact of it. Right or wrong, the poet does not say. What you may think about
it, he does not know. He has nothing to do with that. There lie the ashes of the dead girl
in her chamber. There they danced, till the morning, at the Ambassador's of France. Make what
you will of it.

If the reader will look through the ballad, of which I have quoted only about the third part,
he will find that there is not, from beginning to end of it, a single poetical (so called)
expression, except in one stanza. The girl speaks as simple prose as may be; there is not a
word she would not have actually used as she was dressing. The poet stands by, impassive as
a statue, recording her words just as they come. At last the doom seizes her, and in the very
presence of death, for an instant, his own emotions conquer him. He records no longer the facts
only, but the facts as they seem to him. The fire gnaws with voluptuousness--without pity.
It is soon past. The fate is fixed for ever; and he retires into his pale and crystalline atmosphere
of truth. He closes all with the calm veracity,

    They said, "Poor Constance!"

Now in this there is the exact type of the consummate poetical temperament. For, be it clearly
and constantly remembered, that the greatness of a poet depends upon the two faculties, acuteness
of feeling, and command of it. A poet is great, first in proportion to the strength of his
passion, and then, that strength being granted, in proportion to his government of it; there
being, however, always a point beyond which it would be inhuman and monstrous if he pushed
this government, and, therefore, a point at which all feverish and wild fancy becomes just
and true. Thus the destruction of the kingdom of Assyria cannot be contemplated firmly by a
prophet of Israel. The fact is too great, too wonderful. It overthrows him, dashes him into
a confused element of dreams. All the world is, to his stunned thought, full of strange voices.
Simply bad writing may almost always, as above noticed, be known by its adoption of these fanciful
metaphorical expressions as a sort of current coin; yet there is even a worse, at least a more
harmful condition of writing than this, in which such expressions are not ignorantly and feelinglessly
caught up, but, by some master, skilful in handling, yet insincere, deliberately wrought out
with chill and studied fancy; as if we should try to make an old lava-stream look red-hot again,
by covering it with dead leaves, or white-hot, with hoar-frost.

When Young is lost in veneration, as he dwells on the character of a truly good and holy man,
he permits himself for a moment to be overborne by the feeling so far as to exclaim--

    Where shall I find him? angels, tell me where.
    You know him; he is near you; point him out.
    Shall I see glories beaming from his brow,
    Or trace his footsteps by the rising flowers?[68]

This emotion has a worthy cause, and is thus true and right. But now hear the cold-hearted
Pope say to a shepherd girl--

    Where'er you walk, cool gales shall fan the glade;
    Trees, where you sit, shall crowd into a shade;
    Your praise the birds shall chant in every grove,
    And winds shall waft it to the powers above.
    But would you sing, and rival Orpheus' strain,
    The wondering forests soon should dance again;
    The moving mountains hear the powerful call,
    And headlong streams hang, listening, in their fall.[69]

This is not, nor could it for a moment be mistaken for, the language of passion. It is simple
falsehood, uttered by hypocrisy; definite absurdity, rooted in affectation, and coldly asserted
in the teeth of nature and fact. Passion will indeed go far in deceiving itself; but it must
be a strong passion, not the simple wish of a lover to tempt his mistress to sing. Compare
a very closely parallel passage in Wordsworth, in which the lover has lost his mistress:--

    Three years had Barbara in her grave been laid,
    When thus his moan he made:--

    "Oh, move, thou cottage, from behind yon oak,
      Or let the ancient tree uprooted lie,
    That in some other way yon smoke
      May mount into the sky.
    If still behind yon pine-tree's ragged bough,
      Headlong, the waterfall must come,
      Oh, let it, then, be dumb--
    Be anything, sweet stream, but that which thou art now."[70]

Here is a cottage to be moved, if not a mountain, and a water-fall to be silent, if it is not
to hang listening: but with what different relation to the mind that contemplates them! Here,
in the extremity of its agony, the soul cries out wildly for relief, which at the same moment
it partly knows to be impossible, but partly believes possible, in a vague impression that
a miracle might be wrought to give relief even to a less sore distress,--that nature is kind,
and God is kind, and that grief is strong; it knows not well what is possible to such grief.
To silence a stream, to move a cottage wall,--one might think it could do as much as that!

I believe these instances are enough to illustrate the main point I insist upon respecting
the pathetic fallacy,--that so far as it is a fallacy, it is always the sign of a morbid state
of mind, and comparatively of a weak one. Even in the most inspired prophet it is a sign of
the incapacity of his human sight or thought to bear what has been revealed to it. In ordinary
poetry, if it is found in the thoughts of the poet himself, it is at once a sign of his belonging
to the inferior school; if in the thoughts of the characters imagined by him, it is right or
wrong according to the genuineness of the emotion from which it springs; always, however, implying
necessarily some degree of weakness in the character.

Take two most exquisite instances from master hands. The Jessy of Shenstone, and the Ellen
of Wordsworth, have both been betrayed and deserted. Jessy, in the course of her most touching
complaint says:--

    If through the garden's flowery tribes I stray,
      Where bloom the jasmines that could once allure,
    "Hope not to find delight in us," they say,
      "For we are spotless, Jessy; we are pure."[71]

Compare with this some of the words of Ellen:--

    "Ah, why," said Ellen, sighing to herself,
    "Why do not words, and kiss, and solemn pledge,
    And nature, that is kind in woman's breast,
    And reason, that in man is wise and good,
    And fear of Him who is a righteous Judge,--
    Why do not these prevail for human life,
    To keep two hearts together, that began
    Their springtime with one love, and that have need
    Of mutual pity and forgiveness sweet
    To grant, or be received; while that poor bird--
    O, come and hear him! Thou who hast to me
    Been faithless, hear him;--though a lowly creature,
    One of God's simple children that yet know not
    The Universal Parent, how he sings!
    As if he wished the firmament of heaven
    Should listen, and give back to him the voice
    Of his triumphant constancy and love;
    The proclamation that he makes, how far
    His darkness doth transcend our fickle light."[72]

The perfection of both these passages, as far as regards truth and tenderness of imagination
in the two poets, is quite insuperable. But of the two characters imagined, Jessy is weaker
than Ellen, exactly in so far as something appears to her to be in nature which is not. The
flowers do not really reproach her. God meant them to comfort her, not to taunt her; they would
do so if she saw them rightly.

Ellen, on the other hand, is quite above the slightest erring emotion. There is not the barest
film of fallacy in all her thoughts. She reasons as calmly as if she did not feel. And, although
the singing of the bird suggests to her the idea of its desiring to be heard in heaven, she
does not for an instant admit any veracity in the thought. "As if," she says,--"I know he means
nothing of the kind; but it does verily seem as if." The reader will find, by examining the
rest of the poem, that Ellen's character is throughout consistent in this clear though passionate
strength.[73]

It then being, I hope, now made clear to the reader in all respects that the pathetic fallacy
is powerful only so far as it is pathetic, feeble so far as it is fallacious, and, therefore,
that the dominion of Truth is entire, over this, as over every other natural and just state
of the human mind, we may go on to the subject for the dealing with which this prefatory inquiry
became necessary; and why necessary, we shall see forthwith.

  [52] Three short sections discussing the use of the terms "Objective"
  and "Subjective" have been omitted from the beginning of this chapter.

  [53] Holmes (Oliver Wendell), quoted by Miss Mitford in her
  Recollections of a Literary Life. [Ruskin.] From Astræa, a Poem
  delivered before the Phi Beta Kappa Society of Yale College. The
  passage in which these lines are found was later published as
  Spring.

  [54] Kingsley's Alton Locke, chap. 26.

  [55] I admit two orders of poets, but no third; and by these two
  orders I mean the creative (Shakspere, Homer, Dante), and
  Reflective or Perceptive (Wordsworth, Keats, Tennyson). But both of
  these must be first-rate in their range, though their range is
  different; and with poetry second-rate in quality no one ought to
  be allowed to trouble mankind. There is quite enough of the
  best,--much more than we can ever read or enjoy in the length of a
  life; and it is a literal wrong or sin in any person to encumber us
  with inferior work. I have no patience with apologies made by young
  pseudo-poets, "that they believe there is some good in what they
  have written: that they hope to do better in time," etc. Some
  good! If there is not all good, there is no good. If they ever
  hope to do better, why do they trouble us now? Let them rather
  courageously burn all they have done, and wait for the better days.
  There are few men, ordinarily educated, who in moments of strong
  feeling could not strike out a poetical thought, and afterwards
  polish it so as to be presentable. But men of sense know better
  than so to waste their time; and those who sincerely love poetry,
  know the touch of the master's hand on the chords too well to
  fumble among them after him. Nay, more than this, all inferior
  poetry is an injury to the good, inasmuch as it takes away the
  freshness of rhymes, blunders upon and gives a wretched commonalty
  to good thoughts; and, in general, adds to the weight of human
  weariness in a most woful and culpable manner. There are few
  thoughts likely to come across ordinary men, which have not already
  been expressed by greater men in the best possible way; and it is a
  wiser, more generous, more noble thing to remember and point out
  the perfect words, than to invent poorer ones, wherewith to
  encumber temporarily the world. [Ruskin.]

  [56] Inferno, 3. 112.

  [57] Christabel, 1. 49-50.

  [58] "Well said, old mole! can'st work i' the ground so
  fast?"--[Ruskin.]

  [59] Odyssey, 11. 57-58.

  [60] It is worth while comparing the way a similar question is put
  by the exquisite sincerity of Keats:--

      He wept, and his bright tears
  Went trickling down the golden bow he held.
  Thus, with half-shut, suffused eyes, he stood;
  While from beneath some cumbrous boughs hard by
  With solemn step an awful goddess came,
  And there was purport in her looks for him,
  Which he with eager guess began to read
  Perplex'd, the while melodiously he said,
  "How cam'st thou over the unfooted sea?"

                             Hyperion, 3. 42.--[Ruskin.]

  [61] See Wordsworth's Peter Bell, Part I:--

  A primrose by a river's brim
  A yellow primrose was to him,
  And it was nothing more.

  [62] Jude 13.

  [63] Kings xxiii, 18, and Hosea x, 7.

  [64] Iliad, 3. 243. In the MS. Ruskin notes, "The insurpassably
  tender irony in the epithet--'life-giving earth'--of the grave";
  and then adds another illustration:--"Compare the hammer-stroke at
  the close of the [32d] chapter of Vanity Fair--'The darkness came
  down on the field and city, and Amelia was praying for George, who
  was lying on his face, dead, with a bullet through his heart. A
  great deal might have been said about it. The writer is very sorry
  for Amelia, neither does he want faith in prayer. He knows as well
  as any of us that prayer must be answered in some sort; but those
  are the facts. The man and woman sixteen miles apart---one on her
  knees on the floor, the other on his face in the clay. So much love
  in her heart, so much lead in his. Make what you can of it." [Cook
  and Wedderburn.]

  [65] The poem may be crudely paraphrased as follows:--

  "Quick, Anna, quick! to the mirror! It is late,
  And I'm to dance at the ambassador's ...
  I'm going to the ball ...

                            "They're faded, see,
  These ribbons--they belong to yesterday.
  Heavens, how all things pass! Now gracefully hang
  The blue tassels from the net that holds my hair.

  "Higher!--no, lower!--you get nothing right!...
  Now let this sapphire sparkle on my brow.
  You're pricking me, you careless
  thing! That's good!
  I love you, Anna dear. How fair I am....

  "I hope he'll be there, too--the one I've tried
  To forget! no use! (Anna, my gown!) he too ...
  (O fie, you wicked girl! my necklace, this?
  These golden beads the Holy Father blessed?)

  "He'll be there--Heavens! suppose he takes my hand
  --I scarce can draw my breath for thinking of it!
  And I confess to Father Anselmo
  To-morrow--how can I ever tell him all?...
  One last glance at the mirror.
  O, I'm sure That they'll adore me at the ball to-night."

  Before the fire she stands admiringly.
  O God! a spark has leapt into her gown.
  Fire, fire!--O run!--Lost thus when mad with hope?
  What, die? and she so fair? The hideous flames
  Rage greedily about her arms and breast,
  Envelop her, and leaping ever higher,
  Swallow up all her beauty, pitiless--
  Her eighteen years, alas! and her sweet dream.

  Adieu to ball, to pleasure, and to love!
  "Poor Constance!" said the dancers at the ball,
  "Poor Constance!"--and they danced till break of day.

  [66] Isaiah xiv, 8.

  [67] Isaiah lv, 12.

  [68] Night Thoughts, 2. 345.

  [69] Pastorals: Summer, or Alexis, 73 ff., with the omission of
  two couplets after the first.

  [70] From the poem beginning 'T is said that some have died for
  love, Ruskin evidently quoted from memory, for there are several
  verbal slips in the passage quoted.

  [71] Stanza 16, of Shenstone's twenty-sixth Elegy.

  [72] The Excursion, 6. 869 ff.

  [73] I cannot quit this subject without giving two more instances,
  both exquisite, of the pathetic fallacy, which I have just come
  upon, in Maud:--

                    For a great speculation had fail'd;
  And ever he mutter'd and madden'd, and ever wann'd with despair;
  And out he walk'd, when the wind like a broken worldling wail'd,
  And the flying gold of the ruin'd woodlands drove thro' the air.

      There has fallen a splendid tear
        From the passion-flower at the gate.
      The red rose cries, "She is near, she is near!"
        And the white rose weeps, "She is late."
      The larkspur listens, "I hear, I hear!"
        And the lily whispers, "I wait."          [Ruskin.]

OF CLASSICAL LANDSCAPE

VOLUME III, CHAPTER 13

My reason for asking the reader to give so much of his time to the examination of the pathetic
fallacy was, that, whether in literature or in art, he will find it eminently characteristic
of the modern mind; and in the landscape, whether of literature or art, he will also find the
modern painter endeavouring to express something which he, as a living creature imagines in
the lifeless object, while the classical and mediæval painters were content with expressing
the unimaginary and actual qualities of the object itself. It will be observed that, according
to the principle stated long ago, I use the words painter and poet quite indifferently, including
in our inquiry the landscape of literature, as well as that of painting; and this the more
because the spirit of classical landscape has hardly been expressed in any other way than by words.

Taking, therefore, this wide field, it is surely a very notable circumstance, to begin with,
that this pathetic fallacy is eminently characteristic of modern painting. For instance, Keats,
describing a wave breaking out at sea, says of it:--

    Down whose green back the short-lived foam, all hoar,
    Bursts gradual, with a wayward indolence.[74]

That is quite perfect, as an example of the modern manner. The idea of the peculiar action
with which foam rolls down a long, large wave could not have been given by any other words
so well as by this "wayward indolence." But Homer would never have written, never thought of,
such words. He could not by any possibility have lost sight of the great fact that the wave,
from the beginning to the end of it, do what it might, was still nothing else than salt water;
and that salt water could not be either wayward or indolent. He will call the waves "over-roofed,"
"full-charged," "monstrous," "compact-black," "dark-clear," "violet-coloured," "wine-coloured,"
and so on. But every one of these epithets is descriptive of pure physical nature. "Over-roofed"
is the term he invariably uses of anything--rock, house, or wave--that nods over at the brow;
the other terms need no explanation; they are as accurate and intense in truth as words can
be, but they never show the slightest feeling of anything animated in the ocean. Black or clear,
monstrous or violet-coloured, cold salt water it is always, and nothing but that.

"Well, but the modern writer, by his admission of the tinge of fallacy, has given an idea of
something in the action of the wave which Homer could not, and surely, therefore, has made
a step in advance? Also there appears to be a degree of sympathy and feeling in the one writer,
which there is not in the other; and as it has been received for a first principle that writers
are great in, proportion to the intensity of their feelings, and Homer seems to have no feelings
about the sea but that it is black and deep, surely in this respect also the modern writer
is the greater?"

Stay a moment. Homer had some feeling about the sea; a faith in the animation of it much stronger
than Keats's. But all this sense of something living in it, he separates in his mind into a
great abstract image of a Sea Power. He never says the waves rage, or the waves are idle. But
he says there is somewhat in, and greater than, the waves, which rages, and is idle, and that
he calls a god.

I do not think we ever enough endeavour to enter into what a Greek's real notion of a god was.
We are so accustomed to the modern mockeries of the classical religion, so accustomed to hear
and see the Greek gods introduced as living personages, or invoked for help, by men who believe
neither in them nor in any other gods, that we seem to have infected the Greek ages themselves
with the breath, and dimmed them with the shade, of our hypocrisy; and are apt to think that
Homer, as we know that Pope, was merely an ingenious fabulist; nay, more than this, that all
the nations of past time were ingenious fabulists also, to whom the universe was a lyrical
drama, and by whom whatsoever was said about it was merely a witty allegory, or a graceful
lie, of which the entire upshot and consummation was a pretty statue in the middle of the court,
or at the end of the garden.

This, at least, is one of our forms of opinion about Greek faith; not, indeed, possible altogether
to any man of honesty or ordinary powers of thought; but still so venomously inherent in the
modern philosophy that all the pure lightning of Carlyle cannot as yet quite burn it out of
any of us. And then, side by side with this mere infidel folly, stands the bitter short-sightedness
of Puritanism, holding the classical god to be either simply an idol,--a block of stone ignorantly,
though sincerely, worshipped--or else an actual diabolic or betraying power, usurping the place
of God.

Both these Puritanical estimates of Greek deity are of course to some extent true. The corruption
of classical worship is barren idolatry; and that corruption was deepened, and variously directed
to their own purposes, by the evil angels. But this was neither the whole, nor the principal
part, of Pagan worship. Pallas was not, in the pure Greek mind, merely a powerful piece of
ivory in a temple at Athens; neither was the choice of Leonidas between the alternatives granted
him by the oracle, of personal death, or ruin to his country, altogether a work of the Devil's
prompting.

What, then, was actually the Greek god? In what way were these two ideas of human form, and
divine power, credibly associated in the ancient heart, so as to become a subject of true faith
irrespective equally of fable, allegory, superstitious trust in stone, and demoniacal influence?

It seems to me that the Greek had exactly the same instinctive feeling about the elements that
we have ourselves; that to Homer, as much as to Casimir de la Vigne,[75] fire seemed ravenous
and pitiless; to Homer, as much as to Keats, the sea-wave appeared wayward or idle, or whatever
else it may be to the poetical passion. But then the Greek reasoned upon this sensation, saying
to himself: "I can light the fire, and put it out; I can dry this water up, or drink it. It
cannot be the fire or the water that rages, or that is wayward. But it must be something in
this fire and in the water, which I cannot destroy by extinguishing the one, or evaporating
the other, any more than I destroy myself by cutting off my finger; I was in my finger,--something
of me at least was; I had a power over it and felt pain in it, though I am still as much myself
when it is gone. So there may be a power in the water which is not water, but to which the
water is as a body;--which can strike with it, move in it, suffer in it, yet not be destroyed
with it. This something, this Great Water Spirit, I must not confuse with the waves, which
are only its body. They may flow hither and thither, increase or diminish. That must be invisible--imperishable--a
god. So of fire also; those rays which I can stop, and in the midst of which I cast a shadow,
cannot be divine, nor greater than I. They cannot feel, but there may be something in them
that feels,--a glorious intelligence, as much nobler and more swift than mine, as these rays,
which are its body, are nobler and swifter than my flesh;--the spirit of all light, and truth,
and melody, and revolving hours."

It was easy to conceive, farther, that such spirits should be able to assume at will a human
form, in order to hold intercourse with men, or to perform any act for which their proper body,
whether of fire, earth, or air, was unfitted. And it would have been to place them beneath,
instead of above, humanity, if, assuming the form of man, they could not also have tasted his
pleasures. Hence the easy step to the more or less material ideas of deities, which are apt
at first to shock us, but which are indeed only dishonourable so far as they represent the
gods as false and unholy. It is not the materialism, but the vice, which degrades the conception;
for the materialism itself is never positive or complete. There is always some sense of exaltation
in the spiritual and immortal body; and of a power proceeding from the visible form through
all the infinity of the element ruled by the particular god. The precise nature of the idea
is well seen in the passage of the Iliad which describes the river Scamander defending the
Trojans against Achilles.[76] In order to remonstrate with the hero, the god assumes a human
form, which nevertheless is in some way or other instantly recognized by Achilles as that of
the river-god: it is addressed at once as a river, not as a man; and its voice is the voice
of a river "out of the deep whirlpools."[77] Achilles refuses to obey its commands; and from
the human form it returns instantly into its natural or divine one, and endeavours to overwhelm
him with waves. Vulcan defends Achilles, and sends fire against the river, which suffers in
its water-body, till it is able to bear no more. At last even the "nerve of the river," or
"strength of the river" (note the expression), feels the fire, and this "strength of the river"
addresses Vulcan in supplications for respite. There is in this precisely the idea of a vital
part of the river-body, which acted and felt, and which, if the fire reached, it was death,
just as would be the case if it touched a vital part of the human body. Throughout the passage
the manner of conception is perfectly clear and consistent; and if, in other places, the exact
connection between the ruling spirit and the thing ruled is not so manifest, it is only because
it is almost impossible for the human mind to dwell long upon such subjects without falling
into inconsistencies, and gradually slackening its effort to grasp the entire truth; until
the more spiritual part of it slips from its hold, and only the human form of the god is left,
to be conceived and described as subject to all the errors of humanity. But I do not believe
that the idea ever weakens itself down to mere allegory. When Pallas is said to attack and
strike down Mars, it does not mean merely that Wisdom at that moment prevailed against Wrath.
It means that there are, indeed, two great spirits, one entrusted to guide the human soul to
wisdom and chastity, the other to kindle wrath and prompt to battle. It means that these two
spirits, on the spot where, and at the moment when, a great contest was to be decided between
all that they each governed in man, then and there (assumed) human form, and human weapons,
and did verily and materially strike at each other, until the Spirit of Wrath was crushed.
And when Diana is said to hunt with her nymphs in the woods, it does not mean merely, as Wordsworth
puts it,[78] that the poet or shepherd saw the moon and stars glancing between the branches
of the trees, and wished to say so figuratively. It means that there is a living spirit, to
which the light of the moon is a body; which takes delight in glancing between the clouds and
following the wild beasts as they wander through the night; and that this spirit sometimes
assumes a perfect human form, and in this form, with real arrows, pursues and slays the wild
beasts, which with its mere arrows of moonlight it could not slay; retaining, nevertheless,
all the while, its power and being in the moonlight, and in all else that it rules.

There is not the smallest inconsistency or unspirituality in this conception. If there were,
it would attach equally to the appearance of the angels to Jacob, Abraham, Joshua, or Manoah.[79]
In all those instances the highest authority which governs our own faith requires us to conceive
divine power clothed with a human form (a form so real that it is recognized for superhuman
only by its "doing wondrously"), and retaining, nevertheless, sovereignty and omnipresence
in all the world. This is precisely, as I understand it, the heathen idea of a God; and it
is impossible to comprehend any single part of the Greek mind until we grasp this faithfully,
not endeavouring to explain it away in any wise, but accepting, with frank decision and definition,
the tangible existence of its deities;--blue-eyed--white-fleshed-- human-hearted,--capable
at their choice of meeting man absolutely in his own nature--feasting with him--talking with
him--fighting with him, eye to eye, or breast to breast, as Mars with Diomed;[80] or else,
dealing with him in a more retired spirituality, as Apollo sending the plague upon the Greeks,[81]
when his quiver rattles at his shoulders as he moves, and yet the darts sent forth of it strike
not as arrows, but as plague; or, finally, retiring completely into the material universe which
they properly inhabit, and dealing with man through that, as Scamander with Achilles, through
his waves.

Nor is there anything whatever in the various actions recorded of the gods, however apparently
ignoble, to indicate weakness of belief in them. Very frequently things which appear to us
ignoble are merely the simplicities of a pure and truthful age. When Juno beats Diana about
the ears with her own quiver,[82] for instance, we start at first, as if Homer could not have
believed that they were both real goddesses. But what should Juno have done? Killed Diana with
a look? Nay, she neither wished to do so, nor could she have done so, by the very faith of
Diana's goddess-ship. Diana is as immortal as herself. Frowned Diana into submission? But Diana
has come expressly to try conclusions with her, and will by no means be frowned into submission.
Wounded her with a celestial lance? That sounds more poetical, but it is in reality partly
more savage and partly more absurd, than Homer. More savage, for it makes Juno more cruel,
therefore less divine; and more absurd, for it only seems elevated in tone, because we use
the word "celestial," which means nothing. What sort of a thing is a "celestial" lance? Not
a wooden one. Of what then? Of moonbeams, or clouds, or mist. Well, therefore, Diana's arrows
were of mist too; and her quiver, and herself, and Juno, with her lance, and all, vanish into
mist. Why not have said at once, if that is all you mean, that two mists met, and one drove
the other back? That would have been rational and intelligible, but not to talk of celestial
lances. Homer had no such misty fancy; he believed the two goddesses were there in true bodies,
with true weapons, on the true earth; and still I ask, what should Juno have done? Not beaten
Diana? No; for it is unlady-like. Un-English-lady-like, yes; but by no means un-Greek-lady-like,
nor even un-natural-lady-like. If a modern lady does not beat her servant or her rival about
the ears, it is oftener because she is too weak, or too proud, than because she is of purer
mind than Homer's Juno. She will not strike them; but she will overwork the one or slander
the other without pity; and Homer would not have thought that one whit more goddess-like than
striking them with her open hand.

If, however, the reader likes to suppose that while the two goddesses in personal presence
thus fought with arrow and quiver, there was also a broader and vaster contest supposed by
Homer between the elements they ruled; and that the goddess of the heavens, as she struck the
goddess of the moon on the flushing cheek, was at the same instant exercising omnipresent power
in the heavens themselves, and gathering clouds, with which, filled with the moon's own arrows
or beams, she was encumbering and concealing the moon; he is welcome to this out carrying of
the idea, provided that he does not pretend to make it an interpretation instead of a mere
extension, nor think to explain away my real, running, beautiful beaten Diana, into a moon
behind clouds.[83]

It is only farther to be noted, that the Greek conception of Godhead, as it was much more real
than we usually suppose, so it was much more bold and familiar than to a modern mind would
be possible. I shall have something more to observe, in a little while, of the danger of our
modern habit of endeavouring to raise ourselves to something like comprehension of the truth
of divinity, instead of simply believing the words in which the Deity reveals Himself to us.
The Greek erred rather on the other side, making hardly any effort to conceive divine mind
as above the human; and no more shrinking from frank intercourse with a divine being, or dreading
its immediate presence, than that of the simplest of mortals. Thus Atrides, enraged at his
sword's breaking in his hand upon the helmet of Paris, after he had expressly invoked the assistance
of Jupiter, exclaims aloud, as he would to a king who had betrayed him, "Jove, Father, there
is not another god more evil-minded than thou!"[84] and Helen, provoked at Paris's defeat,
and oppressed with pouting shame both for him and for herself, when Venus appears at her side,
and would lead her back to the delivered Paris, impatiently tells the goddess to "go and take
care of Paris herself."[85]

The modern mind is naturally, but vulgarly and unjustly, shocked by this kind of familiarity.
Rightly understood, it is not so much a sign of misunderstanding of the divine nature as of
good understanding of the human. The Greek lived, in all things, a healthy, and, in a certain
degree, a perfect life. He had no morbid or sickly feeling of any kind. He was accustomed to
face death without the slightest shrinking, to undergo all kinds of bodily hardship without
complaint, and to do what he supposed right and honourable, in most cases, as a matter of course.
Confident of his own immortality, and of the power of abstract justice, he expected to be dealt
with in the next world as was right, and left the matter much in his god's hands; but being
thus immortal, and finding in his own soul something which it seemed quite as difficult to
master, as to rule the elements, he did not feel that it was an appalling superiority in those
gods to have bodies of water, or fire, instead of flesh, and to have various work to do among
the clouds and waves, out of his human way; or sometimes, even in a sort of service to himself.
Was not the nourishment of herbs and flowers a kind of ministering to his wants; were not the
gods in some sort his husbandmen, and spirit-servants? Their mere strength or omnipresence
did not seem to him a distinction absolutely terrific. It might be the nature of one being
to be in two places at once, and of another to be only in one; but that did not seem of itself
to infer any absolute lordliness of one nature above the other, any more than an insect must
be a nobler creature than a man, because it can see on four sides of its head, and the man
only in front. They could kill him or torture him, it was true; but even that not unjustly,
or not for ever. There was a fate, and a Divine Justice, greater than they; so that if they
did wrong, and he right, he might fight it out with them, and have the better of them at last.
In a general way, they were wiser, stronger, and better than he; and to ask counsel of them,
to obey them, to sacrifice to them, to thank them for all good, this was well: but to be utterly
downcast before them, or not to tell them his mind in plain Greek if they seemed to him to
be conducting themselves in an ungodly manner--this would not be well.

Such being their general idea of the gods, we can now easily understand the habitual tone of
their feelings towards what was beautiful in nature. With us, observe, the idea of the Divinity
is apt to get separated from the life of nature; and imagining our God upon a cloudy throne,
far above the earth, and not in the flowers or waters, we approach those visible things with
a theory that they are dead; governed by physical laws, and so forth. But coming to them, we
find the theory fail; that they are not dead; that, say what we choose about them, the instinctive
sense of their being alive is too strong for us; and in scorn of all physical law, the wilful
fountain sings, and the kindly flowers rejoice. And then, puzzled, and yet happy; pleased,
and yet ashamed of being so; accepting sympathy from nature which we do not believe it gives,
and giving sympathy to nature, which we do not believe it receives,--mixing, besides, all manner
of purposeful play and conceit with these involuntary fellowships,--we fall necessarily into
the curious web of hesitating sentiment, pathetic fallacy, and wandering fancy, which form
a great part of our modern view of nature. But the Greek never removed his god out of nature
at all; never attempted for a moment to contradict his instinctive sense that God was everywhere.
"The tree is glad," said he, "I know it is; I can cut it down: no matter, there was a nymph
in it. The water does sing," said he; "I can dry it up; but no matter, there was a naiad in
it." But in thus clearly defining his belief, observe, he threw it entirely into a human form,
and gave his faith to nothing but the image of his own humanity. What sympathy and fellowship
he had, were always for the spirit in the stream, not for the stream; always for the dryad
in the wood, not for the wood. Content with this human sympathy, he approached the actual waves
and woody fibres with no sympathy at all. The spirit that ruled them, he received as a plain
fact. Them, also, ruled and material, he received as plain facts; they, without their spirit,
were dead enough. A rose was good for scent, and a stream for sound and coolness; for the rest,
one was no more than leaves, the other no more than water; he could not make anything else
of them; and the divine power, which was involved in their existence, having been all distilled
away by him into an independent Flora or Thetis, the poor leaves or waves were left, in mere
cold corporealness, to make the most of their being discernibly red and soft, clear and wet,
and unacknowledged in any other power whatsoever.

Then, observe farther, the Greeks lived in the midst of the most beautiful nature, and were
as familiar with blue sea, clear air, and sweet outlines of mountain, as we are with brick
walls, black smoke, and level fields. This perfect familiarity rendered all such scenes of
natural beauty unexciting, if not indifferent to them, by lulling and overwearying the imagination
as far as it was concerned with such things; but there was another kind of beauty which they
found it required effort to obtain, and which, when thoroughly obtained, seemed more glorious
than any of this wild loveliness--the beauty of the human countenance and form. This, they
perceived, could only be reached by continual exercise of virtue; and it was in Heaven's sight,
and theirs, all the more beautiful because it needed this self-denial to obtain it. So they
set themselves to reach this, and having gained it, gave it their principal thoughts, and set
it off with beautiful dress as best they might. But making this their object, they were obliged
to pass their lives in simple exercise and disciplined employments. Living wholesomely, giving
themselves no fever fits, either by fasting or over-eating, constantly in the open air, and
full of animal spirit and physical power, they became incapable of every morbid condition of
mental emotion. Unhappy love, disappointed ambition, spiritual despondency, or any other disturbing
sensation, had little power over the well-braced nerves, and healthy flow of the blood; and
what bitterness might yet fasten on them was soon boxed or raced out of a boy, and spun or
woven out of a girl, or danced out of both. They had indeed their sorrows, true and deep, but
still, more like children's sorrows than ours, whether bursting into open cry of pain, or hid
with shuddering under the veil, still passing over the soul as clouds do over heaven, not sullying
it, not mingling with it;--darkening it perhaps long or utterly, but still not becoming one
with it, and for the most part passing away in dashing rain of tears, and leaving the man unchanged;
in no wise affecting, as our sorrow does, the whole tone of his thought and imagination thenceforward.

How far our melancholy may be deeper and wider than theirs in its roots and view, and therefore
nobler, we shall consider presently; but at all events, they had the advantage of us in being
entirely free from all those dim and feverish sensations which result from unhealthy state
of the body. I believe that a large amount of the dreamy and sentimental sadness, tendency
to reverie, and general patheticalness of modern life results merely from derangement of stomach;
holding to the Greek life the same relation that the feverish night of an adult does to a child's
sleep.

Farther. The human beauty, which, whether in its bodily being or in imagined divinity, had
become, for the reasons we have seen, the principal object of culture and sympathy to these
Greeks, was, in its perfection, eminently orderly, symmetrical, and tender. Hence, contemplating
it constantly in this state, they could not but feel a proportionate fear of all that was disorderly,
unbalanced, and rugged. Having trained their stoutest soldiers into a strength so delicate
and lovely, that their white flesh, with their blood upon it, should look like ivory stained
with purple;[86] and having always around them, in the motion and majesty of this beauty, enough
for the full employment of their imagination, they shrank with dread or hatred from all the
ruggedness of lower nature,--from the wrinkled forest bark, the jagged hill-crest, and irregular,
inorganic storm of sky; looking to these for the most part as adverse powers, and taking pleasure
only in such portions of the lower world as were at once conducive to the rest and health of
the human frame, and in harmony with the laws of its gentler beauty.

Thus, as far as I recollect, without a single exception, every Homeric landscape, intended
to be beautiful, is composed of a fountain, a meadow, and a shady grove. This ideal is very
interestingly marked, as intended for a perfect one, in the fifth book of the Odyssey; when
Mercury himself stops for a moment, though on a message, to look at a landscape "which even
an immortal might be gladdened to behold."[87] This landscape consists of a cave covered with
a running vine, all blooming into grapes, and surrounded by a grove of alder, poplar, and sweet-smelling
cypress. Four fountains of white (foaming) water, springing in succession (mark the orderliness),
and close to one another, flow away in different directions, through a meadow full of violets
and parsley (parsley, to mark its moisture, being elsewhere called "marsh-nourished," and associated
with the lotus[88]); the air is perfumed not only by these violets, and by the sweet cypress,
but by Calypso's fire of finely chopped cedar-wood, which sends a smoke, as of incense, through
the island; Calypso herself is singing; and finally, upon the trees are resting, or roosting,
owls, hawks, and "long-tongued sea-crows." Whether these last are considered as a part of the
ideal landscape, as marine singing birds, I know not; but the approval of Mercury appears to
be elicited chiefly by the fountains and violet meadow.

Now the notable things in this description are, first, the evident subservience of the whole
landscape to human comfort, to the foot, the taste, or the smell; and, secondly, that throughout
the passage there is not a single figurative word expressive of the things being in any wise
other than plain grass, fruit, or flower. I have used the term "spring" of the fountains, because,
without doubt, Homer means that they sprang forth brightly, having their source at the foot
of the rocks (as copious fountains nearly always have); but Homer does not say "spring," he
says simply flow, and uses only one word for "growing softly," or "richly," of the tall trees,
the vine, and the violets. There is, however, some expression of sympathy with the sea-birds;
he speaks of them in precisely the same terms, as in other places of naval nations, saying
they "have care of the works of the sea."

If we glance through the references to pleasant landscape which occur in other parts of the
Odyssey, we shall always be struck by this quiet subjection of their every feature to human
service, and by the excessive similarity in the scenes. Perhaps the spot intended, after this,
to be most perfect, may be the garden of Alcinous, where the principal ideas are, still more
definitely, order, symmetry and fruitfulness;[89] the beds being duly ranged between rows of
vines, which, as well as the pear, apple, and fig trees, bear fruit continually, some grapes
being yet sour, while others are getting black; there are plenty of "orderly square beds of
herbs," chiefly leeks, and two fountains, one running through the garden, and one under the
pavement of the palace to a reservoir for the citizens. Ulysses, pausing to contemplate this
scene, is described nearly in the same terms as Mercury pausing to contemplate the wilder meadow;
and it is interesting to observe, that, in spite of all Homer's love of symmetry, the god's
admiration is excited by the free fountains, wild violets, and wandering vine; but the mortal's,
by the vines in rows, the leeks in beds, and the fountains in pipes.

Ulysses has, however, one touching reason for loving vines in rows. His father had given him
fifty rows for himself, when he was a boy, with corn between them (just as it now grows in
Italy). Proving his identity afterwards to his father, whom he finds at work in his garden,
"with thick gloves on, to keep his hands from the thorns," he reminds him of these fifty rows
of vines, and of the "thirteen pear-trees and ten apple-trees" which he had given him: and
Laertes faints upon his neck.[90]

If Ulysses had not been so much of a gardener, it might have been received as a sign of considerable
feeling for landscape beauty, that, intending to pay the very highest possible compliment to
the Princess Nausicaa (and having, indeed, the moment before gravely asked her whether she
was a goddess or not), he says that he feels, at seeing her, exactly as he did when he saw
the young palm tree growing at Apollo's shrine at Delos.[91] But I think the taste for trim
hedges and upright trunks has its usual influence over him here also, and that he merely means
to tell the princess that she is delightfully tall and straight.

The princess is, however, pleased by his address, and tells him to wait outside the town, till
she can speak to her father about him. The spot to which she directs him is another ideal piece
of landscape, composed of a "beautiful grove of aspen poplars, a fountain, and a meadow,"[92]
near the road-side: in fact, as nearly as possible such a scene as meets the eye of the traveller
every instant on the much-despised lines of road through lowland France; for instance, on the
railway between Arras and Amiens;--scenes, to my mind, quite exquisite in the various grouping
and grace of their innumerable poplar avenues, casting sweet, tremulous shadows over their
level meadows and labyrinthine streams. We know that the princess means aspen poplars, because
soon afterwards we find her fifty maid-servants at the palace, all spinning and in perpetual
motion, compared to the "leaves of the tall poplar"; and it is with exquisite feeling that
it is made afterwards[93] the chief tree in the groves of Proserpine; its light and quivering
leafage having exactly the melancholy expression of fragility, faintness, and inconstancy which
the ancients attributed to the disembodied spirit.[94] The likeness to the poplars by the streams
of Amiens is more marked still in the Iliad, where the young Simois, struck by Ajax, falls
to the earth "like an aspen that has grown in an irrigated meadow, smooth-trunked, the soft
shoots springing from its top, which some coach-making man has cut down with his keen iron,
that he may fit a wheel of it to a fair chariot, and it lies parching by the side of the stream."[95]
It is sufficiently notable that Homer, living in mountainous and rocky countries, dwells thus
delightedly on all the flat bits; and so I think invariably the inhabitants of mountain countries
do, but the inhabitants of the plains do not, in any similar way, dwell delightedly on mountains.
The Dutch painters are perfectly contented with their flat fields and pollards;[96] Rubens,
though he had seen the Alps, usually composes his landscapes of a hayfield or two, plenty of
pollards and willows, a distant spire, a Dutch house with a moat about it, a windmill, and
a ditch. The Flemish sacred painters are the only ones who introduce mountains in the distance,
as we shall see presently; but rather in a formal way than with any appearance of enjoyment.
So Shakspere never speaks of mountains with the slightest joy, but only of lowland flowers,
flat fields, and Warwickshire streams. And if we talk to the mountaineer, he will usually characterize
his own country to us as a "pays affreux," or in some equivalent, perhaps even more violent,
German term: but the lowland peasant does not think his country frightful; he either will have
no ideas beyond it, or about it; or will think it a very perfect country, and be apt to regard
any deviation from its general principle of flatness with extreme disfavour; as the Lincolnshire
farmer in Alton Locke: "I'll shaw 'ee some'at like a field o' beans, I wool--none o' this here
darned ups and downs o' hills, to shake a body's victuals out of his inwards--all so vlat as
a barn's vloor, for vorty mile on end--there's the country to live in!"[97]

I do not say whether this be altogether right (though certainly not wholly wrong), but it seems
to me that there must be in the simple freshness and fruitfulness of level land, in its pale
upright trees, and gentle lapse of silent streams, enough for the satisfaction of the human
mind in general; and I so far agree with Homer, that, if I had to educate an artist to the
full perception of the meaning of the word "gracefulness" in landscape, I should send him neither
to Italy nor to Greece, but simply to those poplar groves between Arras and Amiens.

But to return more definitely to our Homeric landscape. When it is perfect, we have, as in
the above instances, the foliage and meadows together; when imperfect, it is always either
the foliage or the meadow; pre-eminently the meadow, or arable field. Thus, meadows of asphodel
are prepared for the happier dead; and even Orion, a hunter among the mountains in his lifetime,
pursues the ghosts of beasts in these asphodel meadows after death.[98] So the sirens sing
in a meadow; [99] and throughout the Odyssey there is a general tendency to the depreciation
of poor Ithaca, because it is rocky, and only fit for goats, and has "no meadows";[100] for
which reason Telemachus refuses Atrides's present of horses, congratulating the Spartan king
at the same time on ruling over a plain which has "plenty of lotus in it, and rushes," with
corn and barley. Note this constant dwelling on the marsh plants, or, at least, those which
grow in flat and well-irrigated land, or beside streams: when Scamander, for instance, is restrained
by Vulcan, Homer says, very sorrowfully, that "all his lotus, and reeds, and rushes were burnt";[101]
and thus Ulysses, after being shipwrecked and nearly drowned, and beaten about the sea for
many days and nights, on raft and mast, at last getting ashore at the mouth of a large river,
casts himself down first upon its rushes, and then, in thankfulness, kisses the "corn-giving
land," as most opposed, in his heart, to the fruitless and devouring sea.[102]

In this same passage, also, we find some peculiar expressions of the delight which the Greeks
had in trees; for, when Ulysses first comes in sight of land, which gladdens him "as the reviving
of a father from his sickness gladdens his children," it is not merely the sight of the land
itself which gives him such pleasure, but of the "land and wood." Homer never throws away any
words, at least in such a place as this; and what in another poet would have been merely the
filling up of the deficient line with an otherwise useless word, is in him the expression of
the general Greek sense, that land of any kind was in no wise grateful or acceptable till there
was wood upon it (or corn; but the corn, in the flats, could not be seen so far as the black
masses of forest on the hill sides), and that, as in being rushy and corn-giving, the low land,
so in being woody, the high land was most grateful to the mind of the man who for days and
nights had been wearied on the engulphing sea. And this general idea of wood and corn, as the
types of the fatness of the whole earth, is beautifully marked in another place of the Odyssey,[103]
where the sailors in a desert island, having no flour of corn to offer as a meat offering with
their sacrifices, take the leaves of the trees, and scatter them over the burnt offering instead.

But still, every expression of the pleasure which Ulysses has in this landing and resting,
contains uninterruptedly the reference to the utility and sensible pleasantness of all things,
not to their beauty. After his first grateful kiss given to the corn-growing land, he considers
immediately how he is to pass the night; for some minutes hesitating whether it will be best
to expose himself to the misty chill from the river, or run the risk of wild beasts in the
wood. He decides for the wood, and finds in it a bower formed by a sweet and a wild olive tree,
interlacing their branches, or--perhaps more accurately translating Homer's intensely graphic
expression--"changing their branches with each other" (it is very curious how often, in an
entanglement of wood, one supposes the branches to belong to the wrong trees) and forming a
roof penetrated by neither rain, sun, nor wind. Under this bower Ulysses collects the "vain
(or frustrate) outpouring of the dead leaves"--another exquisite expression, used elsewhere
of useless grief or shedding of tears;--and, having got enough together, makes his bed of them,
and goes to sleep, having covered himself up with them, "as embers are covered up with ashes."[104]

Nothing can possibly be more intensely possessive of the facts than this whole passage: the
sense of utter deadness and emptiness, and frustrate fall in the leaves; of dormant life in
the human body,--the fire, and heroism, and strength of it, lulled under the dead brown heap,
as embers under ashes, and the knitting of interchanged and close strength of living boughs
above. But there is not the smallest apparent sense of there being beauty elsewhere than in
the human being. The wreathed wood is admired simply as being a perfect roof for it; the fallen
leaves only as being a perfect bed for it; and there is literally no more excitement of emotion
in Homer, as he describes them, nor does he expect us to be more excited or touched by hearing
about them, than if he had been telling us how the chambermaid at the Bull aired the four-poster,
and put on two extra blankets.

Now, exactly this same contemplation of subservience to human use makes the Greek take some
pleasure in rocks, when they assume one particular form, but one only--that of a cave. They
are evidently quite frightful things to him under any other condition, and most of all if they
are rough and jagged; but if smooth, looking "sculptured," like the sides of a ship, and forming
a cave or shelter for him, he begins to think them endurable. Hence, associating the ideas
of rich and sheltering wood, sea, becalmed and made useful as a port by protecting promontories
of rock, and smoothed caves or grottoes in the rocks themselves, we get the pleasantest idea
which the Greek could form of a landscape, next to a marsh with poplars in it; not, indeed,
if possible, ever to be without these last; thus, in commending the Cyclops' country as one
possessed of every perfection, Homer erst says: "They have soft marshy meadows near the sea,
and good, rich, crumbling, ploughing-land, giving fine deep crops, and vines always giving
fruit"; then, "a port so quiet, that they have no need of cables in it; and at the head of
the port, a beautiful clear spring just under a cave, and aspen poplars all round it."[105]

This, it will be seen, is very nearly Homer's usual "ideal"; but, going into the middle of
the island, Ulysses comes on a rougher and less agreeable bit, though still fulfilling certain
required conditions of endurableness; a "cave shaded with laurels,"[106] which, having no poplars
about it, is, however, meant to be somewhat frightful, and only fit to be inhabited by a Cyclops.
So in the country of the Læstrygons, Homer, preparing his reader gradually for something very
disagreeable, represents the rocks as bare and "exposed to the sun";[107] only with some smooth
and slippery roads over them, by which the trucks bring down wood from the higher hills. Any
one familiar with Swiss slopes of hills must remember how often he has descended, sometimes
faster than was altogether intentional, by these same slippery woodman's truck roads.

And thus, in general, whenever the landscape is intended to be lovely, it verges towards the
ploughed lands and poplars; or, at worst, to woody rocks; but, if intended to be painful, the
rocks are bare and "sharp." This last epithet, constantly used by Homer for mountains, does
not altogether correspond, in Greek, to the English term, nor is it intended merely to characterize
the sharp mountain summits; for it never would be applied simply to the edge or point of a
sword, but signifies rather "harsh," "bitter," or "painful," being applied habitually to fate,
death, and in Odyssey xi. 333, to a halter; and, as expressive of general objectionableness
and unpleasantness, to all high, dangerous, or peaked mountains, as the Maleian promontory
(a much-dreaded one), the crest of Parnassus, the Tereian mountain, and a grim or untoward,
though, by keeping off the force of the sea, protective, rock at the mouth of the Jardanus;
as well as habitually to inaccessible or impregnable fortresses built on heights.

In all this I cannot too strongly mark the utter absence of any trace of the feeling for what
we call the picturesque, and the constant dwelling of the writer's mind on what was available,
pleasant, or useful: his ideas respecting all landscape being not uncharacteristially summed,
finally, by Pallas herself; when, meeting Ulysses, who after his long wandering does not recognize
his own country, and meaning to describe it as politely and soothingly as possible, she says:[108]--"This
Ithaca of ours is, indeed, a rough country enough, and not good for driving in; but, still,
things might be worse: it has plenty of corn, and good wine, and always rain, and soft nourishing
dew; and it has good feeding for goats and oxen, and all manner of wood, and springs fit to
drink at all the year round."

We shall see presently how the blundering, pseudo-picturesque, pseudo-classical minds of Claude
and the Renaissance landscape-painters, wholly missing Homer's practical common sense, and
equally incapable of feeling the quiet natural grace and sweetness of his asphodel meadows,
tender aspen poplars, or running vines,--fastened on his ports and caves, as the only available
features of his scenery; and appointed the type of "classical landscape" thenceforward to consist
in a bay of insipid sea, and a rock with a hole through it.[109]

It may indeed be thought that I am assuming too hastily that this was the general view of the
Greeks respecting landscape, because it was Homer's. But I believe the true mind of a nation,
at any period, is always best ascertainable by examining that of its greatest men; and that
simpler and truer results will be attainable for us by simply comparing Homer, Dante, and Walter
Scott, than by attempting (what my limits must have rendered absurdly inadequate, and in which,
also, both my time and knowledge must have failed me) an analysis of the landscape in the range
of contemporary literature. All that I can do, is to state the general impression, which has
been made upon me by my desultory reading, and to mark accurately the grounds for this impression
in the works of the greatest men. Now it is quite true that in others of the Greeks, especially
in Æschylus and Aristophanes, there is infinitely more of modern feeling, of pathetic fallacy,
love of picturesque or beautiful form, and other such elements, than there is in Homer; but
then these appear to me just the parts of them which were not Greek, the elements of their
minds by which (as one division of the human race always must be with subsequent ones) they
are connected with the mediævals and moderns. And without doubt, in his influence over future
mankind, Homer is eminently the Greek of Greeks: if I were to associate any one with him it
would be Herodotus, and I believe all I have said of the Homeric landscape will be found equally
true of the Herodotean, as assuredly it will be of the Platonic;--the contempt, which Plato
sometimes expresses by the mouth of Socrates, for the country in general, except so far as
it is shady, and has cicadas and running streams to make pleasant noises in it, being almost
ludicrous. But Homer is the great type, and the more notable one because of his influence on
Virgil, and, through him, on Dante, and all the after ages: and, in like manner, if we can
get the abstract of mediæval landscape out of Dante, it will serve us as well as if we had
read all the songs of the troubadours, and help us to the farther changes in derivative temper,
down to all modern time.

I think, therefore, the reader may safely accept the conclusions about Greek landscape which
I have got for him out of Homer; and in these he will certainly perceive something very different
from the usual imaginations we form of Greek feelings. We think of the Greeks as poetical,
ideal, imaginative, in the way that a modern poet or novelist is; supposing that their thoughts
about their mythology and world were as visionary and artificial as ours are: but I think the
passages I have quoted show that it was not so, although it may be difficult for us to apprehend
the strange minglings in them of the elements of faith, which, in our days, have been blended
with other parts of human nature in a totally different guise. Perhaps the Greek mind may be
best imagined by taking, as its groundwork, that of a good, conscientious, but illiterate Scotch
Presbyterian Border farmer of a century or two back, having perfect faith in the bodily appearances
of Satan and his imps; and in all kelpies, brownies, and fairies. Substitute for the indignant
terrors in this man's mind, a general persuasion of the Divinity, more or less beneficent,
yet faultful, of all these beings; that is to say, take away his belief in the demoniacal malignity
of the fallen spiritual world, and lower, in the same degree, his conceptions of the angelical,
retaining for him the same firm faith in both; keep his ideas about flowers and beautiful scenery
much as they are,--his delight in regular ploughed land and meadows, and a neat garden (only
with rows of gooseberry bushes instead of vines), being, in all probability, about accurately
representative of the feelings of Ulysses; then, let the military spirit that is in him, glowing
against the Border forager, or the foe of old Flodden and Chevy-Chase,[110] be made more principal,
with a higher sense of nobleness in soldiership, not as a careless excitement, but a knightly
duty; and increased by high cultivation of every personal quality, not of mere shaggy strength,
but graceful strength, aided by a softer climate, and educated in all proper harmony of sight
and sound: finally, instead of an informed Christian, suppose him to have only the patriarchal
Jewish knowledge of the Deity, and even this obscured by tradition, but still thoroughly solemn
and faithful, requiring his continual service as a priest of burnt sacrifice and meat offering;
and I think we shall get a pretty close approximation to the vital being of a true old Greek;
some slight difference still existing in a feeling which the Scotch farmer would have of a
pleasantness in blue hills and running streams, wholly wanting in the Greek mind; and perhaps
also some difference of views on the subjects of truth and honesty. But the main points, the
easy, athletic, strongly logical and argumentative, yet fanciful and credulous, characters
of mind, would be very similar in both; and the most serious change in the substance of the
stuff among the modifications above suggested as necessary to turn the Scot into the Greek,
is that effect of softer climate and surrounding luxury, inducing the practice of various forms
of polished art,--the more polished, because the practical and realistic tendency of the Hellenic
mind (if my interpretation of it be right) would quite prevent it from taking pleasure in any
irregularities of form, or imitations of the weeds and wildnesses of that mountain nature with
which it thought itself born to contend. In its utmost refinement of work, it sought eminently
for orderliness; carried the principle of the leeks in squares, and fountains in pipes, perfectly
out in its streets and temples; formalized whatever decoration it put into its minor architectural
mouldings, and reserved its whole heart and power to represent the action of living men, or
gods, though not unconscious, meanwhile, of

    The simple, the sincere delight;
    The habitual scene of hill and dale;
    The rural herds, the vernal gale;
    The tangled vetches' purple bloom;
    The fragrance of the bean's perfume,--
    Theirs, theirs alone, who cultivate the soil,
    And drink the cup of thirst, and eat the bread of toil.[111]

  [74] Endymion, 2. 349-350.

  [75] See p. 68.

  [76] Iliad, 21. 212-360.

  [77] Compare Lay of the Last Minstrel, canto i. stanza 15, and
  canto v. stanza 2. In the first instance, the river-spirit is
  accurately the Homeric god, only Homer would have believed in
  it,--Scott did not, at least not altogether. [Ruskin.]

  [78] The Excursion, 4. 861-871.

  [79] Genesis xxviii, 12; xxxii, 1; xxii, 11; Joshua v, 13 ff.;
  Judges xiii, 3 ff.

  [80] Iliad, 5. 846.

  [81] Iliad, 1. 43.

  [82] Iliad, 21. 489 ff.

  [83] Compare the exquisite lines of Longfellow on the sunset in
  The Golden Legend:--

  The day is done; and slowly from the scene
  The stooping sun up-gathers his spent shafts.
  And puts them back into his golden quiver. [Ruskin.]

  [84] Iliad, 3. 365.

  [85] Iliad, 3. 406 ff.

  [86] Iliad, 4. 141. [Ruskin.]

  [87] Odyssey, 5. 63-74.

  [88] Iliad, 2. 776. [Ruskin.]

  [89] Odyssey 7. 112-132.

  [90] Odyssey, 24. 334 ff.

  [91] Odyssey, 6. 162.

  [92] Odyssey, 6. 291-292.

  [93] Odyssey, 10. 510. [Ruskin.]

  [94] Compare the passage in Dante referred to above, p. 60.
  [Ruskin.]

  [95] Iliad, 4. 482-487.

  [96] Pollards, trees polled or cut back at some height above the
  ground, producing a thick growth of young branches in a rounded
  mass.

  [97] Quoted, with some omission, from chapter 12.

  [98] Odyssey, 11. 572; 24. 13. The couch of Ceres, with Homer's
  usual faithfulness, is made of a ploughed field, 5. 127.
  [Ruskin.]

  [99] Odyssey, 12. 45.

  [100] Odyssey, 4. 605.

  [101] Iliad, 21. 351.

  [102] Odyssey, 5. 398, 463. [Ruskin.]

  [103] Odyssey, 12. 357. [Ruskin.]

  [104] Odyssey, 5. 481-493.

  [105] Odyssey, 9. 132, etc. Hence Milton's

  From haunted spring, and dale, Edged with poplar pale. [Ruskin.]

  Hymn on The Morning of Christ's Nativity, 184-185.

  [106] Odyssey, 9. 182.

  [107] Odyssey, 10. 87-88.

  [108] Odyssey, 13. 236, etc. [Ruskin.]

  [109] Educated, as we shall see hereafter, first in this school.
  Turner gave the hackneyed composition a strange power and
  freshness, in his Glaucus and Scylla. [Ruskin.]

  [110] Flodden, Flodden Field, a plain in Northumberland, famous as
  the battlefield where James IV of Scotland was defeated by an
  English army under the Earl of Surrey, Sept. 9, 1513. The sixth
  canto of Scott's Marmion gives a fairly accurate description of
  the action.

  Chevy-Chase, a famous old English ballad recounting the incidents
  of the battle of Otterburn [Aug. 19, 1388] in which the Scots under
  the Earl of Douglas defeated the English under the Percies.

  [111] Shenstone's Rural Elegance, 201 ff., quoted with some
  slight inaccuracies.

OF MODERN LANDSCAPE

VOLUME III, CHAPTER 16

We turn our eyes, therefore, as boldly and as quickly as may be, from these serene fields and
skies of mediæval art, to the most characteristic examples of modern landscape. And, I believe,
the first thing that will strike us, or that ought to strike us, is their cloudiness.

Out of perfect light and motionless air, we find ourselves on a sudden brought under sombre
skies, and into drifting wind; and, with fickle sunbeams flashing in our face, or utterly drenched
with sweep of rain, we are reduced to track the changes of the shadows on the grass, or watch
the rents of twilight through angry cloud. And we find that whereas all the pleasure of the
mediæval was in stability, definiteness, and luminousness, we are expected to rejoice in darkness,
and triumph in mutability; to lay the foundation of happiness in things which momentarily change
or fade; and to expect the utmost satisfaction and instruction from what it is impossible to
arrest, and difficult to comprehend.

We find, however, together with this general delight in breeze and darkness, much attention
to the real form of clouds, and careful drawing of effects of mist; so that the appearance
of objects, as seen through it, becomes a subject of science with us; and the faithful representation
of that appearance is made of primal importance, under the name of aërial perspective. The
aspects of sunset and sunrise, with all their attendant phenomena of cloud and mist, are watchfully
delineated; and in ordinary daylight landscape, the sky is considered of so much importance,
that a principal mass of foliage, or a whole foreground, is unhesitatingly thrown into shade
merely to bring out the form of a white cloud. So that, if a general and characteristic name
were needed for modern landscape art, none better could be invented than "the service of clouds."

And this name would, unfortunately, be characteristic of our art in more ways than one. In
the last chapter, I said that all the Greeks spoke kindly about the clouds, except Aristophanes;
and he, I am sorry to say (since his report is so unfavourable), is the only Greek who had
studied them attentively. He tells us, first, that they are "great goddesses to idle men";
then, that they are "mistresses of disputings, and logic, and monstrosities, and noisy chattering";
declares that whoso believes in their divinity must first disbelieve in Jupiter, and place
supreme power in the hands of an unknown god "Whirlwind"; and, finally, he displays their influence
over the mind of one of their disciples, in his sudden desire "to speak ingeniously concerning
smoke."[112]

There is, I fear, an infinite truth in this Aristophanic judgment applied to our modern cloud-worship.
Assuredly, much of the love of mystery in our romances, our poetry, our art, and, above all,
in our metaphysics, must come under that definition so long ago given by the great Greek, "speaking
ingeniously concerning smoke." And much of the instinct, which, partially developed in painting,
may be now seen throughout every mode of exertion of mind,--the easily encouraged doubt, easily
excited curiosity, habitual agitation, and delight in the changing and the marvellous, as opposed
to the old quiet serenity of social custom and religious faith,--is again deeply defined in
those few words, the "dethroning of Jupiter," the "coronation of the whirlwind."

Nor of whirlwind merely, but also of darkness or ignorance respecting all stable facts. That
darkening of the foreground to bring out the white cloud, is, in one aspect of it, a type of
the subjection of all plain and positive fact, to what is uncertain and unintelligible. And,
as we examine farther into the matter, we shall be struck by another great difference between
the old and modern landscape, namely, that in the old no one ever thought of drawing anything
but as well as he could. That might not be well, as we have seen in the case of rocks; but
it was as well as he could, and always distinctly. Leaf, or stone, or animal, or man, it was
equally drawn with care and clearness, and its essential characters shown. If it was an oak
tree, the acorns were drawn; if a flint pebble, its veins were drawn; if an arm of the sea,
its fish were drawn; if a group of figures, their faces and dresses were drawn--to the very
last subtlety of expression and end of thread that could be got into the space, far off or
near. But now our ingenuity is all "concerning smoke." Nothing is truly drawn but that; all
else is vague, slight, imperfect; got with as little pains as possible. You examine your closest
foreground, and find no leaves; your largest oak, and find no acorns; your human figure, and
find a spot of red paint instead of a face; and in all this, again and again, the Aristophanic
words come true, and the clouds seem to be "great goddesses to idle men."

The next thing that will strike us, after this love of clouds, is the love of liberty. Whereas
the mediæval was always shutting himself into castles, and behind fosses, and drawing brickwork
neatly, and beds of flowers primly, our painters delight in getting to the open fields and
moors; abhor all hedges and moats; never paint anything but free-growing trees, and rivers
gliding "at their own sweet will"; eschew formality down to the smallest detail; break and
displace the brickwork which the mediæval would have carefully cemented; leave unpruned the
thickets he would have delicately trimmed; and, carrying the love of liberty even to license,
and the love of wildness even to ruin, take pleasure at last in every aspect of age and desolation
which emancipates the objects of nature from the government of men;--on the castle wall displacing
its tapestry with ivy, and spreading, through the garden, the bramble for the rose.

Connected with this love of liberty we find a singular manifestation of love of mountains,
and see our painters traversing the wildest places of the globe in order to obtain subjects
with craggy foregrounds and purple distances. Some few of them remain content with pollards
and flat land; but these are always men of third-rate order; and the leading masters, while
they do not reject the beauty of the low grounds, reserve their highest powers to paint Alpine
peaks or Italian promontories. And it is eminently noticeable, also, that this pleasure in
the mountains is never mingled with fear, or tempered by a spirit of meditation, as with the
mediæval; but it is always free and fearless, brightly exhilarating, and wholly unreflective;
so that the painter feels that his mountain foreground may be more consistently animated by
a sportsman than a hermit; and our modern society in general goes to the mountains, not to
fast, but to feast, and leaves their glaciers covered with chicken-bones and egg-shells.

Connected with this want of any sense of solemnity in mountain scenery, is a general profanity
of temper in regarding all the rest of nature; that is to say, a total absence of faith in
the presence of any deity therein. Whereas the mediæval never painted a cloud, but with the
purpose of placing an angel in it; and a Greek never entered a wood without expecting to meet
a god in it; we should think the appearance of an angel in the cloud wholly unnatural, and
should be seriously surprised by meeting a god anywhere. Our chief ideas about the wood are
connected with poaching. We have no belief that the clouds contain more than so many inches
of rain or hail, and from our ponds and ditches expect nothing more divine than ducks and watercresses.

Finally: connected with this profanity of temper is a strong tendency to deny the sacred element
of colour, and make our boast in blackness. For though occasionally glaring or violent, modern
colour is on the whole eminently sombre, tending continually to grey or brown, and by many
of our best painters consistently falsified, with a confessed pride in what they call chaste
or subdued tints; so that, whereas a mediæval paints his sky bright blue and his foreground
bright green, gilds the towers of his castles, and clothes his figures with purple and white,
we paint our sky grey, our foreground black, and our foliage brown, and think that enough is
sacrificed to the sun in admitting the dangerous brightness of a scarlet cloak or a blue jacket.

These, I believe, are the principal points which would strike us instantly, if we were to be
brought suddenly into an exhibition of modern landscapes out of a room filled with mediæval
work. It is evident that there are both evil and good in this change; but how much evil, or
how much good, we can only estimate by considering, as in the former divisions of our inquiry,
what are the real roots of the habits of mind which have caused them.

And first, it is evident that the title "Dark Ages," given to the mediæval centuries, is, respecting
art, wholly inapplicable. They were, on the contrary, the bright ages; ours are the dark ones.
I do not mean metaphysically, but literally. They were the ages of gold; ours are the ages
of umber.

This is partly mere mistake in us; we build brown brick walls, and wear brown coats, because
we have been blunderingly taught to do so, and go on doing so mechanically. There is, however,
also some cause for the change in our own tempers. On the whole, these are much sadder ages
than the early ones; not sadder in a noble and deep way, but in a dim wearied way,--the way
of ennui, and jaded intellect, and uncomfortableness of soul and body. The Middle Ages had
their wars and agonies, but also intense delights. Their gold was dashed with blood; but ours
is sprinkled with dust. Their life was inwoven with white and purple: ours is one seamless
stuff of brown. Not that we are without apparent festivity, but festivity more or less forced,
mistaken, embittered, incomplete--not of the heart. How wonderfully, since Shakspere's time,
have we lost the power of laughing at bad jests! The very finish of our wit belies our gaiety.

The profoundest reason of this darkness of heart is, I believe, our want of faith. There never
yet was a generation of men (savage or civilized) who, taken as a body, so wofully fulfilled
the words "having no hope, and without God in the world,"[113] as the present civilized European
race. A Red Indian or Otaheitan savage has more sense of a Divine existence round him, or government
over him, than the plurality of refined Londoners and Parisians: and those among us who may
in some sense be said to believe, are divided almost without exception into two broad classes,
Romanist and Puritan; who, but for the interference of the unbelieving portions of society,
would, either of them, reduce the other sect as speedily as possible to ashes; the Romanist
having always done so whenever he could, from the beginning of their separation, and the Puritan
at this time holding himself in complacent expectation of the destruction of Rome by volcanic
fire. Such division as this between persons nominally of one religion, that is to say, believing
in the same God, and the same Revelation, cannot but become a stumbling-block of the gravest
kind to all thoughtful and far-sighted men,--a stumbling-block which they can only surmount
under the most favourable circumstances of early education. Hence, nearly all our powerful
men in this age of the world are unbelievers; the best of them in doubt and misery; the worst
in reckless defiance; the plurality, in plodding hesitation, doing, as well as they can, what
practical work lies ready to their hands. Most of our scientific men are in this last class;
our popular authors either set themselves definitely against all religious form, pleading for
simple truth and benevolence (Thackeray, Dickens), or give themselves up to bitter and fruitless
statement of facts (De Balzac), or surface-painting (Scott), or careless blasphemy, sad or
smiling (Byron, Béranger). Our earnest poets and deepest thinkers are doubtful and indignant
(Tennyson, Carlyle); one or two, anchored, indeed, but anxious or weeping (Wordsworth, Mrs.
Browning); and of these two, the first is not so sure of his anchor, but that now and then
it drags with him, even to make him cry out,--

                  Great God, I had rather be
    A Pagan suckled in some creed outworn;
      So might I, standing on this pleasant lea,
    Have glimpses that would make me less forlorn.[114]

In politics, religion is now a name; in art, a hypocrisy or affectation. Over German religious
pictures the inscription, "See how Pious I am," can be read at a glance by any clear-sighted
person. Over French and English religious pictures the inscription, "See how Impious I am,"
is equally legible. All sincere and modest art is, among us, profane.[115]

This faithlessness operates among us according to our tempers, producing either sadness or
levity, and being the ultimate root alike of our discontents and of our wantonnesses. It is
marvellous how full of contradiction it makes us: we are first dull, and seek for wild and
lonely places because we have no heart for the garden; presently we recover our spirits, and
build an assembly room among the mountains, because we have no reverence for the desert. I
do not know if there be game on Sinai, but I am always expecting to hear of some one's shooting
over it.

There is, however, another, and a more innocent root of our delight in wild scenery.

All the Renaissance principles of art tended, as I have before often explained, to the setting
Beauty above Truth, and seeking for it always at the expense of truth. And the proper punishment
of such pursuit--the punishment which all the laws of the universe rendered inevitable--was,
that those who thus pursued beauty should wholly lose sight of beauty. All the thinkers of
the age, as we saw previously, declared that it did not exist. The age seconded their efforts,
and banished beauty, so far as human effort could succeed in doing so, from the face of the
earth, and the form of man. To powder the hair, to patch the cheek, to hoop the body, to buckle
the foot, were all part and parcel of the same system which reduced streets to brick walls,
and pictures to brown stains. One desert of Ugliness was extended before the eyes of mankind;
and their pursuit of the beautiful, so recklessly continued, received unexpected consummation
in high-heeled shoes and periwigs,--Gower Street, and Gaspar Poussin.[116]

Reaction from this state was inevitable, if any true life was left in the races of mankind;
and, accordingly, though still forced, by rule and fashion, to the producing and wearing all
that is ugly, men steal out, half-ashamed of themselves for doing so, to the fields and mountains;
and, finding among these the colour, and liberty, and variety, and power, which are for ever
grateful to them, delight in these to an extent never before known; rejoice in all the wildest
shattering of the mountain side, as an opposition to Gower Street, gaze in a rapt manner at
sunsets and sunrises, to see there the blue, and gold, and purple, which glow for them no longer
on knight's armour or temple porch; and gather with care out of the fields, into their blotted
herbaria, the flowers which the five orders of architecture have banished from their doors
and casements.

The absence of care for personal beauty, which is another great characteristic of the age,
adds to this feeling in a twofold way: first, by turning all reverent thoughts away from human
nature; and making us think of men as ridiculous or ugly creatures, getting through the world
as well as they can, and spoiling it in doing so; not ruling it in a kingly way and crowning
all its loveliness. In the Middle Ages hardly anything but vice could be caricatured, because
virtue was always visibly and personally noble: now virtue itself is apt to inhabit such poor
human bodies, that no aspect of it is invulnerable to jest; and for all fairness we have to
seek to the flowers, for all sublimity, to the hills.

The same want of care operates, in another way, by lowering the standard of health, increasing
the susceptibility to nervous or sentimental impressions, and thus adding to the other powers
of nature over us whatever charm may be felt in her fostering the melancholy fancies of brooding
idleness.

It is not, however, only to existing inanimate nature that our want of beauty in person and
dress has driven us. The imagination of it, as it was seen in our ancestors, haunts us continually;
and while we yield to the present fashions, or act in accordance with the dullest modern principles
of economy and utility, we look fondly back to the manners of the ages of chivalry, and delight
in painting, to the fancy, the fashions we pretend to despise, and the splendours we think
it wise to abandon. The furniture and personages of our romance are sought, when the writer
desires to please most easily, in the centuries which we profess to have surpassed in everything;
the art which takes us into the present times is considered as both daring and degraded; and
while the weakest words please us, and are regarded as poetry, which recall the manners of
our forefathers, or of strangers, it is only as familiar and vulgar that we accept the description
of our own.

In this we are wholly different from all the races that preceded us. All other nations have
regarded their ancestors with reverence as saints or heroes; but have nevertheless thought
their own deeds and ways of life the fitting subjects for their arts of painting or of verse.
We, on the contrary, regard our ancestors as foolish and wicked, but yet find our chief artistic
pleasures in descriptions of their ways of life.

The Greeks and mediævals honoured, but did not imitate their forefathers; we imitate, but do
not honour.

With this romantic love of beauty, forced to seek in history, and in external nature, the satisfaction
it cannot find in ordinary life, we mingle a more rational passion, the due and just result
of newly awakened powers of attention. Whatever may first lead us to the scrutiny of natural
objects, that scrutiny never fails of its reward. Unquestionably they are intended to be regarded
by us with both reverence and delight; and every hour we give to them renders their beauty
more apparent, and their interest more engrossing. Natural science--which can hardly be considered
to have existed before modern times--rendering our knowledge fruitful in accumulation, and
exquisite in accuracy, has acted for good or evil, according to the temper of the mind which
received it; and though it has hardened the faithlessness of the dull and proud, has shown
new grounds for reverence to hearts which were thoughtful and humble. The neglect of the art
of war, while it has somewhat weakened and deformed the body,[117] has given us leisure and
opportunity for studies to which, before, time and space were equally wanting; lives which
once were early wasted on the battle-field are now passed usefully in the study; nations which
exhausted themselves in annual warfare now dispute with each other the discovery of new planets;
and the serene philosopher dissects the plants, and analyzes the dust, of lands which were
of old only traversed by the knight in hasty march, or by the borderer in heedless rapine.

The elements of progress and decline being thus strangely mingled in the modern mind, we might
beforehand anticipate that one of the notable characters of our art would be its inconsistency;
that efforts would be made in every direction, and arrested by every conceivable cause and
manner of failure; that in all we did, it would become next to impossible to distinguish accurately
the grounds for praise or for regret; that all previous canons of practice and methods of thought
would be gradually overthrown, and criticism continually defied by successes which no one had
expected, and sentiments which no one could define.

Accordingly, while, in our inquiries into Greek and mediæval art, I was able to describe, in
general terms, what all men did or felt, I find now many characters in many men; some, it seems
to me, founded on the inferior and evanescent principles of modernism, on its recklessness,
impatience, or faithlessness; others founded on its science, its new affection for nature,
its love of openness and liberty. And among all these characters, good or evil, I see that
some, remaining to us from old or transitional periods, do not properly belong to us, and will
soon fade away, and others, though not yet distinctly developed, are yet properly our own,
and likely to grow forward into greater strength.

For instance: our reprobation of bright colour is, I think, for the most part, mere affectation,
and must soon be done away with. Vulgarity, dulness, or impiety, will indeed always express
themselves through art in brown and grey, as in Rembrandt, Caravaggio, and Salvator; but we
are not wholly vulgar, dull, or impious; nor, as moderns, are we necessarily obliged to continue
so in any wise. Our greatest men, whether sad or gay, still delight, like the great men of
all ages, in brilliant hues. The colouring of Scott and Byron is full and pure; that of Keats
and Tennyson rich even to excess. Our practical failures in colouring are merely the necessary
consequences of our prolonged want of practice during the periods of Renaissance affectation
and ignorance; and the only durable difference between old and modern colouring, is the acceptance
of certain hues, by the modern, which please him by expressing that melancholy peculiar to
his more reflective or sentimental character, and the greater variety of them necessary to
express his greater science.

Again: if we ever become wise enough to dress consistently and gracefully, to make health a
principal object in education, and to render our streets beautiful with art, the external charm
of past history will in great measure disappear. There is no essential reason, because we live
after the fatal seventeenth century, that we should never again be able to confess interest
in sculpture, or see brightness in embroidery; nor, because now we choose to make the night
deadly with our pleasures, and the day with our labours, prolonging the dance till dawn, and
the toil to twilight, that we should never again learn how rightly to employ the sacred trusts
of strength, beauty, and time. Whatever external charm attaches itself to the past, would then
be seen in proper subordination to the brightness of present life; and the elements of romance
would exist, in the earlier ages, only in the attraction which must generally belong to whatever
is unfamiliar; in the reverence which a noble nation always pays to its ancestors; and in the
enchanted light which races, like individuals, must perceive in looking back to the days of
their childhood.

Again: the peculiar levity with which natural scenery Is regarded by a large number of modern
minds cannot be considered as entirely characteristic of the age, inasmuch as it never can
belong to its greatest intellects. Men of any high mental power must be serious, whether in
ancient or modern days: a certain degree of reverence for fair scenery is found in all our
great writers without exception,--even the one who has made us laugh oftenest, taking us to
the valley of Chamouni, and to the sea beach, there to give peace after suffering, and change
revenge into pity.[118] It is only the dull, the uneducated, or the worldly, whom it is painful
to meet on the hillsides; and levity, as a ruling character, cannot be ascribed to the whole
nation, but only to its holiday-making apprentices, and its House of Commons.

We need not, therefore, expect to find any single poet or painter representing the entire group
of powers, weaknesses, and inconsistent instincts which govern or confuse our modern life.
But we may expect that in the man who seems to be given by Providence as the type of the age
(as Homer and Dante were given, as the types of classical and mediæval mind), we shall find
whatever is fruitful and substantial to be completely present, together with those of our weaknesses,
which are indeed nationally characteristic, and compatible with general greatness of mind,
just as the weak love of fences, and dislike of mountains, were found compatible with Dante's
greatness in other respects.

Farther: as the admiration of mankind is found, in our times, to have in great part passed
from men to mountains, and from human emotion to natural phenomena, we may anticipate that
the great strength of art will also be warped in this direction; with this notable result for
us, that whereas the greatest painters or painter of classical and mediæval periods, being
wholly devoted to the representation of humanity, furnished us with but little to examine in
landscape, the greatest painters or painter of modern times will in all probability be devoted
to landscape principally: and farther, because in representing human emotion words surpass
painting, but in representing natural scenery painting surpasses words, we may anticipate also
that the painter and poet (for convenience' sake I here use the words in opposition) will somewhat
change their relations of rank in illustrating the mind of the age; that the painter will become
of more importance, the poet of less; and that the relations between the men who are the types
and firstfruits of the age in word and work,--namely, Scott and Turner,--will be, in many curious
respects, different from those between Homer and Phidias, or Dante and Giotto.[119]

  [112] Clouds, 316-318; 380 ff.; 320-321.

  [113] Ephesians ii, 12.

  [114] Wordsworth's "The world is too much with us."

  [115] Pre-Raphaelitism, of course, excepted, which is a new phase
  of art, in no wise considered in this chapter. Blake was sincere,
  but full of wild creeds, and somewhat diseased in brain. [Ruskin.]

  [116] Gower Street, a London street selected as typical of modern
  ugliness.

  Gaspar Poussin [1613-75], a French landscape painter, of the
  pseudo-classical school.

  [117] Of course this is meant only of the modern citizen or
  country-gentleman, as compared with a citizen of Sparta or old
  Florence. I leave it to others to say whether the "neglect of the
  art of war" may or may not, in a yet more fatal sense, be predicated
  of the English nation. War, without art, we seem, with God's help,
  able still to wage nobly. [Ruskin.]

  [118] See David Copperfield, chap. 55 and 58. [Ruskin.]

  [119] Ruskin proceeds to discuss Scott as he has discussed Homer.
  The chapter on Turner that follows here is an almost equally good
  illustration of Ruskin's ideas.

THE TWO BOYHOODS

VOLUME V, PART 9, CHAPTER 9

Born half-way between the mountains and the sea--that young George of Castelfranco--of the
Brave Castle:--Stout George they called him, George of Georges, so goodly a boy he was--Giorgione.[120]

Have you ever thought what a world his eyes opened on--fair, searching eyes of youth? What
a world of mighty life, from those mountain roots to the shore;--of loveliest life, when he
went down, yet so young, to the marble city--and became himself as a fiery heart to it?

A city of marble, did I say? nay, rather a golden city, paved with emerald. For truly, every
pinnacle and turret glanced or glowed, overlaid with gold, or bossed with jasper. Beneath,
the unsullied sea drew in deep breathing, to and fro, its eddies of green wave. Deep-hearted,
majestic, terrible as the sea,--the men of Venice moved in sway of power and war; pure as her
pillars of alabaster, stood her mothers and maidens; from foot to brow, all noble, walked her
knights; the low bronzed gleaming of sea-rusted armour shot angrily under their blood-red mantle-folds.
Fearless, faithful, patient, impenetrable, implacable,--every word a fate--sate her senate.
In hope and honour, lulled by flowing of wave around their isles of sacred sand, each with
his name written and the cross graved at his side, lay her dead. A wonderful piece of world.
Rather, itself a world. It lay along the face of the waters, no larger, as its captains saw
it from their masts at evening, than a bar of sunset that could not pass away; but for its
power, it must have seemed to them as if they were sailing in the expanse of heaven, and this
a great planet, whose orient edge widened through ether. A world from which all ignoble care
and petty thoughts were banished, with all the common and poor elements of life. No foulness,
nor tumult, in those tremulous streets, that filled, or fell, beneath the moon; but rippled
music of majestic change, or thrilling silence. No weak walls could rise above them; no low-roofed
cottage, nor straw-built shed. Only the strength as of rock, and the finished setting of stones
most precious. And around them, far as the eye could reach, still the soft moving of stainless
waters, proudly pure; as not the flower, so neither the thorn nor the thistle, could grow in
the glancing fields. Ethereal strength of Alps, dreamlike, vanishing in high procession beyond
the Torcellan shore; blue islands of Paduan hills, poised in the golden west.

Such was Giorgione's school--such Titian's home. Access to the bottom of it is obtained out
of Maiden Lane, through a low archway and an iron gate; and if you stand long enough under
the archway to accustom your eyes to the darkness you may see on the left hand a narrow door,
which formerly gave quiet access to a respectable barber's shop, of which the front window,
looking into Maiden Lane, is still extant, filled, in this year (1860), with a row of bottles,
connected, in some defunct manner, with a brewer's business. A more fashionable neighbourhood,
it is said, eighty years ago than now--never certainly a cheerful one--wherein a boy being
born on St. George's day, 1775, began soon after to take interest in the world of Covent Garden,
and put to service such spectacles of life as it afforded.

No knights to be seen there, nor, I imagine, many beautiful ladies; their costume at least
disadvantageous, depending much on incumbency of hat and feather, and short waists; the majesty
of men founded similarly on shoebuckles and wigs;--impressive enough when Reynolds will do
his best for it; but not suggestive of much ideal delight to a boy.

"Bello ovile dov' io dormii agnello";[121] of things beautiful, besides men and women, dusty
sunbeams up or down the street on summer mornings; deep furrowed cabbage-leaves at the greengrocer's;
magnificence of oranges in wheelbarrows round the corner; and Thames' shore within three minutes'
race.

None of these things very glorious; the best, however, that England, it seems, was then able
to provide for a boy of gift: who, such as they are, loves them--never, indeed, forgets them.
The short waists modify to the last his visions of Greek ideal. His foregrounds had always
a succulent cluster or two of greengrocery at the corners. Enchanted oranges gleam in Covent
Gardens of the Hesperides; and great ships go to pieces in order to scatter chests of them
on the waves.[122] That mist of early sunbeams in the London dawn crosses, many and many a
time, the clearness of Italian air; and by Thames' shore, with its stranded barges and glidings
of red sail, dearer to us than Lucerne lake or Venetian lagoon,--by Thames' shore we will die.

With such circumstance round him in youth, let us note what necessary effects followed upon
the boy. I assume him to have had Giorgione's sensibility (and more than Giorgione's, if that
be possible) to colour and form. I tell you farther, and this fact you may receive trustfully,
that his sensibility to human affection and distress was no less keen than even his sense for
natural beauty--heart-sight deep as eyesight.

Consequently, he attaches himself with the faithfullest child-love to everything that bears
an image of the place he was born in. No matter how ugly it is,--has it anything about it like
Maiden Lane, or like Thames' shore? If so, it shall be painted for their sake. Hence, to the
very close of life, Turner could endure ugliness which no one else, of the same sensibility,
would have borne with for an instant. Dead brick walls, blank square windows, old clothes,
market-womanly types of humanity--anything fishy and muddy, like Billingsgate or Hungerford
Market, had great attraction for him; black barges, patched sails, and every possible condition
of fog.

You will find these tolerations and affections guiding or sustaining him to the last hour of
his life; the notablest of all such endurances being that of dirt. No Venetian ever draws anything
foul; but Turner devoted picture after picture to the illustration of effects of dinginess,
smoke, soot, dust, and dusty texture; old sides of boats, weedy roadside vegetation, dunghills,
straw-yards, and all the soilings and stains of every common labour.

And more than this, he not only could endure, but enjoyed and looked for litter, like Covent
Garden wreck after the market. His pictures are often full of it, from side to side; their
foregrounds differ from all others in the natural way that things have of lying about in them.
Even his richest vegetation, in ideal work, is confused; and he delights in shingle, debris,
and heaps of fallen stones. The last words he ever spoke to me about a picture were in gentle
exultation about his St. Gothard: "that litter of stones which I endeavoured to represent."

The second great result of this Covent Garden training was understanding of and regard for
the poor, whom the Venetians, we saw, despised; whom, contrarily, Turner loved, and more than
loved--understood. He got no romantic sight of them, but an infallible one, as he prowled about
the end of his lane, watching night effects in the wintry streets; nor sight of the poor alone,
but of the poor in direct relations with the rich. He knew, in good and evil, what both classes
thought of, and how they dwelt with, each other.

Reynolds and Gainsborough, bred in country villages, learned there the country boy's reverential
theory of "the squire," and kept it. They painted the squire and the squire's lady as centres
of the movements of the universe, to the end of their lives. But Turner perceived the younger
squire in other aspects about his lane, occurring prominently in its night scenery, as a dark
figure, or one of two, against the moonlight. He saw also the working of city commerce, from
endless warehouse, towering over Thames, to the back shop in the lane, with its stale herrings--highly
interesting these last; one of his father's best friends, whom he often afterwards visited
affectionately at Bristol, being a fishmonger and glue-boiler; which gives us a friendly turn
of mind towards herring-fishing, whaling, Calais poissardes, and many other of our choicest
subjects in after life; all this being connected with that mysterious forest below London Bridge
on one side;--and, on the other, with these masses of human power and national wealth which
weigh upon us, at Covent Garden here, with strange compression, and crush us into narrow Hand
Court.

"That mysterious forest below London Bridge"--better for the boy than wood of pine, or grove
of myrtle. How he must have tormented the watermen, beseeching them to let him crouch anywhere
in the bows, quiet as a log, so only that he might get floated down there among the ships,
and round and round the ships, and with the ships, and by the ships, and under the ships, staring,
and clambering;--these the only quite beautiful things he can see in all the world, except
the sky; but these, when the sun is on their sails, filling or falling, endlessly disordered
by sway of tide and stress of anchorage, beautiful unspeakably; which ships also are inhabited
by glorious creatures--red-faced sailors, with pipes, appearing over the gunwales, true knights,
over their castle parapets--the most angelic beings in the whole compass of London world. And
Trafalgar happening long before we can draw ships, we, nevertheless, coax all current stories
out of the wounded sailors, do our best at present to show Nelson's funeral streaming up the
Thames; and vow that Trafalgar shall have its tribute of memory some day. Which, accordingly,
is accomplished--once, with all our might, for its death; twice, with all our might, for its
victory; thrice, in pensive farewell to the old Téméraire, and, with it, to that order of things.[123]

Now this fond companying with sailors must have divided his time, it appears to me, pretty
equally between Covent Garden and Wapping (allowing for incidental excursions to Chelsea on
one side, and Greenwich on the other), which time he would spend pleasantly, but not magnificently,
being limited in pocket-money, and leading a kind of "Poor-Jack" life on the river.

In some respects, no life could be better for a lad. But it was not calculated to make his
ear fine to the niceties of language, nor form his moralities on an entirely regular standard.
Picking up his first scraps of vigorous English chiefly at Deptford and in the markets, and
his first ideas of female tenderness and beauty among nymphs of the barge and the barrow,--another
boy might, perhaps, have become what people usually term "vulgar." But the original make and
frame of Turner's mind being not vulgar, but as nearly as possible a combination of the minds
of Keats and Dante, joining capricious waywardness, and intense openness to every fine pleasure
of sense, and hot defiance of formal precedent, with a quite infinite tenderness, generosity,
and desire of justice and truth--this kind of mind did not become vulgar, but very tolerant
of vulgarity, even fond of it in some forms; and on the outside, visibly infected by it, deeply
enough; the curious result, in its combination of elements, being to most people wholly incomprehensible.
It was as if a cable had been woven of blood-crimson silk, and then tarred on the outside.
People handled it, and the tar came off on their hands; red gleams were seen through the black,
underneath, at the places where it had been strained. Was it ochre?--said the world--or red lead?

Schooled thus in manners, literature, and general moral principles at Chelsea and Wapping,
we have finally to inquire concerning the most important point of all. We have seen the principal
differences between this boy and Giorgione, as respects sight of the beautiful, understanding
of poverty, of commerce, and of order of battle; then follows another cause of difference in
our training--not slight,--the aspect of religion, namely, in the neighbourhood of Covent Garden.
I say the aspect; for that was all the lad could judge by. Disposed, for the most part, to
learn chiefly by his eyes, in this special matter he finds there is really no other way of
learning. His father had taught him "to lay one penny upon another." Of mother's teaching,
we hear of none; of parish pastoral teaching, the reader may guess how much.

I chose Giorgione rather than Veronese to help me in carrying out this parallel; because I
do not find in Giorgione's work any of the early Venetian monarchist element. He seems to me
to have belonged more to an abstract contemplative school. I may be wrong in this; it is no
matter;--suppose it were so, and that he came down to Venice somewhat recusant, or insentient,
concerning the usual priestly doctrines of his day,--how would the Venetian religion, from
an outer intellectual standing-point, have looked to him?

He would have seen it to be a religion indisputably powerful in human affairs; often very harmfully
so; sometimes devouring widows' houses,[124] and consuming the strongest and fairest from among
the young; freezing into merciless bigotry the policy of the old: also, on the other hand,
animating national courage, and raising souls, otherwise sordid, into heroism: on the whole,
always a real and great power; served with daily sacrifice of gold, time, and thought; putting
forth its claims, if hypocritically, at least in bold hypocrisy, not waiving any atom of them
in doubt or fear; and, assuredly, in large measure, sincere, believing in itself, and believed:
a goodly system, moreover, in aspect; gorgeous, harmonious, mysterious;--a thing which had
either to be obeyed or combated, but could not be scorned. A religion towering over all the
city--many-buttressed--luminous in marble stateliness, as the dome of our Lady of Safety[125]
shines over the sea; many-voiced also, giving, over all the eastern seas, to the sentinel his
watchword, to the soldier his war-cry; and, on the lips of all who died for Venice, shaping
the whisper of death.

I suppose the boy Turner to have regarded the religion of his city also from an external intellectual
standing-point.

What did he see in Maiden Lane?

Let not the reader be offended with me; I am willing to let him describe, at his own pleasure,
what Turner saw there; but to me, it seems to have been this. A religion maintained occasionally,
even the whole length of the lane, at point of constable's staff; but, at other times, placed
under the custody of the beadle, within certain black and unstately iron railings of St. Paul's,
Covent Garden. Among the wheelbarrows and over the vegetables, no perceptible dominance of
religion; in the narrow, disquieted streets, none; in the tongues, deeds, daily ways of Maiden
Lane, little. Some honesty, indeed, and English industry, and kindness of heart, and general
idea of justice; but faith, of any national kind, shut up from one Sunday to the next, not
artistically beautiful even in those Sabbatical exhibitions; its paraphernalia being chiefly
of high pews, heavy elocution, and cold grimness of behaviour.

What chiaroscuro belongs to it--(dependent mostly on candlelight),--we will, however, draw
considerately; no goodliness of escutcheon, nor other respectability being omitted, and the
best of their results confessed, a meek old woman and a child being let into a pew, for whom
the reading by candlelight will be beneficial.[126]

For the rest, this religion seems to him discreditable--discredited--not believing in itself;
putting forth its authority in a cowardly way, watching how far it might be tolerated, continually
shrinking, disclaiming, fencing, finessing; divided against itself, not by stormy rents, but
by thin fissures, and splittings of plaster from the walls. Not to be either obeyed, or combated,
by an ignorant, yet clear-sighted youth: only to be scorned. And scorned not one whit the less,
though also the dome dedicated to it looms high over distant winding of the Thames; as St.
Mark's campanile rose, for goodly landmark, over mirage of lagoon. For St. Mark ruled over
life; the Saint of London over death; St. Mark over St. Mark's Place, but St. Paul over St.
Paul's Churchyard.

Under these influences pass away the first reflective hours of life, with such conclusion as
they can reach. In consequence of a fit of illness, he was taken--I cannot ascertain in what
year[127]--to live with an aunt, at Brentford; and here, I believe, received some schooling,
which he seems to have snatched vigorously; getting knowledge, at least by translation, of
the more picturesque classical authors, which he turned presently to use, as we shall see.
Hence also, walks about Putney and Twickenham in the summer time acquainted him with the look
of English meadow-ground in its restricted states of paddock and park; and with some round-headed
appearances of trees, and stately entrances to houses of mark: the avenue at Bushy, and the
iron gates and carved pillars of Hampton,[128] impressing him apparently with great awe and
admiration; so that in after life his little country house is,--of all places in the world,--at
Twickenham! Of swans and reedy shores he now learns the soft motion and the green mystery,
in a way not to be forgotten.

And at last fortune wills that the lad's true life shall begin; and one summer's evening, after
various wonderful stage-coach experiences on the north road, which gave him a love of stage-coaches
ever after, he finds himself sitting alone among the Yorkshire hills.[129] For the first time,
the silence of Nature round him, her freedom sealed to him, her glory opened to him. Peace
at last; no roll of cart-wheel, nor mutter of sullen voices in the back shop; but curlew-cry
in space of heaven, and welling of bell-toned streamlet by its shadowy rock. Freedom at last.
Dead-wall, dark railing, fenced field, gated garden, all passed away like the dream, of a prisoner;
and behold, far as foot or eye can race or range, the moor, and cloud. Loveliness at last.
It is here, then, among these deserted vales! Not among men. Those pale, poverty-struck, or
cruel faces;--that multitudinous, marred humanity--are not the only things that God has made.
Here is something He has made which no one has marred. Pride of purple rocks, and river pools
of blue, and tender wilderness of glittering trees, and misty lights of evening on immeasurable
hills.

Beauty, and freedom, and peace; and yet another teacher, graver than these. Sound preaching
at last here, in Kirkstall crypt, concerning fate and life. Here, where the dark pool reflects
the chancel pillars, and the cattle lie in unhindered rest, the soft sunshine on their dappled
bodies, instead of priests' vestments; their white furry hair ruffled a little, fitfully, by
the evening wind deep-scented from the meadow thyme.

Consider deeply the import to him of this, his first sight of ruin, and compare it with the
effect of the architecture that was around Giorgione. There were indeed aged buildings, at
Venice, in his time, but none in decay. All ruin was removed, and its place filled as quickly
as in our London; but filled always by architecture loftier and more wonderful than that whose
place it took, the boy himself happy to work upon the walls of it; so that the idea of the
passing away of the strength of men and beauty of their works never could occur to him sternly.
Brighter and brighter the cities of Italy had been rising and broadening on hill and plain,
for three hundred years. He saw only strength and immortality, could not but paint both; conceived
the form of man as deathless, calm with power, and fiery with life.

Turner saw the exact reverse of this. In the present work of men, meanness, aimlessness, unsightliness:
thin-walled, lath-divided, narrow-garreted houses of clay; booths of a darksome Vanity Fair,
busily base.

But on Whitby Hill, and by Bolton Brook,[130] remained traces of other handiwork. Men who could
build had been there; and who also had wrought, not merely for their own days. But to what
purpose? Strong faith, and steady hands, and patient souls--can this, then, be all you have
left! this the sum of your doing on the earth!--a nest whence the night-owl may whimper to
the brook, and a ribbed skeleton of consumed arches, looming above the bleak banks of mist,
from its cliff to the sea?

As the strength of men to Giorgione, to Turner their weakness and vileness, were alone visible.
They themselves, unworthy or ephemeral; their work, despicable, or decayed. In the Venetian's
eyes, all beauty depended on man's presence and pride; in Turner's, on the solitude he had
left, and the humiliation he had suffered.

And thus the fate and issue of all his work were determined at once. He must be a painter of
the strength of nature, there was no beauty elsewhere than in that; he must paint also the
labour and sorrow and passing away of men: this was the great human truth visible to him.

Their labour, their sorrow, and their death. Mark the three. Labour; by sea and land, in field
and city, at forge and furnace, helm and plough. No pastoral indolence nor classic pride shall
stand between him and the troubling of the world; still less between him and the toil of his
country,--blind, tormented, unwearied, marvellous England.

Also their Sorrow; Ruin of all their glorious work, passing away of their thoughts and their
honour, mirage of pleasure, FALLACY OF HOPE; gathering of weed on temple step; gaining of wave
on deserted strand; weeping of the mother for the children, desolate by her breathless first-born
in the streets of the city,[131] desolate by her last sons slain, among the beasts of the field.[132]

And their Death. That old Greek question again;--yet unanswered. The unconquerable spectre
still flitting among the forest trees at twilight; rising ribbed out of the sea-sand;--white,
a strange Aphrodite,--out of the sea-foam; stretching its grey, cloven wings among the clouds;
turning the light of their sunsets into blood. This has to be looked upon, and in a more terrible
shape than ever Salvator or Dürer saw it.[133] The wreck of one guilty country does not infer
the ruin of all countries, and need not cause general terror respecting the laws of the universe.
Neither did the orderly and narrow succession of domestic joy and sorrow in a small German
community bring the question in its breadth, or in any unresolvable shape, before the mind
of Dürer. But the English death--the European death of the nineteenth century--was of another
range and power; more terrible a thousandfold in its merely physical grasp and grief; more
terrible, incalculably, in its mystery and shame. What were the robber's casual pang, or the
range of the flying skirmish, compared to the work of the axe, and the sword, and the famine,
which was done during this man's youth on all the hills and plains of the Christian earth,
from Moscow to Gibraltar? He was eighteen years old when Napoleon came down on Arcola. Look
on the map of Europe and count the blood-stains on it, between Arcola and Waterloo.[134]

Not alone those blood-stains on the Alpine snow, and the blue of the Lombard plain. The English
death was before his eyes also. No decent, calculable, consoled dying; no passing to rest like
that of the aged burghers of Nuremberg town. No gentle processions to churchyards among the
fields, the bronze crests bossed deep on the memorial tablets, and the skylark singing above
them from among the corn. But the life trampled out in the slime of the street, crushed to
dust amidst the roaring of the wheel, tossed countlessly away into howling winter wind along
five hundred leagues of rock-fanged shore. Or, worst of all, rotted down to forgotten graves
through years of ignorant patience, and vain seeking for help from man, for hope in God--infirm,
imperfect yearning, as of motherless infants starving at the dawn; oppressed royalties of captive
thought, vague ague-fits of bleak, amazed despair.

A goodly landscape this, for the lad to paint, and under a goodly light. Wide enough the light
was, and clear; no more Salvator's lurid chasm on jagged horizon, nor Dürer's spotted rest
of sunny gleam on hedgerow and field; but light over all the world. Full shone now its awful
globe, one pallid charnel-house,--a ball strewn bright with human ashes, glaring in poised
sway beneath the sun, all blinding-white with death from pole to pole,--death, not of myriads
of poor bodies only, but of will, and mercy, and conscience; death, not once inflicted on the
flesh, but daily, fastening on the spirit; death, not silent or patient, waiting his appointed
hour, but voiceful, venomous; death with the taunting word, and burning grasp, and infixed sting.

"Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe."[135] The word is spoken in our ears continually
to other reapers than the angels,--to the busy skeletons that never tire for stooping. When
the measure of iniquity is full, and it seems that another day might bring repentance and redemption,--"Put
ye in the sickle." When the young life has been wasted all away, and the eyes are just opening
upon the tracks of ruin, and faint resolution rising in the heart for nobler things,--"Put
ye in the sickle." When the roughest blows of fortune have been borne long and bravely, and
the hand is just stretched to grasp its goal,--"Put ye in the sickle." And when there are but
a few in the midst of a nation, to save it, or to teach, or to cherish; and all its life is
bound up in those few golden ears,--"Put ye in the sickle, pale reapers, and pour hemlock for
your feast of harvest home."

This was the sight which opened on the young eyes, this the watchword sounding within the heart
of Turner in his youth.

So taught, and prepared for his life's labour, sate the boy at last alone among his fair English
hills; and began to paint, with cautious toil, the rocks, and fields, and trickling brooks,
and soft white clouds of heaven.

  [120] c. 1478-1511.

  [121] Dante, alluding to Florence, Paradiso, 25. 5. "From the
  fair sheepfold, where a lamb I slumbered." Longfellow's tr.

  [122] Allusions to pictures by Turner, The Garden of the
  Hesperides, and The Meuse: Orange-Merchantman going to pieces on
  the Bar.

  [123] The pictures referred to are: The Death of Nelson, The Battle
  of Trafalgar, and The Fighting Téméraire being towed to its Last
  Berth (see cut). The first and third are in the National Gallery,
  London.

  [124] Matthew xxiii, 14.

  [125] Santa Maria della Salute, a church conspicuously situated at
  the junction of the Grand Canal and the Giudecca.

  [126] Liber Studiorum. "Interior of a church." It is worthy of
  remark that Giorgione and Titian are always delighted to have an
  opportunity of drawing priests. The English Church may, perhaps,
  accept it as matter of congratulation that this is the only
  instance in which Turner drew a clergyman. [Ruskin.]

  [127] 1785.

  [128] Wolsey's famous palace, twelve miles from London.

  [129] I do not mean that this is his first acquaintance with the
  country, but the first impressive and touching one, after his mind
  was formed. The earliest sketches I found in the National
  Collection are at Clifton and Bristol; the next, at Oxford.
  [Ruskin.]

  [130] The reference is to the two famous ruined abbeys of
  Yorkshire--Whitby and Bolton.

  [131] The Tenth Plague of Egypt. [Ruskin.]

  [132] Rizpah, the Daughter of Aiah. [Ruskin.]

  [133] Dürer [1471-1528], German painter, engraver, and designer.
  Salvator [1615-73], Italian painter, etcher, satirical poet, and
  musical composer.

  [134] I.e., between November 17, 1796, and June 18, 1815.

  [135] Joel iii, 13.

SELECTIONS FROM

THE STONES OF VENICE

The first volume of The Stones of Venice appeared in March, 1851; the first day of May of the
same year we find the following entry in Ruskin's diary: "About to enter on the true beginning
of the second part of my Venetian work. May God help me to finish it--to His glory, and man's
good." The main part of the volume was composed at Venice in the winter of 1851-52, though
it did not appear until the end of July, 1853. His work on architecture, including The Seven
Lamps, it will be noted, intervenes between the composition of the second and third volumes
of Modern Painters; and Ruskin himself always looked upon the work as an interlude, almost
as an interruption. But he also came to believe that this digression had really led back to
the heart of the truth for all art. Its main theme, as in The Seven Lamps of Architecture,
is its illustration of the principle that architecture expresses certain states in the moral
temper of the people by and for whom it is produced. It may surprise us to-day to know that
when Ruskin wrote of the glories of Venetian architecture, the common "professional opinion
was that St. Mark's and the Ducal Palace were as ugly and repulsive as they were contrary to
rule and order." In a private letter Gibbon writes of the Square of St. Mark's as "a large
square decorated with the worst architecture I ever saw." The architects of his own time regarded
Ruskin's opinions as dictated by wild caprice, and almost evincing an unbalanced mind. Probably
the core of all this architectural work is to be found in his chapter "On the Nature of Gothic,"
in the main reproduced in this volume. And we find here again a point of fundamental significance--that
his artistic analysis led him inevitably on to social inquiries. He proved to himself that
the main virtue of Gothic lay in the unrestricted play of the individual imagination; that
the best results were produced when every artist was a workman and every workman an artist.
Twenty years after the publication of this book, he wrote in a private letter that his main
purpose "was to show the dependence of (architectural) beauty on the happiness and fancy of
the workman, and to show also that no architect could claim the title to authority of Magister
unless he himself wrought at the head of his men, captain of manual skill, as the best knight
is captain of armies." He himself called the chapter "precisely and accurately the most important
in the whole book." Mr. Frederic Harrison says that in it is "the creed, if it be not the origin,
of a new industrial school of thought."

  [136] The palace of the Camerlenghi, beside the Rialto, is a
  graceful work of the early Renaissance (1525) passing into Roman
  Renaissance. [Adapted from Ruskin.]

  [137] Signifying approximately "Keep to the right."

  [138] See note 1, p. 129.

  [139] Childe Harold, 4. 1.

  [140] Marino Faliero, 3. 1. 22 ff.

  [141] Dandolo [c. 1108-1205] and Foscari [1372-1457] were among the
  most famous of Venetian Doges.

  [142] In the battle of Custozza, 1848, the Austrians defeated the
  Piedmontese.

  [143] Acts xiii, 13 and xv, 38, 39. 2, p. 332,
  and the authorities quoted by him. [Ruskin.]

  [145] Venice, 1761 tom. 1, p. 126. [Ruskin.]

  [146] A wonderful City, such as was never seen before. [Ruskin.]

  [148] My authorities for this statement are given below, in the
  chapter on the Ducal Palace. [Ruskin.]

  [149] In the Chronicles, Sancti Marci Ducalis Cappdla. [Ruskin.]

  [151] Signed Bartolomeus Bozza, 1634, 1647, 1656, etc. [Ruskin.]

  [152] An obvious slip. The mosaic is on the west wall of the south
  transept. [Cook and Wedderburn.]

  [153] Guida di Venezia, p. 6. [Ruskin.]

  [154] Fritters and liquors for sale.

  [155] Antony and Cleopatra, 2. 5. 29.

  [156] Matthew xxi, 12 and John ii, 16.

And observe, you are put to stern choice in this matter.

We have much studied and much perfected, of late, the great civilized invention of the division
of labour; only we give it a false name. Now it is only by labour that thought can be made
healthy, and only by thought that labour can be made happy, and the two cannot be separated
with impunity. [Ruskin.]

  [158] Job xix, 26.

  [159] Matthew viii, 9.

  [160] Vide Preface to Fair Maid of Perth. [Ruskin.]

SELECTIONS FROM THE SEVEN LAMPS OF ARCHITECTURE

    This book began to assume shape in Ruskin's mind as early as 1846;
    he actually wrote it in the six months between November, 1848, and
    April, 1849. It is the first of five illustrated volumes embodying
    the results of seven years devoted to the study of the principles
    and ideals of Gothic Architecture, the other volumes being The
    Stones of Venice and Examples of the Architecture of Venice
    (1851). In the first edition of The Seven Lamps the plates were
    not only all drawn but also etched by his own hand. He is really applying here the same tests of truth and
    sincerity that he employed in Modern Painters. Chronologically,
    this volume and the others treating of architecture come between
    the composition of Volumes II and III of Modern Painters.
    Professor Charles Eliot Norton writes that the Seven Lamps is
    "the first treatise in English to teach the real significance of
    architecture as the most trustworthy record of the life and faith
    of nations." The following selections form the closing chapters of
    the volume, and have a peculiar interest as anticipating the
    social and political ideas which came to colour all his later
    work.

THE LAMP OF MEMORY

Among the hours of his life to which the writer looks back with peculiar gratitude, as having
been marked by more than ordinary fulness of joy or clearness of teaching, is one passed, now
some years ago, near time of sunset, among the broken masses of pine forest which skirt the
course of the Ain, above the village of Champagnole, in the Jura. It is a spot which has all
the solemnity, with none of the savageness, of the Alps; where there is a sense of a great
power beginning to be manifested in the earth, and of a deep and majestic concord in the rise
of the long low lines of piny hills; the first utterance of those mighty mountain symphonies,
soon to be more loudly lifted and wildly broken along the battlements of the Alps. But their
strength is as yet restrained; and the far reaching ridges of pastoral mountain succeed each
other, like the long and sighing swell which moves over quiet waters from some far off stormy
sea. And there is a deep tenderness pervading that vast monotony. The destructive forces and
the stern expression of the central ranges are alike withdrawn. No frost-ploughed, dust-encumbered
paths of ancient glacier fret the soft Jura pastures; no splintered heaps of ruin break the
fair ranks of her forest; no pale, defiled, or furious rivers rend their rude and changeful
ways among her rocks. Patiently, eddy by eddy, the clear green streams wind along their well-known
beds; and under the dark quietness of the undisturbed pines, there spring up, year by year,
such company of joyful flowers as I know not the like of among all the blessings of the earth.
It was spring time, too; and all were coming forth in clusters crowded for very love; there
was room enough for all, but they crushed their leaves into all manner of strange shapes only
to be nearer each other. There was the wood anemone, star after star, closing every now and
then into nebulae; and there was the oxalis, troop by troop, like virginal processions of the
Mois de Marie,[162] the dark vertical clefts in the limestone choked up with them as with heavy
snow, and touched with ivy on the edges--ivy as light and lovely as the vine; and, ever and
anon, a blue gush of violets, and cowslip bells in sunny places; and in the more open ground,
the vetch, and comfrey, and mezereon, and the small sapphire buds of the Polygala Alpina, and
the wild strawberry, just a blossom or two all showered amidst the golden softness of deep,
warm, amber-coloured moss. I came out presently on the edge of the ravine: the solemn murmur
of its waters rose suddenly from beneath, mixed with the singing of the thrushes among the
pine boughs; and, on the opposite side of the valley, walled all along as it was by grey cliffs
of limestone, there was a hawk sailing slowly off their brow, touching them nearly with his
wings, and with the shadows of the pines flickering upon his plumage from above; but with the
fall of a hundred fathoms under his breast, and the curling pools of the green river gliding
and glittering dizzily beneath him, their foam globes moving with him as he flew. It would
be difficult to conceive a scene less dependent upon any other interest than that of its own
secluded and serious beauty; but the writer well remembers the sudden blankness and chill which
were cast upon it when he endeavoured, in order more strictly to arrive at the sources of its
impressiveness, to imagine it, for a moment, a scene in some aboriginal forest of the New Continent.
The flowers in an instant lost their light, the river its music; the hills became oppressively
desolate; a heaviness in the boughs of the darkened forest showed how much of their former
power had been dependent upon a life which was not theirs, how much of the glory of the imperishable,
or continually renewed, creation is reflected from things more precious in their memories than
it, in its renewing. Those ever springing flowers and ever flowing streams had been dyed by
the deep colours of human endurance, valour, and virtue; and the crests of the sable hills
that rose against the evening sky received a deeper worship, because their far shadows fell
eastward over the iron wall of Joux, and the four-square keep of Granson.

It is as the centralization and protectress of this sacred influence, that Architecture is
to be regarded by us with the most serious thought. We may live without her, and worship without
her, but we cannot remember without her. How cold is all history, how lifeless all imagery,
compared to that which the living nation writes, and the uncorrupted marble bears!--how many
pages of doubtful record might we not often spare, for a few stones left one upon another!
The ambition of the old Babel builders was well directed for this world:[163] there are but
two strong conquerors of the forgetfulness of men, Poetry and Architecture; and the latter
in some sort includes the former, and is mightier in its reality: it is well to have, not only
what men have thought and felt, but what their hands have handled, and their strength wrought,
and their eyes beheld, all the days of their life. The age of Homer is surrounded with darkness,
his very personality with doubt. Not so that of Pericles: and the day is coming when we shall
confess, that we have learned more of Greece out of the crumbled fragments of her sculpture
than even from her sweet singers or soldier historians. And if indeed there be any profit in
our knowledge of the past, or any joy in the thought of being remembered hereafter, which can
give strength to present exertion, or patience to present endurance, there are two duties respecting
national architecture whose importance it is impossible to overrate: the first, to render the
architecture of the day, historical; and, the second, to preserve, as the most precious of
inheritances, that of past ages.

It is in the first of these two directions that Memory may truly be said to be the Sixth Lamp
of Architecture; for it is in becoming memorial or monumental that a true perfection is attained
by civil and domestic buildings; and this partly as they are, with such a view, built in a
more stable manner, and partly as their decorations are consequently animated by a metaphorical
or historical meaning.

As regards domestic buildings, there must always be a certain limitation to views of this kind
in the power, as well as in the hearts, of men; still I cannot but think it an evil sign of
a people when their houses are built to last for one generation only. There is a sanctity in
a good man's house which cannot be renewed in every tenement that rises on its ruins: and I
believe that good men would generally feel this; and that having spent their lives happily
and honourably, they would be grieved, at the close of them, to think that the place of their
earthly abode, which had seen, and seemed almost to sympathize in, all their honour, their
gladness, or their suffering,--that this, with all the record it bare of them, and of all material
things that they had loved and ruled over, and set the stamp of themselves upon--was to be
swept away, as soon as there was room made for them in the grave; that no respect was to be
shown to it, no affection felt for it, no good to be drawn from it by their children; that
though there was a monument in the church, there was no warm monument in the hearth and house
to them; that all that they ever treasured was despised, and the places that had sheltered
and comforted them were dragged down to the dust. I say that a good man would fear this; and
that, far more, a good son, a noble descendant, would fear doing it to his father's house.
I say that if men lived like men indeed, their houses would be temples--temples which we should
hardly dare to injure, and in which it would make us holy to be permitted to live; and there
must be a strange dissolution of natural affection, a strange unthankfulness for all that homes
have given and parents taught, a strange consciousness that we have been unfaithful to our
fathers' honour, or that our own lives are not such as would make our dwellings sacred to our
children, when each man would fain build to himself, and build for the little revolution of
his own life only. And I look upon those pitiful concretions of lime and clay which spring
up, in mildewed forwardness, out of the kneaded fields about our capital--upon those thin,
tottering, foundationless shells of splintered wood and imitated stone--upon those gloomy rows
of formalized minuteness, alike without difference and without fellowship, as solitary as similar--not
merely with the careless disgust of an offended eye, not merely with sorrow for a desecrated
landscape, but with a painful foreboding that the roots of our national greatness must be deeply
cankered when they are thus loosely struck in their native ground; that those comfortless and
unhonoured dwellings are the signs of a great and spreading spirit of popular discontent; that
they mark the time when every man's aim is to be in some more elevated sphere than his natural
one, and every man's past life is his habitual scorn; when men build in the hope of leaving
the places they have built, and live in the hope of forgetting the years that they have lived;
when the comfort, the peace, the religion of home have ceased to be felt; and the crowded tenements
of a struggling and restless population differ only from the tents of the Arab or the Gipsy
by their less healthy openness to the air of heaven, and less happy choice of their spot of
earth; by their sacrifice of liberty without the gain of rest, and of stability without the
luxury of change.

This is no slight, no consequenceless evil; it is ominous, infectious, and fecund of other
fault and misfortune. When men do not love their hearths, nor reverence their thresholds, it
is a sign that they have dishonoured both, and that they have never acknowledged the true universality
of that Christian worship which was indeed to supersede the idolatry, but not the piety, of
the pagan. Our God is a household God, as well as a heavenly one; He has an altar in every
man's dwelling; let men look to it when they rend it lightly and pour out its ashes. It is
not a question of mere ocular delight, it is no question of intellectual pride, or of cultivated
and critical fancy, how, and with what aspect of durability and of completeness, the domestic
buildings of a nation shall be raised. It is one of those moral duties, not with more impunity
to be neglected because the perception of them depends on a finely toned and balanced conscientiousness,
to build our dwellings with care, and patience, and fondness, and diligent completion, and
with a view to their duration at least for such a period as, in the ordinary course of national
revolutions, might be supposed likely to extend to the entire alteration of the direction of
local interests. This at the least; but it would be better if, in every possible instance,
men built their own houses on a scale commensurate rather with their condition at the commencement,
than their attainments at the termination, of their worldly career; and built them to stand
as long as human work at its strongest can be hoped to stand; recording to their children what
they had been, and from what, if so it had been permitted them, they had risen. And when houses
are thus built, we may have that true domestic architecture, the beginning of all other, which
does not disdain to treat with respect and thoughtfulness the small habitation as well as the
large, and which invests with the dignity of contented manhood the narrowness of worldly circumstance.

I look to this spirit of honourable, proud, peaceful self-possession, this abiding wisdom of
contented life, as probably one of the chief sources of great intellectual power in all ages,
and beyond dispute as the very primal source of the great architecture of old Italy and France.
To this day, the interest of their fairest cities depends, not on the isolated richness of
palaces, but on the cherished and exquisite decoration of even the smallest tenements of their
proud periods. The most elaborate piece of architecture in Venice is a small house at the head
of the Grand Canal, consisting of a ground floor with two storeys above, three windows in the
first, and two in the second. Many of the most exquisite buildings are on the narrower canals,
and of no larger dimensions. One of the most interesting pieces of fifteenth-century architecture
in North Italy, is a small house in a back street, behind the market-place of Vicenza; it bears
date 1481, and the motto, Il. n'est. rose. sans. épine; it has also only a ground floor and
two storeys, with three windows in each, separated by rich flower-work, and with balconies,
supported, the central one by an eagle with open wings, the lateral ones by winged griffins
standing on cornucopiæ. The idea that a house must be large in order to be well built, is altogether
of modern growth, and is parallel with the idea, that no picture can be historical, except
of a size admitting figures larger than life.

I would have, then, our ordinary dwelling-houses built to last, and built to be lovely; as
rich and full of pleasantness as may be, within and without; with what degree of likeness to
each other in style and manner, I will say presently, under another head;[164] but, at all
events, with such differences as might suit and express each man's character and occupation,
and partly his history. This right over the house, I conceive, belongs to its first builder,
and is to be respected by his children; and it would be well that blank stones should be left
in places, to be inscribed with a summary of his life and of its experience, raising thus the
habitation into a kind of monument, and developing, into more systematic instructiveness, that
good custom which was of old universal, and which still remains among some of the Swiss and
Germans, of acknowledging the grace of God's permission to build and possess a quiet resting-place,
in such sweet words as may well close our speaking of these things. I have taken them from
the front of a cottage lately built among the green pastures which descend from the village
of Grindelwald to the lower glacier:--

    Mit herzlichem Vertrauen
    Hat Johannes Mooter und Maria Rubi
    Dieses Haus bauen lassen.
    Der liebe Gott woll uns bewahren
    Vor allem Unglück und Gefahren,
    Und es in Segen lassen stehn
    Auf der Reise durch diese Jammerzeit
    Nach dem himmlischen Paradiese,
    Wo alle Frommen wohnen,
    Da wird Gott sie belohnen
    Mil der Friedenskrone
        Zu alle Ewigkeit.[165]

In public buildings the historical purpose should be still more definite. It is one of the
advantages of Gothic architecture,--I use the word Gothic in the most extended sense as broadly
opposed to classical,--that it admits of a richness of record altogether unlimited. Its minute
and multitudinous sculptural decorations afford means of expressing, either symbolically or
literally, all that need be known of national feeling or achievement. More decoration will,
indeed, be usually required than can take so elevated a character; and much, even in the most
thoughtful periods, has been left to the freedom of fancy, or suffered to consist of mere repetitions
of some national bearing or symbol. It is, however, generally unwise, even in mere surface
ornament, to surrender the power and privilege of variety which the spirit of Gothic architecture
admits; much more in important features--capitals of columns or bosses, and string-courses,
as of course in all confessed has-reliefs. Better the rudest work that tells a story or records
a fact, than the richest without meaning. There should not be a single ornament put upon great
civic buildings, without some intellectual intention. Actual representation of history has
in modern times been checked by a difficulty, mean indeed, but steadfast; that of unmanageable
costume: nevertheless, by a sufficiently bold imaginative treatment, and frank use of symbols,
all such obstacles may be vanquished; not perhaps in the degree necessary to produce sculpture
in itself satisfactory, but at all events so as to enable it to become a grand and expressive
element of architectural composition. Take, for example, the management of the capitals of
the ducal palace at Venice. History, as such, was indeed entrusted to the painters of its interior,
but every capital of its arcades was filled with meaning. The large one, the corner stone of
the whole, next the entrance, was devoted to the symbolization of Abstract Justice; above it
is a sculpture of the Judgment of Solomon, remarkable for a beautiful subjection in its treatment
to its decorative purpose. The figures, if the subject had been entirely composed of them,
would have awkwardly interrupted the line of the angle, and diminished its apparent strength;
and therefore in the midst of them, entirely without relation to them, and indeed actually
between the executioner and interceding mother, there rises the ribbed trunk of a massy tree,
which supports and continues the shaft of the angle, and whose leaves above overshadow and
enrich the whole. The capital below bears among its leafage a throned figure of Justice, Trajan
doing justice to the widow, Aristotle "che die legge," and one or two other subjects now unintelligible
from decay. The capitals next in order represent the virtues and vices in succession, as preservative
or destructive of national peace and power, concluding with Faith, with the inscription "Fides
optima in Deo est." A figure is seen on the opposite side of the capital, worshipping the sun.
After these, one or two capitals are fancifully decorated with birds, and then come a series
representing, first the various fruits, then the national costumes, and then the animals of
the various countries subject to Venetian rule.

Now, not to speak of any more important public building, let us imagine our own India House
adorned in this way, by historical or symbolical sculpture: massively built in the first place;
then chased with has-reliefs of our Indian battles, and fretted with carvings of Oriental foliage,
or inlaid with Oriental stones; and the more important members of its decoration composed of
groups of Indian life and landscape, and prominently expressing the phantasms of Hindoo worship
in their subjection to the Cross. Would not one such work be better than a thousand histories?
If, however, we have not the invention necessary for such efforts, or if, which is probably
one of the most noble excuses we can offer for our deficiency in such matters, we have less
pleasure in talking about ourselves, even in marble, than the Continental nations, at least
we have no excuse for any want of care in the points which insure the building's endurance.
And as this question is one of great interest in its relations to the choice of various modes
of decoration, it will be necessary to enter into it at some length.

The benevolent regards and purposes of men in masses seldom can be supposed to extend beyond
their own generation. They may look to posterity as an audience, may hope for its attention,
and labour for its praise: they may trust to its recognition of unacknowledged merit, and demand
its justice for contemporary wrong. But all this is mere selfishness, and does not involve
the slightest regard to, or consideration of, the interest of those by whose numbers we would
fain swell the circle of our flatterers, and by whose authority we would gladly support our
presently disputed claims. The idea of self-denial for the sake of posterity, of practising
present economy for the sake of debtors yet unborn, of planting forests that our descendants
may live under their shade, or of raising cities for future nations to inhabit, never, I suppose,
efficiently takes place among publicly recognized motives of exertion. Yet these are not the
less our duties; nor is our part fitly sustained upon the earth, unless the range of our intended
and deliberate usefulness include, not only the companions but the successors, of our pilgrimage.
God has lent us the earth for our life; it is a great entail. It belongs as much to those who
are to come after us, and whose names are already written in the book of creation, as to us;
and we have no right, by anything that we do or neglect, to involve them in unnecessary penalties,
or deprive them of benefits which it was in our power to bequeath. And this the more, because
it is one of the appointed conditions of the labour of men that, in proportion to the time
between the seed-sowing and the harvest, is the fulness of the fruit; and that generally, therefore,
the farther off we place our aim, and the less we desire to be ourselves the witnesses of what
we have laboured for, the more wide and rich will be the measure of our success. Men cannot
benefit those that are with them as they can benefit those who come after them; and of all
the pulpits from which human voice is ever sent forth, there is none from which it reaches
so far as from the grave.

Nor is there, indeed, any present loss, in such respect for futurity. Every human action gains
in honour, in grace, in all true magnificence, by its regard to things that are to come. It
is the far sight, the quiet and confident patience, that, above all other attributes, separate
man from man, and near him to his Maker; and there is no action nor art, whose majesty we may
not measure by this test. Therefore, when we build, let us think that we build for ever. Let
it not be for present delight, nor for present use alone; let it be such work as our descendants
will thank us for, and let us think, as we lay stone on stone, that a time is to come when
those stones will be held sacred because our hands have touched them, and that men will say
as they look upon the labour and wrought substance of them, "See! this our fathers did for
us." For, indeed, the greatest glory of a building is not in its stones, nor in its gold. Its
glory is in its Age, and in that deep sense of voicefulness, of stern watching, of mysterious
sympathy, nay, even of approval or condemnation, which we feel in walls that have long been
washed by the passing waves of humanity. It is in their lasting witness against men, in their
quiet contrast with the transitional character of all things, in the strength which, through
the lapse of seasons and times, and the decline and birth of dynasties, and the changing of
the face of the earth, and of the limits of the sea, maintains its sculptured shapeliness for
a time insuperable, connects forgotten and following ages with each other, and half constitutes
the identity, as it concentrates the sympathy, of nations: it is in that golden stain of time,
that we are to look for the real light, and colour, and preciousness of architecture; and it
is not until a building has assumed this character, till it has been entrusted with the fame,
and hallowed by the deeds of men, till its walls have been witnesses of suffering, and its
pillars rise out of the shadows of death, that its existence, more lasting as it is than that
of the natural objects of the world around it, can be gifted with even so much as these possess,
of language and of life.

For that period, then, we must build; not, indeed, refusing to ourselves the delight of present
completion, nor hesitating to follow such portions of character as may depend upon delicacy
of execution to the highest perfection of which they are capable, even although we may know
that in the course of years such details must perish; but taking care that for work of this
kind we sacrifice no enduring quality, and that the building shall not depend for its impressiveness
upon anything that is perishable. This would, indeed, be the law of good composition under
any circumstances, the arrangement of the larger masses being always a matter of greater importance
than the treatment of the smaller; but in architecture there is much in that very treatment
which is skilful or otherwise in proportion to its just regard to the probable effects of time:
and (which is still more to be considered) there is a beauty in those effects themselves, which
nothing else can replace, and which it is our wisdom to consult and to desire. For though,
hitherto, we have been speaking of the sentiment of age only, there is an actual beauty in
the marks of it, such and so great as to have become not unfrequently the subject of especial
choice among certain schools of art, and to have impressed upon those schools the character
usually and loosely expressed by the term "picturesque."....

Now, to return to our immediate subject, it so happens that, in architecture, the superinduced
and accidental beauty is most commonly inconsistent with the preservation of original character,
and the picturesque is therefore sought in ruin, and supposed to consist in decay. Whereas,
even when so sought, it consists in the mere sublimity of the rents, or fractures, or stains,
or vegetation, which assimilate the architecture with the work of Nature, and bestow upon it
those circumstances of colour and form which are universally beloved by the eye of man. So
far as this is done, to the extinction of the true characters of the architecture, it is picturesque,
and the artist who looks to the stem of the ivy instead of the shaft of the pillar, is carrying
out in more daring freedom the debased sculptor's choice of the hair instead of the countenance.
But so far as it can be rendered consistent with the inherent character, the picturesque or
extraneous sublimity of architecture has just this of nobler function in it than that of any
other object whatsoever, that it is an exponent of age, of that in which, as has been said,
the greatest glory of the building consists; and, therefore, the external signs of this glory,
having power and purpose greater than any belonging to their mere sensible beauty, may be considered
as taking rank among pure and essential characters; so essential to my mind, that I think a
building cannot be considered as in its prime until four or five centuries have passed over
it; and that the entire choice and arrangement of its details should have reference to their
appearance after that period, so that none should be admitted which would suffer material injury
either by the weather-staining, or the mechanical degradation which the lapse of such a period
would necessitate.

It is not my purpose to enter into any of the questions which the application of this principle
involves. They are of too great interest and complexity to be even touched upon within my present
limits, but this is broadly to be noticed, that those styles of architecture which are picturesque
in the sense above explained with respect to sculpture, that is to say, whose decoration depends
on the arrangement of points of shade rather than on purity of outline, do not suffer, but
commonly gain in richness of effect when their details are partly worn away; hence such styles,
pre-eminently that of French Gothic, should always be adopted when the materials to be employed
are liable to degradation, as brick, sandstone, or soft limestone; and styles in any degree
dependent on purity of line, as the Italian Gothic, must be practised altogether in hard and
undecomposing materials, granite, serpentine, or crystalline marbles. There can be no doubt
that the nature of the accessible materials influenced the formation of both styles; and it
should still more authoritatively determine our choice of either.

It does not belong to my present plan to consider at length the second head of duty of which
I have above spoken; the preservation of the architecture we possess: but a few words may be
forgiven, as especially necessary in modern times. Neither by the public, nor by those who
have the care of public monuments, is the true meaning of the word restoration understood.
It means the most total destruction which a building can suffer: a destruction out of which
no remnants can be gathered: a destruction accompanied with false description of the thing
destroyed. Do not let us deceive ourselves in this important matter; it is impossible, as impossible
as to raise the dead, to restore anything that has ever been great or beautiful in architecture.
That which I have above insisted upon as the life of the whole, that spirit which is given
only by the hand and eye of the workman, never can be recalled. Another spirit may be given
by another time, and it is then a new building; but the spirit of the dead workman cannot be
summoned up, and commanded to direct other hands, and other thoughts. And as for direct and
simple copying, it is palpably impossible. What copying can there be of surfaces that have
been worn half an inch down? The whole finish of the work was in the half inch that is gone;
if you attempt to restore that finish, you do it conjecturally; if you copy what is left, granting
fidelity to be possible (and what care, or watchfulness, or cost can secure it,) how is the
new work better than the old? There was yet in the old some life, some mysterious suggestion
of what it had been, and of what it had lost; some sweetness in the gentle lines which rain
and sun had wrought. There can be none in the brute hardness of the new carving. Look at the
animals which I have given in Plate XIV., as an instance of living work, and suppose the markings
of the scales and hair once worn away, or the wrinkles of the brows, and who shall ever restore
them? The first step to restoration, (I have seen it, and that again and again--seen it on
the Baptistery of Pisa, seen it on the Casa d'Oro at Venice, seen it on the Cathedral of Lisieux,)
is to dash the old work to pieces; the second is usually to put up the cheapest and basest
imitation which can escape detection, but in all cases, however careful, and however laboured,
an imitation still, a cold model of such parts as can be modelled, with conjectural supplements;
and my experience has as yet furnished me with only one instance, that of the Palais de Justice
at Rouen, in which even this, the utmost degree of fidelity which is possible, has been attained,
or even attempted.[166]

Do not let us talk then of restoration. The thing is a Lie from beginning to end. You may make
a model of a building as you may of a corpse, and your model may have the shell of the old
walls within it as your cast might have the skeleton, with what advantage I neither see nor
care: but the old building is destroyed, and that more totally and mercilessly than if it had
sunk into a heap of dust, or melted into a mass of clay: more has been gleaned out of desolated
Nineveh than ever will be out of re-built Milan. But, it is said, there may come a necessity
for restoration! Granted. Look the necessity full in the face, and understand it on its own
terms. It is a necessity for destruction. Accept it as such, pull the building down, throw
its stones into neglected corners, make ballast of them, or mortar, if you will; but do it
honestly, and do not set up a Lie in their place. And look that necessity in the face before
it comes, and you may prevent it. The principle of modern times, (a principle which, I believe,
at least in France, to be systematically acted on by the masons, in order to find themselves
work, as the abbey of St. Ouen was pulled down by the magistrates of the town by way of giving
work to some vagrants,) is to neglect buildings first, and restore them afterwards. Take proper
care of your monuments, and you will not need to restore them. A few sheets of lead put in
time upon the roof, a few dead leaves and sticks swept in time out of a water-course, will
save both roof and walls from ruin. Watch an old building with an anxious care; guard it as
best you may, and at any cost, from every influence of dilapidation. Count its stones as you
would jewels of a crown; set watches about it as if at the gates of a besieged city; bind it
together with iron where it loosens; stay it with timber where it declines; do not care about
the unsightliness of the aid: better a crutch than a lost limb; and do this tenderly, and reverently,
and continually, and many a generation will still be born and pass away beneath its shadow.
Its evil day must come at last; but let it come declaredly and openly, and let no dishonouring
and false substitute deprive it of the funeral offices of memory.

Of more wanton or ignorant ravage it is vain to speak; my words will not reach those who commit
them, and yet, be it heard or not, I must not leave the truth unstated, that it is again no
question of expediency or feeling whether we shall preserve the buildings of past times or
not. We have no right whatever to touch them. They are not ours. They belong partly to those
who built them, and partly to all the generations of mankind who are to follow us. The dead
have still their right in them: that which they laboured for, the praise of achievement or
the expression of religious feeling, or whatsoever else it might be which in those buildings
they intended to be permanent, we have no right to obliterate. What we have ourselves built,
we are at liberty to throw down; but what other men gave their strength and wealth and life
to accomplish, their right over does not pass away with their death; still less is the right
to the use of what they have left vested in us only. It belongs to all their successors. It
may hereafter be a subject of sorrow, or a cause of injury, to millions, that we have consulted
our present convenience by casting down such buildings as we choose to dispense with. That
sorrow, that loss, we have no right to inflict. Did the cathedral of Avranches[167] belong
to the mob who destroyed it, any more than it did to us, who walk in sorrow to and fro over
its foundation? Neither does any building whatever belong to those mobs who do violence to
it. For a mob it is, and must be always; it matters not whether enraged, or in deliberate folly;
whether countless, or sitting in committees; the people who destroy anything causelessly are
a mob, and Architecture is always destroyed causelessly. A fair building is necessarily worth
the ground it stands upon, and will be so until Central Africa and America shall have become
as populous as Middlesex: nor is any cause whatever valid as a ground for its destruction.
If ever valid, certainly not now, when the place both of the past and future is too much usurped
in our minds by the restless and discontented present. The very quietness of nature is gradually
withdrawn from us; thousands who once in their necessarily prolonged travel were subjected
to an influence, from the silent sky and slumbering fields, more effectual than known or confessed,
now bear with them even there the ceaseless fever of their life; and along the iron veins that
traverse the frame of our country, beat and flow the fiery pulses of its exertion, hotter and
faster every hour. All vitality is concentrated through those throbbing arteries into the central
cities; the country is passed over like a green sea by narrow bridges, and we are thrown back
in continually closer crowds upon the city gates. The only influence which can in any wise
there take the place of that of the woods and fields, is the power of ancient Architecture.
Do not part with it for the sake of the formal square, or of the fenced and planted walk, nor
of the goodly street nor opened quay. The pride of a city is not in these. Leave them to the
crowd; but remember that there will surely be some within the circuit of the disquieted walls
who would ask for some other spots than these wherein to walk; for some other forms to meet
their sight familiarly: like him[168] who sat so often where the sun struck from the west to
watch the lines of the dome of Florence drawn on the deep sky, or like those, his Hosts, who
could bear daily to behold, from their palace chambers, the places where their fathers lay
at rest, at the meeting of the dark streets of Verona.

  [162] May-day processions in honour of the Virgin.

  [163] Genesis xi, 4.

  [164] See pp. 225 ff.

  [165] In heartfelt trust Johannes Mooter and Maria Rubi had this
  house erected. May dear God shield us from all perils and
  misfortune; and let His blessing rest upon it during the journey
  through this wretched life up to heavenly Paradise where the pious
  dwell. There will God reward them with the Crown of Peace to all
  eternity.

  [166] Baptistery of Pisa, circular, of marble, with dome two
  hundred feet high, embellished with numerous columns, is a notable
  work of the twelfth century. The pulpit is a masterpiece of Nicola
  Pisano. Casa d'Oro at Venice is noted for its elegance. It was
  built in the fourteenth century. The Cathedral of Lisieux dates
  chiefly from the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and contains
  many works of art. The Palais de Justice is of the fifteenth
  century. It was built for the Parliament of the Province.

  [167] This cathedral, destroyed in 1799, was one of the most
  beautiful in all Normandy.

  [168] Dante.

THE LAMP OF OBEDIENCE

It has been my endeavour to show in the preceding pages how every form of noble architecture
is in some sort the embodiment of the Polity, Life, History, and Religious Faith of nations.
Once or twice in doing this, I have named a principle to which I would now assign a definite
place among those which direct that embodiment; the last place, not only as that to which its
own humility would incline, but rather as belonging to it in the aspect of the crowning grace
of all the rest; that principle, I mean, to which Polity owes its stability, Life its happiness,
Faith its acceptance, Creation its continuance,--Obedience.

Nor is it the least among the sources of more serious satisfaction which I have found in the
pursuit of a subject that at first appeared to bear but slightly on the grave interests of
mankind, that the conditions of material perfection which it leads me in conclusion to consider,
furnish a strange proof how false is the conception, how frantic the pursuit, of that treacherous
phantom which men call Liberty: most treacherous, indeed, of all phantoms; for the feeblest
ray of reason might surely show us, that not only its attainment, but its being, was impossible.
There is no such thing in the universe. There can never be. The stars have it not; the earth
has it not; the sea has it not; and we men have the mockery and semblance of it only for our
heaviest punishment.

In one of the noblest poems[169] for its imagery and its music belonging to the recent school
of our literature, the writer has sought in the aspect of inanimate nature the expression of
that Liberty which, having once loved, he had seen among men in its true dyes of darkness.
But with what strange fallacy of interpretation! since in one noble line of his invocation
he has contradicted the assumptions of the rest, and acknowledged the presence of a subjection,
surely not less severe because eternal. How could he otherwise? since if there be any one principle
more widely than another confessed by every utterance, or more sternly than another imprinted
on every atom, of the visible creation, that principle is not Liberty, but Law.

The enthusiast would reply that by Liberty he meant the Law of Liberty. Then why use the single
and misunderstood word? If by liberty you mean chastisement of the passions, discipline of
the intellect, subjection of the will; if you mean the fear of inflicting, the shame of committing,
a wrong; if you mean respect for all who are in authority, and consideration for all who are
in dependence; veneration for the good, mercy to the evil, sympathy with the weak; if you mean
watchfulness over all thoughts, temperance in all pleasures, and perseverance in all toils;
if you mean, in a word, that Service which is defined in the liturgy of the English church
to be perfect Freedom, why do you name this by the same word by which the luxurious mean license,
and the reckless mean change; by which the rogue means rapine, and the fool, equality; by which
the proud mean anarchy, and the malignant mean violence? Call it by any name rather than this,
but its best and truest, is Obedience. Obedience is, indeed, founded on a kind of freedom,
else it would become mere subjugation, but that freedom is only granted that obedience may
be more perfect; and thus, while a measure of license is necessary to exhibit the individual
energies of things, the fairness and pleasantness and perfection of them all consist in their
Restraint. Compare a river that has burst its banks with one that is bound by them, and the
clouds that are scattered over the face of the whole heaven with those that are marshalled
into ranks and orders by its winds. So that though restraint, utter and unrelaxing, can never
be comely, this is not because it is in itself an evil, but only because, when too great, it
overpowers the nature of the thing restrained, and so counteracts the other laws of which that
nature is itself composed. And the balance wherein consists the fairness of creation is between
the laws of life and being in the things governed, and the laws of general sway to which they
are subjected; and the suspension or infringement of either, kind of law, or, literally, disorder,
is equivalent to, and synonymous with, disease; while the increase of both honour and beauty
is habitually on the side of restraint (or the action of superior law) rather than of character
(or the action of inherent law). The noblest word in the catalogue of social virtue is "Loyalty,"
and the sweetest which men have learned in the pastures of the wilderness is "Fold."

Nor is this all; but we may observe, that exactly in proportion to the majesty of things in
the scale of being, is the completeness of their obedience to the laws that are set over them.
Gravitation is less quietly, less instantly obeyed by a grain of dust than it is by the sun
and moon; and the ocean falls and flows under influences which the lake and river do not recognize.
So also in estimating the dignity of any action or occupation of men, there is perhaps no better
test than the question "are its laws strait?" For their severity will probably be commensurate
with the greatness of the numbers whose labour it concentrates or whose interest it concerns.

This severity must be singular, therefore, in the case of that art, above all others, whose
productions are the most vast and the most common; which requires for its practice the co-operation
of bodies of men, and for its perfection the perseverance of successive generations. And, taking
into account also what we have before so often observed of Architecture, her continual influence
over the emotions of daily life, and her realism, as opposed to the two sister arts which are
in comparison but the picturing of stories and of dreams, we might beforehand expect that we
should find her healthy state and action dependent on far more severe laws than theirs: that
the license which they extend to the workings of individual mind would be withdrawn by her;
and that, in assertion of the relations which she holds with all that is universally important
to man, she would set forth, by her own majestic subjection, some likeness of that on which
man's social happiness and power depend. We might, therefore, without the light of experience,
conclude, that Architecture never could flourish except when it was subjected to a national
law as strict and as minutely authoritative as the laws which regulate religion, policy, and
social relations; nay, even more authoritative than these, because both capable of more enforcement,
as over more passive matter; and needing more enforcement, as the purest type not of one law
nor of another, but of the common authority of all. But in this matter experience speaks more
loudly than reason. If there be any one condition which, in watching the progress of architecture,
we see distinct and general; if, amidst the counter-evidence of success attending opposite
accidents of character and circumstance, any one conclusion may be constantly and indisputably
drawn, it is this; that the architecture of a nation is great only when it is as universal
and as established as its language; and when provincial differences of style are nothing more
than so many dialects. Other necessities are matters of doubt: nations have been alike successful
in their architecture in times of poverty and of wealth; in times of war and of peace; in times
of barbarism and of refinement; under governments the most liberal or the most arbitrary; but
this one condition has been constant, this one requirement clear in all places and at all times,
that the work shall be that of a school, that no individual caprice shall dispense with, or
materially vary, accepted types and customary decorations; and that from the cottage to the
palace, and from the chapel to the basilica, and from the garden fence to the fortress wall,
every member and feature of the architecture of the nation shall be as commonly current, as
frankly accepted, as its language or its coin.

A day never passes without our hearing our English architects called upon to be original, and
to invent a new style: about as sensible and necessary an exhortation as to ask of a man who
has never had rags enough on his back to keep out cold, to invent a new mode of cutting a coat.
Give him a whole coat first, and let him concern himself about the fashion of it afterwards.
We want no new style of architecture. Who wants a new style of painting or sculpture? But we
want some style. It is of marvellously little importance, if we have a code of laws and they
be good laws, whether they be new or old, foreign or native, Roman or Saxon, or Norman, or
English laws. But it is of considerable importance that we should have a code of laws of one
kind or another, and that code accepted and enforced from one side of the island to another,
and not one law made ground of judgment at York and another in Exeter. And in like manner it
does not matter one marble splinter whether we have an old or new architecture, but it matters
everything whether we have an architecture truly so called or not; that is, whether an architecture
whose laws might be taught at our schools from Cornwall to Northumberland, as we teach English
spelling and English grammar, or an architecture which is to be invented fresh every time we
build a workhouse or a parish school. There seems to me to be a wonderful misunderstanding
among the majority of architects at the present day as to the very nature and meaning of Originality,
and of all wherein it consists. Originality in expression does not depend on invention of new
words; nor originality in poetry on invention of new measures; nor, in painting, on invention
of new colours, or new modes of using them. The chords of music, the harmonies of colour, the
general principles of the arrangement of sculptural masses, have been determined long ago,
and, in all probability, cannot be added to any more than they can be altered. Granting that
they may be, such additions or alterations are much more the work of time and of multitudes
than of individual inventors. We may have one Van Eyck,[170] who will be known as the introducer
of a new style once in ten centuries, but he himself will trace his invention to some accidental
by-play or pursuit; and the use of that invention will depend altogether on the popular necessities
or instincts of the period. Originality depends on nothing of the kind. A man who has the gift,
will take up any style that is going, the style of his day, and will work in that, and be great
in that, and make everything that he does in it look as fresh as if every thought of it had
just come down from heaven. I do not say that he will not take liberties with his materials,
or with his rules: I do not say that strange changes will not sometimes be wrought by his efforts,
or his fancies, in both. But those changes will be instructive, natural, facile, though sometimes
marvellous; they will never be sought after as things necessary to his dignity or to his independence;
and those liberties will be like the liberties that a great speaker takes with the language,
not a defiance of its rules for the sake of singularity; but inevitable, uncalculated, and
brilliant consequences of an effort to express what the language, without such infraction,
could not. There may be times when, as I have above described, the life of an art is manifested
in its changes, and in its refusal of ancient limitations: so there are in the life of an insect;
and there is great interest in the state of both the art and the insect at those periods when,
by their natural progress and constitutional power, such changes are about to be wrought. But
as that would be both an Uncomfortable and foolish caterpillar which, instead of being contented
with a caterpillar's life and feeding on caterpillar's food, was always striving to turn itself
into a chrysalis; and as that would be an unhappy chrysalis which should lie awake at night
and roll restlessly in its cocoon, in efforts to turn itself prematurely into a moth; so will
that art be unhappy and unprosperous which, instead of supporting itself on the food, and contenting
itself with the customs, which have been enough for the support and guidance of other arts
before it and like it, is struggling and fretting under the natural limitations of its existence,
and striving to become something other than it is. And though it is the nobility of the highest
creatures to look forward to, and partly to understand the changes which are appointed for
them, preparing for them beforehand; and if, as is usual with appointed changes, they be into
a higher state, even desiring them, and rejoicing in the hope of them, yet it is the strength
of every creature, be it changeful or not, to rest for the time being, contented with the conditions
of its existence, and striving only to bring about the changes which it desires, by fulfilling
to the uttermost the duties for which its present state is appointed and continued.

Neither originality, therefore, nor change, good though both may be, and this is commonly a
most merciful and enthusiastic supposition with respect to either, is ever to be sought in
itself, or can ever be healthily obtained by any struggle or rebellion against common laws.
We want neither the one nor the other. The forms of architecture already known are good enough
for us, and for far better than any of us: and it will be time enough to think of changing
them for better when we can use them as they are. But there are some things which we not only
want, but cannot do without; and which all the struggling and raving in the world, nay more,
which all the real talent and resolution in England, will never enable us to do without: and
these are Obedience, Unity, Fellowship, and Order. And all our schools of design, and committees
of taste; all our academies and lectures, and journalisms, and essays; all the sacrifices which
we are beginning to make, all the truth which there is in our English nature, all the power
of our English will, and the life of our English intellect, will in this matter be as useless
as efforts and emotions in a dream, unless we are contented to submit architecture and all
art, like other things, to English law.

I say architecture and all art; for I believe architecture must be the beginning of arts, and
that the others must follow her in their time and order; and I think the prosperity of our
schools of painting and sculpture, in which no one will deny the life, though many the health,
depends upon that of our architecture. I think that all will languish until that takes the
lead, and (this I do not think, but I proclaim, as confidently as I would assert the necessity,
for the safety of society, of an understood and strongly administered legal government) our
architecture will languish, and that in the very dust, until the first principle of common
sense be manfully obeyed, and an universal system of form and workmanship be everywhere adopted
and enforced. It may be said that this is impossible. It may be so--I fear it is so: I have
nothing to do with the possibility or impossibility of it; I simply know and assert the necessity
of it. If it be impossible, English art is impossible. Give it up at once. You are wasting
time, and money, and energy upon it, and though you exhaust centuries and treasures, and break
hearts for it, you will never raise it above the merest dilettanteism. Think not of it. It
is a dangerous vanity, a mere gulph in which genius after genius will be swallowed up, and
it will not close. And so it will continue to be, unless the one bold and broad step be taken
at the beginning. We shall not manufacture art out of pottery and printed stuffs; we shall
not reason out art by our philosophy; we shall not stumble upon art by our experiments, nor
create it by our fancies: I do not say that we can even build it out of brick and stone; but
there is a chance for us in these, and there is none else; and that chance rests on the bare
possibility of obtaining the consent, both of architects and of the public, to choose a style,
and to use it universally.

How surely its principles ought at first to be limited, we may easily determine by the consideration
of the necessary modes of teaching any other branch of general knowledge. When we begin to
teach children writing, we force them to absolute copyism, and require absolute accuracy in
the formation of the letters; as they obtain command of the received modes of literal expression,
we cannot prevent their falling into such variations as are consistent with their feeling,
their circumstances, or their characters. So, when a boy is first taught to write Latin, an
authority is required of him for every expression he uses; as he becomes master of the language
he may take a license, and feel his right to do so without any authority, and yet write better
Latin than when he borrowed every separate expression. In the same way our architects would
have to be taught to write the accepted style. We must first determine what buildings are to
be considered Augustan in their authority; their modes of construction and laws of proportion
are to be studied with the most penetrating care; then the different forms and uses of their
decorations are to be classed and catalogued, as a German grammarian classes the powers of
prepositions; and under this absolute, irrefragable authority, we are to begin to work; admitting
not so much as an alteration in the depth of a cavetto,[171] or the breadth of a fillet. Then,
when our sight is once accustomed to the grammatical forms and arrangements, and our thoughts
familiar with the expression of them all; when we can speak this dead language naturally, and
apply it to whatever ideas we have to render, that is to say, to every practical purpose of
life; then, and not till then, a license might be permitted, and individual authority allowed
to change or to add to the received forms, always within certain limits; the decorations, especially,
might be made subjects of variable fancy, and enriched with ideas either original or taken
from other schools. And thus, in process of time and by a great national movement, it might
come to pass that a new style should arise, as language itself changes; we might perhaps come
to speak Italian instead of Latin, or to speak modern instead of old English; but this would
be a matter of entire indifference, and a matter, besides, which no determination or desire
could either hasten or prevent. That alone which it is in our power to obtain, and which it
is our duty to desire, is an unanimous style of some kind, and such comprehension and practice
of it as would enable us to adapt its features to the peculiar character of every several building,
large or small, domestic, civil or ecclesiastical.

  [169] Coleridge's Ode to France.

  [170] Hubert Van Eyck [1366-1440]. The great Flemish master.

  [171] A hollowed moulding. [New Eng. Dict.]

SELECTIONS FROM LECTURES ON ART

    Ruskin was first elected to the Slade Professorship of Fine Art in
    Oxford in 1869, and held the chair continuously until 1878, when
    he resigned because of ill-health, and again from 1883 to 1885.
    The Lectures on Art were announced in the Oxford University
    Gazette of January 28, 1870, the general subject of the course
    being "The Limits and Elementary Practice of Art," with Leonardo's
    Trattato della Pittura as the text-book. The lectures were
    delivered between February 8 and March 23, 1870. They appeared in
    book form in July of the same year. These lectures contain much of
    his best and most mature thought, of his most painstaking research
    and keenest analysis. Talking with a friend in later years, he
    said: "I have taken more pains with the Oxford Lectures than with
    anything else I have ever done": and in the preface to the edition
    of 1887 he began: "The following lectures were the most important
    piece of my literary work, done with unabated power, best motive,
    and happiest concurrence of circumstance." Ruskin took his
    professorship very seriously. He spent almost infinite labour in
    composing his more formal lectures, and during the eight years
    in which he held the chair he published six volumes of them, not
    to mention three Italian guide-books, which came under his
    interpretation of his professional duties;--"the real duty
    involved in my Oxford Professorship cannot be completely done by
    giving lectures in Oxford only, but ... I ought also to give what
    guidance I may to travellers in Italy." Not only by lecturing and
    writing did he fill the chair, but he taught individuals, founded
    and endowed a Drawing mastership, and presented elaborately
    catalogued collections to illustrate his subject. His lecture
    classes were always large, and his work had a marked influence in
    the University.

INAUGURAL

We see lately a most powerful impulse given to the production of costly works of art by the
various causes which promote the sudden accumulation of wealth in the hands of private persons.
We have thus a vast and new patronage, which, in its present agency, is injurious to our schools;
but which is nevertheless in a great degree earnest and conscientious, and far from being influenced
chiefly by motives of ostentation. Most of our rich men would be glad to promote the true interests
of art in this country; and even those who buy for vanity, found their vanity on the possession
of what they suppose to be best.

It is therefore in a great measure the fault of artists themselves if they suffer from this
partly unintelligent, but thoroughly well-intended patronage. If they seek to attract it by
eccentricity, to deceive it by superficial qualities, or take advantage of it by thoughtless
and facile production, they necessarily degrade themselves and it together, and have no right
to complain afterwards that it will not acknowledge better-grounded claims. But if every painter
of real power would do only what he knew to be worthy of himself, and refuse to be involved
in the contention for undeserved or accidental success, there is indeed, whatever may have
been thought or said to the contrary, true instinct enough in the public mind to follow such
firm guidance. It is one of the facts which the experience of thirty years enables me to assert
without qualification, that a really good picture is ultimately always approved and bought,
unless it is wilfully rendered offensive to the public by faults which the artist has been
either too proud to abandon or too weak to correct.

The development of whatever is healthful and serviceable in the two modes of impulse which
we have been considering, depends however, ultimately, on the direction taken by the true interest
in art which has lately been aroused by the great and active genius of many of our living,
or but lately lost, painters, sculptors, and architects. It may perhaps surprise, but I think
it will please you to hear me, or (if you will forgive me, in my own Oxford, the presumption
of fancying that some may recognize me by an old name) to hear the author of Modern Painters
say, that his chief error in earlier days was not in over-estimating, but in too slightly acknowledging
the merit of living men. The great painter whose power, while he was yet among us, I was able
to perceive,[172] was the first to reprove me for my disregard of the skill of his fellow-artists;
and, with this inauguration of the study of the art of all time,--a study which can only by
true modesty end in wise admiration,--it is surely well that I connect the record of these
words of his, spoken then too truly to myself, and true always more or less for all who are
untrained in that toil,--"You don't know how difficult it is."

You will not expect me, within the compass of this lecture, to give you any analysis of the
many kinds of excellent art (in all the three great divisions) which the complex demands of
modern life, and yet more varied instincts of modern genius, have developed for pleasure or
service. It must be my endeavour, in conjunction with my colleagues in other Universities,
hereafter to enable you to appreciate these worthily; in the hope that also the members of
the Royal Academy, and those of the Institute of British Architects, may be induced to assist,
and guide, the efforts of the Universities, by organizing such a system of art education for
their own students, as shall in future prevent the waste of genius in any mistaken endeavours;
especially removing doubt as to the proper substance and use of materials; and requiring compliance
with certain elementary principles of right, in every picture and design exhibited with their
sanction. It is not indeed possible for talent so varied as that of English artists to be compelled
into the formalities of a determined school; but it must certainly be the function of every
academical body to see that their younger students are guarded from what must in every school
be error; and that they are practised in the best methods of work hitherto known, before their
ingenuity is directed to the invention of others.

I need scarcely refer, except for the sake of completeness in my statement, to one form of
demand for art which is wholly unenlightened, and powerful only for evil;--namely, the demand
of the classes occupied solely in the pursuit of pleasure, for objects and modes of art that
can amuse indolence or excite passion. There is no need for any discussion of these requirements,
or of their forms of influence, though they are very deadly at present in their operation on
sculpture, and on jewellers' work. They cannot be checked by blame, nor guided by instruction;
they are merely the necessary results of whatever defects exist in the temper and principles
of a luxurious society; and it is only by moral changes, not by art-criticism, that their action
can be modified.

Lastly, there is a continually increasing demand for popular art, multipliable by the printing-press,
illustrative of daily events, of general literature, and of natural science. Admirable skill,
and some of the best talent of modern times, are occupied in supplying this want; and there
is no limit to the good which may be effected by rightly taking advantage of the powers we
now possess of placing good and lovely art within the reach of the poorest classes. Much has
been already accomplished; but great harm has been done also,--first, by forms of art definitely
addressed to depraved tastes; and, secondly, in a more subtle way, by really beautiful and
useful engravings which are yet not good enough to retain their influence on the public mind;--which
weary it by redundant quantity of monotonous average excellence, and diminish or destroy its
power of accurate attention to work of a higher order.

Especially this is to be regretted in the effect produced on the schools of line engraving,
which had reached in England an executive skill of a kind before unexampled, and which of late
have lost much of their more sterling and legitimate methods. Still, I have seen plates produced
quite recently, more beautiful, I think, in some qualities than anything ever before attained
by the burin:[173] and I have not the slightest fear that photography, or any other adverse
or competitive operation, will in the least ultimately diminish,--I believe they will, on the
contrary, stimulate and exalt--the grand old powers of the wood and the steel.

Such are, I think, briefly the present conditions of art with which we have to deal; and I
conceive it to be the function of this Professorship, with respect to them, to establish both
a practical and critical school of fine art for English gentlemen: practical, so that, if they
draw at all, they may draw rightly; and critical, so that, being first directed to such works
of existing art as will best reward their study, they may afterwards make their patronage of
living artists delightful to themselves in their consciousness of its justice, and, to the
utmost, beneficial to their country, by being given only to the men who deserve it; in the
early period of their lives, when they both need it most and can be influenced by it to the
best advantage.

And especially with reference to this function of patronage, I believe myself justified in
taking into account future probabilities as to the character and range of art in England; and
I shall endeavour at once to organize with you a system of study calculated to develope chiefly
the knowledge of those branches in which the English schools have shown, and are likely to
show, peculiar excellence.

Now, in asking your sanction both for the nature of the general plans I wish to adopt, and
for what I conceive to be necessary limitations of them, I wish you to be fully aware of my
reasons for both: and I will therefore risk the burdening of your patience while I state the
directions of effort in which I think English artists are liable to failure, and those also
in which past experience has shown they are secure of success.

I referred, but now, to the effort we are making to improve the designs of our manufactures.
Within certain limits I believe this improvement may indeed take effect: so that we may no
more humour momentary fashions by ugly results of chance instead of design; and may produce
both good tissues, of harmonious colours, and good forms and substance of pottery and glass.
But we shall never excel in decorative design. Such design is usually produced by people of
great natural powers of mind, who have no variety of subjects to employ themselves on, no oppressive
anxieties, and are in circumstances either of natural scenery or of daily life, which cause
pleasurable excitement. We cannot design because we have too much to think of, and we think
of it too anxiously. It has long been observed how little real anxiety exists in the minds
of the partly savage races which excel in decorative art; and we must not suppose that the
temper of the middle ages was a troubled one, because every day brought its dangers or its
changes. The very eventfulness of the life rendered it careless, as generally is still the
case with soldiers and sailors. Now, when there are great powers of thought, and little to
think of, all the waste energy and fancy are thrown into the manual work, and you have as much
intellect as would direct the affairs of a large mercantile concern for a day, spent all at
once, quite unconsciously, in drawing an ingenious spiral.

Also, powers of doing fine ornamental work are only to be reached by a perpetual discipline
of the hand as well as of the fancy; discipline as attentive and painful as that which a juggler
has to put himself through, to overcome the more palpable difficulties of his profession. The
execution of the best artists is always a splendid tour-de-force, and much that in painting
is supposed to be dependent on material is indeed only a lovely and quite inimitable legerdemain.
Now, when powers of fancy, stimulated by this triumphant precision of manual dexterity, descend
uninterruptedly from generation to generation, you have at last, what is not so much a trained
artist as a new species of animal, with whose instinctive gifts you have no chance of contending.
And thus all our imitations of other peoples' work are futile. We must learn first to make
honest English wares, and afterward to decorate them as may please the then approving Graces.

Secondly--and this is an incapacity of a graver kind, yet having its own good in it also--we
shall never be successful in the highest fields of ideal or theological art.

For there is one strange, but quite essential, character in us--ever since the Conquest, if
not earlier:--a delight in the forms of burlesque which are connected in some degree with the
foulness in evil. I think the most perfect type of a true English mind in its best possible
temper, is that of Chaucer; and you will find that, while it is for the most part full of thoughts
of beauty, pure and wild like that of an April morning, there are, even in the midst of this,
sometimes momentarily jesting passages which stoop to play with evil--while the power of listening
to and enjoying the jesting of entirely gross persons, whatever the feeling may be which permits
it, afterwards degenerates into forms of humour which render some of quite the greatest, wisest,
and most moral of English writers now almost useless for our youth. And yet you will find that
whenever Englishmen are wholly without this instinct, their genius is comparatively weak and
restricted.

Now, the first necessity for the doing of any great work in ideal art, is the looking upon
all foulness with horror, as a contemptible though dreadful enemy. You may easily understand
what I mean, by comparing the feelings with which Dante regards any form of obscenity or of
base jest, with the temper in which the same things are regarded by Shakspere. And this strange
earthly instinct of ours, coupled as it is, in our good men, with great simplicity and common
sense, renders them shrewd and perfect observers and delineators of actual nature, low or high;
but precludes them from that speciality of art which is properly called sublime. If ever we
try anything in the manner of Michael Angelo or of Dante, we catch a fall, even in literature,
as Milton in the battle of the angels, spoiled from Hesiod:[174] while in art, every attempt
in this style has hitherto been the sign either of the presumptuous egotism of persons who
had never really learned to be workmen, or it has been connected with very tragic forms of
the contemplation of death,--it has always been partly insane, and never once wholly successful.

But we need not feel any discomfort in these limitations of our capacity. We can do much that
others cannot, and more than we have ever yet ourselves completely done. Our first great gift
is in the portraiture of living people--a power already so accomplished in both Reynolds and
Gainsborough, that nothing is left for future masters but to add the calm of perfect workmanship
to their vigour and felicity of perception. And of what value a true school of portraiture
may become in the future, when worthy men will desire only to be known, and others will not
fear to know them, for what they truly were, we cannot from any past records of art influence
yet conceive. But in my next address it will be partly my endeavour to show you how much more
useful, because more humble, the labour of great masters might have been, had they been content
to bear record of the souls that were dwelling with them on earth, instead of striving to give
a deceptive glory to those they dreamed of in heaven.

Secondly, we have an intense power of invention and expression in domestic drama; (King Lear
and Hamlet being essentially domestic in their strongest motives of interest). There is a tendency
at this moment towards a noble development of our art in this direction, checked by many adverse
conditions, which may be summed in one,--the insufficiency of generous civic or patriotic passion
in the heart of the English people; a fault which makes its domestic affections selfish, contracted,
and, therefore, frivolous.

Thirdly, in connection with our simplicity and good-humour, and partly with that very love
of the grotesque which debases our ideal, we have a sympathy with the lower animals which is
peculiarly our own; and which, though it has already found some exquisite expression in the
works of Bewick and Landseer, is yet quite undeveloped. This sympathy, with the aid of our
now authoritative science of physiology, and in association with our British love of adventure,
will, I hope, enable us to give to the future inhabitants of the globe an almost perfect record
of the present forms of animal life upon it, of which many are on the point of being extinguished....

While I myself hold this professorship, I shall direct you in these exercises very definitely
to natural history, and to landscape; not only because in these two branches I am probably
able to show you truths which might be despised by my successors; but because I think the vital
and joyful study of natural history quite the principal element requiring introduction, not
only into University, but into national, education, from highest to lowest; and I even will
risk incurring your ridicule by confessing one of my fondest dreams, that I may succeed in
making some of you English youths like better to look at a bird than to shoot it; and even
desire to make wild creatures tame, instead of tame creatures wild. And for the study of landscape,
it is, I think, now calculated to be of use in deeper, if not more important modes, than that
of natural science, for reasons which I will ask you to let me state at some length.

Observe first;--no race of men which is entirety bred in wild country, far from cities, ever
enjoys landscape. They may enjoy the beauty of animals, but scarcely even that: a true peasant
cannot see the beauty of cattle; but only the qualities expressive of their serviceableness.
I waive discussion of this to-day; permit my assertion of it, under my confident guarantee
of future proof. Landscape can only be enjoyed by cultivated persons; and it is only by music,
literature, and painting, that cultivation can be given. Also, the faculties which are thus
received are hereditary; so that the child of an educated race has an innate instinct for beauty,
derived from arts practised hundreds of years before its birth. Now farther note this, one
of the loveliest things in human nature. In the children of noble races, trained by surrounding
art, and at the same time in the practice of great deeds, there is an intense delight in the
landscape of their country as memorial; a sense not taught to them, nor teachable to any others;
but, in them, innate; and the seal and reward of persistence in great national life;--the obedience
and the peace of ages having extended gradually the glory of the revered ancestors also to
the ancestral land; until the Motherhood of the dust, the mystery of the Demeter from whose
bosom we came, and to whose bosom we return, surrounds and inspires, everywhere, the local
awe of field and fountain; the sacredness of landmark that none may remove, and of wave that
none may pollute; while records of proud days, and of dear persons, make every rock monumental
with ghostly inscription, and every path lovely with noble desolateness.

Now, however checked by lightness of temperament, the instinctive love of landscape in us has
this deep root, which, in your minds, I will pray you to disencumber from whatever may oppress
or mortify it, and to strive to feel with all the strength of your youth that a nation is only
worthy of the soil and the scenes that it has inherited, when, by all its acts and arts, it
is making them more lovely for its children....

But if either our work, or our inquiries, are to be indeed successful in their own field, they
must be connected with others of a sterner character. Now listen to me, if I have in these
past details lost or burdened your attention; for this is what I have chiefly to say to you.
The art of any country is the exponent of its social and political virtues. I will show you
that it is so in some detail, in the second of my subsequent course of lectures; meantime accept
this as one of the things, and the most important of all things, I can positively declare to
you. The art, or general productive and formative energy, of any country, is an exact exponent
of its ethical life. You can have noble art only from noble persons, associated under laws
fitted to their time and circumstances. And the best skill that any teacher of art could spend
here in your help, would not end in enabling you even so much as rightly to draw the water-lilies
in the Cherwell (and though it did, the work when done would not be worth the lilies themselves)
unless both he and you were seeking, as I trust we shall together seek, in the laws which regulate
the finest industries, the clue to the laws which regulate all industries, and in better obedience
to which we shall actually have henceforward to live: not merely in compliance with our own
sense of what is right, but under the weight of quite literal necessity. For the trades by
which the British people has believed it to be the highest of destinies to maintain itself,
cannot now long remain undisputed in its hands; its unemployed poor are daily becoming more
violently criminal; and a certain distress in the middle classes, arising, partly from their
vanity in living always up to their incomes, and partly from, their folly in imagining that
they can subsist in idleness upon usury, will at last compel the sons and daughters of English
families to acquaint themselves with the principles of providential economy; and to learn that
food can only be got out of the ground, and competence only secured by frugality; and that
although it is not possible for all to be occupied in the highest arts, nor for any, guiltlessly,
to pass their days in a succession of pleasures, the most perfect mental culture possible to
men is founded on their useful energies, and their best arts and brightest happiness are consistent,
and consistent only, with their virtue.

This, I repeat, gentlemen, will soon become manifest to those among us, and there are yet many,
who are honest-hearted. And the future fate of England depends upon the position they then
take, and on their courage in maintaining it.

There is a destiny now possible to us--the highest ever set before a nation to be accepted
or refused. We are still undegenerate in race; a race mingled of the best northern blood. We
are not yet dissolute in temper, but still have the firmness to govern, and the grace to obey.
We have been taught a religion of pure mercy, which we must either now betray, or learn to
defend by fulfilling. And we are rich in an inheritance of honour, bequeathed to us through
a thousand years of noble history, which it should be our daily thirst to increase with splendid
avarice, so that Englishmen, if it be a sin to covet honour, should be the most offending souls
alive.[175] Within the last few years we have had the laws of natural science opened to us
with a rapidity which has been blinding by its brightness; and means of transit and communication
given to us, which have made but one kingdom of the habitable globe. One kingdom;--but who
is to be its king? Is there to be no king in it, think you, and every man to do that which
is right in his own eyes? Or only kings of terror, and the obscene empires of Mammon and Belial?
Or will you, youths of England, make your country again a royal throne of kings; a sceptred
isle, for all the world a source of light, a centre of peace; mistress of Learning and of the
Arts;--faithful guardian of great memories in the midst of irreverent and ephemeral visions;--faithful
servant of time-tried principles, under temptation from fond experiments and licentious desires;
and amidst the cruel and clamorous jealousies of the nations, worshipped in her strange valour
of goodwill toward men?[176]

"Vexilla regis prodeunt."[177] Yes, but of which king? There are the two oriflammes; which
shall we plant on the farthest islands--the one that floats in heavenly fire, or that hangs
heavy with foul tissue of terrestrial gold? There is indeed a course of beneficent glory open
to us, such as never was yet offered to any poor group of mortal souls. But it must be--it
is with us, now. "Reign or Die." And if it shall be said of this country, "Fece per viltate,
il gran rifiuto,"[178] that refusal of the crown will be, of all yet recorded in history, the
shamefullest and most untimely.

And this is what she must either do, or perish: she must found colonies as fast and as far
as she is able, formed of her most energetic and worthiest men;--seizing every piece of fruitful
waste ground she can set her foot on, and there teaching these her colonists that their chief
virtue is to be fidelity to their country, and that their first aim is to be to advance the
power of England by land and sea: and that, though they live on a distant plot of ground, they
are no more to consider themselves therefore disfranchised from their native land, than the
sailors of her fleets do, because they float on distant waves. So that literally, these colonies
must be fastened fleets; and every man of them must be under authority of captains and officers,
whose better command is to be over fields and streets instead of ships of the line; and England,
in these her motionless navies (or, in the true and mightiest sense, motionless churches, ruled
by pilots on the Galilean lake[179] of all the world), is to "expect every man to do his duty";[180]
recognizing that duty is indeed possible no less in peace than war; and that if we can get
men, for little pay, to cast themselves against cannon-mouths for love of England, we may find
men also who will plough and sow for her, who will behave kindly and righteously for her, who
will bring up their children to love her, and who will gladden themselves in the brightness
of her glory, more than in all the light of tropic skies.

But that they may be able to do this, she must make her own majesty stainless; she must give
them thoughts of their home of which they can be proud. The England who is to be mistress of
half the earth, cannot remain herself a heap of cinders, trampled by contending and miserable
crowds; she must yet again become the England she was once, and in all beautiful ways,--more:
so happy, so secluded, and so pure, that in her sky--polluted by no unholy clouds--she may
be able to spell rightly of every star that heaven doth show; and in her fields, ordered and
wide and fair, of every herb that sips the dew;[181] and under the green avenues of her enchanted
garden, a sacred Circe, true Daughter of the Sun, she must guide the human arts, and gather
the divine knowledge, of distant nations, transformed from savageness to manhood, and redeemed
from despairing into Peace.

You think that an impossible ideal. Be it so; refuse to accept it if you will; but see that
you form your own in its stead. All that I ask of you is to have a fixed purpose of some kind
for your country and yourselves; no matter how restricted, so that it be fixed and unselfish.
I know what stout hearts are in you, to answer acknowledged need; but it is the fatallest form
of error in English youth to hide their hardihood till it fades for lack of sunshine, and to
act in disdain of purpose, till all purpose is vain. It is not by deliberate, but by careless
selfishness; not by compromise with evil, but by dull following of good, that the weight of
national evil increases upon us daily. Break through at least this pretence of existence; determine
what you will be, and what you would win. You will not decide wrongly if you resolve to decide
at all. Were even the choice between lawless pleasure and loyal suffering, you would not, I
believe, choose basely. But your trial is not so sharp. It is between drifting in confused
wreck among the castaways of Fortune, who condemns to assured ruin those who know not either
how to resist her, or obey; between this, I say, and the taking of your appointed part in the
heroism of Rest; the resolving to share in the victory which is to the weak rather than the
strong; and the binding yourselves by that law, which, thought on through lingering night and
labouring day, makes a man's life to be as a tree planted by the water-side, that bringeth
forth his fruit in his season;--

    "ET FOLIUM EJUS NON DEFLUET,
    ET OMNIA, QUÆCUNQUE FACIET, PROSPERABUNTUR."[182]

  [172] Turner.

  [173] The tool of the engraver on copper.

  [174] See Paradise Lost, 6. 207 ff., and Hesiod's Theogony, 676 ff.

  [175] Henry V, 4. 3. 29.

  [176] Luke ii, 14.

  [177] "Forward go the banners of the King," or more commonly, "The
  royal banners forward go." One of the seven great hymns of the Church.
  See the Episcopal Hymnal, 94.

  [178] Dante, Inferno, 3. 60. "Who made through cowardice the great
  refusal." Longfellow's tr.

  [179] Lyridas, 109.

  [180] Nelson's famous signal at Trafalgar.

  [181] Milton's Il Penseroso, 170 ff.

  [182] Psalms i, 3.

THE RELATION OF ART TO MORALS

And now I pass to the arts with which I have special concern, in which, though the facts are
exactly the same, I shall have more difficulty in proving my assertion, because very few of
us are as cognizant of the merit of painting as we are of that of language; and I can only
show you whence that merit springs, after having thoroughly shown you in what it consists.
But, in the meantime, I have simply to tell you, that the manual arts are as accurate exponents
of ethical state, as other modes of expression; first, with absolute precision, of that of
the workman; and then with precision, disguised by many distorting influences, of that of the
nation to which it belongs.

And, first, they are a perfect exponent of the mind of the workman: but, being so, remember,
if the mind be great or complex, the art is not an easy book to read; for we must ourselves
possess all the mental characters of which we are to read the signs. No man can read the evidence
of labour who is not himself laborious, for he does not know what the work cost: nor can he
read the evidence of true passion if he is not passionate; nor of gentleness if he is not gentle:
and the most subtle signs of fault and weakness of character he can only judge by having had
the same faults to fight with. I myself, for instance, know impatient work, and tired work,
better than most critics, because I am myself always impatient, and often tired:--so also,
the patient and indefatigable touch of a mighty master becomes more wonderful to me than to
others. Yet, wonderful in no mean measure it will be to you all, when I make it manifest;--and
as soon as we begin our real work, and you have learned what it is to draw a true line, I shall
be able to make manifest to you,--and undisputably so,--that the day's work of a man like Mantegna
or Paul Veronese consists of an unfaltering, uninterrupted, succession of movements of the
hand more precise than those of the finest fencer: the pencil leaving one point and arriving
at another, not only with unerring precision at the extremity of the line, but with an unerring
and yet varied course--sometimes over spaces a foot or more in extent--yet a course so determined
everywhere that either of these men could, and Veronese often does, draw a finished profile,
or any other portion of the contour of the face, with one line, not afterwards changed. Try,
first, to realize to yourselves the muscular precision of that action, and the intellectual
strain of it; for the movement of a fencer is perfect in practised monotony; but the movement
of the hand of a great painter is at every instant governed by direct and new intention. Then
imagine that muscular firmness and subtlety, and the instantaneously selective and ordinant
energy of the brain, sustained all day long, not only without fatigue, but with a visible joy
in the exertion, like that which an eagle seems to take in the wave of his wings; and this
all life long, and through long life, not only without failure of power, but with visible increase
of it, until the actually organic changes of old age. And then consider, so far as you know
anything of physiology, what sort of an ethical state of body and mind that means!--ethic through
ages past! what fineness of race there must be to get it, what exquisite balance and symmetry
of the vital powers! And then, finally, determine for yourselves whether a manhood like that
is consistent with any viciousness of soul, with any mean anxiety, any gnawing lust, any wretchedness
of spite or remorse, any consciousness of rebellion against law of God or man, or any actual,
though unconscious violation of even the least law to which obedience is essential for the
glory of life, and the pleasing of its Giver.

It is, of course, true that many of the strong masters had deep faults of character, but their
faults always show in their work. It is true that some could not govern their passions; if
so, they died young, or they painted ill when old. But the greater part of our misapprehension
in the whole matter is from our not having well known who the great painters were, and taking
delight in the petty skill that was bred in the fumes of the taverns of the North, instead
of theirs who breathed empyreal air, sons of the morning, under the woods of Assisi and the
crags of Cadore.

It is true however also, as I have pointed out long ago, that the strong masters fall into
two great divisions, one leading simple and natural lives, the other restrained in a Puritanism
of the worship of beauty; and these two manners of life you may recognize in a moment by their
work. Generally the naturalists are the strongest; but there are two of the Puritans, whose
work if I can succeed in making clearly understandable to you during my three years[183] here,
it is all I need care to do. But of these two Puritans one I cannot name to you, and the other
I at present will not. One I cannot, for no one knows his name, except the baptismal one, Bernard,
or "dear little Bernard"--Bernardino, called from his birthplace, (Luino, on the Lago Maggiore,)
Bernard of Luino. The other is a Venetian, of whom many of you probably have never heard, and
of whom, through me, you shall not hear, until I have tried to get some picture by him over
to England.

Observe then, this Puritanism in the worship of beauty, though sometimes weak, is always honourable
and amiable, and the exact reverse of the false Puritanism, which consists in the dread or
disdain of beauty. And in order to treat my subject rightly, I ought to proceed from the skill
of art to the choice of its subject, and show you how the moral temper of the workman is shown
by his seeking lovely forms and thoughts to express, as well as by the force of his hand in
expression. But I need not now urge this part of the proof on you, because you are already,
I believe, sufficiently conscious of the truth in this matter, and also I have already said
enough of it in my writings; whereas I have not at all said enough of the infallibleness of
fine technical work as a proof of every other good power. And indeed it was long before I myself
understood the true meaning of the pride of the greatest men in their mere execution, shown
for a permanent lesson to us, in the stories which, whether true or not, indicate with absolute
accuracy the general conviction of great artists;--the stories of the contest of Apelles and
Protogenes[184] in a line only, (of which I can promise you, you shall know the meaning to
some purpose in a little while),--the story of the circle of Giotto,[185] and especially, which
you may perhaps not have observed, the expression of Dürer in his inscription on the drawings
sent him by Raphael. These figures, he says, "Raphael drew and sent to Albert Dürer in Nurnberg,
to show him"--What? Not his invention, nor his beauty of expression, but "sein Hand zu weisen,"
"to show him his hand." And you will find, as you examine farther, that all inferior artists
are continually trying to escape from the necessity of sound work, and either indulging themselves
in their delights in subject, or pluming themselves on their noble motives for attempting what
they cannot perform; (and observe, by the way, that a great deal of what is mistaken for conscientious
motive is nothing but a very pestilent, because very subtle, condition of vanity); whereas
the great men always understand at once that the first morality of a painter, as of everybody
else, is to know his business; and so earnest are they in this, that many, whose lives you
would think, by the results of their work, had been passed in strong emotion, have in reality
subdued themselves, though capable of the very strongest passions, into a calm as absolute
as that of a deeply sheltered mountain lake, which reflects every agitation of the clouds in
the sky, and every change of the shadows on the hills, but AS itself motionless.

Finally, you must remember that great obscurity has been brought upon the truth in this matter
by the want of integrity and simplicity in our modern life. I mean integrity in the Latin sense,
wholeness. Everything is broken up, and mingled in confusion, both in our habits and thoughts;
besides being in great part imitative: so that you not only cannot tell what a man is, but
sometimes you cannot tell whether he is, at all!--whether you have indeed to do with a spirit,
or only with an echo. And thus the same inconsistencies appear now, between the work of artists
of merit and their personal characters, as those which you find continually disappointing expectation
in the lives of men of modern literary power;--the same conditions of society having obscured
or misdirected the best qualities of the imagination, both in our literature and art. Thus
there is no serious question with any of us as to the personal character of Dante and Giotto,
of Shakespeare and Holbein; but we pause timidly in the attempt to analyze the moral laws of
the art skill in recent poets, novelists, and painters.

Let me assure you once for all, that as you grow older, if you enable yourselves to distinguish
by the truth of your own lives, what is true in those of other men, you will gradually perceive
that all good has its origin in good, never in evil; that the fact of either literature or
painting being truly fine of their kind, whatever their mistaken aim, or partial error, is
proof of their noble origin: and that, if there is indeed sterling value in the thing done,
it has come of a sterling worth in the soul that did it, however alloyed or defiled by conditions
of sin which are sometimes more appalling or more strange than those which all may detect in
their own hearts, because they are part of a personality altogether larger than ours, and as
far beyond our judgment in its darkness as beyond our following in its light. And it is sufficient
warning against what some might dread as the probable effect of such a conviction on your own
minds, namely, that you might permit yourselves in the weaknesses which you imagined to be
allied to genius, when they took the form of personal temptations;--it is surely, I say, sufficient
warning against so mean a folly, to discern, as you may with little pains, that, of all human
existences, the lives of men of that distorted and tainted nobility of intellect are probably
the most miserable.

I pass to the second, and for us the more practically important question, What is the effect
of noble art upon other men; what has it done for national morality in time past: and what
effect is the extended knowledge or possession of it likely to have upon us now? And here we
are at once met by the facts, which are as gloomy as indisputable, that, while many peasant
populations, among whom scarcely the rudest practice of art has ever been attempted, have lived
in comparative innocence, honour, and happiness, the worst foulness and cruelty of savage tribes
have been frequently associated with fine ingenuities of decorative design; also, that no people
has ever attained the higher stages of art skill, except at a period of its civilization which
was sullied by frequent, violent, and even monstrous crime; and, lastly, that the attaining
of perfection in art power, has been hitherto, in every nation, the accurate signal of the
beginning of its ruin.

Respecting which phenomena, observe first, that although good never springs out of evil, it
is developed to its highest by contention with evil. There are some groups of peasantry, in
far-away nooks of Christian countries, who are nearly as innocent as lambs; but the morality
which gives power to art is the morality of men, not of cattle.

Secondly, the virtues of the inhabitants of many country districts are apparent, not real;
their lives are indeed artless, but not innocent; and it is only the monotony of circumstances,
and the absence of temptation, which prevent the exhibition of evil passions not less real
because often dormant, nor less foul because shown only in petty faults, or inactive malignities.

But you will observe also that absolute artlessness, to men in any kind of moral health, is
impossible; they have always, at least, the art by which they live--agriculture or seamanship;
and in these industries, skilfully practised, you will find the law of their moral training;
while, whatever the adversity of circumstances, every rightly-minded peasantry, such as that
of Sweden, Denmark, Bavaria, or Switzerland, has associated with its needful industry a quite
studied school of pleasurable art in dress; and generally also in song, and simple domestic
architecture.

Again, I need not repeat to you here what I endeavoured to explain in the first lecture in
the book I called The Two Paths, respecting the arts of savage races: but I may now note briefly
that such arts are the result of an intellectual activity which has found no room to expand,
and which the tyranny of nature or of man has condemned to disease through arrested growth.
And where neither Christianity, nor any other religion conveying some moral help, has reached,
the animal energy of such races necessarily flames into ghastly conditions of evil, and the
grotesque or frightful forms assumed by their art are precisely indicative of their distorted
moral nature.

But the truly great nations nearly always begin from a race possessing this imaginative power;
and for some time their progress is very slow, and their state not one of innocence, but of
feverish and faultful animal energy. This is gradually subdued and exalted into bright human
life; the art instinct purifying itself with the rest of the nature, until social perfectness
is nearly reached; and then comes the period when conscience and intellect are so highly developed,
that new forms of error begin in the inability to fulfil the demands of the one, or to answer
the doubts of the other. Then the wholeness of the people is lost; all kinds of hypocrisies
and oppositions of science develope themselves; their faith is questioned on one side, and
compromised with on the other; wealth commonly increases at the same period to a destructive
extent; luxury follows; and the ruin of the nation is then certain: while the arts, all this
time, are simply, as I said at first, the exponents of each phase of its moral state, and no
more control it in its political career than the gleam of the firefly guides its oscillation.
It is true that their most splendid results are usually obtained in the swiftness of the power
which is hurrying to the precipice; but to lay the charge of the catastrophe to the art by
which it is illumined, is to find a cause for the cataract in the hues of its iris. It is true
that the colossal vices belonging to periods of great national wealth (for wealth, you will
find, is the real root of all evil)[186] can turn every good gift and skill of nature or of
man to evil purpose. If, in such times, fair pictures have been misused, how much more fair
realities? And if Miranda is immoral to Caliban is that Miranda's fault?

  [183] As Slade Professor, Ruskin held a three years' appointment at
  Oxford.

  [184] This story comes from Pliny, Natural History, 35. 36; the
  two rival painters alternately showing their skill by the drawing
  of lines of increasing fineness.

  [185] This story comes from Vasari's Lives of the Painters. See
  Blashfield and Hopkins's ed. vol. 1, p. 61. Giotto was asked by a
  messenger of the Pope for a specimen of his work, and sent a perfect
  circle, drawn free hand.

  [186] Timothy vi, 10.

THE RELATION OF ART TO USE

Our subject of inquiry to-day, you will remember, is the mode in which fine art is founded
upon, or may contribute to, the practical requirements of human life.

Its offices in this respect are mainly twofold: it gives Form to knowledge, and Grace to utility;
that is to say, it makes permanently visible to us things which otherwise could neither be
described by our science, nor retained by our memory; and it gives delightfulness and worth
to the implements of daily use, and materials of dress, furniture and lodging. In the first
of these offices it gives precision and charm to truth; in the second it gives precision and
charm to service. For, the moment we make anything useful thoroughly, it is a law of nature
that we shall be pleased with ourselves, and with the thing we have made; and become desirous
therefore to adorn or complete it, in some dainty way, with finer art expressive of our pleasure.

And the point I wish chiefly to bring before you today is this close and healthy connection
of the fine arts with material use; but I must first try briefly to put in clear light the
function of art in giving Form to truth.

Much that I have hitherto tried to teach has been disputed on the ground that I have attached
too much importance to art as representing natural facts, and too little to it as a source
of pleasure. And I wish, in the close of these four prefatory lectures, strongly to assert
to you, and, so far as I can in the time, convince you, that the entire vitality of art depends
upon its being either full of truth, or full of use; and that, however pleasant, wonderful,
or impressive it may be in itself, it must yet be of inferior kind, and tend to deeper inferiority,
unless it has clearly one of these main objects,--either to state a true thing, or to adorn
a serviceable one. It must never exist alone,--never for itself; it exists rightly only when
it is the means of knowledge, or the grace of agency for life.

Now, I pray you to observe--for though I have said this often before, I have never yet said
it clearly enough--every good piece of art, to whichever of these ends it may be directed,
involves first essentially the evidence of human skill, and the formation of an actually beautiful
thing by it.

Skill and beauty, always, then; and, beyond these, the formative arts have always one or other
of the two objects which I have just defined to you--truth, or serviceableness; and without
these aims neither the skill nor their beauty will avail; only by these can either legitimately
reign. All the graphic arts begin in keeping the outline of shadow that we have loved, and
they end in giving to it the aspect of life; and all the architectural arts begin in the shaping
of the cup and the platter, and they end in a glorified roof.

Therefore, you see, in the graphic arts you have Skill, Beauty, and Likeness; and in the architectural
arts Skill, Beauty, and Use: and you must have the three in each group, balanced and co-ordinate;
and all the chief errors of art consist in losing or exaggerating one of these elements.

For instance, almost the whole system and hope of modern life are founded on the notion that
you may substitute mechanism for skill, photograph for picture, cast-iron for sculpture. That
is your main nineteenth-century faith, or infidelity. You think you can get everything by grinding--music,
literature, and painting. You will find it grievously not so; you can get nothing but dust
by mere grinding. Even to have the barley-meal out of it, you must have the barley first; and
that comes by growth, not grinding. But essentially, we have lost our delight in Skill; in
that majesty of it which I was trying to make clear to you in my last address, and which long
ago[187] I tried to express, under the head of ideas of power. The entire sense of that, we
have lost, because we ourselves do not take pains enough to do right, and have no conception
of what the right costs; so that all the joy and reverence we ought to feel in looking at a
strong man's work have ceased in us. We keep them yet a little in looking at a honeycomb or
a bird's-nest; we understand that these differ, by divinity of skill, from a lump of wax or
a cluster of sticks. But a picture, which is a much more wonderful thing than a honeycomb or
a bird's-nest,--have we not known people, and sensible people too, who expected to be taught
to produce that, in six lessons?

Well, you must have the skill, you must have the beauty, which is the highest moral element;
and then, lastly, you must have the verity or utility, which is not the moral, but the vital
element; and this desire for verity and use is the one aim of the three that always leads in
great schools, and in the minds of great masters, without any exception. They will permit themselves
in awkwardness, they will permit themselves in ugliness;--but they will never permit themselves
in uselessness or in unveracity.

And farther, as their skill increases, and as their grace, so much more their desire for truth.
It is impossible to find the three motives in fairer balance and harmony than in our own Reynolds.
He rejoices in showing you his skill; and those of you who succeed in learning what painters'
work really is, will one day rejoice also, even to laughter--that highest laughter which springs
of pure delight, in watching the fortitude and the fire of a hand which strikes forth its will
upon the canvas as easily as the wind strikes it on the sea. He rejoices in all abstract beauty
and rhythm and melody of design; he will never give you a colour that is not lovely, nor a
shade that is unnecessary, nor a line that is ungraceful. But all his power and all his invention
are held by him subordinate,--and the more obediently because of their nobleness,-to his true
leading purpose of setting before you such likeness of the living presence of an English gentleman
or an English lady, as shall be worthy of being looked upon for ever.

But farther, you remember, I hope--for I said it in a way that I thought would shock you a
little, that you might remember it--my statement, that art had never done more than this, never
more than given the likeness of a noble human being. Not only so, but it very seldom does so
much as this, and the best pictures that exist of the great schools are all portraits, or groups
of portraits, often of very simple and nowise noble persons. You may have much more brilliant
and impressive qualities in imaginative pictures; you may have figures scattered like clouds,
or garlanded like flowers; you may have light and shade as of a tempest, and colour, as of
the rainbow; but all that is child's play to the great men, though it is astonishment to us.
Their real strength is tried to the utmost, and as far as I know, it is never elsewhere brought
out so thoroughly, as in painting one man or woman, and the soul that was in them; nor that
always the highest soul, but often only a thwarted one that was capable of height; or perhaps
not even that, but faultful and poor, yet seen through, to the poor best of it, by the masterful
sight. So that in order to put before you in your Standard series the best art possible, I
am obliged, even from the very strongest men, to take the portraits, before I take the idealism.
Nay, whatever is best in the great compositions themselves has depended on portraiture; and
the study necessary to enable you to understand invention will also convince you that the mind
of man never invented a greater thing than the form of man, animated by faithful life. Every
attempt to refine or exalt such healthy humanity has weakened or caricatured it; or else consists
only in giving it, to please our fancy, the wings of birds, or the eyes of antelopes. Whatever
is truly great in either Greek or Christian art, is also restrictedly human; and even the raptures
of the redeemed souls who enter "celestemente ballando,"[188] the gate of Angelico's Paradise,
were seen first in the terrestrial, yet most pure, mirth of Florentine maidens.

I am aware that this cannot but at present appear gravely questionable to those of my audience
who are strictly cognizant of the phases of Greek art; for they know that the moment of its
decline is accurately marked, by its turning from abstract form to portraiture. But the reason
of this is simple. The progressive course of Greek art was in subduing monstrous conceptions
to natural ones; it did this by general laws; it reached absolute truth of generic human form,
and if its ethical force had remained, would have advanced into healthy portraiture. But at
the moment of change the national life ended in Greece; and portraiture, there, meant insult
to her religion, and flattery to her tyrants. And her skill perished, not because she became
true in sight, but because she became vile in heart....

But I have told you enough, it seems to me, at least to-day, of this function of art in recording
fact; let me now finally, and with all distinctness possible to me, state to you its main business
of all;--its service in the actual uses of daily life.

You are surprised, perhaps, to hear me call this its main business. That is indeed so, however.
The giving brightness to picture is much, but the giving brightness to life more. And remember,
were it as patterns only, you cannot, without the realities, have the pictures. You cannot
have a landscape by Turner without a country for him to paint; you cannot have a portrait by
Titian, without a man to be pourtrayed. I need not prove that to you, I suppose, in these short
terms; but in the outcome I can get no soul to believe that the beginning of art is in getting
our country clean, and our people beautiful. I have been ten years trying to get this very
plain certainty--I do not say believed--but even thought of, as anything but a monstrous proposition.
To get your country clean, and your people lovely;--I assure you that is a necessary work of
art to begin with! There has indeed been art in countries where people lived in dirt to serve
God, but never in countries where they lived in dirt to serve the devil. There has indeed been
art where the people were not all lovely,--where even their lips were thick--and their skins
black, because the sun had looked upon them;[189] but never in a country where the people were
pale with miserable toil and deadly shade, and where the lips of youth, instead of being full
with blood, were pinched by famine, or warped with poison. And now, therefore, note this well,
the gist of all these long prefatory talks. I said that the two great moral instincts were
those of Order and Kindness. Now, all the arts are founded on agriculture by the hand, and
on the graces and kindness of feeding, and dressing, and lodging your people. Greek art begins
in the gardens of Alcinous--perfect order, leeks in beds, and fountains in pipes.[190] And
Christian art, as it arose out of chivalry, was only possible so far as chivalry compelled
both kings and knights to care for the right personal training of their people; it perished
utterly when those kings and knights became [Greek: daemoboroi], devourers of the people. And
it will become possible again only, when, literally, the sword is beaten into the ploughshare,[191]
when your St. George of England shall justify his name,[192] and Christian art shall be known
as its Master was, in breaking of bread.[193]

Now look at the working out of this broad principle in minor detail; observe how, from highest
to lowest, health of art has first depended on reference to industrial use. There is first
the need of cup and platter, especially of cup; for you can put your meat on the Harpies',[194]
or any other, tables; but you must have your cup to drink from. And to hold it conveniently,
you must put a handle to it; and to fill it when it is empty you must have a large pitcher
of some sort; and to carry the pitcher you may most advisably have two handles. Modify the
forms of these needful possessions according to the various requirements of drinking largely
and drinking delicately; of pouring easily out, or of keeping for years the perfume in; of
storing in cellars, or bearing from fountains; of sacrificial libation, of Pan-athenaic treasure
of oil, and sepulchral treasure of ashes,--and you have a resultant series of beautiful form
and decoration, from the rude amphora of red earth up to Cellini's vases of gems and crystal,
in which series, but especially in the more simple conditions of it, are developed the most
beautiful lines and most perfect types of severe composition which have yet been attained by art.

But again, that you may fill your cup with pure water, you must go to the well or spring; you
need a fence round the well; you need some tube or trough, or other means of confining the
stream at the spring. For the conveyance of the current to any distance you must build either
enclosed or open aqueduct; and in the hot square of the city where you set it free, you find
it good for health and pleasantness to let it leap into a fountain. On these several needs
you have a school of sculpture founded; in the decoration of the walls of wells in level countries,
and of the sources of springs in mountainous ones, and chiefly of all, where the women of household
or market meet at the city fountain.

There is, however, a farther reason for the use of art here than in any other material service,
so far as we may, by art, express our reverence or thankfulness. Whenever a nation is in its
right mind, it always has a deep sense of divinity in the gift of rain from heaven, filling
its heart with food and gladness;[195] and all the more when that gift becomes gentle and perennial
in the flowing of springs. It literally is not possible that any fruitful power of the Muses
should be put forth upon a people which disdains their Helicon; still less is it possible that
any Christian nation should grow up "tanquam lignum quod plantatum est secus decursus aquarum,"[196]
which cannot recognize the lesson meant in their being told of the places where Rebekah was
met;--where Rachel,--where Zipporah,--and she who was asked for water under Mount Gerizim by
a Stranger, weary, who had nothing to draw with.[197]

And truly, when our mountain springs are set apart in vale or craggy glen, or glade of wood
green through the drought of summer, far from cities, then, it is best let them stay in their
own happy peace; but if near towns, and liable therefore to be defiled by common usage, we
could not use the loveliest art more worthily than by sheltering the spring and its first pools
with precious marbles: nor ought anything to be esteemed more important, as a means of healthy
education, than the care to keep the streams of it afterwards, to as great a distance as possible,
pure, full of fish, and easily accessible to children. There used to be, thirty years ago,
a little rivulet of the Wandel, about an inch deep, which ran over the carriage-road and under
a footbridge just under the last chalk hill near Croydon. Alas! men came and went; and it--did
not go on for ever. It has long since been bricked over by the parish authorities; but there
was more education in that stream with its minnows than you could get out of a thousand pounds
spent yearly in the parish schools, even though you were to spend every farthing of it in teaching
the nature of oxygen and hydrogen, and the names, and rate per minute, of all the rivers in
Asia and America.

Well, the gist of this matter lies here then. Suppose we want a school of pottery again in
England, all we poor artists are ready to do the best we can, to show you how pretty a line
may be that is twisted first to one side, and then to the other; and how a plain household-blue
will make a pattern on white; and how ideal art may be got out of the spaniel's colours of
black and tan. But I tell you beforehand, all that we can do will be utterly useless, unless
you teach your peasant to say grace, not only before meat, but before drink; and having provided
him with Greek cups and platters, provide him also with something that is not poisoned to put
into them.

There cannot be any need that I should trace for you the conditions of art that are directly
founded on serviceableness of dress, and of armour; but it is my duty to affirm to you, in
the most positive manner, that after recovering, for the poor, wholesomeness of food, your
next step toward founding schools of art in England must be in recovering, for the poor, decency
and wholesomeness of dress; thoroughly good in substance, fitted for their daily work, becoming
to their rank in life, and worn with order and dignity. And this order and dignity must be
taught them by the women of the upper and middle classes, whose minds can be in nothing right,
as long as they are so wrong in this matter us to endure the squalor of the poor, while they
themselves dress gaily. And on the proper pride and comfort of both poor and rich in dress,
must be founded the true arts of dress; carried on by masters of manufacture no less careful
of the perfectness and beauty of their tissues, and of all that in substance and in design
can be bestowed upon them, than ever the armourers of Milan and Damascus were careful of their
steel.

Then, in the third place, having recovered some wholesome habits of life as to food and dress,
we must recover them as to lodging. I said just now that the best architecture was but a glorified
roof. Think of it. The dome of the Vatican, the porches of Rheims or Chartres, the vaults and
arches of their aisles, the canopy of the tomb, and the spire of the belfry, are all forms
resulting from the mere requirement that a certain space shall be strongly covered from heat
and rain. More than that--as I have tried all through The Stones of Venice to show--the lovely
forms of these were every one of them developed in civil and domestic building, and only after
their invention employed ecclesiastically on the grandest scale. I think you cannot but have
noticed here in Oxford, as elsewhere, that our modern architects never seem to know what to
do with their roofs. Be assured, until the roofs are right, nothing else will be; and there
are just two ways of keeping them right. Never build them of iron, but only of wood or stone;
and secondly, take care that in every town the little roofs are built before the large ones,
and that everybody who wants one has got one. And we must try also to make everybody want one.
That is to say, at some not very advanced period of life, men should desire to have a home,
which they do not wish to quit any more, suited to their habits of life, and likely to be more
and more suitable to them until their death. And men must desire to have these their dwelling-places
built as strongly as possible, and furnished and decorated daintily, and set in pleasant places,
in bright light, and good air, being able to choose for themselves that at least as well as
swallows. And when the houses are grouped together in cities, men must have so much civic fellowship
as to subject their architecture to a common law, and so much civic pride as to desire that
the whole gathered group of human dwellings should be a lovely thing, not a frightful one,
on the face of the earth. Not many weeks ago an English clergyman,[198] a master of this University,
a man not given to sentiment, but of middle age, and great practical sense, told me, by accident,
and wholly without reference to the subject now before us, that he never could enter London
from his country parsonage but with closed eyes, lest the sight of the blocks of houses which
the railroad intersected in the suburbs should unfit him, by the horror of it, for his day's work.

Now, it is not possible--and I repeat to you, only in more deliberate assertion, what I wrote
just twenty-two years ago in the last chapter of the Seven Lamps of Architecture--it is not
possible to have any right morality, happiness, or art, in any country where the cities are
thus built, or thus, let me rather say, clotted and coagulated; spots of a dreadful mildew,
spreading by patches and blotches over the country they consume. You must have lovely cities,
crystallized, not coagulated, into form; limited in size, and not casting out the scum and
scurf of them into an encircling eruption of shame, but girded each with its sacred pomoerium,
and with garlands of gardens full of blossoming trees and softly guided streams.

  [187] In Modern Painters, vol. 1.

  [188] The quotation is from Vasari's account of Angelico's Last
  Judgment (now in the Accademia at Florence). [Cook and Wedderbum.]

  [189] Song of Solomon i, 6.

  [190] Cf. Classical Landscape, pp. 92-93.

  [191] Isaiah, ii, 4; Micah iv, 3; Joel iii, 10.

  [192] The name of St. George, the "Earthworker," or "Husbandman."
  [Ruskin.]

  [193] Luke xxiv, 35.

  [194] Virgil, Æneid, 3, 209. seqq. [Ruskin.]

  [195] Acts xiv, 17.

  [196] Psalms i, 3.

  [197] Genesis xxiv, 15, 16 and xxix, 10; Exodus ii, 16; John
  iv, 11.

  [198] Osborne Gordon. [Ruskin.]

ART AND HISTORY

ATHENA ERGANE

    This short selection is taken from the volume entitled The Queen
    of the Air, in which Ruskin, fascinated by the deep significance
    of the Greek myths and realizing the religious sincerity
    underlying them, attempts to interpret those that cluster about
    Athena. The book was published June 22, 1869. It is divided into
    three "Lectures," parts of which actually were delivered as
    lectures on different occasions, entitled respectively "Athena
    Chalinitis" (Athena in the Heavens), "Athena Keramitis" (Athena
    in the Earth), "Athena Ergane" (Athena in the Heart). The first
    lecture is the only one which keeps to the title of the book; in
    the others the legend is used merely as a starting-point for the
    expression of various pregnant ideas on social and historical
    problems. The book as a whole abounds in flashes of inspiration
    and insight, and is a favourite with many readers of Ruskin.
    Carlyle, in a letter to Froude, wrote: "Passages of that last
    book, Queen of the Air, went into my heart like arrows."

In different places of my writings, and through many years of endeavour to define the laws
of art, I have insisted on this Tightness in work, and on its connection with virtue of character,
in so many partial ways, that the impression left on the reader's mind--if, indeed, it was
ever impressed at all--has been confused and uncertain. In beginning the series of my corrected
works, I wish this principle (in my own mind the foundation of every other) to be made plain,
if nothing else is: and will try, therefore, to make it so, so far as, by any effort, I can
put it into unmistakable words. And, first, here is a very simple statement of it, given lately
in a lecture on the Architecture of the Valley of the Somme,[199] which will be better read
in this place than in its incidental connection with my account of the porches of Abbeville.

I had used, in a preceding part of the lecture, the expression, "by what faults" this Gothic
architecture fell. We continually speak thus of works of art. We talk of their faults and merits,
as of virtues and vices. What do we mean by talking of the faults of a picture, or the merits
of a piece of stone?

The faults of a work of art are the faults of its workman, and its virtues his virtues.

Great art is the expression of the mind of a great man, and mean art, that of the want of mind
of a weak man. A foolish person builds foolishly, and a wise one, sensibly; a virtuous one,
beautifully; and a vicious one, basely. If stone work is well put together, it means that a
thoughtful man planned it, and a careful man cut it, and an honest man cemented it. If it has
too much ornament, it means that its carver was too greedy of pleasure; if too little, that
he was rude, or insensitive, or stupid, and the like. So that when once you have learned how
to spell these most precious of all legends,--pictures and buildings,--you may read the characters
of men, and of nations, in their art, as in a mirror;--nay, as in a microscope, and magnified
a hundredfold; for the character becomes passionate in the art, and intensifies itself in all
its noblest or meanest delights. Nay, not only as in a microscope, but as under a scalpel,
and in dissection; for a man may hide himself from you, or misrepresent himself to you, every
other way; but he cannot in his work: there, be sure, you have him to the inmost. All that
he likes, all that he sees,--all that he can do,--his imagination, his affections, his perseverance,
his impatience, his clumsiness, cleverness, everything is there. If the work is a cobweb, you
know it was made by a spider; if a honeycomb, by a bee; a worm-cast is thrown up by a worm,
and a nest wreathed by a bird; and a house built by a man, worthily, if he is worthy, and ignobly,
if he is ignoble.

And always, from the least to the greatest, as the made thing is good or bad, so is the maker
of it.

You all use this faculty of judgment more or less, whether you theoretically admit the principle
or not. Take that floral gable;[200] you don't suppose the man who built Stonehenge could have
built that, or that the man who built that, would have built Stonehenge? Do you think an old
Roman would have liked such a piece of filigree work? or that Michael Angelo would have spent
his time in twisting these stems of roses in and out? Or, of modern handicraftsmen, do you
think a burglar, or a brute, or a pickpocket could have carved it? Could Bill Sykes have done
it? or the Dodger, dexterous with finger and tool? You will find in the end, that no man could
have done it but exactly the man who did it; and by looking close at it, you may, if you know
your letters, read precisely the manner of man he was.

Now I must insist on this matter, for a grave reason. Of all facts concerning art, this is
the one most necessary to be known, that, while manufacture is the work of hands only, art
is the work of the whole spirit of man; and as that spirit is, so is the deed of it: and by
whatever power of vice or virtue any art is produced, the same vice or virtue it reproduces
and teaches. That which is born of evil begets evil; and that which is born of valour and honour,
teaches valour and honour. Al art is either infection or education. It must be one or other
of these.

This, I repeat, of all truths respecting art, is the one of which understanding is the most
precious, and denial the most deadly. And I assert it the more, because it has of late been
repeatedly, expressly, and with contumely denied; and that by high authority: and I hold it
one of the most sorrowful facts connected with the decline of the arts among us, that English
gentlemen, of high standing as scholars and artists, should have been blinded into the acceptance,
and betrayed into the assertion of a fallacy which only authority such as theirs could have
rendered for an instant credible. For the contrary of it is written in the history of all great
nations; it is the one sentence always inscribed on the steps of their thrones; the one concordant
voice in which they speak to us out of their dust.

All such nations first manifest themselves as a pure and beautiful animal race, with intense
energy and imagination. They live lives of hardship by choice, and by grand instinct of manly
discipline: they become fierce and irresistible soldiers; the nation is always its own army,
and their king, or chief head of government, is always their first soldier. Pharaoh, or David,
or Leonidas, or Valerius, or Barbarossa, or Coeur de Lion, or St. Louis, or Dandolo, or Frederick
the Great:--Egyptian, Jew, Greek, Roman, German, English, French, Venetian,--that is inviolable
law for them all; their king must be their first soldier, or they cannot be in progressive
power. Then, after their great military period, comes the domestic period; in which, without
betraying the discipline of war, they add to their great soldiership the delights and possessions
of a delicate and tender home-life: and then, for all nations, is the time of their perfect
art, which is the fruit, the evidence, the reward of their national ideal of character, developed
by the finished care of the occupations of peace. That is the history of all true art that
ever was, or can be: palpably the history of it,--unmistakably,--written on the forehead of
it in letters of light,--in tongues of fire, by which the seal of virtue is branded as deep
as ever iron burnt into a convict's flesh the seal of crime. But always, hitherto, after the
great period, has followed the day of luxury, and pursuit of the arts for pleasure only. And
all has so ended.

Thus far of Abbeville building. Now I have here asserted two things,--first, the foundation
of art in moral character; next, the foundation of moral character in war. I must make both
these assertions clearer, and prove them.

First, of the foundation of art in moral character. Of course art-gift and amiability of disposition
are two different things. A good man is not necessarily a painter, nor does an eye for colour
necessarily imply an honest mind. But great art implies the union of both powers: it is the
expression, by an art-gift, of a pure soul. If the gift is not there, we can have no art at
all; and if the soul--and a right soul too--is not there, the art is bad, however dexterous.

But also, remember, that the art-gift itself is only the result of the moral character of generations.
A bad woman may have a sweet voice; but that sweetness of voice comes of the past morality
of her race. That she can sing with it at all, she owes to the determination of laws of music
by the morality of the past. Every act, every impulse, of virtue and vice, affects in any creature,
face, voice, nervous power, and vigour and harmony of invention, at once. Perseverance in rightness
of human conduct, renders, after a certain number of generations, human art possible; every
sin clouds it, be it ever so little a one; and persistent vicious living and following of pleasure
render, after a certain number of generations, all art impossible. Men are deceived by the
long-suffering of the laws of nature; and mistake, in a nation, the reward of the virtue of
its sires for the issue of its own sins. Let his art-gift be never so great, and cultivated
to the height by the schools of a great race of men; and it is still but a tapestry thrown
over his own being and inner soul; and the bearing of it will show, infallibly, whether it
hangs on a man, or on a skeleton. If you are dim-eyed, you may not see the difference in the
fall of the folds at first, but learn how to look, and the folds themselves will become transparent,
and you shall see through them the death's shape, or the divine one, making the tissue above
it as a cloud of light, or as a winding-sheet.

Then farther, observe, I have said (and you will find it true, and that to the uttermost) that,
as all lovely art is rooted in virtue, so it bears fruit of virtue, and is didactic in its
own nature. It is often didactic also in actually expressed thought, as Giotto's, Michael Angelo's,
Dürer's, and hundreds more; but that is not its special function,--it is didactic chiefly by
being beautiful; but beautiful with haunting thought, no less than with form, and full of myths
that can be read only with the heart.

For instance, at this moment there is open beside me as I write, a page of Persian manuscript,
wrought with wreathed azure and geld, and soft green, and violet, and ruby and scarlet, into
one field of pure resplendence. It is wrought to delight the eyes only; and does delight them;
and the man who did it assuredly had eyes in his head; but not much more. It is not didactic
art, but its author was happy: and it will do the good, and the harm, that mere pleasure can
do. But, opposite me, is an early Turner drawing of the lake of Geneva, taken about two miles
from Geneva, on the Lausanne road, with Mont Blanc in the distance. The old city is seen lying
beyond the waveless waters, veiled with a sweet misty veil of Athena's weaving: a faint light
of morning, peaceful exceedingly, and almost colourless, shed from behind the Voirons, increases
into soft amber along the slope of the Salève, and is just seen, and no more, on the fair warm
fields of its summit, between the folds of a white cloud that rests upon the grass, but rises,
high and towerlike, into the zenith of dawn above.

There is not as much colour in that low amber light upon the hill-side as there is in the palest
dead leaf. The lake is not blue, but grey in mist, passing into deep shadow beneath the Voirons'
pines; a few dark clusters of leaves, a single white flower--scarcely seen--are all the gladness
given to the rocks of the shore. One of the ruby spots of the eastern manuscript would give
colour enough for all the red that is in Turner's entire drawing. For the mere pleasure of
the eye, there is not so much in all those lines of his, throughout the entire landscape, as
in half an inch square of the Persian's page. What made him take pleasure in the low colour
that is only like the brown of a dead leaf? in the cold grey of dawn--in the one white flower
among the rocks--in these--and no more than these?

He took pleasure in them because he had been bred among English fields and hills; because the
gentleness of a great race was in his heart, and its power of thought in his brain; because
he knew the stories of the Alps, and of the cities at their feet; because he had read the Homeric
legends of the clouds, and beheld the gods of dawn, and the givers of dew to the fields; because
he knew the faces of the crags, and the imagery of the passionate mountains, as a man knows
the face of his friend; because he had in him the wonder and sorrow concerning life and death,
which are the inheritance of the Gothic soul from the days of its first sea kings; and also
the compassion and the joy that are woven into the innermost fabric of every great imaginative
spirit, born now in countries that have lived by the Christian faith with any courage or truth.
And the picture contains also, for us, just this which its maker had in him to give; and can
convey it to us, just so far as we are of the temper in which it must be received. It is didactic
if we are worthy to be taught, no otherwise. The pure heart, it will make more pure; the thoughtful,
more thoughtful. It has in it no words for the reckless or the base.

  [199] The Flamboyant Architecture of the Valley of the Somme, a
  lecture delivered at the Royal Institution, January 29, 1869.

  [200] The elaborate pediment above the central porch at the west
  end of Rouen Cathedral, pierced into a transparent web of tracery,
  and enriched with a border of "twisted eglantine." [Ruskin.]

  [201] Jeremiah xxxi, 29.

TRAFFIC

    "Traffic" is the second of the three lectures published May, 1866,
    in the volume entitled The Crown of Wild Olive. All these
    lectures were delivered in the years 1864 and 1865, but the one
    here printed was earliest. The occasion on which Ruskin addressed
    the people of Bradford is made sufficiently clear from the opening
    sentences. The lecture is important as emphasizing in a popular
    way some of his most characteristic economic theories.

2d. Even good things have no abiding power--and shall these evil things persist in victorious
evil? I know that even all this wrong and misery are brought about by a warped sense of duty,
each of you striving to do his best; but, unhappily, not knowing for whom this best should be done.

  [202] Delivered in the Town Hall, Bradford, April 21, 1864.

  [203] Matthew v, 6.

  [204] Scott's Lay of the Last Minstrel, canto 1, stanza 4.

  [205] The reference was to the reluctance of this country to take
  arms in defence of Denmark against Prussia and Austria. [Cook and
  Wedderburn.]

  [206] See, e.g., pp. 167 ff. and 270 ff.

  [207] Inigo Jones [1573-1652] and Sir Christopher Wren [1632-1723]
  were the best known architects of their respective generations.

  [208] Genesis xxviii, 17.

  [209] Matthew xxiv, 27.

  [210] Matthew vi, 6.

  [211] And all other arts, for the most part; even of incredulous
  and secularly-minded commonalties. [Ruskin.]

  [212] 1 Corinthians i, 23.

  [213] For further interpretation of Greek mythology see Ruskin's
  Queen of the Air. [Ruskin.]

  [215] Tetzel's trading in Papal indulgences aroused Luther to the
  protest which ended in the Reformation.

  [216] Matthew xxi, 12. [Ruskin.]

  [218] Meaning, fully, "We have brought our pigs to it." [Ruskin.]

  [219] Cf. Hamlet, 5. 1. 306.

  [220] Referring to a lecture on Modern Manufacture and Design,
  delivered at Bradford, March 1, 1859 published later as Lecture III
  in The Two Paths.

  [221] See Wordsworth's Rob Roy's Grave, 39-40.

  [222] 1 Kings x, 27.

  [223] A beautiful ruin in Yorkshire.

  [224] Cf. Tennyson's The Brook.

  [225] Genesis vi, 2.

  [226] Deuteronomy xxxii, 5.

  [227] Daniel iii, 1.

  [228] Proverbs iii, 17.

  [229] Acts vii, 48.

LIFE AND ITS ARTS

    This lecture, the full title of which is "The Mystery of Life and
    its Arts," was delivered in Dublin on May 13, 1868. It composed
    one of a series of afternoon lectures on various subjects,
    religion excepted, arranged by some of the foremost residents in
    Dublin. The latter half of the lecture is included in the present
    volume of selections. The first publication of the lecture was as
    an additional part to a revised edition of Sesame and Lilies in
    1871. Ruskin took exceptional care in writing "The Mystery of
    Life": he once said in conversation, "I put into it all that I
    know," and in the preface to it when published he tells us that
    certain passages of it "contain the best expression I have yet
    been able to put in words of what, so far as is within my power, I
    mean henceforward both to do myself, and to plead with all over
    whom I have any influence to do according to their means." Sir
    Leslie Stephen says this "is, to my mind, the most perfect of his
    essays." In later editions of Sesame and Lilies this lecture was
    withdrawn. At the time the lecture was delivered its tone was
    characteristic of Ruskin's own thought and of the attitude he then
    took toward the public.

We have sat at the feet of the poets who sang of heaven, and they have told us their dreams.
We have listened to the poets who sang of earth, and they have chanted to us dirges and words
of despair. But there is one class of men more:--men, not capable of vision, nor sensitive
to sorrow, but firm of purpose--practised in business; learned in all that can be, (by handling,)
known. Men, whose hearts and hopes are wholly in this present world, from whom, therefore,
we may surely learn, at least, how, at present, conveniently to live in it. What will they
say to us, or show us by example? These kings--these councillors--these statesmen and builders
of kingdoms--these capitalists and men of business, who weigh the earth, and the dust of it,
in a balance.[230] They know the world, surely; and what is the mystery of life to us, is none
to them. They can surely show us how to live, while we live, and to gather out of the present
world what is best.

I think I can best tell you their answer, by telling you a dream I had once. For though I am
no poet, I have dreams sometimes:--I dreamed I was at a child's May-day party, in which every
means of entertainment had been provided for them, by a wise and kind host. It was in a stately
house, with beautiful gardens attached to it; and the children had been set free in the rooms
and gardens, with no care whatever but how to pass their afternoon rejoicingly. They did not,
indeed, know much about what was to happen next day; and some of them, I thought, were a little
frightened, because there was a chance of their being sent to a new school where there were
examinations; but they kept the thoughts of that out of their heads as well as they could,
and resolved to enjoy themselves. The house, I said, was in a beautiful garden, and in the
garden were all kinds of flowers; sweet, grassy banks for rest; and smooth lawns for play;
and pleasant streams and woods; and rocky places for climbing. And the children were happy
for a little while, but presently they separated themselves into parties; and then each party
declared it would have a piece of the garden for its own, and that none of the others should
have anything to do with that piece. Next, they quarrelled violently which pieces they would
have; and at last the boys took up the thing, as boys should do, "practically," and fought
in the flower-beds till there was hardly a flower left standing; then they trampled down each
other's bits of the garden out of spite; and the girls cried till they could cry no more; and
so they all lay down at last breathless in the ruin, and waited for the time when they were
to be taken home in the evening.[231]

Meanwhile, the children in the house had been making themselves happy also in their manner.
For them, there had been provided every kind of in-door pleasure: there was music for them
to dance to; and the library was open, with all manner of amusing books; and there was a museum
full of the most curious shells, and animals, and birds; and there was a workshop, with lathes
and carpenters' tools, for the ingenious boys; and there were pretty fantastic dresses, for
the girls to dress in; and there were microscopes, and kaleidoscopes; and whatever toys a child
could fancy; and a table, in the dining-room, loaded with everything nice to eat.

But, in the midst of all this, it struck two or three of the more "practical" children, that
they would like some of the brass-headed nails that studded the chairs; and so they set to
work to pull them out. Presently, the others, who were reading, or looking at shells, took
a fancy to do the like; and, in a little while, all the children, nearly, were spraining their
fingers, in pulling out brass-headed nails. With all that they could pull out, they were not
satisfied; and then, everybody wanted some of somebody else's. And at last, the really practical
and sensible ones declared, that nothing was of any real consequence, that afternoon, except
to get plenty of brass-headed nails; and that the books, and the cakes, and the microscopes
were of no use at all in themselves, but only, if they could be exchanged for nail-heads. And
at last they began to fight for nail-heads, as the others fought for the bits of garden. Only
here and there, a despised one shrank away into a corner, and tried to get a little quiet with
a book, in the midst of the noise; but all the practical ones thought of nothing else but counting
nail-heads all the afternoon--even though they knew they would not be allowed to carry so much
as one brass knob away with them. But no--it was--"who has most nails? I have a hundred, and
you have fifty; or, I have a thousand, and you have two. I must have as many as you before
I leave the house, or I cannot possibly go home in peace." At last, they made so much noise
that I awoke, and thought to myself, "What a false dream that is, of children!" The child is
the father of the man;[232] and wiser. Children never do such foolish things. Only men do.

But there is yet one last class of persons to be interrogated. The wise religious men we have
asked in vain; the wise contemplative men, in vain; the wise worldly men, in vain. But there
is another group yet. In the midst of this vanity of empty religion--of tragic contemplation--of
wrathful and wretched ambition, and dispute for dust, there is yet one great group of persons,
by whom all these disputers live--the persons who have determined, or have had it by a beneficent
Providence determined for them, that they will do something useful; that whatever may be prepared
for them hereafter, or happen to them here, they will, at least, deserve the food that God
gives them by winning it honourably: and that, however fallen from the purity, or far from
the peace, of Eden, they will carry out the duty of human dominion, though they have lost its
felicity; and dress and keep the wilderness,[233] though they no more can dress or keep the garden.

These,--hewers of wood, and drawers of water,[234]--these, bent under burdens, or torn of scourges--these,
that dig and weave--that plant and build; workers in wood, and in marble, and in iron--by whom
all food, clothing, habitation, furniture, and means of delight are produced, for themselves,
and for all men beside; men, whose deeds are good, though their words may be few; men, whose
lives are serviceable, be they never so short, and worthy of honour, be they never so humble;--from
these, surely, at least, we may receive some clear message of teaching; and pierce, for an
instant, into the mystery of life, and of its arts.

Yes; from these, at last, we do receive a lesson. But I grieve to say, or rather--for that
is the deeper truth of the matter--I rejoice to say--this message of theirs can only be received
by joining them--not by thinking about them.

You sent for me to talk to you of art; and I have obeyed you in coming. But the main thing
I have to tell you is,--that art must not be talked about. The fact that there is talk about
it at all, signifies that it is ill done, or cannot be done. No true painter ever speaks, or
ever has spoken, much of his art. The greatest speak nothing. Even Reynolds is no exception,
for he wrote of all that he could not himself do,[235] and was utterly silent respecting all
that he himself did.

The moment a man can really do his work he becomes speechless about it. All words become idle
to him--all theories.

Does a bird need to theorize about building its nest, or boast of it when built? All good work
is essentially done that way--without hesitation, without difficulty, without boasting; and
in the doers of the best, there is an inner and involuntary power which approximates literally
to the instinct of an animal--nay, I am certain that in the most perfect human artists, reason
does not supersede instinct, but is added to an instinct as much more divine than that of the
lower animals as the human body is more beautiful than theirs; that a great singer sings not
with less instinct than the nightingale, but with more--only more various, applicable, and
governable; that a great architect does not build with less instinct than the beaver or the
bee, but with more--with an innate cunning of proportion that embraces all beauty, and a divine
ingenuity of skill that improvises all construction. But be that as it may--be the instinct
less or more than that of inferior animals--like or unlike theirs, still the human art is dependent
on that first, and then upon an amount of practice, of science,--and of imagination disciplined
by thought, which the true possessor of it knows to be incommunicable, and the true critic
of it, inexplicable, except through long process of laborious years. That journey of life's
conquest, in which hills over hills, and Alps on Alps arose, and sank,--do you think you can
make another trace it painlessly, by talking? Why, you cannot even carry us up an Alp, by talking.
You can guide us up it, step by step, no otherwise--even so, best silently. You girls, who
have been among the hills, know how the bad guide chatters and gesticulates, and it is "put
your foot here"; and "mind how you balance yourself there"; but the good guide walks on quietly,
without a word, only with his eyes on you when need is, and his arm like an iron bar, if need be.

In that slow way, also, art can be taught--if you have faith in your guide, and will let his
arm be to you as an iron bar when need is. But in what teacher of art have you such faith?
Certainly not in me; for, as I told you at first, I know well enough it is only because you
think I can talk, not because you think I know my business, that you let me speak to you at
all. If I were to tell you anything that seemed to you strange, you would not believe it, and
yet it would only be in telling you strange things that I could be of use to you. I could be
of great use to you--infinite use--with brief saying, if you would believe it; but you would
not, just because the thing that would be of real use would displease you. You are all wild,
for instance, with admiration of Gustave Doré. Well, suppose I were to tell you, in the strongest
terms I could use, that Gustave Doré's art was bad--bad, not in weakness,--not in failure,--but
bad with dreadful power--the power of the Furies and the Harpies mingled, enraging, and polluting;
that so long as you looked at it, no perception of pure or beautiful art was possible for you.
Suppose I were to tell you that! What would be the use? Would you look at Gustave Doré less?
Rather, more, I fancy. On the other hand, I could soon put you into good humour with me, if
I chose. I know well enough what you like, and how to praise it to your better liking. I could
talk to you about moonlight, and twilight, and spring flowers, and autumn leaves, and the Madonnas
of Raphael--how motherly! and the Sibyls of Michael Angelo--how majestic! and the Saints of
Angelico--how pious! and the Cherubs of Correggio--how delicious! Old as I am, I could play
you a tune on the harp yet, that you would dance to. But neither you nor I should be a bit
the better or wiser; or, if we were, our increased wisdom could be of no practical effect.
For, indeed, the arts, as regards teachableness, differ from the sciences also in this, that
their power is founded not merely on facts which can be communicated, but on dispositions which
require to be created. Art is neither to be achieved by effort of thinking, nor explained by
accuracy of speaking. It is the instinctive and necessary result of power, which can only be
developed through the mind of successive generations, and which finally burst into life under
social conditions as slow of growth as the faculties they regulate. Whole æras of mighty history
are summed, and the passions of dead myriads are concentrated, in the existence of a noble
art; and if that noble art were among us, we should feel it and rejoice; not caring in the
least to hear lectures on it; and since it is not among us, be assured we have to go back to
the root of it, or, at least, to the place where the stock of it is yet alive, and the branches
began to die.

And now, may I have your pardon for pointing out, partly with reference to matters which are
at this time of greater moment than the arts--that if we undertook such recession to the vital
germ of national arts that have decayed, we should find a more singular arrest of their power
in Ireland than in any other European country. For in the eighth century Ireland possessed
a school of art in her manuscripts and sculpture, which, in many of its qualities--apparently
in all essential qualities of decorative invention--was quite without rival; seeming as if
it might have advanced to the highest triumphs in architecture and in painting. But there was
one fatal flaw in its nature, by which it was stayed, and stayed with a conspicuousness of
pause to which there is no parallel: so that, long ago, in tracing the progress of European
schools from infancy to strength, I chose for the students of Kensington, in a lecture since
published, two characteristic examples of early art, of equal skill; but in the one case, skill
which was progressive--in the other, skill which was at pause. In the one case, it was work
receptive of correction--hungry for correction; and in the other, work which inherently rejected
correction. I chose for them a corrigible Eve, and an incorrigible Angel, and I grieve to say[236]
that the incorrigible Angel was also an Irish angel!

And the fatal difference lay wholly in this. In both pieces of art there was an equal falling
short of the needs of fact; but the Lombardic Eve knew she was in the wrong, and the Irish
Angel thought himself all right. The eager Lombardic sculptor, though firmly insisting on his
childish idea, yet showed in the irregular broken touches of the features, and the imperfect
struggle for softer lines in the form, a perception of beauty and law that he could not render;
there was the strain of effort, under conscious imperfection, in every line. But the Irish
missal-painter had drawn his angel with no sense of failure, in happy complacency, and put
red dots into the palms of each hand, and rounded the eyes into perfect circles, and, I regret
to say, left the mouth out altogether, with perfect satisfaction to himself.

May I without offence ask you to consider whether this mode of arrest in ancient Irish art
may not be indicative of points of character which even yet, in some measure, arrest your national
power? I have seen much of Irish character, and have watched it closely, for I have also much
loved it. And I think the form of failure to which it is most liable is this,--that being generous-hearted,
and wholly intending always to do right, it does not attend to the external laws of right,
but thinks it must necessarily do right because it means to do so, and therefore does wrong
without finding it out; and then, when the consequences of its wrong come upon it, or upon
others connected with it, it cannot conceive that the wrong is in any wise of its causing or
of its doing, but flies into wrath, and a strange agony of desire for justice, as feeling itself
wholly innocent, which leads it farther astray, until there is nothing that it is not capable
of doing with a good conscience.

But mind, I do not mean to say that, in past or present relations between Ireland and England,
you have been wrong, and we right. Far from that, I believe that in all great questions of
principle, and in all details of administration of law, you have been usually right, and we
wrong; sometimes in misunderstanding you, sometimes in resolute iniquity to you. Is our life
for ever to be without profit--without possession?

"The work of men"--and what is that? Well, we may any of us know very quickly, on the condition
of being wholly ready to do it. But many of us are for the most part thinking, not of what
we are to do, but of what we are to get; and the best of us are sunk into the sin of Ananias,[256]
and it is a mortal one--we want to keep back part of the price; and we continually talk of
taking up our cross, as if the only harm in a cross was the weight of it--as if it was only
a thing to be carried, instead of to be--crucified upon. "They that are His have crucified
the flesh, with the affections and lusts."[257] Does that mean, think you, that in time of
national distress, of religious trial, of crisis for every interest and hope of humanity--none
of us will cease jesting, none cease idling, none put themselves to any wholesome work, none
take so much as a tag of lace off their footmen's coats, to save the world? Or does it rather
mean, that they are ready to leave houses, lands, and kindreds--yes, and life, if need be?
Life!--some of us are ready enough to throw that away, joyless as we have made it. But "station
in Life"--how many of us are ready to quit that? Is it not always the great objection, where
there is question of finding something useful to do--"We cannot leave our stations in Life"?

Those of us who really cannot--that is to say, who can only maintain themselves by continuing
in some business or salaried office, have already something to do; and all that they have to
see to is, that they do it honestly and with all their might. But with most people who use
that apology, "remaining in the station of life to which Providence has called them" means
keeping all the carriages, and all the footmen and large houses they can possibly pay for;
and, once for all, I say that if ever Providence did put them into stations of that sort--which
is not at all a matter of certainty--Providence is just now very distinctly calling them out
again. Levi's station in life was the receipt of custom; and Peter's, the shore of Galilee;
and Paul's, the antechambers of the High Priest,--which "station in life" each had to leave,
with brief notice.

And, whatever our station in life may be, at this crisis, those of us who mean to fulfil our
duty ought first to live on as little as we can; and, secondly, to do all the wholesome work
for it we can, and to spend all we can spare in doing all the sure good we can.

And sure good is, first in feeding people, then in dressing people, then in lodging people,
and lastly in rightly pleasing people, with arts, or sciences, or any other subject of thought.

I say first in feeding; and, once for all, do not let yourselves be deceived by any of the
common talk of "indiscriminate charity." The order to us is not to feed the deserving hungry,
nor the industrious hungry, nor the amiable and well-intentioned hungry, but simply to feed
the hungry.[258] It is quite true, infallibly true, that if any man will not work, neither
should he eat[259]--think of that, and every time you sit down to your dinner, ladies and gentlemen,
say solemnly, before you ask a blessing, "How much work have I done to-day for my dinner?"
But the proper way to enforce that order on those below you, as well as on yourselves, is not
to leave vagabonds and honest people to starve together, but very distinctly to discern and
seize your vagabond; and shut your vagabond up out of honest people's way, and very sternly
then see that, until he has worked, he does not eat. But the first thing is to be sure you
have the food to give; and, therefore, to enforce the organization of vast activities in agriculture
and in commerce, for the production of the wholesomest food, and proper storing and distribution
of it, so that no famine shall any more be possible among civilized beings There is plenty
of work in this business alone, and at once, for any number of people who like to engage in it.

Secondly, dressing people--that is to say, urging every one within reach of your influence
to be always neat and clean, and giving them means of being so. In so far as they absolutely
refuse, you must give up the effort with respect to them, only taking care that no children
within your sphere of influence shall any more be brought up with such habits; and that every
person who is willing to dress with propriety shall have encouragement to do so. And the first
absolutely necessary step towards this is the gradual adoption of a consistent dress for different
ranks of persons, so that their rank shall be known by their dress; and the restriction of
the changes of fashion within certain limits. All which appears for the present quite impossible;
but it is only so far even difficult as it is difficult to conquer our vanity, frivolity, and
desire to appear what we are not. And it is not, nor ever shall be, creed of mine, that these
mean and shallow vices are unconquerable by Christian women.

And then, thirdly, lodging people, which you may think should have been put first, but I put
it third, because we must feed and clothe people where we find them, and lodge them afterwards.
And providing lodgment for them means a great deal of vigorous legislation, and cutting down
of vested interests that stand in the way, and after that, or before that, so far as we can
get it, thorough sanitary and remedial action in the houses that we have; and then the building
of more, strongly, beautifully, and in groups of limited extent, kept in proportion to their
streams, and walled round, so that there may be no festering and wretched suburb anywhere,
but clean and busy street within, and the open country without, with a belt of beautiful garden
and orchard round the walls, so that from any part of the city perfectly fresh air and grass,
and the sight of far horizon, might be reachable in a few minutes' walk. This is the final
aim; but in immediate action every minor and possible good to be instantly done, when, and
as, we can; roofs mended that have holes in them--fences patched that have gaps in them--walls
buttressed that totter--and floors propped that shake; cleanliness and order enforced with
our own hands and eyes, till we are breathless, every day. And all the fine arts will healthily
follow. I myself have washed a flight of stone stairs all down, with bucket and broom, in a
Savoy inn, where they hadn't washed their stairs since they first went up them; and I never
made a better sketch than that afternoon.

These, then, are the three first needs of civilized life; and the law for every Christian man
and woman is, that they shall be in direct service towards one of these three needs, as far
as is consistent with their own special occupation, and if they have no special business, then
wholly in one of these services. And out of such exertion in plain duty all other good will
come; for in this direct contention with material evil, you will find out the real nature of
all evil; you will discern by the various kinds of resistance, what is really the fault and
main antagonism to good; also you will find the most unexpected helps and profound lessons
given, and truths will come thus down to us which the speculation of all our lives would never
have raised us up to. You will find nearly every educational problem solved, as soon as you
truly want to do something; everybody will become of use in their own fittest way, and will
learn what is best for them to know in that use. Competitive examination will then, and not
till then, be wholesome, because it will be daily, and calm, and in practice; and on these
familiar arts, and minute, but certain and serviceable knowledges, will be surely edified and
sustained the greater arts and splendid theoretical sciences.

But much more than this. On such holy and simple practice will be founded, indeed, at last,
an infallible religion. The greatest of all the mysteries of life, and the most terrible, is
the corruption of even the sincerest religion, which is not daily founded on rational, effective,
humble, and helpful action. Helpful action, observe! for there is just one law, which obeyed,
keeps all religions pure--forgotten, makes them all false. Whenever in any religious faith,
dark or bright, we allow our minds to dwell upon the points in which we differ from other people,
we are wrong, and in the devil's power. That is the essence of the Pharisee's thanksgiving--"Lord,
I thank Thee that I am not as other men are."[260] At every moment of our lives we should be
trying to find out, not in what we differ with other people, but in what we agree with them;
and the moment we find we can agree as to anything that should be done, kind or good, (and
who but fools couldn't?) then do it; push at it together: you can't quarrel in a side-by-side
push; but the moment that even the best men stop pushing, and begin talking, they mistake their
pugnacity for piety, and if's all over. I will not speak of the crimes which in past times
have been committed in the name of Christ, nor of the follies which are at this hour held to
be consistent with obedience to Him; but I will speak of the morbid corruption and waste of
vital power in religious sentiment, by which the pure strength of that which should be the
guiding soul of every nation, the splendour of its youthful manhood, and spotless light of
its maidenhood, is averted or cast away. You may see continually girls who have never been
taught to do a single useful thing thoroughly; who cannot sew, who cannot cook, who cannot
cast an account, nor prepare a medicine, whose whole life has been passed either in play or
in pride; you will find girls like these, when they are earnest-hearted, cast all their innate
passion of religious spirit, which was meant by God to support them through the irksomeness
of daily toil, into grievous and vain meditation over the meaning of the great Book, of which
no syllable was ever yet to be understood but through a deed; all the instinctive wisdom and
mercy of their womanhood made vain, and the glory of their pure consciences warped into fruitless
agony concerning questions which the laws of common serviceable life would have either solved
for them in an instant, or kept out of their way. Give such a girl any true work that will
make her active in the dawn, and weary at night, with the consciousness that her fellow-creatures
have indeed been the better for her day, and the powerless sorrow of her enthusiasm will transform
itself into a majesty of radiant and beneficent peace.

So with our youths. We once taught them to make Latin verses, and called them educated; now
we teach them to leap and to row, to hit a ball with a bat, and call them educated. Can they
plough, can they sow, can they plant at the right time, or build with a steady hand? Is it
the effort of their lives to be chaste, knightly, faithful, holy in thought, lovely in word
and deed? Indeed it is, with some, nay with many, and the strength of England is in them, and
the hope; but we have to turn their courage from the toil of war to the toil of mercy; and
their intellect from dispute of words to discernment of things; and their knighthood from the
errantry of adventure to the state and fidelity of a kingly power. And then, indeed, shall
abide, for them, and for us, an incorruptible felicity, and an infallible religion; shall abide
for us Faith, no more to be assailed by temptation, no more to be defended by wrath and by
fear;--shall abide with us Hope, no more to be quenched by the years that overwhelm, or made
ashamed by the shadows that betray:--shall abide for us, and with us, the greatest of these;
the abiding will, the abiding name of our Father. For the greatest of these is Charity.[261]

  [230] Isaiah xl, 12.

  [231] I have sometimes been asked what this means. I intended it to
  set forth the wisdom of men in war contending for kingdoms, and
  what follows to set forth their wisdom in peace, contending for
  wealth. [Ruskin.]

  [232] See Wordsworth's poem, My heart leaps up when I behold.

  [233] See Genesis ii, 15, and the opening lines of the first
  selection in this volume.

  [234] Joshua ix, 21.

  [235] In his Discourses on Art. Cf. pp. 24 ff. above.

  [236] See The Two Paths, §§ 28 et seq. [Ruskin.]

  [237] References mainly to the Irish Land Question, on which Ruskin
  agreed with Mill and Gladstone in advocating the establishment of a
  peasant-proprietorship in Ireland.

  [238] Genesis iii, 19.

  [239] Ecclesiastes ix, 10.

  [240] Hebrews xi, 4.

  [241] During the famine in the Indian province of Orissa.

  [242] Athena, goddess of weaving.

  [243] Proverbs xxxi, 19-22, 24.

  [244] Jeremiah xxxviii, 11.

  [245] Matthew xxv, 43.

  [246] Matthew xxv, 43.

  [247] Revelation vi, 13.

  [248] Jeremiah xi, 8.

  [249] James iv, 14.

  [250] Psalms xxxix, 6 and Revelation xiv, 11.

  [251] Ecclesiastes ix, 10.

  [252] Psalms civ, 4.

  [253] Revelation i, 7.

  [254] Daniel vii, 10.

  [255] Dies Iræ, the name generally given (from the opening words)
  to the most famous of the mediæval hymns, usually ascribed to the
  Franciscan Thomas of Celano (died c. 1255). It is composed in
  triplets of rhyming trochaic tetrameters, and describes the Last
  Judgment in language of magnificent grandeur, passing into a
  plaintive plea for the souls of the dead.

  [256] Acts v, 1, 2.

  [257] Galatians v. 24.

  [258] Isaiah lviii, 7.

  [259] 2 Thessalonians iii, 10.

  [260] Luke xviii, 11.

  [261] 1 Corinthians xiii, 13.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL NOTE

Editions. The standard edition of Ruskin is that of Cook and
      Wedderburn in 34 volumes. Most of his better-known works may
      be had in cheap and convenient forms.

The best lives are:

COLLINGWOOD, W.G. The Life and Work of John Ruskin Houghton Mifflin
      Company, 1893. (2 vols.) The standard biography.

HARRISON, P. John Ruskin (English Men of Letters). The Macmillan
      Company, 1902. A short and readable biography.

