On the 30th a reconnaissance in force was made along the Gatsrand in a westerly direction,
the left half-battalion of the Royal Dublin Fusiliers acting as the infantry of the force.
Moving along the summits of the hills in four lines of widely extended companies, they marched
to within sight of Frederickstadt before they returned. Imagine exaggerated Pyramids of Cheops;
imagine each block of stone carved by stress of weather into a thousand needle-points and ankle-twisting
crevices; plant a dense growth of mimosa and other thorny scrub in every cranny and interstice.
Take a dozen such pyramids, and do your morning constitutional over them, after the scrappiest
of breakfasts at 5 a.m., and you will find twelve or fourteen miles quite as much as you care
about. But the march was not devoid of interest, though we met with no Boers. Small buck, hares,
and partridges were there in sufficient number to afford a good day's sport under other circumstances,
while a profusion of various kinds of flowers afforded satisfaction to the eye, in strong contrast
to the bare and barkless trunks of trees riven by the frequent storms that devastate these
hills. In one place a most gruesome sight was met with. Under a small tree beside a tiny stream
stood a three-legged cooking-pot, and round it lay three skeletons, with a scattering of shrapnel
bullets to silently tell the story of the tragedy. Beside one body lay a Rifleman's haversack,
an eloquent if speechless travesty on the fortunes of war, for undoubtedly they were the remains
of Boers, over whose head a chance shrapnel must have burst months before.

A similar reconnaissance, but in the opposite direction, was made next day, resulting in one
man being wounded. Convoys were also passing to and fro, and on the 2nd, Captain Fetherstonhaugh
took over the duties of provost-marshal, temporarily, from Captain Thompson, of the Somersetshire
Light Infantry, who had hurt his knee. Rumours of an early move also began to circulate, with
the Losberg, the grim and solitary hill rising out of the plain to the south of the Gatsrand,
as our probable destination. For some time past the Boers had used it as a sort of headquarters
and rallying-place for their frequent raiding parties. Columns were now converging on it from
all points of the compass, but as they could be plainly seen from its summit, the high hopes
entertained in some quarters of rounding up a large number of the enemy were not shared by
everybody.

Yet the start at 9 p.m. on the 3rd was sufficiently impressive. The officers were assembled,
and had their several duties clearly pointed out to them, one peak of the hill being assigned
to the South Wales Borderers and the other to the Dublin Fusiliers. To 'A' company of the latter
regiment, under Major English, was given the honour of leading the attack, which was to be
made at dawn next morning. Silently and with all due precautions the column slowly wound its
way down the pass, like some gigantic boa-constrictor, and out on to the plain below. Whenever
a farm was reached it was entered, and steps taken to prevent lights being shown or signals
flashed: three Boers, booted and spurred, being taken in one. It was a perfect night for marching,
all Nature hushed in deep repose save the loud-mouthed bull-frog; the moon set an hour before
dawn, reminding one of Whyte-Melville's line:

  'The darkest hour of all the night is that which brings the day.'

But dark as it was our objective could be seen ominously looming up--a lamp-black mass against
the velvet softness of starlit sky. The movement had been admirably timed, and as day broke
the two regiments advanced to the attack, the South Wales Borderers on the right, the Dublins
on the left, while the artillery opened fire against the hillside between the two summits.
But that was all. Not a shot was fired in return. Not a Boer was even seen. Nothing. Except,
indeed, large quantities of most delicious and most acceptable oranges, after eating which
the tired troops lay in the rain, which commenced to pour down, and slept peacefully till the
transport came up.

Before we started next morning, a huge herd of blesbok suddenly appeared on the scene, wildly
galloping about in every direction, being continually brought up by the barbed wire fences
of the farms. A good many were shot, but it was cruel to kill them, or try to, with hard bullets,
and many and many a beast must have got away badly wounded, whilst the indiscriminate manner
in which the sportsmen fired in all directions was a source of danger, not only to themselves
and the buck, but to the camp as well. One fine old fellow, with a good head, charged right
through the camp, altogether eluding one regiment, in spite of every variety of missile, from
cooking-pots to helmets, to finally fall a victim in another regiment's lines to a tent-pole.
After which interlude the force marched to Modderfontein.

Next day a helio from Bank directed the column to make its way to that station, a party of
the South Wales Borderers being left behind to watch the pass at Modderfontein, where they
were to have a rough experience later on. The remainder of the force moved to Bank on the 7th,
and marched again the same night for Krugersdorp, making a total distance of thirty-three miles
in the twenty-four hours, a good wind-up to the three weeks' trek. An enormous number of cattle
and sheep were brought in, but it was the end of the Pochefstroom column, which was now finally
broken up into a number of small posts.

The regiment camped once more on the same site it had last occupied.

CHAPTER VI.

BURIED TREASURE--THE EASTERN TRANSVAAL--THE KRUGERSDORP DEFENCES.

  'They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the
  rock for want of a shelter.'--Job, xxiv. 8.

By this time we had begun to regard Krugersdorp as our base, and to look upon our returns to
it as more or less getting home. But on this occasion there was to be no rest of any length.
From the plum-bloom blue of the far Magaliesberg, General Clements' heliograph was twinkling
and blinking for the remainder of his force and more mounted men. In addition to this Colonel
Hicks took out a column. These and other deductions left Krugersdorp with a garrison of 300
men to man a perimeter of some ten or twelve miles, or, roughly speaking, just over fifty yards
for each rifle. 'C' company, under Captain Pomeroy, W.I.R. (attached), and Lieutenant Molony,
occupied Fort Craig; 'D' company, under Captain Clarke, R.M.L.I. (attached), and Lieutenant
Marsh, held Fort Kilmarnock; and 'G' company, under its Captain and Lieutenant Smith, took
over Fort Harlech. Major Rutherford took over this fort next day, as the captain of 'G' company
had been appointed commander of the town guards and piquets and interior defences. Colonel
Hicks had been ordered to Johannesburg to see General French, who informed him that he was
to take command of a mixed force[19] and march to the Losberg, there to dig up a large sum
of gold, reputed to amount to nearly 100,000l.; after which he was to proceed south to the
Vaal, and hold the drifts between Vereeniging and Rensburg.

         [Footnote 19: 400 Royal Dublin Fusiliers, 200 cavalry, two
         guns.]

Starting at midnight on the 10th-11th, the column marched till 6 a.m., covering fifteen or
sixteen miles. The men then had breakfasts; and, after resting till mid-day, when they had
dinners, started again for Orange Grove, the pass in the Gatsrand with which we were by this
time so familiar. It was occupied by Boers, estimated at about one hundred in number, who offered
considerable resistance, but who were finally shelled out of it, without loss on our side,
though charged by a squadron of Carabineers with great dash. Having done about twenty-six miles,
the camp was pitched at 6 p.m., outposts being, of course, thrown out on the adjacent hills.

Reveille sounded at 4.30 a.m., and by 5.30 the small column was on the way again. Their destination
was plain enough this time, and very grim and formidable it looked in the broad light of day,
considering the very small force which was about to attack it. Moreover, on this occasion it
held something besides oranges. Advancing from the north in the direction of the spot from
which we had advanced to the attack a few days before, Colonel Hicks made a demonstration as
though about to attack the eastern peak, then, suddenly opening a heavy shell fire on the nek
between the two, he launched his real attack against the other summit. Although the hill was
held by a considerable number of the enemy, estimated at 500, these tactics proved eminently
successful, for when they discovered the direction of the main attack shrapnel was bursting
all over the nek along which they would have had to gallop to meet it, and they gave up the
idea and evacuated the position, which fell into Colonel Hicks' hand with a loss of one man,
who had the misfortune to be hit in no less than five places. A guide had been sent with the
column who knew where the gold was, and a party was told off to dig it up and bring it in.
The guide may or may not have known where the gold was, but he certainly did not know where
it was then, and the search proved entirely abortive. He was a murderer under sentence of death,
and was to save his life by showing the gold and ten buried guns.

The force started at 5 a.m. next morning for Lindeque Drift. There was a certain amount of
sniping all the way, principally at the cavalry, who were riding wide on either flank, collecting
cattle and burning straw and hay, in addition to guarding the flanks. Lindeque was reached
at 5.30 p.m., a camp of our people being in view on the far bank of the river, with whom communication
was opened by signal. The drift was very deep, but an orderly managed to get across with a
letter. Orders also arrived from General French giving Colonel Hicks thirty miles of river
to watch, which seemed a good deal, considering the paucity of the numbers at his disposal.

At 6.30 a.m. a helio message was received calling the column at once back to Krugersdorp, and
a start was made for the return journey at 8 a.m. The Boers endeavoured all day to cut off
the rearguard, but met with no success, the gunners shelling them whenever they got close enough
to be unpleasant.

The 15th proved to be almost a repetition of the day before, the enemy hanging persistently
on the flanks and rear of the little column, but showing no signs of any desire to make their
closer acquaintance. Indeed, that morning Colonel Hicks had prepared a small surprise for them
which fully realised his anticipations. Whenever columns were moving about it was the invariable
custom of the enemy to at once occupy the vacated camping-ground in search of any odds-and-ends
that might have been left about, but more especially ammunition, which used to drop out of
our men's pouches in surprising quantities, in spite of the most stringent orders on the subject.
On this occasion the Colonel left a small party in ambush when he moved off, with the result
that when half-a-dozen Boers began rummaging about in the camp they were suddenly invited to
hold their hands up, a request which they had of necessity to comply with, one of them being
a Field-Cornet and a man of some local importance. A halt was made in sight of Randfontein,
on the slopes of which a column, under Colonel the Hon. Ulick Roche, could be seen proceeding
in the direction of Krugersdorp. Next day was Dingaan's Day, and rumour stated that the Boers
under De la Rey, flushed with their victory over Clements, were going to attack Krugersdorp.

The column marched the remaining fifteen miles by 2.30 p.m. next day without seeing any sign
of the enemy. During the six days they had been away they had marched 102 miles, skirmished
with the enemy nearly every day, taken a strong position by a fine example of tactics, captured
a good many prisoners, and brought in a large quantity of cattle, sheep, &c.: a very fine six
days' work.

Since May 30th the headquarters of the battalion had marched well over 1200 miles. On three
occasions it had exceeded thirty miles in twenty-four hours--the record, of course, being the
thirty-eight miles in sixteen hours from Klerkskraal to Pochefstroom in September. But the
most wonderful part of its work was the strange immunity it experienced from any of the determined
attacks which were so constantly being made on other columns. Whether it was good or bad luck,
good or bad scouting, whatever it was, the fact remained that with the exception of the almost
daily scrapping and sniping, which constant use had made to appear as part of the day's work,
no action of any importance came our way in spite of the countless marches and counter-marches
we made to bring one on. With the solitary exception of the afternoon at Frederickstadt, when
the Boers dropped a few shells into our camp, and the two following days, when General Liebenburg
paid a similar attention to the detachment left behind on the hill, we had not been under shell-fire.

In the meantime, the disaster to General Clements at Nooitgedacht had drawn all eyes to the
state of Krugersdorp, which with its small garrison seemed to offer a tempting bait to De la
Rey, and column after column arrived to assist in repelling the assault which was threatened
for Dingaan's Day. Before the reinforcements arrived the General had taken every sort of precaution;
amongst others, arresting most of the principal inhabitants of the town, and holding them as
hostages. The festival, however, passed without incident, and the tide of men and horses, guns
and waggons, which had reached a record height in the history of the town, soon began to ebb
once more, and then everything settled down to the quiet, peaceful state of affairs which almost
always characterised Krugersdorp. The band played in the market square, and concerts were arranged
in the town hall, while the General set a fine example to his troops for their guidance in
his treatment of those of our late enemies who had observed their oaths of neutrality, as a
large number of them most religiously did. Ever foremost in aggressive tactics in the field
until the enemy was overcome, the General adopted a policy of conciliation at other times which
undoubtedly had far-reaching effects as regarded the conduct of the inhabitants of Krugersdorp.

