  Came the hostess of the waters,
  Ancient hostess robed in flowers,
  Rising from her deep sea-castle,
  Swimming to the shore in wonder,
  Listened to the minstrel's playing,
  To the harp of Wainamoinen.
  As the magic tones re-echoed,
  As the singer's song outcircled,
  Sank the hostess into slumber,
  On the rocks of many colors,
  On her watery couch of joyance,
  Deep the sleep that settled o'er her.

  Wainamoinen, ancient minstrel,
  Played one day and then a second,
  Played the third from morn to even.
  There was neither man nor hero,
  Neither ancient dame nor maiden,
  Not in Metsola a daughter,
  Whom he did not touch to weeping;
  Wept the young and wept the aged,
  Wept the mothers, wept the daughters,
  At the music of his playing,
  At the songs of the magician.
      Crawford's Translation, Runes XL.-XLI.

THE AENEID.

The Aeneid was written by Publius Vergilius Maro, commonly known as Vergil, who was born at
Andes, near Mantua, Oct. 15, 70 B. C., and died at Brundusium, Sept. 22, 19 B.C.

He was educated at Cremona, Milan, Naples, and Rome. When the lands near Cremona and Mantua
were assigned by Octavianus to his soldiers after the battle of Philippi, Vergil lost his estates;
but they were afterwards restored to him through Asinius Pollio.

He became a favorite of Augustus, and spent part of his time in Rome, near his patron, Maecenas,
the emperor's minister.

Vergil's first work was the Bucolics, in imitation of Theocritus. His second work, the Georgics,
treats of husbandry. The Aeneid relates the adventures of Aeneas, the legendary ancestor of
the Romans.

The Aeneid is in twelve books, of which the first six describe the wanderings of Aeneas, and
the last six his wars in Italy. Its metre is the dactyllic hexameter.

Vergil worked for eleven years on the poem, and considered it incomplete at his death.

The Aeneid tells the story of the flight of Aeneas from burning Troy to Italy, and makes him
an ancestor of the Romans. With the story of his wanderings are interwoven praises of the Caesars
and the glory of Rome.

It is claimed that because Vergil was essentially a poet of rural life, he was especially fitted
to be the national poet, since the Roman life was founded on the agricultural country life.
He also chose a theme which particularly appealed to the patriotism of the Romans. For this
reason, the poem was immediately received into popular favor, and was made a text-book of the
Roman youths. It is often said of Vergil by way of reproach, that his work was an imitation
of Homer, and the first six books of the Aeneid are compared to the Odyssey, the last six to
the Iliad. But while Vergil may be accused of imitation of subject matter, his style is his
own, and is entirely different from that of Homer. There is a tender grace in the Roman writer
which the Greek does not possess. Vergil also lacks that purely pagan enjoyment of life; in
its place there is a tender melancholy that suggests the passing of the golden age. This difference
of treatment, this added grace and charm, which are always mentioned as peculiarly Vergil's
own, united with his poetical feeling, and skill in versification, are sufficient to absolve
him from the reproach of a mere imitator.

The Aeneid was greatly admired and imitated during the Middle Ages, and still retains its high
place in literature.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE AENEID.

R. W. Brown's History of Roman Classical Literature, n. d., pp. 257-265;

John Alfred Church's Story of the Aeneid, 1886;

Domenico Comparetti's Virgil in the Middle Ages, Tr. by Benecke, 1895;

C. T. Cruttwell's Virgil (see his History of Roman Literature, n. d. pp. 252-375);

John Davis's Observations on the poems of Homer and Virgil, out of the French, 1672;

James Henry's Aeneidea: or Critical, Exegetical, and Aesthetical Remarks on the Aeneis, 1873;

James Henry's Notes of Twelve Years' Voyage of Discovery in the first six Books of the Aeneid,
1853;

J. W. Mackail's Virgil (see his Latin Literature, 1895, pp. 91-106);

H. Nettleship's The Aeneid (see his Vergil, 1880, pp. 45-74);

H. T. Peck and R. Arrowsmith's Roman Life in Latin Prose and Verse, 1894, pp. 68-70;

Leonhard Schmitz's History of Latin Literature, 1877, pp. 106-108;

W. Y. Sellar's Roman Poets of the Augustan Age, Vergil, Ed. 2, 1883;

W. S. Teuffel's Aeneis (see his History of Roman Literature, 1891, pp. 434-439);

J. S. Tunison's Master Virgil, the author of the Aeneid, as he seemed in the Middle Ages, 1888;

Robert Y. Tyrrell's Virgil (see his Latin Poetry, 1895, pp. 126-161);

A Forgotten Virtue, Macmillan, 1895, xii. 51-56, an article on the Aeneid, "the epic of piety;"

Scene of the last six books of the Aeneid, Blackwood, 1832, xxxii. 76-87;

A. A. Knight's The Year in the Aeneid, Education, 1886, vi. 612-616;

William C. Cawton's The Underworld in Homer, Virgil, and Dante, Atlantic, 1884, liv. 99-110.

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE AENEID.

The Aeneid, Tr. by J. Conington, 1887;

The Aeneid, Tr. by C. P. Cranch, 1872;

The Aeneid, Tr. by John Dryden (1697), 1884;

The Aeneid, Tr. by William Morris, 1882;

The Aeneid, Tr. by W. S. Thornhill, 1886;

The Aeneid, Tr. by J. A. Wilstach, 1884;

The Aeneid, Tr. by J. W. Mackail, 1890.

THE STORY OF THE AENEID.

For many years the heroic Aeneas, who escaped from falling Troy to seek the shores of Italy,
there to found the lofty walls of Rome, was tossed upon the sea by the wrath of cruel Juno.

The fates foretold that these future Romans would overthrow a city dearer to her than Samos,--Carthage,
founded by the Tyrians, opposite Italy, and far from the Tiberine mouths. For this rich city
Juno desired boundless rule,--hence her hatred of the Trojans. Moreover, she had not forgotten
the judgment of Paris, her slighted charms, and the supplanting of Hebe by Ganymede.

After having tossed the unhappy hero and his men over many seas, Juno, observing their approach
to Italy, hastened to Aeolia, where King Aeolus ruled over the struggling winds and tempests,
chained in vast caves.

Bribed by Juno, Aeolus sent forth a tempest that scattered the ships of Aeneas, and would have
destroyed them had it not been for the interposition of Neptune.

Suspecting his sister's treachery, Neptune angrily dismissed the winds, and hastened to the
relief of the Trojans. Cymothoe and Triton pushed the ships from the rocks, he himself assisting
with his trident. Then, driving over the rough waves in his chariot, he soothed the frenzy
of the sea.

The wearied Aeneans speedily sought a harbor on the Libyan shore, a long and deep recess bordered
by a dense grove. In the cliffs was a cave, with sweet waters and seats carved from the living
rock,--the abode of the nymphs. Gathering here the seven ships that survived the fury of the
storm, Aeneas landed, and feasted with his comrades.

The next morning Aeneas, accompanied by his friend Achates, sallied forth from the camp at
dawn, to learn, if possible, something of the land on which they had been thrown. They had
gone but a little way in the depths of the forest when they met Aeneas's mother, Venus, in
the guise of a Spartan maid, her bow hung from her shoulders, her hair flowing to the wind.

"Hast thou seen my sister?" she inquired, "hunting the boar, wrapped in a spotted lynx hide,
her quiver at her back?"

"Nay, we have seen no one," replied Aeneas. "But what shall I call thee, maiden? A goddess,
a nymph? Be kind, I pray thee, and tell us among what people we have fallen, that before thy
altars we may sacrifice many a victim."

"I am unworthy of such honors," Venus answered. "This land is Libya, but the town is Tyrian,
founded by Dido, who fled hither from her brother Pygmalion, who had secretly murdered her
husband, Sichaeus, for his gold. To Dido, sleeping, appeared the wraith of Sichaeus, pallid,
his breast pierced with the impious wound, and revealed to her her brother's crime, showed
where a hoard of gold was concealed, and advised her to leave the country.

"Gathering together a company of those who wished to flee from the tyrant, Dido seized the
ships, loaded them with the gold, and fled to Libya, where she is now erecting the walls and
towers of New Carthage. I would advise thee to hasten forward and seek our queen. If augury
fail me not, I read from yonder flight of swans the return of thy missing ships and comrades."

As she turned to go, her neck shone with a rosy refulgence, ambrosial fragrance breathed from
her, her robe flowed down about her feet and revealed the goddess. As she vanished, her son
stretched longing hands after her. "Ah, mother, why dost thou thus trifle with me? Why may
not I clasp thy loved hands and exchange true words with thee?"

Wrapped in a cloud by Venus, Aeneas and Achates mounted a hill that overlooked the city, and
looked down wondering on the broad roofs and the paved streets of Carthage. The busy Tyrians
worked like the bees in early summer: some moving the immense masses of stone, some founding
the citadel, others laying off the sites for the law courts and sacred Senate House. "O happy
ye whose walls now rise!" exclaimed Aeneas, as he and Achates mingled with the crowd, still
cloud-wrapped, and entered the vast temple built to Juno. Here Aeneas's fear fell from him;
for as he waited for the queen's coming, he saw pictured on the walls the fall of his own dear
city, and wept as he gazed upon the white tents of Rhesus, and Hector's disfigured body.

As he wept, the beautiful Dido entered, joyously intent on her great work, and, seating herself
on her throne, proceeded to give laws to the Tyrians, and assign their work to them.

Suddenly, to the amazement of Aeneas and Achates, in burst their lost comrades, Antheus, Sergestus,
Gyas, Cloanthus, and other Trojans, demanding of Dido a reason for their rough reception. To
whom the queen replied:--

"Let fear desert your hearts; I, too, have suffered, and know how to aid the unfortunate. And
whither hath not the fame of Troy penetrated? I will aid you in leaving this coast, or give
you a home with me, treating you as I treat my Tyrians. Would only that Aeneas's self stood
with you!"

Then burst Aeneas forth from his cloud-wrapping, made more beautiful by Venus, the purple bloom
of youth on his face, joy in his eyes. "Here am I, Trojan Aeneas, to render thanks to thee,
divine Dido."

Dido, charmed with the hero, prepared a banquet for him in her splendid hall, curtained with
rich drapery, and adorned with costly plate, whereon were pictured the proud deeds of her ancestors.
Hither came the Trojans with gifts for Dido,--a rich robe stiff with gold embroidery, a veil
embroidered with the yellow acanthus, ornaments of Helen, the sceptre of Ilione, a pearl and
gold necklace, and a double crown of gems and gold.

Beside Achates tripped Cupid, for Venus, suspecting the craft of the Tyrians, had hidden Ascanius
on Mount Ida, and sent her own son in his guise, to complete Aeneas's conquest of Dido.

After the feast was over, the great beakers were brought in and crowned with garlands. Dido
called for the beaker used by Belus and all his descendants, and pouring a libation, drank
to the happiness of the Trojan wanderers, and passed the cup around the board. Iopas, the long-haired
minstrel, sang, and the night passed by in various discourse. Dido, forgetting Sichaeus, hung
on the words of Aeneas, questioning him of Priam and Hector, and at last demanding the story
of his wanderings.

"Thou orderest me, O queen, to renew my grief, the destruction of Troy by the Greeks, which
deeds I have seen, and a part of which I have been.

"Despairing of conquering Troy, the Greeks attempted to take it by stratagem. By the art of
Pallas, they framed a heaven-high horse, within which were concealed picked men for our destruction.
Leaving this behind them, they sailed, ostensibly for home, in reality for Tenedos.

"When we supposed them gone we joyfully went forth to examine the deserted camp and the giant
horse. As we wondered at it, and Laocooen, priest of Neptune, urged us to destroy it, a crowd
of shepherds approached with a youth whom they had found hiding in the sedges. His name was
Sinon. He was a Greek, but he was hated by Ulysses, and had fled to save his life. The Greeks
had sailed home, he assured us, leaving the horse as a votive offering to Pallas. They had
hoped that its great bulk would prevent the Trojans from taking it inside their walls, for
once within the city, Troy could never be taken.

"We Trojans were credulous, and Sinon's tale was plausible. To increase our belief in it, while
Laocooen was sacrificing a bull to Neptune, we saw coming over the sea from Tenedos two huge
serpents, their crimson crests towering high, their breasts erect among the waves, their long
folds sweeping over the foaming sea. As we fled affrighted, they seized the two sons of Laocooen,
twining their coils around the wretched boys; and when their father hastened to their aid,
caught him in their huge coils, staining his fillets with black blood. 'Laocooen suffered for
his crime,' we said, when, the priest slain, the serpents crept to Pallas's altar, and curled
themselves around the feet of the goddess. Then joyfully we made a breach in the walls, put
rollers under the horse, and, with music and dancing, dragged it within the walls.

"That night as we lay sleeping after revelry and feasting, Sinon crept down, opened the horse,
and freed the men, who were soon joined by the other Greeks, returned from Tenedos.

"In a dream Hector's shade appeared to me, and, weeping, bade me fly. 'Troy falls. Do thou
go forth and save her household deities!' As I woke, sounds of battle penetrated to my palace
halls, removed somewhat from the city, and embowered in trees; and I rushed forth, forgetful
of Hector's warning. I saw the streets swimming in Trojan blood, Trojan women and children
led captive, Cassandra dragged from her shrine. Enraged, I gathered a band and slew many Greeks.
But when I saw the impious Pyrrhus enter the palace and slay Priam at the altar, I recognized
the uselessness of my struggle, and turned to my home.

"Taking my old father Anchises on my back, and leading Iulus by the hand, I set forth, followed
by my wife Creusa. But when I looked behind me at the city gates, my wife was gone. Mad with
despair, I rushed back to the citadel, crying, 'Creusa! Creusa!' Our homestead was in flames,
the streets filled with Greeks; but as I roamed through the town, I met her pallid shape. 'O
husband, rage not against heaven's decrees! Happy days will come for thee on the banks of the
Tiber. Farewell, and love with me our boy!'

"Without the gates I was joined by other fugitives; and after the departure of the Greeks we
built ships from the timbers of Mount Ida, and loading these with our household gods and a
few spoils from the city, we departed to seek new homes.

"In Thrace, our first stopping-place, I learned that Polydore, Priam's son, who had been entrusted
to the care of the Thracian king, had been slain by him for his gold, when the fortunes of
Troy fell. We hastened to leave this accursed land, and sought Delos, only to be instructed
by Apollo that we must seek the home from which our forefathers had come. Anchises, who remembered
the legends of our race, thought this must be Crete; so to Crete we sailed, and there laid
the foundations of a city, only to be driven thence by a plague and a threatened famine.

"In a dream my household gods instructed me that Dardanus, the founder of our race, had come
from Hesperia, and thither we must bend our course. Tempests drove us about the sea for three
suns, until, on the fourth, we landed at the isle of the Harpies,--loathsome monsters, half
woman, half bird, who foul everything they touch. When we had slain the cattle and prepared
to banquet, they drove us from the tables; and when attacked by us, uttered dire threats of
future famine.

"At Epirus we heard that Andromache had wed Prince Helenus, who had succeeded to the rule of
Pyrrhus, two Trojans thus being united. As I landed here, anxious to prove the truth of the
rumor, I met Andromache herself in a grove near the town, sacrificing at an empty tomb dedicated
to Hector. Pyrrhus had made her his slave after the fall of Troy, but after he wedded Hermione,
he had given her to Helenus, himself a slave. When Pyrrhus died, part of his realm fell to
Helenus, and here the two had set up a little Troy.

"Helenus received us kindly, instructed us as to our route, and gave us rich gifts; and Andromache,
remembering her dead Astyanax, wept over lulus as she parted with him.

"As we passed Sicily we took up a Greek, Achemenides, a companion of Ulysses, who had been
left behind, and had since been hiding in deadly terror from the Cyclops. We ourselves caught
sight of the monster Polyphemus, feeling his way to the shore to bathe his wounded eye.

"Instructed by Helenus, we avoided Scylla and Charybdis, and reached Sicily, where my father
died. We were just leaving the island when the storm arose that brought us hither. The rest
thou knowest."

The guests departed from the banquet hall; but the unhappy Dido, consumed with love, imparted
her secret to her sister Anna.

"Why shouldst thou weep, sister dear? Why regret that thou hast at last forgotten Sichaeus?
Contend not against love, but strive to unite Trojan and Tyrian. Winter comes on, and thou
canst detain him while the sea rages and the winds are fierce and the rains icy."

Her ambitious plans for her city forgotten, Dido wandered through the streets, mad with love
and unable to conceal her passion. She led AEneas among the walls and towers, made feasts for
him, and begged again and again to hear the story of his wandering. At other times she fondled
Ascanius, leaving her youths undrilled, and the city works abandoned.

Perceiving that Aeneas, well content, seemed to forget that his goal was Hesperia, Mercury
was dispatched by Jupiter to warn him to depart from Carthage.

"Why stoppest thou here?" questioned the herald of the gods. "If thou carest not for thyself,
think of Ascanius, thine heir. His must be the Italian realms, the Roman world."

The horror-stricken Aeneas stood senseless with fear. He longed to escape, but how leave the
unhappy Dido? Quickly calling his comrades, he commanded them to fit out the fleet in silence,
hoping to find a time when he could break the news to Dido gently.

But who can deceive a lover? Rumor bore the report to Dido, who, mad with grief, reproached
Aeneas. "Perfidious one! didst thou think to escape from me? Does not our love restrain thee,
and the thought that I shall surely die when thou art gone? I have sacrificed all to thee;
now leave me not lonely in my empty palace."

Aeneas remained untouched. He would ever retain the kindest memories of his stay in Carthage.
He had never held out the hope of wedlock to her. A higher power called him, and, bidden by
Jove, he must depart, for Ascanius's sake, to Italy.

The fainting Dido was carried to her palace, whence she could watch the hurried preparations
for the departure. As she watched, life became intolerable to her. Pretending to her sister
that she was preparing to perform a magic spell to release her from the bonds of love, she
reared a mighty pyre in her court, wreathed it with funereal garlands, and placed thereon Aeneas's
couch, garments, and sword. With her hair dishevelled, she then invoked Hecate, and sprinkling
Avernian water and poisons on it, and casting thereon various love charms, she called the gods
to witness that she was determined to die. As the ships left the harbor, she tore her hair,
one moment accusing herself because she had not torn Aeneas to pieces when in her power, at
another vowing to follow him. Then, anxious to forget her grief, she mounted, the pyre, and
threw herself on the sword of her faithless, lover.

Far out at sea, the Aeneans, looking back, dimly guessed the meaning of the flames that brightened
the stormy skies.

Contrary winds compelled Aeneas to seek harbor in Sicily. Its king, Acestes, was his friend,
and there he had buried his father Anchises. A year had elapsed since his death, and in honor
of the anniversary, Aeneas instituted funeral games, in which there were trials of skill in
rowing, foot-racing, archery, and boxing.

While the spectators were applauding the feats of skill, the Trojan women, at the instigation
of Juno, set fire to the ships, that they might compel Aeneas to remain in Sicily. By Jupiter's
aid, some of the vessels were saved, and Aeneas, acting on the advice of Nautes, allowed the
women and those Trojans who so desired, to remain in Sicily, and himself marked out for them
the foundations of their city.

While here Aeneas was urged by Anchises in a dream to visit the Cumaean Sibyl, that, with her
assistance, he might visit Elysium and talk with him.

In the lofty temple, the Sibyl, inspired by the god, encouraged the hero. "Success will at
last be thine, and Juno will be won over to thee. But great labors must thou undergo."

To visit the underworld was no easy task, she assured him. "The gates of Dis stand open night
and day; small trouble it is to descend thereto, but to retrace one's steps, and regain the
upper air, there lies the toil." Aeneas must first possess a golden branch to present to Proserpina,
and celebrate the funeral rites of his friend, Misenus, who yet lay unburied.

While Aeneas worked in the forest, felling trees for Misenus's bier, the doves of Venus descended
and aided him to find the tree, from which he plucked the gleaming branch.

Across the Styx, past the dread Cerberus, Aeneas and the Sibyl went, through the abode of babes
and those who died for deeds they did not do, and into the mourning fields, where the disappointed
in love were hedged in with myrtle sprays. Here Aeneas descried Dido dimly through the clouds,
and wept to see her fresh wound. Many were his protestations of his faithfulness, and strong
his declaration that he left her only at the command of the gods. But without raising her eyes,
Dido turned coldly away to where her former husband returned her love for love. Past the chamber
of torture, beyond Phlegethon, guarded by Tisiphone and Tartarus, in whose depths the wicked
were punished, they went, and entered the beautiful fields of Elysium, where Aeneas found his
father.

To his son, Anchises explained that the souls that visited the underworld were punished according
to their deserts, and then sent into Elysium. Cleansed there of all impurities, and with the
memories of the past washed from them by Lethe, they again visited the world in another form.
Pointing out a crowd that passed them, he indicated to Aeneas the illustrious men who would
make his race famous in Italy. First his son Silvius, born of Lavinia, his Italian wife to
be; Numitor, Romulus, the founder of Rome, Caesar, and greatest of all, Augustus Caesar, who
would usher in the golden age.

Comforted by the prophecies of Anchises, Aeneas sought the upper world, and collecting his
companions, set sail for the mouth of the Tiber.

Latinus the king welcomed Aeneas, and received his proposals for his daughter Lavinia's hand
with favor, remembering an ancient prophecy that Lavinia was to wed a foreign prince. But queen
Amata, aroused by Juno, insisted that Lavinia should be espoused to Turnus, chief of the Rutulians.
Stung by the fury Alecto, she stirred up the people until they demanded that Latinus declare
war against Aeneas; and when he hesitated, Juno herself threw open the gates of the temple
of Janus.

Leaving part of his forces in Latium with Ascanius, Aeneas, instructed in a dream by father
Tiber, sailed up the river to Pallanteum, the future site of Rome, to gain the alliance of
Evander, an Arcadian king unfriendly to Turnus.

Evander, who was celebrating a solemn feast to Hercules, together with his only son Pallas,
and his senate, welcomed the warriors to his modest home, promised his alliance, and sent forth
with Aeneas his son Pallas and four hundred knights. He also advised him to go to Argylla,
whose people were stirred up against Turnus because he protected their tyrant king Mezentius.

While Aeneas was thus seeking allies, his troops in Latium had been attacked and besieged by
Turnus, and were greatly in need of the hero's aid. While the hosts of Turnus were sleeping
after their drunken revelry, Nisus proposed to his beloved Euryalus that they steal through
the Latin line with messages to Aeneas. Their proposal was applauded by the elders, and Iulus,
weeping, promised to cherish them forever for their courage.

As the youths passed among the sleeping Latins, the desire for slaughter overcame them, and
they slew Rhamnes, as he lay upon his gorgeous rugs, Lamus, and many others, Euryalus taking
Rhamnes's golden-studded belt and Messapus's helmet as booty. Unfortunately they had delayed
too long in slaughter; as they neared the camp of Turnus, Volscens, returning with reinforcements,
caught sight of the shining helmet of Euryalus. The youth, flying, became separated from Nisus,
and was captured by the enemy. Nisus, who returned to rescue his friend, sent weapon after
weapon from his retreat, and when he saw Euryalus about to suffer death from Volscens, rushed
forth to save him, only to fall dead upon the body of his slaughtered friend.

Angry at the slaughter committed by Nisus and Euryalus, Turnus, on his return, attempted to
scale the intrenchments. The fight raged fiercely around the walls and towers; but just as
the victory seemed to be with Turnus, Aeneas returned with his Tuscan allies, effected a landing,
and began to put the enemy to flight, slaying the tyrant Mezentius and his son.

Turnus, hearing of the danger of his friend Lausus, at the hands of Pallas, who had already
wrought great slaughter, sought him out, amazing the young warrior by his great size. Pallas
faced him bravely; but while his spear only grazed the shoulder of Turnus, the spear of the
Rutulian crushed the folds of iron, bronze, and hides, the corselet's rings of steel, and buried
itself in Pallas's breast.

Turnus took the sword-belt from Pallas's body; but because of the merit of the young warrior,
yielded his body to the Arcadians to be carried to King Evander.

Enraged at the death of his friend, Aeneas fought more fiercely. Especially anxious was he
to meet Turnus; but Juno, determined, if possible, to save her favorite, decoyed Turnus off
the battle-field by assuming the guise of Aeneas.

After a truce, during which the armies buried their dead, and the body of Pallas was sent home
to his father, the armies again came together, the Latins being reinforced by the Amazons,
under the leadership of Camilla. Camilla had been reared by her father, the exile Metabus,
and, early trained to warlike pursuits, had consecrated herself to Diana. Beautiful as a goddess
was she, and so light of foot that she could fly over the tops of the tallest wheat without
harming the ears.

Within the walls of Latium there was quarrelling between the parties, Drances, leader of the
peace party, accusing Turnus of bringing on and continuing the hostilities. The approach of
Aeneas brought these disputes to an abrupt conclusion, and Camilla, with Turnus, hastened to
battle. Many victims fell by Camilla's hand that day, as she rode about the field, her breast
bare, her hand clasping her double battle-axe, before Aruns struck her down and fled, frightened
at his victory.

In Latium the unhappiness increased, and Turnus, enraged at the reproaches heaped upon him,
declared that he would decide the war by single combat with Aeneas. Latinus made no secret
of his regret at having been compelled to break his compact with Aeneas; but Amata, still furious,
raged against Aeneas, and declared that she would die if he were made her son-in-law.

The preparations were made for the single combat, the sacrifices at the altars, the crowds
assembled to witness the combat; but just as the kings were solemnizing the agreement, Turnus's
sister, Juturna, a river goddess, beloved of Jupiter, renewed the hostilities that Turnus might
be saved. A weapon hurled from the Latin ranks caused the indignant Trojans to rise in arms,
forgetful of the treaty, and the fight raged more fiercely than before.

Juturna, fearful from Juno's words of the fate of Turnus, assumed the guise of Metiscus, his
charioteer, and drove her brother over the field far from the angry Aeneas, who, weary of waiting
for Turnus, turned towards Latium. The frightened people rushed hither and thither, and the
queen, seeing the approaching foe, the roofs in flames, and no troops of Turnus in sight, supposed
the Rutulian dead, and hanged herself.

In the mean time, Turnus, remote from the fight, reproached his sister. "Think'st thou not
I recognized thee? Thy deceit is in vain. Is to die so wretched a thing? Let us go to the battle.
At least, I will die not unworthy of my ancestry."

As he spoke, Saces, wounded and bleeding, rushed to him, imploring: "Turnus, have pity on us;
come to our rescue! The Latins call thee, the queen is dead, the phalanxes crowd thick around
the gates, while thou drivest idly here."

Turnus, amazed, confused, and shamed, saw flames consuming the towers of Latium.

"Now, sister, the fates control. Desist! It is too late, I will be shamed no more!" Leaping
from his chariot, he rushed forward, demanding that war cease in order that he and Aeneas might
decide the battle in single combat.

When Turnus's sword broke on the helmet of Aeneas,--the sword of his charioteer, that he had
seized by mistake instead of his own Styx-hardened blade,--he turned and fled, Aeneas pursuing.

Above, in Olympus, Jupiter and Juno quarrelled, as they watched the heroes circling over the
yellow sand.

"Give over thy enmity," said the omnipotent father. "Thou hast caused the treaty to be violated;
even now thou hast made Juturna return the lost sword to Turnus--in vain. Grieve no more, and
goad no longer these suffering men of Troy."

Then Juno yielded, stipulating only that the Trojans lay aside their ancient name, that Latium
remain Latium, and the future growth Roman.

Juturna, warned by Jove's messenger, a bird of evil omen, tore her locks and beat her breast,
regretting the gift of immortality conferred on her by Jove. Then wrapping her gray veil about
her, she fled to her watery throne that she might not see the death of her brother. The frightened
Turnus, still fleeing from Aeneas, abandoned his sword and took up instead a mighty rock, a
landmark such as scarce six men could uplift.

Hurling this at Aeneas, he stood, his blood running chill, his eyes cast towards the Rutuli,
the town, and the spear of Aeneas, that, shrieking through the air, doom laden, wrecked his
heavy shield and pierced his thigh.

"Mercy!" he prayed. "Fate hath given thee the advantage. Think, thou duteous son, of my old
father, Daunus."

As Aeneas stood, softened, and ready to grant the request, the sword-belt of Pallas caught his eye.

"Shalt thou escape, decked out with Pallas's spoils? No, not I slay thee, but Pallas! His hand
immolates thee!" As he spoke he plunged his sword in Turnus's breast.

Chilly death came, and the warrior's spirit fled, groaning to the shades.

SELECTION FROM THE AENEID.

NISUS AND EURYALUS.

While Aeneas, finding the Latins hostile to him, sailed up the Tiber in search of allies, the
troops he left behind under Ascanius were attacked by Turnus, and their slight fortifications
besieged. They were sorely pressed, and longed to be able to inform Aeneas of their need.

  Nisus was guardian of the gate,
  No bolder heart in war's debate,
  The son of Hyrtacus, whom Ide
  Sent, with his quiver at his side,
  From hunting beasts in mountain brake
  To follow in Aeneas' wake:
  With him Euryalus, fair boy;
  None fairer donned the arms of Troy;
  His tender cheek as yet unshorn
  And blossoming with youth new-born.
  Love made them one in every thought:
  In battle side by side they fought;
  And now in duty at the gate
  The twain in common station wait.
  "Can it be Heaven," said Nisus then,
  "That lends such warmth to hearts of men,
  Or passion surging past control
  That plays the god to each one's soul?
  Long time, impatient of repose,
  My swelling heart within me glows,
  And yearns its energy to fling
  On war, or some yet grander thing.
  See there the foe, with vain hope flushed!
  Their lights are scant, their stations hushed:
  Unnerved by slumber and by wine
  Their bravest chiefs are stretched supine.
  Now to my doubting thought give heed
  And listen where its motions lead.
  Our Trojan comrades, one and all,
  Cry loud, Aeneas to recall,
  And where, they say, the men to go
  And let him of our peril know?
  Now if the meed I ask they swear
  To give you--nay, I claim no share,
  Content with bare renown--
  Meseems, beside yon grassy heap
  The way I well might find and keep,
  To Pallanteum's town."
  The youth returns, while thirst of praise
  Infects him with a strange amaze:
  "Can Nisus aim at heights so great,
  Nor take his friend to share his fate?
  Shall I look on, and let you go
  Alone to venture 'mid the foe?
  Not thus my sire Opheltes, versed
  In war's rude toil, my childhood nursed,
  When Argive terror filled the air
  And Troy was battling with despair:
  Nor such the lot my youth has tried,
  In hardship ever at your side,
  Since, great Aeneas' liegeman sworn,
  I followed Fortune to her bourne:
  Here, here within this bosom burns
  A soul that mere existence spurns,
  And holds the fame you seek to reap,
  Though bought with life, were bought full cheap."

  "Not mine the thought," brave Nisus said,
  "To wound you with so base a dread:
  So may great Jove, or whosoe'er
  Marks with just eyes how mortals fare,
  Protect me going, and restore
  In triumph to your arms once more.
  But if--for many a chance, you wis,
  Besets an enterprise like this--
  If accident or power divine
  The scheme to adverse end incline,
  Your life at least I would prolong:
  Death does your years a deeper wrong.
  Leave me a friend to tomb my clay,
  Rescued or ransomed, which you may;
  Or, e'en that boon should chance refuse,
  To pay the absent funeral dues.
  Nor let me cause so dire a smart
  To that devoted mother's heart,
  Who, sole of all the matron train,
  Attends her darling o'er the main,
  Nor cares like others to sit down
  An inmate of Acestes' town."
  He answers brief: "Your pleas are naught:
  Firm stands the purpose of my thought:
  Come, stir we: why so slow?"
  Then calls the guards to take their place,
  Moves on by Nisus, pace with pace,
  And to the prince they go.
  All other creatures wheresoe'er
  Were stretched in sleep, forgetting care:
  Troy's chosen chiefs in high debate
  Were pondering o'er the reeling state,
  What means to try, or whom to speed
  To show Aeneas of their need.
  There stand they, midway in the field,
  Still hold the spear, still grasp the shield:
  When Nisus and his comrade brave
  With eager tones admittance crave;
  The matter high; though time be lost,
  The occasion well were worth the cost,
  Iulus hails the impatient pair,
  Bids Nisus what they wish declare.
  Then spoke the youth: "Chiefs I lend your ears,
  Nor judge our proffer by our years.
  The Rutules, sunk in wine and sleep,
  Have ceased their former watch to keep:
  A stealthy passage have we spied
  Where on the sea the gate opes wide:
  The line of fires is scant and broke,
  And thick and murky rolls the smoke.
  Give leave to seek, in these dark hours,
  Aeneas at Evander's towers,
  Soon will you see us here again
  Decked with the spoils of slaughtered men.
  Nor strange the road: ourselves have seen
  The city, hid by valleys green,
  Just dimly dawning, and explored
  In hunting all the river-board."
  Out spoke Aletes, old and gray:
  "Ye gods, who still are Ilium's stay,
  No, no, ye mean not to destroy
  Down to the ground the race of Troy,
  When such the spirit of her youth,
  And such the might of patriot truth."
  Then, as the tears roll down his face,
  He clasps them both in strict embrace:
  "Brave warriors! what rewards so great,
  For worth like yours to compensate?
  From Heaven and from your own true heart
  Expect the largest, fairest part:
  The rest, and at no distant day,
  The good Aeneas shall repay,
  Nor he, the royal youth, forget
  Through all his life the mighty debt."
  "Nay, hear me too," Ascanius cried,
  "Whose life is with my father's tied:
  O Nisus! by the home-god powers
  We jointly reverence, yours and ours,
  The god of ancient Capys' line,
  And Vesta's venerable shrine,
  By these dread sanctions I appeal
  To you, the masters of my weal;
  Oh, bring me back my sire again!
  Restore him, and I feel no pain.
  Two massy goblets will I give;
  Rich sculptures on the silver live;
  The plunder of my sire,
  What time he took Arisba's hold;
  Two chargers, talents twain of gold,
  A bowl beside of antique mould
  By Dido brought from Tyre.
  Then, too, if ours the lot to reign
  O'er Italy by conquest ta'en,
  And each man's spoil assign,--
  Saw ye how Turnus rode yestreen,
  His horse and arms of golden sheen?
  That horse, that shield and glowing crest
  I separate, Nisus, from the rest
  And count already thine.
  Twelve female slaves, at your desire,
  Twelve captives with their arms entire,
  My sire shall give you, and the plain
  That forms Latinus' own domain.
  But you, dear youth, of worth divine,
  Whose blooming years are nearer mine,
  Here to my heart I take, and choose
  My comrade for whate'er ensues.
  No glory will I e'er pursue,
  Unmotived by the thought of you:
  Let peace or war my state befall,
  Thought, word, and deed, you share them all."
  The youth replied: "No after day
  This hour's fair promise shall betray,
  Be fate but kind. Yet let me claim
  One favor, more than all you name:
  A mother in the camp is mine,
  Derived from Priam's ancient line:
  No home in Sicily or Troy
  Has kept her from her darling boy.
  She knows not, she, the paths I tread;
  I leave her now, no farewell said;
  By night and this your hand I swear,
  A parent's tears I could not bear.
  Vouchsafe your pity, and engage
  To solace her unchilded age:
  And I shall meet whate'er betide
  By such assurance fortified."
  With sympathy and tender grief
  All melt in tears, Iulus chief,
  As filial love in other shown
  Recalled the semblance of his own:
  And, "Tell your doubting heart," he cries,
  "All blessings wait your high emprise:
  I take your mother for my own,
  Creusa, save in name alone,
  Nor lightly deem the affection due
  To her who bore a child like you.
  Come what come may, I plight my troth
  By this my head, my father's oath,
  The bounty to yourself decreed
  Should favoring gods your journey speed,
  The same shall in your line endure,
  To parent and to kin made sure."
  He spoke, and weeping still, untied
  A gilded falchion from his side,
  Lycaon's work, the man of Crete,
  With sheath of ivory complete:
  Brave Mnestheus gives for Nisus' wear
  A lion's hide with shaggy hair;
  Aletes, old in danger grown,
  His helmet takes, and gives his own.
  Then to the gates, as forth they fare,
  The band of chiefs with many a prayer
  The gallant twain attends:
  Iulus, manlier than his years,
  Oft whispering, for his father's ears
  Full many a message sends:
  But be it message, be it prayer,
  Alike 'tis lost, dispersed in air.

  The trenches past, through night's deep gloom
  The hostile camp they near:
  Yet many a foe shall meet his doom
  Or ere that hour appear.
  There see they bodies stretched supine,
  O'ercome with slumber and with wine;
  The cars, unhorsed, are drawn up high;
  'Twixt wheels and harness warriors lie,
  With arms and goblets on the grass
  In undistinguishable mass.
  "Now," Nisus cried, "for hearts and hands:
  This, this the hour our force demands.
  Here pass we: yours the rear to mind,
  Lest hostile arm be raised behind;
  Myself will go before and slay,
  While carnage opes a broad highway."
  So whispers he with bated breath,
  And straight begins the work of death
  On Rhamnes, haughty lord;
  On rugs he lay, in gorgeous heap,
  From all his bosom breathing sleep,
  A royal seer by Turnus loved:
  But all too weak his seer-craft proved
  To stay the rushing sword.
  Three servants next the weapon found
  Stretched 'mid their armor on the ground:
  Then Remus' charioteer he spies
  Beneath the coursers as he lies,
  And lops his downdropt head;
  The ill-starred master next he leaves,
  A headless trunk, that gasps and heaves:
  Forth spouts the blood from every vein,
  And deluges with crimson rain,
  Green earth and broidered bed.
  Then Lamyrus and Lamus died,
  Serranus, too, in youth's fair pride:
  That night had seen him long at play:
  Now by the dream-god tamed he lay:
  Ah, had his play but matched the night,
  Nor ended till the dawn of light!
  So famished lion uncontrolled
  Makes havoc through the teeming fold,
  As frantic hunger craves;
  Mangling and harrying far and near
  The meek, mild victims, mute with fear,
  With gory jaws he raves.
  Nor less Euryalus performs:
  The thirst of blood his bosom warms;
  'Mid nameless multitudes he storms,
  Herbesus, Fadus, Abaris kills
  Slumbering and witless of their ills,
  While Rhoetus wakes and sees the whole,
  But hides behind a massy bowl.
  There, as to rise the trembler strove,
  Deep in his breast the sword he drove,
  And bathed in death withdrew.
  The lips disgorge the life's red flood,
  A mingled stream of wine and blood:
  He plies his blade anew.
  Now turns he to Messapus' band,
  For there the fires he sees
  Burnt out, while coursers hard at hand
  Are browsing at their ease,
  When Nisus marks the excess of zeal,
  The maddening fever of the steel,
  And checks him thus with brief appeal:
  "Forbear we now; 't will soon be day:
  Our wrath is slaked, and hewn our way."
  Full many a spoil they leave behind
  Of solid silver thrice refined,
  Armor and bowls of costliest mould
  And rugs in rich confusion rolled.
  A belt Euryalus puts on
  With golden knobs, from Rhamnes won,
  Of old by Caedicus 't was sent,
  An absent friendship to cement,
  To Remulus, fair Tibur's lord,
  Who, dying, to his grandson left
  The shining prize: the Rutule sword
  In after days the trophy reft.
  Athwart his manly chest in vain
  He binds these trappings of the slain;
  Then 'neath his chin in triumph laced
  Messapus' helm, with plumage graced,
  The camp at length they leave behind,
  And round the lake securely wind.

  Meanwhile a troop is on its way,
  From Latium's city sped,
  An offshoot from the host that lay
  Along the host in close array,
  Three hundred horsemen, sent to bring
  A message back to Turnus, king,
  With Volscens at their head.
  Now to the camp they draw them nigh,
  Beneath the rampart's height,
  When from afar the twain they spy,
  Still steering from the right;
  The helmet through the glimmering shade
  At once the unwary boy betrayed,
  Seen in the moon's full light.
  Not lost the sight on jealous eyes:
  "Ho! stand! who are ye?" Volscens cries,
  "Whence come, or whither tend?"
  No movement deign they of reply,
  But swifter to the forest fly,
  And make the night their friend.
  With fatal speed the mounted foes
  Each avenue as with network close,
  And every outlet bar.
  It was a forest bristling grim
  With shade of ilex, dense and dim:
  Thick brushwood all the ground o'ergrew:
  The tangled ways a path ran through,
  Faint glimmering like a star.
  The darkling boughs, the cumbering prey
  Euryalus's flight delay:
  His courage fails, his footsteps stray:
  But Nisus onward flees;
  No thought he takes, till now at last
  The enemy is all o'erpast,
  E'en at the grove, since Alban called,
  Where then Latinus' herds were stalled:
  Sudden he pauses, looks behind
  In eager hope his friend to find:
  In vain: no friend he sees.
  "Euryalus, my chiefest care,
  Where left I you, unhappy? where?
  What clue may guide my erring tread
  This leafy labyrinth back to thread?"
  Then, noting each remembered track,
  He thrids the wood, dim-seen and black.
  Listening, he hears the horse-hoofs' beat,
  The clatter of pursuing feet.
  A little moment--shouts arise,
  And lo! Euryalus he spies,
  Whom now the foemen's gathered throng
  Is hurrying helplessly along.
  While vain resistance he essays,
  Trapped by false night and treacherous ways.
  What should he do? what force employ
  To rescue the beloved boy?
  Plunge through the spears that line the wood,
  And death and glory win with blood?
  Not unresolved, he poises soon
  A javelin, looking to the Moon:
  "Grant, goddess, grant thy present aid,
  Queen of the stars, Latonian maid,
  The greenwood's guardian power;
  If, grateful for success of mine,
  With gifts my sire has graced thy shrine,
  If e'er myself have brought thee spoil,
  The tribute of my hunter's toil,
  To ornament thy roof divine,
  Or glitter on thy tower,
  These masses give me to confound,
  And guide through air my random wound."
  He spoke, and hurled with all his might;
  The swift spear hurtles through the night:
  Stout Sulmo's back the stroke receives:
  The wood, though snapped, the midriff cleaves.
  He falls, disgorging life's warm tide,
  And long-drawn sobs distend his side.
  All gaze around: another spear
  The avenger levels from his ear,
  And launches on the sky.
  Tagus lies pierced through temples twain,
  The dart deep buried in his brain.
  Fierce Volscens storms, yet finds no foe,
  Nor sees the hand that dealt the blow,
  Nor knows on whom to fly.
  "Your heart's warm blood for both shall pay,"
  He cries, and on his beauteous prey
  With naked sword he sprang.
  Scared, maddened, Nisus shrieks aloud:
  No more he hides in night's dark shroud,
  Nor bears the o'erwhelming pang:
  "Me, guilty me, make me your aim,
  O Rutules! mine is all the blame;
  He did no wrong, nor e'er could do;
  That sky, those stars attest 't is true;
  Love for his friend too freely shown,
  This was his crime, and this alone."
  In vain he spoke: the sword, fierce driven,
  That alabaster breast had riven.
  Down falls Euryalus, and lies
  In death's enthralling agonies:
  Blood trickles o'er his limbs of snow;
  "His head sinks gradually low":
  Thus, severed by the ruthless plough,
  Dim fades a purple flower:
  Their weary necks so poppies bow,
  O'erladen by the shower.
  But Nisus on the midmost flies,
  With Volscens, Volscens in his eyes:
  In clouds the warriors round him rise,
  Thick hailing blow on blow:
  Yet on he bears, no stint, no stay,
  Like thunderbolt his falchion's sway:
  Till as for aid the Rutule shrieks
  Plunged in his throat the weapon reeks:
  The dying hand has reft away
  The life-blood of its foe.
  Then, pierced to death, asleep he fell
  On the dead breast he loved so well.

  Blest pair! if aught my verse avail,
  No day shall make your memory fail
  From off the heart of time,
  While Capitol abides in place,
  The mansion of the Aeneian race,
  And throned upon that moveless base
  Rome's father sits sublime.
      Conington's Translation, Book IX.

BEOWULF.

Beowulf, the only Anglo-Saxon epic preserved entire, was composed in southwest Sweden probably
before the eighth century, and taken to England, where it was worked over and Christianized
by the Northumbrian poets.

It is variously attributed to the fifth, seventh, and eighth centuries; but the seventh is
most probably correct, since the Higelac of the poem has been identified with Chocilaicus of
the "Gesta Regum Francorum," a Danish king who invaded Gaul in the days of Theuderic, son of
Clovis, and died near the close of the sixth century.

The only manuscript of the poem in existence is thought to be of the tenth century. It is preserved
in the British Museum. Since 1837 much interest has been manifested in the poem, and many editions
of it have been given to the public.

The unknown writer of Beowulf cannot be praised for his skill in composition; the verse is
rude, as was the language in which it was written. But it is of the greatest interest to us
because of the pictures it gives of the everyday lives of the people whose heroic deeds it
relates,--the drinking in the mead-halls, the relation of the king to his warriors, the description
of the armor, the ships, and the halls. The heroes are true Anglo-Saxon types,--bold, fearless,
ready to go to the assistance of any one in trouble, no matter how great the risk to themselves;
and as ready to drink mead and boast of their valor after the peril is over. In spite of the
attempt to Christianize the poem, it is purely pagan; the most careless reader can discover
the priestly interpolations. And it has the greater value to us because it refused to be moulded
by priestly hands, but remained the rude but heroic monument of our Saxon ancestors.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, BEOWULF.

B. Ten Brink's Early English Literature, Tr. by Kennedy;

S. A. Brooke's History of Early English Literature, 1892, p. 12;

W. F. Collier's History of English Literature, p. 19;

G. W. Cox and E. H. Jones's Popular Romances of the Middle Ages, 1871, pp. 382-398; in 1880
ed. pp. 189-201;

Isaac Disraeli's Amenities of Literature, i. 65-73;

J. Earle's Anglo-Saxon Literature;

T. W. Hunt's Ethical Teaching in Beowulf (in his Ethical Teachings in Old English Literature,
1892, pp. 66-77);

H. Morley's English Writers, 1887, pp. 276-354;

H. A. Taine's History of English Literature, 1886, i. 62;

S. Turner's Anglo-Saxons, iii. 326; in ed. 3, i. 456;

J. Harrison's Old Teutonic Life in Beowulf (in the Overland Monthly, July, 1894);

F. A. March's The World of Beowulf (in Proceedings of American Philological Association, 1882).

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, BEOWULF.

Beowulf, edition with English translation, notes and glossary by Thomas Arnold, 1876;

The Deeds of Beowulf, 1892;

Beowulf, Tr. by J. M. Garnett, 1882 (translated line for line);

Beowulf, Tr. by J. L. Hall, 1892, metrical translation;

Beowulf, Tr. by J. M. Kemble, with copious glossary, preface, and philological notes, 2 vols.,
1833-37;

Beowulf translated into modern rhymes, by H. W. Lumsden, 1881;

Beowulf, Tr. by Benjamin Thorpe, Literal translation, notes and glossary, 1875.

THE STORY OF BEOWULF.

A mighty man was Scyld, ruler of the Gar-Danes. From far across the whale-path men paid him
tribute and bore witness to his power. Beowulf was his son, a youth endowed with glory, whose
fame spread far and wide through all the Danish land.

When the time came for Scyld to die he ordered his thanes to prepare the ring-stemmed ship,
laden with treasures, battle-weed, and swords, and place him in the death-chamber. Laden with
his people's gifts, and sailing under a golden banner, he passed from sight, none knew whither.

After him ruled Beowulf, and after him Healfdene,--brave warriors and kind monarchs. When,
after Healfdene's death, his son Hrothgar succeeded him, his fame in war inclined all his kinsmen
towards him, and he, too, became a mighty monarch.

To the mind of Hrothgar it came to build a lordly mead-hall where he and his men could find
pleasure in feasting, drinking mead, and hearing the songs of the minstrels. Heorot it was
called, and when its high spires rose glistening in the air, all hailed it with delight.

But, alas! The joy in hall, the melody of the harp, and the shouts of the warriors penetrated
to the dismal fen where lay concealed the monster Grendel, descendant of sin-cursed Cain. At
night came Grendel to the hall, found sleeping the troop of warriors, and bore away in his
foul hands thirty of the honored thanes. Great was the sorrow in Heorot when in the morning
twilight the deed of Grendel became known.

For twelve long winters did this sorrow continue; for so long a time was Hrothgar plunged in
grief; for so many years did this beautiful mead-hall, destined for joyful things, stand idle.

While thus the grief-stricken lord of the Scyldings brooded over his wrongs, and the people
besought their idols vainly for aid, the tidings of Grendel's ravages were conveyed to the
court of the Gothic king, Higelac, and thus reached the ears of a highborn thane, Beowulf.
A strong man was he, his grasp equal to that of thirty men.

Straightway commanded he a goodly ship to be made ready, chose fifteen of his bravest Goths,
and swiftly they sailed over the swan-path to the great headlands and bright sea-cliffs of
the Scyldings.

High on the promontory stood the guard of Hrothgar. "What men be ye who hither come?" cried
he. "Not foes, surely. Ye know no pass word, yet surely ye come on no evil errand. Ne'er saw
I a greater lord than he who leads the band. Who are ye?"

"Higelac's man am I," answered the leader. "Ecgtheow, my sire; my name, Beowulf. Lead me, I
pray thee, to thy lord, for I have come over seas to free him forever from his secret foe,
and to lift the cloud that hangs over the stately mead-hall."

Over the stone-paved streets the warder led the warriors, their armor clanking, their boar-tipped
helmets sparkling, to the goodly hall, Heorot. There were they warmly welcomed, for Hrothgar
had known Beowulf's sire; the fame of the young man's strength had also reached him, and he
trusted that in his strong grasp Grendel should die.

All took their seats on the mead-benches, and a thane passed from warrior to warrior, bearing
the chased wine-cup. Sweet was the minstrel's song, and the warriors were happy in Heorot.

But Hunferd sat at the banquet, and envious of Beowulf's fame, taunted him with his swimming
match with Breca. "Seven days and nights thou didst swim with Breca; but he was stronger, and
he won. Worse will befall thee, if thou dar'st this night await Grendel!"

"Easy it is to brag of Breca's deeds when drunk with beer, friend Hunferd!" replied Beowulf.
"Seven days and nights I swam through the sea-water, slaying the monsters of the deep. Rough
was the wave, terrible were the water beasts; but I reached the Finnish land. Wert thou as
brave as thou claim'st to be, Grendel would ne'er have wrought such havoc in thy monarch's land."

Decked with gold, Queen Waltheow passed through the hall, greeted the warriors, and proffered
the mead-cup to Beowulf, thanking God that she had found an earl who would deliver them from
their enemy.

When dusky night fell over Heorot, the king uprose. "To no other man have I ever entrusted
this hall of gold. Have now and keep it! Great reward shall be thine if thou come forth alive!"

The knights left in the lordly hall composed themselves for slumber, all save Beowulf, who,
unarmed, awaited the coming of Grendel.

He came, with wrathful step and eyes aflame, bursting open the iron bolts of the great door,
and laughing at the goodly array of men sleeping before him. On one he laid hands and drank
his blood; then he clutched the watchful Beowulf.

Ne'er had he found a foe like this! Fearful, he turned to flee to his home in the fen, but
the grip of Beowulf forbade flight. Strongly was Heorot builded, but many a gilded mead-bench
was torn from the walls as the two combated within the hall. The sword blade was of no avail,
and him must Beowulf bring to death by the strength of his grip alone. At last, with a scream
that struck terror to every Dane's heart, the monster sprang from Beowulf and fled, leaving
in the warrior's grasp his arm and shoulder. Great was Beowulf's joy, for he knew that the
wound meant death.

When the king and queen came forth in the morning with their nobles and maids, and saw the
grisly arm of Grendel fastened upon the roof of Heorot, they gave themselves up to rejoicing.
Gifts were heaped upon Beowulf,--a golden crest, a banner bright, a great and goodly sword
and helm and corselet, eight steeds with headstalls ornamented with gold plate, and a richly
decorated saddle. Nor were his comrades forgotten, but to each were given rich gifts.

When the mead-hall had been cleansed and refitted, they gathered therein and listened to the
song of the bard who told how Healfdene's knight, Hnaef, smote Finn. The song over, the queen,
crowned with gold, gave gifts to Beowulf, the liberator from the horrors of Grendel,--two armlets,
a necklace, raiment, and rings. When the drinking and feasting were over, the king and Beowulf
withdrew, leaving many earls to keep the hall. Little guessed they that one of them was that
night doomed to die!

The haunt of Grendel was a mile-wide mere. Around it were wolf-haunted cliffs, windy promontories,
mist-covered mountains. Close around the mere hung the woods, shrouding the water, which, horrible
sight, was each night covered with fire. It was a place accursed; near it no man might dwell;
the deer that plunged therein straightway died.

In a palace under the mere dwelt Grendel and his mother; she, a foul sprite, whom the peasants
had sometimes seen walking with her son over the meadows. From her dwelling-place she now came
forth to avenge the death of her son, and snatched away from the group of sleeping Ring-Danes
the good AEschere, dearest of all his thanes to Hrothgar.

Loud was Hrothgar's wailing when at morning Beowulf came forth from his bower.

"Sorrow not, O wise man," spake Beowulf. "I fear not. I will seek out this monster and destroy
her. If I come not back it will at least be better than to have lost my glory. She can never
hide from me. I ween that I will this day rid thee of thine enemy."

Accompanied by Hrothgar, some of the Ring-Danes and his Goths, Beowulf sought the dismal mere,
on whose brink they found the head of AEschere. Among the bloody waves swam horrible shapes,
Nicors and sea-drakes, that fled at a blast of the war-horn. Beowulf slew one of the monsters,
and while his companions were marvelling at the grisly form, he prepared himself for the combat.
His breast was guarded by a coat of mail woven most cunningly; upon his head shone the gold-adorned
helmet, and in his hand was Hunferd's sword, Hrunting, made of iron steeped in twigs of bitter
poison, annealed in battle blood, and fearful to every foe.

"Hearken unto me, O Hrothgar," cried the hero. "If I return not, treat well my comrades and
send my gifts to Higelac, that he may see the deed I have accomplished, and the generous ring-lord
I have gained among the Scyldings." And without waiting for a reply, he leaped into the waves
and was lost to sight.

There was the monster waiting for him; and catching him in her grip, which bruised him not
because of his strong mail-coat, she dragged him to her cave, in whose lighted hall he could
see the horrible features of the woman of the mere. Strong was Hrunting, but of no avail was
its mighty blade against her. Soon he threw it down, and gripped her, reckless of peril. Once
he threw her on the ground, but the second time she threw him, and drew her glaive to pierce
his breast. Strong was the linked mail, and Beowulf was safe. Then his quick eye lighted on
a sword,--a magic, giant sword; few men could wield it. Quickly he grasped it, and smote the
neck of the sea-woman. Broken were the bone-rings, and down she fell dead. Then Ecgtheow's
son looked around the hall and saw the body of the dead Grendel. Thirsting to take his revenge,
he smote him with his sword. Off flew the head; but when the red drops of blood touched the
magic blade it melted, leaving but the massive golden hilt in the hands of the hero. Beowulf
took no treasure from the cave, but rose through the waves, carrying only the head of the monster
and the hilt of the sword.

When Hrothgar and his men saw the mere red and boiling with blood they deemed that Beowulf
was dead, and departed to their citadel. Sorrowful sat the comrades of Beowulf, waiting and
hoping against hope for his reappearance. Up sprang they when they saw him, joyfully greeted
him, relieved him of his bloody armor, and conducted him to Hrothgar, bearing--a heavy task--the
head of Grendel.

When Hrothgar saw the hideous head and the mighty sword-hilt, whose history he read from its
Runic inscriptions, he hailed Beowulf with joy, and proclaimed him the mightiest of men. "But
ever temper thy might with wisdom," advised the king, "that thou suffer not the end of Heremod,
or be punished as I have been, in this my spacious mead-hall."

After a night's rest, Beowulf prepared to return to his country. Returning Hrunting to Hunferd,
he praised the sword, saying nothing of its failure in the fight. Then to Hrothgar: "Farewell.
If e'er thou art harried by foes, but let me know,--a thousand fighting men I'll bring. Higelac,
well I know, will urge me on to honor thee. If e'er thy son seeks Gothic halls, I will intercede
and win friends for him."

The old king, weeping, bade Beowulf farewell. "Peace be forever between the Goths and the Gar-Danes;
in common their treasures! May gifts be interchanged between them!"

The bark was filled with the gifts heaped upon Beowulf and his men; and the warder, who had
hailed them so proudly at their coming, now bade them an affectionate farewell. Over the swan-path
sailed they, and soon reached the Gothic coast, and landed their treasures.

Then went Beowulf before Higelac and told him of his adventures. Higelac was a mighty king;
lofty his house and hall, and fair and gentle was his wife, Hygd. To him, after he had related
his adventures, Beowulf presented the boar-head crest, the battle-mail and sword, four of the
steeds, and much treasure, and upon the wise and modest Hygd bestowed he the wondrous necklace
given him by Waltheow. So should a good thane ever do!

There had been a time when Beowulf was accounted a sluggish knight, but now the land rang with
his glory.

When Higelac died and Hardred was slain, Beowulf succeeded to the throne, and for fifty years
ruled the people gloriously.

At this time a great fire-drake cherished a vast hoard in a cave on a high cliff, difficult
of access, and known to few men. Thither one day fled a thrall from his master's wrath, and
saw the hoard buried by some weary warrior, and now guarded by the dragon. While the drake
slept, the thrall crept in and stole a cup as a peace-offering to his master.

When the drake awoke, he scented the foot-prints of the foe, and discovered his loss. When
even was come, he hastened to wreak his revenge on the people, spewing out flames of fire,
and laying waste the land.

Far and near were the lands of the Goths devastated, and ere long, tidings were borne to Beowulf
that his great hall, his gift seat, was destroyed by fire. Saddened, and fearing that he had
in some way angered God, he turned his mind to vengeance, and girded on his armor. A stout
shield of iron he took, knowing that the dragon's fiery breath would melt the wood, and with
foreboding of his fate, bade farewell to his hearth-mates. "Many times have I battled, great
deeds have I done with sword and with hand-grip; now must I go forth and battle with hand and
sword against the hoard-keeper."

Commanding the men who had accompanied him to remain upon the hillside, leaving him to combat
with the dragon alone, Beowulf went proudly forward, shouting his battle-cry. Out rushed the
dragon, full of deadly hate. His fiery breath was stronger than the king had deemed it. Stroke
upon stroke he gave his enemy, who continued to cast forth his death-fire, so that Beowulf
stood girt with flames.

From afar, among the watching thanes, Wiglaf saw his monarch's peril. "Comrades," he cried,
"do you remember our promises to our king? Was it for this he stirred us up to glorious deeds?
Was it for this he heaped gifts upon us? Let us go to his rescue. It is not right that we should
see our lord fall, and bear away our shields untouched!"

Rushing forward, he cried, "Beowulf, here am I! Now strike for thy life! Thou hast said that
thou never wouldst let thy fame depart from thee!"

Again the dragon came forth; again it enveloped its foeman in flames. The linden shield of
Wiglaf burned in his hands, and he sought shelter behind Beowulf's shield of iron. Again and
again Wiglaf smote the monster, and when the flames burnt low, Beowulf seized his dirk and
pierced the dragon so that he fell dead.

The dragon lay dead, but Beowulf felt the poison in his wounds and knew that he had not long
to live. He commanded Wiglaf to bring forth the treasure that he might gaze upon the hoard,--jewel
work and twisted gold,--that he had wrested from the fire-drake.

The den was filled with rings of gold, cups, banners, jewels, dishes, and the arms of the old
owner of the treasure. All these did Wiglaf bear forth to his lord, who surveyed them, and
uttered thanks to his Maker, that he could win such a treasure. Then, turning to Wiglaf, he
said, "Now I die. Build for me upon the lofty shore a bright mound that shall ever remind my
people of me. Far in the distance their ships shall descry it, and they shall call it Beowulf's
mound." Then, giving his arms to Wiglaf, he bade him enjoy them. "Thou art the last of our
race. All save us, fate-driven, are gone to doom. Thither go I too."

Bitterly did Wiglaf denounce his comrades when he saw them steal from their hiding-places.
"Well may it be said of you that he who gave you your arms threw them away. No thanks deserve
ye for the slaughter of the dragon! I did my little, but it was not in my power to save my
kinsman. Too few helpers stood about him! Now shall your kin be wanting in gifts. Void are
ye of land-rights! Better is it for an earl to die than to live with a blasted name!"

Sorrowful were the people when they heard of the death of Beowulf. Full well they knew with
what joy the tidings would be hailed by their enemies, who would hasten to harry the land,
now that their great leader was gone. The Frisians, the Merovingians, the Franks, the Swedes,--all
had their grievances, which they would hasten to wreak on the Goths when they learned that
the dreaded king was gone. Dreary would be the land of the Goths; on its battle-fields the
wolves would batten; the ravens would call to the eagles as they feasted on the slain.

Straight to the Eagle's Nest went the band, and found their dead monarch; there, too, lay the
loathsome fire-drake, full fifty feet long, and between them the great hoard, rust-eaten from
long dwelling in the earth. Ever had that hoard brought ill with it.

Down from the cliff they thrust the dragon into the deep, and carried their chief to Hronesness.
There they built a lofty pile, decked it with his armor, and burned thereon the body of their
glorious ruler. According to his wish, they reared on the cliff a broad, high barrow, surrounded
it with a wall, and laid within it the treasure. There yet it lies, of little worth to men!

Then around the barrow rode twelve of the bravest, boldest nobles, mourning their king, singing
his praises, chanting a dirge, telling of his glorious deeds, while over the broad land the
Gothic folk lamented the death of their tender prince, their noble king, Beowulf.

SELECTION FROM BEOWULF.

GRENDEL'S MOTHER.

There was great rejoicing in Heorot when Beowulf slew Grendel, and at night the earls again
slept in the hall as they had not dared to do since the coming of the fiend. But Grendel's
mother came to avenge her son's death and slew AEschere, a favorite liegeman of Hrothgar's.
In the morning, Beowulf, who had slept in another part of the palace, was sent for and greeted
Hrothgar, unaware of his loss.

  Hrothgar rejoined, helm of the Scyldings:
  "Ask not of joyance! Grief is renewed to
  The folk of the Danemen. Dead is AEschere,
  Yrmenlaf's brother, older than he,
  My true-hearted counsellor, trusty adviser,
  Shoulder-companion, when fighting in battle
  Our heads we protected, when troopers were clashing,
  And heroes were dashing; such an earl should be ever,
  An erst-worthy atheling, as AEschere proved him.
  The flickering death-spirit became in Heorot
  His hand-to-hand murderer; I cannot tell whither
  The cruel one turned, in the carcass exulting,
  By cramming discovered. The quarrel she wreaked then,
  The last night igone Grendel thou killedst
  In grewsomest manner, with grim-holding clutches,
  Since too long he had lessened my liege-troop and wasted
  My folk-men so foully. He fell in the battle
  With forfeit of life, and another has followed,
  A mighty crime-worker, her kinsman avenging,
  And henceforth hath 'stablished her hatred unyielding,
  As it well may appear to many a liegeman,
  Who mourneth in spirit the treasure-bestower,
  Her heavy heart-sorrow; the hand is now lifeless
  Which availed yon in every wish that you cherished.
  Land-people heard I, liegemen, this saying,
  Dwellers in halls, they had seen very often
  A pair of such mighty march-striding creatures,
  Far-dwelling spirits, holding the moorlands:
  One of them wore, as well they might notice,
  The image of woman, the other one wretched
  In guise of a man wandered in exile,
  Except that he was huger than any of earthmen;
  Earth-dwelling people entitled him Grendel
  In days of yore; they knew not their father,
  Whe'r ill-going spirits any were borne him
  Ever before. They guard the wolf-coverts,
  Lands inaccessible, wind-beaten nesses,
  Fearfullest fen-deeps, where a flood from the mountains
  'Neath mists of the nesses netherward rattles,
  The stream under earth: not far is it henceward
  Measured by mile-lengths that the mere-water standeth,
  Which forests hang over, with frost-whiting covered,
  A firm-rooted forest, the floods overshadow.
  There ever at night one an ill-meaning portent
  A fire-flood may see; 'mong children of men
  None liveth so wise that wot of the bottom;
  Though harassed by hounds the heath-stepper seek for,
  Fly to the forest, firm-antlered he-deer,
  Spurred from afar, his spirit he yieldeth,
  His life on the shore, ere in he will venture
  To cover his head. Uncanny the place is:
  Thence upward ascendeth the surging of waters,
  Wan to the welkin, when the wind is stirring
  The weathers unpleasing, till the air groweth gloomy,
  And the heavens lower. Now is help to be gotten
  From thee and thee only! The abode thou know'st not,
  The dangerous place where thou'rt able to meet with
  The sin-laden hero: seek if thou darest!
  For the feud I will fully fee thee with money,
  With old-time treasure, as erstwhile I did thee,
  With well-twisted jewels, if away thou shalt get thee."

  Beowulf answered, Ecgtheow's son:
  "Grieve not, O wise one! for each it is better,
  His friend to avenge than with vehemence wail him;
  Each of us must the end-day abide of
  His earthly existence; who is able accomplish
  Glory ere death! To battle-thane noble
  Lifeless lying, 't is at last most fitting.
  Arise, O king, quick let us hasten
  To look at the footprint of the kinsman of Grendel!
  I promise thee this now: to his place he'll escape not,
  To embrace of the earth, nor to mountainous forest,
  Nor to depths of the ocean, wherever he wanders.
  Practice thou now patient endurance
  Of each of thy sorrows, as I hope for thee soothly!"
  Then up sprang the old one, the All-Wielder thanked he,
  Ruler Almighty, that the man had outspoken.
  Then for Hrothgar a war-horse was decked with a bridle,
  Curly-maned courser. The clever folk-leader
  Stately proceeded: stepped then an earl-troop
  Of linden-wood bearers. Her foot-prints were seen then
  Widely in wood-paths, her way o'er the bottoms,
  Where she far-away fared o'er fen-country murky,
  Bore away breathless the best of retainers
  Who pondered with Hrothgar the welfare of country.
  The son of the athelings then went o'er the stony,
  Declivitous cliffs, the close-covered passes,
  Narrow passages, paths unfrequented,
  Nesses abrupt, nicker-haunts many;
  One of a few of wise-mooded heroes,
  He onward advanced to view the surroundings,
  Till he found unawares woods of the mountain
  O'er hoar-stones hanging, holt-wood unjoyful;
  The water stood under, welling and gory.
  'T was irksome in spirit to all of the Danemen,
  Friends of the Scyldings, to many a liegeman
  Sad to be suffered, a sorrow unlittle
  To each of the earlmen, when to AEschere's head they
  Came on the cliff. The current was seething
  With blood and with gore (the troopers gazed on it).
  The horn anon sang the battle-song ready.
  The troop were all seated; they saw 'long the water then
  Many a serpent, mere-dragons wondrous
  Trying the waters, nickers a-lying
  On the cliffs of the nesses, which at noonday full often
  Go on the sea-deeps their sorrowful journey,
  Wild-beasts and worm-kind; away then they hastened
  Hot-mooded, hateful, they heard the great clamor,
  The war-trumpet winding. One did the Geat-prince
  Sunder from earth-joys, with arrow from bowstring,
  From his sea-struggle tore him, that the trusty war-missile
  Pierced to his vitals; he proved in the currents
  Less doughty at swimming whom death had off-carried.
  Soon in the waters the wonderful swimmer
  Was straitened most sorely and pulled to the cliff-edge;
  The liegemen then looked on the loath-fashioned stranger.
  Beowulf donned then his battle-equipments,
  Cared little for life; inlaid and most ample,
  The hand-woven corselet which could cover his body,
  Must the wave-deeps explore, that war might be powerless
  To harm the great hero, and the hating one's grasp might
  Not peril his safety; his head was protected
  By the light-flashing helmet that should mix with the bottoms,
  Trying the eddies, treasure-emblazoned,
  Encircled with jewels, as in seasons long past
  The weapon-smith worked it, wondrously made it,
  With swine-bodies fashioned it, that thenceforward no longer
  Brand might bite it, and battle-sword hurt it.
  And that was not least of helpers in prowess
  That Hrothgar's spokesman had lent him when straitened;
  And the hilted hand-sword was Hrunting entitled,
  Old and most excellent 'mong all of the treasures;
  Its blade was of iron, blotted with poison,
  Hardened with gore; it failed not in battle
  Any hero under heaven in hand who it brandished,
  Who ventured to take the terrible journeys,
  The battle-field sought; not the earliest occasion
  That deeds of daring 't was destined to 'complish.
  Ecglaf's kinsman minded not soothly,
  Exulting in strength, what erst he had spoken
  Drunken with wine, when the weapon he lent to
  A sword-hero bolder; himself did not venture
  'Neath the strife of the currents his life to endanger,
  To fame-deeds perform; there he forfeited glory,
  Repute for his strength. Not so with the other
  When he, clad in his corselet, had equipped him for battle.

  Beowulf spoke, Ecgtheow's son:
  "Recall now, oh, famous kinsman of Healfdene,
  Prince very prudent, now to part I am ready,
  Gold-friend of earl-men, what erst we agreed on,
  Should I lay down my life in lending thee assistance,
  When my earth-joys were over, thou wouldst evermore serve me
  In stead of a father; my faithful thanemen,
  My trusty retainers, protect thou and care for,
  Fall I in battle: and, Hrothgar beloved,
  Send unto Higelac the high-valued jewels
  Thou to me hast allotted. The lord of the Geatmen
  May perceive from the gold, the Hrethling may see it
  When he looks on the jewels, that a gem-giver found I
  Good over-measure, enjoyed him while able.
  And the ancient heirloom Unferth permit thou,
  The famed one to have, the heavy-sword splendid,
  The hard-edged weapon; with Hrunting to aid me,
  I shall gain me glory, or grim death shall take me."
  The atheling of Geatmen uttered these words and
  Heroic did hasten, not any rejoinder
  Was willing to wait for; the wave-current swallowed
  The doughty-in-battle. Then a day's-length elapsed ere
  He was able to see the sea at its bottom.
  Early she found then who fifty of winters
  The course of the currents kept in her fury,
  Grisly and greedy, that the grim one's dominion
  Some one of men from above was exploring.
  Forth did she grab them, grappled the warrior
  With horrible clutches; yet no sooner she injured
  His body unscathed: the burnie out-guarded,
  That she proved but powerless to pierce through the armor,
  The limb-mail locked, with loath-grabbing fingers.
  The sea-wolf bare then, when bottomward came she,
  The ring-prince homeward, that he after was powerless.
  (He had daring to do it) to deal with his weapons,
  But many a mere-beast tormented him swimming,
  Flood-beasts no few with fierce-biting tusks did
  Break through his burnie, the brave one pursued they.
  The earl then discovered he was down in some cavern
  Where no water whatever anywise harmed him,
  And the clutch of the current could not come anear him,
  Since the roofed-hall prevented; brightness a-gleaming
  Fire-light he saw, flashing, resplendent.
  The good one saw then the sea-bottom's monster,
  The mighty mere-woman; he made a great onset
  With weapon-of-battle, his hand not desisted
  From striking, that war-blade struck on her head then
  A battle-song greedy. The stranger perceived then
  The sword would not bite, her life would not injure,
  But the falchion failed the folk prince when straitened:
  Erst had it often onsets encountered,
  Oft cloven the helmet, the fated one's armor:
  'T was the first time that ever the excellent jewel
  Had failed of its fame. Firm-mooded after,
  Not heedless of valor, but mindful of glory,
  Was Higelac's kinsman; the hero-chief angry
  Cast then his carved-sword covered with jewels
  That it lay on earth, hard and steel-pointed;
  He hoped in his strength, his hand-grapple sturdy.
  So any must act whenever he thinketh
  To gain him in battle glory unending,
  And is reckless of living. The lord of the War-Geats
  (He shrank not from battle) seized by the shoulder
  The mother of Grendel; then mighty in struggle
  Swung he his enemy, since his anger was kindled,
  That she fell to the floor. With furious grapple
  She gave him requital early thereafter,
  And stretched out to grab him; the strongest of warriors
  Faint-mooded stumbled, till he fell in his traces,
  Foot-going champion. Then she sat on the hall-guest
  And wielded her war-knife wide-bladed, flashing,
  For her son would take vengeance, her one only bairn.
  His breast-armor woven bode on his shoulder;
  It guarded his life, the entrance defended
  'Gainst sword-point and edges. Ecgtheow's son there
  Had fatally journeyed, champion of Geatmen,
  In the arms of the ocean, had the armor not given,
  Close-woven corselet, comfort and succor,
  And had God most holy not awarded the victory,
  All-knowing Lord; easily did heaven's
  Ruler most righteous arrange it with justice;
  Uprose he erect ready for battle. He glanced 'long the building,
  And turned by the wall then, Higelac's vassal
  Raging and wrathful raised his battle-sword
  Strong by the handle. The edge was not useless
  To the hero-in-battle, but he speedily wished to
  Give Grendel requital for the many assaults he
  Had worked on the West-Danes not once, but often,
  When he slew in slumber the subjects of Hrothgar,
  Swallowed down fifteen sleeping retainers
  Of the folk of the Danemen, and fully as many
  Carried away, a horrible prey.
  He gave him requital, grim-raging champion,
  When he saw on his rest-place weary of conflict
  Grendel lying, of life-joys bereaved,
  As the battle at Heorot erstwhile had scathed him;
  His body far bounded, a blow when he suffered,
  Death having seized him, sword-smiting heavy,
  And he cut off his head then. Early this noticed
  The clever carles who as comrades of Hrothgar
  Gazed on the sea-deeps, that the surging wave-currents
  Were mightily mingled, the mere-flood was gory:
  Of the good one the gray-haired together held converse,
  The hoary of head, that they hoped not to see again
  The atheling ever, that exulting in victory
  He'd return there to visit the distinguished folk-ruler:
  Then many concluded the mere-wolf had killed him.
  The ninth hour came then. From the ness-edge departed
  The bold-mooded Scyldings; the gold-friend of heroes
  Homeward betook him. The strangers sat down then
  Soul-sick, sorrowful, the sea-waves regarding:
  They wished and yet weened not their well-loved friend-lord
  To see any more.
  Nor took he of jewels more in the dwelling,
  Lord of the Weders, though they lay all around him,
  Than the head and the handle handsome with jewels;
  The brand early melted, burnt was the weapon:
  So hot was the blood, the strange-spirit poisonous
  That in it did perish. He early swam off then
  Who had bided in combat the carnage of haters,
  Went up through the ocean; the eddies were cleansed,
  The spacious expanses, when the spirit from farland
  His life put aside and this short-lived existence.
  The seamen's defender came swimming to land then
  Doughty of spirit, rejoiced in his sea-gift,
  The bulky burden which he bore in his keeping.
  The excellent vassals advanced then to meet him,
  To God they were grateful, were glad in their chieftain,
  That to see him safe and sound was granted them.
  From the high-minded hero, then, helmet and burnie
  Were speedily loosened: the ocean was putrid,
  The water 'neath welkin weltered with gore.
  Forth did they fare, then, their footsteps retracing,
  Merry and mirthful, measured the earth-way,
  To highway familiar: men very daring
  Bare then the head from the sea-cliff, burdening
  Each of the earlmen, excellent-valiant.
  Four of them had to carry with labor
  The head of Grendel to the high towering gold-hall
  Upstuck on the spear, till fourteen most-valiant
  And battle-brave Geatmen came there going
  Straight to the palace: the prince of the people
  Measured the mead-ways, their mood-brave companion,
  The atheling of earlmen entered the building,
  Deed-valiant man, adorned with distinction,
  Doughty shield-warrior, to address King Hrothgar:
  Then hung by the hair, the head of Grendel
  Was borne to the building, where beer-thanes were drinking,
  Loth before earlmen and eke 'fore the lady:
  The warriors beheld then a wonderful sight.
         J. L. Hall's Translation, Parts XXI.-XXIV.

THE NIBELUNGEN LIED.

The Nibelungen Lied, or Song of the Nibelungen, was written about the beginning of the thirteenth
century, though the events it chronicles belong to the sixth or seventh century. The manuscript
poem was discovered about the middle of the eighteenth century.

Whoever was its author, he was only a compiler of legends that were the property of the people
for centuries, and are found in many other of the popular German epics of the Middle Ages.
It is based on material obtained from four sources: (1) The Frankish saga-cycle, whose hero
is Siegfried; (2) the saga-cycle of Burgundy, whose heroes are Guenther, king of Worms, and
his two brothers; (3) the Ostrogothic saga-cycle, whose hero is Dietrich of Bern; and (4) the
saga-cycle of Etzel, king of the Huns, with his allies and vassals.

Dietrich of Bern is supposed to be Theodoric of Italy, in exile at the Hunnish court. Etzel
is Attila the Hun, and Guenther, Gunducarius, king of the Burgundians, who was destroyed by
the Huns with his followers in the year 436.

The Nibelungen Lied very much resembles the Iliad, not only in the uncertainty of its origin
and the impersonality of its author, but also in its objectivity, its realism, the primitive
passions of its heroes, and the wondrous acts of valor performed by them. It contains many
passages of wonderful beauty, and gives a striking picture of the social customs and the religious
belief of the time.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE NIBELUNGEN LIED.

Mary Elizabeth Burt's Story of the German Iliad, 1892;

Thomas Carlyle's Nibelungen Lied (see his Miscellaneous Essays, 1869, vol. iii., pp. 111-162);

Sir G. W. Cox and E. H. Jones's Nibelungen Lied (see their Tales of the Teutonic Lands, 1872,
pp. 79-132);

G. T. Dippold's Nibelungenlied (see his Great Epics of Mediaeval Germany, 1882, pp. 1-117);

William T. Dobson's Nibelungenlied Epitomized (see his Classic Poets, 1878);

Auber Forestier's Echoes from Mistland, or the Nibelungen Lay Revealed, Tr. by A. A. Woodward,
1877;

Joseph Gostwick's and Robert Harrison's Nibelungenlied (see their Outlines of German Literature,
n. d., pp. 16-24);

Hugh Reginald Haweis's Nibelungenlied (see his Musical Memories, 1887, pp. 225-250);

Frederick Henry Hedge's Nibelungenlied (see his Hours with the German Classics, 1887, pp. 25-55);

James K. Hosmer's Nibelungen Lied (see his Short History of German Literature, 1891, pp. 23-77);

J. P. Jackson's Ring of the Nibelung, Cosmopolitan, 1888, vol. vi. pp. 415-433;

Henry W. Longfellow's Nibelungenlied (see his Poets and Poetry of Europe, new ed., enlarged,
1882, pp. 217-227);

J. M. F. Ludlow's Lay and Lament of the Niblungs (see his Popular Epics of the Middle Ages,
1865, pp. 105-183);

E. Magnusson and William Morris's Voelsungs Saga, story of the Voelsungs and Niblungs, 1870;

William Morris's Story of Sigurd the Volsung and the Fall of the Niblungs, 1887;

F. Max Mueller's Das Nibelungenlied (see his German Classics, new ed., 1893, vol. i., pp. 112-136);

Ernst Raupach's Nibelungen Treasure, a tragedy from the German with remarks, 1847;

A. M. Richey's Teutonic and the Celtic Epic, Fraser's Magazine, 1874, vol. lxxxix., pp. 336-354;

Wilhelm Scherer's Nibelungenlied (see his History of German Literature, 1893, vol. i., pp.
101-115);

Leda M. Schoonamaker's Nibelungen Lied, Harper's Magazine, 1877, vol. lv., pp. 38-51;

Bayard Taylor's Nibelungen Lied (see his Studies in German Literature, 1893, pp. 101-134);

Wilhelm Wagner's Nibelungenlied (see his Epics and Romances of the Middle Ages, 1883, pp. 229-306);

Henry Weber's The Song of the Nibelungen (see Weber and Jamieson, Illustrations of Northern
Antiquities, 1874, pp. 167-213).

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE NIBELUNGEN.

The Nibelungen Lied, Tr. by Alfred G. Foster Barham, 1887;

The Lay of the Nibelungers, Tr. into English text after Lachman's text by Jonathan Birch, ed.
3, 1887;

The Nibelungenlied, Tr. by Joseph Gostwick (see his Spirit of German Poetry, 1843);

The Fall of the Nibelungers, Tr. by William Nanson Lettsom, ed. 2, 1874.

THE STORY OF THE NIBELUNGEN LIED.

In the beautiful city of Worms, in Burgundy, dwelt the maiden Kriemhild, surpassing all others
in beauty. Her father, long since dead, was Dancrat; her mother, Uta, and her three brothers,--Guenther,
Gernot, and Giselher,--puissant princes whose pride it was to guard their lovely sister. Among
the noble lords their liegemen were Hagan of Trony, Dankwart, his brother, Ortwine of Metz,
Eckewart, Gary, Folker, Rumolt the steward, Sindolt the butler, and Humolt the chamberlain.

The peace of the beautiful Kriemhild was one night disturbed by a dream, in which she saw a
young falcon that she had long reared with tender care torn to pieces by two fierce eagles.
When she confided this dream to her mother, the wise Uta declared that it meant that she would
one day wed a fair prince threatened with a dreadful doom.

"Then I will never wed!" cried Kriemhild. "Better to forego the bliss thou tellest me attends
only the wedded state than to taste the anguish foretold by my dream." Alas! little could she
guess of what the future held in store for her.

In the wide country of the Netherlands, in the city of Xanten, dwelt the great prince Siegmund
and his wife Sieglind. Their kingdom was wide, their wealth great, but nothing gave them so
much happiness as the renown of their glorious son Siegfried. Such mighty deeds of valor had
he performed that his fame was already world-wide, though he was but a youth. To Xanten the
fame of the peerless princess Kriemhild had penetrated, and the young prince declared to his
parents his intention of seeking her out in Burgundy, and wooing her for his wife. All entreaties
were in vain; with but twelve companions, each fitted out with the most gorgeous vestments,
by the care of the queen mother, the haughty prince advanced into Burgundy.

King Guenther, surprised at the sight of the splendidly attired strangers, called one after
another of his knights to inform him who they were. None knew, until Hagan was at last called
because he was familiar with the warriors of every land. He did not know them. "But," said
he, "though I have never set eyes on him, I'll wager that is the noble Siegfried, the mighty
warrior who slew the Nibelungers. Once, so I have heard the story, when he was riding alone,
he saw the two kings Nibelung and Shilbung dividing the treasure of the Niblungs. They had
just brought it out from the cavern where it was guarded by the dwarf Albric, and they called
Siegfried to come and divide it for them. The task was so great that he did not finish it,
and when the angry kings set upon him he slew them both, their giant champions and chiefs,
and then overcame the dwarf Albric, and possessed himself of his wondrous cloud-cloak. So he
is now lord of the Nibelungers and owner of the mighty treasure. Not only this, my king; he
once slew a poison-spitting dragon and bathed in its blood, so that his skin is invulnerable.
Treat the young prince with respect. It would be ill-advised to arouse his hatred."

While the king and his counsellors were admiring his haughty bearing, Siegfried and his followers
advanced to the hall and were fittingly welcomed. Siegfried haughtily declared that he had
come to learn if Guenther's renown for knighthood was correct, and wished to fight with him,
with their respective kingdoms as stakes. Guenther had no desire to fight with such a doughty
warrior, and he hastened to soothe Siegfried's wrath with gentle words, inviting him to remain
as his guest.

So happy was Siegfried in the tourneys and games enjoyed by Guenther's court, that he remained
in Worms for a year, and in all that time never set eyes on Kriemhild. How enraptured would
he have been had he known that the gentle maiden watched for him daily at her lattice, and
came to long for a glimpse of the handsome stranger!

At the end of the year tidings were brought to Worms that the Saxons, led by King Luedeger,
and Luedegast, king of Denmark, were marching against Burgundy. The Burgundians were terrified
at the news; but Siegfried, delighted at the thought of war, begged Guenther to give him but
a thousand Burgundians, in addition to the twelve comrades he had brought with him, and he
would pledge himself to defeat, unaided, the presumptuous enemy. Many were the camps of the
foe; full forty thousand were there mustered out to fight, but Siegfried quickly scattered
them, slew many thousands, and took the two kings prisoners.

How joyful the melancholy Kriemhild became when the messenger bore to her the glad tidings!
Ruddy gold and costly garments he gained for his good news.

On Siegfried's return he first met and loved Kriemhild. More blooming than May, sweeter than
summer's pride, she stood by the gallant warrior, who dared not yet to woo her. The twelve
days of revel in celebration of the victory were one long dream of bliss to the happy lovers.

While Siegfried was still lingering at Guenther's court, tidings were brought thither of the
beauty, prowess, and great strength of Brunhild, Queen of Issland, and Guenther determined
to go thither and woo her. Siegfried implored him not to go.

"Thou knowest not what thou must undertake," he said. "Thou must take part in her contests,
throw the javelin, throw the stone and jump after it, and if thou fail in even one of these
three games thou must lose thy life and that of thy companions."

When Siegfried found that he could not move Guenther, he promised to go with him and assist
him, on condition that on their return Guenther would give him the beautiful Kriemhild for
his wife.

Attired in the most splendid raiment, prepared by the willing fingers of Kriemhild and her
maids, Guenther, with only three companions, Siegfried, Hagan, and Dankwart, set forth to Issland.
Siegfried requested his companions to inform Brunhild that he was Guenther's man; and when
she welcomed him first, he himself told her to speak first to his master. The little party
was greatly impressed with the splendor of Brunhild's three turreted palaces, and with the
beauty and prodigious strength of the queen. When they saw her huge golden shield, steel-studded,
beneath whose weight four chamberlains staggered, and the immense javelin of the war-like maid,
the warriors trembled for their lives, all save Siegfried, who, wrapped in his cloud-cloak,
invisible to all, stood behind the bewildered Guenther.

"Give me thy buckler," he whispered. "Now make but the motions, and I will hurl both spear
and stone. But keep this a secret if thou wouldst save both our lives."

To the surprise of every one Guenther won the games, and Brunhild, surprised and mortified,
ordered her followers to bow to her better, and returned to the castle to make ready for the
journey to Worms.

Siegfried carried the tidings to Worms, and the bridal party was met and welcomed at the banks
of the Rhine by the Queen Uta, Kriemhild, and a large following. During the wedding feast,
Siegfried reminded Guenther of his promise, and the king, calling Kriemhild to him, affianced
the two in the presence of the company.

When the suspicious Brunhild saw Siegfried sitting at the table of the king, she was angered,
for she had been told that he was a vassal. Although she could get no satisfaction from Guenther,
she suspected some secret. When she and Guenther retired for the night she conquered him, tied
him hand and foot with her magic girdle, and hung him on the wall until morning. Guenther,
overcome with wrath and vexation, told his humiliation to Siegfried the next morning at the
minster. "Be comforted," said Siegfried. "Tonight I will steal into thy chamber wrapped in
my mist-cloak, and when the lights are extinguished I will wrestle with her until I deprive
her of the magic ring and girdle."

After some hesitation, Guenther assented, and Brunhild, supposing she was conquered by Guenther,
yielded herself willingly to her husband and lost all her former strength. Siegfried carried
away her girdle and ring and gave them to his wife, little suspecting what harm they would
do him in the years to come.

The wedding festivities over, Siegfried took his bride home to the Netherlands, where their
arrival was celebrated with the greatest festivities. Siegmund placed the crown on his son's
head, and Siegfried and Kriemhild ruled happily over the kingdom for ten years, during which
time a son was born to them, christened Guenther for his uncle.

During these years Brunhild had been fretting that the supposed vassal, Siegfried, had never
come to pay homage to his king. At last, affecting a great longing to see Kriemhild once more,
she induced Guenther to invite his sister and her husband to visit them. This he did gladly,
and on their arrival many days were spent in feasting, merrymaking, and the tourney.

But one day, when the two queens were watching the tilting in the castle court, Kriemhild,
excited by the victories of her husband, declared that Siegfried, because of his might, ought
to be ruler of Burgundy. This angered Brunhild, who reproached the wife of a vassal for such
presumption.

"My husband a vassal!" exclaimed the indignant Kriemhild. "He, ruler of the Netherlands, who
holds a higher place than my brother Guenther! I cannot endure thy insolence longer."

"I will see," said Brunhild, "this very day whether thou receivest the public respect and honor
paid to me."

"I am ready for the test," responded Kriemhild, "and I will show thee to-day, before our following,
that I dare to enter the church before Guenther's queen."

When the two queens met on the minster steps, and Brunhild declared that no vassaless should
enter before her, Kriemhild reproached her for being the leman of Siegfried, and displayed
in proof the ring and girdle he had taken from Brunhild. Rage and fury rendered Brunhild speechless.
The kings were summoned, and both denied the truth of Kriemhild's words. But the two queens
were now bitter enemies, and the followers of Brunhild, among them the gloomy Hagan of Trony,
were deeply angered at Siegfried and his queen. Hagan laid a plot to destroy Siegfried, and
Guenther, though at first unwilling, was at last induced to enter it.

Pretended messengers came to announce to Guenther that the Saxons again threatened war against
him. Siegfried proposed to take part in the war, and preparations were at once begun. Hagan,
with pretended tenderness, told Kriemhild of the coming danger, and asked her if her lord had
a weak place, that he might know and guard it for him. Kriemhild confided to him her husband's
secret. When Siegfried was bathing in the dragon's blood, a leaf fell between his shoulders,
and that spot was vulnerable. There she would embroider a cross on his vesture that Hagan might
protect him in the shock of battle.

The war was now abandoned and a great hunt undertaken. Gernot and Giselher, though they did
not see fit to warn Siegfried, refused to take part in the plot and go to the hunt. Many a
lion, elk, and boar fell by Siegfried's hand that day before the hunters were called together
to the royal breakfast; when they at last sat down in the flowery meadow the wine was wanting,
and the warriors were compelled to quench their thirst at a brooklet near by.

"A race!" cried the hero; and he, Hagan, and Guenther ran for the brook, Siegfried gaining
it first. After the king had quenched his thirst, Siegfried threw down his arms and stooped
to drink. Then Hagan, picking up his ashen spear, threw it at the embroidered cross, and Siegfried
fell in the agonies of death, reproaching his traitorous friends whom he had served so faithfully.

To add cruelty to cruelty, the vindictive Hagan placed the body of Siegfried outside Kriemhild's
chamber door, where she would stumble over it as she went out to early mass next morning. Down
she fell fainting when she recognized her husband, and reviving, shrieked in her anguish, "Brunhild
planned it; Hagan struck the blow!"

Her grief was terrible to see. One moment the unhappy queen was accusing herself for revealing
her husband's secret; again she was vowing revenge against Hagan, and at another time she reviled
the traitorous Guenther.

When her father-in-law Siegmund returned home, she would not go with him, but remained near
the body of her husband, under the protection of her brothers Gernot and Giselher and in the
company of her mother.

Kriemhild, living in joyless state in her lonely palace, was at last induced to speak to Guenther
and pardon him. The pardon granted, Guenther and Hagan at once plotted to have the Nibelungen
hoard, Siegfried's morning-gift to Kriemhild, brought to Worms. Never before was such a treasure
seen. Twelve huge wagons, journeying thrice a day, required four nights and days to carry it
from the mountain to the bay. It consisted of nothing but precious stones and gold, and with
it was the magic wishing-rod. It filled Kriemhild's towers and chambers to overflowing, and
won many friends for the queen, who distributed it liberally.

When the envious Hagan could not induce Guenther to take the treasure from Kriemhild, he selected
a time when the king and his brothers were away from home, and seizing the treasure, cast it
into the Rhine, hoping to get it again. In this he failed, so the great treasure was forever lost.

Thus ends the first part of the Lay of the Nibelungen. The second part is sometimes called
the Need or Fall of the Nibelungen.

While Kriemhild was bewailing her loss and revolving plans for revenge, Etzel, King of the
Huns, who had heard of the charms of Siegfried's widow, sent the noble Margrave Ruedeger into
Burgundy with proposals for her hand.

Guenther and his brothers begged Kriemhild to accept the offer; their counsellors advised it;
only the sage Hagan protested. He knew too well how Kriemhild longed for revenge. "When once
she gets among the Huns, she will make us rue the day," said he.

But the others laughed at Hagan's scruples. The land of the Huns was far away, and they need
never set foot in it. Moreover, it was their duty to make Kriemhild happy.

Moved by the eloquence of Ruedeger, Kriemhild consented to wed Etzel, and set out in great
state to meet the king.

She was splendidly entertained along the way, tarried a short time at the home of the Margrave
Ruedeger, and at Tulna met the great monarch Etzel, riding to meet her, among his hosts of
Russians, Polacks, Greeks, and Wallachians.

The splendid wedding-feast was held at Vienna. Kriemhild was received with the greatest honor,
and so lavish was she of the gold and jewels she had brought with her, and so gracious to the
attendant Huns, that every one loved her, and willingly worked her will.

For seven long years she and Attila lived happy together, and to them was given a son whom
they christened Ortlieb. Then Kriemhild, still remembering her loss and the cruelties of her
Burgundian relatives and friends, bethought herself of her revenge.

Feigning a great desire to see her brothers, she entreated Etzel to invite them to visit her;
and the king, not suspecting her fell purpose, and glad of an opportunity to welcome her friends,
at once despatched messengers with the invitation.

This time other counsellors besides Hagan mistrusted the queen, and advised King Guenther and
his brothers to decline the invitation. But the princes grew angry at their advice; and Hagan,
who could not endure to be laughed at, set forth with them, accompanied with a great train
of warriors.

The Rhine was too swollen to ford, and Hagan was sent up the stream to find a ferryman. As
he looked for the boatman, he spied some mermaids bathing, and seizing their garments, would
not restore them until they told him what would befall the Burgundians in Hungary.

"Safe will you ride to Etzel's court, and safe return," said one, as he returned the garments.
But as he turned to go, another called: "My aunt has lied to thee that she might get back her
raiment. Turn now, or you will never live to see Burgundy. None save the chaplain will return
in safety."

Hagan went on gloomily and found the ferryman, who, proud and sullen, refused to take the party
across. Hagan slew him, and, returning with the boat, threw the unfortunate chaplain into the
river, thinking by drowning him to prove the mermaid's prophecy untrue. But the chaplain escaped
to the other side, and walked back to Burgundy. Then Hagan told the party of the prophecy and
they resolved to go on together, though they realized that they were going to their doom.

Because of the slaughter of the ferryman, they were attacked by Gelfrat, the ruler of the land;
but he was overcome and slain by Dankwart.

The Margrave Ruedeger received the travellers hospitably, and betrothed his fair daughter to
Giselher. He then accompanied the Burgundians to Etzel's court.

The Burgundians suspected Kriemhild from the first. Giselher was the only one of her brothers
whom she kissed, and she and Hagan quarrelled over the treasure at their first meeting.

They were warned by Eckewart, who had accompanied Kriemhild from Burgundy, and by Dietrich
of Bern, an exile at the court of Etzel, who told them that every morning since her stay in
Hunland she had moaned and wailed for Siegfried. By Hagan's advice they all kept on their armor,
telling Etzel that it was the custom in their country to wear it for the first three days.

Kriemhild's design was to destroy Hagan and spare her brothers. But Hagan, on his guard, drove
her warriors away from his room at night, and saved himself at church from the jostling Hunnish
lords, never, in the mean time, sparing his insults to Kriemhild.

The Huns, who were devoted to their queen, were not slow in showing their anger at Hagan's
treatment of her, and the ill feeling between the warriors increased as the days passed by.

As the Burgundians sat at the banquet with Etzel and his wife, in burst Dankwart, exclaiming
that he had been attacked by Bloedel, who had slain all his followers.

"Be stirring, brother Hagan!" he cried. "Help me to avenge my wrongs!"

At this moment the little prince Ortlieb had been brought into the hall and passed around among
the guests.

"Let us drink to friendship with moody Kriemhild in king's wine!" cried Hagan, and with one
blow of the sword sent the child's head in his mother's lap. Then arose a fearful clamor. Spear
rang against shield, and the cries of the fierce Huns mingled with the defiant shouts of the
Burgundians.

Dietrich of Bern, leaping upon a bench, asked King Guenther, that, as a friend to both parties,
he might be permitted to withdraw from the hall with his friends. When the Burgundians assented,
he led forth the king and queen. The same privilege was accorded to Ruedeger.

Then, while the terrible Folker guarded the door with his fiddle bow, one side of which was
a trenchant sword, the battle began. The Burgundians taunted the Huns with their weakness and
cowardice until they ventured into the hall and were cut down by Hagan and his desperate men.
When evening fell the thousand and four who had entered the hall all lay dead by the hands
of the Burgundians.

When Kriemhild's offer to give her brothers their lives if they would surrender Hagan was refused,
she ordered fire to be set to the four corners of the hall, thinking thus to drive them forth.
But the burning rafters fell into the rivers of blood and were quenched, and the Burgundians
derived new courage and strength from huge draughts of blood from their fallen foes.

Then Kriemhild and Etzel, seeing how their Hunnish men had fallen, and perceiving that the
Burgundians were in no wise injured by the fire, reproached the Margrave Ruedeger that he did
not enter the fight. In vain he told them of his friendship with the princes; of the betrothal
of his daughter and Giselher. Kriemhild persisted in reminding him of the promise he had made
to serve her to her dying day. At last he reluctantly summoned his men, and bidding farewell
to his cruel king and queen, he entered the hall. Gladly was he welcomed by the Burgundians,
who could not believe that he came to do battle with them. He explained how he was forced to
fight them, and amid the tears of both sides, he exchanged shields with Hagan, whose buckler
was broken. Then was the grim Hagan moved to tears, and he vowed not to touch Ruedeger in the
fight. Fearful was the clatter of shield and blade as Ruedeger fought with Gernot, and fell
at last by the blade he had himself given the prince.

Great was the wailing of the Huns when they saw the lifeless body of Ruedeger, and deeply did
Etzel regret the loss of the valiant and true margrave.

Dietrich of Bern, who sat afar off, sent some of his best warriors under his man Hildebrand,
to inquire of the truth of the report of Ruedeger's death. These fiery men disobeyed the orders
of their master, and fought with the Burgundians until none remained save Guenther and Hagan
on one side, and Hildebrand on the other.

When Dietrich heard of the slaughter of his followers, he was overcome with sorrow, and himself
sought the hall. He promised Guenther and Hagan that if they would surrender, he would himself
lead them back in safety to Burgundy; but to this they would not consent. By this time they
were so worn out, however, from the long battle, that Dietrich easily overpowered them and
led them captive before Kriemhild, who promised to show them fair treatment.

But Kriemhild's mind had become so warped by her desire for revenge, that she could not think
of mercy. She cast her prisoners into separate dungeons, and visiting Hagan first, demanded
her treasure. "But give it to me again, and thou shalt return living into Burgundy."

"Pray not to me, haughty queen," replied Hagan. "I swore that while my lords were living I
would ne'er tell where it lies. Thy prayer is thrown away."

Straightway the savage Kriemhild ordered the head of Guenther to be struck off, and bearing
it by the hair, she displayed it to Hagan, asking him now to tell her the secret.

"Now that all my lords are dead," said he, "no one shall know, thou least of all, she-fiend!"

Kriemhild, beside herself with grief and rage, snatched from him the sword Balmung that he
had taken from Siegfried, and ever since carried, and raising it high with both hands, struck
off the head of her hated enemy.

At this the grief of Etzel broke forth, and the aged Hildebrand, enraged to see a woman do
such deeds, sprang upon Kriemhild and smote her to death with his sword.

Bitterly wept King Etzel and Dietrich as they gazed on the corpses scattered round, and the
disfigured body of the fair queen. Nothing remained for the Hunnish people but grief and woe.

Here on earth pain ever follows in the steps of pleasure.

SELECTIONS FROM THE NIBELUNGEN LIED.

HOW BRUNHILD WAS RECEIVED AT WORMS.

Brunhild, queen of Issland, was won by Guenther of Worms with the aid of Siegfried, whom Guenther
sent forward to Worms to announce the coming of the royal pair. Queen Uta and Princess Kriemhild,
with many followers from the Burgundian court, went forward to the Rhine to meet and welcome
the royal bridal party.

  Beyond the Rhine King Guenther, with many a well-arm'd rank
  And all his guests about him, rode towards the river's bank;
  You might see by the bridle led forward many a maid.
  Those, who were to receive them, were ready all array'd.

  Soon as the men of Issland came to the shallops down,
  And eke the Nibelungers, lieges of Siegfried's crown,
  To th' other shore they hasten'd (busy was every hand)
  Where them the friends of Guenther awaited on the strand.

  Now hear, by wealthy Uta what a device was wrought.
  Down with her from the castle a virgin train she brought,
  That rode where she was riding in that procession bright;
  So many a maid acquainted became with many a knight.

  Kriemhild by the bridle the Margrave Gary led,
  But only from the castle; then forward Siegfried sped,
  And did that gentle service; fair was the blushing maid;
  Full well for that thereafter the warrior she repaid.

  Ortwine, the fearless champion, rode by Dame Uta's rein;
  Knights and maids together follow'd, a social train.
  At such a stately meeting, all must confess, I ween,
  So many lovely ladies were ne'er together seen.

  Full many a famous champion careering you might spy
  (Ill there was sloth and idlesse) beneath fair Kriemhild's eye
  E'en to the place of landing; by knights of fair renown
  There many a high-born lady from steed was lifted down.

  The king was now come over, and many a worthy guest.
  Ah, before the ladies what spears were laid in rest!
  How many went in shivers at every hurtling close!
  Buckler clashed with buckler; ah, what a din arose!

  Now might you see the ladies fast by the haven stand.
  With his guests King Guenther debark'd upon the strand,
  In his hand soft leading the martial maiden fair.
  Then each on each flash'd radiance, rich robes and jewels rare.

  With that the smiling Kriemhild forth stepp'd a little space,
  And Brunhild and her meiny greeted with gentle grace,
  Each with snowy fingers back her headband drew,
  And either kiss'd the other lovingly and true.

  Then spoke in courteous manner Kriemhild the fair and free,
  "In this our land, dear Brunhild, ever welcome be
  To me and to my mother and all by us allow'd
  For faithful friends and liegemen." Then each to th' other bow'd.

  Next to greet Dame Brunhild approach'd Dame Uta too;
  Oft she and oft her daughter their arms about her threw,
  And on her sweet mouth lavish'd many a loving kiss.
  Never was known a welcome so kind and frank as this.

  Soon as Brunhild's women were all come to the strand,
  Many a courtly warrior took by her lily hand
  A lady fair, and gently her mincing steps upstay'd,
  Now before Dame Brunhild stood many a noble maid.

  'T was long before the greeting had gone through all the list.
  On either part in plenty rosy mouths were kiss'd.
  Still the two fair princesses were standing side by side,
  A pair with love and rapture by longing warriors ey'd.

  What erst had been but rumour, was now made clear to sight,
  That nought had yet been witness'd so beautiful and bright
  As those two lovely damsels; 't was plain to every eye;
  None the slightest blemish in either form could spy.

  Whoever look'd on women with but the sight for guide,
  Such for her faultless beauty praised Guenther's, stately bride;
  But those whose thoughts went deeper, and div'd into the mind,
  Maintain'd that gentle Kriemhild left Brunhild far behind.

  Now met the dames and damsels in friendly converse free;
  Fair robes and fairer beauties were there in store to see;
  Many a silk pavilion and many a gorgeous tent
  The plain before the city fill'd in its whole extent.

  King Guenther's kinsmen ceas'd not to press to that fair show.
  And now was begg'd each princess from the sun to go
  Close by, with their attendants, where shade was overhead.
  By bold Burgundian warriors thither were they led.

  Then clomb to horse the heroes, and scour'd the sounding field;
  Many a joust was practis'd with order'd spear and shield;
  Right well were prov'd the champions, and o'er the trampled plain,
  As though the land were burning, the dust curl'd up amain.

  So all before the ladies display'd their skill and force,
  Nor doubt I that Sir Siegfried rode many a knightly course
  Before the rich pavilions, and ever as he sped,
  His thousand Nibelungers, a stately squadron, led.

  Then came the knight of Trony by the good king's command;
  In friendly wise he parted the jousters on the strand,
  For fear the dust, now thick'ning, the ladies might molest.
  Him with ready reverence obey'd each gentle guest.

  Then spake the noble Gernot, "Let each now rest his steed
  Till the air be cooler, 't will then be ours to lead
  These lovely ladies homeward e'en to the palace wide.
  So keep yourselves all ready till it please the king to ride."

  Thus ended was the tourney, and now the warriors went
  To join the dames and damsels beneath each lofty tent,
  And there in gentle converse their grace and favor sought;
  So flew the hours in pastime till of riding home they thought.

  Now as drew on the twilight, when cooler grew the air
  And the sun was setting, they would not linger there,
  But up rose lords and ladies to seek the castle high;
  Many a fair dame was cherish'd by many a love-lit eye.

  So on the fair they waited as from good knights is due.
  Then hardy squires, hot spurring before the nobles' view,
  After the country's custom rode for the prize of weed
  As far as to the palace, where sprung the king from steed.

  There too the proud queens parted, each taking thence her way.
  Dame Uta and her daughter with their handmaids gay
  Into a spacious chamber both together went.
  There might you see on all sides the sound of merriment.

  In hall the seats were order'd; the king would instant hie
  With all his guests to table; beside him you might spy
  His lovely bride, Queen Brunhild; her royal crown she wore
  There in King Guenther's country; so rich was none before.

  Seats were there plac'd unnumber'd with tables broad and good,
  As is to us reported, full heap'd with costly food.
  How little there was wanted that passes for the best!
  There with the king was seated full many a noble guest.

  The chamberlains of Guenther in ewers of ruddy gold
  Brought to the guests the water; should you be ever told
  That at a prince's table service was better done,
  'T were labor lost to say so, 't would be believ'd by none.

  Then, ere the lord of Rhineland touch'd the water bright,
  Up to him, as befitted, went Siegfried the good knight,
  And brought to his remembrance the promise made him there,
  Ere yet afar in Issland he look'd on Brunhild fair.

  Said he, "You must remember what swore to me your hand,
  That soon as Lady Brunhild were come into this land,
  To me you 'd give your sister, your oaths now where are they?
  On me throughout your journey much toil and travail lay."

  "Well did you to remind me," the noble king replied,
  "By what my hand has promis'd, I ever will abide,
  And in this thing to serve you will do my best, my all."
  Then sent he to beg Kriemhild to come into the hall.

  Straight to the hall came Kriemhild begirt with many a maid,
  When from the lofty staircase young Giselher thus said,
  "Send back your maidens, Kriemhild, this bus'ness is your own;
  On this the king, our brother, would speak with you alone."

  Then forward led was Kriemhild, as Guenther gave command,
  Where stood the king, and round him from many a prince's land
  Were noble knights unnumber'd; at once all silence kept;
  At that same instant Brunhild had just to table stepp'd.

  Thence came it she knew nothing of what was to be done.
  Then to his gather'd kinsmen spoke Dancrat's royal son,
  "Help me to move my sister Siegfried for lord to take."
  "Such match," they all made answer, "with honour she may make."

  Then spoke the king to Kriemhild, "Sister, I ask of thee
  From an oath to set me by thy kindness free.
  Thee to a knight I promis'd; if thou become his bride,
  Thou 'lt do the will of Guenther, and show thy love beside."

  Then spake the noble maiden, "Dearest brother mine,
  It needed not to ask me; whate'er command be thine,
  I'll willingly perform it; so now, for thy sake,
  Whom thou for husband giv'st me, fain I, my lord, will take."

  With love and eke with pleasure redden'd Siegfried's hue;
  At once to Lady Kriemhild he pledg'd his service true.
  They bade them stand together in the courtly circle bright,
  And ask'd her if for husband she took that lofty knight.

  In modest maiden fashion she blush'd a little space,
  But such was Siegfried's fortune and his earnest grace.
  That not altogether could she deny her hand.
  Then her for wife acknowledg'd the noble king of Netherland.

  He thus to her affianc'd, and to him the maid,
  Straight round the long-sought damsel in blushing grace array'd
  His arms with soft emotion th' enamour'd warrior threw,
  And kiss'd the high-born princess before that glitt'ring crew.
                  Lettsom's Translation, Tenth Adventure.

HOW MARGRAVE RUEDEGER WAS SLAIN.

The Margrave Ruedeger did not take part in the battle fought in Etzel's hall between the Burgundians
visiting the Hunnish court and the Huns, because of his friendship for the Burgundians, and
the betrothal of his daughter to Prince Giselher. Because of this, he was taunted by a Hun,
who said to the queen that although Ruedeger had accepted many favors from Etzel he did not
fight for him. When the Hun fell dead under Ruedeger's blow, Etzel reproached him for slaying
one of his followers when he had need of so many.

  Then came the fair Queen Kriemhild; she too had seen full well
  What from the hero's anger the luckless Hun befell;
  And she too mourn'd it deeply; with tears her eyes were wet.
  Thus spake she to Ruedeger, "How have we ever yet

  "Deserv'd that you, good Ruedeger, should make our anguish more?
  Now sure to me and Etzel you've promised o'er and o'er,
  That you both life and honour would risk to do us right.
  That you 're the flower of knighthood is own'd by every knight.

  "'T is true, right noble lady; in this we 're not at strife;
  I pledg'd, to do you service, my honour and my life,
  But my soul to hazard never did I vow.
  I brought the princes hither, and must not harm them now."

         *       *       *       *       *

  With that, to beg and pray him the king began as well;
  King and queen together both at his feet they fell.
  Then might you the good margrave have seen full ill bestead,
  And thus in bitterest anguish the faithful hero said:--

  "Woe's me the heaven-abandon'd, that I have liv'd to this!
  Farewell to all my honours! woe for my first amiss!
  My truth--my God-giv'n innocence--must they be both forgot?
  Woe's me, O God in heaven! that death relieves me not!"

  Then thus bespake him Kriemhild, "Right noble Ruedeger,
  Take pity on our anguish; thou see'st us kneeling here,
  The king and me before thee; both clasp thy honour'd knees.
  Sure never host yet feasted such fatal guests as these."

  With that the noble margrave thus to the queen 'gan say,
  "Sure must the life of Ruedeger for all the kindness pay,
  That you to me, my lady, and my lord the king have done.
  For this I'm doomed to perish, and that ere set of sun.

  "Full well I know, this morning my castles and my land
  Both will to you fall vacant by stroke of foeman's hand,
  And so my wife and daughter I to your grace commend,
  And all at Bechelaren, each trusty homeless friend."

         *       *       *       *       *

  So to war the margrave under helmet strode;
  Sharpest swords his meiny brandished as they rode;
  Each in hand, bright-flashing, held his shield before.
  That saw the dauntless minstrel, and seeing sorrow'd sore.

  Then too was by young Giselher his lady's father seen
  With helm laced as for battle. "What," thought he, "can he mean?
  But nought can mean the margrave but what is just and right."
  At the thought full joyous wax'd the youthful knight.

  "I know not what you trust in;" thus the stern minstrel spake;
  "Where saw you warriors ever for reconcilement's sake
  With helmets laced advancing, and naked swords in hand?
  On us will earn Sir Ruedeger his castles and his land."

  Scarcely the valiant minstrel his words had utter'd all,
  When the noble Ruedeger was close before the hall.
  His shield, well proved in battle, before his feet he laid,
  But neither proffered service, nor friendly greeting made.

  To those within he shouted, "Look not for succor hence;
  Ye valiant Nibelungers, now stand on your defence.
  I'd fain have been your comrade; your foe I now must be.
  We once were friends together; now from that bond I'm free."

  "Now God forbid," said Guenther, "that such a knight as you
  To the faith wherein we trusted, should ever prove untrue,
  And turn upon his comrades in such an hour as this.
  Ne'er can I think that Ruedeger can do so much amiss."

  "I can't go back," said Ruedeger, "the deadly die is cast;
  I must with you do battle; to that my word is pass'd.
  So each of you defend him as he loves his life.
  I must perform my promise; so wills King Etzel's wife."

         *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  "Tarry yet a little, right noble Ruedeger!
  I and my lords a moment would yet with you confer;
  Thereto hard need compels us, and danger gathering nigh;
  What boot were it to Etzel though here forlorn we die?

  "I'm now," pursued Sir Hagan, "beset with grievous care;
  The shield that Lady Gotelind gave me late to bear,
  Is hewn, and all-to broken by many a Hunnish brand.
  I brought it fair and friendly hither to Etzel's land.

  "Ah! that to me this favour heaven would be pleas'd to yield,
  That I might to defend me bear so well-prov'd a shield
  As that, right noble Ruedeger, before thee now display'd!
  No more should I in battle need then the hauberk's aid."

  "Fain with the same I'd serve thee to th' height of thy desire,
  But that I fear such proffer might waken Kriemhild's ire.
  Still, take it to thee, Hagan, and wield it well in hand.
  Ah! might'st thou bring it with thee to thy Burgundian land!"

  While thus with words so courteous so fair a gift he sped,
  The eyes of many a champion with scalding tears were red,
  'T was the last gift, that buckler, e'er given to comrade dear
  By the lord of Bechelaren, the blameless Ruedeger.

  However stern was Hagan, and of unyielding mood,
  Still at the gift he melted, which one so great and good
  Gave in his last few moments, e'en on the eve of fight,
  And with the stubborn warrior mourn'd many a noble knight.

  "Now God in heaven, good Ruedeger, thy recompenser be!
  Your like on earth, I'm certain, we never more shall see,
  Who gifts so good and gorgeous to homeless wanderers give.
  May God protect your virtue, that it may ever live!

  "Alas! this bloody bus'ness!" Sir Hagan then went on,
  "We have had to bear much sorrow, and more shall have anon.
  Must friend with friend do battle, nor heaven the conflict part?"
  The noble margrave answer'd, "That wounds my inmost heart."

  "Now for thy gift I'll quit thee, right noble Ruedeger!
  What e'er may chance between thee and my bold comrades here,
  My hand shall touch thee never amidst the heady fight,
  Not e'en if thou shouldst slaughter every Burgundian knight."

  For that to him bow'd courteous the blameless Ruedeger.
  Then all around were weeping for grief and doleful drear,
  Since none th' approaching mischief had hope to turn aside.
  The father of all virtue in that good margrave died.

         *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  What a fearful clatter of clashing blades there rang!
  From shields beneath the buffets how the plates they sprang,
  And precious stones unnumber'd rain'd down into the gore!
  They fought so fell and furious as man will never more.

  The lord of Bechelaren went slashing here and there,
  As one who well in battle knew how himself to bear.
  Well prov'd the noble Ruedeger in that day's bloody fight,
  That never handled weapon a more redoubted knight.

         *       *       *       *       *       *       *

  Loud o'er the din of battle stout Gernot shouted then,
  "How now, right noble Ruedeger? not one of all my men
  Thou 'lt leave me here unwounded; in sooth it grieves me sore
  To see my friends thus slaughter'd; bear it can I no more.

  "Now must thy gift too surely the giver harm to-day,
  Since of my friends so many thy strength has swept away.
  So turn about and face me, thou bold and high-born man!
  Thy goodly gift to merit, I'll do the best I can."

  Ere through the press the margrave could come Sir Gernot nigh,
  Full many a glittering mail-coat was stain'd a bloody die.
  Then those fame-greedy champions each fierce on th' other leapt,
  And deadly wounds at distance with wary ward they kept.

  So sharp were both their broadswords, resistless was their dint,
  Sudden the good Sir Ruedeger through th' helmet hard as flint
  So struck the noble Gernot, that forth the blood it broke;
  With death the stern Burgundian repaid the deadly stroke.

  He heaved the gift of Ruedeger with both his hands on high,
  And to the death though wounded, a stroke at him let fly
  Right through both shield and morion; deep was the gash and wide.
  At once the lord of Gotelind beneath the swordcut died.

  In sooth a gift so goodly was worse requited ne'er.
  Down dead dropp'd both together, Gernot and Ruedeger.
  Each slain by th' other's manhood, then prov'd, alas! too well.
  Thereat first Sir Hagan furious wax'd and fell.

  Then cried the knight of Trony, "Sure we with ills are cross'd;
  Their country and their people in both these chiefs have lost
  More than they'll e'er recover;--woe worth this fatal day!
  We have here the margrave's meiny, and they for all shall pay!"

  All struck at one another, none would a foeman spare.
  Full many a one, unwounded, down was smitten there,
  Who else might have 'scap'd harmless, but now, though whole and sound,
  In the thick press was trampled, or in the blood was drown'd.

  "Alas! my luckless brother who here in death lies low!
  How every hour I'm living brings some fresh tale of woe!
  And ever must I sorrow for the good margrave too.
  On both sides dire destruction and mortal ills we rue."

  Soon as the youthful Giselher beheld his brother dead,
  Who yet within were lingering by sudden doom were sped.
  Death, his pale meiny choosing, dealt each his dreary dole.
  Of those of Bechelaren 'scaped not one living soul.

  King Guenther and young Giselher, and fearless Hagan too,
  Dankwart as well as Folker, the noble knights and true,
  Went where they found together out-stretched the valiant twain.
  There wept th' assembled warriors in anguish o'er the slain.

  "Death fearfully despoils us," said youthful Giselher,
  "But now give over wailing, and haste to th' open air
  To cool our heated hauberks, faint as we are with strife.
  God, methinks, no longer, will here vouchsafe us life."

  This sitting, that reclining, was seen full many a knight;
  They took repose in quiet; around (a fearful sight!)
  Lay Ruedeger's dead comrades; all was hush'd and still;
  From that long dreary silence King Etzel augur'd ill.

  "Alas for this half friendship!" thus Kriemhild frowning spake,
  "If it were true and steadfast, Sir Ruedeger would take
  Vengeance wide and sweeping on yonder murderous band;
  Now back he'll bring them safely to their Burgundian land.

  "What boot our gifts, King Etzel? was it, my lord, for this
  We gave him all he asked us? The chief has done amiss.
  He, who should have reveng'd us, will now a treaty make."
  Thereto in answer Folker, the gallant minstrel, spake,

  "Not so the truth is, lady! the more the pity too!
  If one the lie might venture to give a dame like you,
  Most foully against the margrave you've lied, right noble queen!
  Sore trick'd in that same treaty he and his men have been.

  "With such good will the margrave his king's commands obey'd,
  That he and all his meiny dead on this floor are laid.
  Now look about you, Kriemhild! for servants seek anew;
  Well were you served by Ruedeger; he to the death was true.

  "The fact if still you're doubting, before your eyes we'll bring."
  'T was done e'en of set purpose her heart the more to wring.
  They brought the mangled margrave, where Etzel saw him well.
  Th' assembled knights of Hungary such utter anguish ne'er befell.

  When thus held high before them they saw the margrave dead,
  Sure by the choicest writer could ne'er be penn'd nor said
  The woeful burst of wailing from woman and eke from man,
  That from the heart's deep sorrow to strike all ears began.

  Above his weeping people King Etzel sorrow'd sore;
  His deep-voic'd wail resounded loud as the lion's roar
  In the night-shaded desert; the like did Kriemhild too;
  They mourn'd in heart for Ruedeger, the valiant and the true.

       Lettsom's Translation, Thirty-seventh Adventure.

THE SONG OF ROLAND.

The Song of Roland is one of the many mediaeval romances that celebrate the deeds of Charlemagne.

The oldest text now in existence was written about 1096, but the poem was current in other
forms long before this.

The author was a Norman, for the poem is written in the Norman dialect; but it is uncertain
whether the Turoldus or Theroulde named in the last line of the poem, "Thus endeth here the
geste Turoldus sang," was the author, a copyist, or a jongleur.

It is said that Taillefer, the minstrel of Normandy, sang the Song of Roland at the battle
of Hastings. "Taillefer, who right well sang, mounted on his rapid steed, went before them
singing of Charlemagne, and of Roland, and Olivier, and of the vassals who died in Roncesvalles."

The only text of the poem now in existence is one of the thirteenth century, preserved in the
Bodleian library at Oxford.

On the fifteenth of August, 778, in the valley of Roncesvalles, in the Pyrenees, Charlemagne's
rear guard, left under the command of Roland, Prefect of the Marches of Brittany, was attacked
and slaughtered by a large army of Gascons.

This incident forms the historical basis of the poem; but the imagination of the poet has made
of Charlemagne, then a young man, the old emperor, with "beard all blossom white," and transformed
his Gascon foes to Saracens.

The Song of Roland is written in the heroic pentameter; it is divided into "laisses," or stanzas,
of irregular length, and contains about three thousand seven hundred and eight lines. It is
written in the assonant, or vowel rhyme, that was universal among European nations in the early
stage of their civilization.

Each stanza ends with the word "aoi," for which no satisfactory translation has yet been offered,
although "away" and "it is done" have been suggested.

The author of the Song of Roland undertook, like Homer, to sing of one great event about which
all the interest of the poem centres; but unlike Homer, his poem is out of all proportion,
the long-drawn out revenge being in the nature of an anti-climax. The Song of Roland is a fair
exponent of the people among whom it originated. It contains no ornament; it is a straightforward
relation of facts; it lacks passion, and while it describes fearful slaughter, it never appeals
to the emotions. Though the French army shed many tears, and fell swooning to the ground at
the sight of the fearful slaughter at Roncesvalles, we are rather moved to smile at the violence
of their emotion than to weep over the dead, so little power has the poet to touch the springs
of feeling. However, there are passages in which the poem rises to sublimity, and which have
been pronounced Homeric by its admirers.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE SONG OF ROLAND. 283-323;

The Chanson de Roland, Westminster Review, 1873, c. 32-44;

M. Hayden's The Chansons de Geste, Dublin Review, 1894, cxiv. 346-357;

Charles Francis Keary's The Chansons de Geste: the Song of Roland, Fraser's Magazine, 1881,
civ. 777-789;

J. M. L.'s The Song of Roland, Macmillan's Magazine, 1862, vi. 486-501;

Agnes Lambert's The oldest epic of Christendom, Nineteenth Century, 1882, xi. 77-101;

Andrew Lang's The Song of Roland and the Iliad, National Review, 1892, xx. 195-205;

Legend of Roland, Encyclopaedia Britannica, vol. xx.;

Gustave Masson's The Chanson de Roland, Leisure Hour, 1877, xxvi. 618-620;

The Song of Roland, Catholic World, 1873 and 1874, xviii. 378-388, 488-500;

The Song of Roland, Harper's Monthly, 1882, lxiv. 505-515;

The Month, 1880, xl. 515-527; Temple Bar, 1886, lxxviii. 534-540.

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE SONG OF ROLAND.

The Song of Roland, as chanted before the Battle of Hastings by the Minstrel Taillefer, Tr.
from the French translation of Vitet by Mrs. Anne Caldwell Marsh, 1854;

The Song of Roland, Tr. into English verse by John O'Hagan, ed. 2, 1883;

La Chanson de Roland, Tr. from the seventh ed. of Leon Gautier, by Leonce Rabillon, 1885.

THE STORY OF THE SONG OF ROLAND.

For full seven years had Charlemagne tarried in Spain, and all the land lay conquered save
the city of Saragossa. There, in an orchard, upon a terrace paved with blue marble, sat its
king, Marsile, taking counsel with his lords.

"No army have I," said the king; "no people to array against the hosts of the great emperor.
Advise me, my lords, what I shall do to save ourselves from disgrace and shame."

The wily Blancandrin, wisest and greatest among the pagans, advanced before him. "Where might
cannot prevail, often craft gains the day. My lord, send gifts to mighty Carle. Drive forth
a long train of camels; heap many mules with gold; send chariots filled with precious gifts.
Advise him that on the day of Saint Michael's feast you will seek him at Aix, and there become
a Christian, and his vassal. Yea, even send hostages; my own son shall go, even though he lose
his head. Then will Carle depart for France. The day set by you will come, but he will hear
naught from us. The hostages' heads will fall. What of it? Better this than for us to lose
forever Spain the fair."

The king, pleased with the craft of Blancandrin, dismissed his council, and ordered ten of
his fiercest barons to seek Charlemagne at Cordova, bearing the olive-branch, and make the
offer suggested by Blancandrin.

Cordova, filled with rich spoils, had been taken, and its surviving inhabitants given the choice
of the sword or Christian baptism. Therefore the happy emperor sat at his ease in a wide-spreading
orchard. Around him stood Roland, Olivier, Samsun the duke, Anseis, Gefrei d'Anjou, and Gerier.
At least fifteen thousand French knights were diverting themselves with different games in
the beautiful orchard, where, under a pine-tree, the great King of France sat upon a golden
chair. His white hair and flowing white beard added majesty to his already majestic figure,
so that the olive-bearing messengers needed not to have great Carle pointed out to them.

The emperor heard the message of Marsile in silence, and dismissing the pagans for the night
to a pavilion, called together in council his wisest barons, Duke Ogier, Archbishop Turpin,
Gerier, Roland, Olivier, a thousand Franks, among them Ganelon, the step-father of Roland,
and laid before them the message of Marsile.

"Rich gifts he offers me, but he demands that I return to France; thither will he follow me,
and at Aix will become a Christian and a vassal. A fair promise, but what is in his heart I
cannot tell."

After a moment's silence Roland stood forth.

"Sire, have no faith in the words of Marsile. When have we found aught but treachery in the
Saracen? For seven years I have been winning victories for you here in Spain. Once before you
yielded to such a message as this, from this same Marsile, and lost, in consequence, the heads
of your Counts Bazan and Bazile. War on as you have begun. Besiege his city! subdue Saragossa!"

Then strode forth the angry Ganelon. "My king, this young hot-head is a fool; hearken not unto
him. Accept the offer of Marsile, and lose no more lives by the foolhardiness of one who cares
more for his own glory than for human life."

The voice of the others, among them Duke Naimes, Charlemagne's wisest counsellor and truest
vassal, was with Ganelon. The emperor stroked his white beard. "My lords, whom shall we send
to meet Marsile at Saragossa?"

"I will go," said Duke Naimes.

"Nay, I cannot spare you from my councils," replied the king.

"I am here!" cried Roland.

"Not you! You are too hot-headed to venture into the court of the enemy!" cried his friend
Olivier. "Let me go instead, sire!"

"Nay!" cried the king. "Silence! Not one of the twelve peers sets his foot in the kingdom of
the Moors."

"Then let my step-father go," suggested Roland. "No wiser man than he can be found."

"Come forward," said the king, as the Franks murmured assent, "and receive the staff and glove.
The Franks have chosen you."

Ganelon rose, wrathful, casting off his fur robe. His eyes were gray, his face fierce, his
form noble.

"This is Roland's work. I shall hate him forever, and Olivier, and the twelve peers, because
they love him. Ne'er shall I return; full well I know it. If e'er I do, it will be to wreak
vengeance on my enemy."

"Go!" said the king. "You have said enough!"

As Ganelon went forward, full of rage, to receive the king's glove, it fell ere he touched
it. "A bad omen!" exclaimed the French.

"Sirs, ye shall hear of this!" said Ganelon.

On his way to Saragossa with the legates of Marsile, Ganelon laid the impious plot that was
to result in the destruction of Roland and the peers. It saved his life at Saragossa, where
Marsile threatened to kill him on reading Charlemagne's message. He explained carefully to
the Saracens how the rear guard, left at Roncesvalles under the command of Roland and the twelve
peers, could be destroyed by the pagan forces before the knowledge of the battle could reach
Charlemagne, and that, with these props of his kingdom gone, the king's power would be so diminished
that Marsile could easily hold out against him. Then the traitor hastened back to Cordova,
laden with rich gifts.

When Ganelon rode back, the emperor was preparing to return to sweet France. "Barons," said
Carle, "whom shall I leave in charge of these deep defiles and narrow passes?"

"My step-son Roland is well able to take the command," said Ganelon; "he your nephew, whom
you prize most of all your knights."

Rage filled the hearts of both Roland and Carle; but the word was spoken, and Roland must remain.
With him remained the twelve peers, his friends, Olivier, his devoted comrade, the gallant
Archbishop Turpin, and twenty thousand valiant knights.

While Charlemagne's army toiled over the terrible gorges and high mountains into Gascony, the
emperor, ever grieving over the untimely death his nephew might meet in the defiles of Spain,
down came the pagans, who had been gathering on the high mountains and in the murky valleys,--emirs,
sons of noble counts were they, brave as the followers of Charlemagne.

When Olivier descried the pagan horde he at once exclaimed,--

"This is the work of Ganelon!"

"Hush!" replied Roland. "He is my step-father. Say no more."

Then Olivier, when from the hill he saw the one hundred thousand Saracens, their helmets bedecked
with gold, their shields shining in the sun, besought his friend to sound his horn, the olifant,
and summon the king to their aid.

"Never will I so disgrace myself!" exclaimed Roland. "Never shall sweet France be so dishonored.
One hundred thousand blows shall I give with my sword, my Durendal, and the Moors will fall
and die!"

When Olivier found his pleading vain, he mounted his steed and rode with Roland to the front
of the lines.

Long was the fight and terrible. If gallantry and strength sat with the twelve peers and their
followers, they were with their opponents as well. No sooner had Roland, or Olivier, or Turpin,
or Engelier cleft the body of a Moorish knight down to the saddle, than down fell a Christian,
his helmet broken, his hauberk torn by the lance of his dreaded foe. The nephew of Marsile
fell by the hand of Roland, who taunted him as he lay in death; Olivier struck down Marsile's
brother. "A noble stroke!" cried Roland.

"A baron's stroke!" exclaimed the archbishop, as Samsun pierced the Almazour with his lance
and he fell dead. Olivier spurred over the field, crushing the pagans and beating them down
with his broken lance.

"Comrade, where is thy sword, thy Halteclere?" called Roland to his friend.

"Here, but I lack time to draw it," replied the doughty Olivier.

More than a thousand blows struck Turpin; the pagans fell by hundreds and by thousands, and
over the field lay scattered those who would nevermore see sweet France.

Meanwhile, in France, hail fell and rain; the sky was vivid with lightning bolts. The earth
shook, and the land lay in darkness at noonday. None understood the portent. Alas! it was Nature's
grief at the death of Count Roland.

When Roland perceived that in spite of their mighty efforts the passes were still filled with
heathen knights, and the French ranks were fast thinning, he said to Olivier, "What think you
if we call the king?"

"Never!" exclaimed Olivier. "Better death now than shame!"

"If I blow, Carle will hear it now and return. I shall blow my olifant," cried Roland.

"When I begged you to blow it," said Olivier, "you refused, when you could have saved the lives
of all of us. You will show no valor if you blow it now."

"Great is the strife," said Roland. "I will blow that Carle may come."

"Then," said Olivier, "if I return to France, I pledge you my word my sister Aude shall never
be your wife. Your rashness has been the cause of our destruction. Now you shall die here,
and here ends our friendship."

Across the field the archbishop spurred to reconcile the friends. "Carle will come too late
to save our lives," said he, "but he will reach the field in time to preserve our mangled bodies
and wreak vengeance on our foes."

Roland put his horn to his lips and blew with such force that his temples burst and the crimson
blood poured forth from his mouth. Three times he sounded his horn, and each time the sound
brought anguish to the heart of Carle, who heard it, riding thirty leagues away. "Our men make
battle!" cried he; but this Ganelon hastened to deny, insisting that Roland was but hunting
and blowing the horn, taking sport among the peers. But Duke Naimes exclaimed, "Your nephew
is in sore distress. He who would deceive you is a traitor. Haste! Shout your war-cry, and
let us return to the battle-field. You yourself hear plainly his call for help!"

Commanding Ganelon to be seized and given to the scullions of his house to be kept for punishment
until his return, Carle ordered his men to arm and return to Roncesvalles, that they might,
if possible, save the lives of the noble peers. All the army wept aloud as they thought of
the doom of Roland. High were the mountains, deep the valleys, swift the rushing streams. The
French rode on, answering the sound of the olifant; the emperor rode, filled with grief and
rage; the barons spurred their horses, but in vain.

After Roland had sounded the horn he again grasped Durendal, and, mounted on his horse Veillantif,
scoured the battle-field, cutting down the heathen. But still their troops pressed him, and
when he saw the Ethiopian band led by the uncle of Marsile, he knew his doom had come. Olivier,
riding forth to meet the accursed band, received his death-wound from the Kalif, but lived
to cut his enemy down, and call Roland to him. Alas! sight had forsaken his eyes, and as he
sat on his steed he lifted his bright sword Halteclere, and struck Roland a fearful blow that
clove his crest but did not touch his head. "Was the blow meant for me, my comrade?" asked
Roland softly. "Nay, I can see no more. God pity me! Pardon me, my friend!" and as the two
embraced each other, Olivier fell dead.

Then, in the agony of his grief, Roland fainted, sitting firm in his saddle, and again recovering
consciousness, became aware of the terrible losses of the French. Only himself, the archbishop,
and the gallant Gaultier de l'Hum were left to defend the honor of the French. After Gaultier
fell, Roland, unassisted save by Turpin, who fought transfixed by four spear shafts, put the
enemy to flight. Feeling his death wounds, Roland besought Turpin to let him bring together
the bodies of his fallen comrades that they might receive the blessing of the archbishop. Weak
and trembling from loss of blood, Roland passed to and fro over the corpse-bestrewn field,
and gathered together his comrades: here, Gerin and Gerier, Berengier and Otun; there, Anseis,
Samsun, and Gerard de Roussillon, and last of all, his beloved Olivier, and placing them before
the knees of Turpin, he saw them receive his blessing.

In his great grief at the sight of the dead Olivier, Roland again fainted, and Turpin hastened
to a little brook near by for water to revive him. But the strain was too great for his already
weakened body, and, when Roland revived, it was to find the archbishop dead.

Then Roland, realizing that his hour, too, had come, sought out a place in which to die. Upon
a hill between two lofty trees, where was a marble terrace, he placed himself with his head
towards the enemy's country; and there a Saracen, who had feigned death to escape it, tried
to wrest from him his beloved Durendal.

Roland crushed the pagan's head with his olifant, but now he was troubled, for he feared that
his sword would fall into other than Christian hands. Ill could he bear to be parted from his
beloved sword. Its golden hilt contained rare relics,--a tooth of Saint Peter, blood, hair,
and bones of other saints, and by the strength of these holy relics it had conquered vast realms.
Ten and more mighty blows he struck with Durendal upon the hard rock of the terrace, in the
endeavor to break it; but it neither broke nor blunted. Then, counting over his great victories,
he placed it and the olifant beneath him, and committed his soul to the Father, who sent down
his angels to bear it to Paradise.

When the French army, led by Charlemagne, found the passes heaped high with the bodies of the
dead and no living soul to tell the story of the slaughter, they wept, and many fell swooning
to the earth. But the enraged Charlemagne, unwilling then to give time for mourning, spurred
on his soldiers, overtook the fleeing enemy, and drove them into the Ebro, so that those who
survived the sword, perished by the wave. Then, returning to the field of Roncesvalles, he
wept over his beloved Roland and the peers.

Great was his grief; handfuls of hair he tore from his head, and many times wished that his
soul were in Paradise, and his body beside that of Roland. He commanded that the hearts of
Roland, Olivier, and Turpin be taken from their bodies, wrapped, and inurned, and the bodies
borne home in chariots. The bodies of the others were gathered together in one tomb, and assoiled
and blessed by the priests who accompanied the army.

As Charlemagne prepared to start for France, he saw a new army approaching. The aged Emir Baligant,
from Babylon, who had long ago been summoned by Marsile, had just arrived in Saragossa, and
hastened forth to meet Charlemagne. The emir's army was countless, and Charlemagne's was weakened
by its great loss. But the thought of the slaughtered peers spurred on the French, and with
great Carle for their leader, they quickly put the pagans to flight.

The Franks pursued the enemy to Saragossa, where the wounded Marsile expired on hearing of
his defeat. The city was taken, its inhabitants either slain, or converted and baptized, and
Queen Bramimunde taken to France to be won to the true faith by gentler means.

When Charlemagne entered his stately palace at Aix, he was met by the fair lady Aude.

"Where is Roland, my betrothed?"

Carle wept, tearing his white beard.

"Thou askest of one who is no more. But in his place I will give thee my son. I can do no better."

"Nay, God forbid that I should live if Roland is dead;" and so saying, Aude, the beautiful,
fell dead at the feet of the emperor.

From all his lands Carle summoned men to Aix for the trial of Ganelon.

"Judge him according to the law, my barons," said the king. "He lost me twenty thousand of
my Franks. My nephew Roland, Olivier, my twelve peers, he sold."

"My king," pleaded Ganelon, "call it not treason. I was ever loyal to you. I thought not of
gain, but of revenge against my rebellious and haughty step-son."

The sentiment of many was with Ganelon, and Pinabel offered to fight for him against Thierri,
the champion of the king. Thirty knights of his kin gave themselves as legal sureties of his
pledge, and the combat began. Pinabel was conquered and slain, and Ganelon was condemned to
be torn to pieces by wild horses. His thirty sureties were also compelled to suffer death.

Ganelon was punished; Bramimunde was made a Christian, and the emperor thought at last to have
peace. But as night fell and he sought rest in his lofty room, Gabriel appeared to him.

"Summon thy hosts and march into Bire to succor King Vivien. The Christians look to thee for help."

The king wept and tore his beard. "So troubled is my life!" said he.

SELECTIONS FROM THE SONG OF ROLAND.

THE HORN.

The Rear Guard of the French army, left behind at Roncesvalles, under Roland, was attacked
by a great host of Moors. In the beginning of the battle Olivier besought Roland to recall
the emperor by blowing the olifant, whose sound could be heard for many leagues, but Roland
refused. But when he saw the overwhelming forces of the Moors, and the field strewn with the
corpses of the French, he resolved to blow the horn.

  Seeing so many warriors fall'n around,
  Rolland unto his comrade Olivier
  Spoke thus: "Companion fair and dear, for God
  Whose blessing rests on you, those vassals true
  And brave lie corses on the battle-field:
  Look! We must mourn for France so sweet and fair,
  From henceforth widowed of such valiant knights.
  Carle, 'would you were amongst us, King and friend!
  What can we do, say, brother Olivier,
  To bring him news of this sore strait of ours!"
  Olivier answers: "I know not; but this
  I know; for us is better death than shame."
                        Aoi.

  Rolland says: "I will blow mine olifant,
  And Carle will hear it from the pass. I pledge
  My word the French at once retrace their steps."
  Said Olivier: "This a great shame would be,
  One which to all your kindred would bequeathe
  A lifetime's stain. When this I asked of you,
  You answered nay, and would do naught. Well, now
  With my consent you shall not;--if you blow
  Your horn, of valor true you show no proof.
  Already, both your arms are drenched with blood."
  Responds the count: "These arms have nobly struck."
                        Aoi.

  "The strife is rude," Rolland says; "I will blow
  My horn, that Carle may hear."--Said Olivier:
  "This would not courage be. What I desired,
  Companion, you disdained. Were the king here,
  Safe would we be, but yon brave men are not
  To blame."--"By this my beard," said Olivier,
  "I swear, if ever I see again sweet Aude,
  My sister, in her arms you ne'er shall lie."
                        Aoi.

  Rolland asked Olivier--"Why show to me
  Your anger, friend?"--"Companion, yours the fault;
  True courage means not folly. Better far
  Is prudence than your valiant rage. Our French
  Their lives have lost, your rashness is the cause.
  And now our arms can never more give Carle
  Their service good. Had you believed your friend,
  Amongst us would he be, and ours the field,
  The King Marsile, a captive or a corse.
  Rolland, your valor brought ill fortune, nor
  Shall Carle the great e'er more our help receive,
  A man unequalled till God's judgment-day.
  Here shall you die, and dying, humble France, . . .
  This day our loyal friendship ends--ere falls
  The Vesper-eve, dolorously we part!"
                        Aoi.

  The archbishop heard their strife. In haste he drives
  Into his horse his spurs of purest gold,
  And quick beside them rides. Then chiding them,
  Says: "Sire Rolland, and you, Sire Olivier,
  In God's name be no feud between you two;
  No more your horn shall save us; nathless't were
  Far better Carle should come and soon avenge
  Our deaths. So joyous then these Spanish foes
  Would not return. But as our Franks alight,
  Find us, or slain or mangled on the field,
  They will our bodies on their chargers' backs
  Lift in their shrouds with grief and pity, all
  In tears, and bury us in holy ground:
  And neither wolves, nor swine, nor curs shall feed
  On us--" Replied Rolland: "Well have you said."

  The Count Rolland in his great anguish blows
  His olifant so mightily, with such
  Despairing agony, his mouth pours forth
  The crimson blood, and his swol'n temples burst.
  Yea, but so far the ringing blast resounds;
  Carle hears it, marching through the pass, Naimes harks,
  The French all listen with attentive ear.
  "That is Rolland's horn!" Carle cried, "which ne'er yet
  Was, save in battle, blown!" But Ganelon
  Replies: "No fight is there! you, sire, are old,
  Your hair and beard are all bestrewn with gray,
  And as a child your speech. Well do you know
  Rolland's great pride. 'Tis marvellous God bears
  With him so long. Already took he Noble
  Without your leave. The pagans left their walls
  And fought Rolland, your brave knight, in the field;
  With his good blade he slew them all, and then
  Washed all the plain with water, that no trace
  Of blood was left--yea, oftentimes he runs
  After a hare all day and blows his horn.
  Doubtless he takes his sport now with his peers;
  And who 'neath Heav'n would dare attack Rolland?
  None, as I deem. Nay, sire, ride on apace;
  Why do you halt? Still far is the Great Land."
                        Aoi.

  Rolland with bleeding mouth and temples burst,
  Still, in his anguish, blows his olifant;
  Carle hears it, and his Franks. The king exclaims:
  "That horn has a long breath!" Duke Naimes replies:
  "Rolland it is, and in a sore distress,
  Upon my faith a battle rages there!
  A traitor he who would deceive you now.
  To arms! Your war-cry shout, your kinsman save!
  Plainly enough you hear his call for help."
                        Aoi.

  Carle orders all the trumpeters to sound
  The march. The French alight. They arm themselves
  With helmets, hauberks and gold-hilted swords,
  Bright bucklers, long sharp spears, with pennons white
  And red and blue. The barons of the host
  Leap on their steeds, all spurring on; while through
  The pass they march, each to the other says:
  "Could we but reach Rolland before he dies,
  What deadly blows, with his, our swords would strike!"
  But what avails? Too late they will arrive.
                        Aoi.

  The ev'n is clear, the sun its radiant beams
  Reflects upon the marching legions, spears,
  Hauberks and helms, shields painted with bright flowers,
  Gold pennons all ablaze with glitt'ring hues.
  Burning with wrath the emperor rides on;
  The French with sad and angered looks. None there
  But weeps aloud. All tremble for Rolland.

         *       *       *       *       *

  The king commands Count Ganelon be seized
  And given to the scullions of his house.
  Their chief, named Begue, he calls and bids: "Guard well
  This man as one who all my kin betrayed."
  Him Begue received, and set upon the count
  One hundred of his kitchen comrades--best
  And worst; they pluck his beard on lip and cheek;
  Each deals him with his fist four blows, and falls
  On him with lash and stick; they chain his neck
  As they would chain a bear, and he is thrown
  For more dishonor on a sumpter mule,
  There guarded so until to Carle brought back.
                        Aoi.

  High are the mountains, gloomy, terrible,
  The valleys deep, and swift the rushing streams.
  In van, in rear, the brazen trumpets blow,
  Answering the olifant. With angry look
  Rides on the emp'ror; filled with wrath and grief,
  Follow the French, each sobbing, each in tears,
  Praying that God may guard Rolland, until
  They reach the battle-field. With him what blows
  Will they not strike! Alas? what boots it now?
  Too late they are and cannot come in time.
                        Aoi.

  Carle in great anger rides--his snow-white beard
  O'erspreads his breast-plate. Hard the barons spur,
  For never one but inwardly doth rage
  That he is far from their great chief, Rolland,
  Who combats now the Saracens of Spain:
  If wounded he, will one of his survive?
  O God! What knights those sixty left by him!
  Nor king nor captain better ever had....
                        Aoi.
                 Rabillon's Translation.

ROLAND'S DEATH.

When all the French lay dead upon the field except Roland and the Archbishop Turpin, Roland
gathered together the bodies of his dead comrades, the peers, that they might receive the archbishop's
blessing. He then fell fainting from grief, and aroused himself to find the archbishop dead also.

  Rolland now feels his death is drawing nigh:
  From both his ears the brain is oozing fast.
  For all his peers he prays that God may call
  Their souls to him; to the Angel Gabriel
  He recommends his spirit. In one hand
  He takes the olifant, that no reproach
  May rest upon him; in the other grasps
  Durendal, his good sword. Forward he goes,
  Far as an arblast sends a shaft, across
  A new-tilled ground and toward the land of Spain.
  Upon a hill, beneath two lofty trees,
  Four terraces of marble spread;--he falls
  Prone fainting on the green, for death draws near.
                        Aoi.

  High are the mounts, and lofty are the trees.
  Four terraces are there, of marble bright:
  There Count Rolland lies senseless on the grass.
  Him at this moment spies a Saracen
  Who lies among the corpses, feigning death,
  His face and body all besmeared with blood.
  Sudden he rises to his feet, and bounds
  Upon the baron. Handsome, brave, and strong
  He was, but from his pride sprang mortal rage.
  He seized the body of Rolland, and grasped
  His arms, exclaiming thus: "Here vanquished Carle's
  Great nephew lies! This sword to Araby
  I'll bear." He drew it; this aroused the count.
                        Aoi.

  Rolland perceived an alien hand would rob
  Him of his sword; his eyes he oped; one word
  He spoke: "I trow, not one of us art thou!"
  Then with his olifant from which he parts
  Never, he smites the golden studded helm,
  Crushing the steel, the head, the bones; both eyes
  Are from their sockets beaten out--o'erthrown
  Dead at the baron's feet he falls;--"O wretch,"
  He cries, "how durst thou, or for good or ill,
  Lay hands upon Rolland? Who hears of this
  Will call thee fool. Mine olifant is cleft,
  Its gems and gold all scattered by the blow."
                        Aoi.

  Now feels Rolland that death is near at hand
  And struggles up with all his force; his face
  Grows livid; Durendal, his naked sword,
  He holds; beside him rises a gray rock
  On which he strikes ten mighty blows through grief
  And rage. The steel but grinds; it breaks not, nor
  Is notched; then cried the count: "Saint Mary, help!
  O Durendal! Good sword! ill starred art thou!
  Though we two part, I care not less for thee.
  What victories together thou and I
  Have gained, what kingdoms conquered, which now holds
  White-bearded Carle! No coward's hand shall grasp
  Thy hilt: a valiant knight has borne thee long,
  Such as none shall e'er bear in France the Free!"
                        Aoi.

  Rolland smites hard the rock of Sardonix;
  The steel but grinds, it breaks not, nor grows blunt;
  Then seeing that he cannot break his sword,
  Thus to himself he mourns for Durendal:
  "O good my sword, how bright and pure! Against
  The sun what flashing light thy blade reflects!
  When Carle passed through the valley of Moriane,
  The God of Heaven by his Angel sent
  Command that he should give thee to a count,
  A valiant captain; it was then the great
  And gentle king did gird thee to my side.
  With thee I won for him Anjou--Bretaigne;
  For him with thee I won Poitou, le Maine
  And Normandie the free; I won Provence
  And Aquitaine, and Lumbardie, and all
  The Romanie; I won for him Baviere,
  All Flandre--Buguerie--all Puillanie,
  Costentinnoble which allegiance paid,
  And Saxonie submitted to his power;
  For him I won Escoce and Galle, Irlande,
  And Engleterre he made his royal seat;
  With thee I conquered all the lands and realms
  Which Carle, the hoary-bearded monarch, rules.
  Now for this sword I mourn. . . . Far better die
  Than in the hands of pagans let it fall!
  May God, Our Father, save sweet France this shame!"
                        Aoi.

  Upon the gray rock mightily he smites,
  Shattering it more than I can tell; the sword
  But grinds. It breaks not--nor receives a notch,
  And upward springs more dazzling in the air.
  When sees the Count Rolland his sword can never break,
  Softly within himself its fate he mourns:
  "O Durendal, how fair and holy thou!
  In thy gold-hilt are relics rare; a tooth
  Of great Saint Pierre--some blood of Saint Basile,
  A lock of hair of Monseigneur Saint Denis,
  A fragment of the robe of Sainte-Marie.
  It is not right that pagans should own thee;
  By Christian hand alone be held. Vast realms
  I shall have conquered once that now are ruled
  By Carle, the king with beard all blossom-white,
  And by them made great emperor and lord.
  May thou ne'er fall into a cowardly hand."
                        Aoi.

  The Count Rolland feels through his limbs the grasp
  Of death, and from his head ev'n to his heart
  A mortal chill descends. Unto a pine
  He hastens, and falls stretched upon the grass.
  Beneath him lie his sword and olifant,
  And toward the Heathen land he turns his head,
  That Carle and all his knightly host may say:
  "The gentle count a conqueror has died. . . ."
  Then asking pardon for his sins, or great
  Or small, he offers up his glove to God.
                        Aoi.

  The Count Rolland feels now his end approach.
  Against a pointed rock, and facing Spain,
  He lies. Three times he beats his breast, and says:
  "Mea culpa! Oh, my God, may through thy grace,
  Be pardoned all my sins, or great or small,
  Until this hour committed since my birth!"
  Then his right glove he offers up to God,
  And toward him angels from high Heav'n descend.
                        Aoi.

  Beneath a pine Rolland doth lie, and looks
  Toward Spain. He broods on many things of yore:
  On all the lands he conquered, on sweet France,
  On all his kinsmen, on great Carle his lord
  Who nurtured him;--he sighs, nor can restrain
  His tears, but cannot yet himself forget;
  Recalls his sins, and for the grace of God
  He prays: "Our Father, never yet untrue,
  Who Saint-Lazare raised from the dead, and saved
  Thy Daniel from the lions' claws,--oh, free
  My soul from peril, from my whole life's sins!"
                Rabillon's Translation

THE SHAH-NAMEH.

The monarchs of ancient Persia made several attempts to collect the historic annals of their
country, but both people and traditions were scattered by the Arabian conquest. The manuscript
annals were carried to Abyssinia, thence to India, and were taken back to Persia just when
the weakness of the conquerors was beginning to show itself. The various members of the Persian
line, who had declared themselves independent of their conquerors, determined to rouse the
patriotism of their countrymen by the recital of the stirring deeds of the warriors of old Persia.

The fame of Abul Kasin Mansur, born at Thus, in Khorasan, A. D. 920, reached Mahmoud of Ghaznin,
who was searching for a poet to re-cast the annals of Persia. He called the poet to his court,
and, on hearing him improvise, called him Firdusi (the paradisiacal). The poet was intrusted
with the preparation of the Shah-Nameh, or Epic of Kings, for every one thousand distichs of
which he was to receive a thousand pieces of gold. It had been the dream of the poet's life
to build a bridge and otherwise improve his native town. He therefore asked that the payment
be deferred until the completion of his work, that he might apply the entire sum to these improvements.
But when the poem was completed, after thirty years' labor, the king, instigated by the slanders
of the jealous prime minister, sent to the poet sixty thousand silver instead of gold dirhems.
The enraged poet threw the silver to his attendants and fled from the country, leaving behind
him an insulting poem to the sultan. He spent the remainder of his life at Mazinderan and Bagdad,
where he was received with honor, and in his old age returned to Thus to die. Tradition relates
that Mahmoud at last discovered the villainy of his minister, and sent the gold to Thus. But
the old poet was dead, and his daughter indignantly refused the money. Mahmoud then applied
the sum to the improvements of the town so long desired by Firdusi.

The Shah-Nameh is written in the pure old Persian, that Mohammed declared would be the language
of Paradise. In its sixty thousand couplets are related the deeds of the Persian kings from
the foundation of the world to the invasion by the Mohammedans; but it is of very little value
as a historical record, the facts it purports to relate being almost lost among the Oriental
exaggerations of the deeds of its heroes.

The only complete translation in a foreign language is the elaborate French translation of
Julius Mohl.

The Shah-Nameh is still popular in Persia, where it is said that even the camel drivers are
able to repeat long portions of it. Firdusi is sometimes called the Homer of the East, because
he describes rude heroic times and men, as did Homer; but he is also compared to Ariosto, because
of his wealth of imagery. His heroes are very different from those to whom we have been wont
to pay our allegiance; but they fight for the same principles and worship as lovely maids,
to judge from the hyperbole employed in their description. The condensation of the Shah-Nameh
reads like a dry chronicle; but in its entirety it reminds one of nothing so much as a gorgeous
Persian web, so light and varied, so brightened is it by its wealth of episode.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE SHAH-NAMEH.

Samuel Johnson's The Shah-Nameh, or Book of Kings (in his Oriental Religion, Persia, 1885,
pp. 711-782);

E. B. Cowell's Persian Literature, Firdusi (in Oxford Essays, 1885, pp. 164-166);

Elizabeth A. Reed's Persian Literature, Ancient and Modern, 1893, pp. 214-283.

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE SHAH-NAMEH.

The Shah-Nameh, Tr. and abridged in prose and verse with notes and illustrations, by James
Atkinson, 1832;

Abbreviated version taken from a Persian abridgment, half prose, half verse; The Epic of Kings,
Stories re-told from Firdusi, by Helen Zimmern, 1882.

THE STORY OF THE SHAH-NAMEH.

Kaiumers was the first King of Persia, and against him Ahriman, the evil, through jealousy
of his greatness, sent forth a mighty Deev to conquer him. By this Deev, Saiamuk, the son of
Kaiumers, was slain, and the king himself died of grief at the loss of his son.

Husheng, his grandson, who succeeded Kaiumers, was a great and wise king, who gave fire to
his people, taught them irrigation, instructed them how to till and sow, and gave names to
the beasts. His son and successor, Tahumers, taught his people the arts of spinning, weaving,
and writing, and when he died left his throne to his son Jemschid.

Jemschid was a mighty monarch, who divided men into classes, and the years into periods, and
builded mighty walls and cities; but his heart grew proud at the thought of his power, and
he was driven away from his land by his people, who called Zohak to the throne of Iran.

Zohak, who came from the deserts of Arabia, was a good and wise young man who had fallen into
the power of a Deev. This Deev, in the guise of a skillful servant, asked permission one day
to kiss his monarch between the shoulders, as a reward for an unusually fine bit of cookery.
From the spot he kissed sprang two black serpents, whose only nourishment was the brains of
the king's subjects.

The serpent king, as Zohak was now called, was much feared by his subjects, who saw their numbers
daily lessen by the demands of the serpents. But when the children of the blacksmith Kawah
were demanded as food for the serpents, the blacksmith defied Zohak, and raising his leathern
apron as a standard,--a banner ever since honored in Persia,--he called the people to him,
and set off in search of Feridoun, an heir of Jemschid. Under the young leader the oppressed
people defeated the tyrant, and placed Feridoun on the throne.

Feridoun had three sons, Irij, Tur, and Silim. Having tested their bravery, he divided the
kingdom among them, giving to Irij the kingdom of Iran. Although the other brothers had received
equal shares of the kingdom, they were enraged because Iran was not their portion, and when
their complaints to their father were not heeded, they slew their brother. Irij left a son,
a babe named Minuchihr, who was reared carefully by Feridoun. In time he avenged his father,
by defeating the armies of his uncles and slaying them both. Soon after this, Feridoun died,
intrusting his grandson to Saum, his favorite pehliva, or vassal, who ruled over Seistan.

Saum was a childless monarch, and when at last a son was born to him he was very happy until
he learned that while the child was perfect in every other way, it had the silver hair of an
old man. Fearing the talk of his enemies, Saum exposed the child on a mountain top to die.
There it was found by the Simurgh, a remarkable animal, part bird, part human, that, touched
by the cries of the helpless infant, carried him to her great nest of aloes and sandal-wood,
and reared him with her little ones.

Saum, who had lived to regret his foolish and wicked act, was told in a dream that his son
still lived, and was being cared for by the Simurgh. He accordingly sought the nest, and carried
his son away with great thanksgiving. The Simurgh parted tenderly with the little Zal, and
presented him with a feather from her wing, telling him that whenever he was in danger, he
had only to throw it on the fire and she would instantly come to his aid.

Saum first presented his son at the court of Minuchihr, and then took him home to Zaboulistan,
where he was carefully instructed in every art and science.

At one time, while his father was invading a neighboring province, Zal travelled over the kingdom
and stopped at the court of Mihrab, a tributary of Saum, who ruled at Kabul. Though a descendant
of the serpent king, Mihrab was good, just, and wise, and he received the young warrior with
hospitality. Zal had not been long in Kabul before he heard of the beauties of Rudabeh, the
daughter of Mihrab, and she, in turn, of the great exploits of Zal. By an artifice of the princess
they met and vowed to love one another forever, though they knew their love would meet with
opposition. Saum and Zal both pleaded Zal's cause before Minuchihr, who relented when he heard
from the astrologers that a good and mighty warrior would come of the union. Rudabeh's mother
won the consent of Mihrab, so that the young people were soon married with great pomp. To them
a son was born named Rustem, who, when one day old, was as large as a year-old child. When
three years old he could ride a horse, and at eight years was as powerful as any hero of the time.

Nauder succeeded the good Minuchihr, and under him Persia was defeated by the Turanians, and
Afrasiyab occupied the Persian throne. But Zal, whose father, Saum, had died, overthrew him
and placed Zew upon the throne. Zew's reign was short, and Garshasp, his son, succeeded him.
When he was threatened by the Turanians, his people went for aid to Zal, who, because he was
growing old, referred them to Rustem, yet of tender age. Rustem responded gladly, and his father
commanded that all the horses from Zaboulistan to Kabul be brought forth that his son might
select a steed therefrom. Every horse bent beneath his grasp until he came to the colt Rakush,
which responded to Rustem's voice, and suffered him to mount it. From that day to his death,
this steed was his faithful companion and preserver.

Garshasp was too weak to rule over the kingdom, and Zal despatched Rustem to Mt. Alberz, where
he had been told in a dream a youth dwelt called Kai-Kobad, descended from Feridoun. Kai-Kobad
welcomed Rustem, and the two, with the noblest of the kingdom, defeated the power of Turan.

After a reign of a hundred years, the wise Kai-Kobad died, and was succeeded by his son, the
foolish Kai-Kaus, who, not satisfied with the wealth and extent of his kingdom, determined
to conquer the kingdom of Mazinderan, ruled by the Deevs. Zal's remonstrances were of no avail:
the headstrong Kai-Kaus marched into Mazinderan, and, together with his whole army, was conquered,
imprisoned, and blinded by the power of the White Deev.

When the news of the monarch's misfortune came to Iran, Rustem immediately saddled Rakush,
and, choosing the shortest and most peril-beset route, set forth, unaccompanied, for Mazinderan.
If he survived the dangers that lurked by the way, he would reach Mazinderan in seven days.

While sleeping in a forest, after his first day's journey, he was saved from a fierce lion
by Rakush, who stood at his head.

On the second day, just as he believed himself perishing of thirst, he was saved by a sheep
that he followed to a fountain of water; on the third night, Rakush, whom he had angrily forbidden
to attack any animal without waking him, twice warned him of the approach of a dragon. The
first time the dragon disappeared when Rustem awoke, and he spoke severely to his faithful
horse. The second time he slew the dragon, and morning having dawned, proceeded through a desert,
where he was offered food and wine by a sorceress. Not recognizing her, and grateful for the
food, he offered her a cup of wine in the name of God, and she was immediately converted into
a black fiend, whom he slew.

He was next opposed by Aulad, whom he defeated, and promised to make ruler of Mazinderan if
he would guide him to the caves of the White Deev. A stony desert and a wide stream lay between
him and the demon; but the undaunted Rustem passed over them, and choosing the middle of the
day, at which time Aulad told him the Deevs slept, he slew the guards, entered the cavern,
and after a terrible struggle, overcame and slew the great Deev.

He then released Kai-Kaus and his army, and restored their sight by touching their eyes with
the blood from the Deev's heart.

Kai-Kaus, not satisfied with this adventure, committed many other follies, from which it taxed
his warrior sorely to rescue him.

Once he was imprisoned by the King of Hamaveran after he had espoused his daughter; again he
followed the advice of a wicked Deev, and tried to search the heavens in a flying-machine,
that descended and left him in a desert waste. It was only after this last humiliation that
he humbled himself, lay in the dust many days, and at last became worthy of the throne of his
fathers.

At one time Rustem was hunting near the borders of Turan, and, falling asleep, left Rakush
to graze in the forest, where he was espied by the men of Turan and at once captured. When
Rustem awoke he followed his steed by the traces of its hoofs, until he came to the city of
Samengan. The king received him kindly, and promised to restore the horse if it could be found.
While his messengers went in search of it, he feasted his guest, and led him for the night
to a perfumed couch.

In the middle of the night Rustem awoke, to see a beautiful young woman enter the room, accompanied
by a maid. She proved to be the princess, who had fallen in love with Rustem. She pleaded with
him to return her love, promising, if he did so, to restore his cherished horse. Rustem longed
for his steed; moreover, the maiden was irresistibly beautiful. He accordingly yielded to her
proposals, and the two were wedded the next day, the king having given his consent.

After tarrying some time in Samengan, Rustem was forced to return to Iran. Bidding his bride
an affectionate farewell, he presented her with a bracelet.

"If thou art given a daughter, place this amulet in her hair to guard her from harm. If a son,
bind it on his arm, that he may possess the valor of Nariman."

In the course of time, the princess bore a boy, who was like his father in beauty and boldness,
whom she christened Sohrab. But for fear that she would be deprived of him, she wrote to Rustem
that a daughter had been born to her. To her son she declared the secret of his birth, and
urged him to be like his father in all things; but she warned him not to disclose the secret,
for she feared that if it came to the ears of Afrasiyab, he would destroy him because of his
hatred of Rustem.

Sohrab, who had already cherished dreams of conquest, was elated at the knowledge of his parentage.
"Mother," exclaimed he, "I shall gather an army of Turks, conquer Iran, dethrone Kai-Kaus,
and place my father on the throne; then both of us will conquer Afrasiyab, and I will mount
the throne of Turan."

The mother, pleased with her son's valor, gave him for a horse a foal sprung from Rakush, and
fondly watched his preparations for war.

The wicked Afrasiyab well knew that Sohrab was the son of Rustem. He was also aware that it
was very dangerous to have two such mighty warriors alive, since if they became known to each
other, they would form an alliance. He planned, therefore, to aid Sohrab in the war, keeping
him in ignorance of his father, and to manage in some way to have the two meet in battle, that
one or both might be slain.

The armies met and the great battle began. Sohrab asked to have Rustem pointed out to him,
but the soldiers on his side were all instructed to keep him in ignorance. By some strange
mischance the two men whom his mother had sent to enlighten him, were both slain. Rustem was
moved at the sight of the brave young warrior, but remembering that Tahmineh's offspring was
a daughter, thought nothing more of the thrill he felt at sight of him. At last Sohrab and
Rustem met in single combat. Sohrab was moved with tenderness for his unknown opponent, and
besought him to tell him if he was Rustem, but Rustem declared that he was only a servant of
that chief. For three days they fought bitterly, and on the fourth day Rustem overthrew his
son. When Sohrab felt that the end had come he threatened his unknown opponent. "Whoever thou
art, know that I came not out for empty glory but to find my father, and that though I have
found him not, when he hears that thou hast slain his son he will search thee out and avenge
me, no matter where thou hidest thyself. For my father is the great Rustem."

Rustem fell down in agony when he heard his son's words, and realized that his guile had prevented
him from being made known the day before. He examined the onyx bracelet on Sohrab's arm; it
was the same he had given Tahmineh. Bethinking himself of a magic ointment possessed by Kai-Kaus,
he sent for it that he might heal his dying son; but the foolish king, jealous of his prowess,
refused to send it, and Sohrab expired in the arms of his father.

Rustem's heart was broken. He heaped up his armor, his tent, his trappings, his treasures,
and flung them into a great fire. The house of Zal was filled with mourning, and when the news
was conveyed to Samengan, he tore his garments, and his daughter grieved herself to death before
a year had passed away.

To Kai-Kaus and a wife of the race of Feridoun was born a son called Saiawush, who was beautiful,
noble, and virtuous. But his foolish father allowed himself to be prejudiced against the youth
by slanderous tongues, so that Saiawush fled from the court and sought shelter with Afrasiyab
in Turan. There he speedily became popular, and took unto himself for a wife the daughter of
Afrasiyab. But when he and Ferandis his wife built a beautiful city, the hatred and jealousy
of Gersiwaz was aroused, so that he lied to Afrasiyab and said that Saiawush was puffed up
with pride, and at last induced Afrasiyab to slay his son-in-law.

Saiawush had a son, Kai-Khosrau, who was saved by Piran, a kind-hearted nobleman, and given
into the care of a goatherd. When Afrasiyab learned of his existence he summoned him to his
presence, but the youth, instructed by Piran, assumed the manners of an imbecile, and was accordingly
freed by Afrasiyab, who feared no harm from him.

When the news of the death of Saiawush was conveyed to Iran there was great mourning, and war
was immediately declared against Turan. For seven years the contest was carried on, always
without success, and at the end of that time Gudarz dreamed that a son of Saiawush was living
called Kai-Khosrau, and that until he was sought out and placed at the head of the army, deliverance
could not come to Iran. Kai-Khosrau was discovered, and led the armies on to victory; and when
Kai-Kaus found that his grandson was not only a great warrior, skilled in magic, but also possessed
wisdom beyond his years, he resigned the throne and made Kai-Khosrau ruler over Iran.

Kai-Khosrau ruled many long years, in which time he brought peace and happiness to his kingdom,
avenged the murder of his father, and compassed the death of the wicked Afrasiyab. Then, fearing
that he might become puffed up with pride like Jemschid, he longed to depart from this world,
and prayed Ormuzd to take him to his bosom.

The king; after many prayers to Ormuzd, dreamed that his wish would be granted if he set the
affairs of his kingdom in order and appointed his successor. Rejoiced, he called his nobles
together, divided his treasure among them, and appointed his successor, Lohurasp, whom he commanded
to be the woof and warp of justice. Accompanied by a few of his faithful friends, he set out
on the long journey to the crest of the mountains. At his entreaties, some of his friends turned
back; those who stayed over night, in spite of his warnings, found on waking that they were
covered by a heavy fall of snow, and were soon frozen. Afterwards their bodies were found and
received a royal burial.

Lohurasp had a son Gushtasp who greatly desired to rule, and was a just monarch, when he succeeded
to the throne. Gushtasp, however, was jealous of his son, Isfendiyar, who was a great warrior.
When Gushtasp was about to be overcome by the forces of Turan, he promised Isfendiyar the throne,
if he would destroy the enemy; but when the hosts were scattered, and Isfendiyar reminded his
father of his promise, he was cast into a dungeon, there to remain until his services were
again needed. When he had again gained a victory, he was told that the throne should be his
when he had rescued his sisters from the brazen fortress of Arjasp, where they had been carried
and imprisoned.

On his way to this tower Isfendiyar met with as many terrible foes as Rustem had encountered
on his way to the White Deev, and as successfully overcame them. Wolves, lions, enchantresses,
and dragons barred the way to the impregnable fortress, which rose three farsangs high and
forty wide, and was constructed entirely of brass and iron. But Isfendiyar, assuming the guise
of a merchant and concealing his warriors in chests, won his way into the castle, gained the
favor of its inmates, and made them drunk with wine. This done, he freed his sisters, slew
the guards, and struck down Arjasp.

Instead of keeping his promise, Gushtasp hastened to set his son another task. Rustem was his
Pehliva, but it pleased him to send forth Isfendiyar against him, commanding him to bring home
the mighty warrior in chains. Isfendiyar pleaded in vain with his father. Then he explained
the situation to Rustem, and begged that he would accompany him home in peace to gratify his
father. Rustem refused to go in chains, so the two heroes reluctantly began the hardest battle
of their lives.

At the end of the first day, Rustem and Rakush were severely wounded, and on his return home
Rustem happened to think of the Simurgh. Called by the burning of the feather, the kind bird
healed the wounds of the hero and of Rakush, and instructed Rustem how to slay his foe. "Seek
thou the tamarisk tree, and make thereof an arrow. Aim at his eye, and there thou canst blind
and slay him."

Rustem followed the directions, and laid low the gallant youth. Isfendiyar died exclaiming,
"My father has slain me, not thou, Rustem. I die, the victim of my father's hate; do thou keep
for me and rear my son!"

Rustem, who had lived so long and accomplished such great deeds, died at last by the hand of
his half-brother. This brother, Shugdad, stirred up the king of Kabul, in whose court he was
reared, to slay Rustem because he exacted tribute from Kabul.

Rustem was called into Kabul by Shugdad, who claimed that the king mistreated him. When he
arrived, the matter was settled amicably, and the brothers set out for a hunt with the king.
The hunters were led to a spot where the false king had caused pits to be dug lined with sharp
weapons. Rustem, pleased with his kind reception and suspecting no harm, beat Rakush severely
when he paused and would go no further. Stung by the blows, the gallant horse sprang forward,
and fell into the pit. As he rose from this, he fell into another, until, clambering from the
seventh pit, he and Rustem fell swooning with pain.

"False brother!" cried Rustem; "what hast thou done? Was it for thee to slay thy father's son?
Exult now; but thou wilt yet suffer for this crime!" Then altering his tone, he said gently:
"But give me, I pray thee, my bow and arrows, that I may have it by my side to slay any wild
beast that may try to devour me."

Shugdad gave him the bow; and when he saw the gleam in Rustem's eyes, concealed himself behind
a tree. But the angry Rustem, grasping the bow with something of his former strength, sent
the arrow through tree and man, transfixing both. Then thanking his Creator that he had been
given the opportunity to slay his murderer, he breathed his last.

SELECTIONS FROM THE SHAH-NAMEH.

THE RAJA OF INDIA SENDS A CHESSBOARD TO NUSHIRVAN.

"This account of the game of chess, written by Ferdusi more than eight hundred years ago, is
curious as showing the antiquity of the game, its resemblance to it as now played, and the
tradition that it was invented in India, and came originally from that country."

  A Mubid related, how one day the king
  Suspended his crown over the ivory throne,
  All aloes-wood and ivory, and all ivory and aloes;
  Every pavilion a court, and every court a royal one;
  All the Hall of Audience crowned with soldiers;
  Every pavilion filled with Mubids and Wardens of the Marches,
  From Balkh, and Bokhara, and from every frontier--
  For the King of the world had received advices
  From his vigilant and active emissaries,
  That an Ambassador had arrived from a King of India,
  With the parasol, and elephants, and cavalry of Sind,
  And, accompanied by a thousand laden camels,
  Was on his way to visit the Great King.
  When the circumspect Monarch heard this news,
  Immediately he despatched an escort to receive him.
  And when the illustrious and dignified Ambassador
  Came into the presence of the Great King,
  According to the manner of the great, he pronounced a benediction,
  And uttered the praise of the Creator of the world.
  Then he scattered before him abundance of jewels,
  And presented the parasol, the elephants, and the ear-rings;
  The Indian parasol embroidered with gold,
  And inwoven with all kinds of precious stones.
  Then he opened the packages in the midst of the court,
  And displayed each one, article by article, before the King.
  Within the chest was much silver, and gold,
  And musk, and amber, and fresh wood of aloes,
  Of rubies, and diamonds, and Indian swords.
  Each Indian sword was beautifully damascened;
  Everything which is produced in Kanuj and Mai
  Hand and foot were busy to put in its place.
  They placed the whole together in front of the throne,
  And the Chief, the favored of wakeful Fortune,
  Surveyed all that the Raja had painstakingly collected,
  And then commanded that it should be sent to his treasury.
  Then the Ambassador presented, written on silk,
  The letter which the Raja had addressed to Nushirvan;
  And a chessboard, wrought with such exceeding labor,
  That the pains bestowed upon it might have emptied a treasury.
  And the Indian delivered a message from the Raja:
  "So long as the heavens revolve, may thou be established in thy place!
  All who have taken pains to excel in knowledge,
  Command to place this chessboard before them,
  And to exert their utmost ingenuity
  To discover the secret of this noble game.
  Let them learn the name of every piece.
  Its proper position, and what is its movement.
  Let them make out the foot-soldier of the army,
  The elephant, the rook, and the horseman,
  The march of the vizier and the procession of the King.
  If they discover the science of this noble game,
  They will have surpassed the most able in science.
  Then the tribute and taxes which the King hath demanded
  I will cheerfully send all to his court.
  But if the congregated sages, men of Iran,
  Should prove themselves completely at fault in this science,
  Then, since they are not strong enough to compete with us in knowledge,
  Neither should they desire taxes or tribute from this land and country:
  Rather ought we to receive tribute from you,
  Since knowledge hath a title beyond all else."

  Khosru gave heart and ear to the speaker,
  And impressed on his memory the words which he heard.
  They placed the chessboard before the King,
  Who gazed attentively at the pieces a considerable time.
  Half the pieces on the board were of brilliant ivory,
  The other half of finely imaged teak-wood.
  The nicely-observant King questioned him much
  About the figures of the pieces and the beautiful board.
  The Indian said in answer: "O thou great Monarch,
  All the modes and customs of war thou wilt see,
  When thou shalt have found out the way to the game;
  The plans, the marches, the array of the battle-field."
  He replied: "I shall require the space of seven days;
  On the eighth we will encounter thee with a glad mind."
  They furnished forthwith a pleasant apartment,
  And assigned it to the Ambassador as his dwelling.

  Then the Mubid and the skilful to point out the way
  Repaired with one purpose to the presence of the King.
  They placed the chessboard before them,
  And observed it attentively, time without measure.
  They sought out and tried every method,
  And played against one another in all possible ways.
  One spoke and questioned, and another listened,
  But no one succeeded in making out the game.
  They departed, each one with wrinkles on his brow;
  And Buzarchamahar went forthwith to the king.

  He perceived that he was ruffled and stern about this matter,
  And in its beginning foresaw an evil ending.
  Then he said to Khosru: "O Sovereign,
  Master of the world, vigilant, and worthy to command,
  I will reduce to practice this noble game;
  All my intelligence will I exert to point out the way."
  Then the king said: "This affair is thine affair;
  Go thou about it with a clear mind and a sound body,
  Otherwise the Raja of Kanuj would say,
  'He hath not one man who can search out the road,'
  And this would bring foul disgrace on my Mubids,
  On my court, on my throne, and on all my wise men."
  Then Buzarchmahar made them place the chessboard before him,
  And seated himself, full of thought, and expanded his countenance.
  He sought out various ways, and moved the pieces to the right hand and
    to the left,
  In order that he might discover the position of every piece.
  When after a whole day and a whole night, he had found out the game,
  He hurried from his own pavilion to that of the King,
  And exclaimed: "O King, whom Fortune crowneth with victory,
  At last I have made out these figures and this chessboard,
  By a happy chance, and by the favor of the Ruler of the world,
  The mystery of this game hath found its solution.
  Call before thee the Ambassador and all who care about it;
  But the King of kings ought to be the first to behold it.
  You would say at once without hesitation,
  It is the exact image of a battle-field."
  The King was right glad to hear the news;
  He pronounced him the Fortunate, and the bearer of good tidings.
  He commanded that the Mubids, and other counsellors,
  And all who were renowned for their wisdom should be assembled;
  And ordered that the Ambassador should be summoned to the Presence,
  And that he should be placed on a splendid throne.

  Then Buzarchamahar, addressing him, said:
  "O Mubid, bright in council as the sun,
  Tell us, what said the King about these pieces,
  So may intelligence be coupled with thee forever!"

  And this was his answer: "My Master, prosperous in his undertakings,
  When I was summoned and appeared before him,
  Said to me: 'These pieces of teak and ivory
  Place before the throne of him who weareth the crown,
  And say to him: Assemble thy Mubids and counsellors,
  And seat them, and place the pieces before them.
  If they succeed in making out the noble game,
  They will win applause and augment enjoyment:
  Then slaves and money and tribute and taxes,
  I will send to him as far as I have the means;
  For a monarch is to be esteemed for his wisdom,
  Not for his treasure, or his men, or his lofty throne.
  But if the King and his counsellors are not able to do all this
  And their minds are not bright enough to comprehend it,
  He ought not to desire from us tribute or treasure,
  And his wise soul, alas! must come to grief;
  And when he seeth our minds and genius to be subtler than theirs.
  Rather will he send them to us in greater abundance.'"

  Then Buzarchamahar brought the chess-men and board,
  And placed them before the throne of the watchful King,
  And said to the Mubids and counsellors:
  "O ye illustrious and pure-hearted sages,
  Give ear all of you to the words he hath uttered,
  And to the observations of his prudent chief."

  Then the knowing-man arranged a battle-field,
  Giving to the King the place in the centre;
  Right and left he drew up the army,
  Placing the foot-soldiers in front of the battle.
  A prudent vizier he stationed beside the King,
  To give him advice on the plan of the engagement;
  On each side he set the elephants of war [our bishops],
  To support one another in the midst of the combat.
  Further on he assigned their position to the war-steeds [our knights],
  Placing upon each a horseman eager for battle.
  Lastly, right and left, at the extremities of the field,
  He stationed the heroes [the rooks] as rivals to each other.
  When Buzarchamahar had thus drawn up the army,
  The whole assembly was lost in astonishment;
  But the Indian Ambassador was exceedingly grieved,
  And stood motionless at the sagacity of that Fortune-favored man;
  Stupefied with amazement, he looked upon him as a magician,
  And his whole soul was absorbed in his reflections.
  "For never hath he seen," he said, "a chessboard before,
  Nor ever hath he heard about it from the experienced men of India.
  I have told him nothing of the action of these pieces,
  Not a word have I said about this arrangement and purpose.
  How then hath the revelation come down upon him?
  No one in the world will ever take his place!"

  And Khosru was so proud of Buzarchamahar,
  Thou mightest say that he was looking Fortune in the face.
  He was gladdened at his heart, and loaded him with caresses,
  And ordered him a more than ordinary dress of honor,
  And commanded him to be given a royal cup
  Filled to the brim with princely jewels,
  And a quantity of money, and a charger and a saddle,
  And dismissed him from the Presence overwhelmed with praises.
         Robinson's Translation.

ZAL AND RUDABEH.

"Zal, recovered from the care of the Simurgh and arrived at manhood, is sent to govern the
frontier province of Zabul; the adjoining province of Kabul, though tributary to the Persian
emperor, being governed by its own king, called Mihrab. This episode commences with a visit
which Mihrab pays to Zal, who receives him with distinguished honor, entertains him at a sumptuous
banquet, and they separate with mutual respect."

  Then a chief of the great ones around him
  Said: "O thou, the hero of the world,
  This Mihrab hath a daughter behind the veil,
  Whose face is more resplendent than the sun;
  From head to foot pure as ivory,
  With a cheek like the spring, and in stature like the teak-tree.
  Upon her silver shoulders descend two musky tresses,
  Which, like nooses, fetter the captive;
  Her lip is like the pomegranate, and her cheek like its flower;
  Her eyes resemble the narcissus in the garden;
  Her eyelashes have borrowed the blackness of the raven;
  Her eyebrows are arched like a fringed bow.
  Wouldst thou behold the mild radiance of the moon? Look upon her
    countenance!
  Wouldst thou inhale delightful odors? She is all fragrance!
  She is altogether a paradise of sweets,
  Decked with all grace, all music, all thou canst desire!
  She would be fitting for thee, O warrior of the world;
  She is as the heavens above to such as we are."

  When Zal heard this description,
  His love leaped to the lovely maiden:
  His heart boiled over with the heat of passion,
  So that understanding and rest departed from him.
  Night came, but he sat groaning, and buried in thought,
  And a prey to sorrow for the not-yet-seen.

On returning from a second visit, Mihrab describes Zal to his wife and his daughter Rudabeh.

  "O beautiful silver-bosomed cypress,
  In the wide world not one of the heroes
  Will come up to the measure of Zal!
  In the pictured palace men will never behold the image
  Of a warrior so strong, or so firm in the saddle.
  He hath the heart of a lion, the power of an elephant,
  And the strength of his arm is as the rush of the Nile.
  When he sitteth on the throne, he scattereth gold before him;
  In the battle, the heads of his enemies.
  His cheek is as ruddy as the flower of the arghavan;
  Young in years, all alive, and the favorite of fortune;
  And though his hair is white as though with age,
  Yet in his bravery he could tear to pieces the water-serpent.

  "He rageth in the conflict with the fury of the crocodile,
  He fighteth in the saddle like a sharp-fanged dragon.
  In his wrath he staineth the earth with blood,
  As he wieldeth his bright scimitar around him.
  And though his hair is as white as is a fawn's,
  In vain would the fault-finder seek another defect!
  Nay, the whiteness of his hair even becometh him;
  Thou wouldst say that he is born to beguile all hearts!"

  When Rudabeh heard this description,
  Her heart was set on fire, and her cheek crimsoned like the pomegranate.
  Her whole soul was filled with the love of Zal,
  And food, and peace, and quietude were driven far from her.

After a time Rudabeh resolves to reveal her passion to her attendants.

  Then she said to her prudent slaves:
  "I will discover what I have hitherto concealed;
  Ye are each of you the depositaries of my secrets,
  My attendants, and the partners of my griefs.
  I am agitated with love like the raging ocean,
  Whose billows are heaved to the sky.
  My once bright heart is filled with the love of Zal;
  My sleep is broken with thoughts of him.
  My soul is perpetually filled with my passion;
  Night and day my thoughts dwell upon his countenance.

  "Not one except yourselves knoweth my secret;
  Ye, my affectionate and faithful servants,
  What remedy can ye now devise for my ease?
  What will ye do for me? What promise will ye give me?
  Some remedy ye must devise,
  To free my heart and soul from this unhappiness."

  Astonishment seized the slaves,
  That dishonor should come nigh the daughter of kings.
  In the anxiety of their hearts they started from their seats,
  And all gave answer with one voice:
  "O crown of the ladies of the earth!
  Maiden pre-eminent amongst the pre-eminent!
  Whose praise is spread abroad from Hindustan to China;
  The resplendent ring in the circle of the harem;
  Whose stature surpasseth every cypress in the garden;
  Whose cheek rivalleth the lustre of the Pleiades;
  Whose picture is sent by the ruler of Kanuj
  Even to the distant monarchs of the West--
  Have you ceased to be modest in your own eyes?
  Have you lost all reverence for your father,
  That whom his own parent cast from his bosom,
  Him will you receive into yours?
  A man who was nurtured by a bird in the mountains!
  A man who was a by-word amongst the people!
  You--with your roseate countenance and musky tresses--
  Seek a man whose hair is already white with age!
  You--who have filled the world with admiration,
  Whose portrait hangeth in every palace,
  And whose beauty, and ringlets, and stature are such
  That you might draw down a husband from the skies!"

To this remonstrance she makes the following indignant answer:

  When Rudabeh heard their reply,
  Her heart blazed up like fire before the wind.
  She raised her voice in anger against them,
  Her face flushed, but she cast down her eyes.
  After a time, grief and anger mingled in her countenance,
  And knitting her brows with passion, she exclaimed:
  "O unadvised and worthless counsellors,
  It was not becoming in me to ask your advice!
  Were my eye dazzled by a star,
  How could it rejoice to gaze even upon the moon?
  He who is formed of worthless clay will not regard the rose,
  Although the rose is in nature more estimable than clay!
  I wish not for Caesar, nor Emperor of China,
  Nor for any one of the tiara-crowned monarchs of Iran;
  The son of Saum, Zal, alone is my equal,
  With his lion-like limbs, and arms, and shoulders.
  You may call him, as you please, an old man, or a young;
  To me, he is in the room of heart and of soul.
  Except him never shall any one have a place in my heart;
  Mention not to me any one except him.
  Him hath my love chosen unseen,
  Yea, hath chosen him only from description.
  For him is my affection, not for face or hair;
  And I have sought his love in the way of honor."

The slaves speak.

  "May hundreds of thousands such as we are be a sacrifice for thee;
  May the wisdom of the creation be thy worthy portion;
  May thy dark narcissus-eye be ever full of modesty;
  May thy cheek be ever tinged with bashfulness!
  If it be necessary to learn the art of the magician,
  To sew up the eyes with the bands of enchantment,
  We will fly till we surpass the enchanter's bird,
  We will run like the deer in search of a remedy.
  Perchance we may draw the King nigh unto his moon,
  And place him securely at thy side."

  The vermil lip of Rudabeh was filled with smiles;
  She turned her saffron-tinted countenance toward the slave, and said:
  "If thou shalt bring this matter to a happy issue,
  Thou hast planted for thyself a stately and fruitful tree,
  Which every day shall bear rubies for its fruit,
  And shall pour that fruit into thy lap."

The slaves arrange an interview between the lovers.

  Then said the elegant cypress-formed lady to her maidens:
  "Other than this were once your words and your counsel!
  Is this then the Zal, the nursling of a bird?
  This the old man, white-haired and withered?
  Now his cheek is ruddy as the flower of the arghavan;
  His stature is tall, his face beautiful, his presence lordly!
  Ye have exalted my charms before him;
  Ye have spoken and made me a bargain!"
  She said, and her lips were full of smiles,
  But her cheek crimsoned like the bloom of pomegranate.

The interview takes place in a private pavilion of the princess.

  When from a distance the son of the valiant Saum
  Became visible to the illustrious maiden,
  She opened her gem-like lips, and exclaimed:
  "Welcome, thou brave and happy youth!
  The blessing of the Creator of the world be upon thee;
  On him who is the father of a son like thee!
  May destiny ever favor thy wishes!
  May the vault of heaven be the ground thou walkest on!
  The dark night is turned into day by thy countenance;
  The world is soul-enlivened by the fragrance of thy presence!
  Thou hast travelled hither on foot from thy palace;
  Thou hast pained, to behold me, thy royal footsteps!"

  When the hero heard the voice from the battlement,
  He looked up and beheld a face resplendent as the sun,
  Irradiating the terrace like a flashing jewel,
  And brightening the ground like a naming ruby.

  Then he replied: "O thou who sheddest the mild radiance of the moon,
  The blessing of Heaven, and mine, be upon thee!
  How many nights hath cold Arcturus beholden me,
  Uttering my cry to God, the Pure,
  And beseeching the Lord of the universe,
  That he would vouchsafe to unveil thy countenance before me!
  Now I am made joyful in hearing thy voice,
  In listening to thy rich and gracious accents.
  But seek, I pray thee, some way to thy presence;
  For what converse can we hold, I on the ground, and thou on the
    terrace?"

  The Peri-faced maiden heard the words of the hero;
  Quickly she unbound her auburn locks,
  Coil upon coil, and serpent upon serpent;
  And she stooped and dropped down the tresses from the battlement,
  And cried: "O hero, child of heroes,
  Take now these tresses, they belong to thee,
  And I have cherished them that they might prove an aid to my beloved."

  And Zal gazed upward at the lovely maiden,
  And stood amazed at the beauty of her hair and of her countenance;
  He covered the musky ringlets with his kisses,
  And his bride heard the kisses from above.
  Then he exclaimed: "That would not be right--
  May the bright sun never shine on such a day!
  It were to lay my hand on the life of one already distracted;
  It were to plunge the arrow-point into my own wounded bosom."
  Then he took his noose from his boy, and made a running knot,
  And threw it, and caught it on the battlement,
  And held his breath, and at one bound
  Sprang from the ground, and reached the summit.

  As soon as the hero stood upon the terrace,
  The Peri-faced maiden ran to greet him,
  And took the hand of the hero in her own,
  And they went like those who are overcome with wine.

  Then he descended from the lofty gallery,
  His hand in the hand of the tall princess,
  And came to the door of the gold-painted pavilion,
  And entered that royal assembly,
  Which blazed with light like the bowers of Paradise;
  And the slaves stood like houris before them:
  And Zal gazed in astonishment
  On her face, and her hair, and her stately form, and on all that
    splendor.

  And Zal was seated in royal pomp
  Opposite that mildly-radiant beauty;
  And Rudabeh could not rest from looking towards him,
  And gazing upon him with all her eyes;
  On that arm, and shoulder, and that splendid figure,
  On the brightness of that soul-enlightening countenance;
  So that the more and more she looked
  The more and more was her heart inflamed.

  Then he kissed and embraced her, renewing his vows--
  Can the lion help pursuing the wild ass?--
  And said: "O sweet and graceful silver-bosomed maiden,
  It may not be, that, both of noble lineage,
  We should do aught unbecoming our birth;
  For from Saum Nariman I received an admonition.
  To do no unworthy deed, lest evil should come of it;
  For better is the seemly than the unseemly,
  That which is lawful than that which is forbidden.
  And I fear that Manuchahar, when he shall hear of this affair,
  Will not be inclined to give it his approval;
  I fear, too, that Saum will exclaim against it,
  And will boil over with passion, and lay his hand upon me.
  Yet, though soul and body are precious to all men,
  Life will I resign, and clothe myself with a shroud--
  And this I swear by the righteous God--
  Ere I will break the faith which I have pledged thee.
  I will bow myself before Him, and offer my adoration,
  And supplicate Him as those who worship Him in truth,
  That He will cleanse the heart of Saum, king of the earth,
  From opposition, and rage, and rancor.
  Perhaps the Creator of the world may listen to my prayer,
  And thou mayest yet be publicly proclaimed my wife."

  And Rudabeh said: "And I also, in the presence of the righteous God,
  Take the same pledge, and swear to thee my faith;
  And He who created the world be witness to my words,
  That no one but the hero of the world,
  The throned, the crowned, the far-famed Zal,
  Will I ever permit to be sovereign over me."

  So their love every moment became greater;
  Prudence was afar, and passion was predominant,
  Till the gray dawn began to show itself,
  And the drum to be heard from the royal pavilion.
  Then Zal bade adieu to the fair one;
  His soul was darkened, and his bosom on fire,
  And the eyes of both were filled with tears;
  And they lifted up their voices against the sun:
  "O glory of the universe, why come so quick?
  Couldst thou not wait one little moment"

  Then Zal cast his noose on a pinnacle,
  And descended from those happy battlements,
  As the sun was rising redly above the mountains,
  And the bands of warriors were gathering in their ranks.
        Robinson's Translation.

THE POEM OF THE CID.

Rodrigo Ruy Diaz, El Cid Campeador, was born near Burgos, in Spain, about 1040. The name Cid
was given him by the Moors, and means lord. Campeador means champion.

Ruy Diaz was the trusty lord of Sancho, King of Castile, who at his death divided his kingdom
among his children. He then espoused the cause of the eldest son, Sancho, and assisted him
in wresting their portion of the kingdom from his brothers Garcia and Alfonso. Sancho having
been treacherously slain while besieging his sister Urraca's town of Zamora, the Cid attached
himself to Alfonso, humiliating him, however, by making him and his chief lords swear that
they had had no hand in Sancho's death. For this, Alfonso revenged himself by exiling the Cid
on the slightest pretexts, recalling him only when his services were needed in the defence
of the country.

This much, and the Cid's victories over the Moors, his occupation of Valencia, and his army's
departure therefrom in 1102, led by his corpse seated on horseback, "clothed in his habit as
he lived", are historical facts.

A great mass of romances, among them the story of his slaying Count Don Gomez because he had
insulted his father, Diego Laynez; of Don Gomez's daughter Ximena wooing and wedding him; of
his assisting the leper and having his future success foretold by him, and of his embalmed
body sitting many years in the cathedral at Toledo, are related in the "Chronicle of the Cid"
and the "Ballads."

The Poem of the Cid narrates only a portion of his career, and "if it had been named," says
Ormsby, "would have been called 'The Triumph of the Cid.'"

The Poem of the Cid was written about 1200 A. D. Its authorship is unknown.

It contains three thousand seven hundred and forty-five lines, and is divided into two cantares.
The versification is careless; when rhyme hampered the poet he dropped it, and used instead
the assonant rhyme.

The Poem of the Cid is of peculiar interest because it belongs to the very dawn of our modern
literature, and because its hero was evidently a real personage, a portion of whose history
was recorded in this epic not long after the events took place. The Cid is one of the most
simple and natural of the epic heroes; he has all a man's weaknesses, and it is difficult to
repress a smile at the perfectly natural manner in which, while he slaughters enough Moors
to secure himself a place in the heavenly kingdom, he takes good care to lay up gold for the
enjoyment of life on earth. The poem is told with the greatest simplicity, naturalness, and
directness, as well as with much poetic fire.

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE CID.

Robert Southey's Chronicle of the Cid. . . . Appendix contains Poetry of the Cid by J. H. Frere,
1808, new ed., 1845;

Matthew Arnold's Poem of the Cid, MacMillan, 1871, vol. xxiv., pp. 471-485;

George Dennio's The Cid: A short Chronicle founded on the early Poetry of Spain, 1845;

Butler Clarke's The Cid (in his Spanish Literature, 1893, pp. 46-53); E. E. Hale and Susan
Hale's The Cid (in their Story of Spain, 1893, pp. 248-261);

Stanley Lane Poole's The Cid (in his Story of the Moors in Spain, 1891, pp. 191-213);

Sismondi's Poem of the Cid (in his Literature of the South of Europe, 1884, vol. ii., pp. 95-140);

George Ticknor's Poem of the Cid (in his History of Spanish Literature, ed. 6, 1893, vol. i.,
pp. 12-26);

W. T. Dobson's Classic Poets, (1879, pp. 35-138);

J. G. von Herder's Der Cid, nach spanischen Romanzen besungen (in his works, 1852, vol. xiv.),
translated.

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE POEM OF THE CID.

The Poem of the Cid, Tr. by John Ormsby, 1879;

Translations from the Poem of the Cid by John Hookam Frere (in his works, 1872, vol. ii., p. 409);

Ballads of the Cid, Tr. by Lewis Gerard, 1883;

Ancient Spanish Ballads, Tr. by John Gibson Lockhart, 1823.

THE STORY OF THE POEM OF THE CID.

Tears stood in the eyes of the Cid as he looked at his pillaged castle. The coffers were empty,
even the falcons were gone from their perches. "Cruel wrong do I suffer from mine enemy!" he
exclaimed as they rode into Burgos. "Alvar Fanez, of a truth we are banished men."

From the windows of Burgos town the burghers and their dames looked down with tearful eyes
upon the Cid and his sixty lances. "Would that his lord were worthy of him," said they.

He rode up to the gates of his house in Burgos; the king's seal was upon them. "My lord," cried
a damsel from an upper casement, "thy goods are forfeited to the king, and he has forbidden
that we open door or shelter thee upon pain of forfeiture of our goods, yea, even of our sight!"

Little hope then had the Cid of mercy from King Alfonso; and sooner than bring suffering on
his beloved people of Burgos he betook himself without the city and sat him down to think of
what to do. "Martin Antolinez," said he, "I have no money with which to pay my troops. Thou
must help me to get it, and if I live I will repay thee double."

Then the two together fashioned two stout chests covered with red leather and studded with
gilt nails, and these they filled with sand. Then Martin Antolinez without delay sought out
the money lenders, Rachel and Vidas, and bargained with them to lend the Cid six hundred marks,
and take in pawn for them the two chests filled with treasure that he dared not at that time
take away with him. For a year they were to keep the chests and pledge themselves not to look
in them. Glad were the hearts of the money lenders as they lifted the heavy chests, and happy
was the Cid when he saw the six hundred marks counted out before him.

Seeking the monastery of San Pedro de Cardena, the Cid embraced his wife Ximena and his two
daughters, and left them in the protection of the abbot, to whom he promised recompense. Hard
was the pain of parting as when the finger nail is torn away from the flesh, but a banished
man has no choice. And as they passed the night at Higeruela a sweet vision promising success
comforted the Cid in his slumbers; and many from Castile, who heard of the departure of the
hero, sought his banners to better their fortune.

Next day the Cid and his men took Castejon and sold the spoil to the Moors of Hita and Guadalajara,
and then my Cid passed on and planted himself upon a lofty and strong hill opposite Alcocer,
and levied tribute upon the neighboring peoples. When he had so besieged Alcocer for fifteen
weeks he took it by stratagem, and Pero Bermuez, the slow of speech, planted his standard on
the highest part. When the King of Valencia heard of this, he determined to capture my Cid,
and accordingly sent three thousand Moors to lay siege to Alcocer.

When the water was cut off and bread became scarce, the six hundred Spanish men, acting upon
the advice of Minaya, took the field against the three thousand Moors; and such was the valor
of him that in a good hour was born, and of his standard bearer, Pero Bermuez, and of the good
Minaya, that the Moors fell to the ground three hundred at a time, their shields shivered,
their mail riven, their white pennons red with blood.

"Thanks be to God for victory!" said the Cid. In the Moorish king's camp was found great spoil,--shields,
arms, and horses. Greatly the Christians rejoiced, for to them fell much spoil, and but fifteen
of their men were missing. Even to the Moors my Cid gave some of his spoil, and from his share
of one hundred horses he sent by Minaya thirty, saddled and bridled, with as many swords hung
at the saddle bows, to King Alfonso. Also he sent by him a wallet of gold and silver for his
wife and daughters, and to pay for a thousand Masses at Burgos.

Alfonso was well pleased to receive this token. "It is too soon to take him into favor, but
I will accept his present, and I am glad he won the victory. Minaya, I pardon thee; go to the
Cid and say that I will permit any valiant man who so desires to follow him."

Upon the hill now called the hill of the Cid, he who girt on the sword in a good hour, took
up his abode and levied tribute on the people for fifteen weeks. But when he saw that Minaya's
return was delayed, he went even unto Saragossa, levying tribute and doing much damage, insomuch
that the Count of Barcelona, Raymond de Berenger, was provoked into making an assault upon
him in the Pine Wood of Bivar, where he was ingloriously defeated and taken prisoner. The count
was the more shamed at this because my Cid had sent him a friendly message, saying that he
did not want to fight him, since he owed him no grudge. When Count Raymond had given up his
precious sword, the great Colada, the good one of Bivar endeavored to make friends with his
prisoner, but to no avail. The count refused meat and drink, and was determined to die, until
the Cid assured him that as soon as he ate a hearty meal he should go free. Then he departed
joyfully from the camp, fearing even to the last lest the Cid should change his mind, a thing
the perfect one never would have done.

Cheered by this conquest, the Cid turned to Valencia, and met a great Moorish army, which was
speedily defeated, the Cid's numbers having been greatly increased by men who flocked to him
from Spain. Two Moorish kings were slain, and the survivors were pursued even to Valencia.
Then my Cid sat down before the city for nine months, and in the tenth month Valencia surrendered.
The spoil--who could count it? All were rich who accompanied the Cid, and his fifth was thirty
thousand marks in money, besides much other spoil. And my Cid's renown spread throughout Spain.
Wonderful was he to look upon, for his beard had grown very long. For the love of King Alfonso,
who had banished him, he said it should never be cut, nor a hair of it be plucked, and it should
be famous among Moors and Christians. Then he again called Minaya to him, and to King Alfonso
sent a hundred horses, with the request that his wife and daughters might be allowed to join
him. Also he sent him word that he had been joined by a good bishop, Don Jerome, and had created
for him a bishopric.

Now were the enemies of the good one of Bivar incensed in proportion as the king was pleased
with this noble gift. And when the king silenced the envious ones, and ordered an escort for
Ximena and her daughters, and treated Minaya with consideration, the Infantes of Carrion talked
together, commenting on the growing importance of my Cid. "It would better our fortunes to
marry his daughters, but they are below us in rank." And so saying they sent their salutations
to the Cid.

The Cid met his wife and daughters on his new horse, Babieca, the wonder of all Spain, and
great was his joy to clasp them again in his arms. And he took them up in the highest part
of Valencia, and their bright eyes looked over the city and the sea, and they all thanked God
for giving them so fair a prize.

When winter was past and spring had come, the King of Morocco crossed the sea to Valencia with
fifty thousand men, and pitched his tents before the city. Then the Cid took his wife and daughters
up in the Alcazar, and showed them the vast army. "They bring a gift for us, a dowry against
the marriage of our daughters. Because ye are here, with God's help, I shall win the battle."

He went forth on the good Babieca; four thousand less thirty followed him to attack the fifty
thousand Moors. The Cid's arms dripped with blood to the elbow; the Moors he slew could not
be counted. King Yucef himself he smote three times, and only the swiftness of the horse he
rode saved the king from death. All fled who were not slain, leaving the spoil behind. Three
thousand marks of gold and silver were found there, and the other spoil was countless. Then
my Cid ordered Minaya and Pero Bermuez to take to Alfonso the great tent of the King of Morocco,
and two hundred horses. And the king was greatly pleased, and the Infantes of Carrion, counselling
together, said, "The fame of the Cid grows greater; let us ask his daughters in marriage."
And the king gave their request to Minaya and Bermuez, who were to bear it to the Cid.

Said my Cid, when he heard the proposal: "The Infantes of Carrion are haughty, and have a faction
in court. I have no taste for the match; but since my king desires it, I will be silent."

When the king heard his answer, he appointed a meeting, and when he that in a good hour was
born saw his king, he fell at his feet to pay him homage. But the king said: "Here do I pardon
you, and grant you my love from this day forth."

The next day when the king presented to the Cid the offer of the Infantes, my Cid replied:
"My daughters are not of marriageable age, but I and they are in your hands. Give them as it
pleases you." Then the king commissioned Alvar Fanez to act for him and give the daughters
of my Cid to the Infantes.

The Cid hastened home to prepare for the wedding. The palace was beautifully decorated with
hangings of purple and samite. Rich were the garments of the Infantes, and meek their behavior
in the presence of my Cid. The couples were wedded by the Bishop Don Jerome, and the wedding
festivities lasted for fifteen days. And for wellnigh two years the Cid and his sons-in-law
abode happily in Valencia.

One day while my Cid was lying asleep in his palace, a lion broke loose from its cage, and
all the court were sore afraid. The Cid's followers gathered around his couch to protect him;
but Ferran Gonzalez crept beneath the couch, crying from fear, and Diego ran into the court
and threw himself across a wine-press beam, so that he soiled his mantle. The Cid, awakened
by the noise, arose, took the lion by the mane, and dragged him to his cage, to the astonishment
of all present. Then my Cid asked for his sons-in-law, and when they were found, pale and frightened,
the whole court laughed at them until my Cid bade them cease. And the Infantes were deeply
insulted.

While they were still sulking over their injuries, King Bucar of Morocco beleagured Valencia
with fifty thousand tents. The Cid and his barons rejoiced at the thought of battle; but the
Infantes were sore afraid, for they were cowards, and feared to be slain in battle. The Cid
told them to remain in Valencia; but stung by shame they went forth with Bermuez, who reported
that both had fleshed their swords in battle with the Moor.

Great was the slaughter of the Moors on that field. Alvar Fanez, Minaya, and the fighting bishop
came back dripping with gore, and as for my Cid, he slew King Bucar himself, and brought home
the famous sword, Tizon, worth full a thousand marks in gold.

The Infantes, still wrathful at their humiliation, talked apart: "Let us take our wealth and
our wives and return to Carrion. Once away from the Campeador, we will punish his daughters,
so that we shall hear no more of the affair of the lion. With the wealth we have gained from
the Cid we can now wed whom we please."

Sore was the heart of the Cid when he heard of their determination; but he gave them rich gifts,
and also the priceless swords Colada and Tizon. "I won them in knightly fashion," said he,
"and I give them to you, for ye are my sons, since I gave you my daughters; in them ye take
the core of my heart." He ordered Feliz Munoz, his nephew, to accompany them as an escort,
and sent them by way of Molina to salute his friend, Abengalvon the Moor.

The Moor received them in great state, and escorted them as far as the Salon; but when he overheard
the Infantes plotting to destroy him, and seize his substance, he left them in anger. At night
the Infantes pitched their tents in an oak forest full of tall trees, among which roamed fierce
beasts. During the night they made a great show of love to their wives, and the next morning
ordered the escort to go on, saying that they would follow alone. As soon as they were alone
they stripped the daughters of the Cid of their garments, beat them with their saddle-girths
and spurs, and left them for dead in the wild forest. "Now we are avenged for the dishonor
of the lion," said they, as they departed for Carrion. But Feliz Munoz, who had suspected the
Infantes, had gone forward but a little way, and then crept back, so that from a thicket he
perceived the sufferings of his cousins. Straightway he went to their rescue, found them clothes,
and helped them home again.

When the Cid heard of this insult to himself and his daughters, he grasped his beard and swore
a mighty oath that the Infantes would rue the day when they had thus offended him. All of the
Cid's friends strove to comfort the ladies Elvira and Sol, and Abengalvon the Moor made them
a rich supper for love of the Cid.

At the request of my Cid, King Alfonso summoned a Cortes at Toledo, to try the cause of the
Cid and the Infantes. Thither went the Cid, richly clad, so that all men wondered at his rich
garments, his long hair in a scarlet and gold coif, and his uncut beard bound up with cords.
He and his hundred men wore bright hauberks under their ermines, and trenchant swords under
their mantles, for they feared treachery.

The king appointed some of his counts as judges, and announced that he held this, the third
Cortes of his reign, for the love of the Cid. Then my Cid stood forth.

"I am not dishonored because the Infantes deserted my daughters," said the Cid, "for the king
gave them away, not I; but I demand my swords, Colada and Tizon. When my lords of Carrion gave
up my daughters they relinquished all claims to my property."

The Infantes, well pleased that he demanded no more, returned the swords; and when the blades
were unsheathed and placed in the hands of the king, the eyes of the court were dazzled by
their brightness.

The Cid presented Tizon to his nephew and Colada to Martin Antolinez. "Now, my king, I have
another grievance. I now demand that the Infantes restore the three thousand marks in gold
and silver they carried from Valencia. When they ceased to be my sons-in-law they ceased to
own my gold." Then the Infantes were troubled, for they had spent the money; but the judges
gave them no relief, and they were forced to pay it out of their heritage of Carrion.

"So please your grace," said the Cid, "still another grievance, the greatest of all, I have
yet to state. I hold myself dishonored by the Infantes. Redress by combat they must yield,
for I will take no other."

The Count Garcia ridiculed the Cid's claim. "The noble lords of Carrion are of princely birth;
your daughters are not fitting mates for them." Then, while his enemies were taunting him and
the court broke into an uproar, the Cid called on Pero Bermuez, "Dumb Peter," to speak.

When Pero spoke he made himself clear. For the first time he told how like a craven Ferrando
had demeaned himself in battle, and how he himself had slain the Moor on whom the prince had
turned his back. He also reminded Ferrando of the affair of the lion. When Diego attempted
to speak, he was silenced by Martin Antolinez, who told of the figure he cut when he clung
to the wine-press beam in an agony of fear, on the day the lion came forth from its cage. Then
the king, commanding silence, gave them permission to fight. Martin Antolinez engaged to meet
Diego, Pero Bermuez was to combat with Ferrando, and Muno Gustioz challenged the brawler, Assur
Gonzalez. It was agreed that the combat should be held at the end of three weeks in the vega
of Carrion.

When all had been arranged to his satisfaction, the Cid took off his coif, and released his
beard, and all the court wondered at him. Then he offered some of his wealth to all present,
and, kissing the king's hand, besought him to take Babieca. But this the king refused to do:
"Babieca is for the like of you to keep the Moors off with. If I took him he would not have
so good a lord."

When the day for the combat arrived, the king himself went to Carrion to see that no treachery
was used, and he said to the Infantes: "Ye have need to fight like men. If ye come out successful,
ye will receive great honor. If ye are vanquished, the fault will be on your own heads. Seek
to do no wrong; woe betide him who attempts it!"

Then the marshals placed the contestants in the lists and left them face to face. Each with
his gaze fixed on the other, they rushed together and met midway of the lists.

At the thrust of Pero's Lance, Ferrando fell from his horse and yielded, as he saw the dread
Tizon held over him. At the same time Diego fled from the sword of Martin Antolinez, and Muno
Gustioz's lance pierced Assur Gonzalez, who begged him to hold his hand, since the Infantes
were vanquished.

Thus the battle was won, and Don Roderick's champions gained the victory. Great was the sorrow
in the house of Carrion; but he who wrongs a noble lady deserves such suffering.

Rejoiced were they of Valencia when the champions brought home these tidings, and ere long,
favored by Alfonso himself, the princes of Navarre and Aragon wooed my Cid's daughters, and
were married to them with the most splendid nuptials. Now was the Cid happy, and happier still
he grew as his honor increased, until upon the feast of Pentecost he passed away. The grace
of Christ be upon him!

SELECTIONS FROM THE POEM OF THE CID.

COUNT RAYMOND AND MY CID.

After one of the victories over the Moors won by the Cid after his banishment by King Alfonso,
he despatched a messenger to the king with a gift of thirty horses, and while awaiting his
return, encamped in the Pine-wood of Tebar and levied tribute on the surrounding country. This
information was conveyed to the Count of Barcelona, Raymond Berenger, who prepared to march
against the intruder.

  Great mustering there is of Moors and Christians through the land,
  A mighty host of men-at-arms he hath at his command.
  Two days, three nights, they march to seek the Good One of Bivar,
  To snare him where he harbors in the Pine-wood of Tebar;
  And such the speed of their advance, that, cumbered with his spoils,
  And unaware, my Cid wellnigh was taken in the toils.
  The tidings reached my Cid as down the sierra side he went,
  Then straightway to Count Raymond be a friendly message sent:
  "Say to the count that he, meseems, to me no grudge doth owe:
  Of him I take no spoil, with him in peace I fain would go."
  "Nay," said the count, "for all his deeds he hath to make amends:
  This outlaw must be made to know whose honor he offends."
  With utmost speed the messenger Count Raymond's answer brought;
  Then of a surety knew my Cid a battle must be fought.
  "Now, cavaliers," quoth he, "make safe the booty we have won.
  Look to your weapons, gentlemen; with speed your armor don.
  On battle bent Count Raymond comes; a mighty host hath he
  Of Moors and Christians; fight we must if hence we would go free.
  Here let us fight our battle out, since fight we must perforce.
  On with your harness, cavaliers, quick saddle, and to horse!
  Yonder they come, the linen breeks, all down the mountain side,
  For saddles they have Moorish pads, with slackened girths they ride:
  Our saddles are Galician make, our leggings tough and stout:
  A hundred of us gentlemen should scatter such a rout.
  Before they gain the level plain, home with the lance charge we,
  And then, for every blow we strike, we empty saddles three.
  Count Raymond Berenger shall know with whom he has to do;
  And dearly in Tebar to-day his raid on me shall rue."
  In serried squadron while he speaks they form around my Cid.
  Each grasps his lance, and firm and square each sits upon his steed.
  Over against them down the hill they watch the Franks descend,
  On to the level ground below, where plain and mountain blend.
  Then gives my Cid the word to charge--with a good will they go:
  Fast ply the lances; some they pierce, and some they overthrow.
  And he that in a good hour was born soon hath he won the field;
  And the Count Raymond Berenger he hath compelled to yield;
  And reaping honor for his beard a noble prize hath made:
  A thousand marks of silver worth, the great Colada blade.

  Unto his quarters under guard the captive count he sent,
  While his men haste to gather in their spoils in high content.
  Then for my Cid Don Roderick a banquet they prepare;
  But little doth Count Raymond now for feast or banquet care.
  They bring him meat and drink, but he repels them with disdain.
  "No morsel will I touch," said he, "for all the wealth of Spain.
  Let soul and body perish now; life why should I prolong,
  Conquered and captive at the hands of such an ill-breeched throng?"
  "Nay," said my Cid; "take bread and wine; eat, and thou goest free;
  If not, thy realms in Christendom thou never more shalt see."
  "Go thou, Don Roderick," said the Count, "eat if thou wilt, but I
  Have no more lust for meat and drink: I only crave to die."
  Three days, while they the booty share, for all that they entreat,
  The Count his purpose holds unchanged, refusing still to eat.
  Then said my Cid, "I pray thee, Count, take food and trust to me;
  Thyself and two knights of thy train I promise to set free."
  Glad was Count Raymond in his heart when he the promise heard--
  "A marvel that will be, my Cid, if thou dost keep thy word."
  "Then, Count, take food, and when I see thy hunger satisfied,
  My word is pledged to let thee go, thyself and two beside.
  But understand, one farthing's worth I render not again
  Of what has been in battle lost and won on yonder plain.
  I give not back the lawful spoils I fairly win in fight;
  But for mine own and vassals' wants I hold them as my right.
  My followers are needy men; I cannot if I would;
  For spoil from thee and others won is all our livelihood.
  And such, while God's good will it is, must be our daily life,
  As outcasts forced to wander, with an angry king at strife."
  With lighter heart Count Raymond called for water for his hands,
  And then with his two gentlemen, sent by the Cid's commands,
  He blithely sat him down to meat: God! with what gust ate he!
  And glad was the Campeador such heartiness to see.
  Quoth he, "Until thou eat thy fill we part not, Count, to-day."
  "Nor loth am I," Count Raymond said, "such bidding to obey."
  So he and his two cavaliers a hearty meal they made:
  It pleased my Cid to watch his hands, how lustily they played.
  "Now if thou wilt," Count Raymond said, "that we are satisfied,
  Bid them to lead the horses forth, that we may mount and ride.
  Never since I have been a Count have I yet broken fast
  With such a relish; long shall I remember this repast."
  Three palfreys with caparisons of costly sort they bring,
  And on the saddles robes of fur and mantles rich they fling.
  Thus, with a knight on either hand, away Count Raymond rides;
  While to the outposts of the camp his guests the Champion guides.
  "Now speed thee, Count; ride on," quoth he, "a free Frank as thou art.
  For the brave spoil thou leavest me I thank thee from my heart;
  And if to win it back again perchance thou hast a mind,
  Come thou and seek me when thou wilt; I am not far to find.
  But if it be not to thy taste to try another day,
  Still, somewhat, be it mine or thine, thou carriest away."
  "Nay! go in peace for me, my Cid: no more I seek of thee;
  And thou, I think, for one year's space hast won enough of me."
                  Ormsby's Translation.

MY CID'S TRIUMPH.

In the Cortes called by the King of Spain to hear the cause of the Cid,
whose daughters had been shamefully treated and deserted by their
husbands, the Infantes of Carrion, Ferran and Diego Gonzalez, the Cid
demanded the restitution of his swords and of three thousand marks of gold
and silver he had given the Infantes.
  The Count Garcia was the first that rose to make reply.
  "So please ye, gracious king, of all the kings of Spain most high;
  Strange is the guise in which my Cid before you hath appeared;
  To grace your summoned court he comes, with that long straggling beard;
  With awe struck dumb, methinks, are some; some look as though they
    feared.
  The noble lords of Carrion of princely race are born;
  To take the daughters of my Cid for lemans they should scorn;
  Much more for brides of equal birth: in casting them aside--
  We care not for his blustering talk--we hold them justified."
  Upstood the Champion, stroked his beard, and grasped it in his hands.
  "Thanks be to God above," he cried, "who heaven and earth commands,
  A long and lordly growth it is, my pleasure and my pride;
  In this my beard, Garcia, say, what find you to deride?
  Its nurture since it graced my chin hath ever been my care;
  No son of woman born hath dared to lay a finger there;
  No son of Christian or of Moor hath ever plucked a hair.
  Remember Cabra, Count! of thine the same thou canst not say:
  On both thy castle and thy beard I laid my hand that day:
  Nay! not a groom was there but he his handful plucked away.
  Look, where my hand hath been, my lords, all ragged yet it grows!"
  With noisy protest breaking in Ferran Gonzalez rose:
  "Cid, let there be an end of this; your gifts you have again,
  And now no pretext for dispute between us doth remain.
  Princes of Carrion are we, with fitting brides we mate;
  Daughters of emperors or kings, not squires of low estate:
  We brook not such alliances, and yours we rightly spurned."
  My Cid, Ruy Diaz, at the word, quick to Bermuez turned.
  "Now is the time, Dumb Peter, speak, O man that sittest mute!
  My daughters' and thy cousins' name and fame are in dispute;
  To me they speak, to thee they look to answer every word.
  If I am left to answer now, thou canst not draw thy sword."
  Tongue-tied Bermuez stood, awhile he strove for words in vain,
  But, look you, when he once began he made his meaning plain.
  "Cid, first I have a word for you: you always are the same,
  In Cortes ever jibing me, 'Dumb Peter' is the name:
  It never was a gift of mine, and that long since you knew;
  But have you found me fail in aught that fell to me to do?
  You lie, Ferrando; lie in all you say upon that score.
  The honor was to you, not him, the Cid Campeador;
  For I know something of your worth, and somewhat I can tell.
  That day beneath Valencia wall--you recollect it well--
  You prayed the Cid to place you in the forefront of the fray;
  You spied a Moor, and valiantly you went that Moor to slay;
  And then you turned and fled--for his approach, you would not stay.
  Right soon he would have taught you 't was a sorry game to play,
  Had I not been in battle there to take your place that day.
  I slew him at the first onfall; I gave his steed to you;
  To no man have I told the tale from that hour hitherto.
  Before the Cid and all his men you got yourself a name,
  How you in single combat slew a Moor--a deed of fame;
  And all believed in your exploit; they wist not of your shame.
  You are a craven at the core; tall, handsome, as you stand:
  How dare you talk as now you talk, you tongue without a hand?
  Again, Ferrando, call to mind--another tale for you--
  That matter of the lion; it was at Valencia too.
  My Cid lay sleeping when you saw the unchained lion near;
  What did you do, Ferrando, then, in your agony of fear?
  Low did you crouch behind the couch whereon the Champion lay:
  You did, Ferrando, and by that we rate your worth to-day.
  We gathered round to guard our lord, Valencia's conqueror.
  He rose, and to the lion went, the brave Campeador;
  The lion fawned before his feet and let him grasp its mane;
  He thrust it back into its cage; he turned to us again:
  His trusty vassals to a man he saw around him there;
  Where were his sons-in-law? he asked, and none could tell him where.
  Now take thou my defiance as a traitor, trothless knight:
  Upon this plea before our King Alfonso will I fight;
  The daughters of my lord are wronged, their wrong is mine to right.
  That ye those ladies did desert, the baser are ye then;
  For what are they?--weak women; and what are ye?--strong men.
  On every count I deem their cause to be the holier,
  And I will make thee own it when we meet in battle here.
  Traitor thou shalt confess thyself, so help me God on high,
  And all that I have said to-day my sword shall verify."

  Thus far these two. Diego rose, and spoke as ye shall hear:
  "Counts by our birth are we, of stain our lineage is clear.
  In this alliance with my Cid there was no parity.
  If we his daughters cast aside, no cause for shame we see.
  And little need we care if they in mourning pass their lives,
  Enduring the reproach that clings to scorned rejected wives.
  In leaving them we but upheld our honor and our right,
  And ready to the death am I, maintaining this, to fight."
  Here Martin Antolinez sprang upon his feet: "False hound!
  Will you not silent keep that mouth where truth was never found?
  For you to boast! the lion scare have you forgotten too?
  How through the open door you rushed, across the court-yard flew;
  How sprawling in your terror on the wine-press beam you lay?
  Ay! never more, I trow, you wore the mantle of that day.
  There is no choice; the issue now the sword alone can try;
  The daughters of my Cid ye spurned; that must ye justify.
  On every count I here declare their cause the cause of right,
  And thou shall own the treachery the day we join in fight."
  He ceased, and striding up the hall Assur Gonzalez passed;
  His cheek was flushed with wine, for he had stayed to break his fast;
  Ungirt his robe, and trailing low his ermine mantle hung;
  Rude was his bearing to the court, and reckless was his tongue.
  "What a to-do is here, my lords! was the like ever seen?
  What talk is this about my Cid--him of Bivar, I mean?
  To Riodouirna let him go to take his millers' rent,
  And keep his mills agoing there, as once he was content.
  He, forsooth, mate his daughters with the Counts of Carrion!"
  Up started Muno Gustioz: "False, foul-mouthed knave, have done!
  Thou glutton, wont to break thy fast without a thought of prayer,
  Whose heart is plotting mischief when thy lips are speaking fair;
  Whose plighted word to friend or lord hath ever proved a lie;
  False always to thy fellow-man, falser to God on high.
  No share in thy good will I seek; one only boon I pray,
  The chance to make thee own thyself the villain that I say."
  Then spoke the king: "Enough of words: ye have my leave to fight,
  The challenged and the challengers; and God defend the right."
  Ferrando and his challenger, Pero Bermuez, close;
  Firm are the lances held, and fair the shields receive the blows.
  Through Pero's shield Ferrando drove his lance, a bloodless stroke;
  The point stopped short in empty space, the shaft in splinters broke.
  But on Bermuez, firm of seat, the shock fell all in vain;
  And while he took Ferrando's thrust he paid it back again.
  The armored buckler shattering, right home his lance he pressed,
  Driving the point through boss and plate against his foeman's breast.
  Three folds of mail Ferrando wore, they stood him in good stead;
  Two yielded to the lance's point, the third held fast the head.
  But forced into the flesh it sank a hand's breadth deep or more,
  Till bursting from the gasping lips in torrents gushed the gore.
  Then, the girths breaking, o'er the croup borne rudely to the ground,
  He lay, a dying man it seemed to all who stood around.
  Bermuez cast his lance aside, and sword in hand came on;
  Ferrando saw the blade he bore, he knew it was Tizon:
  Quick ere the dreaded brand could fall, "I yield me," came the cry.
  Vanquished the marshals granted him, and Pero let him lie.

  And Martin Antolinez and Diego--fair and true
  Each struck upon the other's shield, and wide the splinters flew.
  Then Antolinez seized his sword, and as he drew the blade,
  A dazzling gleam of burnished steel across the meadow played;
  And at Diego striking full, athwart the helmet's crown,
  Sheer through the steel plates of the casque he drove the falchion down,
  Through coif and scarf, till from the scalp the locks it razed away,
  And half shorn off and half upheld the shattered head-piece lay.
  Reeling beneath the blow that proved Colada's cruel might,
  Diego saw no chance but one, no safety save in flight:
  He wheeled and fled, but close behind him Antolinez drew;
  With the flat blade a hasty blow he dealt him as he flew;
  But idle was Diego's sword; he shrieked to Heaven for aid:
  "O God of glory, give me help! save me from yonder blade!"
  Unreined, his good steed bore him safe and swept him past the bound,
  And Martin Antolinez stood alone upon the ground.
  "Come hither," said the king; "thus far the conquerors are ye."
  And fairly fought and won the field the marshals both agree.
  So much for these, and how they fought: remains to tell you yet
  How meanwhile Muno Gustioz Assur Gonzalez met.
  With a strong arm and steady aim each struck the other's shield,
  And under Assur's sturdy thrusts the plates of Muno's yield;
  But harmless passed the lance's point, and spent its force in air.
  Not so Don Muno's; on the shield of Assur striking fair,
  Through plate and boss and foeman's breast his pennoned lance he sent,
  Till out between the shoulder blades a fathom's length it went.
  Then, as the lance he plucked away, clear from the saddle swung,
  With one strong wrench of Muno's wrist to earth was Assur flung;
  And back it came, shaft, pennon, blade, all stained a gory red;
  Nor was there one of all the crowd but counted Assur sped,
  While o'er him Muno Gustioz stood with uplifted brand.
  Then cried Gonzalo Assurez: "In God's name hold thy hand!
  Already have ye won the field; no more is needed now."
  And said the marshals, "It is just, and we the claim allow."
  And then the King Alfonso gave command to clear the ground,
  And gather in the relics of the battle strewed around.
  And from the field in honor went Don Roderick's champions three.
  Thanks be to God, the Lord of all, that gave the victory.

  But fearing treachery, that night upon their way they went,
  As King Alfonso's honored guests in safety homeward sent,
  And to Valencia city day and night they journeyed on,
  To tell my Cid Campeador that his behest was done.
  But in the lands of Carrion it was a day of woe,
  And on the lords of Carrion it fell a heavy blow.
  And favored by the king himself, Alfonso of Leon,
  Prosperous was the wooing of Navarre and Aragon,
  The bridals of Elvira and of Sol in splendor passed;
  Stately the former nuptials were, but statelier far the hast.
  Ormsby's Translation.

THE DIVINE COMEDY.

 "This Poem of the earth and air,
  This mediaeval miracle of song."

Dante Alighieri was born at Florence, in May, 1265. His family belonged to the Guelph, or Papal
faction, and he early took part in the struggle between the parties. In 1274 he first saw Beatrice
Portinari, and he says of this meeting in the "Vita Nuova," "I say that thenceforward Love
swayed my soul, which was even then espoused to him." Beatrice died in 1290, and Dante married
Gemma Donati, between 1291 and 1294. In 1295 he joined the Art of Druggists, in order to become
a member of the Administrative Council. In 1300 he was made Prior, and in 1301, when the Neri
entered Florence, he was exiled, his property confiscated, and himself sentenced to be burned,
if found within the republic. After this he became a Ghibeline, and took up arms against the
city with his fellow-exiles, but withdrew from their council at last because of disagreements,
and separating from them, spent his time at Verona, Padua, Sunigianda, and in the monastery
of Gubbio. In 1316 the government of Florence issued a decree allowing the exiles to return
on payment of a fine; but Dante indignantly refused to acknowledge thus that he had been in
the wrong. He was in Ravenna in 1320, and died there Sept. 14, 1321, on his return from an
embassy to Venice.

The "Commedia" was written during Dante's nineteen years of exile. The three parts, Hell, Purgatory,
and Paradise, are emblematic of the threefold state of man,--sin, grace, and beatitude. The
thirty-three cantos into which each part is divided, are in allusion to the years of the Saviour's
life, and the triple rhyme suggests the Trinity.

The Divine Comedy is written in the terza rima, which consists of three verses arranged in
such a way that the middle line of each triplet rhymes with the first or third verse of the
succeeding triplet.

The entire time occupied in the "Commedia" is eleven days, from March 25 to April 5, 1300.

Dante called the poem a comedy because of its prosperous ending. The prefix "divine" was given
it later by its admirers.

The Divine Comedy is sometimes called the epic of mediaevalism, and again, the epic of man.
Dante himself said: "The subject of the whole work, then, taken literally, is the state of
the soul after death, regarded as a matter of fact; for the action of the whole work deals
with this and is about this. But if the work be taken allegorically, its subject is man, in
so far as by merit or demerit in the exercise of free will, he is exposed to the rewards or
punishment of justice."

For a time the Divine Comedy was neglected, and even in comparatively recent times the Inferno
was the only portion read; but of late years there has been a re-awakening of interest in regard
to the whole poem.

In no other of the epics has the author put so much of himself as Dante has in the "Commedia."
It was he himself who saw this vision; he himself, proud, tortured, who carried the sense of
his wrongs with him through Hell and Purgatory, even into Paradise. We learn the history of
his times, all the crimes committed by men in high position, and we also learn the history
of the unhappy Florentine, of whose poem it has been said, "none other in the world is so deeply
and universally sorrowful."

BIBLIOGRAPHY AND CRITICISM, THE DIVINE COMEDY.

J. Colomb de Batines's Bibliografia Dantesca, 2 vols., 1846;

William Coolidge Lane's The Dante collections in the Harvard College and Boston Public Libraries
(Bibliographical contributions of the library of Harvard University, 1885);

William Coolidge Lane's Additions to the Dante collection in the Harvard Library (see the Annual
Reports of the Dante Society of Cambridge, Mass., 1887);

Brother Azarius's Spiritual Sense of the Divina Commedia (in his Phases of Thought and Criticism,
1892, pp. 125-182);

Henry Clark Barlow's Critical Contributions to the Study of the Divine Comedy, 1865;

Herbert Baynes's Dante and his Ideal, 1891;

Vincenzo Botta's Introduction to the Study of Dante, 1887;

Oscar Browning's Dante, his Life and Writing, 1890, pp. 70-104;

A. J. Butler's Dante, his Time and Work, 1895;

Richard William Church's Dante and Other Essays, 1888, pp. 1-191;

J. Farrazzi's Manuale Dantesco, 5 vols., 1865-77;

William Torrey Harris's Spiritual Sense of Dante's Divina Commedia, 1890;

Francis Hettinger's Dante's Divina Commedia, its Scope and Value, Tr. by H. S. Bowden, 1887
(Roman Catholic standpoint);

J. R. Lowell's Essay on Dante (in his Among my Books, 1876);

Lewis E. Mott's Dante and Beatrice, an Essay on Interpretation, 1892;

Giovanni Andrea Scartazzini's A Companion to Dante, from the German, by A. J. Butler, 1892;

Denton J. Snider's Dante's Inferno: a Commentary, 1892;

Augustus Hopkins Strong's Dante and the Divine Comedy (in his Philosophy and Religion, 1888,
pp. 501-524);

John Addington Symonds's An Introduction to the Study of Dante, Ed. 2, 1890;

Paget Toynbee's Dictionary of the Divina Commedia, 2 parts;

William Warren Vernon's Readings on the Purgatorio of Dante, chiefly based on the Commentary
of Benvenuto da Imola; Intro. by the Dean of St. Paul's, 2 vols., 1889;

Dr. Edward Moore's Time References in the Divina Commedia, London, 1887;

Dr. E. Moore's Contributions to the Textual Criticism of the Divina Commedia, Cambridge, 1889.

STANDARD ENGLISH TRANSLATIONS, THE DIVINE COMEDY.

The Divine Comedy, the Inferno, a literal prose translation with the text of the original collated
from the best editions, with explanatory notes by J. A. Carlyle, Ed. 6, 1891 (contains valuable
chapters on manuscripts, translations, etc.);

Divina Commedia, edited with translation and notes by A. J. Butler, 1892;

Vision of Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise, Tr. by H. F. Cary, 1888;

The Divine Comedy, Tr. by H. W. Longfellow, 1887;

The Divine Comedy, Tr. by C. E. Norton, 1891-92 (rhythmical prose translation);

The Divine Comedy, Tr. of the Commedia and Lanzoniere, notes, essays, and biographical introduction
by E. H. Plumptre, 1887;

Divina Commedia, Tr. into English verse with notes and illustrations by J. A. Wilstach, 2 vols.,
1888.

THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE HELL.

The Hell conceived by Dante was made by the falling of Lucifer to the centre of the earth.
It was directly under Jerusalem. The earth, displaced by Lucifer's fall, made the Mount of
Purgatory, which was the antipodes of Jerusalem.

The unbarred entrance gate, over which stands the inscription, "Leave hope behind, all ye who
enter here," leads into a Vestibule, or Ante-Hell, a dark plain separated from Hell proper
by the river Acheron. Hell proper then falls into three great divisions for the punishment
of the sins of Incontinence, Bestiality, and Malice, which are punished in nine circles, each
circle sub-divided. Circle One is the Limbo of the Unbaptized. Circles Two, Three, Four, and
Five are reserved for the punishment of the sins of Incontinence, Lasciviousness, Gluttony,
Avarice with Prodigality, and Anger with Melancholy. In Circle Six is punished the sin of Bestiality,
under which fall Infidelity and Heresiarchy, Bestiality having here its Italian meaning of
folly. In Circles Seven and Eight is punished Malice, subdivided into Violence and Fraud. There
are three divisions of Violence,--the Violent against their neighbors (Tyrants, Murderers,
etc.); the Violent against themselves (Suicides); and the violent against God (Blasphemers,
etc.); and ten divisions of Circle Eight,--Fraud, i.e., Seducers, Flatterers, Simoniacs, Soothsayers,
Barrators, Hypocrites, Thieves, False Counsellors, Schismatics, and Forgers and Falsifiers.
Below these ten pits yawns the well of the giants, above which the giants tower so that half
their persons is visible. Within this well in Circle Nine is Cocytus, a lake of ice divided
into four belts,--Caina, Antenora, Ptolemaea, and Judecca, where are punished, respectively,
the Betrayers of their kindred, of their country, of their friends and guests, and of their
benefactors. At the bottom of the pit is Lucifer, half above the ice and half below it, the
centre of his body being the centre of gravity.

THE STORY OF THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE HELL.

The poet Dante, in the thirty-fifth year of his life, this being the year 1300 A. D., on New
Year's day of the old reckoning, lost his way in a rough and thorny forest, and when he attempted
to regain it by mounting a hill that rose before him resplendent in sunshine, encountered a
leopard, a lion, and a wolf. Driven back by these, and utterly despairing of rescue, he met
one who declared himself to be that Vergil who had sung the fall of Troy and the flight of
Aeneas, and who promised to take him through the lower world and Purgatory, even unto Paradise.
Dante questioned why it was permitted to him to take the journey denied to so many others,
and was told that Vergil had been sent to his rescue by the beauteous Beatrice, long since
in Paradise. When the poet, trembling with fear, heard that the shining eyes of Beatrice had
wept over his danger in the forest, and that she had sought the gates of hell to effect his
rescue, his strength was renewed, even as the flowers, chilled by the frosts of night, uplift
themselves in the bright light of the morning sun; and he entered without fear on the deep
and savage way.

This allegory, being interpreted, probably means that the poet, entangled in the dark forest
of political anarchy, was driven from the hill of civil order by the Leopard of Pleasure (Florence),
the Lion of Ambition (France), and the Wolf of Avarice (Rome), and was by divine grace granted
a vision of the three worlds that he might realize what comes after death, and be the more
firmly established in the right political faith,--Ghibellinism.

"Through me is the way into the sorrowful city; into eternal dole among the lost people. Justice
incited my sublime Creator. Divine Omnipotence, the highest wisdom, and the Primal Love created
me. Before me, there were no created things. Only eternal, and I eternal, last. Abandon hope,
all ye who enter here!"

Such was the inscription over the doorway, after the reading of which Dante's ears were assailed
by words of agony and heart-rending cries. "This," said Vergil, "is the home of those melancholy
souls who lived without infamy and without praise. Cowards and selfish in life, they are denied
even entrance to hell." As they looked, a long train passed by, stung by gadflies and following
a whirling standard.

Charon, about whose eyes were wheels of flame, endeavored to drive the poet and his guide away
as they stood among the weary and naked souls that gathered shivering on the margin of Acheron;
but as a blast of wind and a burst of crimson light caused a deep sleep to fall on the poet,
he was wafted across the river, and awaking he found himself in the Limbo of the Unbaptized,
the first of the nine circles of hell, where were the souls of many men, women, and infants,
whose only punishment was, without hope, to live on in desire. Here was no torment, only the
sadness caused by the ever-unsatisfied longing for the ever-denied divine grace. This was Vergil's
abode, and in the noble castles set among the green enamelled meadows dwelt Homer, Horace,
and Ovid, Electra, Hector, and Camilla.

Passing down a narrow walk into a region of semi-darkness, they entered the second circle,
where Minos stood, judging the sinners and girding himself with his tail as many times as was
the number of the circle to which the spirit was to go. Here in darkness and storm were the
carnal sinners, whose punishment was to be beaten hither and thither by the winds,--Semiramis,
Dido, Cleopatra, Paris, Tristan, and all those who had sinned for love, and here Dante conversed
with the spirit of Francesca da Rimini, whom he had known in life, and her lover Paolo, slain
for their sin by her husband. Though there is no greater sorrow than to be mindful of the happy
time in misery, she assured Dante that the sorrows of Hell were lightened by the presence of Paolo.

At the sight of Paolo's grief Dante fell swooning with pity, and awoke to find himself in the
circle where a cold rain fell forever on the gluttons. Cerberus guarded the entrance, and now
and again devoured the unhappy ones who lay prone on their faces in the murk and mire. Here
Ciacco of Florence recognized and spoke with Dante, falling back in the mire as the poet passed
on, to rise no more until the Day of Judgment.

Plutus guarded the fourth circle, where were confined the avaricious and prodigal, who, divided
into two bands, rolled weights against each other, uttering wretched insults. Down the sloping
banks to the marsh of the Styx the poets went, past the sullen and angry, who in life refused
the comfort of the sweet air and gladdening sun, and were in consequence doomed forever to
remain buried in the sullen mire. As Dante and Vergil passed over the Styx in the boat of the
vile Phlegyas, Dante was saluted by the spirit of the once haughty and arrogant Philippo Argenti,
whom he repulsed, and gladly saw set upon and torn by the people of the mire.

Then appeared to him the mosques of the city of Dis, within the valley, vermilion-hued from
the fire eternal. Deep were the moats; the walls appeared to be of iron. Upon the flaming summit
sat the Furies, stained with blood, begirt with Hydras. Here even Vergil trembled as they waited
the arrival of one sent from Heaven to open the gate and admit them.

Within, over the plain, were scattered sepulchres heated red hot, with uplifted coverings,
from which issued forth dire laments from the Infidels and Heresiarchs tormented within. To
Farinata degli Uberti, who rose from his tomb to ask the news of Florence, Dante spoke, observing
in the mean time a shade that, on hearing the Tuscan tongue, rose next Uberti, questioning,
"Where is my son, my Guido?" Fancying from the poet's delay in answering, and his use of the
past tense, that his beloved child no longer enjoyed the sweet light, Cavalcante fell back
and appeared no more.

Leaving the dismal plain, whose countless tombs would remain open until the Judgment Day, the
poets entered upon the next and seventh circle, composed of three smaller circles in which
were punished the Violent against their neighbors, against nature, and against God. The steep
banks of the ravine were guarded by the huge Minotaur, from which Dante and Vergil escaped
only by running.

Within Phlegethon, the boiling river of blood, stood the tyrants, among whom were Dionysius,
Azzolin, and Attila, uttering loud laments. If they ventured to stir from their place of torment
they were pierced by the arrows of the Centaurs that guarded the banks. The Centaur Nessus
conveyed Dante across the river into the second circle, the dolorous forest, where the Violent
against nature, the Suicides, were transformed into closely set, twisted thorn-trees, infested
with harpies that fed on their leaves, inflicting perpetual pain; thence into the third circle,
where the Violent against God, chief among whom was the arrogant Capaneus, dwelt in a sandy
plain surrounded by the dolorous forest. Upon the naked souls, some of whom were lying supine,
some crouching, others moving about continually, fell a perpetual shower of flakes of fire.

Picking their way along the edge of the forest, not daring to step on the sand waste, the poets
came upon a little blood-red rivulet quenching the flames above it, Phlegethon again, formed
by the rivers Acheron and Styx, whose source is the tears of Time. As they skirted the forest
they saw a troop of spirits hastening past, one of whom, after a sharp look, grasped Dante's
garment exclaiming, "What a wonder!" The baked countenance, the ghastly face, was that of his
old teacher Ser Brunetto, who not daring to stop for fear of increasing his punishment, followed
him, questioning him on his appearance below, and comforting him by the assurance of his future
greatness. Deep were the burns in the limbs of the other Florentines Dante met below, to whom
he gave tidings of the state of affairs in their former home.

Mounting on the shoulders of the hideous monster Geryon, the poets were carried into a fearful
abyss whose sides were Alp-like in steepness. This was the eighth circle, Malebolge, or Evil
pits, consisting of ten concentric bolge, or ditches of stone with dikes between and rough
bridges running across them to the centre.

In the first pit Jason and other deceivers of women were being lashed by horned demons. In
pit two, a Florentine friend of Dante's was submerged with others in filth as a punishment
for flattery. In pit three the Simoniacs were placed head down in purses in the earth, their
projecting feet tortured with flames. The poets crossed the bridge, and Vergil carried Dante
down the sloping bank so that he could speak to one who proved to be the unhappy Nicholas III.,
who accused Boniface for his evil deeds and expressed a longing for his arrival in this place
of torture. From the next bridge-top Dante dimly perceived the slow procession of weeping soothsayers
with heads reversed on their shoulders. There walked Amphiarus, Tiresias, Manto, and Michael
Scott. So great was Dante's sorrow on beholding the misery of these men who had once been held
in such great esteem, that he leaned against a crag and wept until reproved by Vergil as a
reprobate for feeling compassion at the doom divine. Through the semi-darkness the poets looked
down into pit five, where devils with fantastic names pitched barrators into a lake of boiling
pitch and speared those who dared to raise their heads above the surface. From these Evil Claws
Dante and Vergil escaped only by running into the sixth pit, where walked the hypocrites in
richly gilded mantles. When Dante wondered at their weary faces and their tears, he was told
by two of the Frati Gaudenti (Jolly Friars) of Florence who suffered here, that the cloaks
and hoods were of heaviest lead, a load that grew more irksome with the ages. Caiaphas, Annas,
and the members of the council that condemned Christ lay on the ground transfixed with stakes,
and over their bodies passed the slow moving train of the hypocrites. The next bridge lay in
ruins as a result of the earthquake at the Crucifixion, and Vergil experienced the utmost difficulty
in conveying Dante up the crags to a point where he could look down into the dark dungeon of
thieves, where the naked throng were entwined with serpents and at their bite changed from
man to serpent and back again. Some burned and fell into ashes at the venomous bite, only to
rise again and suffer new tortures. Here Dante spoke with Vanni Fucci of Pistoja, who robbed
the sacristy of Florence, and whose face "was painted with a melancholy shame" at being seen
in his misery. The eighth pit was brightly lighted by the flames that moved back and forth,
each concealing within an evil counsellor. Ulysses and Diomed walked together in a flame cleft
at the top, for the crime of robbing Deidamia of Achilles, of stealing the Palladium, and of
fabricating the Trojan horse. As Dante looked into pit nine he saw a troop compelled to pass
continually by a demon with a sharp sword who mutilated each one each time he made the round
of the circle, so that the wounds never healed. These were the evil counsellors. Mahomet was
there; there too was Ali. But ghastliest of sights was that of a headless trunk walking through
the grim plain, holding its severed head by the hair like a lantern, and exclaiming "O me!"
This was the notorious Bertrand de Born, the Troubadour, who had caused dissension between
Henry II. of England and his son. Among this throng Dante recognized his kinsman Geri del Bello,
who gave him a disdainful look because he had not yet avenged his death. From the tenth and
last pit of Malebolge came a stench as great as though it came from all the hospitals of Valdichiana,
Maremma, and Sardinia, between July and September. All the loathsome diseases were gathered
into this moat to afflict the forgers and falsifiers. Here Dante saw Athamas, mad king of Thebes,
the mad Gianni Schicchi, and Messer Adam of Brescia, the false coiner, who, distorted with
dropsy, was perishing of thirst, and thinking constantly of the cool rivulets that descended
from the verdant hills of Casentino.

As Dante and his guide turned their backs on the wretched valley and ascended the bank that
surrounded it, the blare of a loud horn fell upon their ears, louder than Roland's blast at
Roncesvalles. This came from the plain of the giants between Malebolge and the mouth of the
infernal pit. All around the pit, or well, were set the giants with half their bodies fixed
in earth. Nimrod, as a punishment for building the tower of Babel, could speak no language,
but babbled some gibberish. Ephialtes, Briareus, and Antaeus were here, all horrible in aspect;
Antaeus, less savage than the others, lifted the two poets, and stooping set them down in the
pit below. This was the last and ninth circle, a dismal pit for the punishment of traitors,
who were frozen in the vast lake that Cocytus formed here. In Caina were the brothers Alessandro
and Napoleone degli Alberti, mutual fratricides, their heads frozen together. In Antenora was
that Guelph Bocca who had caused his party's defeat; but the most horrible sight they encountered
was in Ptolemaea, where Count Ugolino, who had been shut up with his sons and grandsons in
a tower to starve by the Archbishop Ruggieri, was now revenging himself in their place of torture
by continually gnawing the archbishop's head, frozen in the ice next his own. Farther down
they walked among those who, when they shed tears over their woe had their teardrops frozen,
so that even this solace was soon denied them. Dante promised to break the frozen veil from
the eyes of one who prayed for aid, but when he learned that it was the Friar Alberigo, whose
body was still on earth, and whose soul was already undergoing punishment, he refused, "for
to be rude to him was courtesy."

In the fourth and last division of the ninth circle, the Judecca, a strong wind was blowing.
Then Dante saw the emperor of the kingdom frozen in the ice, a mighty giant foul to look upon,
with three faces, vermilion, white and yellow, and black. The waving of his two featherless
wings caused the great winds that froze Cocytus. Teardrops fell from his six eyes; in each
mouth he was crunching a sinner, Judas Iscariot, Brutus, and Cassius.

Being warned by Vergil that it was time to depart, Dante clasped his guide around his neck,
and Vergil began to climb down the huge monster until they reached his middle, the centre of
gravity, where with much difficulty they turned and climbed upward along the subterranean course
of Lethe, until they again beheld the stars.

THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE PURGATORY.

The Purgatory of Dante is situated on a mountain top on the opposite side of the earth from
Jerusalem, and is surrounded by the western ocean. The souls of those who go there collect
on the banks of the Tiber, and are taken to the mountain in a boat by an angel pilot. The shores
of the island are covered with the reeds of humility. Around the base of the mount dwell the
souls that, repenting late, must "expiate each year of deferred penitence with thirty years
of deferred Purgatory" unless the time be shortened by the prayers of their friends on earth.
There are three stages of this Ante-Purgatory: the first, for those who put off conversion
through negligence; the second, for those who died by violence and repented while dying; the
third, for those monarchs who were too much absorbed in earthly greatness to give much thought
to the world to come. The ascent of the terraces, as also those of Purgatory proper, is very
difficult, and is not allowed to be made after sunset. The gate of St. Peter separates Ante-Purgatory
from Purgatory proper. Three steps, the first of polished white marble, the second of purple,
rough and cracked, and the third of blood-red porphyry, signifying confession, contrition,
and penance, lead to the gate where sits the angel clad in a penitential robe, with the gold
and silver keys with which to unlock the outer and inner gates. Purgatory proper consists of
seven terraces, in each of which one of the seven capital sins, Pride, Anger, Sloth, Avarice,
Gluttony, and Lasciviousness are punished; Pride first, because no other sin can be purged
from the body until this deepest sin is eliminated. The soul, cleansed of these sins, mounts
to the terrestrial paradise, which, above the sphere of air, crowns the Mount of Purgatory.

THE STORY OF THE DIVINE COMEDY.

THE PURGATORY.

As morning dawned and the poets slowly climbed out of the infernal region and stepped upon
the isle from which the Mount of Purgatory rises, they were accosted by an old man with long
white hair and beard, Cato of Utica, who demanded the reason of their coming, and only permitted
them to remain when he heard that a lady from Heaven had given the command. Then he ordered
Vergil to lave the smoke of Hell from Dante's face in the waves of the sea, and to gird him
with the reed of humility. As the sun rose a radiant angel, guiding a boat laden with souls,
appeared, and the poets fell on their knees until he departed.

As the newly-landed spirits questioned Vergil of the way up the mountain, Dante recognized
among them his beloved friend Casella, the musician, and tried in vain to embrace his spirit
body. At Dante's request, Casella began to sing, and the enchanted spirits were scattered only
by the chiding voice of Cato.

Vergil surveyed the insurmountable height before them, and hastened with Dante to inquire the
way of a troop of souls coming towards them. As they talked, Dante recognized one, blond and
smiling, with a gash over one eyebrow and another over his heart. It was Manfredi, King of
Apulia and Sicily, who was slain at Benevento by Charles of Anjou, and, being under excommunication,
was not allowed Christian burial. He asked Dante to make him happy by telling his daughter
that by faith he was saved from eternal destruction, but because of his sins he must spend
thirty times the time that his presumption had endured at the foot of the mount, unless his
time was shortened by the righteous prayers of his friends on earth.

It was with the greatest difficulty that the poets clambered up the steep and narrow path to
the next terrace, and only the assurance that the ascent would grow easier as he neared the
summit sustained Dante. As Vergil explained to him while resting on the next terrace that the
sun appeared on his left because Purgatory and Jerusalem were in different hemispheres, some
one spoke, and turning they saw a group of persons in an attitude of indolence, among them
a Florentine acquaintance, Belacqua, a maker of musical instruments, who sat waiting the length
of another lifetime for admission above because he had postponed conversion from time to time,
through negligence.

Proceeding, the poets met a concourse of souls who had suffered violent death, chanting the
Miserere, who perceiving Dante to be living, sent messages to their friends on earth. Among
these were Giacopo del Cassero and Buonconte di Montefeltro, son of Dante's friend, Guido di
Montefeltro, who fell in the battle of Campaldino, in which Dante had taken part. Wounded in
the neck, he fell, and had just time to breathe a prayer to Mary, thus saving his soul from
the Evil One, who was so incensed that, raising a great storm, he caused the rivers to overflow
and sweep away the lifeless body, tearing from it the cross he had made with his arms in his
last agony, and burying it in the mire of the Arno. The third shade bade him think of her when,
returned home, he sang of his journey. She was Pia, born at Sienna, who died at Maremma, by
the hand of her husband.

Dante at last managed to escape from these shades, who implored him to ask for prayers for
them on earth, and moved on with Vergil until they met the haughty shade of Sordello, who clasped
Vergil in his arms when he learned he was a Mantuan. Touched by this expression of love for
his native land, Dante launched into an apostrophe to degenerate Italy, to that German Albert
who refused to save the country groaning under oppression, and to lost Florence, torn by internecine
wars.

When Sordello learned that the Mantuan shade was Vergil, he humbled himself before him, and
paid him reverence, asking eagerly in what part of the underworld he dwelt. The sun was sinking,
and as the poets could not ascend by night, he urged them to pass the night with him. Leading
them to a vale carpeted with emerald grass and brilliant with flowers, he pointed out the shades
singing "Salve Regina" as the Emperor Rudolph,--he who made an effort to heal sick Italy,--Philip
III. of France, Charles I. of Naples, and Henry III. of England. As the hour of twilight approached,
that hour in which the sailor thinks of home, and the pilgrim thrills at the sound of vesper
bells, Dante beheld a shade arise, and lifting its palms begin to sing the vesper hymn. Soon
two radiant angels clad in delicate green descended from Heaven, holding flaming swords. These,
Sordello explained, were to keep off the serpent that threatened this fair vale at night.

As the hour of night approached in which the swallow laments its woes, Dante fell asleep on
the grass and dreamed that he was Ganymede snatched from Mt. Ida by Jove's eagle. Awaking,
he found himself alone with Vergil in a strange place, with the sun two hours high. Lucia,
symbolical of the enlightening grace of Heaven, had conveyed him to the spot and pointed out
to Vergil the gate of Purgatory. Cheered and confident, he rose, and they went together to
the portal and mounted the three steps, the first of shining white marble, the second of purple
stone, cracked and burnt, and the third of flaming red porphyry. There, on the diamond threshold,
sat an angel with a naked sword, clad in a robe of ashen gray, whose face was too bright to
look upon. When Dante fell on his knees and implored entrance, the angel imprinted on his forehead
seven "P"'s for the seven sins (Peccata), and opening the gate with the gold and silver keys,
ushered them into the mighty portals. "From Peter I have these keys. Me he instructed to err
rather in opening than in keeping shut. But see that ye look not behind, or ye will at once
return."

With much difficulty the two poets ascended the steep and winding path, and paused to view
the wonderful sculptures on the embankment, that would put Nature herself to shame, so natural
were they. Many examples of Humility were there portrayed,--the Virgin Mary, the Holy Ark,
drawn by oxen, the Psalmist dancing before the Lord, while Michal looked forth in scorn from
her palace window, and Trajan, yielding to the widow's prayer. As they stood there, the souls
came in sight. "Reader, attend not to the fashion of the torment, but think of what follows."
The unhappy ones crept around the terrace, bowed under a heavy burden of stones, and the most
patient, as he bent under his burden, exclaimed, with tears, "I can do no more!" As they walked
they repeated the Lord's Prayer, and kept their eyes fixed on the life-like sculptures on the
floor of those who had suffered before them for the sins of pride: Lucifer, falling from Heaven;
Briareus and Nimrod overcome by the bolts of Jove; Niobe, weeping among her dead children;
Cyrus's head taunted by Tomyris; Troy humbled in ashes.

As Vergil approached the penitents to inquire the way to the next terrace, he and Dante were
invited to join the procession and talk with one who could not lift his face enough to see
them. This was Omberto, who had been slain by the Siennese for his unbearable pride. Dante
also talked with his friend Oderigi, an illuminator of manuscript, who now humbly acknowledged
that he was far surpassed by Franco Bolognese. "What is mundane glory?" he exclaimed, as he
pointed out Provenzano Salvani, with whose fame Tuscany once rang, but who barely escaped Hell
by his voluntary humiliation for a friend. "Lift up thy face!" commanded Vergil, as Dante walked
with his head bowed, absorbed in the floor-sculptures; and as he looked, the white-robed angel
whose face was like "a tremulous flame" approached, and struck Dante's forehead with his wings.
Dante marvelled at the ease with which he mounted, until his master explained that the heaviest
sin, the sin that underlies all others, had fallen from him when the angel struck the "P" from
his forehead, and that the ascent would grow still lighter from terrace to terrace. "Blessed
are the poor in spirit!" sung by sweet voices, greeted the mounting poets.

The second terrace was of livid stone unrelieved by any sculpture. The air was full of voices
inculcating charity and self-denial, and others lamenting the sin of envy. Here envy was punished,
and here the sharpest pain pierced Dante's heart as he saw the penitents sit shoulder to shoulder
against the cliff, robed in sackcloth of the same livid color, their eyelids, through which
bitter tears trickled, sewed together with wire. Sapia of Sienna first greeted Dante and entreated
him to pray for her. When she had told how, after having been banished from her city, she had
prayed that her townsman might be defeated by the Florentines, Dante passed on and spoke with
Guido of Duca, who launched into an invective against Florence to his companion Rinieri. "The
whole valley of the Arno is so vile that its very name should die. Wonder not at my tears,
Tuscan, when I recall the great names of the past, and compare them with the curs who have
fallen heir to them. Those counts are happiest who have left no families." Guido himself was
punished on this terrace because of his envy of every joyous man, and the spirit with whom
he talked was Rinieri, whose line had once been highly honored. "Go, Tuscan," exclaimed Guido,
"better now I love my grief than speech." As the poets passed on, the air was filled with the
lamentations of sinful but now repentant spirits.

Dazzled by the Angel's splendor, the poets passed up the stairs to the third terrace, Dante
in the mean time asking an explanation of Guido's words on joint resolve and trust.

"The less one thinks of another's possessions," replied his guide, "and the more he speaks
of 'our' instead of 'my,' the more of the Infinite Good flows towards him. If you thirst for
further instruction, await the coming of Beatrice."

As they attained the next height, Dante, rapt in vision, saw the sweet Mother questioning her
Son in the Temple, saw Pisistratus, his queen, and the martyred Stephen blessing his enemies
in death. As he awoke, they passed on, to become involved in a thick cloud of smoke, through
which it was impossible to distinguish any object, and whose purpose was to purge away anger,
the sin-cloud that veils the mortal eye.

As they passed from the thick smoke into the sunset, Dante fell into a trance, and saw Itys,
Haman, and other notable examples of unbridled angers, and as the visions faded away, was blinded
by the splendor of the angel guide who directed them to the fourth terrace. As they waited
for the dawn, Vergil answered Dante's eager questions. "Love," he said, "is the seed of every
virtue, and also of every act for which God punished man. Natural love is without error; but
if it is bent on evil aims, if it lacks sufficiency, or if it overleaps its bounds and refuses
to be governed by wise laws, it causes those sins that are punished on this mount. The defective
love which manifests itself as slothfulness is punished on this terrace."

A troop of spirits rushed past them as morning broke, making up by their haste for the sloth
that had marked their lives on earth. As they hurried on they urged themselves to diligence
by cries of "In haste the mountains blessed Mary won!" "Caesar flew to Spain!" "Haste! Grace
grows best in those who ardor feel!" As the poet meditated on their words, he lapsed into a
dream in which he saw the Siren who drew brave mariners from their courses; and even as he
listened to her melodious song, he beheld her exposed by a saint-like lady, Lucia, or Illuminating
Grace. Day dawned, the Angel fanned the fourth "P" from his forehead, and the poet ascended
to the fifth terrace, where lay the shades of the avaricious, prostrate on the earth, weeping
over their sins. They who in life had resolutely turned their gaze from Heaven and fixed it
on the things of the earth, must now grovel in the dust, denouncing avarice, and extolling
the poor and liberal until the years have worn away their sin.

Bending over Pope Adrian the Fifth, Dante heard his confession that he was converted while
he held the Roman shepherd's staff. Then he learned how false a dream was life, but too late,
alas! to escape this punishment. As Dante spoke with the shade of Capet the elder, a mighty
trembling shook the mountain, which chilled his heart until he learned from the shade of Statius,
whom they next met, that it was caused by the moving upward of a purified soul, his own, that
had been undergoing purgation on this terrace five hundred years and more. "Statius was I,"
said the shade, "and my inspiration came from that bright fountain of heavenly fire, the Aeneid;
it was my mother; to it I owe my fame. Gladly would I have added a year to my banishment here,
could I have known the Mantuan." Vergil's glance said "Be mute!" but Dante's smile betrayed
the secret, and Statius fell at Vergil's feet adoring. Statius had suffered for the sin of
prodigality, which was punished, together with avarice, on this terrace.

The three proceeded upward to the sixth terrace, the ascent growing easier on the disappearance
of the "P" of avarice from Dante's forehead. Vergil and Statius moved on in loving conversation,
Dante reverently following. "Your Pollio led me to Christianity," said Statius, "but my cowardice
caused me long to conceal it. Prodigality brought me hither."

On the sixth terrace two trees stood in opposite parts of the pathway that the gluttons were
compelled to tread, the first with branches broad at the top and tapering downward, so that
it was impossible to mount it; upon it fell a fount of limpid water. From its branches a voice
cried, "Of this food ye shall have a scarcity. In the primal age, acorns furnished sweet food
and each rivulet seemed nectar." Towards the next tree, grown from a twig of the tree of knowledge,
the gluttons stretched eager hands, but a voice cried, "Pass on; approach not!" Such desire
for food was excited by these tempting fruits, that the gluttons were emaciated beyond recognition.
By his voice alone did Dante recognize his kinsman Forese, whose time in Purgatory had been
shortened by the prayers of his wife Nella. Forese talked with Dante for a while on the affairs
of Florence, and predicted the fall of his brother Corso Donati.

The dazzling splendor of the angel of the seventh terrace warned them of his approach, and,
lightened of one more "P," Dante and his companions climbed to where two bands of spirits,
lascivious on earth, moved through paths of purifying flames, stopping as they passed to greet
each other, and singing penitential hymns. Here, Statius explained to Dante why the shades
of the sixth terrace were lean from want of food when they possessed no longer their physical
bodies. "After death the soul keeps its memory, intelligence, and will more active than before,
and as soon as it reaches either the banks of Acheron or the Tiber, a shade form is attached
to it which acquires the soul's semblance, and has every sense given it, even that of sight."

Guido Guinicelli, from out the flame-furnace, explained to Dante the punishments of the terrace:
"Thus are our base appetites burned out that we may enjoy future happiness," and Arnaud the
Troubadour, hating his past follies, weeping and singing, implored Dante's prayers. It was
only by telling him that the fire lay between him and Beatrice that Vergil prevailed on Dante
to walk into the flames, which, though they tortured him by the intensity of their heat, did
not consume even his garments. As they left the fire, the sun was setting, and they passed
the night on the steps of the next terrace, Statius and Vergil watching Dante as the goatherds
watch their flocks. In a dream the sleeping poet saw Leah, symbolical of the active life, in
contrast to her sister Rachel, of contemplative life. On waking, Vergil told him that he would
accompany him further, but not as a guide; henceforth his own free will must lead him. "Crowned,
mitred, now thyself thou 'lt rule aright."

Dense green were the heavenly woodlands of the terrestrial paradise; sweet were the bird songs,
as sweet the songs of the whispering foliage; and on the pleasant mead, beyond the dimpling
waters of a stream so small that three paces would span it, walked a beautiful lady, Matilda,
gathering flowers and singing an enchanting melody. At Dante's request, she came nearer, and
explained to him that God had created the terrestrial paradise from which man was banished
by his fault alone. To vex him it was raised to this height. Its atmosphere was not that of
the earth below, but given it from the free sphere of ether. Here every plant had its origin;
here each river had its virtue; Lethe destroyed the memory of sin; Eunoe restored to the mind
the memory of things good.

As they talked, Hosannas were heard, and in the greatest splendor appeared the Car of the Church
Triumphant. First came the seven golden candlesticks; following them, many people in resplendent
white garments; next, the four and twenty elders, lily crowned--the twenty-four books of the
Old Testament--singing to Beatrice "O blessed Thou!" Then four six-winged, many-eyed living
creatures described both by Ezekiel and John surrounded the massive car drawn by the Gryphon,
emblem of our Lord in his divine and human nature, white, gold, and vermilion-hued, part lion,
part eagle, whose wings pierced the heavens.

Three maidens, red, emerald, and white, the Theological Virtues, Faith, Hope, and Charity,
danced at the right wheel of the car; four clad in purple, Prudence, Justice, Fortitude, and
Temperance, walked at the left wheel. With them came two old men, Luke and Paul; then four
together, James, Peter, John, and Jude, and last an aged man walking in slumber, Saint John,
writer of the Revelation. These last were crowned with red roses and other tinted flowers.
With a crash as of thunder, the car stopped before Dante, and a hundred angels, chanting, showered
on it roses and lilies. In the midst of the shower, Beatrice descended, clad in a crimson robe,
with a green mantle and a white veil, and crowned with an olive wreath. Thrilling with his
ancient love, Dante turned to Vergil to sustain him, but Vergil was gone. As he looked again,
her eyes, less severe from the veil that enveloped her, were fixed on him as she rebuked him,
and he was sustained only by the compassion in the sweet voices of the angels, which soothed
him until the tears rained down his cheeks.

After her death, when she had arisen from flesh to spirit, Beatrice complained that her influence
was dimmed, and that he had sought such depths that she had been compelled to go to the gates
of hell to implore Vergil to bring him hither that he might learn his future sufferings if
he did not repent. As he answered her, blaming the things that had led him aside with joys
deceitful, he tried to gaze into her eyes, but stung with penitential thorns, fell senseless
to the ground. Matilda, who stood by, seized him and plunged him into the river Lethe, that
he might forget his past sin. Dripping, he was given to the four lovely maidens, who led him
before Beatrice that he might look into her eyes, fixed on the Gryphon. A thousand longings
held him fast while, "weary from ten years' thirsting," he gazed upon her lovely eyes, now
unveiled in their full splendor. Reproached at last by the seven virtues for his too intent
gaze, Dante watched the car move on to the Tree of Knowledge, to which its pole was attached
by the Gryphon. Dante, lulled to sleep by the hymn, was aroused by Matilda, who pointed out
to him the radiant Beatrice, sitting under a tree surrounded by the bright forms of her attendants.
The other attendants of the car had followed the Gryphon to the skies.

"Observe the car," said Beatrice, "and write what thou hast seen when thou returnest home."
As she spoke, the car was attacked in turn by the eagle of persecution, the fox of heresy,
and the dragon of Islamism; these driven away, it was disturbed by inward dissensions, the
alliance between Boniface and Philip the Fair.

