MANUAL FOR NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS AND PRIVATES OF INFANTRY OF THE ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES

1917

To be used by Engineer companies (dismounted) and Coast Artillery companies for Infantry instruction
and training.

WAR DEPARTMENT Document No. 574 OFFICE OF THE ADJUTANT GENERAL

                         WAR DEPARTMENT,
                         WASHINGTON, April14,1917.

This manual will also be used by Engineer companies (dismounted) and Coast Artillery companies
in connection with Infantry instruction and training prescribed by the War Department.

By ORDER OF THE SECRETARY OF WAR:

                                     H. L. SCOTT,
                          MajorGeneral,ChiefofStaff.

  OFFICIAL:
    H. P. McCAIN.
      TheAdjutantGeneral.

TABLE OF CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. MILITARY DISCIPLINE AND COURTESY
  Section 1. Oath of enlistment
  Section 2. Obedience
  Section 3. Loyalty
  Section 4. Discipline
  Section 5. Military courtesy
  Section 6. Saluting
  Section 7. Rules governing saluting
  Section 8. Courtesies in conversation
CHAPTER II. ARMS, UNIFORMS, AND EQUIPMENT
  Section 1. The rifle
  Section 2. Care of the rifle
  Section 3. Cleaning the rifle
  Section 4. Uniforms
  Section 5. The service kit
  Section 6. The surplus kit
  Section 7. Assembling Infantry equipment
CHAPTER III. RATIONS AND FORAGE
  Section 1. The ration
  Section 2. Individual cooking
  Section 3. The forage ration
CHAPTER IV. PERSONAL HYGIENE AND CARE OF THE FEET
CHAPTER V. EXTRACTS FROM INFANTRY DRILL REGULATIONS, 1911
  Section l. Definitions
  Section 2. Introduction
  Section 3. Orders, commands, and signals
  Section 4. School of the soldier
  Section 5. School of the squad
  Section 6. School of the company
  Section 7. Company inspection
  Section 8. Manual of tent pitching
  Section 9. Manual of the bayonet
CHAPTER VI. FIELD SERVICE
  Section 1. Principles of Infantry training
  Section 2. Combat
  Section 3. Patrolling
  Section 4. Advance guards
  Section 5. Rear guards
  Section 6. Flank guards
  Section 7. Outposts
  Section 8. Rifle trenches
CHAPTER VII. MARCHING AND CAMPING
  Section 1. Breaking camp and preparation for a march
  Section 2. Marching
  Section 3. Making camp
  Section 4. Camp services and duties
CHAPTER VIII. TARGET PRACTICE
  Section 1. Preliminary training in marksmanship
  Section 2. Sight adjustment
  Section 3. Table of sight corrections
  Section 4. Aiming
  Section 5. Battle sight
  Section 6. Trigger squeeze
  Section 7. Firing positions
  Section 8. Calling the shot
  Section 9. Coordination
  Section 10. Advice to riflemen
  Section 11. The course in small-arms firing
  Section 12. Targets
  Section 13. Pistol and revolver practice
CHAPTER IX. EXTRACTS PROM MANUAL OF INTERIOR GUARD DUTY
  Section 1. Introduction
  Section 2. Classification of interior guilds
  Section 3. Details and rosters
  Section 4. Commander of the guard
  Section 5. Sergeant of the guard
  Section 6. Corporal of the guard
  Section 7. Musicians of the guard
  Section 8. Orderlies and color sentinels
  Section 9. Privates of the guard
  Section 10. Orders for sentinels
  Section 11. Countersigns and paroles
  Section 12. Guard patrols
  Section 13. Watchmen
  Section 14. Compliments from guards
  Section 15. Prisoners
  Section 16. Guarding prisoners
  Section 17. Flags
  Section 18. Reveille and retreat gun
  Section 19. Guard mounting
  Section 20. Formal guard mounting for Infantry
  Section 21. Informal guard mounting for Infantry
  Section 22. Relieving the old guard
CHAPTER X. MAP READING AND SKETCHING
  Section 1. Military map reading
  Section 2. Sketching
CHAPTER XI. MESSAGE BLANKS
CHAPTER XII. SIGNALS AND CODES
CHAPTER XIII. FIRST-AID RULES
CHAPTER XIV. LAWS AND REGULATIONS
  Section 1. General provisions
  Section 2. The Army of the United States
  Section 3. Rank and precedence of officers and noncommissioned
             officers
  Section 4. Insignia of officers and noncommissioned officers
  Section 5. Extracts from the Articles of War
CHAPTER XV. ENGLISH-FRENCH VOCABULARY
APPENDIX.

Every soldier on enlisting in the Army takes upon himself the following obligation:

"I,--------, do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the
United States of America; that I will serve them honestly and faithfully against all their
enemies whomsoever; and that I will obey the orders of the President of the United States,
and the orders of the officers appointed over me according to the Rules and Articles of War."
(109th Article of War.)

SECTION 2. OBEDIENCE.

The very first paragraph in the Army Regulations reads:

"All persons in the military service are required to obey strictly and to EXECUTE PROMPTLY
the lawful orders of their superiors."

Obedience is the first and last duty of a soldier. It is the foundation upon which all military
efficiency is built. Without it an army becomes a mob, while with it a mob ceases to be a mob
and becomes possessed of much of the power of an organized force. It is a quality that is demanded
of every person in the Army, from the highest to the lowest. Each enlisted man binds himself,
by his enlistment oath, to obedience. Each officer, in accepting his commission, must take
upon himself the same solemn obligation.

Obey strictly and execute promptly the lawful orders of your superiors. It is enough to know
that the person giving the order, whether he be an officer, a noncommissioned officer, or a
private acting as such, is your lawful superior. You may not like him, you may not respect
him, but you must respect his position and authority, and reflect honor and credit upon yourself
and your profession by yielding to all superiors that complete and unhesitating obedience which
is the pleasure as well as the duty of every true soldier.

Orders must be STRICTLY carried out. It is not sufficient to comply with only that part which
suits you or which involves no work or danger or hardship. Nor is it proper or permissible,
when you are ordered to do a thing in a certain way or to accomplish a work in a definitely
prescribed manner, for you to obtain the same results by other methods.

Obedience must be PROMPT AND UNQUESTIONING. When any soldier (and this word includes officers
as well as enlisted men) receives an order, it is not for him to consider whether the order
is a good one or not, whether it would have been better had such an order never been given,
or whether the duty might be better performed by some one else, or at some other time, or in
some other manner. His duty is, first, to understand just what the order requires, and, second,
to proceed at once to carry out the order to the best of his ability. (Preface,Field ServiceRegulations.)

SECTION 3. LOYALTY.

But even with implicit obedience you may yet fail to measure up to that high standard of duty
which is at once the pride and glory of every true soldier. Not until you carry out the desires
and wishes of your superiors in a hearty, willing, and cheerful manner are you meeting all
the requirements of your profession. For an order is but the will of your superior, however
it may be expressed. Loyalty means that you are for your organization and its officers and
noncommissioned officers--not against them; that you always extend your most earnest and hearty
support to those in authority. No soldier is a loyal soldier who is a knocker or a grumbler
or a shirker. Just one man of this class in a company breeds discontent and dissatisfaction
among many others. You should, therefore, not only guard against doing such things yourself
but should discourage such actions among any of your comrades.

SECTION 4. DISCIPLINE.

"1.

"2. Military authority will be exercised with firmness, kindness, and justice. Punishments
must conform to law and follow offenses as promptly as circumstances will permit.

"3. Superiors are forbidden to injure those under their authority by tyrannical or capricious
conduct or by abusive language. While maintaining discipline and the thorough and prompt performance
of military duty, all officers, in dealing with enlisted men, will bear in mind the absolute
necessity of so treating them as to preserve their self-respect. Officers will keep in as close
touch as possible with the men under their command and will strive to build up such relations
of confidence and sympathy as will insure the free approach of their men to them for counsel
and assistance. This relationship may be gained and maintained without relaxation of the bonds
of discipline and with great benefit to the service as a whole.

"4.

"5. Deliberations or discussions among military men conveying praise or censure, or any mark
of approbation, toward others in the military service, and all publications relating to private
or personal transactions between officers are prohibited. Efforts to influence legislation
affecting the Army or to procure personal favor or consideration should never be made except
through regular military channels; the adoption of any other method by any officer or enlisted
man will be noted in the military record of those concerned," (ArmyRegulations.)

"The discipline which makes the soldier of a free country reliable in battle is not to be gained
by harsh or tyrannical treatment. On the contrary, such treatment is far more likely to destroy
than to make an army. It is possible to import instruction and give commands in such manner
and in such tone of voice as to inspire in the soldier no feeling but an intense desire to
obey, while the opposite manner and tone of voice can not fall to excite strong resentment
and a desire to disobey. The one mode or the other of dealing with subordinates springs from
a corresponding spirit in the breast of the commander. He who feels the respect which is due
to others can not fail to inspire in them regard for himself, while he who feels, and hence
manifests, disrespect toward others, especially his inferiors, can not fail to inspire hatred
against himself," (AddressofMaj.Gen.JohnM.Schofield totheUnitedStatesCorpsofCadets,Aug,11,1879.)

When, by long-continued drill and subordination, you have learned your duties, and obedience
becomes second nature, you have acquired discipline. It call not be acquired in a day or a
month. It is a growth. It is the habit of obedience. To teach this habit of obedience is the
main object of the close-order drill, and, if good results are to be expected, the greatest
attention must be paid to even the smallest details. The company or squad must be formed promptly
at the prescribed time--not a minute or even a second late. All must wear the exact uniform
prescribed and in the exact manner prescribed. When at attention there must be no gazing about,
no raising of hands, no chewing or spitting in ranks. The manual of arms and all movements
must be executed absolutely as prescribed. A drill of this kind teaches discipline. A careless,
sloppy drill breeds disobedience and insubordination. In other words, discipline simply means
efficiency.

SECTION 5. MILITARY COURTESY.

In all walks of life men who are gentlemanly and of good breeding are always respectful and
courteous to those about them. It helps to make life move along more smoothly. In civil life
this courtesy is shown by the custom of tipping the hat to ladies, shaking hands with friends.
and greeting persons with a nod or a friendly "Good morning," etc.

In the Army courtesy is just us necessary, and for the same reasons. It helps to keep the great
machine moving without friction. (Par.4,ArmyRegulations, 1913.)

One method of extending this courtesy is by saluting. When in ranks the question of what a
private should do is simple--he obeys any command that is given. It is when out of ranks that
a private must know how and when to salute.

SECTION 6. SALUTING.

In the old days the free men of Europe were all allowed to carry weapons, and when they met
each would hold up his right hand to show that he had no weapon in it and that they met as
friends. Slaves or serfs, however, were not allowed to carry weapons, and slunk past the free
men without making any sign. In this way the salute came to be the symbol or sign by which
soldiers (free men) might recognize each other. The lower classes began to imitate the soldiers
in this respect, although in a clumsy, apologetic way, and thence crept into civil life the
custom of raising the hand or nodding as one passed an acquaintance. The soldiers, however,
kept their individual salute, and purposely made it intricate and difficult to learn in order
that it could be acquired only by the constant training all real soldiers received. To this
day armies have preserved their salute, and when correctly done it is at once recognized and
never mistaken for that of the civilian. All soldiers should be careful to execute the salute
exactly as prescribed. The civilian or the imitation soldier who tries to imitate the military
salute invariably makes some mistake which shows that he is not a real soldier; he gives it
in an apologetic manner, he fails to stand or march at attention, his coat is unbuttoned or
hat on awry, or he falls to look the person saluted in the eye. There is a wide difference
in the method of rendering and meaning between the civilian salute as used by friends in passing,
or by servants to their employers, and the MILITARY SALUTE, the symbol and sign of the military
profession.

TO SALUTE WITH THE HAND, first assume the position of a soldier or march at attention. Look
the officer you are to salute straight in the eye. Continue to look the officer you are saluting
straight in the Eye and keep your hand in the position of salute until the officer acknowledges
the salute or until he has passed. Then drop the hand smartly to the side. The salute is given
with the right hand only.

TO SALUTE WITH THE RIFLE, bring the rifle to right shoulder arms if not already there. Look
the officer saluted in the eye. When the officer has acknowledged the salute or has passed,
drop the left hand smartly to the side and turn the head and eyes to the front. The rifle salute
may also be executed from the order or trail. See paragraph 94, Infantry Drill Regulations,
and paragraph 111, Cavalry Drill Regulations, 1916. Look the officer saluted in the eye. If
mounted, the hand is held behind the thigh, point a little to the right and front of the stirrup.

(For Cavalry.) TO SALUTE WITH THE SABER, bring the saber to carry saber if not already there,
carry the saber to the front with arm half extended until the thumb is about 6 inches in front
of the chin, the blade vertical, guard to the left, all four fingers grasping the grip, the
thumb extending along the back in the groove, the fingers pressing the back of the grip against
the heel of the hand. Look the officer saluted in the eye. When the officer has acknowledged
the salute or has passed, bring the saber down with the blade against the hollow of the right
shoulder, guard to the front, right hand at the hip, the third and fourth finger on the back
of the grip and the elbow back.

The pistol is not carried in the hand but in the holster, therefore when armed with the pistol
salute with the hand.

Always stand or march at attention before and during the salute. The hat should be on straight,
coat completely buttoned up, and hands out of the pockets.

SECTION 7. RULES GOVERNING SALUTING.

759. Soldiers actually at work do not cease work to salute an officer unless addressed by him.
When several officers in company are saluted all entitled to the salute shall return it.

(11) When an officer entitled to the salute passes in rear of a body of troops, it is brought
to attention while he is opposite the post of the commander.

(13) Soldiers at all times and in all situations pay the same compliments to officers of the
Army, Navy, Marine Corps, and Volunteers, and to officers of the National Guard as to officers
of their own regiment, corps, or arm of service. Troops under arms will salute us prescribed
in drill regulations.

760. If the person saluted is of a junior or equal grade, the unit need not be at attention
in the exchange of salutes.

(2) If two detachments or other commands meet, their commanders will exchange salutes, both
commands being at attention.

761. Troops on the service of security pay no compliments whatever.

762.

763. At parades and other ceremonies, under arms, the command shall render the prescribed salute
and shall remain in the position of salute while the National Anthem is being played; also
at retreat and during ceremonies when TO THE COLOR is played, if no band is present. If not
under arms, the organizations shall be brought to attention at the first note of the National
Anthem, TO THE COLOR or TO THE STANDARD, and the salute rendered by the officer or noncommissioned
officer in command as prescribed in regulations, as amended herein.

764.

When played by an army band, the National Anthem shall be played through without repetition
of any part not required to be repeated to make it complete.

765. (InfantryDrillRegulations, 1911.)

The national flag belonging to dismounted organizations is called a color; to mounted organizations,
a standard. An uncased color is one that is not in its waterproof cover.

Privates do not salute noncommissioned officers. Prisoners are not permitted to salute; they
merely come to attention if not actually at work. The playing of the National Anthem as a part
of a medley is prohibited in the military service.

SECTION 8. COURTESIES IN CONVERSATION.

In speaking to an officer, always stand at attention and use the word "Sir." Examples:

"Sir, Private Brown, Company B, reports as orderly."

"Sir, the first sergeant directed me to report to the captain."

(Question by an officer:) "To what company do you belong?"

(Answer:) "Company H, sir."

(Question by an officer:) "Has first call for drill sounded?"

(Answer:) "No, sir;" or "Yes; sir.; it sounded about five minutes ago."

(Question by an officer:) "Can you tell me, please, where Major Smith's tent is?"

(Answer:) "Yes; sir; I'll take you to it."

Use the third person in speaking to an officer. Examples:

"Does the Lieutenant wish," etc.

"Did the Captain send for me?"

In delivering a message from one officer to another, always use the form similar to the following:
"Lieutenant A presents his compliments to Captain B and states," etc. This form is not used
when the person sending or receiving the message is an enlisted man.

The rifle now used by the Army of the United States is the United States magazine rifle, model
of 1903, caliber .30.

It is 43.212 inches long and weighs 8.69 pounds.

The bayonet weighs 1 pound and the blade is 16 inches long.

The rifle is sighted for ranges up to 2,850 yards.

The maximum range, when elevated at an angle of 45 degrees, is 4,891 yards (389 yards less
than 3 miles).

The smooth bore of the rifle is 0.30 inch in diameter. It is then rifled 0.004 inch deep, making
the diameter from the bottom of one groove to the bottom of the opposite groove 0.308 inch.
The rifling makes one complete turn in each 10 inches of the barrel.

The accompanying plate shows the names of the principal parts of the rifle.

The only parts of a rifle that an enlisted man is permitted to take apart are the bolt mechanism
and the magazine mechanism. Learn how to do this from your squad leader, for you must know
how in order to keep your rifle clean. Never remove the hand guard or the trigger guard, nor
take the sights apart unless you have special permission from a commissioned officer.

The cartridge used for the rifle is called the .30-caliber model 1906 cartridge. There are
four types of cartridges.

The BALL CARTRIDGE consists of the brass case or shell, the primer, the charge of smokeless
powder, and the bullet. The bullet has a sharp point, is composed of a lead core and a jacket
of cupro nickel, and weighs 150 grains. The bullet of this cartridge, when fired from the rifle,
starts with an initial velocity at the muzzle of 2,700 feet per second.

The BLANK CARTRIDGE contains a paper cup instead of a bullet. It is dangerous up to 100 feet.
Firing with blank cartridges at a represented enemy at ranges less than 100 yards is prohibited.

The GUARD CARTRIDGE has a smaller charge of powder than the ball cartridge, and five cannelures
encircle the body of the shell at about the middle to distinguish it from the ball cartridge.
It is intended for use on guard or in riot duty, and gives good results up to 200 yards. The
range of 100 yards requires a sight elevation of 450 yards, and the range of 200 yards requires
all elevation of 650 yards.

The DUMMY CARTRIDGE is tin plated and the shell is provided with six longitudinal corrugations
and three circular holes. The primer contains no percussion composition. It is intended for
drill purposes to accustom the soldier to the operation of loading the rifle.

All cartridges are secured five in a clip to enable five cartridges to be inserted into the
magazine at one motion. Sixty ball cartridges in 12 clips are packed in a cloth bandoleer to
facilitate issue and carrying. When full the bandoleer weighs about 3.88 pounds. Bandoleers
are packed 20 in a box, or 1,200 rounds in all. The full box weighs 99 pounds.

SECTION 2. CARE OF THE RIFLE.

Every part of the rifle must be kept free from rust, dust, and dirt, A dirty or rusty rifle
is a sure sign that the soldier does not realize the value of his weapon, and that his training
is incomplete. The rifle you are armed with is the most accurate in the world. If it gets dirty
or rusty it will deteriorate in its accuracy and working efficiency, and no subsequent care
will restore it to its original condition. The most important part of the rifle to keep clean
is the bore. If, after firing, the bore is left dirty over night, it will be badly rusted in
the morning, therefore your rifle must be cleaned not later than the evening of the day on
which it was fired. The fouling of the blank cartridge is as dangerous to the bore as the fouling
of the ball cartridge.

Never attempt to polish any part that is blued. If rust appears, remove, by rubbing with oil.
Never use emery paper, pomade, or any preparation that cuts or scratches, to clean any part
of the rifle.

To beautify and preserve the stock rub with raw linseed oil. The use of any other preparation
on the stock is strictly forbidden.

Always handle your rifle with care. Don't throw it around as though it were a club. Don't stand
it up against anything so that it rests against the front sight. Don't leave a stopper or a
rag in the bore: it will cause rust to form at that point. It may also cause the gun barrel
to burst if a shot is fired before removing it.

Guard the sights and muzzle carefully from any blow that might injure them. The front sight
cover should always be on the rifle except when rifle is being fired. This is especially necessary
to protect the front sight while rifle is being carried in scabbard by a mounted man.

In coming to the "order arms," lower the piece gently to the ground.

When there is a cartridge in the chamber the piece is always carried locked. In this position
the safety lock should be kept turned fully to the right, since if it be turned to the left
nearly to the "ready" position and the trigger be pulled, the rifle will be discharged when
the safety lock is turned to the "ready" position at any time later on.

Cartridges can not be loaded from the magazine unless the bolt is drawn fully to the rear.
When the bolt is closed, or only partly open, the cut-off may be turned up or down as desired,
but if the bolt is drawn fully to the rear, the magazine can not be cut off unless the top
cartridge or the follower be pressed down slightly and the bolt be pushed forward so that the
cut-off may be turned "off."

In the case of a misfire, don't open the bolt immediately, as it may be a hangfire. Misfires
are often due to the fact that the bolt handle was not fully pressed down. Sometimes in pulling
the trigger the soldier raises the bolt handle without knowing it.

Unless otherwise ordered, arms will be unloaded before being taken to quarters or tents, or
as soon as the men using them are relieved from duty.

Keep the working parts oiled.

In every company there should be at least one copy of the Manual of the Ordnance Department
entitled "Description and Rules for the Management of the U. S, Magazine Rifle." This manual
gives the name and a cut of every part of the rifle, explains its use, shows how to take the
rifle apart and care for the same, and also gives much other valuable and interesting information.

SECTION 3. CLEANING THE RIFLE. The fouling which results from firing is of two kinds--one,
the products of combustion of the powder; the other, cupro-nickel scraped off (under the abrading
action of irregularities or grit in the bore). Powder fouling, because of its acid reaction,
is highly corrosive; that is, it will induce rust and must be removed. Metal fouling of itself
is inactive, but may cover powder fouling and prevent the action of cleaning agents until removed,
and when accumulated in noticeable quantities it reduces the accuracy of the rifle.

(b) Powder fouling may be readily removed by scrubbing with hot soda solution, but this solution
has no effect on the metal fouling of cupro-nickel. It is necessary, therefore, to remove all
metal fouling before assurance can be had that all powder fouling, has been removed and that
the bore may be safely oiled. It is merely a smear of infinitesimal thickness, easily removed
by solvents of cupro-nickel. However, due to pitting, the presence of dust, other abrasives,
or to accumulation, metal fouling may occur in clearly visible flakes or patches of much greater
thickness, much more difficult to remove.

(c) In cleaning the bore after firing it is well to proceed as follows: Swab out the bore with
soda solution (subparagraph j) to remove powder fouling. Examine the bore to see that there
are in evidence no patches of metal fouling which, if present, can be readily detected by the
naked eye, then swab out with the swabbing solution--a dilute metal-fouling solution (subparagraph
j). Swabbing should be continued, however, as long as the wiping patch is discolored by a bluish-green
stain. Normally a couple of minutes' work is sufficient. Dry thoroughly and oil.

(e) If patches of metal fouling are seen upon visual inspection of the bore the standard metal
fouling solution prepared as hereinafter prescribed must be used.

(f) After properly cleaning with either the swabbing solution or the standard solution, as
has just been described, the bore should be clean and safe to oil and put away, but as a measure
of safety a patch should always be run through the bore on the next day and the bore and wiping
patch examined to insure that cleaning has been properly accomplished. The bore should then
be oiled, as described above.

(h) A clean dry surface having been obtained, to prevent rust it is necessary to coat every
portion of this surface with a film of neutral oil. If the protection required is but temporary
and the arm is to be cleaned or fired in a few days, sperm oil may be used. This is easily
applied and easily removed, but has not sufficient body to hold its surface for more than a
few days. If rifles are to be prepared for storage or shipment, a heavier oil, such as cosmic,
must be used.

(i) In preparing arms for storage or shipment they should be cleaned with particular care,
using the metal-fouling solution as described above. Care should be taken, insured by careful
inspection on succeeding day or days, that the cleaning is properly done and all traces of
ammonia solution removed. The bore is then ready to be coated with cosmic. At ordinary temperatures
cosmic is not fluid. In order, therefore, to insure that every part of the surface is coated
with a film of oil the cosmic should be warmed. Apply the cosmic first with a brush; then,
with the breech plugged, fill the barrel to the muzzle, pour out the surplus, remove the breechblock,
and allow to drain. It is believed that more rifles are ruined by improper preparation for
storage than from any other cause. If the bore is not clean when oiled--that is, if powder
fouling is present or rust has started--a half inch of cosmic on the outside will not stop
its action, and the barrel will be ruined. Remember that the surface must be perfectly cleaned
before the heavy oil is applied. If the instructions as given above are carefully followed,
arms may be stored for years without harm.

(j) Preparation of solutions:

Sodasolution--This should be a saturated solution or sal soda (bicarbonate of soda). A strength
of at least 20 per cent is necessary. The spoon referred to in the following directions is
the model 1910 spoon issued in the mess outfit.

Sal soda, one-fourth pound, or four (4) heaping spoonfuls.

Water, 1 pint or cup, model of 1910, to upper rivets.

The sal soda will dissolve more readily in hot water.

Swabbingsolution.--Ammonium persulphate, 60 grains, one-half spoonful smoothed off.

Ammonia, 28 per cent, 6 ounces, or three-eighths of a pint, or 12 spoonfuls.

Water, 4 ounces, or one-fourth pint, or 8 spoonfuls.

Dissolve the ammonium persulphate in the water and add the ammonia. Keep in tightly corked
bottle; pour out only what is necessary at the time, and keep the bottle corked.

Standardmetalfoulingsolution.--Ammonium persulphate, 1 ounce, or 2 medium heaping spoonfuls.

Ammonium carbonate, 200 grains, or 1 heaping spoonful.

Powder the persulphate and carbonate together, dissolve in the water and add the ammonia; mix
thoroughly and allow to stand for one hour before using. It should be kept in a strong bottle,
tightly corked. The solution should not be used more than twice, and used solution should not
be mixed with unused solution, but should be bottled separately, The solution, when mixed,
should be used within 30 days! Care should be exercised in mixing and using this solution to
prevent injury to the rifle. An experienced noncommissioned officer should mix the solution
and superintend its use.

Neither of these ammonia solutions have any appreciable action on steel when not exposed to
the air, but if allowed to evaporate on steel they attack it rapidly. Care should, therefore,
be taken that none spills on the mechanism and that the barrel is washed out promptly with
soda solution. The first application of soda solution removes the greater portion of the powder
fouling and permits a more effective and economical use of the ammonia solution. These ammonia
solutions are expensive and should be used economically.

(m) A cleaning rack should be provided for every barrack. Rifles should always be cleaned from
the breach, thus avoiding possible injury to the rifling at the muzzle, which would affect
the shooting adversely. If the bore for a length of 6 inches at the muzzle is perfect, a minor
injury near the chamber will have little effect on the accuracy of the rifle. The rifle should
be cleaned as soon as the firing for the day is completed. The fouling is easier to remove
then, and if left longer it will corrode the barrel.

(n) The principles as outlined above apply equally well for the care of the barrel of the automatic
pistol. Special attention should be paid to cleaning the chamber of the pistol, using the soda
solution. It has been found that the chamber pits readily if it is not carefully cleaned, with
the result that the operation of the pistol is made less certain." (Par.134,SmallArms FiringManual,1913.)

SECTION 4. UNIFORMS.

Uniforms and clothing issued to enlisted men must not be sold, pawned, loaned, given away,
lost or damaged through neglect or carelessness. Any soldier who violates this rule may be
tried by a military court and punished.

All uniforms and articles of clothing issued to enlisted men, whether or not charged on their
clothing allowance, remain the property of the United States and do not become the property
of the soldier either before or after discharge from the service. Under the law a soldier honorably
discharged from the Army of the United States is authorized to wear his uniform from the place
of his discharge to his home within three months after the date of such discharge. To wear
the uniform after three months from the date of such discharge renders such person liable to
fine or imprisonment, or both.

The dress uniform (the blue uniform) consists of the dress cap, dress coat, dress trousers,
and russet-leather shoes. The straight, standing, military, white linen collar, showing no
opening in front, is always worn with this uniform, with not to exceed one-half inch showing
above the collar of the coat. Turndown, piccadilly, or roll collars are not authorized.

When under arms, white gloves and the garrison belt (or russet-leather belt and cartridge box)
are worn.

The full-dress uniform is the same as the dress uniform, with the breast cord added.

The service uniform is either cotton (summer) or woolen (winter) olive drab.

For duty in the field it consists of the service hat, with cord sewed on, service coat or sweater,
service breeches, olive-drab flannel shirt, leggings, russet-leather shoes, and identification
tag. In cold weather olive-drab woolen gloves are worn; at other times, no gloves.

When not in the field, the service cap is worn instead of the campaign hat.

Wear the exact uniform prescribed by your commanding officer, whether you are on duty or off duty.

Never wear a mixed uniform, as, for instance, a part of the service uniform with the blue uniform.

Never wear any part of the uniform with civilian clothes. It is very unsoldierly, for example,
to wear a civilian overcoat over the uniform or to wear the uniform overcoat over a civilian suit.

Keep the uniform clean and neat and in good repair.

Grease spots and dust and dirt should be removed as soon as possible.

Rips and tears should be promptly mended.

Missing buttons and cap and collar ornaments should be promptly replaced.

There is but one correct and soldierly way to wear the cap. Never wear it on the back or side
of the head.

The service hat should be worn in the regulation shape, peaked, with four indentations, and
with hat cord sewed on. Do not cover it with pen or pencil mark.

Never appear outside your room or tent with your coat or olive-drab shirt unbuttoned or collar
of coat unhooked. Chevrons, service stripes, and campaign medals and badges are a part of the
uniform and must be worn as prescribed.

When coats are not worn with the service uniform olive-drab shirts are prescribed.

Suspenders must never be worn exposed to view.

Never appear in breeches without leggings.

Leather leggings should be kept polished. Canvas leggings should be scrubbed when dirty.

Russet-leather (tan) shoes should be kept clean and polished. The overcoat when worn must be
buttoned throughout and the collar hooked. When the belt is worn it will be worn outside the
overcoat.

SECTION 5. THE SERVICE KIT.

The service kit is composed of two parts--(a) the field kit, which includes everything the
soldier wears or carries with him in the field, and (b) the surplus kit.

The field kit consists of--

  (a) The clothing worn on the person.
  (b) Arms and equipment, consisting of--

FOR EACH ENLISTED MAN.[1]

  1 first-aid packet.
  1 pouch for first-aid packet.
  1 canteen.
  1 canteen cover.
  1 can, bacon.
  1 can, condiment.
  1 pack carrier (except individually mounted men).
  1 haversack (except individually mounted men).
  1 meat can.
  1 cup.
  1 knife.
  1 fork.
  1 spoon.
  1 shelter tent half.
  1 shelter tent pole (when issued).
  5 shelter tent pins.
  1 identification tag with tape.

[Footnote 1: New model equipment, 1910. The old model equipment is the same except omit canteen
cover, bacon and condiment cans, and pack carrier, and add 1 cartridge-belt suspenders, 1 canteen
strap, and 1 blanket-roll straps, set.]

FOR EACH ENLISTED MAN ARMED WITH THE RIFLE.

  1 United States magazine rifle, caliber .30.
  1 bayonet.
  1 bayonet scabbard.
  1 gun sling.
  1 rifle cartridge belt.

FOR EACH EACH ENLISTED MAN ARMED WITH THE PISTOL.

  1 pistol, caliber .45.
  1 pistol holster.
  1 magazine pocket, double, web.
  2 extra magazines.
  1 pistol belt (except for men armed also with the rifle).

FOR EACH ENLISTED MAN, INDIVIDUALLY MOUNTED, IN ADDITION TO THE ABOVE.

  1 rifle scabbard (if armed with rifle).
  1 spurs, pair.
  1 spur straps, pair.
  1 set of horse equipment.

(c) Extra clothing and articles to be carried on the soldier or on the packed saddle.

  1 blanket.
  1 comb.
  1 drawers, pair,
  1 poncho (dismounted men),
  1 slicker (mounted men).
  1 soak, cake.
  2 stockings, pair.
  1 toothbrush.
  1 towel.
  1 undershirt.
  1 housewife (for one man of each squad).

(d) Ammunition, consisting of--

  90 rounds ball cartridges, caliber .30 (old model belt).
 100 rounds ball cartridges, caliber .30 (new model belt).

(e) Rations, consisting of--

  1 or 2 reserve rations (bacon, hard bread, coffee, sugar, and
  salt).

(f) Intrenching tools, consisting of--

  2 pick mattocks, per squad.
  1 bolo or hand axe, per squad.
  4 shovels, intrenching, per squad.
  1 wire cutter, per squad.

SECTION 6. THE SURPLUS KIT.

The surplus kit for each man consists of--

  1 breeches, pair.
  1 drawers, pair.
  1 shirt, olive drab.
  1 shoes, russet leather, pair.
  2 stockings, pair.
  1 undershirt.
  1 shoe laces, extra, pair.

Each surplus kit bag contains 1 jointed cleaning rod and case.

Squad leaders are responsible that surplus kit bags are kept in order and fully packed in the
field.[2] Men are allowed access to them for the purpose of making substitutions.

[Footnote 2: In campaign or simulated campaign, when an organization is restricted to its prescribed
field-train transportation, surplus kits, overcoats, and sweaters are stored on the line of
communications or other designated place with the permanent camp equipment of the organization.]

The surplus kits are packed in surplus kit bags, one for each squad, one for sergeants, and
one for cooks and buglers.

The kit of each man will be packed as follows:

Stockings to be rolled tightly, one pair in the toe of each shoe; shoes placed together, heels
at opposite ends, soles outward, wrapped tightly in underwear, and bundle securely tied around
the middle by the extra pair of the shoe laces, each bundle to be tagged with the company number
of the owner. These individual kits will be packed in the surplus kit bag in two layers of
four kits each, the breeches and olive drab shirts to be neatly folded find packed on the top
and sides of the layers, the jointed cleaning rod and case, provided for each squad, being
attached by the thongs on the inside of the bag.

When overcoats or sweaters are not prescribed to be worn on the person they will be collected
into bundles of convenient size and secured by burlap or other suitable material, or will be
boxed. They will be marked ready for equipment to be forwarded when required.

SECTION 7. ASSEMBLING INFANTRY EQUIPMENT.[3]

[Footnote 3: Since these instructions were written 1 drawers and 1 undershirt have been added
to the field kit. Place them in pack when carried, otherwise in haversack.]

TO ASSEMBLE THE FULL EQUIPMENT.

WITH RATIONS.

Place the assembled equipment on the ground, suspender side of haversack down, pockets of cartridge
belt up, haversack spread put, inside flap and pack carrier extended their full length to the rear.

Place three cartons of hard bread in the center of the haversack body, the lower one on the
line of attachment of the inside flap; lay the remaining carton of hard bread, the condiment
can and the bacon can on the top of these, the condiment can and the bacon can at the bottom,
top of the bacon can to the front; the socks and toilet articles are rolled, towel on the outside,
into a bundle of the same approximate dimensions as a carton of hard bread, and are placed
in front of the two rows thus formed.

The inside flap of the haversack is folded over these articles, the end of the flap being turned
in so that the flap, thus shortened, extends about 2 inches beyond the top of the upper row;
the sides of the haversack are folded over the sides of the rows; the upper binding straps
are passed through the loops on the outside of the inside flap, each strap through the loop
opposite the point of its attachment to the haversack body, and fastened by means of the buckle
on the opposite side, the strap being passed through the opening in the buckle next to its
attachment, over the center bar, and back through the opening of the buckle away from its attachment;
the strap is pulled tight to make the fastening secure; the outer flap of the haversack is
folded over and fastened by means of the lower haversack binding strap and the buckle on the
inside of the outer flap; the strap is pulled tight, drawing the outer flap snugly over the
filled haversack.

The haversack is now packed and the carrier is ready for the reception of the pack.

If one reserve ration and one emergency ration are carried in lieu of two reserve rations,
the haversack is packed in the manner described above, except that two cartons of hard bread
and the bacon can form the bottom layer, the bacon can on the bottom; the condiment can, the
emergency ration, and the toilet articles form the top layer.

If one emergency ration is carried in addition to the two reserve rations, it is packed on
top of the top layer.

TO MAKE THE PACK: Spread the shelter half on the ground and fold in the triangular ends, forming
an approximate square from the half, the guy on the inside; fold the poncho once across its
shortest dimension, then twice across its longest dimension, and lay it in the center of the
shelter half; fold the blanket as described for the poncho and place it on the latter; place
the shelter tent pins in the folds of the blanket, in the center and across the shortest dimension;
fold the edges of the shelter half snugly over the blanket and poncho and, beginning on either
of the short sides, roll tightly and compactly. This forms the pack.

TO ASSEMBLE THE PACK: Place the pack in the pack carrier and grasp the lower suspension rings,
one in each hand; place the right knee against the bottom of the roll; pull the carrier down
and force the pack up close against the bottom of the packed haversack; without removing the
knee, pass the lower carrier binding strap over the pack and secure it by means of the opposite
buckle; in a similar manner secure the lower haversack binding strap and then the upper carrier
binding strap.

Engage the snap hook on the pack suspenders in the lower suspension rings.

The equipment is now assembled and packed as prescribed for the full equipment.

TO MAKE UP THE PACK: Fold the poncho, blanket, and shelter half, and make up the pack as heretofore
prescribed, except that the condiment and bacon can (the former inside the latter) and the
toilet articles and socks are rolled in the pack. In this case the pack is rolled, beginning
on either of the long sides instead of the short sides, as heretofore described.

TO ASSEMBLE THE PACK: Place the pack on the haversack and pack carrier, its upper end on a
line with the upper edge of the haversack body: bind it to the haversack and carrier by means
of the haversack and pack binding straps; fold down the outer flap on the haversack and secure
it by means of the free end of the middle haversack binding strap and the buckle provided on
the underside of the flap; engage the snap hooks of the park suspenders in the lower suspension
rings.

The equipment is now packed and assembled.

TO ADJUST THE EQUIPMENT TO THE SOLDIER: Put on the equipment, slipping the arms one at a time
through the pack suspenders as through the sleeves of a coat; by means of the adjusting buckles
on the belt suspenders raise or lower the belt until it rests well down over the hip bones
on the sides and below the pit of the abdomen in front; raise or lower it in rear until the
adjusting strap lies smoothly across the small of the back; by means of the adjusting buckles
on the pack suspenders, raise or lower the load on the back until the top of the haversack
is on a level with the top of the shoulders, the pack suspenders, from their point of attachment
to the haversack to the line of tangency with the shoulder, being horizontal. Thelatterisabsolutely
essentialtotheproperadjustmentoftheload.

The position of the belt is the same whether filled or empty.

TO ASSEMBLE THE FULL EQUIPMENT LESS THE PACK.

WITH RATIONS.

Detach the carrier from the haversack; place the rest of the equipment on the ground as heretofore
described; place the four cartons of hard bread, the bacon can, the condiment can, and the
toilet articles in one row in the middle of the haversack body, the toilet articles at the
top, the bacon can at the bottom, top to the front, the row extending from top to bottom of
the haversack; fold the inside flap over the row thus formed; fold the sides of the haversack
up and over; pass the three haversack binding straps through the loops on the inside flap and
secure by means of the buckles on the opposite side of the haversack; pass the lower haversack
binding strap through the small buttonhole in the lower edge of the haversack, fold the outer
flap of the haversack over the whole, and secure by means of the buckle on its underside and
the lower haversack binding strap.

Pass the haversack suspension rings through the contiguous buttonholes in the lower edge of
the haversack and engage the snap hooks on the ends of the pack suspenders.

TO ADJUST THE EQUIPMENT TO THE SOLDIER: Put on the equipment as prescribed for the full equipment.
Adjust the cartridge belt as prescribed for the full equipment. Adjust the pack suspenders
so that the top of the haversack is on a level with the top of the shoulders.

TO DISCARD THE PACK WITHOUT REMOVING THE EQUIPMENT FROM THE BODY.

Unsnap the pack suspenders from the suspension rings and snap them into the eyelets on top
of the belt and in rear of the real pockets of the right and left pocket sections; support
the bottom of the pack with the left hand and with the right hand grasp the coupling strap
at its middle and withdraw first one end, then the other; press down gently on the pack with
both hands and remove it. When the pack has been removed, lace the coupling strap into the
buttonholes along the upper edge of the carrier. Adjust the pack suspenders.

OLD MODEL EQUIPMENT.

To roll the blanket roll.--See chapter V, section 8, paragraph 747.

CHAPTER III.

RATIONS AND FORAGE.

SECTION 1. THE RATION.

A ration is the allowance of food for one man for one day.

In the field there are three kinds of rations issued, as follows:

The garrisonration is intended to be issued in kind whenever possible. The approximate net
weight of this ration is 4.5 pounds.

The reserveration is the simplest efficient ration, and constitutes the reserve carried for
field service. It consists of--

                                    Ounces.
  Bacon                              12
  Hard bread                         16
  Coffee, roasted and ground          1.12
  Sugar                               2.4
  Salt                                 .16
                                     -----
  Approximate net weight   pounds     2

The fieldration is the ration prescribed in orders by the commander of the field forces. It
consists of the reserve ration, in whole or in part, supplemented by articles requisitioned
or purchased locally or shipped from the rear.

In campaign a command carries as a part of its normal equipment the following rations:

  (a) On each man: At least two days' reserve rations.
  (b) In the ration section of the field train, for each man:
      Two days' field and one day's reserve rations.
  (c) In the supply train: Two days' field rations.

In addition to the foregoing, commanders will require each man on the march to carry the unconsumed
portion of the day's ration issued the night before for the noonday meal. Reserve rations are
consumed only in case of extreme necessity, when other supplies are not available. They are
not to be consumed or renewed without an express order from the officer in command of the troops
who is responsible for the provision of supplies, namely, the division commander or other independent-detachment
commander. Every officer within the limits of his command is held responsible for the enforcement
of this regulation. Reserve rations consumed must he replaced at the first Opportunity.

SECTION 2. INDIVIDUAL COOKING.

Sometimes rations for several days are issued to the soldier at one time, and in such cases
you should be very careful to so use the rations that they will last you the entire period.
If you stuff yourself one day, or waste your rations, you will have to starve later on.

Generally the cooking for the company will be done by the company cook, but sometimes every
soldier will have to prepare his own meals, using only his field mess kit for the purpose.

The best fire for individual cooking is a small, clear one, or, better yet, a few brisk coals.
To make such a fire, first gather a number of sticks about 1 inch in diameter. These should
be dry. Dead limbs adhering to a tree are dryer than those picked up from the ground. Split
some of these and shave them up into kindling. Dig a trench in the ground, laid with the wind,
about a foot long, 4 inches wide, and 6 inches deep. Start the fire in this trench gradually,
piling on the heavier wood as the fire grows. When the trench is full of burning wood, allow
it a few minutes to burn down to the coals and stop blazing high. Then rest the meat can and
cup over the trench and start cooking. Either may be supported, if necessary, with green sticks.
If you can not scrape a trench in the soil, build one up out of rocks or with two parallel logs.

The following recipes have been furnished from the office of the Quartermaster General, United
States Army:

Coffee.--Fill the cup two-thirds full of water and bring to a boil. Add one heaping spoonful
of coffee and stir well, adding one spoonful of sugar if desired. Boil five minutes and then
set it to the side of the fire to simmer for about 10 minutes. Then, to clear the coffee, throw
in a spoonful or two of cold water. This coffee is of medium strength and is within the limit
of the ration if made but twice a day.

Cocoa.--Take two-thirds of a cupful of water, bring to a boil, add one heaping spoonful of
cocoa, and stir until dissolved. Add one spoonful of sugar, if desired, and boil for five minutes.

Chocolate.--Take two-thirds of a cupful of water, bring to a boil, add a piece of chocolate
about the size of a hickory nut, breaking or cutting it into small pieces and stirring until
dissolved. Add one spoonful of sugar, if desired, and boil for five minutes.

Tea.--Take two-thirds of a cupful of water, bring to a boll, add one-half of a level spoonful
of tea, and then let it stand or "draw" for three minutes. If allowed to stand longer the tea
will get bitter, unless separated from the ten leaves.

MEATS.

Freshmeat (to fry).--To fry, a small amount of grease (one to two spoonfuls) is necessary.

Freshmeat (to stew).--Cut into chunks from one-half inch to one inch cubes.

VEGETABLES.

Onions (fried).--Same as potatoes.

Potatoes (baked).--Take two medium-sized potatoes (about, one-half pound) or one large one
cut in half.

Cannedtomatoes.--One 2-pound can is generally sufficient for five men.

Rice.--Take about two-thirds of a cupful of water, bring to a boll, add four heaping spoonfuls
of rice, and boil until the grains are soft enough to be easily mashed between the fingers
(about 20 minutes). Add two pinches of salt and, after stirring, pour off the water and empty
rice out on meat can. Bacon grease or sugar may be added.

Cornmeal,finehominy,oatmeal.--Take about one-third of a cupful of water, bring to a boil, add
4 heaping spoonfuls of the meal or hominy, and boil about 20 minutes. Then add about two pinches
of salt and stir well.

Driedbeansandpeas.--Put 4 heaping spoonfuls in about two-thirds of a cupful of water and boil
until soft. This generally takes from three to four hours. Add one pinch of salt. About half
an hour before the beans are done add one slice of bacon.

HOT BREADS. Fry from 5 to 7 minutes longer, or until by examination it is found to be done.

Hoecake.--Hoecake is made exactly the same as flapjacks by substituting cornmeal for flour.

SECTION 3. THE FORAGE RATION. To each animal 3 pounds of bran may be issued in lieu of that
quantity of grain.

"The commanding officer may, in his discretion, vary the proportions of the components of the
ration (1 pound of grain, 1-1/2 pounds of hay, and 2 pounds of straw being taken as equivalents),
and in the field may substitute other recognized articles of forage obtained locally, the variation
or the substitution not to exceed the money value of the components of the ration at the contract
rates in effect at the time of change.

"1078,ArmyRegulations.--Where grazing is practicable, or when little work is required of the
animals, commanding officers will reduce the forage ration. When, on the other hand, conditions
demand it, they are authorized to increase the ration, not in excess, however, of savings made."

In the field the authorized allowances must often be reduced and supplemented by grazing and
other kinds of food, such as green forage, beans, peas, rice, palay, wheat, and rye. Wheat
and rye should be crushed and fed sparingly (about one-fourth of the allowance). For unshelled
corn, add about one-quarter weight.

On the march the grain ration is the only forage carried. It consists of 12 pounds of grain
for each horse and 9 pounds of grain for each mule. Recourse must be had to grazing if it is
not possible to procure long forage in the country traversed.

In campaign a command carries as a part of its normal equipment the following forage:

(a) For each draft animal: On each vehicle a reserve of one day's grain ration for its draft
animals.

(b) On animals and vehicles: A portion of their grain ration issued the night before, for a
noonday feed.

(c) In the ration section of the field train, for each animal, two day's grain rations.

(d) In supply train of an Infantry division two days' grain rations, and of a Cavalry division
one days' grain ration.

CHAPTER IV.

PERSONAL HYGIENE AND CARE OF THE FEET.

PERSONAL HYGIENE.

History shows that in almost every war many more men die of disease than from wounds received
in battle. Much of this disease is preventable and is due either to the ignorance or carelessness
of the person who has the disease or of other persons about him. It is a terrible truth that
one man who violates any of the great rules of health may be the means of killing many more
of his comrades than are killed by the bullets of the enemy.

It is therefore most important that every soldier should learn how to take care of his health
when in the field and that he should also insist that his comrades do not violate any of the
rules prescribed for this purpose.

A great many diseases are due to germs, which are either little animals or little plants so
very small that they can only be seen by aid of the microscope. All diseases caused by germs
are "catching." All other diseases are not "catching."

There are only five ways of catching disease:

(a) Getting certain germs on the body by touching some one or something which has them on it.
Thus, one may catch venereal diseases, smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, chicken pox, mumps,
bolls, body lice, ringworm, barber's itch, dhopie itch, and some other diseases. Wounds are
infected in this manner.

(b) Breathing in certain germs which float in the air. In this way one may catch pneumonia,
consumption, influenza, diphtheria, whooping cough, tonsilitis, spinal meningitis, measles,
and certain other diseases.

(c) Taking certain germs in through the mouth in eating or drinking. Dysentery, cholera, typhoid
fever, diarrhea, and intestinal worms may be caught in this manner,

(d) Having certain germs injected into the body by the bites of insects, such as mosquitoes,
fleas, and bedbugs. Malaria, yellow fever, dengue fever, and bubonic plague may be caught in
this way.

(e) Inheriting the germ from one's parents.

Persons may have these germs sometimes without apparently being sick with any disease. Such
persons and persons who are sick with the diseases are a great source of danger to others about
them. Germs which multiply in such persons are found in their urine and excretions from the
bowels; in discharges from ulcers and abscesses; in the spit or particles coughed or sneezed
into the air; in the perspiration or scales from the skin; and in the blood sucked up by biting
insects.

Those who have taken care of their health and who have not become weakened by bad habits, exposure,
and fatigue are not only less liable to catch disease, but are more apt to recover when taken sick.

Knowing all these things, the soldier can understand the reasons for the following rules and
how important it is that they should be carried out by each and every person:

Stay away from persons having "catching" diseases.

It you have any disease, don't try to cure it yourself, but go to the surgeon. Insist that
other soldiers do likewise.

Typhoid fever is one of the most dangerous and common camp diseases. Modern medicine has, however,
discovered an effective preventative for this disease in the typhoid prophylactic, which renders
the person immune from typhoid fever. The treatment consists in injecting into the arm a preventative
serum. The injection is given three times at 10-day intervals.

Association with lewd women is dangerous. It may result in disabling you for life. It is the
cause of a disease (syphilis) which may be transmitted by a parent to his children. Soldiers
with venereal diseases should not use basins or toilet articles used by others, as the germs
of these diseases if gotten into the eye very often cause blindness. Likewise, if they use
the same drinking cup used by others they may give others the disease. They should promptly
report their trouble to the surgeon, that they may receive the best medical advice and attention.

Should a soldier expose himself to infection by having intercourse with an unknown woman, he
should report as soon as possible afterwards to the regimental infirmary for prophylactic treatment,
which, if taken within a few hours after intercourse, will prevent to a large degree the liability
of contracting any disease.

Cooked germs are dead and therefore harmless. Water, even when clear, may be alive with deadly
germs. Therefore, when the conditions are such that the commanding officer orders all drinking
water to be boiled, be careful to live up to this order.

Use the latrines and don't go elsewhere to relieve yourself. In open latrines cover your deposit
with dirt, as it breeds files and may also be full of germs.

Flies carry germs from one place to another. Therefore see that your food and mess kit are
protected from them.

All slops find scraps of food scattered about camp soon produce bad odors and draw flies. Therefore
do your part toward keeping the camp free from disease by carefully depositing such refuse
in the pits or cans used for this purpose.

Urinate only in the latrines, or in the cans set out for this purpose, never on the ground
around camp, because it not only causes bad smells but urine sometimes contains the germs of
"catching" diseases.

Soapy water thrown on the ground soon produces bad odors. Therefore in camps of several days'
duration this water should be thrown in covered pits or in cans used for this purpose.

As certain mosquitoes can transmit malaria and yellow fever, use your mosquito bar for this
reason as well as for personal comfort.

Keep your mouth clean by brushing your teeth once or twice a day. It helps to prevent the teeth
from decaying. Decayed teeth cause toothache. They also lead one to swallow food without properly
chewing it, and this leads to stomach troubles of various kinds. Food left around and between
the teeth is bad for the teeth and forms good breeding places for germs.

Keep the skin clean. Through the pores of the skin the body gets rid of much waste and poisonous
matter. Therefore remove this and keep the pores open by bathing once every day, if possible.
If water is scarce, rub the body over with a wet towel. If no water is at hand, take a dry
rub. Wash carefully the armpits, between the legs, and under the foreskin, as this will prevent
chafing.

The skin protects the sensitive parts underneath from injury and helps to keep out germs. Therefore
when blisters are formed don't tear off the skin. Insert a needle under the skin a little distance
back from the blister and push it through to the opposite side. Press out the liquid through
the holes thus formed. Heat the needle red hot first, with a match or candle, to kill the germs.

When the skin is broken (in cuts and wounds) keep the opening covered with a bandage to keep
out germs and dirt; otherwise the sore may fester. Pus is always caused by germs.

Keep your hair short. Long hair and a long beard in the field generally means a dirty head
and a dirty face and favors skin diseases, lice, and dandruff.

Don't let any part of the body become chilled, as this very often is the direct cause of diarrhea,
dysentery, pneumonia, rheumatism, and other diseases.

Wet clothes may be worn while marching or exercising without bad results; but there is great
danger if one rests in wet clothing, as the body may become chilled.

Don't sit or lie or sleep directly on damp ground, as this is sure to chill the body.

When hot or perspiring or when wearing damp clothes, don't remain where a breeze can strike
you. You are sure to become chilled.

Every day, if possible, hang your blanket and clothing out to air in the sun; shake or beat
them with a small stick. Germs and vermin don't like this treatment, but damp, musty clothing
suits them very well. Wash your shirts, underwear, and socks frequently. The danger of blood
poisoning from a wound is greatly increased if the bullet passes through dirty clothes.

Ditch your tent as soon as you can, particularly a shelter tent, even if you camp for one night
only. Otherwise a little rain may ruin a whole night's rest.

Always prepare your bed before dark. Level off the ground and scrape out a little hollow for
your hips. Get some straw or dry grass if possible. Green grass or branches from trees are
better than nothing. Sleep on your poncho. This keeps the dampness from coming up from the
ground and chilling the body. Every minute spent in making a good bed means about an hour's
good rest later on.

Avoid the food and drink found for sale in the cheap stands about camp. The quality is generally
bad, and it is often prepared in filthy places by very dirty persons.

The use of intoxicating liquor is particularly dangerous in the field. Its excessive use, even
at long intervals, breaks down one's system. Drinking men are more apt to get sick and less
liable to get well than are their more sober comrades. If alcohol is taken at all, it is best
after the work of the day is over. It should never be taken when the body is exposed to severe
cold, as it diminishes the resistance of the body. Hot tea or coffee is much preferable under
these circumstances.

CARE OF THE FEET.

A soldier can not march with sore feet, and marching is the main part of an infantryman's daily
duty in the field. All soldiers should be familiar with the proper methods of caring for the
feet. Sore feet are generally due to carelessness, neglect, or ignorance on the part of the
soldier.

The most important factor in the care of the feet and the marching ability of the soldier is
the shoe. Civilian shoes, particularly light, patent leather, or low shoes, are sure to cause
injury and in time will ruin a man's foot. Only the marching shoe issued by the Quartermaster
Corps should be worn, and they must be properly fitted to the individual. It will not suffice
to order a marching shoe of the same size as one's ordinary civilian shoes, for it must be
remembered that a soldier may have to march many miles daily over rough roads and carrying
a heavy pack. The pack itself causes the foot to spread out to a larger size, and the rough
roads give so much exercise to the muscles of the feet that they swell greatly through the
increased blood supply. (For directions as to measuring the foot for the marching shoe see
General Order No. 26, War Department, 1912, a copy of which should be on hand in each company.)

Do not start out on a march wearing new shoes. This is a frequent cause of sore feet. New shoes
should be properly broken in before beginning a march by wearing them for several hours daily
for a week before the march, and they should be adapted to the contours of the feet by stretching
them with shoe stretchers with adjustable knobs to take the pressure off painful corns and
bunions. Such stretchers are issued by the Quartermaster Corps, and there should be one or
more pair in every company of infantry. Should this be impracticable, then the following is
suggested:

The soldier stands in his new shoes in about 2-1/2 inches of water for about five minutes until
the leather is thoroughly pliable and moist; he should then walk for about an hour on a level
surface, letting the shoes dry on his feet, to the irregularities of which the leather is thus
molded in the same way as it was previously molded over the shoe last. On taking the shoes
off a very little neat's-foot oil should be rubbed into the leather to prevent its hardening
and cracking.

If it is desired to waterproof shoes at any time, a considerable amount of neat's-foot oil
should be rubbed into the leather. Waterproof leather causes the feet of some men to perspire
unduly and keeps them constantly soft.

Light woolen or heavy woolen socks will habitually be worn for marching. Cotton socks will
not be worn unless specifically ordered by the surgeon. The socks will be large enough to permit
free movement of the toes, but not so loose as to permit of wrinkling. Darned socks, or socks
with holes in them, will not be worn in marching.

Until the feet have hardened they should be dusted with foot powder, which can be obtained
at the regimental infirmary, before each day's march. Clean socks should be worn daily.

As soon as possible after reaching camp after a day of marching the feet should be washed with
soap and water, and the soldier should put on a dry pair of socks and his extra pair of shoes
from his surplus kit. If the skin is tender, or the feet perspire, wash with warm salt water
or alum water, but do not soak the feet a long time, as this, although very comforting at the
time, tends to keep them soft. Should blister's appear on the feet, prick and evacuate them
by pricking at the lower edge with a pin which has been passed through the flame of a match
and cover them with zinc oxide plaster applied hot. This plaster can be obtained on request
at the regimental infirmary. If serious abrasions appear on the feet, or corns, bunions, and
ingrowing nails cause trouble, have your name placed on sick report and apply to the surgeon
for treatment. Cut the toe nails square (fairly close in the middle, but leaving the sides
somewhat longer), as this prevents ingrowing nails.

CHAPTER V.

EXTRACTS FROM INFANTRY DRILL REGULATIONS.

UNITED STATES ARMY, 1911.

[Corrected to April 15, 1917.]

SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS.

BASE: The element on which a movement is regulated.

BATTLE SIGHT: The position of the rear sight when the leaf is laid down.

CENTER: The middle point or element of a command.

COLUMN: A formation in which the elements are placed one behind another.

DISTANCE: Space between elements in the direction of depth.

HEAD: The leading element of a column.

LEFT: The left extremity or element of a body of troops.

LINE: A formation in which the different elements are abreast of each other.

RANK: A line of men placed side by side.

RIGHT: The right extremity or element of a body of troops.

PART I.--DRILL.

SECTION 2.--INTRODUCTION.

[Footnote 4: The numbers refer to paragraphs in the Infantry Drill Regulations, 1911.]

2.

3.

4.

In the interpretation of the regulations, the spirit must be sought. Quibbling over the minutiæ
of form is indicative of failure to grasp the spirit.

5. The principles of combat are considered in Part II of these regulations.

6.

7.

General Rules for Drills and Formations.

8.

9.

10. Columnright(left), 2. MARCH.

11.

12.

13.

14.

15.

16. Exception: 1. Asskirmishers,guideright(leftorcenter), 2. MARCH.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

23.

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

29.

30.

SECTION 3. ORDERS, COMMANDS, AND SIGNALS.

31.

32.

33.

34.

35.

ORDERS.

36.

COMMANDS.

37. In these regulations a command is the will of the commander expressed in the phraseology
prescribed herein.

38.

39.

40.

BUGLE SIGNALS.

41. Exception: FIX BAYONET. (see par. 318.)

The following bugle signals are used in exceptional cases on the battle field.

WHISTLE SIGNALS.

42.

ARM SIGNALS.

43. 44.)

RUSH. Same as double time.

44.

FLAG SIGNALS.

45.

46.

47.

-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------
  Letter of  |If signaled from the rear |  If signaled from the
  alphabet   |   to the firing line.
-------------+--------------------------+--------------------------

(2) THE TWO-ARM SEMAPHORE CODE.

(See illustrations in chapter XII.)

SECTION 4. SCHOOL OF THE SOLDIER.

48.

49.

INSTRUCTION WITHOUT ARMS.

50.

POSITION OF THE SOLDIER, OR ATTENTION.

51.

THE RESTS.

52.

53.

54.

EYES RIGHT OR LEFT.

55.

FACINGS.

56.

57.

SALUTE WITH THE HAND.

58.

For rules governing salutes, see "Honors and Salutes," paragraphs 758-765.

STEPS AND MARCHINGS.

59.

60.

61. Squadright,doubletime, 2. MARCH (School of the Squad).

QUICK TIME.

62.

63.

64. To resume the quick time: 1.

TO MARK TIME.

65. Being in march; 1.

THE HALF STEP.

66. 1.

67.

SIDE STEP.

68.

BACK STEP.

69.

TO HALT.

70.

TO MARCH BY THE FLANK.

71. Being in march: 1.

TO MARCH TO THE REAR.

72. Being in march: 1.

CHANGE STEP.

73. Being in march: 1.

MANUAL OF ARMS.

74.

75.

Fourth. The bayonet is not fixed except in bayonet exercise, on guard, or for combat.

Fifth.

Sixth. A disengaged hand in double time is held as when without arms.

76. The following rules govern the execution of the manual of arms:

First.

Third.

Fifth.

77.

78.

79.

80.

81.

82.

83. Being at order arms: 1.

84.

85. Being at port arms: 1.

86.

87.

88. Being at present arms: 1.

89. Being at port arms: 1.

90.

91.

92.

RIFLE SALUTE.

93.

94.

THE BAYONET.

95.

96.

97.

THE INSPECTION.

98.

99. Being at inspection arms: 1.

TO DISMISS THE SQUAD.

100.

SECTION 5. SCHOOL OF THE SQUAD.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105. The squad executes the HALT, REST, FACINGS, STEPS, and MARCHINGS and the MANUAL OF ARMS
as explained in the School of the Soldier.

TO FORM THE SQUAD.

106.

ALIGNMENTS.

107.

108.

TO TAKE INTERVALS AND DISTANCES.

109. Being in line at a halt: 1. Take interval, 2. Totheright (left), 3. MARCH, 4. Squad, 5. HALT.

At the command halt, given when all have their intervals, all halt and face to the front.

110. Being at intervals, to assemble the squad: 1.

111.

112.

TO STACK AND TAKE ARMS.

113.

114. Being in line behind the stacks: TAKE ARMS.

115.

Pieces are never stacked with the bayonet fixed.

THE OBLIQUE MARCH.

116.

117. 1.

TO TURN ON MOVING PIVOT.

118.

TO TURN ON FIXED PIVOT.

119. Being in line, to turn and march: 1.

120. Being in line, to turn and halt: 1.

121. Being in line, to turn about and march: 1.

122. Being in line, to turn about and halt: 1.

TO FOLLOW THE CORPORAL.

123.

TO DEPLOY AS SKIRMISHERS.

124. Being in any formation, assembled: 1. Asskirmishers, 2. MARCH.

The corporal places himself in front of the squall, if not already there.

125.

TO INCREASE OR DIMINISH INTERVALS.

126.

THE ASSEMBLY.

127.

KNEELING AND LYING DOWN.

128.

129.

130.

131. If lying down: KNEEL.

Raise the body on both knees; take the position of kneel.

132.

LOADINGS AND FIRINGS.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

138. When deployed, the use of the sling as an aid to accurate firing is discretionary with
each man.

TO LOAD.

139. Being in line or skirmish line at halt: 1.

140.

141.

TO UNLOAD.

142.

TO SET THE SIGHT.

143.

144.

145.

TO FIRE AT WILL.

146. FIRE AT WILL.

147.

TO FIRE BY CLIP.

148.

TO SUSPEND FIRING.

149.

TO CEASE FIRING.

150.

151.

THE USE OF COVER.

152. The recruit should be given careful instruction in the individual use of cover.

153.

154.

155.

156.

OBSERVATION.

157.

158.

SECTION 6. SCHOOL OF THE COMPANY.

159.

160.

161.

162.

163.

164.

165.

166.

CLOSE ORDER.

RULES.

167.

168.

169.

170.

171.

TO FORM THE COMPANY.

172.

173.

TO DISMISS THE COMPANY.

174.

ALIGNMENTS.

175.

MOVEMENTS ON THE FIXED PIVOT.

176. Being in line, to tune the company: 1. Each of the others halt upon arriving on the line,
aligns himself to the right, and executes FRONT without command.

177. Being in line, to form column of platoons, or the reverse: 1.

178. Squadsright(left), 2. MARCH, or, 1.

MOVEMENTS ON THE MOVING PIVOT.

179.

180.

181.

182. MARCH.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company.

183. Being in line, to form column of squads and change direction: 1. Squadsright(left),columnright(left),
2. MARCH; or, 1.

184. Being in line, to form line of platoons: 1. Squadsright (left),platoonscolumnright(left),
2. MARCH; or, 1. Platoons,right(left)bysquads, 2. MARCH.

Executed by each platoon as described for the company in the preceding paragraph.

FACING OR MARCHING TO THE REAR.

185. Squadsright(left) about, 2. MARCH; or, 1.

186.

ON RIGHT (LEFT) INTO LINE.

187. Being in column of platoons or squads, to form line on right or left: 1.

FRONT INTO LINE.

188.

189.

AT EASE AND ROUTE STEP.

190.

191. To march at route step: 1.

192. To march at ease: 1.

193.

TO DIMINISH THE FRONT OF A COLUMN OF SQUADS.

194. Being in column of squads: 1.

195.

196.

197.

198. Marching by twos or files can not be executed without serious delay and waste of road
space. Every reasonable precaution will be taken to obviate the necessity for these formations.

EXTENDED ORDER.

RULES FOR DEPLOYMENT.

199. After the deployment is completed, the guide is CENTER without command, unless otherwise
ordered.

200.

201.

202.

203. Deployed lines preserve a general alignment toward the guide.

204.

205.

DEPLOYMENTS.

206. Being in line, to form skirmish line to the front: 1.

207. Being in column of squads, to form skirmish line to the front: 1.

208.

209.

210. The intervals between men are increased or decreased as described in the School of the
Squad, adding to the preparatory command, GUIDE RIGHT (LEFT or CENTER) if necessary.

THE ASSEMBLY.

211.

THE ADVANCE.

212.

213. Being in skirmish line: 1.

214. Being in skirmish line: 1.

215.

[Footnote 5: Ordinarily about 20 yards wide.]

216. To deploy platoon or squad columns: 1.

217.

218. Being in skirmish line, to advance by a succession of thin lines: 1.

219.

220.

THE FIRE ATTACK.

221.

When it becomes impracticable for the company to advance as a whole by ordinary means, it advances
by rushes.

222. Being in skirmish line: 1.

223.

224.

THE COMPANY IN SUPPORT.

225.

226. The movements of the support as a whole and the dispatch of reenforcements from it to
the firing line are controlled by the major.

A reenforcement of less than one platoon has little influence and will be avoided whenever
practicable.

227. A reenforcement sent to the firing line joins it deployed as skirmishers.

228. A reenforcement joins the firing line as quickly as possible without exhausting the men.

229.

THE COMPANY ACTING ALONE.

230.

231. The company must be well protected against surprise. Combat patrols on the flanks are
specially important.

FIRE.

232.

233.

234.

235.

236. Firing with blank cartridges at an outlined or represented enemy at distances less than
100 yards is prohibited.

237.

RANGES.

238.

239.

240.

CLASSES OF FIRING.

241.

242. FIRE AT WILL is the class of fire normally employed in attack or defense.

243.

THE TARGET.

244.

245.

246.

247.

FIRE DIRECTION.

248.

249.

FIRE CONTROL.

250.

251.

252.

253.

FIRE DISCIPLINE.

254.

255.

256.

257.

SECTION 7. COMPANY INSPECTION.

745. Being in line at a halt: 1.

746. (C.I.D.R.,No.16,Aug.25,1916.)

747.

748.

SECTION 8. MANUAL OF TENT PITCHING.

SHELTER TENTS.

[For Infantry Equipment, model of 1910.][6]

[Footnote 6: For method of pitching shelter tents, with old model Infantry equipment or old
model shelter tent, see paragraph 792, in 'Method of Folding Pyramidal Tent'.]

792.

793.

NOTE.--The use of the hand ax and the pick mattock in organizations equipped with the intrenching
tool is authorized for the purpose of driving shelter tent pins. The use of the bayonet for
this purpose is prohibited.

794.

795.

SINGLE SLEEPING BAG.

796.

DOUBLE SLEEPING BAG.

797.

TO STRIKE SHELTER TENTS.

798.

799.

800. Rescinded.

CONICAL WALL TENT.

801.

TO STRIKE COMMON, WALL, PYRAMIDAL, AND CONICAL WALL TENTS.

802.

TO FOLD TENTS.

803.

METHOD OF FOLDING PYRAMIDAL TENT.

747.

796. Omitted.

797. Omitted.

798. Omitted.

SECTION 9. MANUAL OF THE BAYONET.

1.

2.

4.

5.

6.

7. These exercises will not be used as a calisthenic drill.

8. The principles of the commands are the same as those given in paragraph 9, 15, and 38, Infantry
Drill Regulations. Intervals and distances will be taken as in paragraphs 109 and 111, Infantry
Drill Regulations, except that, in formations for bayonet exercises, the men should be at least
four paces apart in every direction.

9.

10.

THE BAYONET.

NOMENCLATURE AND DESCRIPTION.

11.

12.

I. INSTRUTION WITHOUT THE RIFLE.

13.

14.

15. The men having taken intervals or distances, the instructor commands:

1.

16.

17.

18.

19.

20.

21.

22.

II. INSTRUCTION WITH THE RIFLE.

23. The commands for and the execution of the foot movements are the same as already given
for movements without the rifle.

24. The men having taken intervals or distances, the instructor commands:

1.

25.

26.

ATTACKS.

27.

28.

29.

30.

31.

32. Totherightrear, 2. Cut, 3. DOWN; 1. Totheright, 2. LUNGE; 1.

33.

34.

35.

36.

DEFENSES.

37.

38.

39.

40.

41. 1.

42.

43.

III. INSTRUCTION WITHOUT THE BAYONET.

44. 1.

45.

IV. COMBINED MOVEMENT.

46.

47.

48.

V. PRACTICAL BAYONET COMBAT.

49.

50.

51.

52.

53.

54.

55.

56.

57.

58.

59.

60.

VI. FENCING EXERCISES.

61.

62. The instructor will inspect the entire fencing equipment before the exercise begins and
fissure himself that everything is in such condition as will prevent accidents.

63.

64.

65. After the fencing salute has been rendered the instructor commands: 1.

66.

67.

68. Being engaged: ENGAGE LEFT AND RIGHT.

The attack ENGAGE LEFT and then immediately ENGAGES RIGHT.

69.

70.

71. In charging from one engage to the other the movement is controlled by the left hand, the
right remaining stationary.

72. After some exercise in ENGAGE, ENGAGE LEFT, and COUNTER, exercises will be given in the
assaults.

ASSAULTS.

73.

74.

SIMPLE ATTACKS.

75.

76.

77.

78.

79.

ATTACKS ON THE RIFLE.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

FEINTS.

85.

86.

87.

88. An opening may be offered or procured by opposition, as in the PRESS or BEAT.

89.

90.

COMBINED MOVEMENTS.

91.

92.

93.

94.

95.

VII. FENCING AT WILL.

96.

97.

98.

99.

100.

101.

102.

103.

104.

105.

RULES FOR FENCING AT WILL.

106.

SUGGESTIONS FOR FENCING AT WILL.

107.

108.

109.

110. Do not draw the rifle back preparatory to thrusting and lunging.

111.

HINTS FOR INSTRUCTORS.

112.

113. The character of each man, his bodily conformation, and his degree of skill must always
be taken into account. When the instructor is demonstrating the combinations, feints, returns,
and parries the rapidity of his attack should be regulated by the skill of the pupil and no
more force than is necessary should be used. If the pupil exposes himself too much in the feints
and parries, the instructor will, by an attack, convince him of his error; but if these returns
be too swiftly or too strongly made the pupil will become overcautious and the precision of
his attack will be impaired. The object is to teach the pupil, not to give exhibitions of superior
skill.

114. Occasionally the instructor should leave himself uncovered and fail to parry, in order
to teach the pupil to take quick advantage of such opportunities.

SUGGESTIONS.

Instruction in bayonet exercise and bayonet fencing should be conducted with a view to teaching
the aggressive use of the bayonet. Unless troops are so thoroughly trained with the bayonet
that they believe that with it they are superior to their opponents it will be difficult or
impossible to develop that morale which is necessary for a successful assault. Men should be
impressed with the importance of acting always on the offensive in bayonet combat, of pushing
their attack with all their might. Troops which are successful in their first few bayonet encounters
will seldom thereafter be called upon to use the bayonet--their opponents will not await the
assault.

Inaction gives every advantage to the enemy.

The offensive alone gives decisive results.

A quick and energetic offensive minimizes losses.

An advance against the enemy's position once entered upon must be continued. To go back under
fire is to die.

The best way to hold down the fire of the enemy and to diminish his power to inflict losses
is to bring the position he occupies under well conducted and continued fire.

Present as small a target as possible to the enemy by utilizing every bit of cover the ground
affords.

Individual skill in marksmanship is an advantage in battle only when united with fire discipline
and control.

Constant movement to the front lessens the effect of the enemy's fire. Modern battles fought
in the open show that the heaviest losses are in the mid and long ranges. When close range
is reached the losses diminish rapidly.

The best protection against artillery fire is a constant but irregular movement to the front.
When close to the enemy's position his fire is least effective.

A knowledge of how to use the bayonet and the will to use it must often be the deciding factors
in battle.

SECTION 2. COMBAT.

The field of battle is the final test of the instruction, discipline, and efficiency of the
fighting force of any army.

The battalion is the attack unit or the defense unit, whether operating alone or as part of
a regiment. The companies constitute the firing line and the support.

An individual soldier is concerned only with the enemy in his immediate front, in obeying orders,
and instinctively doing what he has been trained to do.

The one requisite necessary to win the battle is intelligent team work. The army is handled
just like a football team. A part is on the first line facing the enemy. Another part, like
the half backs, is held back as supports. Another part, like the full backs, is held as a reserve.
Each unit, like each player, has a certain duty to perform. When the signal is given, all work
together--all play the game--team work. The players consist of all branches of the service.

The same rule holds true down to the smallest unit and even to the individual enlisted man.
Each regiment is a team composed of three players--each a battalion. Each battalion is a team
of four players--each a company. In the same manner each company is a team of two or more platoons;
each platoon a team of two or more squads; and last, but not least, each squad is a team of
eight players.

The one question that always presents itself on the battlefield every minute of the time to
every person, whether he be a general or a private, is "What play has my team captain ordered,
and how best may I act so as to work in conjunction with the other players to bring about the
desired result?"--team play.

To the Infantry private this means--

First. Prompt and loyal obedience to the squad leader. Every squad always has a team captain.
If the squad leader is killed or disabled, another player previously designated takes his place.
If no one was designated, then the private with the longest service takes command. When the
squad leader gives the command for a certain play, don't stop to think if the play is a good
one, but do your very best to carry ont the play as ordered. A poor play in which every player
enters with his whole heart (team work) will often win, while, on the other hand, the best
play in which some of the players are skulkers and shirkers will probably fail.

Second. Never lose touch with your squad. Every individual, as well as every unit, should always
be acting under the control of some higher commander. This is necessary if there is to be any
unity of action. Therefore if you lose your squad, or it becomes broken up, join the first
squad you can find and obey your new squad leader as loyally and as cheerfully as you did your own.

Infantry approaches the battle field in columns of squads. While yet several miles from the
enemy's position the troops may come under artillery fire. On green men entering upon their
fight, the sound of the projectile whistling through the air, the noise, flash, and smoke on
the burst of the shrapnel, and the hum of the various pieces thereafter, all produce a very
terrifying effect, but old soldiers soon learn to pay little attention to this, as the danger
is not great.

As the troops advance, the column breaks up into smaller columns, which form on an irregular
line with more or less interval between. As the advance continues each column breaks up into
smaller columns until finally a line of skirmishers is formed.

Firing is delayed as long as possible for three reasons, viz: (a) At the extreme ranges little
damage can be done on the enemy, and ineffective firing always encourages him; (b) halting
to fire delays the advance, and the great object to be accomplished is to close in on the enemy
where you can meet him on better terms; (c) plenty of ammunition will be required at the decisive
stage of the fight, and it is very difficult to send extra ammunition up to the firing line.
Therefore never fire until ordered to do so, and then never fire more than the number of rounds
designated. Never fire after the command "cease firing" is given.

Soon, however, it will be necessary to halt and open fire on the enemy in order to cause him
some loss, to make his riflemen keep down in their trenches, and to make them fire wildly.
It is probable that at this time and until you arrive much closer you will not see any of the
enemy to fire at. You may not even see any trenches nor know just where the enemy is. Your
higher officers, however, with their field glasses and the messages they receive, will know.
Each company will be assigned a certain front to cover with its fire. Therefore be careful
to fix your sights at the designated range and fire only at the designated target. This means
team work in firing, which is one of the most important elements of success.

The firing line advances from position to position by means of rushes. At long range the entire
line may rush forward at the same time, but as the range decreases one part of the line rushes
forward while the remainder keeps up a hot fire on the enemy. The number taking part in each
rush decreases as the fire of the enemy becomes warmer, until perhaps only one squad, or even
less, rushes or crawls forward at a time, protected by the fire of the rest of the company.
The distance covered by each rush also becomes less and less. After any rush no part of the
line again advances until the rest of the line is up. In making a rush, the leader of the unit
gives the signal and leads the way. The rest follow. No attempt is made to keep a line, but
each man rushes forward at a run, seeking only to reach the new halting position as quickly
and with as little exposure as possible. When halted, the skirmishers need not be in a perfect
line, but every advantage should be taken of the ground for concealment and protection. It
is necessary only that no man or group of men should interfere with the fire of other parts
of the firing line.

The noise on the firing line will be great. Leaders will be disabled and new men will take
their places. Reinforcements coming up will cause units to become mixed. To the green man everything
may appear to be in confusion, but this is not so. This is war as it really is. If you have
lost your squad or your squad leader, join the leader nearest to you. This is the way the game
is played.

As long as the fight lasts every available rifleman must be kept in the firing line. The first
and last consideration is to win the battle. Therefore, under no circumstances will any soldier
be permitted to go to the rear, either for ammunition or to assist the wounded.

If the attacking force can no longer advance, it is much safer to throw up hasty intrenchments
and await the arrival of reinforcements or darkness than it is to retreat. Retreating troops
are the one that suffer the greatest. This lesson is taught by every great war. Therefore,
always remember that the safest thing to do is to stick to firing line.

Troops on the firing line, when not actually engaged in firing at the enemy, busy themselves
throwing up shelter trenches. It only requires a few minutes to construct a trench that gives
great protection. Therefore, never get separated from your intrenching tool.

Concealment is no less important than protection. Therefore, when conditions permit, as is
generally the case when on the defensive, every effort should be made to hide intrenchments
by the use of sod, grass, weeds, bushes, etc.

In making an attack the infantry is always supported when possible by its own artillery, which
continues to fire over its head until the infantry arrives very close to the enemy's trenches.
This fire is helping you a great deal by keeping down the fire of the enemies infantry and
artillery. Therefore, don't think you are being fired into by your own artillery because you
hear their shells and shrapnel singing through the air or bursting a short distance in your
front, but rather be thankful you are receiving their help up to the very last minute.

In the last rush which carries the enemy's position there is always much mixing of units. The
firing line does not continue rushing madly as individuals after the enemy, but halts and fires
on him until he gets out of good range. The pursuit is taken up by formed troops held in reserve
or by the firing line only after its units are again gotten together.

As the fighting often lasts all day, and great suffering is caused from thirst, don't throwaway
your canteen when the fight commences. It may also be impossible to get rations up to the line
during the night. Therefore, it is advisable to hold onto at least one ration.

As the recent war has shown the possibility of hand-to-hand fighting, especially at night,
each soldier should be schooled in the use of the bayonet. By gaining fire superiority is meant
making one's fire superior to that of the enemy in volume and accuracy, and it depends upon
the number of rifles employed, the rate of fire, the character of the target, training and
discipline, and fire direction and control. When the fire of the attackers becomes effective
and superior to that of the defenders the latter are no longer able to effectively and coolly
aim and fire at the former, and, as a consequence, the attackers are able to inaugurate a successful
rush or advance which carries them nearer to the enemy's position.

When a trained organization has been committed to the attack, the gaining of fire superiority
depends upon the way in which fire direction and fire control are exercised.

The captain directs the fire of the company. He indicates to the platoon commanders the target
(enemy) which the company is to fire and advance upon, and tells each upon which part of this
target he is to direct the fire of his platoon. When he desires the fire to be opened he gives
the necessary commands or signals, including the range at which the sights lire to be set.

When the fire fight has once started it becomes to a great extent a fight of a number of platoons.
The platoon is the largest organization which can be controlled by a single leader in action.
The platoon commander (lieutenant or sergeant) controls its fire in order to gain the maximum
fire effect and to avoid wasting ammunition. He must try his best to make the fire of his platoon
effective, to get it forward, and to support neighboring platoons in their effort to advance.
At the same time he must hold himself subject to his captain's directions. He should take advantage
of every chance to carry his platoon forward unless otherwise ordered. In all this he is assisted
by his platoon guide (sergeant) and by his corporals.

At the commencement of an engagement the platoon commander will give the objective (part of
the enemy's line or aiming target) at which his platoon is to direct its fire. Noncommissioned
officers must be sure that they see and understand the objective, and that all the men in their
squads do likewise. Fire is then directed at this objective without further command until the
platoon commander gives a new objective.

Men should be instructed to aim at that part of the target assigned to their platoon which
corresponds with their own position in their own platoon, so that there will be no portion
of the target which is not covered by fire. A portion of the enemy's line not covered by fire
means that that portion is able to coolly aim and fire at their opponents.

In an engagement the voice can seldom be heard over a few feet, and the platoon commander will
generally have to convey his orders by signals. A corporal may be able to shout orders to his
squad, and orders may be repeated along a skirmish line by shouting. Care should be taken that
orders intended for one platoon only are not thus conveyed to another platoon.

A short blast on the whistle, given by the platoon commander, means "Attention to Orders."
All noncommissioned officers at once suspend firing and glance toward the platoon commander
to see if the latter has any signals or orders for them. If not, they resume firing. A long
blast on the whistle means "Suspend Firing." When a noncommissioned officer hears this signal
from his platoon commander he should at once shout "Suspend Firing." Upon receiving a signal,
the noncommissioned officer for whom it is intended should at once repeat it back, to be sure
that it is correctly understood.

When a leader in command of a platoon or squad receives an order or signal to rush, he should
cause his men to suspend firing and to hold themselves flat but ready for a sprinter's start.
He selects the point, as far as possible with reference to cover, to which he intends to carry
his unit forward. He then gives the command "RUSH," springs forward, and running at full speed
about three paces ahead of his men, leads them in the rush. Arriving at the position he has
selected, he throws himself prone, and the men drop on either side of him. All crawl forward
to good firing positions, considering the cover also, and the leader gives the necessary orders
for resuming the fire. The latter will include giving the range again, the length of the rush
being subtracted from the sight setting ordered at the last position.

As a rule, rushes should be started by a unit on one flank, and should be followed in succession
by the other units to the opposite flank. Each succeeding unit should halt on the line established
by the unit which first rushed. When a unit is about to rush, leaders in charge of adjacent
units should caution their men to be careful not to fire into the rushing unit as it bounds
forward.

When one unit suspends fire for the purpose of rushing, adjacent leaders should arrange to
have a portion of their men turn their fire on the target of the rushing unit, to the end that
there may be no portion of the enemy's line not under fire and able to fire coolly on the rushing
unit.

Rushes should be made for as long a distance as possible, due regard being had for the wind
of the men and not to get beyond supporting distance of the other units. Long rushes facilitate
an advance, and quickly place a skirmish line close to the enemy's position, where its fire
will have more effect. An attacking line suffers less from casualties at short ranges than
it does at mid range.

Every advantage should be taken to utilize the cover available. The best kind of cover is that
which, while it masks the skirmishers from the sight and fire of the enemy, affords favorable
conditions for firing and for readily advancing. In order to allow men to regain their wind,
or should the fire of the enemy be so effective as to prevent a further advance without reinforcement,
advantage may be taken to lie close in cover, or hasty fire trenches may be thrown up in order
to allow the line to maintain its position. "To go back under fire is to die."

When a platoon is firing, all noncommissioned officers watch every opportunity to make the
fire more effective. The platoon guide should constantly watch the men to see that they do
not become excited, fire too hastily or without aim, that their sights are set at the correct
range, that they are obviously firing at the designated target, and that they assume steady
firing positions and take advantage of cover. In performing these duties it may be necessary
for the guides to be constantly crawling along the line. A corporal in like manner supervises
his squad, firing with it when he is not actively engaged in controlling it.

Bayonets are fixed preparatory to a charge. This command is usually given by the bugle. Only
one or two men in each squad should fix their bayonets at the same time, in order that there
may be no marked pause or diminution in the fire at this critical stage of the engagement.

In order to be effective in combat, the platoon must be thoroughly trained to work as a team.
Each noncommissioned officer must be conversant with the signals and commands and the proper
methods for instantly putting into effect the orders of his platoon commander. Each private
must be trained until he instinctively does the right thing in each phase of the action.

SECTION 3. PATROLLING.

The designation of a patrol indicates the nature of the duty for which it is detailed, as,
for example, visiting, reconnoitering, exploring, flanking, combat, harassing, pursuing, etc.
An Infantry patrol consists, as a rule, of from 3 to 16 men.

Reconnoitering patrols are habitually small and seek safety in concealment or flight, fighting
only when their mission demands it. The most skillful reconnaissance is where patrols accomplish
their mission and return without being discovered by the enemy. When resistance is expected
stronger detachments are required. These cover themselves with small patrols of two to four
men, the remainder acting as support.

The commander determines the number and strength of patrols and when they are to be sent out.
It is a cardinal principle to send out patrols of such strength only as will accomplish the object.

The officer sending out the patrol verifies the detail, designates a second in command, and
gives the necessary instruction. The orders or instructions for a patrol, or for any detachment
going on reconnoissance, must state clearly where the enemy is or is supposed to be, what information
is desired, what features are of special importance, the general direction to be followed,
whether friendly patrols are liable to be encountered, and where messages are to be sent or
the patrol is to report. Important and comprehensive instructions should be in writing, but
precautions against capture of papers must be taken. An officer sending out a patrol must be
certain that his orders are understood. Detailed instructions are, as a rule, avoided. When
necessary the time of return is stated.

The patrol leader should be selected with care. He should have good judgment, courage, be able
to read maps, make sketches, and send clear and concise messages. In addition to his ordinary
equipment, he should have a map of the country, a watch, field glass, compass, whistle, message
blanks, and pencils.

The leader of a patrol should carefully inspect it before starting out and see that each member
is in good physical condition, has serviceable shoes, a full canteen, one ration, a first-aid
packet, and that his rifle and ammunition are in good condition. He will see that the equipment
is arranged so as not to rattle; that nothing bright is exposed so as to glitter in the sunlight;
that nothing is taken along that will give information to the enemy should any member fall
into his hands, as, for example, copies of orders, maps with position of troops marked thereon,
letters, newspapers, or collar ornaments. Blanket rolls should generally be left behind, in
order that the patrol may travel as light as possible.

The leader then gives his patrol information and instructions. These embrace instructions from
higher authority; his detailed plans; information of the country and enemy; the countersign,
if any; the point where the patrol will assemble if scattered. He will see that the men understand
the prescribed signals.

It must always be remembered that it makes no difference how valuable may be the information
that the patrol gets, it is worthless if not sent back in time to be of service. Herein is
where most patrols full. This applies particularly to the information obtained by patrols acting
as a point or flankers of advance, rear, and flank guards. Whenever the patrol gets any information,
the leader must think whether the commanding officer would change his plans or issue new orders
if he had the information. If he would, the information should be sent back at once. If the
distance is great or the inhabitants are hostile, it is well to send two men with the message.
These men should not travel side by side, but as a patrol of two men. If the information is
very important, and the danger of capture is considerable, the message should be sent by two
parties, each traveling by a different route.

A message from a patrol should always show (a) the place from which it is sent; (b) the time
it is sent (date, hour, and minute); (c) to whom it is sent; (d) the message itself; (e) what
the patrol intends doing after sending the message; (f) the name of the sender. Under (d) care
must be taken to separate what has actually been seen by the patrol from information received
from other sources. Care must also be taken not to exaggerate what is seen, but to report only
the exact facts.

In their conduct patrols exercise the greatest vigilance to prevent discovery. No formal formation
is or should be prescribed. Under the leader's guidance it moves so as to guard against surprise,
usually with point and flankers. To extend the sphere of its observation, still smaller patrols
(one or two men) may be sent out for short distances, communication with the leader being maintained
by signals. Whatever the formation adopted, it should favor the escape of at least one man
in case of surprise.

In patrols of two to five men the commander generally leads. In this formation few signals
are necessary, the men simply regulating their movements by his.

In questioning civilians caution is observed not to disclose information that may be of value
to the enemy. Strangers are not allowed to precede the patrol.

Patrols should observe everything for signs of the enemy. Even apparent trifles may be of great
value. The finding of a collar ornament showing a man's regiment may enable the chief of staff
to determine that the enemy has been reenforced.

Patrols should not travel on the main roads if they can observe them and at the same time make
the necessary progress by moving some distance to the side of the roads.

Unless in case of attack or of great personal danger, no member of the patrol should fire on
hostile troops without orders from the patrol leader. When sent out to gain information, patrols
should avoid fighting unless it is absolutely necessary in order to carry out their orders.

Villages and inclosures involving danger of surprise are entered with precaution, and for brief
periods only. Halts are made at points affording good view, and the country is studied in all
directions, landmarks to the rear being impressed on the minds of the men so that the way back
can be readily found; the leader consults his map and locates himself thereon. Patrols nearing
their own lines should march at a walk unless pressed by the enemy.

Occasionally it is advisable fur the leader to conceal his patrol and continue the reconnoissance
with one or two companions.

Patrols far from their commands or in contact with the enemy often remain out overnight. In
such cases they seek a place of concealment, proceeding thereto after nightfall or under cover.

When the enemy is encountered it is very necessary to locate his main force. Information is
particularly desired of his strength, whether he has infantry, cavalry, and artillery, the
route and direction of his march, or the location of his camp and line of outposts.

Dust clouds indicate moving bodies. Infantry raises a low, thick cloud; cavalry a high thin
cloud; artillery and wagons a broken cloud. The kind of troops, direction of march, and approximate
strength may thus sometimes be roughly estimated. If from some position a body of troops can
be seen marching along in column, the exact time in minutes and seconds it requires for them
to pas a certain point should be noted, together with the formation they are in, thus: Infantry,
column of squads, three minutes and twelve seconds; cavalry, columns of twos at a trot, one
minute and twenty seconds; wagons, four-mule, five minutes.

For troops in column of twos, take one-half of the above estimate.

Patrols should always observe the country marched over, with a view to making a report on the
same. The following information is always of value:

ROADS.--Direction; kind, whether dirt, gravel, macadam, etc.; width, whether suitable for column
of squads, etc.; border, whether fenced with stone, barbed, wire, rails, etc.; steepness in
crossing hills and valleys; where they pass through defiles and along commanding heights. etc.;
crossroads.

SURROUNDING COUNTRY.--Whether generally open and passable for infantry, cavalry, and artillery,
or whether broken and impassable, due to fences, woods, crops, ravines, etc.

RAILROADS.--Single or double track, narrow or broad gauge, tunnels, bridges, cuts, direction,
stations, etc.

BRIDGES.--Material, wood, stone, steel, etc.: length and breadth; number and kind of piers
or supports.

RIVERS.--Direction; width, depth; kind of bottom, such as mud, sand, rocky, etc.: banks, steep
or gentle, open or wooded; rapidity of current; variations in depth at different times as indicated
by driftwood and high-water marks; islands; heights in vicinity commanding streams.

WOODS.--Extent and shape; kind of trees; free from underbrush or not; clearings, roads, swamps,
ravines, etc.

TELEGRAPH LINES.--Number of wires, along ronds or railroads, stations, etc.

VILLAGES.--Size, kind of houses, nature of streets, means of defense, etc.

HILLS AND RIDGES.--Whether slopes are gentle or steep; whether top is narrow or wide; whether
ground is broken or smooth, wooded or clear; whether difficult or easy to cross, etc.; whether
commanded by other hills.

DEFILES.--Their direction, length, and width; whether surrounding heights are passable for
infantry and artillery; kind of country at each opening of the defile, etc.

RAVINES, DITCHES, ETC.--Width and depth; banks, whether passable for infantry, cavalry, and
wagons; whether suitable for trenches, or for movement of troops therein, etc.

In general, every soldier should be constantly on the lookout to obtain information that might
be of some military value. Remember that information of the enemy and of the country is worthless
unless made known to the proper officials in time to be of use.

Every soldier should be able to find his way in a strange country; should know how to use a
compass; should know how to locate the North Star; should be able to travel across country,
keeping a given direction, both by day and by night, and by observing landmarks he should be
able to return to the starting point either over the same route or by a more circuitous one.
This can easily be learned by a little practice.

It adds a great deal to the value of a soldier if he knows how to use a map to find his way.
If he knows how to make a rough sketch of the country, showing the position of roads, streams,
woods, railroads, bridges, houses, villages, fields, fences, hills, etc., he has added to his
value as a soldier very much, indeed, because a rough sketch of a country will give more and
better information at a glance than can be obtained by reading many pages of written description.

PATROLLING is one of the most important duties a soldier can learn. Any enlisted man who understands
thoroughly his duties as a member of a patrol will understand also most of his duties when
with advance or rear guards or when on outpost duty. Patrolling can not be learned merely by
reading books nor by work indoors. Thoroughness comes only by actually going out in the country
and acting as a patrol.

In carrying out this idea the following scheme is recommended:

Let four or more men and a noncommissioned officer act as a patrol. They assemble at a certain
time, at a convenient point on some country road. An officer, whom we will call Captain A,
acts as the director; the noncommissioned officer, whom we will call Sergeant B, acts as patrol
leader; and the others (Privates C, D, E, etc.) act as members of Sergeant B's patrol.

Assume that the company (battalion. etc.) has just made camp in this vicinity find that the
inhabitants are friendly (or hostile).

Captain A indicates to the rest of the men where the camp is situated and points out where
the various sentinels are posted. (This in itself affords an opportunity for much discussion
and for teaching many valuable lessons.)

Captain A then calls up Sergeant B and tells him--

(a) Just what information Captain A has of the enemy, and also any information of the country
or of friendly troops in the vicinity that might be of service to Sergeant B.

(b) How many men he shall take for the patrol (this is another problem for Captain A to solve).
Any men present not used as part of the patrol go along with Captain A as observers.

(c) How far he shall go and what country he shall cover with the patrol.

(d) Just what information it is particularly desired he shall obtain.

(e) Where he shall send his messages and when he shall return.

Example 1:

"Sergeant B, it has just been reported to me that a company of hostile infantry was in camp
last night at X, about 5 miles from here on this road. Take 5 men and proceed toward X and
find out whether the enemy is still there, and if not, when he left and where he went. Send
messages to me here, and return by 8 o'clock this evening."

Example 2:

"Sergeant B, I think I heard the firing of field guns over in that direction a short while
ago. Take 6 men and proceed to that high hill you see over there about 4 miles away. Send a
message to me here when you reach there. You may go farther if you then think it advisable,
but return before daylight. I desire particularly to know if there are any hostile troops in
this vicinity, especially artillery. I shall send Sergeant X with 3 men to observe the country
from that hill you see over there farther to the south. He will remain there till dark. Send
messages to me here. If the company is not here on your return you will find a note for you
underneath this rail."

Example 3:

"Sergeant B, this friendly country boy has just reported that four hostile cavalrymen stopped
about half an hour ago at his father's house, which he says is about 2 miles up this road.
One of the men seemed to be very sick. You will select eight men from your section and endeavor
to capture these men. If they have disappeared you will reconnoiter in that vicinity until
dark. This boy will accompany you as a guide. I desire particularly to learn the position,
strength, and composition of any hostile troops in this vicinity. Send reports to me here.
Return before daylight."

Example 4:

"Sergeant B, here is a map of the country in this vicinity on a scale of 1 inch to the mile.
Here is where we are camped [indicating position on map]. I have just learned that foraging
parties of the enemy are collecting supplies over here at X [indicating point on map], which
is 10 miles off in that direction [pointing across country toward X]. It is reported that this
bridge over this stream [indicating same on the map] which is about 3 miles down this road
[indicating road and direction on the ground], has been destroyed. You will take three men
from your platoon and verify this report. You will also reconnoiter the stream for a distance
of 1 mile both above and below the bridge for fords suitable for infantry. Messages will reach
me here. Return by 8 o'clock to-night."

Sergeant B then inspects his men and gives them their instructions. The patrol is then formed
and moves out exactly as it would under actual war conditions.

Captain A may halt (and assemble if desirable) the patrol at intervals in order to discuss
the formation used and the movement of any members of the patrol, their route, use of cover,
etc., with the reasons therefor, and compare the same with suggested modifications of the formations,
etc. After the discussion, the patrol is again set in motion. Captain A may accompany any part
of the patrol. From time to time he presents certain situations to some member of the patrol,
being very careful to assume only such situations as might naturally occur.

Thus, take Example 1:

Captain A is with Sergeant B, who, with Private C, is marching along the road as the point
of the patrol. The other members of the patrol are distributed to suit the nature of the country
over which the patrol is marching. The point has just reached a ridge beyond which the country
is open and cultivated for about half a mile. Beyond this the road enters a woods. Captain
A now says: "Sergeant B, from this point you see two soldiers in khaki on the road there at
the beginning of that cornfield about 200 yards from the woods [points out same]. They are
moving in this direction. About 200 yards to the right of these find somewhat farther to their
rear you see two more men moving along that rail fence."

Sergeant B now does exactly as he would do in actual war. How does he signal to his patrol?
Does he assemble his men? If so, how and where? Does he send a message back to camp; and if
so, by whom, and is it written or verbal? (If written, Sergeant B actually writes it and delivers
it to Private ----, with the necessary instructions. If verbal, it is actually given to Private
---- with instructions.) Captain A must in this case make notes of what the message was. In
either case, Private ---- ceases to be a member of the patrol and joins Captain A as an observer.
He should, however, at some later time be required to repeat his message to Captain A, on the
assumption that he had reached camp with the same. The message, whether oral or written, should
be thoroughly analyzed and discussed. Was it proper to send a message at this time? Does Sergeant
B intend to remain in observation; if so, how long? (Captain A can give such information from
time to time concerning the hostile patrol as Sergeant B might reasonably be supposed to learn
in view of his dispositions. In order that Captain A may present natural assumptions, it is
very essential that in his own mind he should, at the outset, assume a situation for the hostile
forces and that he should consider himself as in command of all hostile troops. In this particular
case he should assume himself to be in command of the hostile patrol, acting under certain
specified orders similar to examples given, and he should conduct this patrol in his own mind
in accordance with these orders, giving Sergeant B only such information as he might reasonably
be expected to obtain in view of whatever action Sergeant B takes.) Will Sergeant B attempt
to capture this patrol? If so, how? Will he avoid fighting and attempt to pass it unobserved;
and if so, how and why?

In this manner the exercise is continued. Care must be taken not to have the patrol leader
or members state what they would do, but they must actually do it. Explanations and discussions
may take place later.

In a similar manner the director may inform Sergeant B (or any member of the patrol) that this
hostile patrol is followed by a squad (on the assumption that it is the leading unit of an
advance guard), and the exercise is then continued along these lines.

The following are examples of assumption that might be made and carried out:

(a) That the patrol is unexpectedly fired upon.

(b) That one or more of the patrol is wounded.

(c) That a prisoner is captured (let an observer act as prisoner).

(d) That a friendly inhabitant gives certain information.

(e) That a dust cloud is seen in the distance over the trees.

(f) That a column of troops can be seen marching along a distant road.

(g) That an abandoned camp is discovered and certain signs noted.

(h) That the patrol is attacked by a superior force and compelled to scatter.

There is practically no end to the number of reasonable assumptions that may be made.

Company officers may use this method of instructing non-commissioned officers in patrolling,
advance and rear guard duty, outposts, and in squad leading, in writing messages, in selecting
positions for trenches, and in constructing and concealing same. This form of instruction is
called "a tactical walk." It is very greatly used by all foreign armies. Exercises along the
same general lines are conducted for field and staff officers and even general officers, and
are called "tactical rides" and "strategical rides," depending upon their object.

After some proficiency has been attained as a result of these tactical walks, the greatest
interest and enthusiasm can be awakened in this work by sending out two patrols the same day,
one to operate against the other. Each should wear a distinctive uniform. The strength of each
patrol, its starting point, route to be followed, and its orders should all be unknown to the
other patrol. If blank ammunition is used, an officer should supervise its issue and carefully
inspect to see that no man carries any ball cartridges. One umpire should accompany the commander
of each party. Each umpire should be fully informed of the strength, orders, and route of both
patrols. He must, however, carefully avoid giving suggestions or offering any information to
the commander. Observers in these small maneuver problems are generally in the way and none
should be permitted to be along.

These small maneuvers may be gradually developed by having one side establish al outpost or
fight a delaying action, etc.

It should always be remembered that there is no hard and fast rule prescribing how a patrol
of three, five, or any number of men should march. The same is equally true of advance guards,
and applies also to the establishment of outposts. It is simply a question of common sense
based on military knowledge. Don't try to remember any diagrams in a book. Think only of what
you have been ordered to do and how best you can handle your men to accomplish your mission,
and at the same time save the men from any unnecessary hardships. Never use two or more men
to do what one can do just as well, and don't let your men get beyond your control.

SECTION 4. ADVANCE GUARDS.

The advance guard is a detachment of the main body which precedes and covers it on the march.
The primary duty of an advance guard is to insure the safe and uninterrupted march of the main
body. Specifically its duties are:

1. To guard against surprise and furnish information by reconnoitering.

The strength of the advance guard will vary with the proximity of the enemy and character of
the country; for a regiment it will generally consist of from two companies to a battalion,
for a battalion of one company; for a company of from a squad to a platoon. The advance guard
commander is responsible for the proper performance of the duties with which it is charged
and for its conduct and formation.

The advance guard provides for its security and gains information by throwing out to the front
and flanks smaller bodies. Each part must keep in touch with the unit from which it is sent
out. An advance guard is generally divided into a reserve and a support; where it consists
of less than a battalion, the reserve is generally omitted.

The support sends forward an advance party, which, in turn, sends forward a point. In small
advance guards the point precedes the advance party about 150 yards, the advance party the
support about 300 yards, and the support the main body about 400 yards. Where advance guards
are large enough to require a reserve these distances are increased about one-fourth, the reserve
following the support, the main body following the reserve at a distance varying from 500 to
800 yards.

Unless the country to the flanks is distinctly visible from the roads for a distance of what
may be said to be effective rifle fire, approximately 1,000 yards, flanking patrols of two
or three men each should be sent out from the advance party, and, when in proximity of the
enemy, in addition from the support. When the nature of the country is such that patrols may
move across country without undue effort and fatigue these patrols should march at a distance
of from 200 to 300 yards from the flank of the body from which detached. For the examination
of any object, such as a wood, buildings, etc., examining patrols should be sent out from the
main body. The usual method of protecting the flanks, particularly when the country is at all
cut up or difficult, is to send out patrols from time to time to some point from which a good
outlook can be obtained, or which will afford protection to the enemy. These patrols remain
in observation until the advance guard has passed, when they rejoin the nearest subdivision,
as quickly as possible working their way to that to which they belong during the halts. By
sending out a succession of small patrols in this manner the flanks are protected. Should the
advance party become depleted, it must be reenforced from the support.

A battalion acting as advance guard would have two companies in reserve and two in support.
The support would send forward as advance party two platoons, the advance party in turn sending
forward as point one squad. A company acting as advance guard would have no reserve and would
send forward as advance party one platoon.

Cases may arise when the best means of covering the head and flanks of the column will be by
a line of skirmishers extended at intervals of from 5 to 50 yards, as, for instance, when passing
through high corn, underbrush, etc.

It must always be remembered that the principal duty of the advance guard is to secure the
uninterrupted march of the main body. If the point is fired upon, it should at once deploy
and endeavor to advance fighting. The flankers should assist in this and endeavor to locate
the enemy's flank should there be such resistance that advance was impossible. Each succeeding
body should march promptly forward, and in turn be placed in action, with the idea of clearing
the way for the advance of the main body. Should this be impossible, the commander of the entire
body must determine what measures he will take.

SECTION 5. REAR GUARDS.

A rear guard is a detachment detailed to protect the main body from attack in rear. In a retreat
it checks pursuit and enables the main body to increase the distance between it and the enemy
and to re-form if disorganized. The general formation is that of an advance guard reversed.

Its commander should take advantage of every favorable opportunity to delay the pursuers by
obstructing the road or by taking up specially favorable positions from which to force the
enemy to deploy. In this latter case care must be taken not to become so closely engaged as
to render withdrawal unnecessarily difficult. The position taken should be selected with reference
to ease of withdrawal and ability to bring the enemy under fire at long ranges.

SECTION 6. FLANK GUARDS.

A flank guard is a detachment detailed to cover the flank of a column marching past, or across
the front of, an enemy. It may be placed in position to protect the passage, or it may be so
marched as to cover the passage. The object of the flank guard is to hold the enemy in check
long enough to enable the main body to pass, or, like the advance guard, to enable the main
body to deploy. Like all other detachments, it should be no larger than is necessary, and should
not be detailed except when its protection is required.

When a flank guard consists of a regiment or less, its distance from the main body should not
exceed a mile and a half. Practicable communication must exist between it and the main body.
The flank guard is marched as a separate command; that is, with advance or rear guards, or
both, as circumstances demand, and with patrolling on the exposed flank.

SECTION 7. OUTPOSTS.

Troops not on the march provide for their security by outposts. The general duties of an outpost
are reconnoissance, observation, and resistance.

The specific duties are:

1. To protect the main body, so that the troops may rest undisturbed.

2.

During an advance the outposts are usually detailed from the advance guard. During the retreat
the outpost for the night usually forms the rear guard the next day. If the command remains
in bivouac, the new outpost generally goes on duty at daybreak.

The vigilance of outpost troops must be unceasing, but they should avoid bringing on combats
or unnecessarily alarming the command. Firing disturbs the rest of troops and, if frequently
indulged in, ceases to be a warning.

No trumpet signals except "to arms" or "to horse" are sounded, and all unnecessary noises must
be avoided.

As a rule an outpost will not exceed one-sixth the strength of a command. For a single company
a few sentinels and patrols will suffice; for a larger command a more elaborate system must
be devised. The troops composing the outpost are generally divided into a reserve and several
supports.

At a proper distance in front of the camp of the main body a line which offers a good defensive
position is selected. This is called the LINE OF RESISTANCE, and should he so located that
an advancing enemy will be held in check beyond effective rifle range in case of a small force,
artillery range in case of a large force, of the main body until the latter can deploy. The
reserve is stationed at some point in rear of this line, where it can be moved quickly to reinforce
any point as needed. The line of resistance is divided into sections, the limits of each of
which are clearly defined. A support is assigned to each section, which are numbered from right
to left, and occupies a position on or near the line, having special regard to covering avenues
of approach. The position occupied should always be intrenched. The reserve and supports proceed
to their respective positions by the shortest routes, providing for their own protection by
sending out covering detachments.

Generally speaking, about one-half the Infantry of the advance guard should be in the supports.
As each support arrives at its position it sends out observation groups, varying in size from
four men to a platoon, to watch the country in the direction of the enemy. These groups are
called outguards. For convenience they are classified as pickets, sentry squads, and cossack
posts, and should be sufficient in number to cover the front of the section occupied by the
support and connect with the neighboring supports.

As a rule not more than one-third of the support should be on outguard duty. As soon as they
are sent out to their postions the support commander selects a defensive position on the line
of resistance; gives instruction for intrenching same; establishes a sentinel to watch for
and transmit signals from outguards; sends out patrols to reconnoiter the country to the front
of his section and, if on the flank of the line, the flank; and then proceeds to make a careful
reconnoissance of the section assigned him, rectifying the position of outguards if necessary,
seeing that they understand their instructions in case of attack or when strangers approach
their posts, and pointing out their lines of retreat in case they are compelled to fall back
on the support.

When the outguards are established, the members of the support may stack arms and remove equipment
except cartridge belts. No fires will be built or smoking permitted unless specially authorized,
or no loud talking or other noise. All patrolling to the front will be done, as a rule, from
the support. The support commander should locate the position of the adjacent supports und
make arrangements with the commanders for the joint defense of the line of resistance. At nights
all roads and trails should be carefully covered and the country to the front and between adjacent
outguards well patrolled.

The line occupied by the outguards is called the LINE OF OBSERVATION. Outguards move to their
positions providing for their own protection and so us to conceal the movement from the enemy.
These positions are intrenched and are numbered from right to left in each support.

The duties of the outguard are to observe the enemy, to guard the outpost from surprise, and
to make a preliminary resistance to the enemy's advance. The strength of the outguard will
vary according to its object. When an important road which at night will afford a line of advance,
or a bridge is to be covered, or when several posts are established from an outguard it should
be of considerable strength, two squads or a platoon. When mere observation and alarm are all
that is required four men will suffice. A squall is a good unit to use as an outguard; this
will allow one double sentry post of three reliefs and one man in addition to the commander,
who may be used for messenger service. The outguard should be carefully concealed.

The utmost quiet should be observed, and there should be no cooking or smoking. The intervals
between outguards will depend upon the situation and the terrain. The line of observation is
not necessarily continuous, but all avenues of approach must be carefully guarded. The distance
of the outguard from the support likewise is governed by the terrain, but in general may be
said to be from 300 to 400 yards. In thick country or at night outguards patrol along the line
of observation between posts. Communication between outguards and the support is by signal
and messenger, in special cases by wire. Members of the outguard retain possession of their
weapons and do not remove their equipment. For every sentinel and every patrol there should
be three reliefs, and outguards should be of a strength sufficient to allow this. The position
of a sentinel should be selected with reference to observation. It may be advantageous to place
a sentinel in a tree.

A sentinel on the line of observation should always have the following instructions: The names
of villages, streams, and prominent features in sight and where the roads lead. The number
(if any) of his post, and the number of his and of the adjoining outguards; the position of
the support; the line of retreat to be followed if the outguard is compelled to fall back;
the position of advance detachments and whether friendly patrols are operating in front; to
watch to the front and flanks without intermission and devote special attention to unusual
or suspicious occurrences; if he sees indications of the enemy, to at once notify his immediate
superior; in case of imminent danger, or when an attack is made, to give the alarm by firing
rapidly; by day to pass in or out officers, noncommissioned officers, and detachments recognized
as part of the outposts, and officers known to have authority to do so; to detain all others
and notify the outguard commander; at night, when persons approach his post, to come to a ready,
halt them, and notify the outguard commander; the latter challenges, ascertains their identity,
and acts accordingly. When individuals fail to halt, or otherwise disobey, to fire upon them
after a second warning, or sooner if they attempt to attack or escape; to require deserters
to lay down their arms, and remain until a patrol is sent out to bring them in; to order deserters
pursued by the enemy to drop their arms and to give an alarm; if they fail to obey they are
fired upon; to require bearers of flags of truce and their escorts to halt and to face outward;
to permit them to hold no conversation and to see that they are then blindfolded and disposed
of in accordance with instructions from the support commander; if they fall to obey to fire
upon them; at night, to remain practically stationary, moving about for purposes of observation
only; not to sit or lie down unless authorized to do so; in the daytime, to make use of natural
or artificial cover and assume such positions as to give him the best field of view; to inform
passing patrols of what he has seen; to carry his weapon habitually loaded and locked and at will.

Outpost patrols are divided into those which operate beyond the lines and those whose duty
lies principally within the lines. The former, called reconnoitering patrols, scout in the
direction of the enemy; the latter, called visiting patrols, maintain communication between
the parts of the outpost and supervise the performance of duty on the line of observation.
Reconnoissance should be continuous. Though scouts and detachments of cavalry remain in contact
with the enemy, or at least push forward to a considerable distance, more detailed reconnoissance
by infantry patrols in the foreground must not be neglected. Reconnoitering patrols are composed
of at least two men and a skillful leader, who, in important cases, would be an officer. They
obtain information, ascertain the presence of the enemy, or discover his approach. All patrols,
when they cross the line of observation, inform the nearest sentinel of the direction in which
they are to advance; on their return they similarly report what they have seen of the enemy;
signals are agreed upon so that they can be recognized when returning. Any ground near the
line of observation which might afford cover for troops, or for scouts or spies, and the approach
to which can not be observed by sentinels, is searched frequently by patrols. Definite information
concerning the enemy is reported at once. Patrols fire only in self-defense or to give the
alarm. Supports on the flank of an outpost position patrol the country on the exposed flank.
Visiting patrols and reliefs should not march in the open, and thereby expose the position
of sentinels.

During a march in the vicinity of the enemy when halts are made, special measures for protection
are taken. When the halt is for a short period, less than half an hour, the advance party and
support remain at ease, the point and flankers move to positions from which they can obtain
a good lookout, and additional patrols may be sent out from advance parties and supports. Where
the halt is for a period exceeding half an hour a MARCH OUTPOST should be formed. With an advance
guard consisting of a battalion, 2 companies in the reserve, 2 in the support, the latter having
as advance party one-half a company, a typical march outpost would be formed as follows: The
advance party would send one platoon, four or five hundred yards to the right as outguard No.
1, the remaining platoon constituting outguard No. 2. A platoon from the head of the support
would be sent a similar distance to the left as outguard No. 3. The balance of the support
would constitute the support of the march outpost, the reserve of the advance guard acting
as reserve. On signal being given to resume the march, the various units would close in, and
as soon as the advance party had assembled the march would be taken up.

SECTION 8. RIFLE TRENCHES.

Soldiers should remember that only by acting vigorously on the offensive can an army hope to
gain the victory. The defensive may delay or stop the enemy, but it can never destroy him.
"Troops dig because they are forced to halt; they do not halt to dig."

Trenches will frequently be constructed, without being used, and soldiers must expect this
as a feature of campaigning and accept cheerfully what at times may appear as unnecessary labor.

When intrenching under fire cover is first secured in the lying position, each man scooping
out a depression for his body and throwing the earth to the front. In this position no excavation
can be conveniently made for the legs, but if time permits the original excavation is enlarged
and deepened until it is possible to assume a sitting position, with the legs crossed and the
shoulder to the parapet. In such a position a man presents a smaller target to shrapnel bullets
than in the lying trench and can fire more comfortably and with less exposure than in the kneeling
trench. From the sitting position the excavation may be continued until a standing trench is
secured.

The accompanying plate shows some of the more common forms of trenches in profile. Figure 1
is the simplest form of standing trench. Figure 2 shows the same trench deepened in rear, so
as to allow men to walk along in the rear (deeper) portion of the trench without exposing their
heads above the parapet. Figure 3 shows a cover and firing trench, with a chamber in which
men can find shelter when under heavy artillery fire. When the excavated earth is easily removed
figure 4 shows a good profile. The enemy's infantry, as well as his artillery, will generally
have great difficulty in seeing this type of trench.

The mound or bank of earth thrown up for shelter in front of a trench is called the PARAPET.
It should be at least 30 inches thick on top, and the front should slope gradually, as shown
in the plate, so that shells will tend to glance from it, rather than penetrate and explode.
The top should be covered with sod, grass, or leaves, so as to hide the newly turned earth,
which could be easily seen and aimed at by the enemy. There should be no rocks, loose stones,
or pebbles on top, which might be struck by the bullets, splintering and flying, thus adding
greatly to the number of dangerous projectiles, and often deflecting bullets downward into
the trench. A stone wall is a very dangerous thing to be behind in a fight.

The portion of the ground in rear of the parapet and between the parapet and the trench not
covered by the parapet is to rest the elbows on when firing, the rifle being rested on top
of the parapet.

To obtain head cover in a trench fill a gunny sack or other bag with sand or soil and place
it on top of the parapet, aiming around the right-hand side of it, or dig a small lateral trench
in the parapet large enough to hold the rifle. Roof it over with boards, small logs, or brush,
and heap dirt on top, aiming through the small trench or resulting loophole.

Figure 5 shows the plan of a section of a rifle trench.[7] Between the portions occupied by
each squad there is often placed a mound of earth as high as the top of the parapet and projecting
back into the trench. This is called a TRAVERSE and protects the occupants of the trench from
fire from a flank. Bullets from this direction hit a traverse, instead of flying down into
the trench and wounding several men.

[Footnote 7: The traverse should be at least 6 feet wide instead of 3 feet, as shown in figure 5.]

Trenches are seldom continuous, but are made in sections placed at the most advantageous points,
as shown in figure 6. A company or battalion may occupy a single section. The firing trenches
have cover trenches in rear of them, where the supports can rest undisturbed by the hostile
fire until they are needed in the firing trench to repel a serious assault or to take part
in a counter attack. Passages consisting of deep communicating trenches facilitate passage
from the cover trenches to the firing trenches when under fire. These communicating trenches
are usually zigzag or traversed to prevent their being swept by hostile fire.

When troops are likely to remain in trenches for a considerable time drainage should be arranged
for, and latrines and dressing stations should be constructed in trenches. Water should be
brought into the trenches and holes excavated in the front wall of the trench for extra ammunition.

In digging trenches men usually work in reliefs, one relief digging while the others rest,
the proportion of shovelers to pick men being about 3 to 1. If a plow can be obtained to turn
the sod, it will greatly facilitate the initial work of digging.

THE EVENING BEFORE THE MARCH.

When a command learns that it is to make a march on the following day, presumably starting
early in the morning, certain details should be attended to the evening before.

All men should fill their canteens as there will probably be no time for this in the morning.

The mess sergeant should find out whether lunch or the reserve ration will be carried on the
march and should attend to these details in the evening in order that the issue can be made
promptly in the morning.

The commander of the guard should be given a memorandum as to what time to awaken the cooks
and where their tent is. The member of the guard who does this should awaken them without noise
so as not to disturb the rest of the remainder of the command.

The cooks should be instructed as to what time breakfast is to be served and what time to awaken
the first sergeant.

The cooks or cook's police must cut and split all firewood for the morning before 9 p. m. There
must be no chopping, talking, or rattling of pans before reveille which will disturb the rest
of the command. This applies to every morning in camp.

THE MORNING OF THE MARCH.

Cooks arise when called by the guard and start the preparation of breakfast without noise.
The first sergeant is usually awakened by one of the cooks about half an hour before reveille
in order that he may complete his toilet and breakfast early and be able to devote all his
time to supervising the details of the morning's work. If the officers desire to be awakened
before reveille they will notify the first sergeant accordingly.

At first call the men turn out, perform their toilets, strike their shelter tents (unless it
has been directed to await the sounding of the general for this), and make up their packs.

At the sounding of assembly immediately after reveille each man must be in his proper place
in ranks. This assembly is under arms. The first sergeant starts to call the roll or commands
"Report" at the last note of assembly. Arms are stacked before the company is dismissed.

Breakfast is served to the company immediately after roll call. Immediately after breakfast
each man will wash his mess kit in the hot water provided for that purpose at the kitchen and
will at once pack the mess kit in his haversack.

The cooks will provide hot water for washing mess kits at the same time that breakfast is served.

Immediately after breakfast the company proceeds to the work of breaking camp and packing in
accordance with a prearranged system similar to the following:

One squad assists the cooks in packing the kitchen.

One squad strikes and folds the officers' tents and brings them to the kitchen.

One squad fills in the sink. The sink should not be filled in earlier than is absolutely necessary.

One squad polices the camp within the company police limits.

One squad is available for possible details from regimental headquarters.

Officers and first sergeant supervise the work.

A permanent assignment of squads to these duties lightens the labor and decreases the time
necessary for breaking camp. After the breaking of camp the entire company is used to police camp.

Men should not start from camp thirsty, but should drink all the water they want immediately
after breakfast. All canteens should be filled before marching, one man in each squad being
detailed to fill the canteens for his squad.

At assembly for the march the men fall in in rear or the stacks fully equipped for marching.

SECTION 2. MARCHING.

The principal work of troops in the field consists of marching. Battles take place only at
indefinite intervals, but marches are of daily occurrence. It is only by good marching that
troops can arrive at a given point at a given time and in good condition for battle.

The rate of march depends greatly upon the condition of the roads and the weather, but the
average rate for infantry is about 2-1/2 miles per hour. This allows for a rest of 10 minutes
each hour. The total distance marched in a day depends not only on the rate of march, but upon
the size of the command, large commands often covering only about 10 miles a day, while small
commands easily cover double that distance.

In order to make the march with the greatest comfort and the least danger, it is necessary
that each unit be kept well in hand. Each man is permitted and encouraged to make himself as
comfortable as possible at all times, excepting only that he must not interfere with the comfort
of others or with the march of the column.

Infantry generally marches in column of squads, but on narrow roads or trails column of twos
or files is used. The route step is habitually used when silence is not required. In large
commands, in order that the column be kept in hand, it is very necessary that each man keep
his place in ranks and follow his file leader at the prescribed distance. This is one of the
best tests for determining the discipline and efficiency of troops. The equipment should be
carefully adjusted before starting out, and any part that is not comfortable should be rearranged
at the first opportunity. The rifle is carried at will, except that the muzzle must be pointed
up so as not to interfere with the other men.

Under no circumstances will any man leave the ranks without permission from his company or
higher commander. If the absence is to be for more than a short while, he must be given a pass
showing his name, rank, and organization, and the reason he is permitted to be absent. If sick,
it is better to wait by the roadside at some comfortable place for the arrival of the surgeon
or the ambulance. In any case, the soldier keeps his rifle and equipment with him, if possible.
Soldiers absent from their organization without a pass will be arrested and returned to their
command for punishment.

Marches in hot weather are particularly trying. Green leaves or a damp cloth carried in the
hat lessens the chance of sunstroke. The hat should have ventilators, and when not exposed
to the direct rays of the sun it should be removed from the head. It is well to keep the clothing
about the neck and throat open, and sometimes to turn up the shirt sleeves so as to leave the
wrists free.

The canteen should always be filled before starting out. Use the water very sparingly. None
at all should be drunk during the first three or four hours of the march. After that take only
a few mouthfuls at a time and wash out the mouth and throat. Except possibly in very hot weather,
one canteen of water should last for the entire day's march. Excessive water drinking on the
march will play a man out very quickly. Old soldiers never drink when marching. A small pebble
carried in the mouth keeps it moist and therefore reduces thirst. Or a small piece of chocolate
may occasionally be eaten. Smoking is very depressing during a march.

Canteens will not be refilled on the march without authority from an officer, as the clearest
water, whether from a well, spring, or running stream, may be very impure and the source of
many camp diseases. If canteens are to be refilled, it should be done by order, and a detail
is generally made for this purpose.

Entering upon private property without permission, or stealing fruit, etc., from gardens and
orchards, is a serious military offense, as well as a violation of the civil laws.

When a cooked meal is carried, it should not be eaten until the proper time.

A command ordinarily marches for 50 minutes and halts for 10 minutes. The first halt in a day's
march is for about 15 minutes, is made after about 30 minutes' marching, and is for the express
purpose of allowing the men to relieve themselves. Men who wish to do this should attend to
it at once and not wait until the command is almost ready to march again.

At every halt get all the rest possible and don't spend the time wandering around or standing
about. Only green recruits do this. If the ground is dry, stretch out at full length, removing
the pack or blanket roll and belt, and get in as comfortable position as possible. The next
best way is to sit down with a good back rest against a tree or a fence or some other object.
Never sit down or lie down, however, on wet or damp ground. Sit on your pack or blanket roll,
or on anything else that is dry. At a halt it is very refreshing to adjust the underclothing.

SECTION 3. MAKING CAMP.

On reaching the camp site the men should be allowed to fall out and rest as soon as the arms
have been stacked and the shelter tents pitched. If the blanket rolls have been carried on
the wagons, then the location of the front poles of the shelter tents should be marked before
they are allowed to fall out. The men will not be allowed to relieve themselves until sinks
are dug. Temporary sinks may be dug with intrenching tools, if carried. A guard should be placed
over the water supply at once.

As soon as the shelter tents are pitched the company proceeds to the remainder of the camp
work in accordance with a permanent assignment similar to the following:

One squad helps arrange the kitchen.

One squad pitches the officers' tents.

One squad digs the sink.

One squad procures wood and water.

One squad is held available for details from regimental headquarters.

The officers and first sergeant supervise the work.

The sinks are located by the commanding officer. The detail to dig them should wait until informed
of the location. An officer should inspect the sink as soon as the detail reports it as completed.

After the camp has been put in order the first sergeant makes the details from roster for kitchen
police and noncommissioned officer in charge of quarters for the next day and for such guard
as may be ordered for that day.

The details called for by regimental headquarters for pitching the headquarters camp for the
quartermaster, etc., should be reported to the adjutant without delay.

The cooks pitch their tent at that end of the company street nearest the kitchen. Space must
be left for this tent if the cooks are not in ranks when the company pitches tents. Unless
lunch has been carried or cooked during the march, the cooks should get to work on a hot meal
as soon as possible. The kitchen police report at the kitchen as soon as their tent is pitched.
Wood and water will be required at once.

Officers should avoid keeping the men unnecessarily under arms or on their feet after a hard
day's march.

When the details of making camp have been completed, all men should at once care for their
rifles and feet. (For details as to the care of the rifle see Chapter II Section 1, for the
care of the feet see Chapter IV.)

SECTION 4. CAMP SERVICE AND DUTIES.

In camp "Reveille" is preceded by "First call," and a march played by the band or field music,
and is followed immediately by "Assembly." If there is a reveille gun, it is fired at the first
note of the march and is the signal for all to arise. The roll is called at the last notes
of assembly after reveille. At this formation men should fall in in the proper uniform--rifle
and belt, service hat, olive-drab flannel shirt, service breeches, leggings, and shoes. The
regimental commander may prescribe that coats are to be worn and will prescribe the exact uniform
for all drills, parades, and other formations, as well as for men going on pass.

Immediately after reveille roll call the sergeant next in rank to the first sergeant takes
command of the company and deploys it for a general police of the camp within the limits assigned
to the company. Men pick up all scraps of paper and rubbish of all kinds, depositing it in
the company incinerator or place designated for the purpose. The police limits of each company
are usually designated as extending from head to rear of camp within the space occupied by
the company street, including the ground occupied by the tents of the company, no unassigned
space being left between companies.

Immediately after breakfast men police their tents and raise walls of same. If the day is fair,
all bedding should be spread on the tents for several hours' airing.

At sick call all men who are sick fall in and are marched to the regimental infirmary, under
charge of the noncommissioned officer in charge of quarters. The noncommissioned officer takes
with him the company sick report previously filled in and signed by the company commander.
The surgeon examines all those reporting and indicates their status on the sick report. This
status may be "Duty" (available for all duty), "Quarters" (patient to remain in tent or company
street), and "Hospital" (patient to be sent to the hospital). The noncommissioned officer then
returns to the company with all the men not marked "Hospital" and hands the sick report to
the first sergeant.

At "Drill call" the company prepares for drill and falls in so that it will be completely formed
at assembly, which is usually sounded 10 minutes after drill call. All men are required to
attend drill except those excused by sick report and those specially excused from headquarters.
The excused list should include in each company only the mess sergeant, the two cooks, one
kitchen police, and men on regimental guard. During drill hours the guard to be excused should
be limited to a small patrol to guard against fire and thieves in camp.

If the bedding has been aired, it should be taken in immediately after drill and placed in
the tents neatly folded.

Some time during the morning, at a time designated by him, the company commander inspects the
entire company camp. At this inspection the entire street should be policed, kitchen in order,
and tents policed, as follows:

In permanent camp, when pyramidal, conical, or wall tents are used: Bedding folded neatly and
placed on the head of the cot. (If bed sacks are used, they will be folded in three folds and
the bedding placed on top.) Hats on top of the bedding. Shoes under foot of cot. Surplus kit
bag at side of squad leader's cot. Equipment suspended neatly from a frame arranged around
the tent pole. Rifles in rack constructed around the tent pole.

In shelter-tent camp: Bedding neatly folded and placed at rear of tent, ponchos underneath.
Equipment arranged on the bedding. Rifles laid on bedding except when used as tent poles.

The regimental commander prescribes the exact scheme to be followed in the police of tents.

Should there be no parade, retreat roll call is held at the same hour. This roll call is under
arms and is supervised by an officer of the company. After the roll call and at the sounding
of "Retreat," the officer brings the company to parade rest and keeps it in this position during
the sounding of this call. At the first note of the National Anthem ("The Star-Spangled Banner")
or "To the Color" the company is brought to attention and so stands until the end of the playing.
The officer then reports the result of the roll call to the adjutant or officer of the day,
returns to the company, inspects the arms, and dismisses it.

At the sounding of "Call to quarters" all men will repair to their company street.

After taps has sounded all talking must cease and all lights must be extinguished, and so remain
until first call for reveille.

In camp all enlisted men are prohibited from crossing the officers' street, or from visiting
officers' tents unless actually engaged in some duty requiring them to do so, or sent for by
an officer.

Men are not allowed to leave camp without a pass signed by the company commander and countersigned
by the regimental adjutant. The first sergeant is sometimes allowed to give men permission
to leave camp from retreat to taps.

The noncommissioned officer in charge of quarters, detailed for 24 hours goes on duty each
day at reveille. He is responsible that the grounds around the company are kept in proper police;
that no loud noise, disturbance, or disorder occurs in the company street; that men confined
to the company street do not leave the same without proper authority. He reports men who are
sick to the surgeon. He may be required to report all other details called for. He accompanies
the captain in his daily inspection of the company. He will not leave the company street during
his tour of duty except as provided above.

One or two privates are detailed daily as kitchen police. They go on duty at reveille. It is
their duty to assist the cooks in the kitchen. They assist in the preparation of meals, wait
on the table, wash dishes, procure water and wood, chop firewood, and keep the kitchen, mess
tent, and surrounding ground policed. They are under the orders of the mess sergeant and the cooks.

Rifles need careful attention in camp. They should be cleaned and oiled daily, preferably just
before retreat or parade. It is advisable for each man to have a canvas cover to keep off the
dust and dampness. In a shelter-tent camp tie the rifle, muzzle up, to the pole of the tent,
placing a chip of wood under the butt plate and an oily rag over (never inside) the muzzle.

Wet shoes should be filled with oats or dry sand, and set in a cool place to dry. Never dry
them by a fire.

Uniforms need special care, as camp service is very hard on them. In a permanent camp every
man should have two pair of breeches. The coat will seldom be worn except at parade or retreat.
One pair of breeches and the coat should be kept neat, clean, and pressed for use on ceremonies,
inspections, and when going on pass. Woolen uniforms may be cleaned and freed from spots by
rubbing with a flannel rag saturated with gasoline. Cotton uniforms may be washed with water,
soap, and a scrubbing brush, wrung out, and stretched, properly creased, on a flat wood surface
in the sun to dry. Leggings can be similarly washed. Hats should be cleaned with gasoline,
and dampened and ironed to restore their shape.

Enlisted men should be very careful to observe all the sanitary regulations of the camp. Flies
are the greatest spreaders of camp disease. All fecal matter and food should be carefully guarded
from them. In camps extreme precautions are taken to screen the sinks and kitchens from flies,
and all enlisted men should cooperate in the effort to make these precautions successful. One
fly carrying germs on his feet from the sinks to the food can start a serious and fatal epidemic
in a camp. Defecating on the ground in the vicinity of camp or urinating in camp are extremely
dangerous to the health of the command, and are serious military offenses. At night a urinal
can is provided in each company street.

In a permanent camp cots or bed sacks are usually provided for the men to sleep on. In a shelter
tent camp beds should be made of hay, grass, leaves, pine or spruce boughs, or pine needles,
on top of which the poncho and blanket are spread, thus softening the ground and keeping the
sleeper away from the cold and dampness. Neglect to prepare the bed when sleeping without cot
or bed sack means a loss of sleep, and may lead to colds, bowel disorders, and rheumatism.

In wet weather tents should be ditched, and in windy or cold weather dirt may be banked around
them. A place for washing the person and clothes should be arranged for in each company street,
and the waste water disposed of by means of drainage or rock-filled pits. In dry weather the
streets in camp should frequently be sprinkled with water to keep down the dust. This is specially
necessary around the kitchen.

Effective rifle fire is generally what counts most in battle. To have effective rifle fire,
the men on the firing line must be able to HIT what they are ordered to shoot at. There is
no man who can not be taught how to shoot. It is not necessary or even desirable to begin instruction
by firing on a rifle range. A perfectly green recruit who has never fired a rifle may be made
into a good shot by a little instruction and some preliminary drills and exercises.

Before a man goes on the range to fire it is absolutely necessary that he should know--

  1. How to set the rear sight.
  2. How to sight or aim.
  3. How to squeeze the trigger.
  4. How to hold the rifle in all positions.

If he does not know these things it is worse than useless for him to fire. He will not improve;
the more he shoots the worse he will shoot, and it will become more difficult to teach him.

SECTION 2. SIGHT ADJUSTMENT.

Men must be able to adjust their sights correctly and quickly. An error in adjustment so small
that one can scarcely see it on the sight leaf is sufficient to cause a miss at an enemy at
500 yards and over.

Notice your rear sight. When the leaf is laid down the BATTLE SIGHT appears on top. This sight
is set for 547 yards and is not adjustable. When the leaf is raised four sights come into view.
The extreme range sight for 2,850 yards at the top of the leaf is seldom used. The open sight
at the upper edge of the drift slide is adjustable from 1,400 to 2,750 yards. To set it the
upper edge of the slide is made to correspond with the range reading on the leaf, and the slide
is then clamped with the slide screw. This sight also is seldom used. The open sight at the
bottom of the triangular opening in the drift slide is adjustable from 100 to 2,450 yards.
To set it the index line at the lower corners of the triangle is set opposite the range graduation
on the leaf and the slide clamped. This and the peep sight just below it are the sights most
commonly used. To set the peep sight, the index lines on either side of the peephole are set
opposite the range desired and the slide clamped.

Notice the scales for the various ranges on either side of the face of the leaf. The odd-numbered
hundreds of yards are on the right and the even on the left. The line below the number is the
index line for that range. Thus to set the sight for 500 yards the index line of the slide
is brought in exact line with the line on the leaf below the figure 5 and the slide clamped.
To set for 550 yards the index lines of the slide are set half way between the index lines
on the leaf below the figure 5 on the right side and the figure 6 on the left side. Look at
your sight carefully when setting it and take great pains to get it exact. An error in setting
the width of one of the lines on the leaf will cause an error of about 8 inches in where your
bullet will strike at 500 yards.

The WIND GAUGE is adjusted by means of the windage screw at the right front end of the base
of the sight. Each graduation on the wind-gauge scale is called a "point." For convenience
in adjusting the line of each third point on the scale is longer than the others. If you turn
the windage screw so that the movable base moves to the right, you are taking right windage,
which will cause your rifle to shoot more to the right.

It is seldom that a rifle will shoot correctly to the point aimed at at a given range with
the sights adjusted exactly to the scale graduations for that range. If your sight is not correctly
adjusted for your shooting and you wish to move it slightly to make it correct, remember to
move it in the direction you wish your shot to hit. If you wish to shoot higher raise your
sight. If to the right, move the wind gauge to the right. Always move your sight the correct
amount in accordance with the following table:

SECTION 3. TABLE OF SIGHT CORRECTIONS.

Showingtowhatextentthepointofimpactismovedbyachange of25yardsinelevationor1pointinwindage.

              Correction      Correction
              by a change     by a change
   Range.     in elevation    in windage
              of 25 yards.    of 1 point.
  --------   --------------  -------------
  Yards.      Inches.       Inches.
     100           0.72             4
     200           1.62             8
     300           2.79            12
     400           4.29            16
     500           6.22            20
     600           8.59            24
     800          15.43            32
   1,000          25.08            40

An easy rule to remember the windage correction by is: "A change of 1 point of wind changes
the point of impact 4 inches for every 100 yards of range."

Copy this table and take it to the range with you.

Example of sight adjustment: Suppose you are firing at 500 yards. The first two or three shots
show you that your shots are hitting about a foot below and a foot to the right of the center
of the bull's-eye. From the above table you will see that if you will raise your sight 50 yards
and move the wind gauge half a point to the left the rifle will be sighted so that if you aim
correctly the bullets will hit well inside the bull's eye.

SECTION 4. AIMING.

OPEN SIGHT: Always align your sights with the front sight squarely in the middle of the "U"
or notch of the rear sight, and the top of the front sight even with the upper corners of the
"U." (See fig. 1.) All the sights on the rifle except the peep sight are open sights.

PEEP SIGHT: Always center the tip of the front sight in the center of the peephole when aiming
with this sight. (See fig. 2.)

Always aim below the bull's-eye. Never let your front sight appear to touch the bull's-eye
in aiming. Try to see the same amount of white target between the top of the front sight and
the bottom of the bull's-eye each time. The eye must be focused on the bull's-eye or mark and
not on the front or rear sight.

Look at figures 1 and 2 until your eye retains the memory of them, then try to duplicate the
picture every time you aim. Aim consistently, always the same. Never change your aim; change
your sight adjustment if your shots are not hitting in the right place.

SECTION 5. BATTLE SIGHT.

The battle sight is the open sight seen when the leaf is laid flat. It is adjusted for a range
of 547 yards. It is intended to be used in battle, when you get nearer to the enemy than 600
yards. Always aim at the belt of a standing enemy, or just below him if he is kneeling, sitting,
or lying. On the target range this sight is used for rapid fire. With it the rifle shoots about
2 feet high at ranges between 200 and 400 yards, so you must aim below the figure on the target
"D." Find out in four instruction practice just how much you must aim below to hit the figure.

SECTION 6. TRIGGER SQUEEZE.

Use the first joint of the fore finger to squeeze the trigger. It is the most sensitive and
best controlled portion of the body. As you place the rifle to your shoulder squeeze the trigger
so as to pull it back about one-eighth of an inch, thus taking up the safety portion, or slack,
of the pull. Put absolutely all your mind and will power into holding the rifle steady and
squeezing the trigger off without disturbing the aim. Practice squeezing the trigger in this
way every time you have your rifle in your hand until you can surely and quickly do it without
a suspicion of a jerk.

SECTION 7. FIRING POSITIONS.

When in ranks at close order the positions are those described in the Infantry Drill Regulations.
When in extended order, or when firing alone, these positions may be modified somewhat to better
suit the individual. The following remarks on the various positions are offered as suggestions
whereby steady positions may be learned by the soldier.

STANDING POSITION: Face the target, then execute right half face. Plant the feet about 12 inches
apart. As you raise the ride to the shoulder lean very slightly backward just enough to preserve
the perfect balance on both feet which the raising of the rifle has somewhat disturbed. Do
not lean far back, and do not lean forward at all. If your body is out of balance it will be
under strain and you will tremble. The right elbow should be at about the height of the shoulder.
The left hand should grasp well around the stock and handguard in front of the rear sight,
and the left elbow should be almost directly under the rifle. The right hand should do more
than half the work of holding the rifle up and against the shoulder, the left hand only steadying
and guiding the piece. Do not try to meet the recoil; let the whole body move back with it.
Do not be afraid to press the jaw hard against the stock; this steadies the position, and the
head goes back with the recoil and insures that your face is not hurt.

KNEELING POSITION: Assume the position very much as described in the Infantry Drill Regulations.
Sit on the right heel. The right knee should point directly to the right, that is, along the
firing line. The point of the left elbow should rest over the left knee. There is a flat place
under the elbow which fits a flat place on the knee and makes a solid rest. Lean the body well
forward. This position is uncomfortable until practiced, when it quickly ceases to be uncomfortable.

SITTING POSITION: Sit down half faced to the right, feet from 6 to 8 inches apart, knees bent,
right knee slightly higher than the left, left leg pointed toward the target. Rest both elbows
on the knees, hands grasping the piece the same as in the prone position. This is a very steady
position, particularly if holes can be found or made in the ground for the heels.

PRONE POSITION AND USE OF THE GUN SLING: To adjust the sling for firing, unhook the straight
strap of the sling and let it out as far as it will go. Adjust the loop so that when stretched
along the bottom of the stock its rear end (bight) comes about opposite the comb of the stock.
A small man needs a longer loop than a tall man. Lie down facing at an angle of about 60° to
the right of the direction of the target. Spread the legs as wide apart as they will go with
comfort. Thrust the left arm through between the rifle and the sling, and then back through
the loop of the sling, securing the loop, by means of the keeper, around the upper left arm
as high up as it will go. Pass the hand under and then over the sling from the left side, and
grasp the stock and handguard just in rear of the lower band. Raise the right elbow off the
ground, rolling slightly over on the left side. Place the butt to the shoulder and roll back
into position, clamping the rifle hard and steady in the firing position. The rifle should
rest deep down in the palm of the left hand with fingers almost around the handguard. Shift
the left palm a little to the right or left until the rifle stands perfectly upright (no cant)
without effort. The left elbow should rest on the ground directly under the rifle, and right
elbow on the ground about 5 inches to the right of a point directly under the stock. In this
position the loop of the sling, starting at the lower band, passes to the right of the left
wrist, and thence around the left upper arm. The loop should be so tight that about 50 pounds
tension is placed on it when the position is assumed. This position is uncomfortable until
practiced, when it quickly ceases to be uncomfortable. It will be steadier if small holes can
be found or dug in the ground for the elbows. In this position the sling binds the left forearm
to the rifle and to the ground so that it forms a dead rest for the rifle, with a universal
joint, the wrist, at its upper end. Also the rifle is so bound to the shoulder that the recoil
is not felt at all. This is the steadiest of all firing positions.

The gun sling can also be used in this manner with advantage in the other positions.

SECTION 8. CALLING THE SHOT.

It is evident that the sights should be so adjusted at each range that the rifle will hit where
you aim. In order to determine that the sights are so adjusted it is necessary that you shall
know each time just where you were aiming on the target at the instant your rifle was discharged.
If you know this and your rifle hits this point your rifle is correctly sighted. If your shot
does not hit near this point, you should change your sight adjustment in accordance with the
table of sight corrections in section 3.

No man can hold absolutely steady. The rifle trembles slightly, and the sights seem to wobble
and move over the target. You try to squeeze off the last ounce of the trigger squeeze just
as the sights move to the desired alignment under the bull's-eye. At this instant, just before
the recoil blots out a view of the sights and target, you should catch with your eye a picture,
as it were, of just where on the target your sights were aligned, and call to yourself or to
the coach this point. This point is where your shot should strike if your sights are correctly
adjusted, and if you have squeezed the trigger without disturbing your aim. Until a man can
call his shots he is not a good shot, for he can never tell if his rifle is sighted right or
not, or if a certain shot is a good one or only the result of luck.

SECTION 9. COORDINATION.

Good marksmanship consists in learning thoroughly the details of--

  Holding the rifle in the various positions.
  Aiming.
  Squeezing the trigger.
  Calling the shot.
  Adjusting the sights.

And, when these have been mastered in detail, then the coordination of them in the act of firing.
This coordination consists in putting absolutely all of one's will power into an effort to
hold the rifle steadily, especially in getting it to steady down when the aim is perfected;
in getting the trigger squeezed off easily at the instant the rifle is steadiest and the aim
perfected; in calling the shot at this instant; and, if the shot does not hit near the point
called, then in adjusting the sights the correct amount so that the rifle will be sighted to
hit where you aim.

SECTION 10. ADVICE TO RIFLEMEN.

Before going to the range clean the rifle carefully, removing every trace of oil from the bore.
This can best be done with a rag saturated with gasoline. Put a light coat of oil on the bolt
and cams. Blacken the front and rear sights with smoke from a burning candle or camphor or
with liquid sight black.

Look through the bore and see that there is no obstruction in it.

Keep the rifle off the ground; the stock may absorb dampness, the sights may be injured, or
the muzzle filled with dirt.

Watch your hold carefully and be sure to know where the line of sight is at discharge. It is
only in this way that the habit of calling shots, which is essential to good shooting, can
be acquired.

Study the conditions, adjust the sling, and set the sight before going to the firing point.

Look at the sight adjustment before each shot and see that it has not changed.

If sure of your hold and if the hit is not as called, determine and make FULL correction in
elevation and windage to put the next shot in the bull's-eye.

Keep a written record of the weather conditions and the corresponding elevation and windage
for each day's firing.

Less elevation will generally be required on hot days; on wet days; in a bright sunlight; with
a 6 o'clock wind; or with a cold barrel.

More elevation will generally be required on cold days; on very dry days; with a 12 o'clock
wind; with a hot barrel; in a dull or cloudy light.

The upper band should not be tight enough to bind the barrel.

Do not put a cartridge into the chamber until ready to fire. Do not place cartridges in the
sun. They will get hot and shoot high.

Do not rub the eyes--especially the sighting eye.

In cold weather warm the trigger hand before shooting.

After shooting, clean the rifle carefully and then oil it to prevent rust.

Have a strong, clean cloth that will not tear and jam, properly cut to size, for use in cleaning.

Always clean the rifle from the breech, using a brass cleaning rod when available. An injury
to the rifling at the muzzle causes the piece to shoot very irregularly.

Regular physical exercise, taken systematically, will cause a marked improvement in shooting.

Frequent practice of the "Position and aiming drills" is of the greatest help in preparing
for shooting on the range.

RAPID FIRING: Success is rapid firing depends upon catching a quick and accurate aim, holding
the piece firmly and evenly, and in squeezing the trigger without a jerk.

In order to give as much time as possible for aiming accurately, the soldier must practice
taking position, loading with the clip, and working the bolt, so that no time will be lost
in these operations. With constant practice all these movements may be made quickly and without
false motions.

When the bolt handle is raised, it must be done with enough force to start the shell from the
chamber; and when the bolt is pulled back, it must be with sufficient force to throw the empty
shell well away from the chamber and far enough to engage the next cartridge.

In loading, use force enough to load each cartridge with one motion.

The aim must be caught quickly, and, once caught, must be held and the trigger squeezed steadily.
Rapid firing, as far as holding, aim, and squeezing the trigger are concerned, should be done
with all the precision of slow fire. The gain in time should be in getting ready to fire, loading,
and working the bolt.

FIRING WITH RESTS: In order that the shooting may be uniform the piece should always be rested
at the same point.

SECTION 11. THE COURSE IN SMALL-ARMS FIRING.

The course in small-arms firing consists of--

  (a) Nomenclature and care of rifle.
  (f) Estimating distance drill.
  (g) Individual known-distance firing, instruction practice.
  (h) Individual known-distance firing, record practice.
  (i) Long-distance practice.
  (j) Practice with telescopic sights.
  (k) Instruction combat practice.
  (l) Combat practice.
  (m) Proficiency test.

The regulations governing these are found in Small Arms Firing Manual, 1913. There should be
several copies of this manual in every company.

SECTION 12. TARGETS.

The accompanying plates show the details and size of the targets:

SECTION 13. PISTOL AND REVOLVER PRACTICE.[8]

[Footnote 8: Whenever in these regulations the word "pistol" appears the regulation applies
with equal force to the revolver, if applicable to that weapon.]

135.[9] NOMENCLATURE AND CARE OF THE WEAPON; HANDLING AND PRECAUTIONS AGAINST ACCIDENTS.--The
soldier will first be taught the nomenclature of those parts of the weapon necessary to an
understanding of its action and use and the proper measures for its care and preservation.
Ordnance pamphlets Nos. 1866 (description of the Colt's automatic pistol), 1919, and 1927 (description
of the Colt's revolver, calibers .38 and .45, respectively) contain full information on this
subject, and are furnished to organizations armed with these weapons.

[Footnote 9: The number refer to paragraphs in the Small Arms Firing Manual, 1918.]

Careless handling of the pistol or revolver is the cause of many accidents and results in broken
parts of the mechanism. The following rules will, if followed, prevent much trouble of this
character:

(a) On taking the PISTOL from the armrack or holster, take out the magazine and see that it
is empty before replacing it; then draw back the slide and make sure that the piece is unloaded.
Observe the same precaution after practice on the target range, and again before replacing
the pistol in the holster or in the armrack. When taking the REVOLVER from the armrack or holster
and before returning it to the same, open the cylinder and eject empty shells and cartridges.
Before beginning a drill and upon arriving on the range observe the same precaution.

(b) Neither load nor cock the weapon until the moment of firing, nor until a run in the mounted
course is started.

(c) Always keep the pistol or revolver in the position of "Raise pistol" (par. 146, Cavalry
Drill Regulations, 1916), except when it is pointed at the target. (The position of "Lower
pistol" is authorized for mounted firing only.)

(d) Do not place the weapon on the ground where sand or earth can enter the bore or mechanism.

(e) Before loading the PISTOL, draw back the slide and look through the bore to see that it
is free from obstruction. Before loading the REVOLVER, open the cylinder and look through the
bore to see that it is free from obstruction. When loading[10] the pistol for target practice
place five cartridges in the magazine and insert the magazine in the handle; draw back the
slide and insert the first cartridge in the chamber and carefully lower[11] the hammer fully down.

[Footnote 10: TO LOAD PISTOL: Being at raise pistol (right hand grasping stock at the height
of and 6 inches in front of the point of the right shoulder, forefinger alongside barrel, barrel
to the rear and inclined forward about 30°).

Without deranging position of the hand, rotate the pistol so the sights move to the left, the
barrel pointing to the right front and up.

With the thumb and forefinger of the left hand (thumb to the right) grasp the slide and pull
it toward the body until it stops, and then release it. The pistol is thus loaded, and the
hammer at full cock.

If the pistol is to be kept in the hand and not to be fired at once, engage the safety lock
with the thumb of the right hand.

If the pistol is to be carried in the holster, remove safety lock, if on, and lower the hammer
fully down.]

[Footnote 11: TO LOWER THE HAMMER: Being at the loading position at full cock.

I. Firmly seat thumb of right hand on the hammer: insert forefinger inside trigger guard.

II. With thumb of left hand exert a momentary pressure on the grip-safety to release hammer
from sear.

III. At the same instant exert pressure or the trigger and carefully and slowly lower the hammer
fully down.

IV. Remove finger from trigger.

V. Insert pistol in holster.

CAUTION.--The pistol must never be placed in the holster until hammer is fully down.]

In loading the REVOLVER place five cartridges in the cylinder and let the hammer down on the
EMPTY CHAMBER.

(f) Whenever the pistol is being LOADED or UNLOADED, the muzzle must be kept up.

(g) Do not point the weapon in any direction where an accidental discharge might do harm.

(h) After loading do not cock the pistol or the revolver until ready to fire.

(i) Keep the working parts properly lubricated.

136. POSITION, DISMOUNTED.--Stand firmly on both feet, body perfectly balanced and erect and
turned at such an angle as is most comfortable when the arm is extended toward the target;
the feet far enough apart to insure firmness and steadiness or position (about 8 to 10 inches);
weight of body borne equally upon both feet; right arm fully extended, left arm hanging naturally.

REMARKS.--The right arm may be slightly bent, although the difficulty of holding the pistol
uniformly and of keeping it as well as the forearm in the same vertical plane makes this objectionable.

137. THE GRIP.--Grasp the stock as high as possible with the thumb and last three fingers,
the forefinger alongside the trigger guard, the thumb extended along the stock. The barrel,
hand, and forearm should be as nearly in one line as possible when the weapon is pointed toward
the target. The grasp should not be so tight as to cause tremors of the hand or arm to be communicated
to the weapon, but should be firm enough to avoid losing the grip when the recoil takes place.

REMARKS.--The force of recoil of the pistol or revolver is exerted in a line above the hand
which grasps the stock. The lower the stock is grasped the greater will be the movement or
"jump" of the muzzle caused by the recoil. This not only results in a severe strain upon the
wrist, but in loss of accuracy.

If the hand be placed so that the grasp is on one side of the stock, the recoil will cause
a rotary movement of the weapon toward the opposite side.

The releasing of the sear causes a slight movement of the muzzle, generally to the left. The
position of the thumb along the stock overcomes much of this movement. The soldier should be
encouraged to practice this method of holding until it becomes natural.

To do uniform shooting the weapon must be held with exactly the same grip for each shot. Not
only must the hand grasp the stock at the same point for each shot, but the tension of the
grip must be uniform.

138. (a) THE TRIGGER SQUEEZE.--The trigger must be squeezed in the same manner as in rifle
dring. (See Chapter VIII, section 6.) The pressure of the forefinger on the trigger should
be steadily increased and should be straight back, not sideways. The pressure should continue
to that point beyond which the slightest movement will release the sear. Then, when the aim
is true, the additional pressure is applied and the pistol fired.

Only by much practice can the soldier become familiar with the trigger squeeze. This is essential
to accurate shooting. It is the most important detail to master in pistol or revolver shooting.

(b) SELF-COCKING ACTION.--The force required to squeeze the trigger of the revolver when the
self-cocking device is used is considerably greater than with the single action. To accustom
a soldier to the use of the self-cocking mechanism, and also to strengthen and develop the
muscles of the hand, a few minutes practice daily in holding the unloaded revolver on a mark
and snapping it, using the self-cocking mechanism, is recommended. The use of the self-cocking
device in firing is not recommended except in emergency. By practice in cocking the revolver
the soldier can become sufficiently expert to fire very rapidly, using single action, while
his accuracy will be greater than when using double action.

139. AIMING.--Except when delivering rapid or quick fire, the rear and front sights of the
pistol are used in the same manner as the rifle sights. The normal sight is habitually used
(see Pl. VI), and the line of sight is directed upon a point just under the bull's-eye at "6
o'clock." The front sight must be seen through the middle of the rear-sight notch, the top
being on a line with the top of the notch. Care must be taken not to cant the pistol to either
side.[12]

[Footnote 12: The instructor should take cognizance of the fact that the proper aiming point
is often affected by the personal and fixed peculiarities of the firer, and if unable to correct
such abnormalities, permit firer to direct sight at such point as promises effective results.]

If the principles of aiming have not been taught, the soldier's instruction will begin with
sighting drills as prescribed for the rifle so far as they may be applicable. The sighting
bar with open sight will be used to teach the normal sight and to demonstrate errors likely
to be committed.

To construct a sighting rest for the pistol (see Pl. VI) take a piece of wood about 10 inches
long, 1-1/4 inches wide, and 9/16 inch thick. Shape one end so that it will fit snugly in the
handle of the pistol when the magazine has been removed. Screw or nail this stick to the top
of a post or other object at such an angle that the pistol when placed on the stick will be
approximately horizontal. A suitable sighting rest for the revolver may be easily improvised.

140. (a) HOW TO COCK THE PISTOL.--The pistol should be cocked by the thumb of the right hand
and with the least possible derangement of the grip. The forefinger should be clear of the
trigger when cocking the pistol. Some men have difficulty at first in cocking the pistol with
the right thumb. This can be overcome by a little practice. Jerking the pistol forward while
holding the thumb on the hammer will not be permitted.

(b) HOW TO COCK THE REVOLVER.--The revolver should be cocked by putting the thumb on the hammer
at as nearly a right angle to the hammer as possible, and by the action of the thumb muscles
alone bringing the hammer back to the position of full cock. Some men with large hands are
able to cock the revolver with the thumb while holding it in the position of aim or raise pistol.
Where the soldier's hand is small this can not be done, and in this case it assists the operation
to give the revolver a slight tilt to the right and upward (to the right). Particular care
should be taken that the forefinger is clear of the trigger or the cylinder will not revolve.
Jerking the revolver forward while holding the thumb on the hammer will not be permitted.

141. POSITION AND AIMING DRILLS, DISMOUNTED.--For this instruction the squad will be formed
with an interval of 1 pace between files. Black pasters to simulate bull's-eyes will be pasted
opposite each man on the barrack or other wall, from which the squad is 10 paces distant.

The squad being formed as described above, the instructor gives the command: 1. Raise, 2. Pistol
(par. 156, Cavalry Drill Regulations), and cautions, "Position and aiming drill, dismounted."
The men take the positions described in paragraph 136, except that the pistol is held at "Raise
pistol."

The instructor cautions, "Trigger squeeze exercise." At the command READY, cock the weapon
as described in paragraph 140. At the command, 1. Squad, 2. FIRE, slowly extend the arm till
it is nearly horizontal, the pistol directed at a point about 6 inches below the bull's-eye.
At the same time put the forefinger inside the trigger guard and gradually "feel" the trigger.
Inhale enough air to comfortably fill the lungs and gradually raise the piece until the line
of sight is directed at the point of aim, i. e., just below the bull's-eye at 6 o'clock. While
the sights are directed upon the mark, gradually increase the pressure on the trigger until
it reaches that point where the slightest additional pressure will release the sear. Then,
when the aim is true, the additional pressure necessary to fire the piece is given so smoothly
as not to derange the alignment of the sights. The weapon will be held on the mark for an instant
after the hammer falls and the soldier will observe what effect, if any, the squeezing of the
trigger has had on his aim.

It is impossible to hold the arm perfectly still, but each time the line of sight is directed
on the point of aim a slight additional pressure is applied to the trigger until the piece
is finally discharged at one of the moments when the sights are correctly aligned upon the mark.

When the soldier has become proficient in taking the proper position, the trigger squeeze should
be executed at will. The instructor prefaces the preparatory command by "At will" and gives
the command HALT at the conclusion of the exercise, when the soldier will return to the position
of "Raise pistol."

At first this exercise should be executed with deliberation, but gradually the soldier will
be taught to catch the aim quickly and to lose no time in beginning the trigger squeeze and
bringing it to the point where the slightest additional pressure will release the sear.

REMARKS.--In service few opportunities will be offered for slow aimed fire with the pistol
or revolver, although use will be made of the weapon under circumstances when accurate pointing
and rapid manipulation are of vital importance.

In delivering a rapid fire, the soldier must keep his eyes fixed upon the mark and, after each
shot, begin a steadily increasing pressure on the trigger, trying at the same time to get the
sights as nearly on the mark as possible before the hammer again falls. The great difficulty
in quick firing with the pistol lies in the fact that when the front sight is brought upon
the mark, the rear sight is often found to be outside the line joining the eye with the mark.
This tendency to hold the pistol obliquely can be overcome only by a uniform manner of holding
and pointing. This uniformity is to be attained only by acquiring a grip which can be taken
with certainty each time the weapon is fired. It is this circumstance which makes the position
and aiming drills so important. The soldier should constantly practice pointing the pistol
until he acquires the ability to direct it on the mark in the briefest interval of time and
practically without the aid of sights.

The soldier then repeats the exercises with the pistol in the left hand, the left side being
turned toward the target.

142. TO DRAW AND FIRE QUICKLY--SNAP SHOOTING.--With the squad formed as described in paragraph
141 except that the pistol is in the holster and the flap, if any, buttoned, the instructor
cautions "Quick-fire exercise." And gives the command, 1. SQUAD; 2. Fire. At this command each
soldier, keeping his eye on the target, quickly draws his pistol, cocks it as in paragraph
140, thrusts it toward the target, squeezes the trigger, and at the instant the weapon is brought
in line with the eye and the objective increases the pressure, releasing the sear. To enable
the soldier to note errors in pointing, the weapon will be momentarily held in position after
the fall of the hammer. Efforts at deliberate aiming in this exercise must be discouraged.

Remarks under paragraph 141 are specially applicable also to this type of fire. When the soldier
has become proficient in the details of this exercise, it should be repeated at will; the instructor
cautions, "At will; quick fire exercise." The exercise should be practiced until the mind,
the eye, and trigger finger act in unison.

To simulate this type of fire mounted, the instructor places the squad so that the simulated
bull's-eyes are in turn, to the RIGHT, to the LEFT, to the RIGHT FRONT, to the LEFT FRONT,
to the RIGHT REAR. With the squad in one of these positions, the instructor cautions, "Position
and aiming drill, mounted." At this caution the right foot is carried 20 inches to the right
and the left hand to the position of the bridle hand (par. 246, Cavalry Drill Regulations).
The exercise is carried out as described for the exercise dismounted, using the commands and
means laid down in paragraphs 161 to 168, inclusive, Cavalry Drill Regulations, for firing
in the several directions. The exercise is to be executed at will when the squad has been sufficiently
well instructed in detail.

When firing to the left the pistol hand will be about opposite the left shoulder and the shoulders
turned about 45° to the left; when firing to the right rear the shoulders are turned about
45° to the right.

When the soldier is proficient in these exercises with the pistol in the right hand, they are
repeated with the pistol in the left hand.

REVOLVER OR PISTOL RANGE PRACTICE.--The courses in range practice are given in paragraphs 147
to 199, Small Arms Firing Manual, 1913.

CHAPTER IX.

EXTRACTS FROM MANUAL OF INTERIOR GUARD DUTY.

UNITED STATES ARMY, 1914.

[The numbers refer to paragraphs in the Manual.]

SECTION 1. INTRODUCTION.

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

SECTION 2. CLASSIFICATION OF INTERIOR GUARDS.

6. DETAILS AND ROSTERS.

7.

8. While the desirability of this type of duty is recognized, it should only be put in practice
to an extent sufficient to insure thorough instruction in this method of performing guard duty
and should not be the routine method of its performance. The usual guard duty will be performed
by watchmen, patrols, or such method as, in the opinion of the commanding officer, may best
secure results under the particular local conditions.

9. It is directed that whenever possible such guards shall be furnished by a single company,
for the reason that if guard details are taken from each organization at a post of two companies,
troops, or batteries it will result in both being so reduced as to seriously interfere with
drill and instruction, whereas if details are taken from only one, the other is available for
instruction at full strength.

10. At a post or camp where the headquarters of more than one regiment are stationed, or in
the case of a small brigade in the field, if but one guard be necessary for the whole command,
the details will be made from the headquarters of the command.

If formal guard mounting is to be held, the adjutant, sergeant major, and band to attend guard
mounting will be designated by the commanding officer.

11. When a single organization furnishes the guard, a roster of organizations will be kept
by the sergeant major under the supervision of the adjutant. (See Appendix B.)

12. When the guard is detailed from several organizations, rosters will be kept by the adjutant,
of officers of the day and officers of the guard by name; by the sergeant major under the supervision
of the adjutant, of sergeants, corporals, musicians, and privates of the guard by number per
organization; and by first sergeants, of sergeants, corporals, musicians, and privates by name.
(See Appendix A.)

13. When organizations furnish their own stable, or stable and park guards, credit will be
given each for the number of enlisted men so furnished as though they had been detailed for
main guard.

14. Special guards, other than stable or park guards, will be credited the same as for main
guard, credited with fatigue duty, carried on special duty, or credited as the commanding officer
may direct. (Pars. 6, 221, 247, and 300.)

15. Captains will supervise the keeping of company rosters and see that all duties performed
are duly credited. (See pars. 355-364, A. R., for rules governing rosters, and Form 342, A.
G. O., for instructions as to how rosters should be kept.)

16.

17. When more than one guard is required for a command, a field officer of the day will be
detailed, who will receive his orders from the brigade or division commander, as the latter
may direct. When necessary captains may be placed on the roster for field officer of the day.

18.

19. Officers serving on staff departments are, in the discretion of the commanding officer,
exempt from guard duty.

20. Guard details will, if practicable, be posted or published the day preceding the beginning
of the tour, and officers notified personally by a written order at the same time.

21.

When this is not otherwise practicable, extra and special duty men will be detailed for night
guard duty, still performing their daily duties. When so detailed a roster will be kept by
the adjutant showing the duty performed by them.

22. The members of main guards and stable and park guards will habitually be relieved every
24 hours. The length of the tour of enlisted men detailed as special guards, other than stable
or park guards, will be so regulated as to permit of these men being held accountable for a
strict performance of their duty.

23. Should the officer of the day be notified that men are required to fill vacancies in the
guard, he will cause them to be supplied from the organization to which the guard belongs.
If none are available in that organization, the adjutant will be notified and will cause them
to be supplied from the organization that is next for guard. (Par. 68.)

24. The adjutant will have posted on the bulletin board at his office all data needed by company
commanders in making details from their companies.

At first sergeant's call, first sergeants will go to headquarters and take from the bulletin
board all data necessary for making the details required from their companies; these details
will be made from their company rosters.

25. In order to give ample notice, first sergeants will, when practicable, publish at retreat
and post on the company bulletin board all details made from the company for duties to be performed.

26. Where rosters are required to be kept by this manual, all details will be made by roster.

SECTION 4. COMMANDER OF THE GUARD.

41.

42.

43.

44.

45.

46.

47. When any alarm is raised in camp or garrison, the guard will be informed immediately.

48.

49.

50.

51.

52. 50.)

53.

54.

55.

56.

57. The guard will not be paraded during ceremonies unless directed by the commanding officer.

58.

59.

60.

61.

62. He will see that the proper calls are sounded at the hours appointed by the commanding officer.

63. ( Par. 23.)

64. He will, when the countersign is used (pars.

65. 338, 344, 345, and 346.) He will see that the flags are kept in the best condition possible,
and that they are never handled except in the proper performance of duty.

66.

67.

68.

69.

70.

71. He will inspect the guardrooms and cells, and the irons of such prisoners as may be ironed,
at least once during his tour, and at such other times as he may deem necessary.

72.

73.

74. When no special prisoner guard has been detailed (par.

75.

76. (See par. 241.)

77.

78.

79.

SECTION 5. SERGEANT OF THE GUARD.

80.

81.

82.

83.

84.

85.

86.

87.

88.

89.

90.

91.

92.

93.

94.

96.

97. 85.)

98.

99.

100. Right(orleft), 3. FACE, 4.

101. Right(orleft), 8. FACE.

The left or right half only of the guard, as indicated, executes the movement.

102. MARCH, 3. Guard, 4. HALT.

103.

SECTION 6. CORPORAL OF THE GUARD.

104.

105.

106.

107.

108.

109. When the relief arrives at six paces from a sentinel (see par. 172.)

110.

111.

112. Mounted sentinels are posted and relieved in accordance with the same principles.

113.

114.

115.

116.

117.

118.

119.

120.

121.

122.

123.

124.

125.

126.

127.

128.

129.

130.

131.

132.

133.

134.

135.

136.

137.

SECTION 7. MUSICIANS OF THE GUARD.

138. The musicians of the guard will sound calls as prescribed by the commanding officer.

139. ORDERLIES AND COLOR SENTINELS.

140.

141.

142.

143.

144.

145. When an orderly is ordered to carry a message, he will be careful to deliver it exactly
as it was given to him.

146.

147.

148.

149.

150.

151.

152.

153.

SECTION 9. PRIVATES OF THE GUARD.

154.

SECTION 10. ORDERS FOR SENTINELS.

155.

156.

REGULATIONS RELATING TO THE GENERAL ORDERS FOR SENTINELS.

No. 1: To take charge of this post and all Government property in view.

157.

158.

167.

168.

169.

170.

171. A sentinel will not divulge the countersign (pars.

172.

173.

174. 181.)

175.

176.

177. The salute is rendered at six paces; if the person to be saluted does not arrive within
that distance, then when he is nearest.

178.

If armed with a saber, he stands at a carry and salutes as before.

179.

180.

181.

182.

183. An officer is entitled to the compliments prescribed, whether in uniform or not.

184.

185.

186.

187. Who is there?"

188. 209 to 217), or, if no countersign be used, of being duly recognized. When this is done
the whole party is advanced, i. e., allowed to pass.

189.

190.

191.

192.

193.

194.

195.

196. A sentinel will never allow himself to be surprised, nor permit two parties to advance
upon him at the same time.

197.

198.

SPECIAL ORDERS FOR SENTINELS AT THE POST OF THE GUARD.

199.

200.

201.

202. 224.)

203.

204.

205.

206.

207.

208.

SECTION 11. COUNTERSIGNS AND PAROLES.

209. 171.)

210.

211.

212. 133.)

213.

214. The COUNTERSIGN is usually the name of a battle; the PAROLE, that of a general or other
distinguished person.

215.

216. If the countersign be lost, or if a member of the guard deserts with it, the commander
on the spot will substitute another for it and report the case at once to headquarters.

217.

SECTION 12. GUARD PATROLS.

218.

219.

220.

SECTION 13. WATCHMEN.

221.

SECTION 14. COMPLIMENTS FROM GUARDS.

222.

223.

224.

225.

227.

228.

229. 53.)

230.

GENERAL RULES CONCERNING GUARD DUTY.

232. Eighty-fiftharticleofwar.-- Any person subject to military law, except an officer, who
is found drunk on duty shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

233.

234.

235.

236. Permission to leave will not be granted except in cases of necessity.

237. 66.)

SECTION 15. PRISONERS.

238. Articles of war 69, 70, 71, 72, and 73 have special reference to the confinement of prisoners
and should be carefully borne in mind.

239. The commander of the guard will place a civilian in confinement on an order from higher
authority only, unless such civilian is arrested while in the act of committing some crime
within the limits of the military jurisdiction, in which case the commanding officer will be
immediately notified.

240. Except as provided in the sixty-eighth article of war, or when restraint is necessary,
no soldier will be confined without the order of an officer, who shall previously inquire into
his offense. (A. R. 930.)

241. An officer ordering a soldier into confinement will send, as soon as practicable, a written
statement, signed by himself, to the commander of the guard, setting forth the name, company,
and regiment of such soldier, and a brief statement of the alleged offense. It is a sufficient
statement of the offense to give the number and article of war under which the soldier is charged.

242. A prisoner, after his first day of confinement, and until his sentence has been duly promulgated,
is considered as held in confinement by the commanding officer. After due promulgation of his
sentence, the prisoner is held in confinement by authority of the officer who reviews the proceedings
of the court awarding sentence. The commander of the guard will state in his report, in the
proper place, the name of the officer by whom the prisoner was originally confined.

243. Enlisted men against whom charges have been preferred will be designated as "awaiting
trial"; enlisted men who have been tried will, prior to the promulgation of the result, be
designated as "awaiting result of trial"; enlisted men serving sentences of confinement not
involving dishonorable discharge, will be designated as "garrison prisoners." Persons sentenced
to dismissal or dishonorable discharge and to terms of confinement at military posts or elsewhere
will be designated as "general prisoners." (A. R. 928.)

244. The sentences of prisoners will be read to them when the order promulgating the same is
received. The officer of the guard, or the officer of the day if there be no officer of the
guard, will lead them unless the commanding officer shall direct otherwise.

245. When the date for the commencement of a term of confinement imposed by sentence of a court-martial
is not expressly fixed by sentence, the term of confinement begins on the date of the officer
promulgating it. The sentence is continuous until the term expires, except when the person
sentenced is absent without authority. (A. R. 969.)

246. When soldiers awaiting trial or the result of trial, or undergoing sentence commit offenses
for which they are tried, the second sentence will be executed upon the expiration of the first.

247. Prisoners awaiting trial by, or undergoing sentence of, a general court-martial and those
confined for serious offenses will be kept apart, when practicable, from those confined by
sentence of an inferior court or for minor offenses. Enlisted men in confinement for minor
offenses, or awaiting trial or the result of trial for the same, will ordinarily be sent to
work under charge of unarmed overseers instead of armed sentinels and will be required attend
drills unless the commanding officer shall direct otherwise.

248. Prisoners, other than general prisoners, will be furnished with food from their respective
companies or from the organizations to which they may be temporarily attached.

The food of prisoners will, when practicable, be sent to their places of confinement, but post
commanders may arrange to send the prisoners, under proper guard, to their messes for meals.

When there is no special mess for general prisoners, they will be attached for rations to companies.

Enlisted men bringing meals for the prisoners will not be allowed to enter the prison room.
(See par. 289.)

249. With the exception of those specially designated by the commanding officer, no prisoners
will be allowed to leave the guardhouse unless under charge of a sentinel and passed by an
officer or noncommissioned officer of the guard. The commanding officer may authorize certain
garrison prisoners and paroled general prisoners to leave the guardhouse, not under the charge
of a sentinel, for the purpose of working outside under such surveillance and restrictions
as he may impose.

250. Prisoners reporting themselves sick at sick cull, or at the time designated by the commanding
officer, will be sent to the hospital under charge of proper guard, with a sick report kept
for the purpose. The recommendation of the surgeon will be entered in the guard report.

251. The security of sick prisoners in the hospital devolves upon the post surgeon, who will,
if necessary, apply to the post commander for a guard.

252. Prisoners will be paraded with the guard only when directed by the commanding officer
or the officer of the day.

253. A prisoner under charge of a sentinel will not salute an officer.

254. All serviceable clothing which belongs to a prisoner, and his blankets, will accompany
him to the post designated for his confinement, and will be fully itemized on the clothing
list sent to that post. The guard in charge of the prisoner during transfer will be furnished
with a duplicate of this list, and will be held responsible for the delivery of all articles
itemized therein with the prisoner. At least one serviceable woolen blanket will be sent with
every such prisoner so transferred. (A.R. 939.)

255. When mattresses are not supplied, each prisoner in the guardhouse will be allowed a bed
sack and 30 pounds of straw per month for bedding. So far as practicable iron bunks will be
furnished to all prisoners in post guardhouses and prison room. (A. R. 1084.)

256. If the number of prisoners, including general prisoners, confined at a post justifies
it, the commanding officer will detail a commissioned officer as "officer in charge of prisoners."
At posts where the average number of prisoners continually in confinement is less than 12,
the detail of an officer in charge of prisoners will not be made.

SECTION 16. GUARDING PRISONERS.

299. (Pars.

300. (Par. 247.)

301.

302.

303.

304. 306.)

305.

The following will more fully explain the important duties of a sentinel in this connection:

(Circular.)                      WAR DEPARTMENT.
                           ADJUTANT GENERAL'S OFFICE,
                           Washington,November1,1887.

By direction of the Secretary of War, the following is published for the information of the Army:

UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT, EASTERN DISTRICT OF MICHIGAN, AUGUST 1, 1887.

THE UNITED STATES V. JAMES CLARK.

The circuit court has jurisdiction of a homicide committed by one soldier upon another within
a military reservation of the United States.

If a homicide be committed by a military guard without malice and in the performance of his
supposed duty as a soldier, such homicide is excusable, unless it was manifestly beyond the
scope of his authority or was such that a man of ordinary sense and understanding would know
that it was illegal.

It seems that the sergeant of the guard has a right to shoot a military convict if there be
no other possible means of preventing his escape.

The common-law distinction between felonies and misdemeanors has no application to military
offenses.

While the finding of a court of inquiry acquitting the prisoner of all blame is not a legal
bar to a prosecution, it is entitled to weight as an expression of the views of the military
court of the necessity of using a musket to prevent the escape of the deceased.

       *       *       *       *       *

By order of the Secretary of War:
                               R. C. DRUM, AdjutantGeneral.

The following is taken from Circular No. 3, of 1883, from Headquarters Department of the Columbia:

                  VANCOUVER BARRACKS, W. T., April20,1883.

To the ASSISTANT ADJUTANT GENERAL,
                    DepartmentoftheColumbia.

SIR:

       *       *       *       *       *

A sentinel is placed as guard over prisoners to prevent their escape, and, for this purpose,
he is furnished a musket, with ammunition. To prevent escape is his first and most important duty.

       *       *       *       *       *

I suppose the law to be this: That a sentinel shall not use more force or violence to prevent
the escape of a prisoner than is necessary to effect that object, but if the prisoner, after
being ordered to halt, continues his flight the sentinel may maim or even kill him, and it
is his duty to do so.

A sentinel who allows a prisoner to escape without firing upon him, and firing to hit him,
is, in my judgment, guilty of a most serious military offense, for which he should and would
be severely punished by a general court-martial.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    (Signed) HENRY A. MORROW,
            ColonelTwenty-firstInfantry,CommandingPost.

[Third indorsement.]

                                     OFFICE JUDGE ADVOCATE,
                              MILITARY DIVISION OF THE PACIFIC,
                                             May11,1883.

Respectfully returned to the assistant adjutant general, Military Division of the Pacific,
concurring fully in the views expressed by Col. Morrow. I was not aware that such a view had
ever been questioned. That the period is a time of peace does not affect the authority and
duty of the sentinel or guard to fire upon the escaping prisoner, if this escape can not otherwise
be prevented. He should, of course, attempt to stop the prisoner before firing by ordering
him to halt, and will properly warn him by the words "Halt, or I fire," or words to such effect.

                             W. WINTHROP, JudgeAdvocate.

[Fourth indorsement.]

                 HEADQUARTERS MILITARY DIVISION OF THE PACIFIC,
                                               May11,1883.

Respectfully returned to the commanding general, Department of the Columbia, approving the
opinion of the commanding officer, Twenty-first Infantry, and of the judge advocate of the
division, in respect to the duty of and method to be adopted by sentinels in preventing prisoners
from escaping.

       *       *       *       *       *

By command of Maj. Gen. Schofield:
                                               J. C. KELTON,
                                  AssistantAdjutantGeneral.

See also Circular No. 53, A. G. O., December 22, 1900.

306.

307.

SECTION 17. FLAGS.

337. The garrison, post, and storm flags are national flags and shall be of bunting. The union
of such is as described in paragraph 216, Army Regulations, and shall be of the following proportions:
Width, seven-thirteenths of the hoist of the flag; length, seventy-six one-hundredths of the
hoist of the flag.

The garrison flag will have 38 feet fly and 20 feet hoist. It will be furnished only to posts
designated in orders from time to time from the War Department, and will be hoisted only on
holidays and important occasions.

The post flag will have 19 feet fly and 10 feet hoist. It will be furnished for all garrison
posts and will be hoisted in pleasant weather.

The storm flag will have 9 feet 6 inches fly and 5 feet hoist. It will be furnished for all
occupied posts for use in stormy and windy weather. It will also be furnished to national cemeteries.
(A. R. 223.)

338. At every military post or station the flag will be hoisted at the sounding of the first
note of the reveille, or of the first note of the march, if a march be played before the reveille.

339. The national flag will be displayed at a seacoast or lake fort at the beginning of and
during an action in which a fort may be engaged, whether by day or by night. (A. R. 437.)

340. The national flag will always be displayed at the time of firing a salute. (A. R. 397.)

341. The flag of a military post will not be dipped by way of salute or compliment. (A. R. 405.)

342. On the death of an officer at a military post the flag is displayed at halfstaff and so
remains between reveille and retreat until the last salvo or volley is fired over the grave;
or if the remains are not interred at the post until they are removed therefrom. (A. R. 422.)

343. During the funeral of all enlisted man at a military post the flag is displayed at halfstaff.
It is hoisted to the top after the final volley or gun is fired or after the remains are taken
from the post. The same honors are paid on the occasion of the funeral of a retired enlisted
man. (A. R. 423.)

344.

345.

SECTION 18. REVEILLE AND RETREAT GUN.

346.

SECTION 19. GUARD MOUNTING.

347.

348.

SECTION 20. FORMAL GUARD MOUNTING FOR INFANTRY.

349.

350.

351.

352.

353.

354.

355.

The adjutant then commands: 1.

356. If the guard be not divided into platoons, the adjutant commands: 1.

SECTION 21. INFORMAL GUARD MOUNTING FOR INFANTRY.

357.

358.

359.

SECTION 22. RELIEVING THE OLD GUARD.

360.

361.

362.

363.

364.

365.

366.

367.

When you pick up a map, the first question is, Where is the north? This can usually be told
by an arrow (see fig. 1, section 1) which will be found in one of the corners of the map, and
which points to the true north--the north of the north star.

On some maps no arrow is to be found. The chances are a hundred to one that the north is at
the top of the map, as it is on almost all printed maps. But you can only assure yourself of
that fact by checking the map with the ground it represents. For instance, if you ascertain
that the city of Philadelphia is due east of the city of Columbus, then the Philadelphia-Columbus
line on the map is a due east-and-west line, and establishes at once all the other map directions.

Now, the map represents the ground as nearly as it can be represented on a flat piece of paper.
If you are standing up. facing the north, your right hand will be in the east, your left in
the west, and your back to the south. It is the same with a map; if you look across it in the
direction of the arrow--that is, toward its north--your right hand will be toward what is east
on the map; your left hand to the west; the south will be at the bottom of the map.

There is another kind of an arrow that sometimes appears on a map. It is like the one in figure
2, section 1, and points not to the true north but to the magnetic north, which is the north
of the compass. Though the compass needle, and therefore the arrow that represents it on the
map, does not point exactly north, the deviation is, from a military point of view, slight,
and appreciable error will rarely result through the use of the magnetic instead of the true
north in the solution of any military problems.

Should you be curious to know the exact deviation, consult your local surveyor or any civil
engineer.

Both arrows may appear on your map. In that case disregard the magnetic arrow unless you are
using the map in connection with a compass.

If a map is being used on the ground, the first thing to be done is to put the lines of the
map parallel to the real outlines of the ground forms, and roads, fences, railroads, etc.,
that the map shows; for the making of a map is no more than the drawing on paper of lines parallel
to and proportional in length to real directions and distances on the ground.

For instance, the road between two places runs due north and south. Then on the map a line
representing the road will be parallel to the arrow showing the north and will be proportional
in length to the real road. In this way a map is a picture, or, better, a bare outline sketch;
and, as we can make out a picture, though it be upside down, or crooked on the wall, so we
call use a map that is upside down or not parallel to the real ground forms. But it is easier
to make out both the picture and the map if their lines are parallel to what they represent.
So in using a map on the ground we always put the lines parallel to the actual features they
show. This is easy if the map has an arrow.

If the map has no arrow, you must locate objects or features on the ground, and on the map,
their representations. Draw on the map a line connecting any two of the features; place this
line parallel to all imaginary line through the two actual features located, and your map will
be correctly placed. Look to it that you do not reverse on the map the positions of the two
objects or features, or your map will be exactly upside down.

When the map has been turned into the proper position--that is to say, "oriented"--the next
thing is to locate on the map your position. If you are in the village of Easton and there
is a place on the map labeled Easton, the answer is apparent. But if you are out in the country,
at an unlabeled point that looks like any one of a dozen other similar points, the task is
more complicated. In this latter case you must locate and identify, both on the map and on
the ground, other points--hills, villages, peculiar bends in rivers, forests--any ground features
that have some easily recognizable peculiarity and that you can see from your position.

Suppose, for instance, you were near Leavenworth and wanted to locate your exact position,
of which you are uncertain. You have the map shown in this manual, and, looking about, you
see southwest from where you stand the United States Penitentiary; also, halfway between the
south and the southeast--south-southeast a sailor would say--the reservoir (rectangle west
of "O" in "Missouri"). Having oriented your map, draw on it a line from the map position of
the reservoir toward its actual position on the ground. Similarly draw a line from the map
position of penitentiary toward its actual position. Prolong the two lines until they intersect.
The intersection of the lines will mark the place where you stand--south Merritt Hill.

This method consists merely in drawing on the map lines that represent the lines of sight to
known and visible places. The lines pass through the map position of the places you see and
are parallel to the actual lines of sight; therefore they are the map representations of the
lines of sight, and their intersection is the map position of the eye of the observer.

After this orientation and location of position, one can deduce from the map everything there
is to know in regard to directions. In this respect, study of the ground itself will show no
more than will study of the map.

After "What direction?" comes "How far?" To answer this, one must understand that the map distance
between any two points shown bears a fixed and definite relation or proportion to the real
distance between the two points.

For instance: We measure on a map and find the distance between two points to be 1 inch. Then
we measure the real distance on the ground and find it to be 10,000 inches; hence the relation
between the map distance and the real distance is 1 to 10,000, or 1/10000. Now, if the map
is properly drawn, the same relation will hold good for all distances, and we can obtain any
ground distance by multiplying by 10,000 the corresponding map distance.

This relation need not be 1/10000, but may be anything from 1/100 that an architect might use
in making a map or plan of a house up to one over a billion and a half, which is about the
proportion between map and real distances in a pocket-atlas representation of the whole world
on a 6-inch page. Map makers call this relation the "scale" of the map and put it down in a
corner in one of three ways.

First. 1 inch equals 100.

Second. 1/100.

Third. As shown in figure 3 (section 1).

These expressions mean one and the same thing. A variation of the first method on a map of
different scale might be: 1 inch equals 1 mile. Since a mile contains 63,360 inches, then the
real distance between any two points shown on the map is 63,360 times the map distance.

To find the ground distance by the third kind of scale, copy it on the edge of a slip of paper,
apply the slip directly to the map, and read off the distance; and so we answer the question,
"How far?"

After direction and distance comes the interpretation of the signs, symbols, and abbreviations
on the map. Those authorized are given in section 2 (a reprint of Appendix 4, Field Service
Regulations, 1914); but there are a good many other conventional signs in common use. A key
to them is published by the War Department, and is called "Conventional Signs, United States
Army." From these you read at once the natural and artificial features of the country shown
on your map. It should be borne in mind that these conventional signs are not necessarily drawn
to scale, as are the distances. They show the position and outline of the features rather than
the size. This, for the reason that many of the features shown, if drawn to scale, would be
so small that one could not make them out except with a magnifying glass. If the exact dimensions
are of any importance, they will be written in figures on the map. For instances, bridges.

In addition to te above conventional signs, we have CONTOURS to show the elevations, depressions,
slope, and shape of the ground. Abroad, HACHURES are much used, but they serve only to indicate
elevation, and, as compared to contours, are of little value. Contours resemble the lines shown
in figure 4 (section 1)

Hachures are shown in figure 5 (section 1), and may be found on any European map. They simply
show slopes, and, when carefully drawn, show steeper slopes by heavier shading and gentler
slopes by the fainter hachures. The crest of the mountain is within the hachures. (See fig.
5, section 1.)

Contours.--A certain student, when asked by his instructor to define "space," said: "I have
it, sir, in my head, but can not put it into words." The Instructor replied: "I suppose that
under those circumstances, Mr. ----, the definition really would not help much." And so it
is with contours--the definition does not help much if you know a contour when you meet it
on a map. For examples of contours, turn to the map in section 2 and, starting at the United
States penitentiary, note the smooth, flowing, irregular curved lines marked 880, 860, 840,
840, 860, etc.

The only other lines on the map that at all resemble contours are stream lines, like "Corral
Creek," but the stream lines are readily distinguished from contours by the fact that they
cross the contours squarely, while the contours run approximately parallel to each other. Note
the stream line just to the west of South Merritt Hill.

The contours represent lines on the ground that are horizontal and whose meanderings follow
the surface, just as the edge of a flood would follow the irregularities of the hills about
it. Those lines that contours stand for are just as level as the water's edge of a lake, but
horizontally they wander back and forth to just as great a degree.

The line marked 880, at the penitentiary, passes through on that particular piece of ground
every point that is 880 feet above sea level. Should the Missouri River rise in flood to 880
feet, the penitentiary would be on an island, the edge of which is marked by the 880 contour.

Contours show several things; among them the height of the ground they cross. Usually the contour
has labeled on it in figures the height above some starting point, called the DATUM PLANE--generally
sea level. If, with a surveying instrument, you put in on a piece of ground a lot of stakes,
each one of which is exactly the same height above sea level--that is, run a line of levels--then
make a map showing the locution of the stakes, a line drawn on the map through all the stake
positions is a contour and shows the position of all points of that particular height.

On any given map all contours are equally spaced in a vertical direction, and the map shows
the location of a great number of points at certain fixed levels. If you know the vertical
interval between any two adjacent contours, you know the vertical interval for all the contours
on that map, for these intervals on a given map are all the same.

With reference to a point through which no contour passes, we can only say that the point in
question is not higher than the next contour up the hill, nor lower than the next one down
the hill. For the purposes of any problem, it is usual to assume that the ground slopes evenly
between the two adjacent contours and that the vertical height of the point above the lower
contour is proportional to its horizontal distance from the contour, as compared to the whole
distance between the two contours. For instance, on the map, find the height of point A. The
horizontal measurements are as shown on the map. The vertical distance between the contours
is 20 feet. A is about one-quarter of the distance between the 800 and the 820 contours, and
we assume its height to be one-quarter of 20 feet (5 feet) higher than 800 feet. So the height
of A is 805 feet.

The vertical interval is usually indicated in the corner of the map by the letters "V. I."
For instance: V. I.=20 feet.

On maps of very small pieces of ground, the V. I. is usually small--perhaps as small as 1 foot;
on maps of large areas on a small scale it may be very great--even 1,000 feet.

Contours also show SLOPES. It has already been explained that from any contour to the next
one above it the ground rises a fixed number of feet, according to the vertical interval of
that map. From the scale of distances on the map the horizontal distance between any two contours
can be found. For example: On the map the horizontal distance between D and E is 90 yards,
or 270 feet. The vertical distance is 20 feet the V. I. of the map. The slope then is 20/270
=  1/13.5 = 7-1/2% = 4-1/2°, in all of which different ways the slope can be expressed,

On a good many contoured maps a figure like this will be found in one of the corners:

On that particular map contours separated by the distance

on the vertical scale show a slope of 1°: if separated by the distance

they show a 2° slope. etc. A slope of 1° is a rise of 1 foot in 57. To use this scale of slopes
copy it on the edge of a piece of paper just as you did the scale of distances and apply it
directly to the map.

You will notice that where the contours lie closest the slope is steepest; where they are farthest
apart the ground is most nearly flat,

It has already been set forth how contours show height and slope; in addition to this they
show the shape of the ground, or GROUND FORMS. Each single contour shows the shape at its particular
level of the hill or valley it outlines; for instance, the 880 contour about the penitentiary
shows that the hill at that level has a shape somewhat like a horse's head. Similarly, every
contour on the map gives us the form of the ground at its particular level, and knowing these
ground forms for many levels we can form a fair conception of what the whole surface is like.

A round contour like the letter O outlines a round ground feature; a long narrow one indicates
a long narrow ground feature.

Different hills and depressions have different shapes. A good many of them have one shape at
one level and another shape at another level, all of which information will be given you by
the contours on the map.

One of the ways to see how contours show the shape of the ground is to pour half a bucket of
water into a small depression in the ground. The water's edge will be exactly level, and if
the depression is approximately round the water's edge will also be approximately round. The
outline will look something like figure 6.

Draw roughly on a piece of paper a figure of the same shape and you will have a contour showing
the shape of the bit of ground where you poured your water.

Next, with your heel gouge out on one edge of your little pond a small round bay. The water
will rush in and the water-mark on the soil will now be shaped something like figure 7.

Alter your drawing accordingly, and the new contour will show the new ground shape.

Again do violence to the face of nature by digging with a stick a narrow inlet opening out
of your miniature ocean, and the watermark will now look something like figure 8.

Alter your drawing once more and your contour shows again the new ground form. Drop into your
main pond a round clod and you will have a new watermark, like figure 9, to add to your drawing.
This new contour, of the same level with the one showing the limit of the depression, shows
on the drawing the round island.

Drop in a second clod, this time long and narrow, the watermark will be like figure 10, and
the drawing of it, properly placed, will show another island of another shape. Your drawing
now will look like figure 11.

It shows a depression approximately round, off which open a round bay and a long narrow bay.
There is also a round elevation and a long, narrow one; a long, narrow ridge, jutting out between
the two bays, and a short, broad one across the neck of the round bay.

Now flood your lake deeply enough to cover up the features you have introduced. The new water
line, about as shown by the dotted line in figure 11, shows the oblong shape of the depression
at a higher level; the solid lines show the shape farther down; the horizontal distance between
the two contours at different points shows where the bank is steep and where the slope is gentler.

Put together the information that each of these contours gives you, and you will see how contours
show the shape of the ground. On the little map you have drawn you have introduced all the
varieties of ground forms there are; therefore all the contour forms.

The contours on an ordinary map seem much more complicated, but this is due only to the number
of them, their length, and many turns before they finally close on themselves. Or they may
close off the paper. But trace each one out, and it will resolve itself into one of the forms
shown in figure 11.

Just as the high-tide line round the continents of North and South America runs a long and
tortuous course, but finally closes back on itself, so will every contour do likewise. And
just as truly as every bend in that high-tide mark turns out around a promontory, or in around
a bay, so will every bend in a contour stand for a hill or a valley, pointing to the lowlands
if it be a hill, and to the height if it mark a valley.

If the map embrace a whole continent or an island, all the contours will be of closed form,
as in figure 11, but if it embrace only it part of the continent or island, some of the contours
will be chopped off at the edge of the map, and we have the open form of contours, as we would
have if figure 11 were cut into two parts.

The closed form may indicate a hill or a basin; the open form, a ridge or a valley; sometimes
a casual glance does not indicate which.

Take up, first, the contour of the open type. If the map shows a stream running down the inside
of the contour, there is no difficulty in saying at once that the ground feature is a valley;
for instance, V, V, V, and the valley of Corral Creek on the map. But if there is no stream
line, does the contour bend show a valley or a ridge?

First of all, there is a radical difference between the bend of a contour round the head of
a valley and its bend round the nose of a ridge,

Compare on the map the valleys V and the ridges R. The bend of the contour round the head of
the valley is much sharper than the bend of the contour round the nose of the ridge. This is
a general truth, not only in regard to maps, but also in regard to ground forms. Study any
piece of open ground and note how much wider are the ridges than the valleys. Where you find
a "hog back" or "devil's backbone," you have an exception to the rule, but the exceptions are
not frequent enough to worry over.

To tell whether a given point is on a ridge or in a valley, start from the nearest stream shown
on the map and work across the map to the undetermined point, keeping in mind that in a real
trip across the country you start from the stream, go up the hill to the top of a ridge, down
the other side of the hill to a water-course, then up a hill to the top of a ridge, down again,
up again, etc. That is all traveling is--valley, hill, valley, hill, valley, etc., though you
wander till the crack o' doom. And so your map travels must go--valley, hill, valley, hill--till
you run off the map or come back to the starting point.

On the map, follow the R-V line, V indicating valley and R ridge or hill. Note first the difference
in sharpness in the contour bends; also how the valley contours point to the highland and the
ridge contours to the lowland.

The contours go thus:

The streams flow down the valleys, and the sharp angle of the contour points always up stream.
Note also how the junction of a stream and its tributary usually makes an angle that points
down stream.

"Which way does this stream run?"

Water flows down hill. If you are in the bed of a stream, contours representing higher ground
must be to your right and to your left. Get the elevations of these contours. Generally the
nearest contour to the bank of the stream will cross the stream and there will be an angle
or sharp turn in the contour at this crossing. If the point of the angle or sharp turn is toward
you, you are going downstream; if away from you, you are going upstream.

If the contours are numbered, you have only to look at the numbers to say where the low and
where the high places are; but to read a map with any speed one must be quite independent of
these numbers. In ordinary map reading look, first of all, for the stream lines. The streams
are the skeleton upon which the whole map is hung. Then pick out the hilltops and ridges and
you have a body to clothe with ail the details that will be revealed by a close and careful
study of what the map maker has recorded.

As to closed contours, they may outline a depression or a hill. On the map, "881" or "885"
might be hills or ponds, as far as their shape is concerned. But, clearly, they are hills,
for on either side are small streams running away from them. If they were ponds, the stream
lines would run toward the closed contours. The rest of "hill, valley, hill," will always solve
the problem when there are not enough stream lines shown to make evident at once whether a
closed contour marks a pond or a hill. Look in the beginning for the stream lines and valleys,
and, by contrast, if for no other reason, the hills and ridges at once loom up.

To illustrate the subject of contours to aid those who have difficulty in reading contoured
maps the following is suggested:

1. Secure modeling clay and build a mound.

2. Use wire and slice this mound horizontally at equal vertical intervals into zones; then
insert vertical dowels through the mound of clay.

3. Remove the top zone, place on paper, and draw outline of the bottom edge. Trim your paper
roughly to the outline drawn. Indicate where the holes made by the dowels pierce the paper.

4. Do the above with each zone of your mound.

5. Place these papers in proper order on dowels similarly placed to ones in original mound
at, say, 1 inch vertical interval apart. A skeleton mound results.

6. Replace the zones of the clay mound and form the original clay mound along the side of skeleton
mound.

7. New force all the paper sheets down the dowels onto the bottom sheet, and we have a map
of clay mound with contours.

NOTE.--One-inch or 2-inch planks can be made into any desired form by the use of dowels and
similar procedure followed.

People frequently ask, "What should I see when I read a map?" and the answer is given, "The
ground as it is." This is not true any more than it is true that the words, "The valley of
the Meuse," bring to your mind vine-clad hills, a noble river, and green fields where cattle
graze. Nor can any picture ever put into your thought what the Grand Canyon really is. What
printed word or painted picture can not do, a map will not. A map says to you, "Here stands
a hill," "Here is a valley," "This stream runs so," and gives you a good many facts in regard
to them. But you do not have to "see" anything, any more than you have to visualize Liege in
order to learn the facts of its geography. A map sets forth cold facts in an alphabet all its
own, but an easy alphabet, and one that tells with a few curving lines more than many thousand
words could tell.

SECTION 2. SKETCHING.

Noncommissioned officers and selected privates should be able to make simple route sketches.
This is particularly useful in patrolling as thereby a patrol leader is able to give his commander
a good idea of the country his patrol has traversed. Sketches should be made on a certain scale,
which should be indicated on the sketch, such as 3 inches on the sketch equals 1 mile on the
ground. The north should be indicated on the sketch by means of an arrow pointing in that direction.
Any piece of paper may be used to make the sketch on. The back of the field-message blank is
ruled and prepared for this purpose. The abbreviations and conventional signs shown on the
following pages should be used in making such simple sketches.

Field Maps and Sketches.

The following abbreviations and signs are authorized for use on field maps and sketches. For
more elaborate map work the authorized conventional signs as given in the manual of "Conventional
Signs, United States Army Maps," are used.

Abbreviations other than those given should not be used.

ABBREVIATIONS.

  A.       Arroyo.            L. S. S. Life-Saving Station.
  abut.    Abutment.          L. H.    Lighthouse
  Ar.      Arch.              Long.    Longitude.
  b.       Brick.             Mt.      Mountain.
  B. S.    Blacksmith Shop.   Mts.     Mountains.
  bot.     Bottom.            N.       North.
  Br.      Branch.            n. f.    Not fordable.
  br.      Bridge.            P.       Pier.
  C.       Cape.              pk.      Plank.
  cem.     Cemetery.          P. O.    Post Office
  con.     Concrete.          Pt.      Point.
  cov.     Covered.           q.p      Queen-post
  Cr.      Creek.             R.       River.
  d.       Deep.              R. H.    Roundhouse.
  cul.     Culvert.           R. R.    Railroad.
  D. S.    Drug Store.        S.       South.
  E.       East.              s.       Steel.
  Est.     Estuary.           S. H.    Schoolhouse.
  f.       Fordable.          S. M.    Sawmill.
  Ft.      Fort.              Sta.     Station.
  G. S     General Store.     st.      Stone.
  gir.     Girder.            str.     Stream.
  G. M.    Gristmill.         T. G.    Tollgate.
  I.       Iron.              Tres.    Trestle.
  I.       Island.            tr.      Truss.
  Jc.      Junction.          W. T.    Water Tank.
  k.p.     King-post.         W. W.    Water Works.
  L.       Lake.              W.       West.
  Lat.     Latitude.          w.       Wood.
  Ldg.     Landing.           wd.      Wide.

  To . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .No . . . .
                                 (For signal operator only.)
  Whensent  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .No . . . .
  Rateofspeed  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Nameofmessenger  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  Whenandbywhomrec'd . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                 This Envelope will be Returned to Bearer.

CHAPTER XII.

SIGNALS AND CODES.

(Extracts from Signal Book, United States Army, 1916.)

General Instructions for Army Signaling.

1. Each signal station will have its call, consisting of one or two letters, as Washington,
"W"; and each operator or signalist will also have his personal signal of one or two letters,
as Jones, "Jo." These being once adopted will not be changed without due authority.

2. To lessen liability of error, numerals which occur in the body of a message should be spelled
out.

3. In receiving a message the man at the telescope should call out each letter as received,
and not wait for the completion of a word.

4. A record of the date and time of the receipt or transmission of every message must be kept.

5. The duplicate manuscript of messages received at, or the original sent from, a station should
be carefully filed.

6. In receiving messages nothing should be taken for granted, and nothing considered as seen
until it has been positively and clearly in view. Do not anticipate what will follow from signals
already given. Watch the communicating station until the last signals are made, and be very
certain that the signal for the end of the message has been given.

7. Every address must contain at least two words and should be sufficient to secure delivery.

8. All that the sender writes for transmission after the word "To" is counted.

9. Whenever more than one signature is attached to a message count all initials and names as
a part of the message.

10. Dictionary words, initial letters, surnames of persons, names of cities, towns, villages,
States, and Territories, or names of the Canadian Provinces will be counted each as one word:
e.g., New York, District of Columbia, East St. Louis should each be counted as one word. The
abbreviation of the names of cities, towns, villages, States, Territories, and provinces will
be counted the same as if written in full.

11. Abbreviations of weights and measures in common use, figures, decimal points, bars of division,
and in ordinal numbers the affixes "st," "d," "nd," "rd," and "th" will be each counted as
one word. Letters and groups of letters, when such groups do not form dictionary words and
are not combinations of dictionary words, will be counted at the rate of five letters or fraction
of five letters to a word. When such groups are made up of combinations of dictionary words,
each dictionary word so used will be counted.

12. The following are exceptions to paragraph 55, and are counted as shown:

  A. M.     1 word
  P. M.     1 word
  O. K.     1 word
  Per cent  1 word

13. No message will be considered sent until its receipt has been acknowledged by the receiving
station.

The International Morse or General Service Code.

18. The International Morse Code is the General Service Code and is prescribed for use by the
Army of the United States and between the Army and the Navy of the United States. It will be
used on radio systems, submarine cables using siphon recorders, and with the heliograph, flash-lantern,
and all visual signaling apparatus using the wigwag.

         Alphabet.

  A  . -         N  - .
  B  - . . .     O  - - -
  C  - . - .     P  . - - .
  D  - . .       Q  - - . -
  E  .           R  . - .
  F  . . - .     S  . . .
  G  - - .       T  -
  H  . . . .     U  . . -
  I  . .         V  . . . -
  J  . - - -     W  . - -
  K  - . -       X  - . . -
  L  . - . .     Y  - . - -
  M  - -         Z  - - . .

         Numerals.

  1  . - - - -   6  - . . . .
  2  . . - - -   7  - - . . .
  3  . . . - -   8  - - - . .
  4  . . . . -   9  - - - - .
  5  . . . . .   0  - - - - -

        Punctuation.

  Period                                        . .   . .  . .
  Comma                                          . - . - . -
  Interrogation                                  . . - - . .
  Hyphen or dash                                 - . . . . -
  Parentheses (before and after the words)       - . - - . -
  Quotation mark (beginning and ending)          . - . . - .
  Exclamation                                    - - . . - -
  Apostrophe                                     . - - - - .
  Semicolon                                      - . - . - .
  Colon                                          - - - . . .
  Bar indicating fraction                        - . . - .
  Underline (before and after the word or
    words it is wished to underline)             . . - - . -
  Double dash (between preamble and address,
    between address and body of message,
    between body of message and signature,
    and immediately before a fraction)           - . . . -
  Cross                                          . - . - .

Visual Signaling in General.

21. Methods of visual signaling are divided as follows:

(a) By flag, torch, hand lantern, or beam of searchlight (without shutter). (General Service Code).

(b) By heliograph, flash lantern, or searchlight (with shutter). (General Service Code).

(c) By Ardois. (General Service Code).

(d) By hand flags or by stationary semaphore. (Two-arm semaphore Code.)

(e) By preconcerted signals with Coston lights, rockets, bombs, Very pistols, small arms, guns,
etc.

(f) By flag signals by permanent hoists. (International Code.)

22. The following conventional signals, with exceptions noted, will be used in the first four
classes.

                                                 Exceptions
                                             Ardois and semaphore.
  End of word.          Interval.
  End of sentence.      Double interval.
  End of message.       Triple interval.
  Signal separating
    preamble from
    address; address
    from text; text
    from signature.     - . . . -            Double interval,
                                               signature preceded
                                               also by "Sig."
                                               Interval.
  Acknowledgement.      R.
  Error.                . . . . . . . .      A.
  Negative.             K.
  Preparatory.          L.
  Annulling.            N.
  Affirmative.          P.
  Interrogatory.        . . - - . .          O.
  Repeat after word.    Interrogatory. A
                          (word).
  Repeat last message.  Interrogatory
                          three times
  Send faster.          QRQ
  Send slower.          QRS
  Cease sending         QRT
  Wait a moment         . - . . .            None.
  Execute.              IX, IX
  Move to your right.   MR
  Move to your left.    ML
  Move up.              MU
  Move down.            MD
  Finished              . . . - . -          None.

23. For the flag used with the General Service Code there are three motions and one position.
Front is used to indicate an interval.

24.

25.

26.

27. To call a station, make its call letter until acknowledged.

28.

29.

30.

56.

Signaling by Two-Arm Semaphore.

HAND FLAGS.

43. Signaling by the two-arm semaphore is the most rapid method of sending spelled-out messages.
It is, however, very liable to error if the motions are slurred over or run together in an
attempt to make speed. Both arms should move rapidly and simultaneously, but there should be
a perceptible pause at the end of each letter before making the movements for the next letter.
Rapidity is secondary to accuracy. For alphabet see pages following.

NOTE.--In making the interval the flags are crossed downward in front of the body (just above
the knees); the double interval is the "chop-chop" signal made twice; the triple interval is
"chop-chop" signal made three times. In calling a station face it squarely and make its call.
If there is no immediate reply wave the flags over the head to attract attention, making the
call at frequent intervals. When the sender makes "end of message" the receiver, if message
is understood, extends the flags horizontally and waves them until the sender does the same,
when both leave their stations. Care must be taken with hand flags to hold the staffs so as
to form a prolongation of the arms.

LETTER CODES.

INFANTRY.

47. For use with General Service Code or semaphore hand flags.

  -------------------------------------------------------------
   Letter of  |    If signaled from    |  If signaled from
   alphabet   |     the rear to the    |   the firing line
              |       firing line.     |    to the rear.
  ------------|------------------------|-----------------------
  AM          | Ammunition going       | Ammunition required.
              |   forward.             |
  CCC         | Charge (mandatory      | Am about to charge
              | at all times).         | if no instructions
              |                        | to the contrary.
  CF          | Cease firing.          | Cease firing.       |
  FB          | Fix bayonet.           |
  FL          | Artillery fire is      |
              | causing us losses.     |
  G           | Move forward.          | Preparing to move
              |                        | forward.
  HHH         | Halt.                  |
  K           | Negative.              | Negative.
  LT          | Left.                  | Left.
  O           | What is the (R. N.,    | What is the (R. N.,
  (Ardois and | etc.)? Interrogatory.  | etc.)? Interrogatory.
  Semaphore   |                        |
  only.)      |                        |
  . . - - . . | What is the (R. N.,    | What is the (R. N.,
  (All methods| etc.)? Interrogatory.  | etc.)? Interrogatory.
  but ardois  |                        |
  and         |                        |
  semaphore.) |                        |
  P           | Affirmative.           | Affirmative.
  RN          | Range.                 | Range.
  RT          | Right.                 | Right.
  SSS         | Support going forward. | Support needed.
  SUF         | Suspend firing.        | Suspend firing.
  T           | Target.                | Target.
  -------------------------------------------------------------

CAVALRY.

48. For use with General Service Code or semaphore hand flags.

             AM--Ammunition going forward (if signaled from the
                 rear to the front).
                 Ammunition required (If signaled from the front).
            CCC--Charge (if signaled rear the rear to the front).
                 About to charge if no instructions to the
                 contrary (if signaled from the front).
             CF--Cease firing.
             DT--Double time, rush, or hurry.
              F--Commence firing.
             FL--Artillery fire is causing us losses.
              G--Move forward (if signaled from the rear to
                 the front). Preparing to move forward (if
                 signaled from the front).
            HHH--Halt.
              K--Negative.
             LT--Left.
              M--Bring up the horses (if signaled from front
                 to rear). Horses going forward (if signaled
                 from rear to front).
              O--What is the (R. N., etc.)? Interrogatory.
                 (Ardois and semaphore only.)
    . . - - . .--What is the (R. N., etc.)? Interrogatory.
                 (All methods but ardois and semaphore.)
              P--Affirmative.
              R--Acknowledgment.
             RN--Range.
             RT--Right.
            SSS--Support going forward (if signaled from the
                 rear to the front). Support needed (if
                 signaled from the front).
            SUF--Suspend firing.
              T--Target.

FIELD ARTILLERY.

49. For use with General Service Code or semaphore hand flags.

. . . . . . . .--Error. (All methods but ardois and semaphore.)
              A--Error. (Ardois and semaphore only.)
             AD--Additional.
            AKT--Draw ammunition from combat tram.
             AL--Draw ammunition from limbers.
             AM--Ammunition going forward.
            AMC--At my command.
             AP--Aiming point.
   B (numerals)--Battery (so many) rounds.
  BS (numerals)--(Such.) Battalion station.
             BL--Battery from the left.
             BR--Battery from the right.
            CCC--Charge (mandatory at all times). Am about to
                 charge if not instructed to contrary.
             CF--Cease firing.
             CS--Close station.
             CT--Change target.
              D--Down.
             DF--Deflection.
             DT--Double time. Rush. Hurry.
              F--Commence firing.
 FCL (numerals)--On 1st piece close by (so much).
             FL--Artillery fire is causing us losses.
 FOP (numerals)--On 1st piece open by (so much).
              G--Move forward. Preparing to move forward.
            HHH--Halt. Action suspended.
             IX--Execute. Go ahead. Transmit.
             JI--Report firing data.
              K--Negative. No.
             KR--Corrector.
              L--Preparatory. Attention.
 LCL (numerals)--On 4th piece close by (so much).
 LOP (numerals)--On 4th piece open by (so much).
             LT--Left.
             LL--Left from the left.
             LR--Left from the right.
  LE (numerals)--Left (so much).
             MD--Move down.
             ML--Move to your left.
             MR--Move to your right.
             MU--Move up.
  MO (numerals)--Move (so much).
              N--Annul, cancel.
              O--What is the (R. N., etc.)? Yes.
             PS--Percussion. Shrapnel.
            QRQ--Send faster.
            QRS--Send slower.
            QRT--Cease sending.
              R--Acknowledgment. Received.
             RS--Regimental station.
             RL--Right from the left.
             RR--Right from the right.
             RN--Range.
             RT--Right.
              S--Subtract.
 SCL (numerals)--On 2d piece close by (so much).
 SOP (numerals)--On 2d piece open by (so much).
             SH--Shell.
             SI--Site.
            SSS--Support needed.
              T--Target.
 TCL (numerals)--On 3d piece close by (so much).
 TOP (numerals)--On 3d piece open by (so much).
              U--Up.
     Y (letter)--Such battery station.

CHAPTER XIII.

FIRST AID RULES.

The bandages and dressings contained in the first-aid packet have been so treated as to destroy
any germs thereon. Therefore, when dressing a wound, be careful not to touch or handle that
part of the dressing which is to be applied to the wound.

A sick or injured person should always be made to lie down on his back, if practicable, as
this is the most comfortable position, and all muscles may be relaxed.

All tight articles of clothing and equipment should be loosened, so as not to interfere with
breathing or the circulation of the blood. Belts, collars, and the trousers at the waist should
be opened.

Don't let mere onlookers crowd about the patient. They prevent him from getting fresh air and
also make him nervous and excited.

In case of injury the heart action is generally weak from shock, and the body, therefore, grows
somewhat cold. So don't remove any more clothing than is necessary to expose the injury.

Cut or rip the clothing, but don't pull it. Try to disturb the patient as little as possible.

Don't touch a wound with your fingers or a handkerchief, or with anything else but the first-aid
dressing. Don't wash the wound with water, as you may infect it.

Don't administer stimulants (whisky, brandy, wine, etc.) unless ordered to do so by a doctor.
While in a few cases stimulants are of benefit, in a great many cases they do positive harm,
especially where there has been any bleeding.

The heart may be considered as a pump and the arteries as a rubber hose, which carry the blood
from the heart to every part of the body. The veins are the hose which carry the blood back
to the heart. Every wound bleeds some, but, unless a large artery or a large vein is cut, the
bleeding will stop after a short while if the patient is kept quiet and the first-aid dressing
is bound over the wound so as to make pressure on it.

When a large artery is cut the blood gushes out in spurts every time the heart beats. In this
case it is necessary to stop the flow of blood by pressing upon the hose somewhere between
the heart and the leak.

If the leak is in the arm or hand, apply pressure as in figure 1.

If the leak is in the leg, apply pressure as in figure 2.

If the leak is in the shoulder or armpit, apply pressure as in figure 3.

The reason for this is that at the places indicated the arteries may be pressed against a bone
more easily than at any other places.

Another way of applying pressure (by means of a tourniquet) is shown in figure 4. Place a pad
of tightly rolled cloth or paper, or any suitable object, over the artery. Tie a bandage loosely
about the limb and then insert your bayonet, or a stick, and twist up the bandage until the
pressure of the pad on the artery stops the leak. Twist the bandage slowly and stop as soon
as the blood ceases to flow, in order not to bruise the flesh or muscles unnecessarily.

A tourniquet may cause pain and swelling of the limb, and it left on too long may cause the
limb to die. Therefore, about every half hour or so, loosen the bandage very carefully, but
if the bleeding continues pressure must be applied again. In this case apply the pressure with
the thumb for five or ten minutes, as this cuts off only the main artery and leaves some of
the smaller arteries and the veins free to restore some of the circulation. When a tourniquet
is painful, it is too tight and should be carefully loosened a little.

It the leg or arm is held upright, this also helps to reduce the bleeding in these parts, because
the heart then has to pump the blood uphill.

A broken bone is called a fracture. The great danger in the case of a fracture is that the
sharp, jagged edges of the bones may stick through the flesh and skin, or tear and bruise the
arteries, veins, and muscles. If the skin is not broken, a fracture is not so serious, as no
germs can get in. Therefore never move a person with a broken bone until the fracture has been
so fixed that the broken ends of the bone can not move.

If the leg or arm is broken, straighten the limb gently and if necessary pull upon the end
firmly to get the bones in place. Then bind the limb firmly to a splint to hold it in place.
A splint may be made of any straight, stiff material--a shingle or piece of board, a bayonet,
a rifle, a straight branch of a tree, etc. Whatever material you use must be well padded on
the side next to the limb. Be careful never to place the bandages over the fracture, but always
above and below. (Figs. 5, 6, 7, 8.)

Many surgeons think that the method of binding a broken leg to the well one, and of binding
the arm to the body, is the best plan in the field as being the quickest and one that serves
the immediate purpose.

With wounds about the body the chest and abdomen you must not meddle except to protect them
when possible without much handling with the materials of the packet.

FAINTING, SHOCK, HEAT EXHAUSTION.

The symptoms of fainting, shock, and heat exhaustion are very similar. The face is pale, the
skin cool and moist, the pulse is weak, and generally the patient is unconscious. Keep the
patient quiet, resting on his back, with his head low. Loosen the clothing, but keep the patient
warm, and give stimulants (whisky, hot coffee, tea, etc.).

SUNSTROKE.

In the case of sunstroke the face is flushed, the skin is dry and very hot, and the pulse is
full and strong. In this case place the patient in a cool spot, remove the clothing, and make
every effort to lessen the heat in the body by cold applications to the head and surface generally.
Do not, under any circumstances, give any stimulants or hot drinks.

FREEZING AND FROSTBITE.

The part frozen, which looks white or bluish white, and is cold, should be very slowly raised
in temperature by brisk but careful rubbing in a cool place and never near a fire. Stimulants
are to be given cautiously when the patient can swallow, and followed by small amounts of warm
liquid nourishment. The object is to restore the circulation of the blood and the natural warmth
gradually and not violently. Care and patience are necessary to do this.

RESUSITATION OF THE APPARENTLY DROWNED.

In the instruction of the Army in First Aid the method of resuscitation of the apparently drowned,
as described by "Schaefer," will be taught instead of the "Sylvester Method," heretofore used.
The Schaefer method of artificial respiration is also applicable in cases of electric shock,
asphyxiation by gas, and of the failure of respiration following concussion of the brain.

Being under water for four of five minutes is generally fatal, but an effort to revive the
apparently drowned should always be made, unless it is known that the body has been under water
for a very long time. The attempt to revive the patient should not be delayed for the purpose
of removing his clothes or placing him in the ambulance. Begin the procedure as soon as he
is out of the water, on the shore or in the boat. The first and most important thing is to
start artificial respiration without delay.

The Schaefer method is preferred because it can be carried out by one person without assistance,
and because its procedure is not exhausting to the operator, thus permitting him, if required,
to continue it for one or two hours. When it is known that a person has been under water for
but a few minutes continue the artificial respiration for at least one and a half to two hours
before considering the case hopeless. Once the patient has begun to breathe watch carefully
to see that he does not stop again. Should the breathing be very faint, or should he stop breathing,
assist him again with artificial respiration. After he starts breathing do not lift him nor
permit him to stand until the breathing has become full and regular.

As soon as the patient is removed from the water, turn him face to the ground, clasp your hands
under his waist, and raise the body so any water may drain out of the air passages while the
head remains low. This position also facilitates the removal from the mouth of foreign bodies,
such as tobacco, chewing gum, false teeth, etc., and favors the expulsion of mucus, blood,
vomitus, serum, or any liquid that may be in the air passages.

The operator kneels, straddles one or both of the patient's thighs, and faces his head. Locating
the lowest rib, the operator, with his thumbs nearly parallel to his fingers, places his hands
so that the little finger curls over the twelfth rib. If the hands are on the pelvic bones
the object of the work is defeated; hence the bones of the pelvis are first located in order
to avoid them. The hands must be free from the pelvis and resting on the lowest rib. By operating
on the bare back it is easier to locate the lower ribs and avoid the pelvis. The nearer the
ends of the ribs the hands are placed without sliding off the better. The hands are thus removed
from the spine, the fingers being nearly out of sight.

The fingers help some, but the chief pressure is exerted by the heels (thenar and hypothenar
eminences) of the hands, with the weight coming straight from the shoulders. It is a waste
of energy to bend the arms at the elbows and shove in from the sides, because the muscles of
the back are stronger than the muscles of the arms.

The operator's arms are held straight, and his weight is brought from his shoulders by bringing
his body and shoulders forward. This weight is gradually increased until at the end of the
three seconds of vertical pressure upon the lower ribs of the patient the force is felt to
be heavy enough to compress the parts; then the weight is suddenly removed. If there is danger
of not returning the hands to the right position again, they can remain lightly in place; but
it is usually better to remove the hands entirely. In this manner he can work as effectively
as a heavy man.

A light feather or a piece of absorbent cotton drawn out thin and held near the nose by some
one will indicate by its movements whether or not there is a current of air going and coming
with each forced expiration and spontaneous inspiration.

The natural rate of breathing is 12 to 15 times per minute. The rate of operation should not
exceed this. The lungs must be thoroughly emptied by three seconds of pressure, then refilling
takes care of itself. Pressure and release of pressure--one complete respiration--occupies
about five seconds. If the operator is alone, he can be guided in each act by his own deep,
regular respiration or by counting or by his watch lying by his side. If comrades are present,
he can be advised by them.

The duration of the efforts as artificial respiration should ordinarily exceed an hour; indefinitely
longer if there are any evidences of returning animation, by way of breathing, speaking, or
movements. There are liable to be evidences of life within 25 minutes in patients who will
recover from electric shock, but where there is doubt the patient should be given the benefit
of the doubt. In drowning, especially, recoveries are on record after two hours or more of
unconsciousness; hence, the Schaefer method, being easy of operation, is more likely to be
persisted in.

When the operator is a heavy man it is necessary to caution him not to bring force too violently
upon the ribs, as one of them might be broken.

Do not attempt to give liquids of any kind to the patient while unconscious. Apply warm blankets
and hot-water bottles as soon as they can be obtained.

The Army of the United States is governed by certain laws called "The Articles of War" and
certain regulations called "Army Regulations."

The following list includes the offenses most often committed by soldiers, generally through
ignorance or carelessness rather than viciousness. Violations of any rule or regulation should
be carefully guarded against, since they not only subject the offender to punishment, but also
bring discredit on his comrades, his organization, and on the military profession:

1. Selling, pawning, or, through neglect, losing or spoiling any Government property, such
as uniforms, blankets, equipment, ammunition, etc.

2. Disobedience of the orders of any officer or noncommissioned officer.

3. Disrespect to an officer or noncommissioned officer.

4. Absence from camp without leave.

5. Absence from any drill, formation, or other duty without authority.

6. Drunkenness on duty or off duty, whether in camp or when absent either with or without leave.

7. Bringing liquor into camp.

8. Noisy or disorderly conduct in camp or when absent either with or without leave.

9. Entering on private property, generally for the purpose of stealing fruit, etc.

10. Negligence or carelessness at drill or on other duty, particularly while on guard or as
a sentinel over prisoners.

11. Wearing an unauthorized uniform or wearing the uniform in an improper manner.

12. Urinating in or around camp.

13. Falling to salute properly.

14. Disrespect or affront to a sentinel.

15. Abuse or neglect of his horse. In the interpretation of the regulations the spirit must
be sought. Quibbling over the minutæ of form is indicative of failure to grasp the spirit,"
(Paragraph4, InfantryDrillRegulations.)

Field Service Regulations govern all arms of the Army of the United States."

SECTION 2. THE ARMY OF THE UNITED STATES.

The Army of the United States shall consist of the Regular Army, the Volunteer Army, the Officers'
Reserve Corps, the Enlisted Reserve Corps, the National Guard while in the service of the United
States, and such other land forces as are now or may hereafter be authorized by law. (Sec.
1, act of June 3, 1916.)

SECTION 3. RANK AND PRECEDENCE OF OFFICERS AND NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS.

The following are the grades of rank of officers and noncommissioned officers:

  1. Lieutenant general.
  2. Major general.
  3. Brigadier general.
  4. Colonel.
  5. Lieutenant colonel.
  6. Major.
  7. Captain.
  8. First lieutenant.
  9. Second lieutenant.
  10. Aviator, Signal Corps.
  11. Cadet.
  12. (a) Sergeant major, regimental; sergeant major, senior
  grade, Coast Artillery Corps; (b) quartermaster sergeant,
  senior grade, Quartermaster Corps; master hospital sergeant,
  Medical Department; master engineer, senior grade, Corps of
  Engineers; master electrician, Coast Artillery Corps; master
  signal electrician; band lender; (c) hospital sergeant, Medical
  Department; master engineer, junior grade, Corps of Engineers;
  engineer, Coast Artillery Corps.
  13. Ordnance sergeant; quartermaster sergeant, Quartermaster
  Corps; supply sergeant, regimental.
  14. Sergeant-major, squadron and battalion; sergeant major,
  junior grade, Coast Artillery Corps; supply sergeant, battalion,
  Corps of Engineers.
  15.
  16. Color sergeant.
  17. Sergeant; supply sergeant, company; mess sergeant; stable
  sergeant; fireman, Coast Artillery Corps.
  18. Corporal.

In each grade and subgrade date of commission, appointment, or warrant determines the order
of precedence. (Paragraph. 9 Army Regulations, 1913.)

SECTION 4. INSIGNIA OF OFFICERS AND NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICERS.

The insignia of rank appearing on the shoulder straps, shoulder loops, or collar of shirt (when
shirt is worn without coat) of officers are as follows:

  General: Coat of arms and two stars.
  Lieutenant general: One large star and two smaller ones.
  Major general: Two silver stars.
  Brigadier general: One silver star.
  Colonel: One silver spread eagle.
  Lieutenant colonel: One silver leaf.
  Major: One gold leaf.
  Captain: Two silver bars.
  First lieutenant: One silver bar.

The grade of noncommissioned officers is indicated by chevrons worn on the sleeve.

SECTION 5. EXTRACTS FROM THE ARTICLES OF WAR.

(Relating to enlisted men.)

CERTAIN ARTICLES TO BE READ AND EXPLAINED.

ART. 110. Articles 1, 2, and 29, 54 to 96, inclusive, and 104 to 109, inclusive, shall be read
and explained to every soldier at the time of his enlistment or muster in, or within six days
thereafter, and shall be read and explained once every six months to the soldiers of every
garrison, regiment, or company in the service of the United States.

DEFINITIONS.

ARTICLE 1. The following words when used in these articles shall be construed in the sense
indicated in this article, unless the context shows that a different sense is intended, namely:

(a) The word "officer" shall be construed to refer to a commissioned officer;

(b) The word "soldier" shall be construed as including a noncommissioned officer, a private,
or any other enlisted man;

(c) The word "company" shall be understood as including a troop or battery; and

(d) The word "battalion" shall be understood as including a squadron.

PERSONS SUBJECT TO MILITARY LAW.

ART. 2. The following persons are subject to these articles and shall be understood as included
in the term "any person subject to military law" or "persons subject to military law" whenever
used in these articles: Provided, That nothing contained in this act, except as specifically
provided in article 2, subparagraph (c), shall be construed to apply to any person under the
United States naval jurisdiction, unless otherwise specifically provided by law:

(a) All officers and soldiers belonging to the Regular Army of the United States; all volunteers,
from the dates of their muster or acceptance into the military service of the United States;
and all other persons lawfully called, drafted, or ordered into or to duty or for training
in the said service, from the dates they are required by the terms of the call, draft, or order
to obey the same.

(b) Cadets.

(c) Officers and soldiers of the Marine Corps when detached for service with the armies of
the United States by order of the President: Provided, That an officer soldier of the Marine
Corps when so detached may be tried by military court-martial for an offense committed against
the laws for the government of the naval service prior to his detachment, and for an offense
committed against these articles he may be tried by a naval court-martial after such detachment
ceases.

(d) All retainers to the camp and all persons accompanying or serving with the armies of the
United States without the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, and in time of war
all such retainers and persons accompanying or serving with the armies of the United States
in the field, both within and without the territorial jurisdiction of the United States, though
not otherwise subject to these articles.

(e) All persons under sentence adjudged by courts-martini.

(f) All persons admitted into the Regular Army Soldiers' Home at Washington. D. C.

ENLISTMENT WITHOUT DISCHARGE.

ART. 29. Any soldier who, without having first received a regular discharge, again enlists
in the Army, or in the militia when in the service of the United States, or in the Navy or
Marine Corps of the United States, or in any foreign army, shall be deemed to have deserted
the service of the United States; and, where enlistment is in one of the forces of the United
States mentioned above, to have fraudulently enlisted therein.

FRAUDULENT ENLISTMENT.

ART. 54. Any person who shall procure himself to be enlisted in the military service of the
United States by means of willful misrepresentation or concealment as to his qualifications
for enlistment, and shall receive pay or allowances under such enlistment, shall be punished
as a court-martial may direct.

OFFICER MAKING UNLAWFUL ENLISTMENT

ART. 55. Any officer who knowingly enlists or musters into the military service any person
whose enlistment or muster in is prohibited by law, regulation, or orders shall be dismissed
from the service or suffer such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

MUSTER ROLLS--FALSE MUSTER.

ART. 56. At every muster of a regiment, troop, battery, or company the commanding officer thereof
shall give to the mustering officer certificates, signed by himself, stating how long absent
officers have been absent and the reasons of their absence. And the commanding officer of every
troop, battery, or company shall give like certificates, stating how long absent noncommissioned
officers and private soldiers have been absent and the reasons of their absence. Such reasons
and time of absence shall be inserted in the muster rolls opposite the names of the respective
absent officers and soldiers, and the certificates, together with the muster rolls, shall be
transmitted by the mustering officer to the Department of War as speedily as the distance of
the place and muster will admit. Any officer who knowingly makes a false muster of man or animal,
or who signs or directs or allows the signing of any muster roll knowing the same to contain
false muster or false statement as to the absence or pay of an officer or soldier, or who wrongfully
takes money or other consideration on mustering in a regiment, company, or other organization,
or on signing muster rolls, or who knowingly musters as an officer or soldier a person who
is not such officer or soldier, shall be dismissed from the service and suffer such other punishment
as a court-martial may direct.

FALSE RETURNS--OMISSION TO RENDER RETURNS.

ART. 57. Every officer commanding a regiment, an independent troop, battery, or company, or
a garrison shall, in the beginning of every month, transmit, through the proper channels, to
the War Department an exact return of the same, specifying the names of the officers then absent
from their posts, with the reasons for and the time of their absence. Every officer whose duty
it is to render to the War Department or other superior authority a return of the state of
the troops under his command, or of the arms, ammunition, clothing, funds, or other property
thereunto belonging, who knowingly makes a false return thereof shall be dismissed from the
service and suffer such other punishment as a court-martial may direct. And any officer who,
through neglect or design, omits to render such return shall be punished as a court-martial
may direct.

DESERTION.

ART. 58.

ADVISING OR AIDING ANOTHER TO DESERT.

ART. 59.

ENTERTAINING A DESERTER.

ART. 60. Any officer who, after having discovered that a soldier in his command is a deserter
from the military or naval service or from the Marine Corps, retains such deserter in his command
without informing superior authority or the commander of the organization to which the deserter
belongs, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

ABSENCE WITHOUT LEAVE.

ART. 61. Any person subject to military law who fails to repair at the fixed time to the properly
appointed place of duty, or goes from the same without proper leave, or absents himself from
his command, guard, quarters, station or camp without proper leave, shall be punished as a
court-martial may direct.

DISRESPECT TOWARD THE PRESIDENT, VICE PRESIDENT, CONGRESS, SECRETARY OF WAR, GOVERNORS, LEGISLATURES.

ART. 62. Any officer who uses contemptuous or disrespectful words against the President, Vice
President, the Congress of the United States, the Secretary of War, or the governor or legislature
of any State, Territory, or other possession of the United States in which he is quartered
shall be dismissed from the service or suffer such other punishment as a court-martial may
direct. Any other person subject to military law who so offends shall be punished as a court-martial
may direct.

DISRESPECT TOWARD SUPERIOR OFFICERS.

ART. 63. Any person subject to military law who behaves himself with disrespect toward his
superior officer shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

ASSAULTING OR WILLFULLY DISOBEYING SUPERIOR OFFICER.

ART. 64. Any person subject to military law who, on any pretense whatsoever, strikes his superior
officer or draws or lifts up any weapon or offers any violence against him, being in the execution
of his office, or willfully disobeys any lawful command of his superior officer, shall suffer
death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

INSUBORDINATE CONDUCT TOWARD NONCOMMISSIONED OFFICER.

ART. 65. Any soldier who strikes or assaults, or who attempts or threatens to strike or assault,
or willfully disobeys the lawful order of a noncommissioned officer while in the execution
of his office, or uses threatening or insulting language, or behaves in an insubordinate or
disrespectful manner toward a noncommissioned officer while in the execution of his office,
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

MUTINY OR SEDITION.

ART. 66. Any person subject to military law who attempts to create or who begins, excites,
causes, or joins in any mutiny or sedition in any company, party, post, camp detachment, guard,
or other command shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

FAILURE TO SUPPRESS MUTINY OR SEDITION.

ART. 67. Any officer or soldier who, being present at any mutiny or sedition, does not use
his utmost endeavor to suppress the same, or knowing or having reason to believe that a mutiny
or sedition is to take place, does not without delay give information thereof to his commanding
officer shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

QUARRELS, FRAYS, DISORDERS.

ART. 68. All officers and noncommissioned officers have power to part and quell all quarrels,
frays, and disorders among persons subject to military law and to order officers who take part
in the same into arrest, and other persons subject to military law who take part in the same
into arrest or confinement, as circumstances may require, until their proper superior officer
is acquainted therewith. And whosoever, being so ordered, refuses to obey such officer or noncommissioned
officer or draws a weapon upon or otherwise threatens or does violence to him shall be punished
as a court-martial may direct.

ARREST OR CONFINEMENT OF ACCUSED PERSONS.

ART. 69. An officer charged with crime or with a serious offense under these articles shall
be placed in arrest by the commanding officer, and in exceptional cases an officer so charged
may be placed in confinement by the same authority. A soldier charged with crime or with a
serious offense under these articles shall be placed in confinement, and when charged with
a minor offense he may be placed in arrest. Any other person subject to military law charged
with crime or with a serious offense under these articles shall be placed in confinement or
in arrest, as circumstances may require; and when charged with a minor offense such person
may be placed in arrest. Any person placed in arrest under the provisions of this article shall
thereby be restricted to his barracks, quarters, or tent, unless such limits shall be enlarged
by proper authority.

INVESTIGATION OF AND ACTION UPON CHARGES.

ART. 70. No person put in arrest shall be continued in confinement more than eight days, or
until such time as a court-martial can be assembled. When any person is put in arrest for the
purpose of trial, except at remote military posts or stations, the officer by whose order he
is arrested shall see that a copy of the charges on which he is to be tried is served upon
him within eight days after his arrest, and that he is brought to trial within 10 days thereafter,
unless the necessities of the service prevent such trial; and then he shall be brought to trial
within 30 days after the expiration of said 10 days. If a copy of the charges be not served,
or the arrested person be not brought to trial, as herein required, the arrest shall cease.
But persons released from arrest, under the provisions of this article, may be tried, whenever
the exigencies of the service shall permit, within 12 months after such release from arrest:
Provided, That in time of peace no person shall, against his objection, be brought to trial
before a general court-martial within a period of five days subsequent to the service of charles
upon him.

REFUSAL TO RECEIVE AND KEEP PRISONERS.

ART. 71. No provost marshal or commander of a guard shall refute to receive or keep any prisoner
committed to his charge by an officer belonging to the forces of the United States, provided
the officer committing shall, at the time, deliver an account in writing, signed by himself,
of the crime or offense charged against the prisoner. Any officer or soldier so refusing shall
be punished as a court-martial may direct.

REPORT OF PRISONERS RECEIVED.

ART. 72. Every commander of a guard to whose charge a prisoner is committed shall, within 24
hours after such confinement, or as soon as he is relieved from his guard, report in writing
to the commanding officer the name of such prisoner, the offense charged against him, and the
name of the officer committing him; and if he fails to make such report he shall be punished
as a court-martial may direct.

RELEASING PRISONER WITHOUT PROPER AUTHORITY.

ART. 73. Any person subject to military law who, without proper authority, releases any prisoner
duly committed to his charge, or who, through neglect or design, suffers any prisoner so committed
to escape, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

DELIVERY OF OFFENDERS TO CIVIL AUTHORITIES.

ART. 74. When any person subject to military law, except one who is held by the military authorities
to answer, or who is awaiting trial or result of trial, or who is undergoing sentence for a
crime or offense punishable under these articles, is accused of a crime or offense committed
within the geographical limits of the States of the Union and the District of Columbia, and
punishable by the laws of the land, the commanding officer is required, except in time of war,
upon application duly made, to use his utmost endeavor to deliver over such accused person
to the civil authorities, or to aid the officers, of justice in apprehending and securing him,
in order that he may be brought to trial.

When under the provisions of this article delivery is made to the civll authorities of an offender
undergoing sentence of a court-martial, such delivery, if followed by conviction, shall be
held to interrupt the execution of the sentence of the court-martial, and the offender shall
be returned to military custody, after having answered to the civil authorities for his offense,
for the completion of the said court-martial sentence.

MISBEHAVIOR BEFORE THE ENEMY.

ART. 75. Any officer or soldier who misbehaves himself before the enemy, runs away, or shamefully
abandons or delivers up any fort, post, camp, guard, or other command which it is his duty
to defend, or speaks words inducing others to do the like, or casts away his arms or ammunition,
or quits his post or colors to plunder or pillage, or by any means whatsoever occasions false
alarms in camp, garrison, or quarters, shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial
may direct.

SUBORDINATES COMPELLING COMMANDER TO SURRENDER.

ART. 76. If any commander of any garrison, fort, post, camp, guard, or other command is compelled
by the officers or soldiers under his command to give it up to the enemy or to abandon it,
the officers or soldiers so offending shall suffer death or such other punishment as a court-martial
may direct.

IMPROPER USE OF COUNTERSIGN.

ART. 77.

FORCING A SAFEGUARD.

ART. 78. Any person subject to military law who, in time of war, forces a safeguard shall suffer
death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.

CAPTURED PROPERTY TO BE SECURED FOR PUBLIC SERVICE.

ART. 79. All public property taken from the enemy is the property of the United States and
shall be secured for the service of the United States, and any person subject to military law
who neglects to secure such property or is guilty of wrongful application thereof shall be
punished as a court-martial may direct.

DEALING IN CAPTURED OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.

ART. 80. Any person subject to military law who buys, sells, trades, or in any way deals in
or disposes of captured or abandoned property, whereby he shall receive or expect any profit,
benefit, or advantage to himself or to any other person directly or indirectly connected with
himself, or who falls whenever such property comes into his possession or custody or within
his control to give notice thereof to the proper authority and to turn over such property to
the proper authority without delay, shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by fine or imprisonment,
or by such other punishment as a court-martial, military commission, or other military tribunal
may adjudge, or by any or all of said penalties.

RELIEVING, CORRESPONDING WITH, OR AIDING THE ENEMY.

ART. 81. Whosoever relieves the enemy with arms, ammunition, supplies, money, or other thing,
or knowingly harbors or protects or holds correspondence with or gives intelligence to the
enemy, either directly or indirectly, shall suffer death, or such other punishment as a court-martial
or military commission may direct.

SPIES.

ART. 82. Any person who in time of war shall be found lurking or acting as a spy in or about
any of the fortifications, posts, quarters, or encampments of any of the armies of the United
States, or elsewhere, shall be tried by a general court-martial or by a military commission,
and shall, on conviction thereof, suffer death.

MILITARY PROPERTY--WILLFUL OR NEGLIGENT LOSS, DAMAGE, OR WRONGFUL DISPOSITION OF.

ART. 83. Any person subject to military law who willfully or through neglect suffers to be
lost, spoiled, damaged, or wrongfully disposed of any military property belonging to the United
States shall make good the loss or damage and suffer such punishment as a court-martial may direct.

WASTE OR UNLAWFUL DISPOSITION OF MILITARY PROPERTY ISSUED TO SOLDIERS.

ART. 84. Any soldier who sells or wrongfully disposes of or willfully or through neglect injures
or loses any horse, arms, ammunition, accouterments, equipments, clothing, or other property
issued for use in the military service shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

DRUNK ON DUTY.

ART. 85.

MISBEHAVIOR OF SENTINEL.

ART. 86.

PERSONAL INTEREST IN SALE OF PROVISIONS.

ART. 87. Any officer commanding in any garrison, fort, barracks, camp, or other place where
troops of the United States may be serving who, for his private advantage, lays any duty or
imposition upon or is interested in the sale of any victuals or other necessaries of life brought
into such garrison, fort, barracks, camp, or other place for the use of the troops, shall be
dismissed from the service and suffer such other Punishment as a court-martial may direct.

INTIMIDATION OF PERSONS BRINGING PROVISIONS.

ART. 88. Any person subject to military law who abuses, intimidates, does violence to, or wrongfully
interferes with any person bringing provisions, supplies, or other necessaries to the camp,
garrison, or quarters of the forces of the United States shall suffer such punishment as a
court-martial may direct.

GOOD ORDER TO BE MAINTAINED AND WRONGS REDRESSED.

ART. 89. All persons subject to military law are to behave themselves orderly in quarters,
garrison, camp, and on the march; and any person subject to military law who commits any waste
or spoil, or willfully destroys any property whatsoever (unless by order of his commanding
officer), or commits any kind of depredation or riot, shall be punished as a court-martial
may direct. Any commanding officer who, upon complaint made to him, refuses or omits to see
reparation made to the party injured, in so far as the offender's pay shall go toward such
reparation, as provided for in article 105, shall be dismissed from the service or otherwise
punished as a court-martial may direct.

PROVOKING SPEECHES OR GESTURES

ART. 90. No person subject to military law shall use any reproachful or provoking speeches
or gestures to another; and any person subject to military law who offends against the provisions
of this article shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

DUELING.

ART. 91.

MURDER-RAPE.

ART. 92. Any person subject to military law who commits murder or rape shall suffer death or
imprisonment for life, as a court-martial may direct; but no person shall be tried by court-martial
for murder or rape committed within the geographical limits of the States of the Union and
the District of Columbia in time of peace.

VARIOUS CRIMES.

ART. 93. Any person subject to military law who commits manslaughter, mayhem, arson, burglary,
robbery, larceny, embezzlement, perjury, assault with intent to commit any felony, or assault
with intent to do bodily harm, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.

FRAUDS AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT.

ART. 94.

CONDUCT UNBECOMING AN OFFICER AND GENTLEMAN.

ART. 95. Any officer or cadet who is convicted of conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman
shall be dismissed from the service.

GENERAL ARTICLE.

ART. 96. Though not mentioned in these articles, all disorders and neglects to the prejudice
of good order and military discipline, all conduct of a nature to bring discredit upon the
military service, and all crimes or offenses not capital of which persons subject to military
law may be guilty shall be taken cognizance of by a general or special or summary court-martial,
according to the nature and degree of the offense, and punished at the discretion of such court.

DISCIPLINARY POWERS OF COMMANDING OFFICERS.

ART. 104. A person punished under authority fit this article who deems his punishment unjust
or disproportionate to the offense may, through the proper channel, appeal to the next superior
authority, but may in the meantime be required to undergo the punishment adjudged. The commanding
officer who imposes the punishment, his successor in command, and superior authority shall
have power to mitigate or remit any unexecuted portion of the punishment. The imposition and
enforcement of disciplinary punishment under authority of this article for any act or omission
shall not be a bar to trial by court-martial for a crime or offense growing out of the same
act or omission; but the fact that a disciplinary punishment has been enforced may be shown
by the accused upon trial, and when so shown shall be considered in determining the measure
of punishment to be adjudged in the event of a finding of guilty.

REDRESS OF INJURIES TO PERSON OR PROPERTY.

ART. 105. Whenever complaint is made to any commanding officer that damage has been done to
the property of any person or that his property has been wrongfully taken by persons subject
to military law, such complaint shall be investigated by a board consisting of any number of
officers from one to three, which board shall be convened by the commanding officer and shall
have, for the purpose of such investigation, power to summon witnesses and examine them upon
oath or affirmation, to receive depositions or other documentary evidence, and to assess the
damages sustained against the responsible parties. The assessment of damages made by such board
shall be subject to the approval of the commanding officer, and in the amount approved by him
shall be stopped against the pay of the offenders. And the order of such commanding officer
directing stoppages herein authorized shall be conclusive on any disbursing officer for the
payment by him to the injured parties of the stoppages so ordered.

Where the offenders can not be ascertained but the organization or detachment to which they
belong is known, stoppages to the amount of damages inflicted may be made and assessed in such
proportion as may be deemed just upon the individual members thereof who are shown to have
been present with such organization or detachment at the time the damages complained of were
inflicted, as determined by the approved findings of the board.

ARREST OF DESERTERS BY CIVIL OFFICIALS.

ART. 106. It shall be lawful for any civil officer having authority under the laws of the United
States, or of any State, Territory, District, or possession of the United States, to arrest
offenders, summarily to arrest a deserter from the military service of the United States and
deliver him into the custody of the military authorities of the United States.

SOLDIERS TO MAKE GOOD TIME LOST.

ART. 107. Every soldier who in an existing or subsequent enlistment deserts the service of
the United States or without proper authority absents himself from his organization, station,
or duty for more than one day, or who is confined for more than one day under sentence, or
while awaiting trial and disposition of his case, if the trial results in conviction, or through
the intemperate use of drugs or alcoholic liquor, or through disease or injury the result at
his own misconduct, renders himself unable for more than one day to perform duty, shall be
liable to serve, after his return to a full-duty status, for such period as shall, with the
time he may have served prior to such desertion, unauthorized absence, confinement, or inability
to perform duty, amount to the full term of that part of his enlistment period which he is
required to serve with his organization before being furloughed to the Army Reserve.

SOLDIERS--SEPARATION FROM THE SERVICE.

ART. 108. No enlisted man, lawfully inducted into the military service of the United States,
shall be discharged from said service without a certificate of discharge, signed by a field
officer of the regiment or other organization to which the enlisted man belongs or by the commanding
officer when no such field officer is present; and no enlisted man shall be discharged from
said service before his term of service has expired, except by order of the President, the
Secretary of War, the commanding officer of a department, or by sentence of a general Court-martial.

OATH OF ENLISTMENT.

ART. 109.

CHAPTER XV.

ENGLISH-FRENCH VOCABULARY.

COMMON WORDS.

Afternoon (this)  . . . . . . Cet après-midi.
Army (an) . . . . . . . . . . Une armée.
Bandage . . . . . . . . . . . Un bandage.
Bath  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un bain.
Bayonet . . . . . . . . . . . Une baïonnette.
Bed . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un lit.
Blanket . . . . . . . . . . . Une couverture
Boy . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un garçon.
Bullet  . . . . . . . . . . . Une balle.
                              un pruneau (soldier slang).
Camp  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un camp.
                              Un campement.
Cartridge . . . . . . . . . . Une cartouche.
Child . . . . . . . . . . . . Un enfant.
                              Une enfant.
Cook  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un cuisinier.
                              Un cuistot (slang).
                              Une Cuisinière (fem.).
Dance . . . . . . . . . . . . Un bal.
                              Une danse (one dance).
Dark  . . . . . . . . . . . . Obscur.
Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un jour.
Dead  . . . . . . . . . . . . Mort.
Deserter  . . . . . . . . . . Un déserteur.
Door  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une porte.
Farm  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une ferme.
Firearms  . . . . . . . . . . Des armes à feu.
Field gun . . . . . . . . . . Une pièce de campagne.
Flag  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un drapeau.
                              Un étendard (standard).
Forest  . . . . . . . . . . . Une forêt.
                              Un bois (woods).
                              Un boqueteau (clump of trees).
Friend  . . . . . . . . . . . Un ami.
                              Une amie.
Girl  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une jeune fille.
Guide . . . . . . . . . . . . Un guide.
Gun . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un fusil.
Halt! . . . . . . . . . . . . Halte!
Hand  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une main.
Hat . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un chapeau.
                              Un képi (cap).
                              Un casque (helmet).
                              Un feutre (campaign hat).
Head  . . . . . . . . . . . . La tête.
Headquarters  . . . . . . . . Le quartier-général.
Horse . . . . . . . . . . . . Un cheval.
Interpreter . . . . . . . . . Un interprète.
Knife . . . . . . . . . . . . Un couteau.
Lake  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un lac.
Man . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un homme.
Meat  . . . . . . . . . . . . De la viande.
Name  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un nom.
Night . . . . . . . . . . . . La nuit.
Noon  . . . . . . . . . . . . Midi.
Machine gun . . . . . . . . . Une mitrailleuse.
Mess call . . . . . . . . . . La soupe.
Password  . . . . . . . . . . Le mot de passe.
Pay . . . . . . . . . . . . . Le prêt (enlisted men).
                              La solde (officers).
Prisoner  . . . . . . . . . . Un prisonnier.
Recruit . . . . . . . . . . . Une recrue.
                              Un bleu (slang).
                              Un bleuet (slang).
                              Un blanc-bec (slang).
Restaurant  . . . . . . . . . Un restaurant.
                              Un cafe.
Road  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un chemin.
                              Une route.
Retreat . . . . . . . . . . . La retraite.
Reveille  . . . . . . . . . . Le réveil.
                              La diane.
Saber . . . . . . . . . . . . Un sabre.
Saddle  . . . . . . . . . . . Une selle.
Shoe  . . . . . . . . . . . . Des chaussures (shoes in general).
                              Des souliers (low shoes).
                              Des bottines (high shoes).
                              Des brodequins (marching shoes).
Shotgun . . . . . . . . . . . Un fusil de cirasse
Sick  . . . . . . . . . . . . Malade.
Soup  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une soup.
                              Un potage.
Spy . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un espion.
Supper  . . . . . . . . . . . Le sourer.
Sword . . . . . . . . . . . . Une épée.
Tent  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une tente.
Shelter tent  . . . . . . . . Une tente-abri.

NUMERALS.

One . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un, une. Two . . . . . . . . . . . . . Deux. Three . . . . .
. . . . . . . Trois. Four  . . . . . . . . . . . . Quatre. Five  . . . . . . . . . . . . Cinq(pronounce
sank). Six . . . . . . . . . . . . . Six (pronounce cease). Seven . . . . . . . . . . . . Sept
(pronounce set). Eight . . . . . . . . . . . . Huit (pronounce weet). Nine  . . . . . . . .
. . . . Neuf. Ten . . . . . . . . . . . . . Dix (pronounce deess) Eleven  . . . . . . . . .
. . Onze. Twelve  . . . . . . . . . . . Douze. Thirteen  . . . . . . . . . . Treize. Fourteen
. . . . . . . . . . Quatorze. Fifteen . . . . . . . . . . . Quinze. Sixteen . . . . . . . .
. . . Seize. Seventeen . . . . . . . . . . Dix-sept. Eighteen  . . . . . . . . . . Dix-huit.
Nineteen  . . . . . . . . . . Dix-neuf. Twenty  . . . . . . . . . . . Vingt (pronounce vant.)
Twenty-one  . . . . . . . . . Vingt-et-un. Thirty  . . . . . . . . . . . Trente. Thirty-one
. . . . . . . . . Trente-et-un. Thirty-two  . . . . . . . . . Trente-deux. Forty . . . . .
. . . . . . . Quarante. Fifty . . . . . . . . . . . . Cinquante. Sixty . . . . . . . . . .
. . Soixante. Seventy . . . . . . . . . . . Soixante-dix. Seventy-one . . . . . . . . . Soixante-et-onze.
Seventy-two . . . . . . . . . Soixante-douze. Eighty  . . . . . . . . . . . Quatre-vingt. Eighty-one
. . . . . . . . . Quatre-vingt-un. Ninety  . . . . . . . . . . . Quatre-vingt-dix. Ninety-one
. . . . . . . . . Quatre-vingt-onze. One hundred . . . . . . . . . Cent. One hundred and one
. . . . . Cent un. Two hundred . . . . . . . . . Deux cents. Two hundred and one . . . . .
Deux cent un. One thousand  . . . . . . . . Mille. Two thousand  . . . . . . . . Deux mille.
One thousand one hundred  . . Mille cent; onze cents. Thousands of soldiers . . . . Des milliers
de soldats. A million . . . . . . . . . . Un million. Two million men . . . . . . . Deux millions
d'hommes. A score . . . . . . . . . . . Une vingtaine. About forty men . . . . . . . Une quarantaine
d'hommes. Hundreds of men . . . . . . . Des centaines d'hommes.

CURRENCY, MEASURES, AND WEIGHTS.

1 cent  . . . . . . . . . . . Un sou; cinq centimes. 10 cents  . . . . . . . . . . Dix sous;
cinquante centimes. 20 cents (about)  . . . . . . Un francs. 1 dollar  . . . . . . . . . .
Cinq francs.

(The French have gold pieces of 10 francs and 20 francs; bank notes of 50 francs, 100 francs,
and higher. The gold pieces are probably replaced by bank notes now.)

1 meter (1.0936 yards)  . . . Un mètre. 1 kilometer (0.62138 mile)  . Un kilomètre.

NOTE:--For all ordinary purposes, the "kilomètre" = 5/8 of a mile; the "centimètre"--4/10 of
an inch.

1 league (2.48552 miles)  . . Une lieue.
1 hectare (2.4711 acres)  . . Un hectare.
1 gram (15.43239 grains troy) Un gramme.
1 kilogram (2.204621 pounds
  avoirdupois)  . . . . . . . Un kilogramme.
220.46 pounds avoirdupois . . Un quintal; 100 kilos.
2,204.6 pounds avoirdupois  . Une tonne; 1,000 kilos.

(Coal is sold by the tonne; grain and hay by the quintal. Dix quintaux de blé, de foin = 10
quintals of grain, of hay.)

1,0567 quart (liquid) . . . . Un litre. 26.417 gallons  . . . . . . . Un hectolitre. 0.9081
quart (dry)  . . . . . Un litre. 2.8379 bushels  . . . . . . . Un hectolitre.

(The litre, which is the principal unit of both fluid and dry measures, is the contents of
1 cubic décimètre (décimètre = 1/10 mètre).)

DAYS, MONTHS, AND SEASONS.

Sunday  . . . . . . . . . . . Dimanche. Monday  . . . . . . . . . . . Lundi. Tuesday . . .
. . . . . . . . Mardi. Wednesday . . . . . . . . . . Mercredi. Thursday  . . . . . . . . .
. Jeudi. Friday  . . . . . . . . . . . Vendredi. Saturday  . . . . . . . . . . Samedi. January
. . . . . . . . . . . Janvier. February  . . . . . . . . . . Février. March . . . . . . . .
. . . . Mars. April . . . . . . . . . . . . Avril. May . . . . . . . . . . . . . Mai. June
. . . . . . . . . . . . Juin. July  . . . . . . . . . . . . Juillet. August  . . . . . . .
. . . . Août (pronounce oo). September . . . . . . . . . . Septembre. October . . . . . . .
. . . . Octobre. November  . . . . . . . . . . Novembre. December  . . . . . . . . . . Décembre.
The seasons . . . . . . . . . Les saisons. Winter  . . . . . . . . . . . L'hiver. Spring  .
. . . . . . . . . . Le printemps. Summer  . . . . . . . . . . . L'été. Fall  . . . . . . .
. . . . . L'automne. Year  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un an; une année. Month . . . . . . . .
. . . . Un mois. Week  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un semaine. Day . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un
jour. Hour  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un heure. Minute  . . . . . . . . . . . Un minute. Second
. . . . . . . . . . . Une seconde.

COMMON PHRASES.

Good morning, sir, madam,  \  Bonjour, monsieur, madame,
  miss. Good afternoon     /    mademoiselle.
Good evening, sir . . . . . . Bonsoir, monsieur.
Good night, sir . . . . . . . Bonne nuit, monsieur.
Pardon me . . . . . . . . . . Pardon; je vous demande pardon.
Don't mention it  . . . . . . Je vous en prie.
How do you do?  . . . . . . . Comment allez-vous?
                              Comment ça va?
                              Comment vous portez-voue?
Very well, thank you  . . . . Très bien, merci.
                              Je vais bien, merci.
                              Ça va bien, merci.
                              Je me porte bien, merci.
Do not trouble yourself . . . Ne vous gênez pas.
                              Ne vous dérangez pas.
I am very glad to see you . . Je suis bien aise de vous voir.
                              Je suis content (heureux) de
                                vous voir.
What time is it?  . . . . . . Quelle heure est-it?
It is 10 o'clock  . . . . . . Il est dix heures.
Take care; look out . . . . . Prenez garde
Do not bother me  . . . . . . Ne me dérangez pas.
Stop here . . . . . . . . . . Arrêtez-vous ici.
Does Mr. -- live here?  . . . M. -- demeure-t-il ici?
Come in . . . . . . . . . . . Entrez.
You are very kind . . . . . . Voue êtes très aimable.
At what time does the first . A quelle heure part le premier
  train start?                  train?
What is the name of this  . . Comment s'appelle cette station
  station?                      (gare)?
I want  . . . . . . . . . . . Je désire; Je veux (stronger).
I do not want it  . . . . . . Je n'en veux pas.
Let me know what I owe you  . Dites-moi ce que je vous dois.
Are you not mistaken? . . . . Ne faites-vous pas erreur?
                              Ne vous trompez-vous pas?
Please give me  . . . . . . . Veuillez me donner.
Move on . . . . . . . . . . . Avancez.
                              Circulez. (Policeman.)
I want something to eat . . . Je désire quelque chose à manger.
Where is it?  . . . . . . . . Où est-ce?
Go and look for it  . . . . . Allez le chercher.
Take this letter to the . . . Portez cette lettre à la poste.
  post office
How much is it? . . . . . . . Combien?
                              Combien cela coûte-t-il?
It is dear  . . . . . . . . . C'est cher.
Thank you . . . . . . . . . . Merci.
                              Je vous en remercie.
Don't mention it  . . . . . . Il n'y a pas de quoi.
                              De rien.
Allow me to present my  . . . Permettez-moi de vous présénter
  friend ----                   mon ami ----.
I am glad to make your  . . . Je suis enchanté de faire votre
  acquaintance.                 connaissance.
How far is it?  . . . . . . . A quelle distance est-ce?
What can I do for you?  . . . Que puis-je faire pour vous?
Do you speak English? . . . . Parlez-vous anglais?
I do not speak French very  . Je ne parle pas très bien le
  well.                          français.
Where do you come from? . . . D'où venez-vous?
How did you come? . . . . . . Comment êtes-vous venu?
On foot, in a carriage, in  . A pied, eu voiture, en auto, en
 an auto, by rail, by boat,     chemin de fer, en bateau, à
 on a bicycle, on horseback,    bicyclette, à cheval,  en
 in an aeroplane.               aéroplane.

MILITARY TITLES, RANKS, AND GRADES.

General officers  . . . . . . Les officers généraux.
General Staff . . . . . . . . L'état-major général.
Field officers  . . . . . . . Les officers supérieurs.
Company officers  . . . . . . Les officers subalternes.
Enlisted men  . . . . . . . . Les hommes de troupe.
Noncommissioned officers  . . Les sous-officiers.
Private soldiers  . . . . . . Les simples soldats.
Colonel . . . . . . . . . . . Le colonel (addressed[14] as
                                "Mon colonel ").
Major . . . . . . . . . . . . Le commandant ("Mon commandant").
Captain . . . . . . . . . . . Le capitaine ("Mon capitaine").
                              Le piston (slang).
First lieutenant  . . . . . . Le lieutenant (en premier)
                                ("Mon lieutenant").
Second Lieutenant . . . . . . Le sous-lieutenant
                                ("Mon lieutenant").
A doctor  . . . . . . . . . . Un (médecin) major.
A sergeant  . . . . . . . . . Un sergent (addressed as
                                "Sergent").
                              Un maréchal des logis (mounted
                                service).
A corporal  . . . . . . . . . Un caporal ("Caporal").
                              Un brigadier (mounted service).
A private . . . . . . . . . . Un simple soldat.
A body of troops  . . . . . . Une troupe.
French troops . . . . . . . . Des troupes françaises.
A wagoner . . . . . . . . . . Un conducteur.
                              Un fourgonnier.
A horseshoer  . . . . . . . . Un maréchal-ferrant.
A saddler . . . . . . . . . . Un sellier.
A signaler  . . . . . . . . . Un signaleur.
A deserter  . . . . . . . . . Un déserteur.
A soldier of Infantry . . . . Un fantassin.
             Cavalry  . . . . Un cavalier.
             Artillery  . . . Un artilleur.
             Engineers  . . . Un sapeur-mineur.
        Quartermaster Corps . Un homme de l'intendance.
             Signal Corps . . Un homme du corps des signaux.
             Hospital Corps . Un infirmier.
     Line of Communications . Un garde des voies et
                                communications, G. V. C.
Infantry  . . . . . . . . . . L'infanterie.
Cavalry . . . . . . . . . . . La cavalarie.
Artillery . . . . . . . . . . L'artillerie.
Engineers . . . . . . . . . . Le genie.
Signal Corps  . . . . . . . . Le corps des signaux.
Hospital Corps  . . . . . . . Le corps de santé.
                              Le service de santé.
Aviation Corps  . . . . . . . Le corps d'aviation.

[Footnote 14: See note at the end of Chapter XV.]

MILITARY TERMS.

The headquarters  . . . . . . Le quartier général.
The train . . . . . . . . . . Le train des équipages.
Railway service . . . . . . . Le service des chemins de fer.
Telegraph service . . . . . . Le service des télégraphes.
Rural guards  . . . . . . . . La gendarmerie.
                              Des gendarmes.
A paymaster . . . . . . . . . Un trésorier.
A chaplain  . . . . . . . . . Un aumônier.
An army . . . . . . . . . . . Une armée.
General So-and-so's army  . . L'armée--(l'armée Foch).
An army corps . . . . . . . . Un corps d'armée.
A division  . . . . . . . . . Une division.
A brigade . . . . . . . . . . Une brigade.
A regiment  . . . . . . . . . Un régiment.
A battalion . . . . . . . . . Un bataillon.
A company . . . . . . . . . . Une compagnie.
A platoon . . . . . . . . . . Un peloton.
A section . . . . . . . . . . Une section.
A squad . . . . . . . . . . . Une escouade.
A detachment  . . . . . . . . Un détachement.
Barracks  . . . . . . . . . . Une caserne.
A camp  . . . . . . . . . . . Un camp (more or less permanent).
                              Un campement (temporary).
A cantonment  . . . . . . . . Un cantonnement.
Line  . . . . . . . . . . . . (Une) ligne.
Column  . . . . . . . . . . . (Une) colonne.
As skirmishers  . . . . . . . En tirailleurs.
Follow me, as skirmishers . . A moi, en tirailleurs.
Scouts  . . . . . . . . . . . Des éclaireurs.
A patrol  . . . . . . . . . . Une patrouille.
The advance guard . . . . . . L'avant-garde.
The rear guard  . . . . . . . L'arrière-garde.
Flankers  . . . . . . . . . . Des flanc-gardes.
The main body . . . . . . . . Le gros (de la colonne).
Combat train  . . . . . . . . Le train de combat.
Field train . . . . . . . . . Le train régimentaire.
Outposts  . . . . . . . . . . Des avant-postes.
Cossack posts . . . . . . . . Des avant-postes à la cosaque.
A sentinel  . . . . . . . . . Une sentinelle.
                              Un factionnaire.
On post . . . . . . . . . . . En faction.
                              De faction.
Guard mounting  . . . . . . . La garde montante (also new
                                guard).
The sentinel challenges:      \ La sentinelle crie: "Halte!
  "Halt! Who's there?"        /   Qui vive?"
The answer is "France"  . . . La réponse est: "France".
Advance with the countersign  Avance au ralliement.

(The person challenged gives the motd'ordre, which is the name of some general, and the sentinel
replies with the motde ralliement. which is the name of a battle or a city).

Go away; you can't pass . . . (Passe) au large.
Halt, or I fire . . . . . . . Halte, ou je fais feu.
Put down your arms  . . . . . Déposez vos armes.
Hands up! . . . . . . . . . . Levez les bras.
Face about  . . . . . . . . . (Faites) demi-tour.
Come here . . . . . . . . . . Venez ici.
A spy . . . . . . . . . . . . Un espion.
A flag of truce . . . . . . . Un drapeau blanc.
                              Un drapeau parlementaire.

UNIFORM, ARMS, CLOTHING, AND EQUIPMENT.

Clothing  . . . . . . . . . . Les vêtements, l'habillement.
Change your clothes . . . . . Changez de vêtement.
Overcoat (worn by French
  infantry) . . . . . . . . . Une capote.
Trouser . . . . . . . . . . . Un pantalon.
Breeches  . . . . . . . . . . Une culotte.
Shirt . . . . . . . . . . . . Une chemise.
Blouse  . . . . . . . . . . . Un dolman, une vareuse.
Cap . . . . . . . . . . . . . Un képi.
Campaign hat (United States)  Un (chapeau de) feutre.
Helmet  . . . . . . . . . . . Un casque (de tranchée).
Cap without visor worn by
  French off duty . . . . . . Un bonnet de police.
Tam-o'-Shanter worn by Alpine
  chasseurs . . . . . . . . . Un béret.
Shoes in general  . . . . . . Des chaussures.
Service shoes . . . . . . . . Des brodequins.
Leggins . . . . . . . . . . . Des guêtres.
Wrap putties  . . . . . . . . Des bandes molletières.
Leather putties . . . . . . . Des houseaux (or housseaux).
Full-dress uniform  . . . . . La grande tenue.
Dress uniform . . . . . . . . La petite tenue.
Field uniform . . . . . . . . La tenue de campagne.
Overcoat (mounted men)  . . . Un manteau.
Overcoat (officers) . . . . . Un manteau.
                              Un manteau-capote.
Fatigue coat  . . . . . . . . Le bourgeron.
Fatigue trousers (overalls) . Un pantalon de treillis.
Fatigue uniform . . . . . . . La tenue de corvée.
Magazine rifle  . . . . . . . Un fusil à répétition.
The barrel  . . . . . . . . . Le canon.
The bolt  . . . . . . . . . . Le verrou.
The ramrod  . . . . . . . . . La baguette.
The butt  . . . . . . . . . . La crosse.
The gun sling . . . . . . . . La bretelle.
The trigger . . . . . . . . . La détente.
Rear sight  . . . . . . . . . La hausse.
Front sight . . . . . . . . . Le guidon.
A bayonet . . . . . . . . . . Une baïonnette.
                              Rosalie (slang).
Ball cartridge  . . . . . . . Une cartouche à balle.
Blank cartridge . . . . . . . Une cartouche à blanc.
Dummy cartridge . . . . . . . Une fausse cartouche.
Belt  . . . . . . . . . . . . Un ceinturon.
Cartridge box . . . . . . . . Une cartouchière.
First-aid packet  . . . . . . Un paquet de pansement.
The pack  . . . . . . . . . . Le sac.
A haversack . . . . . . . . . Un étui-musette.
Canteen . . . . . . . . . . . Un bidon.
Tin cup . . . . . . . . . . . Un quart.
Mess can  . . . . . . . . . . Une gamelle.
Equipment . . . . . . . . . . L'équipement.
Compass . . . . . . . . . . . Une boussole.
Field glasses . . . . . . . . Des jumelles (de campagne).
Whistle . . . . . . . . . . . Un sifflet.
Revolver  . . . . . . . . . . Un revolver.

QUESTIONS ABOUT THE ROADS, ETC.

Pardon me, sir, do you speak  / Pardon,  monsieur, parlez-vous
  English?  . . . . . . . . . \   anglais?
(German, French, Italian      (Allemand, français, italien,
  Russian). . . . . . . . . .    russe).
All right, then show me,      / Très bien, alors indiquez-moi;
  please, the road to --  . . \   je vous prie, le chemin de --
Is it far from here?  . . . . Est-ce loin d'ici?
How long does it take to go   Combien faut-il de temps pour y
 there? . . . . . . . . . . .   aller?
How many kilomètres . . . . . Combien de kilomètres?
Is there a short cut? (road)  Y a-t-il un chemin de traverse?
Is there a short cut? (trail) Y a-t-il un sentier plus court?
Where does this road go?  . . Où mène cette route?
Are we on the right road to   / Sommes-nous sur le bon chemin
  go to ----? . . . . . . . . \   pour aller à ----?
Does this road go through     / Cette route passe-t-elle par
  Compiègne?  . . . . . . . . \   Compiègne?
Shall we find any villages on / Trouverons-nous des villages
  our road? . . . . . . . . . \   sur notre chemin?
Are there any other roads     / Y a-t-il d'autres chemins pour
  going to ----?  . . . . . . \   aller à ----?
Is this road in good
  condition?  . . . . . . . . Cette route est-elle en bon état?
Are there hills?  . . . . . . Y a-t-il des côtes (des coteaux)?
Are they steep? . . . . . . . Sont-elles raides?
Does the road go through      La route traverse-t-elle un pays
  open or wooded country? . .   découvert ou boisé?
Can we get through with       Peut-on passer avec de
  artillery?  . . . . . . . .   l'artillerie?
Can we get through with       / Peut-on passer avec de grosses
  heavily loaded wagons       |   voitures chargées (avec des
  (auto trucks)               \   camions-automobiles)?
Is this road practicable for  / Cette route est-elle praticable
  artillery?  . . . . . . . . \    pour l'artillerie?
Can infantry march on the     / L'infanterie peut-elle marcher
  sides of the roads? . . . . \    sur les côtés de la route?
Is the ground practicable?  . Le terrain est-il praticable?
Is the ground marshy? . . . . Le terrain est-il marécageux?
What is the nature of the
   ground?  . . . . . . . . . Quelle est la nature du sol?
Does the telegraph line       / Est-ce que la ligne télégraphique
  follow this road as far     |   (le télégraphe) suit cette
  as X                        \   route jusqu'à X?
Where does your railroad come
  from? . . . . . . . . . . . D'où vient votre chemin de fer?
Where does it go to?  . . . . Où va-t-il?
Is it single tracked or       / Est-il à une voie ou à deux voies
  double tracked the whole    |   sur tout le parcours?
  way?  . . . . . . . . . . . \
Where is the station? is it
   Far? . . . . . . . . . . . Où est la gare? Est-elle loin d'ici?
How can the river be crossed? Comment peut-on passer la rivière?
Is there a bridge? a ferry? . Y a-t-il un pont? un bac?
Are there fords?  . . . . . . Y a-t-il des passages à gué
                                (des gués)?
Can we get boats? . . . . . . Peut-on trouver des bateaux?
In that wood are there        / Dans ce bois, y a-t-il des
  clearings, ravines, brooks, |   clairières, des ravins, des
  marshes, pools? . . . . . . \   ruisseaux, des mares?
Are there any places near     / Y a-t-il des endroits près d'ici
  here for watering horses? . \   pour abreuver les chevaux?
Is the water good?  . . . . . L'eau est-elle bonne?
Is this water drinkable?  . . Est-ce de l'eau potable?
Are there watering troughs? . Y a-t-il des abreuvoirs?
Where is there good grass for / Où y a-t-il de bonne herbe pour
  animals?  . . . . . . . . . \   les animaux?
Can we buy provisions?  . . . Peut-on acheter des vivres?
Is there a field where we     / Y a-t-il un champ où nous pouvons
  can camp? . . . . . . . . . |   camper (installer notre
                              \   campement)?
Can you give me any           / Pouvez-vous me donner des
 information about the enemy? \   renseignements sur l'ennemi?
Please find me a guide who    / Veuillez me trouver un guide qui
  knows the country?  . . . . \   connaisse le pays.
We are going to follow this
  trail (tracks)  . . . . . . Nous allons suivre cette piste.
Crossroads  . . . . . . . . . Un carrefour.

TOWNS.

Where is the post-office and  / Où est le bureau des postes et
  telegraph office? . . . . . \   télégraphes?
The postmaster  . . . . . . . / Le directeur des postes et
                              \   télégraphes.
The mail  . . . . . . . . . . Le courrier.
When was the last mail        / A quelle heure a-t-on fait la
  distributed?  . . . . . . . \   derrière distribution?
General delivery  . . . . . . Poste restante.
Are there any letters for --? Y a-t-il des lettres pour --?
I should like to send a       / Je voudrais expédier un
  telegram  . . . . . . . . . \   télégramme.
Have you received a telegram  / Avez-vous reçu un télégramme
  for ----? . . . . . . . . . \   (une dépêche) pour ----?
A telegraph instrument  . . . Un appareil (télégraphique).
Can you tell me where the     / Pourriez-vous me dire où se
  mayor's office is?  . . . . \   trouve la mairie?
I couldn't tell you; I am a   / Je ne saurais vous renseigner;
  stranger here . . . . . . . \   je ne connais pas la ville.
Good-morning, sir, are you    / Bonjour, Monsieur, êtes-vous
  the  mayor? . . . . . . . . \   le maire?
No, sir, I am his assistant . Non, Monsieur, je suis son adjoint.
I should like to speak to     / Je voudrais parler au maire
  the mayor himself . . . . . \   lui-même.
Listen, sir. A detachment     / Ecoutez, monsieur; Un détachement
  will arrive here to-morrow  |   arrivera ici demain matin à
  morning at 5 o'clock  . . . \   cinq heures.
Can you arrange to lodge      / Povez-vous prendre de
  2,000 men for two days? . . |   dispositions pour loger 2,000
                              \   hommes pendant deux jours?
A policeman . . . . . . . . . Un sergent de ville, un agent de
                                la paix.

RAILROADS.

The station agent . . . . . . Le chef de gare.
The conductor . . . . . . . . Le conducteur.
The engineer  . . . . . . . . Le mécanicien.
The fireman . . . . . . . . . Le chauffeur.
The brakeman  . . . . . . . . Le serre-freins.
The telegraph operator  . . . Le télégraphiste.
An engine . . . . . . . . . . Une locomotive.
Passenger cars  . . . . . . . Des wagons (de voyageurs).
Flat cars . . . . . . . . . . Des trucks.
Box cars  . . . . . . . . . . Des wagons de marchandises.
Stock cars  . . . . . . . . . Des wagons à bestiaux.
An express train  . . . . . . Un train express.
A through train . . . . . . . Un train direct.
A local train . . . . . . . . Un train omnibus.
A passenger train . . . . . . Un train de voyageurs.
A freight train . . . . . . . Un train de marchandises.
To entrain the troops . . . . Embarquer les troupes.
To detrain the troops . . . . Débarquer les troupes.
To get on a train . . . . . . Monter dans un train.
To get off a train  . . . . . Descendre d'un train.
The railroad track  . . . . . La-voie (ferrée).
A side track  . . . . . . . . Une voie de garage.
A ticket  . . . . . . . . . . Un billet.
A round trip ticket . . . . . Un billet d'aller et retour.
One way only  . . . . . . . . Aller seulement.
The ticket window . . . . . . Le guichet.
At what time does the Paris   / A quelle heure part le train
  train start?  . . . . . . . \   pour Paris?
It is late (15 minutes late)  Il est en retard (de quinze
                                minutes).
Do we have to change cars?  . Faut-il changer de train?
The train stops . . . . . . . Le train s'arrête.
All aboard! . . . . . . . . . En voiture!
The train starts  . . . . . . Le train s'ébranle.

RATIONS AND FOOD.

Provisions (in general) . . . Les vivre.
The ration  . . . . . . . . . La ration.
Fresh beef  . . . . . . . . . De la viande fraîche.
Bacon . . . . . . . . . . . . Du lard.
Flour . . . . . . . . . . . . De la farine.
Soft bread  . . . . . . . . . Du pain frais.
Hard bread (crackers) . . . . Du biscuit.
Field bread . . . . . . . . . Du pain de guerre.
Corn meal . . . . . . . . . . De la farine de maïs.
Coffee  . . . . . . . . . . . Du café.
Sugar . . . . . . . . . . . . Du sucre.
Eggs  . . . . . . . . . . . . Des oeufs.
Chickens  . . . . . . . . . . Des poulets.
Potatoes  . . . . . . . . . . Des pommes de terre.
Peas  . . . . . . . . . . . . Des pois.
String beans  . . . . . . . . Des haricots verts.
Vegetables (in general) . . . Des légumes.
An apple  . . . . . . . . . . Une pomme.
A pear  . . . . . . . . . . . Une poire.
A cherry  . . . . . . . . . . Une cerise.
A peach . . . . . . . . . . . Une pêche.
Cheese  . . . . . . . . . . . Du fromage.
Wine  . . . . . . . . . . . . Du vin.
Beer  . . . . . . . . . . . . De la bière.
A glass of beer . . . . . . . Un bock.
I am hungry . . . . . . . . . J'ai faim.
Bring me something to eat     Apportez-moi quelque chose à
  please  . . . . . . . . . .   manger, s'il vous-plaît.
I am thirsty  . . . . . . . . J'ai soif.
Please give me a glass of     Veuillez me donner un verre
  Water . . . . . . . . . . .   d'eau.
Waiter, I'll take a beefsteak Garçon, je désire un bifteck.
Some black coffee . . . . . . Du café noir.
Coffee with milk  . . . . . . Du café au lait.
Rolls . . . . . . . . . . . . Des petits pains.
Crescent rolls  . . . . . . . Des croissants.

HOSPITALS.

A field hospital  . . . . . . Une ambulance.
A hospital (in general) . . . Un hôpital (plural: des hôpitaux).
A dressing station  . . . . . Un poste de secours.
A first-aid dressing  . . . . Un pansement sommaire.
Red Cross . . . . . . . . . . La Croix Rouge.
A doctor  . . . . . . . . . . Un médecin.
                              Un docteur.
A surgeon . . . . . . . . . . Un chirurgien.
A military surgeon  . . . . . Un (médecin) major.
Assistant surgeon . . . . . . Un aide-major.
A male nurse, hospital corps
  man . . . . . . . . . . . . Un infirmier.
A female nurse  . . . . . . . Une infirmière.
An ambulance  . . . . . . . . Une ambulance.
A stretcher (litter)  . . . . Un brancard.
A litter bearer . . . . . . . Un brancardier.
A roll of bandages  . . . . . Un rouleau de bandage.
A first-aid packet  . . . . . Un paquet de pansement.
A wounded man . . . . . . . . Un blessé.
I am sick . . . . . . . . . . Je suis malade.
I have a fever  . . . . . . . J'ai la fièvre.
I have chills and fever . . . J'ai des frissons de fièvre.
I am constipated  . . . . . . Je suis constipé.
I have diarrhea . . . . . . . J'ai la diarrhée.

POINTS OF THE COMPASS.

North . . . . . . . . . . . . Le nord. South . . . . . . . . . . . . Le sud. East  . . . .
. . . . . . . . L'est. West  . . . . . . . . . . . . L'ouest. Northeast . . . . . . . . . .
Le nord-est. Southeast . . . . . . . . . . Le sud-est. Northwest . . . . . . . . . . Le nord-ouest.
Southwest . . . . . . . . . . Le sud-ouest.

TRENCH WARFARE.

Trench warfare  . . . . . . . La guerre des tranchées.
                              La guerre de position.
                              La guerre de taupe (moles).
Trench  . . . . . . . . . . . Une tranchée.
Communication trench  . . . . Un boyau (de communication).
The parapet . . . . . . . . . Le parapet.
A loophole  . . . . . . . . . Un créneau.
                              Une meurtrière.
A grenade . . . . . . . . . . Une grenade.
A grenadier, bomber . . . . . Un grenadier.
Barbed wire . . . . . . . . . Du fil de fer barbelé.
Barbed wire entanglement  . . Un réseau de fils de fer barbelés.
Trench mortar . . . . . . . . Un mortier.
                              Un crapouillaud.
                              Minenwerfer (German).
Bomb  . . . . . . . . . . . . Une bombe.
Howitzer  . . . . . . . . . . Un obusier.
Machine gun . . . . . . . . . Une mitrailleuse.
Fieldpiece  . . . . . . . . . Une pièce de campagne.
75 millimeter field gun . . . Une pièce de soixante-quinze.
Siege gun . . . . . . . . . . Une piece de siège.
120 long  . . . . . . . . . . Cent vingt long.
120 short . . . . . . . . . . Cent vingt court.
77 (German) . . . . . . . . . Soixante-dix-sept (allemand).
Shell . . . . . . . . . . . . Un obus.
                              Une marmite (slang).
                              Un colis à domicile (slang).
Shrapnel  . . . . . . . . . . Un shrapnell.
                              Un rageur (slang).
Periscope . . . . . . . . . . Un périscope.
Trench knife  . . . . . . . . Un couteau de tranchée.
Dugout  . . . . . . . . . . . Un abri dans les tranchées.
                              Un cagibi (slang).
                              Une cagna (slang).
                              Un gourbi (slang).
                              Une guitoune (slang).

NOTE.--In addressing an officer of grade superior to his own, an officer must use the possessive
adjective; a senior addressing a junior uses the title of the grade only. Thus: A major to
a colonel says "Mon colonel," but the colonel to the major would say "Commandant."

APPENDIX.

FORM FOR LAST WILL AND TESTAMENT.

List Will and Testament

OF . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

I, . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . of . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . do make, publish, and declare this my last will and testament.

I give, devise, and bequeath to[15]  . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
And I do give, devise, and bequeath all the rest and residue
of my estate,  both real and personal, to  . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
heirs and assigns forever[16]  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
I hereby appoint . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . executor of
this my last will and testament, and I desire that . . . . .
shall not be required to give bond for the performance of that
office.

Witness my hand this[17] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
day of . . . . . . . . . . . . , 191
                                 . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

Signed, published, and declared by . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the above-named testator, as and for his last will and testament,
in the presence of us, who, at his request and in his presence, and in the presence of each
other, have subscribed our names as witnesses thereto.[18]

                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                           Residence:  . . . . . . . . . . .

                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                           Residence:  . . . . . . . . . . .

                       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
                           Residence:  . . . . . . . . . . .

[Footnote 15: Here insert specific legacies and devises.]

[Footnote 16: If the residue of the estate is given to several persons, add here the manner
in which it is to be divided, as "in equal shares as tenants in common."]

[Footnote 17: If the will is made in Nevada, or if the testator has real estate in that State,
he should affix his seal.]

[Footnote 18: If the will is made in Louisiana, unless it is wholly in the handwriting of the
testator, there should be seven witnesses and a notary at the "sealing up." If wholly in his
handwriting no formalities are required.]

INDEX.

Abbreviations on maps
Advance guards
Advance party of advance guard
Advice to riflemen
Aiming rifle
Alignments
Ammunition
Arm signals
Arms. (See Field kit.)
Articles of War:
  Extracts from
  Reading
Assembling Infantry Equipment
Ball cartridges
Battle sight
Bayonet:
  Charge
  Description of
  Fix
  Unfix
Bayonet, manual of:
  Attacks
  Combat
  Combined movements
  Defenses
  Fencing exercises
  Foot movements
  General rules
  Instruction without bayonet
  Instruction with rifle
  Instruction without rifle
  Suggestions for fencing at will
Blank cartridges
Blanket roll
Blanks, message
Blisters
Bugle signals
Calling the shot
Camp:
  Making camp
  Service and duties
Care of feet
Care of rifle
Cartridges:
  Ball
  Blank
  Dummy
  Guard
Cleaning pistol
Cleaning rifle
Close order, company drill
Clothing. (See Uniforms.)
Coast Artillery companies
Codes used in signaling
  General service code (International Morse code)
  Two-arm semaphore code
  Wig-wag code
  Letter codes--
    Cavalry
    Field Artillery
    Infantry
Combat
  Exercises
Commander of the guard
Commands, Infantry Drill Regulations
Company inspection
Company, school of:
  Close order drill--
    Alignment
    At ease and route step
    Facing or marching to the rear
    Front into line
    Movements on fixed pivot
    Movements on the moving pivot
    On right (left) into line
    Rules
    To diminish the front of a column of squads
    To dismiss company
    To form the company
  Division of company
  Extended order drill--
    Deployments
    Rules for deployment
    The advance
    The company acting alone
    The company in support
    The fire attack
  Fire--
    Classes of firing
    Fire control
    Fire direction
    Fire discipline
    General rules
    Ranges
    The target
  Instruction
  Position of officers, noncommissioned officers, guides, etc.
  Position of platoons and squads
Compliments from guards
Contours
Conventional signs on maps
Cooking, individual
Coordination in firing rifle
Corporal of the guard
Cossack post
Course in small-arms firing
Courtesies in conversation
Courtesy, military
Cover, use of
Datum plane on maps
Definition, Infantry Drill Regulations
Details and rosters, interior guards
Directions on maps
Discipline
  Fire discipline
Distances on maps
Drill (See Infantry Drill Regulations):
  Close order
  Extended order
  General rules
Drill regulations, all arms
Dummy cartridges
Engineer companies
English-French vocabularies
Enlistment oath
Equipment:
  Assembling
  Part of
Extended order drill
Facings
Feet, care of
Field exercises
Field kit
Field message blanks
Field service:
  Advance guard
    Advance party
    Patrols
    Point
    Reserve
    Support
  Combat
  Flank guards
  Outposts--
    Cossack posts
    Duties of
    Line of observation
    Line of resistance
    March outpost
    Outguards
    Patrols
    Pickets
    Reserves
    Sentinels
    Sentry squads
    Supports
    Patrolling
    Principles of Infantry training
    Rear guards
    Rifle trenches
Field Service Regulations
Fire:
  Control
  Direction
  Ranges
  Rapid firing
  Targets
Firing positions
Firing with rests
First-aid rules
Flag signals
Flank guards
Formations, general rules
Forage ration
Form for last will and testament
French-English vocabulary
General service code
Grain ration
Ground forms on maps
Guard cartridges
Guard duty (extracts from Manual of Interior):
  Classification of interior guards
  Color sentinels
  Commander of the guard
  Compliments from guards
  Corporal of the guard
  Countersigns
  Details
  Flags
  Guard mounting
    Formal
    Informal
  Guard patrols
  Guarding prisoners
  Introduction
  Musician of the guard
  Orderlies
  Orders for sentinels
  Paroles
  Prisoners
  Privates of the guard
  Relieving the old guard
  Retreat gun
  Reveille gun
  Rosters
  Sergeant of the guard
  Watchmen
Guard mounting
  Formal
  Informal
Gun sling, use of
Hashures on map
Hygiene, personal
Individual cooking
  Recipes
Infantry Drill Regulations, extracts from:
  Company inspection
  Definitions
  General rules for drills and formations
  Introduction
  Manual of the bayonet
  Manual of tent pitching
  Orders, commands, and signals
  School of the company
  School of the soldier
  School of the squad
Infantry equipment, assembling
Infantry training principles
Insignia:
  Noncommissioned officers
  Officers
Inspection:
  Company
Interior guard duty, Manual of. (See Guard duty.)
International Morse code
Intrenching tools
Kit. (See Field kit; Service kit; Surplus kit.)
Laws governing Army
Line of observation
Line of resistance
Loading and firings
Loyalty
Making maps
Manual of arms
Manual of the Bayonet. (See Bayonet, Manual of.)
Manual of Interior Guard Duty. (See Guard duty.)
Manual of Tent Pitching. (See Tent Pitching, Manual of.)
Maps:
  Abbreviations
  Contours
  Datum plane
  Directions
  Distances
  Ground forms
  Hashures
  Making (sketching)
  Orienting
  Reading
  Ridges
  Scales
  Signs
  Slopes
  Stream lines
  Valleys
  Vertical intervals
Marching
  Preparation for
Marksmanship, preliminary training
Message blanks
Metal fouling solution for cleaning rifle
Military courtesy
Morse, international code. (See General service code.)
National Anthem
Noncommissioned officers:
  Corporal of guard
  Insignia
  Precedence
  Rank
  Sergeant of guard
Oath of enlistment
Obedience
Observation, line of. (See Line of observation.)
Officers:
  Insignia
  Precedence
  Rank
Orders:
  How obeyed
  Infantry Drill Regulations
Orienting maps
Outguards
Outposts
Pack
  Close
  Open
Patrolling
Patrols:
  Advance guards
  Outpost
Peep sight
Personal hygiene
Pickets
Point of advance guard
Pistol:
  Cleaning
  Practice
Pivots:
  Turn on fixed
  Turn on moving
Position of the soldier
Precedence:
  Noncommissioned officers
  Officers
Principles of Infantry training
Prisoners
Privates of the guards
Range estimators
Rank:
  Noncommissioned officers
  Officers
Rapid firing
Rations:
  Carried on person
  Cooking
  Emergency
  Forage
  Grain
  Kinds of
Reading maps
Regulations, Army
Regulations, Drill, all arms
Regulations, Field Service
Regulations Governing Army
Relieving the old guard
Reserve:
  Of advance guard
  Of outpost
Resistance, line of. (See Line of resistance.)
Rests
Retreat gun
Reveille gun
Revolver practice
Ridges on maps
Rifle:
  Aiming
  Battle sight
  Care of
  Cleaning
  Coordination in firing
  Description of
  Plate showing principal parts
  Sight adjustment
  Trenches
Rosters, interior guards
Rules (see First-aid rules):
  General Rules for Drills and Formations
  Governing saluting
Salutes:
  Hand
  Rifle
  Saber
  Sentinels
Saluting
  Rules governing
Scales on maps
School of the company. (See Company, school of.)
School of the soldier. (See Soldier, school of.)
School of the squad. (See Squad, school of.)
Semaphore, two-arm signaling code
Sentinels:
  Interior guard, orders for
  Of outpost
Sentry squad
Sergeant of the guard
Service kit
Shoes
Sights:
  Adjustment
  Battle sight
  Open sight
  Peep sight
  Table of sight corrections
Signalling, general instructions
Signal flags
Signals:
  Arm
  Bugle
  Enemy in sight
  Firing line and reserve
  Flag
  Other signals
  Sound
  Take cover
  Two arm semaphore
  Whistle
  Wig-wag
Sketching
Slopes on maps
Small-arms firing course
Socks
Soda solution for cleaning rifle
Soldier, school of:
  Duties of instructor
  Eyes right or left
  Facings
  Instruction without arms
  Manual of arms
  Position of the soldier on attention
  Rifle salute
  Salute with the hand
  Salute with saber
  Steps and marchings
    Back step
    Change step
    Quick time
    Side step
    The half step
    To halt
    To march by the flank
    To march to the rear
    To mark time
  The bayonet
  The inspection
  The rests
  To dismiss the squad
Solutions for cleaning rifle
Squad, school of:
  Alignments
  Instruction
  Kneeling and lying down
  Loadings and firings
  Observation
  The assembly
  The oblique march
  The use of cover
  To cease firing
  To deploy as skirmishers
  To fire at will
  To fire by clip
  To fire by volley
  To follow the corporal
  To form squad
  To increase or diminish intervals
  To load
  To set the sight
  To stack and take arms
  To suspend firing
  To take intervals and distance
  To turn on fixed pivot
  To turn on moving pivot
  To unload
Star-Spangled Banner
Steps and marchings
Streams lines on maps
Subsistence. (See Rations.)
Support:
  Advance guard
  Outpost
Surplus kit
Swabbing solution for cleaning rifle
Target practice:
  Advice to riflemen
  Aiming rifle
  Battle sight
  Calling the shot
  Coordination
  Firing positions
  Preliminary training in marksmanship
  Sight adjustment
  Table of sight corrections
  Targets
  The course in small-arms firing
  Trigger squeeze
Targets
Tent Pitching, Manual of:
  Conical wall tent
  Folding tents
  Pitch all type Army tents (except shelter and conical
    wall tents)
  Shelter tent
  Sleeping bags
  Striking tents
Toilet articles
Trenches, rifle
Trigger squeeze
Two-arm semaphore code
Uniforms
  Care of
  Disposing of
  Dress
  Full dress
  How worn
  Service
Use of cover
Valleys on maps
Vertical intervals on maps
Visual signaling (See Signals):
  In general
  Flag
Vocabulary--English-French
Whistle signals
Wig-wag signaling
Will, form for last will and testament
Windage corrections
Wind gauge

