But after all, Madam, Whether this is such a Scheme as can ever be reduc'd in Practice; whether
so noble a Structure as I am speaking of, can be erected upon so rotten a Foundation; whether
the Wound is not Gangreen'd, and must be cur'd by Excision; I say, whether such a Regulation
of the Stage be possible, must be left to those who have Skill and Authority to try the Experiment.
In the mean time, it will be every one's Duty to run from a Place of such Infection, least
they contribute to the spreading a Disease which may, in time, prove Fatal to the whole Nation.
But I forget, Madam, I am intrenching upon your Patience, while I detain you in a place you
have so long abandon'd. I am fallen upon a Subject, which 'tis difficult not to say much of:
but I shall no longer interrupt your better Thoughts, than while I beg Pardon for this Trouble,
who am,

                                                                Madam,
                                               Your very Humble Servant.
                                                              Jan. 10th.
                                                                   1704. / London, / Printed,
and are to be Sold by J. Nutt / near Stationers-Hall, 1704 / [enclosed
within double frame of rules]

Collation: A8 B4. Pp. [ 1-] 24. P. [1] title, as above; p. [2] blank; pp. 3-24 text.

Three editions were issued in 1704. If we take the author's words literally, the pamphlet was
written between the "Great Storm" of November 26, 1703 and the day of fasting decreed by Queen
Anne for January 19, 1704. According to Arthur Bedford ('The Evil and Danger of Stage Plays'
... London, 1706) the pamphlet was published "At the Time of the Fast ..."

                                                            Colton Storm

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

The Editors of the Augustan Reprint Society wish to thank the following people for assistance
rendered during the first year of the society's publication:

      Mr. Warner G. Rice, Director of the Library, University of
      Michigan.
      Mr. Stanley Pargellis, Director of the Newberry Library, Chicago.
      Mr. William Jackson, Director of the Houghton Library, Harvard
      University.
      Mr. R. B. Downs, Director of the Library, University of Illinois.
      Mr. Leslie Bliss, Director of the Henry E. Huntington Library, San
      Marino, California.
      Mr. Colton Storm, Curator of Manuscripts and Maps, William L.
      Clements Library, University of Michigan.
      Alvina Woodford, Photostat Department, General Library, University
      of Michigan.
      Cal Markham, Edwards Bros., Ann Arbor.

Publications

The above schedule is subject to slight modification. On the whole the choices were made in
response to requests by members of the Society. You are urged to write the editors, who are
anxious to know, not only what you would like to see reprinted, but also what items already
printed you have found most useful, and what sort of information you think is most profitable
to include in the Introductions. At present we offer a minimum of six issues annually. As soon
as the Society's membership increases sufficiently to warrant it, we shall bring out additional
publications at no extra charge.

Future Plans

It has seemed desirable that for the Second Year we should continue the present series (on
Wit, on Poetry and Language, and on the Stage). But next year we hope to run one or two new
series: Rare Poems, Rare Plays, Swiftiana, Drydeniana, Popeana, Rare Periodicals, or some such
unifying topic or theme. Send us your suggestions for items in these or in the present series.
All suggestions are listed in our files; and our policy in publications will be determined
by the requests of members.

Bibliographical Notes

From time to time we shall include Bibliographical Notes in our publications. If members find
this addition valuable, it will become a regular feature of the Reprints.

Membership Fees

With this issue we conclude our publications for the First Year. If your membership expires,
please send us your renewal before May 1, so that you will not miss the first issue of the
Second Year.

Back Numbers

A limited supply of back numbers is still available. Publications of the first year may be
secured by members for $2.50, the annual membership rate.

Libraries

Libraries as well as individuals are eligible for membership. Because the publications are
issued without profit it will be impossible to allow discounts to libraries, agents, or booksellers.

Foreign Subscriptions

Our agent for British subscriptions is B. H. Blackwell, Broad Street, Oxford, ENGLAND.