"Ah, do, Miss Clara; I've something to tell you about a little boy I saw this morning," pleaded
little golden-head, peering through an evergreen arch. "Do stay and see the Christmas tree
lighted after dinner," besought all four, gathering closely around me.

But aunt Clara was engaged to dine at the square old house over the way, with the dear old
lady who could not see the pine wreaths that made her old-fashioned parlor so sweet with their
resinous, balmy fragrance.

"They remind me of the times when my girls and boys were all about me so gay and happy, and
the old house resounded with their 'Merry Christmas.' 'Tis many a year now, dear Clara, since
there was a merry Christmas here; but happy Christmases there have been, thank God, not a few.
A happy Christmas, dear, to you, and thanks for brightening the day for me," said the old lady,
with a gentle sigh, as I placed her at the quiet table.

A merry, merry Christmas to all the little "Merrys" who read this story. Do not forget that
there are homes where live forlorn little Mikes and Jimmys, whom you can make glad in this
glad time; and do not forget that there are sorrowing homes which the mere sight and sound
of your bright young faces and voices will brighten and cheer.

                                                    E. G. C.

ANNIE.

    I've a sweet little pet; she is up with the lark,
    And at eve she's asleep when the valleys are dark,
    And she chatters and dances the blessed day long,
    Now laughing in gladness, now singing a song.
    She never is silent; the whole summer day
    She is off on the green with the blossoms at play;
    Now seeking a buttercup, plucking a rose,
    Or laughing aloud at the thistle she blows.

    She never is still; now at some merry elf
    You'll smile as you watch her, in spite of yourself;
    You may chide her in vain, for those eyes, full of fun,
    Are smiling in mirth at the mischief she's done;
    And whatever you do, that same thing, without doubt,
    Must the mischievous Annie be busied about;
    She's as brown as a nut, but a beauty to me,
    And there's nothing her keen little eyes cannot see.

    She dances and sings, and has many sweet airs;
    And to infant accomplishments adding her prayers,
    I have told everything that the darling can do,
    For 'twas only last summer her years numbered two.
    She's the picture of health, and a southern-born thing
    Just as ready to weep as she's ready to sing,
    And I fain would be foe to lip that hath smiled
    At this wee bit of song of the dear little child.

IF; OR, BESSIE GREEN'S HOLIDAY.

It seems absurd to say so, and at first sight almost impossible, that that one little word
of only two letters could have so much power, and yet there is no doubt that the constant use
of "if" spoilt Bessie Green's holiday and took away from it all the enjoyment and pleasure
which she imagined a long summer day spent in the country would give. How she had thought about
it and looked forward to it for weeks beforehand! Her parents were poor, hardworking people
who rarely left home, and so the very idea of a treat like this was delightful, and she scarcely
slept the night before, so afraid was she of not being ready in time. I cannot tell you how
often she got up in the course of the night, either to see what o'clock it was or to look out
of the window and wonder whether it was going to be a fine or a wet day, but it seemed to her
as if morning would never come. However, long before six she was up and dressed, and with one
last good-bye to her mother through the kitchen door was off to the station. And very soon
the train went speeding away from the smoky streets of the city toward the green fields and
shady lanes of the country.

Now, if Bessie Green had been as wise as her companions, she would have done as they did--looked
out of the window and admired all she saw passing by, and so have begun the enjoyment of the
day; for to eyes unaccustomed to such scenes even the cows and sheep grazing in the meadows
or the horses galloping off across the fields frightened by the train were all new and amusing
sights. But our foolish little friend, instead of doing this, began to look first at her own
dress and then at her neighbors', and thereby she grew discontented: "If I only had a felt
hat with a red feather in it, like Mary Jones', instead of this straw one with a plain bit
of blue ribbon round it, how I should like it! and if mother would buy me a smart muslin frock,
such as Emma Smith wears, how much better it would be than the cotton frocks she always gets
for me!" And she pouted and frowned and looked so miserable that her schoolfellows would have
wondered what was the matter if they had noticed her, but they were so busy thinking of other
things that they never saw there was anything amiss. Happy children! They had resolved to enjoy
themselves, and they did so from morning till night, while unhappy little Bessie let discontent
creep in, and so her holiday--that day she had looked forward to so much--was, as I said before,
spoilt.

Ah! I fear there are many people in this world, both young and old, who do as Bessie did: instead
of being contented with the state of life in which God has placed them, and doing their best
to make themselves and others happy, they let this little word "if" creep in on every occasion,
and in too many cases spoil not one day only, but their whole lives.

