Mrs. NORRIS is evidently a specialist in unconventional situations. In her last novel her theme
was the intrigue between a man and his step-mother. In Sisters (MURRAY) it is the passion of
a man for his living wife's married sister, and in neither case does the author seem to be
conscious of anything out of the ordinary. Not that there is any air of naughtiness about the
business. Peter, a rich cripple, loved Cherry, the youngest and prettiest of the three Strickland
girls. But Martin, a casual impecunious stranger, stepped in and took her in one bite before
Peter could quite realise she was no longer a child. So in default he married Alix, who was,
incidentally, worth six of her. Meeting his Cherry, disillusioned about an unsatisfactory and
unsuccessful Martin, he reaches out his hand for this forbidden fruit. Whereupon Alix, the
selfless, drives herself and Martin over a cliff by way of making things smooth for Peter and
Cherry, which was inconsiderate, if resourceful; for, while Alix is happily killed, poor Martin
only breaks his back, so that all may end with the balance on the credit side of the Recording
Angel's ledger with Cherry nursing her hopeless invalid. An unlikely story, pleasantly and
competently told.

       *       *       *       *       *

My appreciation of The Ancient Allan (CASSELL) may be measured by my keen disappointment on
finding that the concluding pages of the book were absent in the copy vouchsafed to me, and
that (apparently) in their place a double dose of pages 279-294 was offered. Nevertheless I
can safely assert that you will find this a yarn worth reading, for here Sir RIDER HAGGARD
is in as good form as ever he was, when both he and Allan Quatermain were younger. Lady Ragnall,
who is an old friend to readers of The Ivory Child, reappears here, having in her possession
a mysterious and potent herb, which she persuades Allan to inhale. Then the fun takes on a
great liveliness. Allan is wafted back to the days when Egypt was under the domination of the
Persians, and he in his ancient existence performed some of the very doughtiest of deeds. No
one living can tell such a tale with a greater dexterity and zest than Sir RIDER. And at that
I will leave it, with one more regret that I was not allowed to be present when Allan recovered
from the effects of Taduki (the herb that did it).

       *       *       *       *       *

I find that when the medicine of thought is wrapped up in the jam of fiction I generally take
both more willingly than either alone. But if my author, holding out the spoonful, protests
that the jam isn't jam at all but part of the dose, then my mouth does not open with quite
its usual happy confidence. Miss W.M. LETTS has said something of the sort about her great
little book, Corporal's Corner (WELLS, GARDNER, DARTON), and I wish she hadn't. It is cast
in the form of letters written by a soldier in hospital to a nurse who has been good to him
and whose lover has been killed at the Front. Miss Letts introduces it with a foreword which
conveys the impression that a real Corporal Jack wrote these letters to a real nurse; but the
letters themselves convince--or very nearly convince--me that the foreword itself is a mere
device of authorship, and one which defeats its own intention of adding weight to the wise
and tender and often humorous things the writer has to say. From his own death-bed Corporal
Jack, together with his own love-story and that of his chum Mac, writes what he can of comfort
to his friend, and whether his hand or Miss LETTS'S held the pen the book is the work of someone
who knows all about sorrow, and only the initiated--who must be many for a decade to come--will
know quite how well it is done.

       *       *       *       *       *

Of the late Mr. NOEL ROSS, who, to the infinite loss of British journalism, died at the early
age of twenty-seven, Mr. Punch cannot trust himself to speak with the cold detachment of the
critic. He saw life with the clear eye of happy youth and set it down with the easy pen of
a ready writer. Coming from New Zealand, through the War, to England, his natural talents were
at once recognised, and he won a position for himself on the staff of The Times. In the leisure
moments spared from the service of the Old Lady of Printing House Square, he would crack a
jest, now and then, with the Old Sage of Bouverie Street. Mr. EDWIN ARNOLD now publishes a
collection of his writings under the title, Noel Ross and His Work, and Mr. Punch confines
himself to commending the volume to his readers.

       *       *       *       *       *