"Master Allan Stewart, friend to Captain James Stewart of Cardonall, by means of the Queen's
corrupted court, obtained the Abbey of Crossraguel. The said Earl thinking himself greater
than any king in those quarters, determined to have that whole benefice (as he hath divers
others) to pay at his pleasure; and because he could not find sic security as his insatiable
appetite required, this shift was devised. The said Mr Allan being in company with the Laird
of Bargany, (also a Kennedy,) was, by the Earl and his friends, enticed to leave the safeguard
which he had with the Laird, and come to make good cheer with the said Earl. The simplicity
of the imprudent man was suddenly abused; and so he passed his time with them certain days,
which he did in Maybole with Thomas Kennedie, uncle to the said Earl; after which the said
Mr Allan passed, with quiet company, to visit the place and bounds of Crossraguel, [his abbacy,]
of which the said Earl being surely advertised, determined to put in practice the tyranny which
long before he had conceived. And so, as king of the country, apprehended the said Mr Allan,
and carried him to the house of Denure, where for a season he was honourably treated, (if a
prisoner can think any entertainment pleasing;) but after that certain days were spent, and
that the Earl could not obtain the feus of Crossraguel according to his own appetite, he determined
to prove if a collation could work that which neither dinner nor supper could do for a long
time. And so the said Mr Allan was carried to a secret chamber: with him passed the honourable
Earl, his worshipful brother, and such as were appointed to be servants at that banquet. In
the chamber there was a grit iron chimlay, under it a fire; other grit provision was not seen.
The first course was,--'My Lord Abbot,' (said the Earl,) 'it will please you confess here,
that with your own consent you remain in my company, because ye durst not commit yourself to
the hands of others.' The Abbot answered, 'Would you, my lord, that I should make a manifest
lie for your pleasure? The truth is, my lord, it is against my will that I am here; neither
yet have I any pleasure in your company.' 'But ye shall remain with me, nevertheless, at this
time,' said the Earl. 'I am not able to resist your will and pleasure,' said the Abbot, 'in
this place.' 'Ye must then obey me,' said the Earl,--and with that were presented unto him
certain letters to subscribe, amongst which there was a five years' tack, and a nineteen years'
tack, and a charter of feu of all the lands (of Crossraguel), with all the clauses necessary
for the Earl to haste him to hell. For if adultery, sacrilege, oppression, barbarous cruelty,
and theft heaped upon theft, deserve hell, the great King of Carrick can no more escape hell
for ever, than the imprudent Abbot escaped the fire for a season as follows.

"After that the Earl spied repugnance, and saw that he could not come to his purpose by fair
means, he commanded his cooks to prepare the banquet: and so first they flayed the sheep, that
is, they took off the Abbot's cloathes even to his skin, and next they bound him to the chimney--his
legs to the one end, and his arms to the other; and so they began to beet [i.e. feed] the fire
sometimes to his buttocks, sometimes to his legs, sometimes to his shoulders and arms; and
that the roast might not burn, but that it might rest in soppe, they spared not flambing with
oil, (basting as a cook bastes roasted meat); Lord, look thou to sic cruelty! And that the
crying of the miserable man should not be heard, they dosed his mouth that the voice might
be stopped. It may be suspected that some partisan of the King's [Darnley's] murder was there.
In that torment they held the poor man, till that often he cried for God's sake to dispatch
him; for he had as meikle gold in his awin purse as would buy powder enough to shorten his
pain. The famous King of Carrick and his cooks perceiving the roast to be aneuch, commanded
it to be tane fra the fire, and the Earl himself began the grace in this manner:--'Benedicite,
Jesus Maria, you are the most obstinate man that ever I saw; gif I had known that ye had been
so stubborn, I would not for a thousand crowns have handled you so; I never did so to man before
you.' And yet he returned to the same practice within two days, and ceased not till that he
obtained his formost purpose, that is, that he had got all his pieces subscryvit alsweill as
ane half-roasted hand could do it. The Earl thinking himself sure enough so long as he had
the half-roasted Abbot in his own keeping, and yet being ashamed of his presence by reason
of his former cruelty, left the place of Denure in the hands of certain of his servants, and
the half-roasted Abbot to be kept there as prisoner. The Laird of Bargany, out of whose company
the said Abbot had been enticed, understanding, (not the extremity,) but the retaining of the
man, sent to the court, and raised letters of deliverance of the person of the man according
to the order, which being disobeyed, the said Earl for his contempt was denounced rebel, and
put to the horne. But yet hope was there none, neither to the afflicted to be delivered, neither
yet to the purchaser [i.e. procurer] of the letters to obtain any comfort thereby; for in that
time God was despised, and the lawful authority was contemned in Scotland, in hope of the sudden
return and regiment of that cruel murderer of her awin husband, of whose lords the said Earl
was called one; and yet, oftener than once, he was solemnly sworn to the King and to his Regent."

The Journalist then recites the complaint of the injured Allan Stewart, Commendator of Crossraguel,
to the Regent and Privy Council, averring his having been carried, partly by flattery, partly
by force, to the black vault of Denure, a strong fortalice, built on a rock overhanging the
Irish channel, where to execute leases and conveyances of the whole churches and parsonages
belonging to the Abbey of Crossraguel, which he utterly refused as an unreasonable demand,
and the more so that he had already conveyed them to John Stewart of Cardonah, by whose interest
he had been made Commendator. The complainant proceeds to state, that he was, after many menaces,
stript, bound, and his limbs exposed to fire in the manner already described, till, compelled
by excess of agony, he subscribed the charter and leases presented to him, of the contents
of which he was totally ignorant. A few days afterwards, being again required to execute a
ratification of these deeds before a notary and witnesses, and refusing to do so, he was once
more subjected to the same torture, until his agony was so excessive that he exclaimed, "Fye
on you, why do you not strike your whingers into me, or blow me up with a barrel of powder,
rather than torture me thus unmercifully?" upon which the Earl commanded Alexander Richard,
one of his attendants, to stop the patient's mouth with a napkin, which was done accordingly.
Thus he was once more compelled to submit to their tyranny. The petition concluded with stating,
that the Earl, under pretence of the deeds thus iniquitously obtained, had taken possession
of the whole place and living of Crossraguel, and enjoyed the profits thereof for three years.

