The controversy as to who really were the clans that figured in the barbarous conflict of the
Inch has been revived since the publication of the Fair Maid of Perth, and treated in particular
at great length by Mr. Robert Mackay of Thurso, in his very curious History of the House and
Clan of Mackay. Without pretending to say that he has settled any part of the question in the
affirmative, this gentleman certainly seems to have quite succeeded in proving that his own
worthy sept had no part in the transaction. The Mackays were in that age seated, as they have
since continued to be, in the extreme north of the island; and their chief at the time was
a personage of such importance, that his name and proper designation could not have been omitted
in the early narratives of the occurrence. He on one occasion brought four thousand of his
clan to the aid of the royal banner against the Lord of the Isles. This historian is of opinion
that the Clan Quhele of Wyntoun were the Camerons, who appear to have about that period been
often designated as Macewans, and to have gained much more recently the name of Cameron, i.e.
Wrynose, from a blemish in the physiognomy of some heroic chief of the line of Lochiel. This
view of the case is also adopted by Douglas in his Baronage, where he frequently mentions the
bitter feuds between Clan Chattan and Clan Kay, and identifies the latter sept in reference
to the events of 1396, with the Camerons. It is perhaps impossible to clear up thoroughly this
controversy, little interesting in itself, at least to readers on this side of Inverness. The
names, as we have them in Wyntoun, are "Clanwhewyl" and "Clachinya," the latter probably not
correctly transcribed. In the Scoti Chronicon they are "Clanquhele" and "Clankay. Hector Boece
writes Clanchattan" and "Clankay," in which he is followed by Leslie while Buchanan disdains
to disfigure his page with their Gaelic designations at all, and merely describes them as two
powerful races in the wild and lawless region beyond the Grampians. Out of this jumble what
Sassenach can pretend dare lucem? The name Clanwheill appears so late as 1594, in an Act of
James VI. Is it not possible that it may be, after all, a mere corruption of Clan Lochiel?

The reader may not be displeased to have Wyntoun's original rhymes [bk. ix. chap. xvii.]:

     A thousand and thre hundyr yere,
     Nynty and sex to mak all clere--
     Of thre scor wyld Scottis men,
     Thretty agane thretty then,
     In felny bolnit of auld fed,
     [Boiled with the cruelty of an old feud]
     As thare forelderis ware slane to dede.
     Tha thre score ware clannys twa,
     Clahynnhe Qwhewyl and Clachinyha;
     Of thir twa kynnis ware tha men,
     Thretty agane thretty then;
     And thare thai had than chiftanys twa,
     Scha Ferqwharis' son wes ane of tha,
     The tother Cristy Johnesone.
     A selcouth thing be tha was done.
     At Sanct Johnestone besid the Freris,
     All thai entrit in barreris
     Wyth bow and ax, knyf and swerd,
     To deil amang thaim thare last werd.
     Thare thai laid on that time sa fast,
     Quha had the ware thare at the last
     I will noucht say; hot quha best had,
     He wes but dout bathe muth and mad.
     Fifty or ma ware slane that day,
     Sua few wyth lif than past away.

The prior of Lochleven makes no mention either of the evasion of one of the Gaelic champions,
or of the gallantry of the Perth artisan, in offering to take a share in the conflict. Both
incidents, however, were introduced, no doubt from tradition, by the Continuator of Fordun
[Bower], whose narrative is in these words:

Anno Dom. millesimo trecentesimo nonagesimo sexto, magna pars borealis Scotiae, trans Alpes,
inquietata fuit per duos pestiferos Cateranos, et eorum sequaces, viz. Scheabeg et suos consanguinarios,
qui Clankay, et Cristi Jonsonem ac suos, qui Clanqwhele dicebantur; qui nullo pacto vel tractatu
pacificari poterant, nullaque arte regis vel gubernatoris poterant edomari, quoadusque nobilis
et industriosus Dominus David de Lindesay de Crawford, at Dominus Thomas comes Moraviae, diligentiam
et vires apposuerunt, ac inter partes sic tractaverunt, ut coram domino rege certo die convenirent
apud Perth, et alterutra pars eligeret de progenie sua triginta personas adversus triginta
de parte contraria, cum gladiis tantum, et arcubus et sagittis, absque deploidibus, vel armaturis
aliis, praeter bipennes; et sic congredientes finem liti ponerant, et terra pace potiretur.
Utrique igitur parti summe placuit contractus, et die lunae proximo ante festum Sancti Michaelis,
apud North insulam de Perth, coram rege et gubernatore et innumerabili multitudine comparentes,
conflictum acerrimum inierunt; ubi de sexaginta interfecti sunt omnes, excepto uno ex parte
Clankay et undecim exceptis ex parte altera. Hoc etiam ibi accidit, quod omnes in procinctu
belli constituti, unus eorum locum diffugii considerans, inter omnes in amnem elabitur, et
aquam de Thaya natando transgreditur; a millenis insequitur, sed nusquam apprehenditur. Stant
igitur partes attonitae, tanquam non ad conflictum progressuri, ob defectum evasi: noluit enim
pars integrum habens numerum sociorum consentire, ut unus de suis demeretur; nec potuit pars
altera quocumque pretio alterum ad supplendum vicem fugientis inducere. Stupent igitur omnes
haerentes, de damno fugitivi conquerentes. Et cum totum illud opus cessare putaretur, ecce
in medio prorupit unus stipulosus vernaculus, statura modicus, sed efferus, dicens: Ecce ego!
quis me conducet intrare cum operariis istis ad hunc ludum theatralem? Pro dimidia enim marca
ludum experiar, ultra hoc petens, ut si vivus de palaestra evasero, victum a quocumque vestrum
recipiam dum vixero: quia, sicut dicitur, "Majorem caritatem nemo habet, quam ut animam suam
ponat suis pro amicis." Quali mercede donabor, qui animam meam pro inimicis reipublicae et
regni pono? Quod petiit, a rege et diversis magnatibus conceditur. Cum hoc arcus ejus extenditur,
et primo sagittam in partem contrariam transmittit, et unum interficit. Confestim hinc inde
sagittae volitant, bipennes librant, gladios vibrant, alterutro certant, et veluti carnifices
boves in macello, sic inconsternate ad invicem se trucidant. Sed nec inter tantos repertus
est vel unus, qui, tanquam vecors ant timidus, sive post tergum alterius declinans, seipsum
a tanta caede praetendit excusare. Iste tamen tyro superveniens finaliter illaesus exivit;
et dehinc multo tempore Boreas quievit, nec ibidem fuit, ut supra, cateranorum excursus.

The scene is heightened with many florid additions by Boece and Leslie, and the contending
savages in Buchanan utter speeches after the most approved pattern of Livy.

The devotion of the young chief of Clan Quhele's foster father and foster brethren in the novel
is a trait of clannish fidelity, of which Highland story furnishes many examples. In the battle
of Inverkeithing, between the Royalists and Oliver Cromwell's troops, a foster father and seven
brave sons are known to have thus sacrificed themselves for Sir Hector Maclean of Duart; the
old man, whenever one of his boys fell, thrusting forward another to fill his place at the
right hand of the beloved chief, with the very words adopted in the novel, "Another for Hector!"

Nay, the feeling could outlive generations. The late much lamented General Stewart of Garth,
in his account of the battle of Killiecrankie, informs us that Lochiel was attended on the
field by the son of his foster brother.

"This faithful adherent followed him like his shadow, ready to assist him with his sword, or
cover him from the shot of the enemy. Suddenly the chief missed his friend from his side, and,
turning round to look what had become of him, saw him lying on his back with his breast pierced
by an arrow. He had hardly breath, before he expired, to tell Lochiel that, seeing an enemy,
a Highlander in General Mackay's army, aiming at him with a bow and arrow, he sprung behind
him, and thus sheltered him from instant death. This" observes the gallant David Stewart, "is
a species of duty not often practised, perhaps, by our aide de camps of the present day."--Sketches
of the Highlanders, vol. i. p. 65.

I have only to add, that the Second Series of Chronicles of the Canongate, with the chapter
introductory which precedes, appeared in May, 1828, and had a favourable reception.

ABBOTSFORD, Aug. 15, 1831.

CHAPTER I.

     "Behold the Tiber," the vain Roman cried,
     Viewing the ample Tay from Baiglie's side;
     But where's the Scot that would the vaunt repay,
     And hail the puny Tiber for the Tay?

     Anonymous.

Among all the provinces in Scotland, if an intelligent stranger were asked to describe the
most varied and the most beautiful, it is probable he would name the county of Perth. A native
also of any other district of Caledonia, though his partialities might lead him to prefer his
native county in the first instance, would certainly class that of Perth in the second, and
thus give its inhabitants a fair right to plead that, prejudice apart, Perthshire forms the
fairest portion of the Northern kingdom. It is long since Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, with that
excellent taste which characterises her writings, expressed her opinion that the most interesting
district of every country, and that which exhibits the varied beauties of natural scenery in
greatest perfection, is that where the mountains sink down upon the champaign, or more level
land. The most picturesque, if not the highest, hills are also to be found in the county of
Perth. The rivers find their way out of the mountainous region by the wildest leaps, and through
the most romantic passes connecting the Highlands with the Lowlands. Above, the vegetation
of a happier climate and soil is mingled with the magnificent characteristics of mountain scenery,
and woods, groves, and thickets in profusion clothe the base of the hills, ascend up the ravines,
and mingle with the precipices. It is in such favoured regions that the traveller finds what
the poet Gray, or some one else, has termed beauty lying in the lap of terror.

From the same advantage of situation, this favoured province presents a variety of the most
pleasing character. Its lakes, woods, and mountains may vie in beauty with any that the Highland
tour exhibits; while Perthshire contains, amidst this romantic scenery, and in some places
in connexion with it, many fertile and habitable tracts, which may vie with the richness of
merry England herself. The county has also been the scene of many remarkable exploits and events,
some of historical importance, others interesting to the poet and romancer, though recorded
in popular tradition alone. It was in these vales that the Saxons of the plain and the Gad
of the mountains had many a desperate and bloody encounter, in which it was frequently impossible
to decide the palm of victory between the mailed chivalry of the low country and the plaided
clans whom they opposed.

