They came to a rising ground more definitely marked by sarcophagi hewn from the solid rock,
and covered by lids of such weight and solidity that a number of them had never been disturbed.
Doubtless the dead within were lying as they had been left--but when, and by whom? What disclosures
there will be when at last the end is trumpeted in!

On further, but still connected with the once magnificent funeral site, they encountered a
wall many feet thick, and shortway beyond it, on the mountain's side, there were two arches
of a bridge of which all else had been broken down; and these two had never spanned anything
more substantial than the air. Strange structure for such a locality! Obviously the highway
which once ran over it had begun in the city the better to communicate with the cemetery through
which the party had just passed. So much was of easy understanding; but where was the other
terminus? At sight of the arches the master drew a long breath of relief. They were the friends
for whom he had been searching.

Nevertheless, without stopping, he led down into a hollow on all sides sheltered from view;
and there the unloading took place. The tools and bundles were thrown down by a rock, and preparations
made for the remainder of the night. The pallet was spread for the master. The basket gave
up its contents, and the party refreshed themselves and slept the sleep of the weary.

The secluded bivouac was kept the next day. Only the master went forth in the afternoon. Climbing
the mountain, he found the line in continuation of the bridge; a task the two arches serving
as a base made comparatively easy. He stood then upon a bench or terrace cumbered with rocks,
and so broad that few persons casually looking would have suspected it artificial. Facing fully
about from the piers, he walked forward following the terrace which at places was out of line,
and piled with debris tumbled from the mountain on the right hand side; in a few minutes that
silent guide turned with an easy curve and disappeared in what had yet the appearance hardly
distinguishable of an area wrenched with enormous labor from a low cliff of solid brown limestone.

The visitor scanned the place again and again; then he said aloud:

"No one has been here since"--

The sentence was left unfinished.

That he could thus identify the spot, and with such certainty pass upon it in relation to a
former period, proved he had been there before.

Rocks, earth, and bushes filled the space. Picking footway through, he examined the face of
the cliff then in front of him, lingering longest on the heap of breakage forming a bank over
the meeting line of area and hill.

"Yes," he repeated, this time with undisguised satisfaction, "no one has been here since"--

Again the sentence was unfinished.

He ascended the bank next, and removed some of the stones at the top. A carved line in low
relief on the face of the rock was directly exposed; seeing it he smiled, and replaced the
stones, and descending, went back to the terrace, and thence to the slaves in bivouac.

From one of the packages he had two iron lamps of old Roman style brought out, and supplied
with oil and wicks; then, as if everything necessary to his project was done, he took to the
pallet. Some goats had come to the place in his absence, but no living creature else.

After nightfall the master woke the slaves, and made final preparation for the venture upon
which he had come. The tools he gave to one man, the lamps to another, and the water-skin to
the negro. Then he led out of the hollow, and up the mountain to the terrace visited in the
afternoon; nor did he pause in the area mentioned as the abrupt terminus of the highway over
the skeleton piers. He climbed the bank of stones covering the foot of the cliff up to the
precise spot at which his reconnoissance had ended.

Directly the slaves were removing the bank at the top; not a difficult task since they had
only to roll the loose stones down a convenient grade. They worked industriously. At length--in
half an hour probably--an opening into the cliff was discovered. The cavity, small at first,
rapidly enlarged, until it gave assurance of a doorway of immense proportions. When the enlargement
sufficed for his admission, the master stayed the work, and passed in. The slaves followed.
The interior descent offered a grade corresponding with that of the bank outside--another bank,
in fact, of like composition, but more difficult to pass on account of the darkness.

With his foot the leading adventurer felt the way down to a floor; and when his assistants
came to him, he took from a pocket in his gown a small case filled with a chemical powder which
he poured at his feet; then he produced a flint and steel, and struck them together. Some sparks
dropped upon the powder. Instantly a flame arose and filled the place with a ruddy illumination.
Lighting the lamps by the flame, the party looked around them, the slaves with simple wonder.

They were in a vault--a burial vault of great antiquity. Either it was an imitation of like
chambers in Egypt, or they were imitations of it. The excavation had been done with chisels.
The walls were niched, giving them an appearance of panelling, and over each of the niches
there had been an inscription in raised letters, now mostly defaced. The floor was a confusion
of fragments knocked from sarcophagi, which, massive as they were, had been tilted, overturned,
uncovered, mutilated, and robbed. Useless to inquire whose the vandalism. It may have been
of Chaldeans of the time of Almanezor, or of the Greeks who marched with Alexander, or of Egyptians
who were seldom regardful of the dead of the peoples they overthrew as they were of their own,
or of Saracens, thrice conquerors along the Syrian coast, or of Christians. Few of the Crusaders
were like St. Louis.

But of all this the master took no notice. With him it was right that the vault should look
the wreck it was. Careless of inscriptions, indifferent to carving, his eyes ran rapidly along
the foot of the northern wall until they came to a sarcophagus of green marble. Thither he
proceeded. He laid his hand upon the half-turned lid, and observing that the back of the great
box--if such it may be termed--was against the wall, he said again:

"No one has been here since"--

And again the sentence was left unfinished.

Forthwith he became all energy. The negro brought the crowbar, and, by direction, set it under
the edge of the sarcophagus, which he held raised while the master blocked it at the bottom
with a stone chip. Another bite, and a larger chip was inserted. Good hold being thus had,
a vase was placed for fulcrum; after which, at every downward pressure of the iron, the ponderous
coffin swung round a little to the left. Slowly and with labor the movement was continued until
the space behind was uncovered.

By this time the lamps had become the dependencies for light. With his in hand, the master
stooped and inspected the exposed wall. Involuntarily the slaves bent forward and looked, but
saw nothing different from the general surface in that quarter. The master beckoned the negro,
and touching a stone not wider than his three fingers, but reddish in hue, and looking like
mere chinking lodged in an accidental crevice, signed him to strike it with the end of the
bar. Once--twice--the stone refused to stir; with the third blow it was driven in out of sight,
and, being followed vigorously, was heard to drop on the other side. The wall thereupon, to
the height of the sarcophagus and the width of a broad door, broke, and appeared about to tumble
down.

When the dust cleared away, there was a crevice unseen before, and wide enough to admit a hand.
The reader must remember there were masons in the old time who amused themselves applying their
mathematics to such puzzles. Here obviously the intention had been to screen an entrance to
an adjoining chamber, and the key to the design had been the sliver of red granite first displaced.

A little patient use then of hand and bar enabled the workman to take out the first large block
of the combination. That the master numbered with chalk, and had carefully set aside. A second
block was taken out, numbered, and set aside; finally the screen was demolished, and the way
stood open.

CHAPTER III

THE HIDDEN TREASURE

The slaves looked dubiously at the dusty aperture, which held out no invitation to them; the
master, however, drew his robe closer about him, and stooping went in, lamp in hand. They then
followed.

An ascending passage, low but of ample width, received them. It too had been chiselled from
the solid rock. The wheel marks of the cars used in the work were still on the floor. The walls
were bare but smoothly dressed. Altogether the interest here lay in expectation of what was
to come; and possibly it was that which made the countenance of the master look so grave and
absorbed. He certainly was not listening to the discordant echoes roused as he advanced.

The ascent was easy. Twenty-five or thirty steps brought them to the end of the passage.

They then entered a spacious chamber circular and domed. The light of the lamps was not enough
to redeem the ceiling from obscurity; yet the master led without pause to a sarcophagus standing
under the centre of the dome, and when he was come there everything else was forgotten by him.

The receptacle of the dead thus discovered had been hewn from the rock, and was of unusual
proportions. Standing broadside to the entrance, it was the height of an ordinary man, and
twice as long as high. The exterior had been polished smoothly as the material would allow;
otherwise it was of absolute plainness, looking not unlike a dark brown box. The lid was a
slab of the finest white marble carven into a perfect model of Solomon's Temple. While the
master surveyed the lid he was visibly affected. He passed the lamp over it slowly, letting
the light fall into the courts of the famous building; in like manner he illuminated the corridors,
and the tabernacle; and, as he did so, his features trembled and his eyes were suffused. He
walked around the exquisite representation several times, pausing now and then to blow away
the dust that had in places accumulated upon it. He noticed the effect of the transparent whiteness
in the chamber; so in its day the original had lit up the surrounding world. Undoubtedly the
model had peculiar hold upon his feelings.

But shaking the weakness off he after a while addressed himself to work. He had the negro thrust
the edge of the bar under the lid, and raise it gently. Having thoughtfully provided himself
in the antechamber with pieces of stone for the purpose, he placed one of them so as to hold
the vantage gained. Slowly, then, by working at the ends alternately, the immense slab was
turned upon its centre; slowly the hollow of the coffin was flooded with light; slowly, and
with seeming reluctance, it gave up its secrets.

In strong contrast to the plainness of the exterior, the interior of the sarcophagus was lined
with plates and panels of gold, on which there were cartoons chased and beaten in, representing
ships, and tall trees, doubtless cedars of Lebanon, and masons at work, and two men armed and
in royal robes greeting each other with clasped hands; and so beautiful were the cartoons that
the eccentric medalleur, Cellini, would have studied them long, if not enviously. Yet he who
now peered into the receptacle scarcely glanced at them.

On a stone chair seated was the mummy of a man with a crown upon its head, and over its body,
for the most part covering--the linen wrappings, was a robe of threads of gold in ample arrangement.
The hands rested on the lap; in one was a sceptre; the other held an inscribed silver tablet.
There were rings plain, and rings with jewels in setting, circling the fingers and thumbs;
the ears, ankles, even the great toes, were ornamented in like manner. At the feet a sword
of the fashion of a cimeter had been laid. The blade was in its scabbard, but the scabbard
was a mass of jewels, and the handle a flaming ruby. The belt was webbed with pearls and glistening
brilliants. Under the sword were the instruments sacred then and ever since to Master Masons--a
square, a gavel, a plummet, and an inscribing compass.

The man had been a king--so much the first glance proclaimed. With him, as with his royal brethren
from the tombs along the Nile, death had asserted itself triumphantly over the embalmer. The
cheeks were shrivelled and mouldy; across the forehead the skin was drawn tight; the temples
were hollows rimmed abruptly with the frontal bones; the eyes, pits partially filled with dried
ointments of a bituminous color. The monarch had yielded his life in its full ripeness, for
the white hair and beard still adhered in stiffened plaits to the skull, cheeks, and chin.
The nose alone was natural; it stood up thin and hooked, like the beak of an eagle.

At sight of the figure thus caparisoned and maintaining its seat in an attitude of calm composure
the slaves drew back startled. The negro dropped his iron bar, making the chamber ring with
a dissonant clangor.

Around the mummy in careful arrangement were vessels heaped with coins and pearls and precious
stones, cut and ready for the goldsmith. Indeed, the whole inner space of the sarcophagus was
set with basins and urns, each in itself a work of high art; and if their contents were to
be judged by what appeared overflowing them, they all held precious stones of every variety.
The corners had been draped with cloths of gold and cloths embroidered with pearls, some of
which were now falling to pieces of their own weight.

We know that kings and queens are but men and women subject to the same passions of common
people; that they are generous or sordid according to their natures; that there have been misers
amongst them; but this one--did he imagine he could carry his amassments with him out of the
world? Had he so loved the gems in his life as to dream he could illumine his tomb with them?
If so, O royal idiot!

The master, when an opening had been made sufficiently wide by turning the lid upon the edge
of the sarcophagus, took off his sandals, gave a foot to one of his slaves, and swung himself
into the interior. The lamp was then given him, and he surveyed the wealth and splendor as
the king might never again. And as the king in his day had said with exultation, Lo! it is
all mine, the intruder now asserted title.

Unable, had he so wished, to carry the whole collection off, he looked around upon this and
upon that, determining where to begin. Conscious he had nothing to fear, and least of all from
the owner in the chair, he was slow and deliberate. From his robe he drew a number of bags
of coarse hempen cloth, and a broad white napkin. The latter he spread upon the floor, first
removing several of the urns to obtain space; then he emptied one of the vessels upon it, and
from the sparkling and varicolored heap before him proceeded to make selection.

His judgment was excellent, sure and swift. Not seldom he put the large stones aside, giving
preference to color and lustre. Those chosen he dropped into a bag. When the lot was gone through,
he returned the rejected to the vessel, placing it back exactly in its place. Then he betook
himself to another of the vessels, and then another, until, in course of a couple of hours,
he had made choice from the collection, and filled nine bags, and tied them securely.

Greatly relieved, he arose, rubbed the benumbed joints of his limbs awhile, then passed the
packages out to the slaves. The occupation had been wearisome and tensive; but it was finished,
and he would now retire. He lingered to give a last look at the interior, muttering the sentence
again, and leaving it unfinished as before:

"No one has been here since"--

From the face of the king, his eyes fell to the silver tablet in the nerveless hand. Moving
close, and holding the lamp in convenient position, he knelt and read the inscription.

I.

"There is but one God, and He was from the beginning, and will be without end.

II.

"In my lifetime, I prepared this vault and tomb to receive my body, and keep it safely; yet
it may be visited, for the earth and sea are always giving up their secrets.

III.

"Therefore, O Stranger, first to find me, know thou!

"That in all my days I kept intercourse with Solomon, King of the Jews, wisest of men, and
the richest and greatest. As is known, he set about building a house to his Lord God, resolved
that there should be nothing like it in the world, nothing so spacious, so enriched, so perfect
in proportions, so in all things becoming the glory of his God. In sympathy with him I gave
him of the skill of my people, workers in brass, and silver, and gold, and products of the
quarries: and in their ships my sailors brought him the yield of mines from the ends of the
earth. At last the house was finished; then he sent me the model of the house, and the coins,
and cloths of gold and pearl, and the precious stones, and the vessels holding them, and the
other things of value here. Ad if, O Stranger, thou dost wonder at the greatness of the gift,
know thou that it was but a small part of what remained unto him of like kind, for he was master
of the earth, and of everything belonging to it which might be of service to him, even the
elements and their subtleties.

IV.

"Nor think, O Stranger, that I have taken the wealth into the tomb with me, imagining it can
serve me in the next life. I store it here because I love him who gave it to me, and am jealous
of his love; and that is all.

V.

"So thou wilt use the wealth in ways pleasing in the sight of the Lord God of Solomon, my royal
friend, take thou of it in welcome. There is no God but his God!

"Thus say I--HIRAM, KING OF TYRE."

"Rest thou thy soul, O wisest of pagan kings," said the master, rising. "Being the first to
find thee here, and basing my title to thy wealth on that circumstance, I will use it in a
way pleasing in the sight of the Lord God of Solomon. Verily, verily, there is no God but his God!"

This, then, was the business that brought the man to the tomb of the king whose glory was to
have been the friend of Solomon. Pondering the idea, we begin to realize how vast the latter's
fame was; and it ceases to be matter of wonder that his contemporaries, even the most royal,
could have been jealous of his love.

Not only have we the man's business, but it is finished; and judging from the satisfaction
discernible on his face as he raised the lamp and turned to depart, the result must have been
according to his best hope. He took off his robe, and tossed it to his slaves; then he laid
a hand upon the edge of the sarcophagus preparatory to climbing out. At the moment, while giving
a last look about him, an emerald, smoothly cut, and of great size, larger indeed than a full-grown
pomegranate, caught his eyes in its place loose upon the floor. He turned back, and taking
it up, examined it carefully; while thus engaged his glance dropped to the sword almost at
his feet. The sparkle of the brilliants, and the fire-flame of the great ruby in the grip,
drew him irresistibly, and he stood considering.

Directly he spoke in a low voice:

"No one has been here since"--

