In order to a perfect revelation of God to man it was necessary that the entire page, the "background"
as well as the "foreground," or the human as well as the divine, should be truth, and in every
case, all the truth that was necessary to enable man to realize and understand the whys and
wherefores of the divine procedure; and also to call out in word or action the Divine Being
in all his relations to the conduct of the children of men. Such a record is found in the Bible,
given to us by men who were impelled and borne by the Holy Spirit when they wrote and spoke.
But it was not necessary that anything upon the dark human "background" of this picture should
have its origin with God; it was only necessary that, having originated with man, men or demons,
it should be put to record just as it was in all its heinousness and wickedness in order that
we might see the true character of God in his relations to it. If a wise physician should undertake
to make himself known to the world he would not give us a history of all he did with every
patient, and at the same time fail to give us just so much of the true history of each patient
as would be necessary to enable us to understand him in all that he did, for both stand or
fall together. So it is in the Bible revelation of God to man. Take away the "background" of
the picture, and the picture itself is destroyed. That which skeptics in their ignorance are
always trying to ridicule is just as essential to a revelation of God in his justice, purity,
love and power as the word of God himself. That is to say, the revelation has an objective
as well as a subjective side. The subjective is God in his attributes, and the objective is
man in his works. It was the objective that drew out the subjective, because all was done for
the objective. Take either side away and the revelation ceases to exist. On the subjective
side all is of God in its origin, is charged up to him, being spoken by him, and in his name,
or done by him, or by his authority. The indices to this great truth are in these or similar
phrases, "Hear, O, Israel, thus saith the Lord, thy God," "Thus saith the Lord," "And the Lord
said," "The Lord spake, saying," "The Lord said unto me," "The word of the Lord came unto me,"
"The Lord commanded," "The burthen of the word of the Lord to," "The Lord answered, saying."
We are not authorized to charge, as many through their ignorance or wickedness have done, all
that we read about in the Bible to God as the author. The words and doings of wicked men and
demons are truthfully recorded there, and they are often licentious and blasphemous. The words
and doings of good men and angels are there, and the words and doings of God are there. We
are authorized to charge to God's account that only which is spoken in his name, or by his
instructions, along with that which was done by him, or by his authority, or approved by him.
When we get outside of these common-sense thoughts in our interpretations of Bible history
we are acting upon our own responsibility, and are liable to be found doing violence to the
divine will. If we contradict the record we call in question the veracity of the spirit which
controlled the writer, whether the statement relates to God, man or demons. But this statement
does not apply to mistranslations, for it is one thing to contradict an uninspired translator,
and another altogether to contradict the statement of one controlled by the spirit of God.
We fearlessly assert that the Bible is just the book that common-sense and reason demands that
it should be in order to contain a revelation of God to man. We would as soon attempt to destroy
the divine and lovely side, as change its character, so far as to take from its pages its record
of wickedness, misery and woe, for it amounts to the same thing. One more question of importance
bearing on this subject demands our attention, and that is the question of miracles. Men have,
without any authority from the Bible, treated all miracles as violations of natural law. But
it would be well for us to determine the extent of our knowledge of natural laws before we
thus dogmatize. That which we call miracle may be in perfect harmony with law that lies just
beyond our knowledge. Omniscience seems to be a necessary qualification for such theorizing
as asserts that miracles are violations of the laws of nature. Omnipotence is an essential
attribute of the Ruler of the universe. But in order to its existence, the Infinite one must
be above the laws which he has established, able to take hold of those laws and handle them
as he sees proper, otherwise he is not all-powerful. On the simple plane of nature we get lost.
Who can account for "Partheno Genesis," or generation without any known sexual organs, which
obtains in the animal kingdom. "The spirit of God moved upon," "brooded over" the face of the
great deep and life filled the waters. "The Holy Spirit overshadowed the Virgin" and the Nazarene
was begotten. The original expresses the same idea in both cases. Scientists who are radical
materialists admit this wonderful feat in the animal kingdom as a natural affair, and yet,
without any authority from the Bible, speak of the birth of Christ as the result of "Miraculous
conception," in the sense of a violation of natural law. What natural law is violated in "Partheno
Genesis?" With me it is allowable that a thousand more just such beings might be, and if necessary
to the accomplishment of the great purposes of God, would be produced under the same circumstances
and by the same instrumentalities. The feature of the question of miracles which bears on the
subject of a divine revelation must now be considered. It is this, would a book containing
such a record as that which we have in the Bible, except the record of miracles, reveal God
in his attributes to our world? We lay it down as a correct proposition that we must have creative
and life-giving power manifested in order to a revelation of God.

If the Bible contained no record of the exercise of powers above the human it would reveal
only a human God, which would be no God; and common sense would declare, "It is a book treating
of, and presenting man in his attributes." Those facts upon its pages which are in the power
of God alone confirm, that is, make sure, the revelation of God to man. Without this feature
of the book common sense would have at least one good excuse for rejecting its claims. The
Master recognizes this fact in the saying, "If I do not the works of my Father believe me not,
but if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works, that ye may know and believe that
the Father is in me and I in him." Here we have the fact of "God revealed in the flesh," evinced
by the works which the Savior performed. The foundation of faith, or the obligation to believe,
is identified with those works. They were a greater evidence of his divinity than the words
of any prophet, although those words were the words of the Divine Spirit. "If I had not done
among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin; their rejection of my
claims would be justifiable but for the fact that my divinity is demonstrated in the works
which I do." The same thought accompanies the introduction of the gospel of Jesus Christ in
the preaching of the Apostles. Paul said, "Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but in
power, and in the Holy Spirit." "They went everywhere preaching the word; the Lord working
with them and confirming the word with signs following." The confirmation was not in the simple
fact that miracles were wrought, but in their character. The miracles of Christ were not in
the power of false prophets, magicians, or demons. They were in the power of God. The presence
of God was manifested in his miracles.

The question is often asked, "Why were they not continued throughout the Christian dispensation?"
Answer: If they had been continued, they would have lost all their power over the mind by becoming
ordinary, and then they would cease to have any bearing whatever in the establishment of a
divine proposition. It was not necessary to continue them beyond the witnesses whose testimony
closed up the revelation of God. "A covenant once confirmed no man disannulleth or addeth thereto."
A continual repetition of the evidence of confirmation was not necessary in order to give faith
in a communication already confirmed and left in a historic age for the faith of the world.
It is true of sense that the continual sensuous experience causes the object experienced to
lose its controlling power, but the opposite is true of faith. So he who knew best what man's
nature required ordained that the just should walk by faith and not by sense. And to this end
he confirmed "once" the revelation of himself and his will, and left it in the world as his
witness to produce faith. Is it not a dangerous thing to make God a liar? Is it not a great
insult? All unbelievers are thus guilty before God. Our Savior did not speak unadvisedly when
he said: "He that believeth not shall be condemned."

"Life and immortality are brought to light through the Gospel." Is it not strange that dying
men will reject the motive of life? Jesus "came to his own and his own received him not, but
as many as received him to them gave he power to become the sons of God." Will we possess him
through faith and live, or shall we make God a liar, die in our sins, be condemned and banished
from the presence of God and the glory of his power?

       *       *       *       *       *

The practice of dating from the Christian era was first introduced about the year 527, by Dionisius,
surnamed "Exiguus," but better known as Deny's le Petit, a monk of Scythia and a Roman abbot.
It was not introduced into Italy until the sixth century. It was first used in France in the
seventh century; it was universally established in France in the eighth century. It was used
in England in 680; it was in general use in the eighth century. The years of the Christian
era are described in ancient documents as the years "of Grace," of "the Incarnation," of "our
Lord," of "the Nativity," etc.--Chambers.

       *       *       *       *       *

The cardinal virtues are Justice, Prudence, Temperance and Fortitude. Cardinal signifies, in
a general sense, principal or pre-eminent. It comes from the Latin word cardo, a hinge. Take
cardinal things away from any science and its foundation is gone. Everything in science turns
upon cardinal things, as the word cardo signifies.

A FUNERAL ORATION.

BY COL. G. DE VEVEU.

     Of the future, the hereafter, we are as ignorant as we are of the
     infinite conditions through which we have passed during the
     eternity which has preceded our brief present existences. If we
     could know the history of our past we might get a glimpse of our
     future; but no message ever reached man from beyond the grave. The
     past is a mere sealed book, the future is a blank. No records are
     left to us save those written in the rocks and the evidences
     brought before our senses; they tell their own stories. Whence came
     we? Whither are we tending? Ah! who can tell? Some profess to know,
     but they know not. Where have last summer's roses gone? What will
     become of yon dry leaf, torn from its parent stem by this wintry
     blast? Like us they disappear and are merged into the ocean of
     matter from which they are evolved, ready to be re-combined into
     new forms of beauty; for although individual existences perish,
     matter is imperishable; having had no birth it will have no death.
     Like time and space, it is infinite and eternal. Brought forth into
     this world without being consulted, we are hurried out of it
     without our consent. Like that leaf, which was the hope of spring,
     the pride and glory of summer, we are rudely torn away, the sport
     of destiny, to return to the elements of nature from which we
     spring--dust to dust. The past is beyond recall; the future is
     veiled in obscurity and in doubt; the present alone is ours.

The above is from the Boston Investigator. It has gone the rounds of the press, and it is regarded
as a very fine literary production. But all is not gold that glitters. This oration was delivered
as a tribute of respect to the memory of Mrs. Boulay. It is a curiosity when viewed from the
speaker's standpoint. The man was evidently broken down in the presence of death. I have sometimes
thought it would be well for the unbelievers to adopt the custom of delivering funeral sermons,
for it is certain, from all that is known of man, that no strong defense of unbelief, nor even
a respectable presentation of it, is made in the presence of death. When an unbeliever speaks
at his brother's grave of the "rustling of wings," I intuitively think of the old trite saying,
"It is but one step from the sublime to the ridiculous." That step is from the "rustling of
wings" to "infidelity." Col. G. Veveu, in the above oration, sticks close to his unbelief,
but smashes his science. If our incredulous friends will continue to respect the dead enough
to remember them with an oration at their graves, I think it will be but a short time till
the people all over the country will see the hollow, empty, good-for-nothing character of unbelief.

Mr. Veveu says, "Although individual existences perish, matter is imperishable; having had
no birth (italics mine) it will have no death." A wonderful discovery! Matter had no birth;
organisms are born. They existed, however, prior to their birth. The matter that composed them
existed before it entered into organic forms. The living element, spirit, or whatever you please
to name it, took hold of the elements of matter and built the organism. The life existed before
the organism. Why should it perish with it? Matter exists before birth and after death. Spirit
also exists before birth and after death. Why affirm the eternity of matter and deny the eternity
of spirit? These unbelievers, being materialists, advocate the one substance theory. Yet they
talk about the "unknown" which they know, and know it to be the "invisible," the "wonderful,"
the life, and the cause, at least, of all intelligence and order. They are compelled to deify
this. Does this pass out of being with death? Does matter pass out of being with death? No,
nothing passes out of being except the organic form. The body returns to the dust, as it was,
and the spirit to God who gave it. Next, we have this statement with reference to matter, "Like
time and space, it is infinite and eternal." Why? The answer is, because it can not be annihilated;
death has simply destroyed an organization, changed the condition of matter, the matter of
the organism, and changed the relations of the intelligent, living spirit; neither matter nor
spirit ceases to be. If matter is therefore infinite and eternal, spirit is therefore infinite
and eternal. The sooner scientists learn the fact that birth simply brings us into certain
relations, and death takes us out of those relations, the better it will be for all who are
concerned in this interesting subject.

The next item in that eloquent effusion is that man is "like the leaf," the mere "sport of
destiny," returning in his "autumn" "to the elements of nature from which he sprang: dust to dust."

This orator asks the questions, "Whence came we?" "Whither are we tending?" "Who can tell?"
To them he gives two answers. First, he says, "Some profess to know, but they know not." "The
past is a mere sealed book." "The future is a blank." Conclusion, "The future is a mere sealed
book." The man is lost in the unbeliever's "narrow vale lying between two cold, bleak, barren
eternities," viz: life. Lost (?) in the narrow vale. Yes! He knows nothing about his origin.
He knows nothing about his destiny. So he says, and we have no right to contradict him. He
is lost! But here he is again, listen!

How he contradicts himself! But we must make all due allowances. He is in the presence of death.
He says, "The past is beyond recall; the future is veiled in obscurity and in doubt; the present
alone is ours." Here confusion is confounded; but let us ever remember that this was a funeral
occasion, and the friends of the deceased were present, and this man Veveu was there, for the
purpose, ostensibly, of giving a small amount of consolation to bereaved and broken hearts.
Oh, how barren, how cold, how gloomy and God-dishonoring the consolation given! Those empty
vessels of ours, hearts "endowed with inexhaustible hope," must turn away from the grave (?)
empty still. No, not necessarily. God has provided a fountain. Go to it and fill your vessels.
Let us not be too severe upon the man. There he stands amid bleeding hearts, and the open tomb
just before him. Show pity, Lord! The man says, "No message ever reached man from beyond the
grave." How very singular it is that many men repudiating God make a god of themselves. What
kind of a being must I be to know that "no message ever reached man from beyond the grave?"
How much must I know? Away back yonder in the past, in that "mere sealed book," is a grand
and glorious message from beyond the grave. But to our friend it is a "sealed book."

What becomes of evolution?

What becomes of natural selection?

What becomes of the doctrine of the survival of the fittest?

THE MOTIVE THAT LED MEN TO ADOPT DARWINISM.

Before presenting the motive that led some of the great minds in unbelief to advocate the Darwinian
theory of creation, it will not be amiss to remind the reader of the fact that the author of
the "Vestiges of Creation" presented the evolution theory about twenty years before Mr. Darwin
excited the public mind with the "hypothesis." Men who read the "Vestiges" looked upon the
assumption as a speculation, but refused its adoption until Mr. Darwin, for the purpose of
setting aside the idea of separate creations of species, improved so far upon the "Vestiges
of Creation" as to repudiate design in nature. Having done this, many of the leading spirits
in skepticism, with a few great minds in unbelief, at once accepted the wild speculation. Their
motive may be seen in the following quotations: "The eye was not made for the purpose of seeing,
or the ear for the purpose of hearing. Organisms, according to Darwin, are like grape-shot,
of which one hits something and the rest fall wide." (Lay sermons, p. 331.) According to the
above it appears that Huxley regarded the evolution of species, as advocated by Darwin, as
identical with the old, effete idea that circumstances have determined everything. This is
the same idea. Haeckel says, "The grand difficulty in the way of the mechanical theory was
the occurrence of innumerable organisms, apparently, at least, indicative of design." He further
says, "Some who could not believe in a creative and controlling mind, to get over the difficulty
of apparent design, adopted the idea of a metaphysical ghost called vitality." This author
confounds law with cause or agent. "Law is nothing without an agent to operate by it." Law
is simply a rule of action. According to this statement every man is left to one of three conclusions,
viz:

1. That man came up immediately as man from the inorganic, or from the slime of the Nile, or
from some other slimy place. Or,

2. That man was evolved from the lowest forms of life, according to Darwinism. Or,

3. That man was created by the divine hand, according to Christian belief.

Reader, which will you accept. Will you dethrone the Creator?

Choose you this day between the Creator and the slime of the sea with the sun's rays. What
does Darwin know about the origin of life and mind? These are problems for the distant future,
if they are ever to be solved by man."--Descent of Man, p. 66. This is an open confession;
in it all is given up. This brings us to the same standard of piety. Then why the opposition?

Strauss denied a personal God. (Capitals mine.) Reader, the religion of Jesus Christ will save
you from the terrible mental condition which is legitimate from a denial of God and his Christ.
Will you accept it and experience the fact?

SHALL WE ABANDON OUR RELIGION?

There is no counterfeit without a genuine. Even a myth is related to something, near or remote,
to which it bears some resemblance. There is nothing of great value that is not counterfeited.
There is nothing that is not abused. Civil government has been wonderfully abused; in this
respect it has fared no better than religion. There are many forms of civil government. There
are many forms of religion. Let us ever seek the best form in each.

We are often pointed to the blood that has been shed in religious wars; but do unbelievers
value civil government less because of the blood which they have cost? No. That blood speaks
better things. May we not estimate civil government and religion both by the blood they have cost?

Unbelievers are very industrious in keeping before us the disagreements among Protestants.
They say, Look! they can't agree among themselves. Well, is there any better agreement among
politicians, or in civil governments? Is there any agreement among unbelievers which would
serve as a model for us poor souls to imitate? I confess that the way is open for improvement
among Protestants in this respect, but is it not just as open for a similar improvement among
unbelievers in the scientific field of thought? There we find Atheists, Pantheists, Deists,
Polytheists and Theists. In their history will be found an immense mass of contradictory opinions.

Man is imperfect in many of his attainments. A few men are more perfect than others, but all
are liable to mistakes. Errors are found in all the histories of humanity; shall we therefore
discard science and civil government? or shall we turn misanthropists? No; we will do neither.
We are in a progressive age. We were capacitated for progression. We would not be men without
this capacity. Let us ever remember that man is, after all his mistakes, the noblest creature
of God, having God-like attributes. Do you doubt this? Then tell us why it is that a falsehood
is always detestible to the mind. Why do men strenuously avoid contradictory propositions?
The God-like in man is the great secret of his progression. He is a progressive being. Shall
we on this account condemn all that in which man has and does progress? Shall we condemn Christianity
on account of man's failures? Shall we discourage his honest efforts by keeping those failures
always before him? Have men made no mistakes in science? Shall we repudiate on account of mistakes?
Then there will be no end to repudiations. Let us remember and talk of the many mistakes that
have been made in both science and religion, like the man "who visits the shadows in the deep
ravines, in order that he may more fully realize the fact that the sun shines;" that is to
say, let us talk of old, effete dogmas in science and in religion only to more fully realize
the fact that the sunlight of truth is shining. Yes! Man has progressed. "Science and religion
both stand true to their God." Man alone deviates. How often do we hear men say, "Science is
progressive?" Scientific truth is always the same. Man is not always the same. Shall we keep
his many deviations from truth and principle before him in order to cause greater deviations?
Who will "deliver" the unbelievers of our country "from this dead body?" It contains all the
errors of the ages. Their name is "legion." Among them we behold laws in the early history
of our own country that to-day would shock the common sense of our country. Examine the old
"Blue Laws of Connecticut." Among the errors of the past we find the "rack," the "thumb-screw,"
the "inquisition"--I was going to add the cross, but I recollect that unbelievers do not put
that in their list. They do not sympathize with Christ, so they leave the cross out; in fact
they do not like to talk about it. "It is their stumbling stone; the rock of their offense."
I am tempted to say more about the errors of scientists in the bygone, but I must forbear;
for in so doing I would ape the unbelievers. I have no great love for apes. So far as old,
effete, erroneous opinions and faiths are concerned, with the old instruments of torture belonging
to the shadows of the dark ages, we should say, disturb not the dead.

A man making his appearance among us as a lecturer, condemning all the sciences, presenting
to the public mind the hundred and one old false ideas known in the history of scientific investigation,
would be hissed out of literary circles.

An orator coming before the American people as a speaker, loaded with all the imperfections
of our government, with its errors in legislation, its wicked and corrupt men accepting bribes,
its mistakes on the fields of battle, resulting in great loss of life, as an open enemy to
our country, breathing out treason, would subject himself to the anathemas of our government.
The course pursued by unbelievers against the religion of Jesus Christ is without a parallel
in the fields of science, civil governments and morals, yet the way is equally open in all
those directions for a similar effort.

What is the value of the religion of Christ? What is the estimate placed upon it by the best
minds of America? Andrew Jackson said, in his last hours, "That book, sir," pointing to the
Bible, "is the rock on which our republic rests."

John Adams said, "The Bible is the best book in the world."

Henry Clay said, "I always have had, and always shall have, a profound regard for Christianity,
the religion of my fathers, and for its rites, its usages and observances."

U. S. Grant said, "Hold fast to the Bible as the sheet anchor of our liberties; write its precepts
on your hearts, and practice them in your lives. To the influence of this book we are indebted
for the progress made in true civilization, and to this we must look as our guide in the future."

General George Washington said, "It is impossible to govern the world without God. He must
be worse than an infidel that lacks faith, and more than wicked that has not gratitude enough
to acknowledge his obligation."

THE DOMAIN OR PROVINCE OF SCIENCE.

The Greeks used the word "epistasin" to express the idea that we express by the word science.
Our word means certain knowledge. Theirs was understood to mean "coming to a stand," from "epi,"
upon, and "staseo," to stand. Science takes account of phenomenon and seeks its law. When you
apprehend a phenomenon and discover its law you have accomplished all that the term indicates,
even though you fail to comprehend the whys and wherefores of the law. "Certain knowledge,"
this phrase indicates limitation. All that it demands is that you know that which you profess
to know. It therefore follows that the word "science" is equally applicable to the comprehensible
and incomprehensible. The word is from "scio," I know. As men's knowledge, in the present state,
at least, is limited, so science, as presented by man, is also limited; but, as men are progressive
beings, science and the sciences may increase, adding more and more of truth. There are, however,
shores beyond which science will never carry us, but on the contrary will leave us to settle
down, to rest forever in content or discontent, just as we choose.

The modern hypothesis of materialistic unbelievers is that there is but one substance in the
universe, and that is matter. If this be so, then all knowledge pertains to matter, and when
you have reasoned yourself to the last element known, or knowable, in physical analysis, which
will be the point of departure as well as your ultimate truth behind which you can not go,
then, of course, you are where you must rest satisfied or dissatisfied; you have come to the
Rubicon beyond which you will never pass. The mere physicist finds, as a legitimate result
of his hypothesis of but one substance, his rest in the ultimate of eternal matter and blind
force. The Christian, recognizing spiritual substance also, finds his ultimate or resting place
in God, who is the last element in vital and mental analysis, and also the Christian's starting
point in his inductive reasonings. We realize that scientific knowledge is profitable, even
in the field of matter, but if we refuse to science any domain above matter she will lead us
to the dust of the grave, there to forsake us forever amid its gloom and sorrow. Here Colonel
Ingersoll's "night birds"--for angels he has no use--move with "rustling of wings." When such
men reason themselves back to the germ cells and sperm cells, and stand there upon the last
element in the analysis of the human body, they are not able to take another step until they
acknowledge the existence of spiritual substance as matters master, which ever was, and is
above matter, which takes hold of matter and builds germ cells and sperm cells and inhabits
them, as the inherent fore which superintends the building, differentiating the species, and
determining the sex.

Ask the unbeliever, the materialist, what this vital principle is, and he answers: "It is the
all-pervading force that is modified by the organic structure." That is, in his philosophy,
the "vital force is produced by the organism," and the "organism is produced by the vital principle?"
So, being at the last limit of the physical analysis of the organic being, he is involved in
a contradiction, while the Christian who believes in a spiritual substance refers all to spirit,
and claims a continuation of his identity as an intelligent spirit, resting in his ultimate
or starting point, viz: God. Do you say I am lost in God? Well, to be thus lost in God is to
be saved from corruption and from the dust of the grave; but to be lost in the dust of the
grave and in the ceaseless changes of matter is to be lost to God and to spiritual being. Let
me be with God rather than lost amid the dark waves of oblivion.

