A poor Hamal (porter) brought to the Pasha of Stamboul his savings, consisting of a small canvas
bag of medjidies (Turkish silver dollars), to be kept for him, while he was absent on a visit
to his home. The Pasha, being a kind-hearted man, consented, and after sealing the bag, called
his steward, instructing him to keep it till the owner called for it. The steward gave the
man a receipt, to the effect that he had received a sealed bag containing money.

When the poor man returned, he went to the Pasha and received his bag of money. On reaching
his room he opened the bag, and to his horror found that it contained, instead of the medjidies
he had put in it, copper piasters, which are about the same size as medjidies. The poor Hamal
was miserable, his hard-earned savings gone.

He at last gathered courage to go and put his case before the Pasha. He took the bag of piasters,
and with trembling voice and faltering heart he assured the Pasha that though he had received
his bag apparently intact, on opening it he found that it contained copper piasters and not
the medjidies he had put in it. The Pasha took the bag, examined it closely, and after some
time noticed a part that had apparently been darned by a master-hand. The Pasha told the Hamal
to go away and come back in a week; in the meantime he would see what he could do for him.
The grateful man departed, uttering prayers for the life and prosperity of his Excellency.

The next morning after the Pasha had said his prayers kneeling on a most magnificent and expensive
rug, he took a knife and cut a long rent in it. He then left his Konak without saying a word
to any one. In the evening when he returned he found that the rent had been so well repaired
that it was with difficulty that he discovered where it had been. Calling his steward, he demanded
who had repaired his prayer rug. The steward told the Pasha that he thought the rug had been
cut by accident by some of the servants, so he had sent to the Bazaar for the darner, Mustapha,
and had it mended, the steward, by way of apology, adding that it was very well done.

"Send for Mustapha immediately," said the Pasha, "and when he comes bring him to my room."

When Mustapha arrived, the Pasha asked him if he had repaired the rug. Mustapha at once replied
that he had mended it that very morning.

"It is indeed well done," said the Pasha; "much better than the darn you made in that canvas bag."

Mustapha agreed, saying that it was very difficult to mend the bag as it was full of copper
piasters. On hearing this, the Pasha gave him a backsheesh (present) and told him to retire.
The Pasha then called his steward, and not only compelled him to pay the Hamal his money, but
discharged him from his service, in which he had been engaged for many years.

THE GOOSE, THE EYE, THE DAUGHTER, AND THE ARM

A Turk decided to have a feast, so he killed and stuffed a goose and took it to the baker to
be roasted. The Cadi of the village happened to pass by the oven as the baker was basting the
goose, and was attracted by the pleasant and appetizing odor. Approaching the baker, the Cadi
said it was a fine goose; that the smell of it made him quite hungry, and suggested that he
had better send it to his house. The baker expostulated, saying: "I cannot; it does not belong
to me."

The Cadi assured him that was no difficulty. "You tell Ahmet, the owner of the goose, that
it flew away."

"Impossible!" said the baker. "How can a roasted goose fly away? Ahmet will only laugh at me,
your Worship, and I will be cast into prison."

"Am I not a Judge?" said the Cadi, "fear nothing."

At this the baker consented to send the goose to the Cadi's house. When Ahmet came for his
goose the baker said: "Friend, thy goose has flown."

"Flown?" said Ahmet, "what lies! Am I thy grandfather's grandchild that thou shouldst laugh
in my beard?"

Seizing one of the baker's large shovels, he lifted it to strike him, but, as fate would have
it, the handle put out the eye of the baker's boy, and Ahmet, frightened at what he had done,
ran off, closely followed by the baker and his boy, the latter crying: "My eye!"

In his hurry Ahmet knocked over a child, killing it, and the father of the child joined in
the chase, calling out: "My daughter!"

Ahmet, well-nigh distracted, rushed into a mosque and up a minaret. To escape his pursuers
he leaped from the parapet, and fell upon a vender who was passing by, breaking his arm. The
vender also began pursuing him, calling out: "My arm!"

Ahmet was finally caught and brought before the Cadi, who no doubt was feeling contented with
the world, having just enjoyed the delicious goose.

The Cadi heard each of the cases brought against Ahmet, who in turn told his case truthfully
as it had happened.

"A complicated matter," said the Cadi. "All these misfortunes come from the flight of the goose,
and I must refer to the book of the law to give just judgment."

Taking down a ponderous manuscript volume, the Cadi turned to Ahmet and asked him what number
egg the goose had been hatched from. Ahmet said he did not know.

"Then," replied the Cadi, "the book writes that such a phenomenon was possible. If this goose
was hatched from the seventh egg, and the hatcher also from the seventh egg, the book writes
that it is possible for a roasted goose, under those conditions, to fly away."

"With reference to your eye," continued the Cadi, addressing the baker's lad, "the book provides
punishment for the removal of two eyes, but not of one, so if you will consent to your other
eye being taken out, I will condemn Ahmet to have both of his removed."

The baker's lad, not appreciating the force of this argument, withdrew his claim.

Then turning to the father of the dead child, the Cadi explained that the only provision for
a case like this in the book of the law, was that he take Ahmet's child in its place, or if
Ahmet had not a child, to wait till he got one. The bereaved parent not taking any interest
in Ahmet's present or prospective children, also withdrew his case.

These cases settled, there remained but the vender's, who was wroth at having his arm broken.
The Cadi expatiated on the justice of the law and its far-seeing provisions, that the vender
at least could claim ample compensation for having his arm broken. The book of the law provided
that he should go to the very same minaret, and that Ahmet must station himself at the very
same place where he had stood when his arm was broken; and that he might jump down and break
Ahmet's arm.

"But be it understood," concluded the Cadi, "if you break his leg instead of his arm, Ahmet
will have the right to delegate some one to jump down on you to break your leg."

The vender not seeing the force of the Cadi's proposal, also withdrew his claim.

Thus ended the cases of the goose, the eye, the daughter, and the arm.

THE FORTY WISE MEN

On a day amongst the many days, when the Turk was more earnest than now, before the Europeans
came and gave new ideas to our children, there lived and labored for the welfare of our people
an organized body of men. At whose suggestion this society was formed I know not. All that
we know of them to-day, through our fathers, is that their forefathers chose from among them
the most wise, sincere, and experienced forty brethren. These forty were named the Forty Wise
Men. When one of the forty was called away from his labors here, perhaps to continue them in
higher spheres, or to receive his reward, who knows? the remaining thirty-nine consulted and
chose from the community him whom they thought capable, and worthy of guiding and of being
guided, to add to their number. They lived and held their meetings in a mosque of which little
remains now, the destructive hand of time having left it but a battered dome, with cheerless
walls and great square holes, where once were iron bars and stained glass. It has gone--so
have the wise men. But its foundations are solid, and they may in time come to support an edifice
dedicated to noble work, and, Inshallah, the seed of the Forty Wise Men will also bear fruit
in the days that are not yet.

You will say, what good did this body of men do? These men who always numbered forty were,
as I have told you, originally chosen by the people, and when one of the forty departed from
his labors here, the remaining thirty-nine consulted together and from the most worthy of the
community they chose another member.

What was the good of this body of men? Great, great, my friends. Not only did they administer
justice to the oppressed, and give to the needy substantial aid; but their very existence had
the most beneficial effect on the community. Why? you ask. Because each vied with the other
to be worthy of being nominated for the vacancy when it occurred. No station in life was too
low to be admitted, no station was too high for one of the faithful to become one of the 'Forty.'
Here all were equal. As Allah himself doth consider mankind by deeds, so also mankind was considered
by the Forty Wise Men, who presided over the welfare and smoothed the destiny of the children
of Allah. With their years, their wisdom grew, and they were blessed by Allah.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the town of Scutari, over the way, there lived and labored a Dervish. His counsel to the
rash was ever ready, his sole object, apparently, in life was to become one of the Forty Wise
Men, who presided over the people and protected them from all ills.

The years went on, and still without a reward he patiently labored, no doubt contenting himself
with the idea that the day would come when the merit of his actions would be recognized by
Allah. That was a mistake, my friends; true faith expecteth nothing. However, the day did come,
and the Dervish's great desire had every appearance of being realized. One of the Forty Wise
Men having accomplished his mission on earth, departed this life. The remaining thirty-nine,
who still had duties to fulfil, consulted as to whom they should call to aid them in their
work. A eulogy was pronounced in favor of the Dervish. They not unjustly considered how he
had labored among the poor in Scutari; ever ready to help the needy, ever ready to counsel
the rash, ever ready to comfort and encourage the despairing. It was decided that he should
be nominated. A deputation consisting of three, two to listen, one to speak, was named, and
with the blessing of their brethren, for success, they entered a caique and were rowed to Scutari.
Arriving at the Dervish's gate, the spokesman thus addressed the would-be member of the Forty
Wise Men:

"Brother in the flesh, thy actions have been noted, and we come to put a proposition to thee,
which, after consideration, thou wilt either accept or reject as thou thinkest best for all
interested therein. We would ask thee to become one of us. We are sent hither by, and are the
representatives of, the sages who preside over the people. Brother, we number in all one hundred
and thirty-eight in spirit;--ninety-nine, having accomplished their task in the flesh, have
departed; thirty-nine, still in the flesh, endeavor their duty to fulfil. And it is the desire
of the one hundred and thirty-eight souls to add to us thyself, in order to complete our number
of laborers in the flesh. Brother, thy duties, which will be everlasting, thou wilt learn when
with us. Do thou consider, and we will return at the setting of the sun of the third day, to
receive thy answer."

And they turned to depart. But the Dervish stopped them, saying: "Brothers, I have no need
to consider the subject for three days, seeing that my inmost desire for thirty years, and
my sole object in life has been to become worthy of being one of you. In spirit I have long
been your brother, in the flesh it is easy to comply, seeing that it has been the spirit's desire."

Then answered the spokesman: "Brother, thou hast spoken well. Allah, thou art with us in our
choice; we praise Thee. Brother, one word! Our ways are different to all men's ways; thou hast
but to have faith, and all is well."

"Brethren, faith! I have had faith; my faith is now even strengthened. I do your bidding."

"Brother, first of all thy worldly goods must be disposed of and rendered into gold. Every
earthly possession thou hast must be represented by a piece of gold. Therefore see to that;
we have other duties to fulfil, but will return ere the sun sets in the west."

The Dervish set about selling all his goods; and when the coloring of the sky in the west harbingered
the closing of the day, he had disposed of everything and stood waiting with naught but a sack
of gold.

The three wise men returned, and, on seeing the Dervish, said: "Brother, thou hast done well;
we will hence."

A caique was in waiting, and the four entered. Silently the caique glided over the smooth surface
of the Bosphorus; and silently the occupants sat. When beyond Maidens' Tower, the spokesman,
turning to the Dervish, said: "Brother, with thy inmost blessing give me that sack, representing
everything thou dost possess in this world."

The Dervish handed the sack as he was bidden, and the wise man solemnly rose, and holding it
on high, said: "With the blessing of our brother Mustapha," and dropped it where the current
is strongest. Then, sitting down, resumed his silence. The deed was done, and nothing outward
told the story; the Caiquedji dipped his oars, and the waves rippled as soft as before. Nothing
but the distant, soothing cry of the Muezzin, calling the faithful to prayer, now waxing, now
waning, now completely dying away as they moved around the minarets, broke the stillness.

Ere long the boat was brought to the shore, the four men wended their way up the steep hill,
and the horizon, wrapped in the mantle of night, hid them from the boatman's sight. A few minutes'
walk brought them to the mosque of the Forty Wise Men; the spokesman turned to the Dervish,
and said: "Brother, faithfully follow," and then passed through the doorway. They entered a
large, vaulted chamber, the ceiling of which was artistically inlaid with mosaïques, and the
floor covered with tiles of the ceramic art of bygone ages. From the centre hung a large chandelier
holding a number of little oil cups, each shedding its tiny light, as if to show that union
was strength. Round this chandelier were seven brass filagreed, hemispherical-shaped lanterns,
holding several oil burners. These many tiny burners gave a soothing, contented, though undefined
light, which, together with the silence, added to the impressiveness of the place. Round this
hall were forty boxes of the same shape and size.

Our friend stood in the centre of the hall and under the influence of the scene, he was afraid
to breathe; he did not know whether to be happy or sad, for having come so far.

As he stood thus thinking, dreaming, one of the curtains was raised, and there came forth a
very old man, his venerable white beard all but touching his girdle.

Solemnly and slowly he walked over to the opposite side, and following in his train came thirty-eight
more, the last apparently being the youngest.

Chill after chill went coursing down the spinal cord of the astonished would-be brother, whilst
these men moved about in the unbroken silence, as if talking to invisible beings; now embracing,
now clasping hands, now bidding farewell.

The Dervish closed his eyes, opened them, Were these things so? Yes, it was no dream, no hallucination.
Yet why heard he no sound?

Each of the brethren now took his place beside a box, but there was one vacancy; no one stood
at the side of the box to the left of the youngest brother. Making a profound salaam, which
all answered, the old man silently turned, raised the curtain, and passed into the darkness,
each in his order following. As one in a trance, the Dervish watched one after another disappear.
The last now raised the curtain, but before vanishing, turned (it was the spokesman), and whispered:
"Brother, faith, follow!" and stepped into the darkness.

These words acted upon the Dervish like a spell; he followed.

Up, up, the winding stairway of a minaret they go. At last they arrive, and to the horror of
the Dervish, what does he see? One, two, three, disappear over the parapet, and his friend
the spokesman, with: "Brother, faith, follow!" also vanished into the inky darkness.

Again at the eleventh hour did the cheering words of the brother spokesman act upon the Dervish
like magic, he raised his foot to the parapet, and, in faltering decision, jumped up two or
three times. But man's guardian does not lead him over the rugged paths of life; he gives the
impulse and you must go. So it was with the Dervish. He jumped once, twice, thrice, but each
time fell backward instead of forward. My friends, he hesitated again; at the eleventh hour
he was encouraged, but undecided--he was not equal to the test. So, with a great weight on
his heart, he descended the winding stairs of the minaret. He had reached his zenith only in
desire, and was now on his decline.

Lamenting, like a weak mortal that he was, for not having followed, he again entered the hall
he had just left, with the intention, no doubt, of departing.

But the charm of the place was on him again, and as he stood the curtain moved, and the old
man advanced; and as before, the silence was unbroken. Again did each take his place beside
a box, again did the old man salaam, with the simultaneous response of the others. Again did
they gesture as if talking to invisible beings of some calamity which had befallen them which
they all regretted.

The old man went and opened the box that stood alone. From this he took, what? the identical
bag of gold that had been dropped into the Bosphorus some hours ago. The spokesman came forward
and took it from the hand of the old man. The Dervish now no longer believed that he was he
himself, and that these things were taking place. He understood not, he knew not.

Coming forward, the spokesman thus addressed the spell-bound Dervish, his voice giving a strange
echo, as if his words were emphasized by a hundred invisible mouths:

"Friend and brother in the flesh, but weak of the spirit, thou hast proved thyself unworthy
to impart that which thou hast not thyself,--Faith! Thine actions hitherto, of seeming conviction,
have not been for the eye of the Almighty, the All-seeing, the All-powerful alone, but for
the approbation of mankind. To get this approbation thou hast soared out of thine element;
the atmosphere is too rarified, thou canst not live, thou must return!

"Get thee back into the world, back to thy brothers; thou canst not be one of us. One hundred
and thirty-nine in the spirit have regretfully judged thee as lacking in faith, and not having
a sheltered apartment within thyself, thou canst not shelter others. No man can bequeath that
which he hath not. Go thy way, and in secret build thee a wall, brick by brick, action by action;
let none see thy place but the eye that seeth all, lest a side, when all but completed, fall,
and thou art again exposed to the four winds. Take thy money, thine all, and when hesitation
interrupts, offer a prayer in thy heart, and then faithfully follow! Farewell!"

And the Dervish was led out into the street, a lone and solitary man; he had his all in his
hand--a bag of gold.

HOW THE PRIEST KNEW THAT IT WOULD SNOW

A Turk travelling in Asia Minor came to a Christian village. He journeyed on horseback, was
accompanied by a black slave, and seeming a man of consequence, the priest of the village offered
him hospitality for the night. The first thing to be done was to conduct the traveller to the
stable, that he might see his horse attended to and comfortably stalled for the night. In the
stable was a magnificent Arab horse, belonging to the priest, and the Turk gazed upon it with
covetous eyes, but nevertheless, in order that no ill should befall the beautiful creature
and to counteract the influence of the evil eye with certainty, he spat at the animal. After
they had dined, the priest took his guest for a walk in the garden, and in the course of a
very pleasant conversation he informed the Turk that on the morrow there would be snow on the
ground.

"Never! Impossible!" said the Turk.

"Well, to-morrow you will see that I am right," said the priest.

"I am willing to stake my horse against yours, that you are wrong," answered the Turk, who
was delighted at this opportunity which gave him a chance of securing the horse, without committing
the breach in Oriental etiquette of asking his host if he would sell it. After some persuasion
the priest accepted his wager, and they separated for the night.

Later on that night, the Turk said to his slave: "Go, Sali, go and see what the weather says,
for truly my life is in want of our good host's horse."

Sali went out to make an observation, and on returning said to his master: "Master, the heavens
are like unto your face,--without a frown and many kindly sparkling eyes, and the earth is
like unto that of your black slave."

"'Tis well, Sali, 'tis well. What a beautiful animal that is!"

Later on, before retiring to rest, he sent his slave on another inspection, and was gratified
to receive the same answer. Early in the morning he awoke, and calling his slave, who had slept
at his door, he sent him forth again to see if any change had taken place.

"Oh master!" reported Sali, in trembling tones, "Nature has reversed herself, for the heavens
are now like the scowling face of your slave, and the earth is like yours, white, entirely white."

"Chok shai! wonderful thing. Then I have lost not only that beautiful animal but my own horse
as well. Oh pity! Oh pity!"

He gave up his horse, but before parting he begged the priest to tell him how he knew it would
snow.

"My pig told me as we were walking in the garden yesterday. I saw it put its nose in the heap
of manure you see in that corner, and I knew that to be a sure sign that it would snow on the
morrow," replied the priest.

Deeply mystified, the Turk and his slave proceeded on foot. Reaching a Turkish village before
nightfall, he sought and obtained shelter for the night from the Imam, the Mohammedan priest
of the village. While partaking of the evening meal he asked the Imam when the feast of the
Bairam would be.

"Truly, I do not know! When the cannons fire, I will know it is Bairam," said his host.

"What!" said the traveller, becoming angry, "you an Imam,--a learned Hodja,--and don't know
when it will be Bairam, and the pig of the Greek priest knew when it would snow? Shame! Shame!"

And becoming much angered, he declined the hospitality of the Imam and went elsewhere.

WHO WAS THE THIRTEENTH SON

In the town of Adrianople there lived an Armenian Patriarch, Munadi Hagop by name, respected
and loved alike by Mussulman and Christian. He was a man of wide reading and profound judgment.
The Ottoman Governor of the same place, Usref Pasha, happened also to be a man of considerable
acquirements and education. The Armenian and the Turk associated much together. In fact, they
were always either walking out together or visiting, one at the residence of the other. This
went on for some time, and the twelve wise men who were judges in the city thought that their
Governor was doing wrong in associating so much with a dog of a Christian; so they resolved
to call him to account.

This resolution taken, the entire twelve proceeded to the house of the Governor and told him
that he was setting a bad example to his subjects. They feared, too, that the salvation of
his own soul and of his posterity was in danger, should this Armenian in any way influence
his mind.

"My friends," answered the Governor, "this man is very learned, and the only reason why we
so often come together is because a great sympathy exists between us, and much mutual pleasure
is derived from this friendship. I ask his advice, and he gives me a clear explanation. He
is my friend, and I would gladly see him your friend."

"Oh," said the spokesman of the judges, "it is his wise answers that act as magic upon you?
We will give him a question to answer, and if he solves this to our satisfaction, he will then
in reality be a great man."

"I am sure you will not be disappointed!" said the Pasha. "He has never failed me, and I have
sometimes put questions to him which appeared unanswerable. He will surely call to-morrow.
Shall I send him to you or bring him myself?"

"We wish to see him alone," said the judges.

"I shall not fail to send him to you to-morrow, after which I am sure you will often seek his
company."

On the following day the Pasha told the Patriarch how matters stood, and begged him to call
on the gentlemen who took so lively an interest in their friendly association.

The Patriarch, never dreaming of what would happen, called on the twelve wise men and introduced
himself. They were holding the Divan, and the entrance of the Patriarch gave considerable pleasure
to them. On the table lay a turban and a drawn sword.

The customary salutations having been duly exchanged, the Patriarch seated himself, and at
once told them that his friend the Governor had asked him to call, and he took much pleasure
in making their acquaintance, adding that he would be happy to do anything in his power that
they might wish.

The spokesman of the Divan rose and said: "Effendi, our friend the Governor has told us of
your great learning, and we have decided to put a question to you. The reason of our taking
this liberty is because the Governor told us that he had never put a question to you which
had remained unanswered."

And as he spoke he moved toward the table.

"Effendi, our question will consist of only a few words." And laying his right hand on the
turban and his left hand on the sword, he said: "Is this the right, or is this the right?"

The Patriarch paused aghast at the terrible feature of the interrogation. He saw destruction
staring him in the face. Nevertheless he said to them with great composure: "Gentlemen, you
have put an exceedingly difficult question to me, the most difficult that could be put to man.
However, it is a question put, and now, according to your laws, cannot be recalled."

"No," answered the twelve wise men, rubbing their hands, "it cannot be recalled."

"I will but say that it grieves me much to have to reply to this," the Patriarch continued,
"and I cannot do so without continued prayers for guidance. Therefore I beg to request a week's
time before giving my answer."

To this no objection was made, and the Patriarch prepared to go. Respectfully bowing to all
present, as if nothing out of the common had happened, he slowly moved toward the door apparently
in deep thought.

Just as he reached the door he turned back and addressing the judges, said:

"Gentlemen, one of the reasons I had great pleasure in meeting you to-day was because I wished
to have your advice on a difficult legal problem which has been presented to me by some members
of my community. Knowing your great wisdom, I thought you might assist me, and as you are now
sitting in lawful council I shall, if agreeable to you, put the case before you and be greatly
pleased to learn your opinion."

The judges, whose curiosity was aroused, and who were flattered that a man of such reputation
for wisdom should submit a matter to them for their opinion, signified to him to proceed.

"Gentlemen and wise men," began the Patriarch, "there was once a father, and this father had
thirteen sons, who were esteemed by all who knew them. As time with sure hand marked its progress
on the issue of this good man, and the children grew into youth, they one by one went into
the world, spreading to the four known quarters of the globe, and carrying with them the good
influence given by their father. Through them the name of the father spread, causing a great
moral and mental revolution throughout the world. The father in his native home, however, saw
that his days were few, that he had well-nigh turned the leaves of the book of life, and yearned
to see his sons once more. He accordingly sent messengers all over the world, saying: 'Come,
my sons, and receive your father's blessing; he is about to depart this life, come and get
each one your portion of the worldly possessions I have, together with my blessing, and again
go forth, doing each your duty to God and man.'

"One by one the sons of the aged father came, and once more were united in the ancient home
of their childhood, with the exception of one son. The remaining days of the old man were spent
with his twelve sons, and the brothers found that all of them had retained the teachings of
infancy, and the pleasure was great. The reuniting of the family, though of comparatively short
duration, was happier by far than the years of childhood and youth which they had spent together.
Still the thirteenth son was not found. The messengers returned one after the other, bearing
no tidings of him. The old father saw that he could wait no longer, that he must dispose of
his worldly possessions, give his blessing to his twelve sons and rejoin his Father. So he
called them to his side and thus spoke to them:

"'My sons, as you have done may it be done unto you. You have cheered my last steps to the
grave, and I bless you.'

"And the father's blessing was bestowed on each.

"'Of all I possess I give to each of you an equal share with my blessing. You are my offspring
and the representatives of your father on earth. It is my will that you should continue as
you have begun. You are my twelve sons, and I have no other. Your brother who was, is no longer.
We have waited long, that he should take his portion and my blessing; but he has tarried elsewhere,
and now the hand of my Father is on me, and as you have come to me, so I must go to show Him
my work.'

"So the father ordained that the twelve should be his heirs, and declared that any one coming
after claiming to be his son, was an impostor. He also confirmed in the existing and competent
courts that these alone were his representatives on earth. This was duly registered in conformity
with the law, and the old father passed away to rejoin his forefathers.

"The twelve sons again went forth into the world and carried with them the blessings and teachings
of their father, and these teachings and ideas developed and grew, and the memory of their
father was cherished and blessed.

"Many years after, a person turned up claiming to be the missing son, and sought to obtain
the part due to him. Not only did he wish his share, but he claimed the whole worldly possessions
of his father, that he was the son blessed by his father, and exhorted all to follow his teachings.
By those who knew the circumstances, he was not believed; but many were ignorant of the father,
and also ignorant of the registering in the courts of law, and were inclined to believe in
the impostor.

"Now, gentlemen, this is the case that has troubled me much. As you are sitting in lawful council,
it would give me much pleasure if you could cast light on the case. Your statement will help
me, and I will be ever grateful to you. Had this son, the late returned person, any right to
all the worldly possessions of the father, or, in fact, even any right to an equal share?"

Thus having spoken he turned to the Hodjas with an inquiring look. They one and all, unanimously,
and in a breath said, that all the legal formalities having been carried out, the will of the
father was law, and the law he passed should be respected, therefore the thirteenth son was
an impostor. On returning he should have gone to his brothers, and no doubt he would have been
received as a brother, but he acted otherwise. He should receive nothing.

"I am glad to see that you look at it in that light, and I will now say that that has always
been my opinion, but your statement now adds strength to the conviction, and had there been
any doubt on my part, your unanimous declaration would have dispelled it. I would further esteem
it a great kindness and a favor if, as a reference and as a proof of my authority, or rather
as a corroboration of many proofs, you would, as you are sitting in lawful Divan, give your
signatures to the effect that the decision of the learned council was unanimous, and to this
said effect, that the thirteenth son was an impostor, and had no right to any of the possessions
he claimed."

Flattered that their opinion had such weight, the judges also consented to do this, and the
Patriarch set about drawing up the case. This he read to them, and each put his hand and seal
to the document.

The Patriarch thanked them and departed.

A week had passed, and the judges had entirely forgotten the case that had been put to them,
but they had not forgotten the Patriarch, and eagerly awaited his answer to their question
which left no alternative, and which would cause his head to be separated from his body by
a blow of the executioner. But the Patriarch did not make his appearance, and as the prescribed
time had passed, the judges went to the Governor to see what steps should be taken.

The Governor was deeply grieved when the judges told him of the terrible question they had
put to the Patriarch, yet remembering leaving that morning the Patriarch who had been with
him, and who seemed in no wise anxious, he said that he was convinced that either a satisfactory
answer had been given or would be forthcoming. He questioned the Hodjas as to what had taken
place, and they answered that nothing had been said beyond the question that had been put to
him and his request for a week's time in which to answer.

"Did he say nothing at all," asked the Pasha, "before he left?"

"Nothing," said the spokesman of the judges, "except that he put to us a case which he had
been called on to decide and asked our opinion."

"What was this case?" asked the Pasha. And the judges recited it to him, told what opinion
they had given, and stated that they had, at the Patriarch's request and for his use, placed
their seal to this opinion.

"Go home, you heads of asses," said the Governor, "and thank Allah that it is to a noble and
a great man who would make no unworthy use of it that you have delivered a document testifying
that Mohammed is an impostor. In future, venture not to enter into judgment with men whom it
has pleased God to give more wit than to yourselves."

PARADISE SOLD BY THE YARD

