THE CADMEAN MADNESS.

An old English divine fancied that all the world might go mad and nobody know it. The conception
suggests a query whether the standard of sanity, as of fashions and prices, be not a purely
artificial one, an accident of convention, a law of society, an arbitrary institute, and therefore
a possible mistake. A sage and a maniac each thinks the other mad. The decision is a matter
of majorities. Should a whole community become insane, it would nevertheless vote itself wise;
if the craze of Bedlam were uniform, its inmates could not distinguish it from a Pantheon;
and though all human history seemed to the gods only as a continuous series of mediæval processions
des sots et des ânes, yet the topsy-turvy intellect of the world would ever worship folly in
the name of wisdom. Arts and sciences, ideas and institutions, laws and learning would still
abound, transmogrified to suit the reigning madness. And as statistics reveal the late gradual
and general increase of insanity, it becomes a provident people to consider what may be the
ultimate results, if this increase should happen never to be checked. And if sanity be, indeed,
a glory which we might all lose unawares, we may well betake ourselves to very solemn reflection
as to whether we are, at the present moment, in our wits and senses, or not.

The peculiar proficiencies of great epochs are as astonishing as the exploits of individual
frenzy. The era of the Greek rhapsodists, when a body of matchless epical literature was handed
down by memory from generation to generation, and a recitation of the whole "Odyssey" was not
too much for a dinner-party,--the era of Periclean culture, when the Athenian populace was
wont to pass whole days in the theatre, attending with unfaltering intellectual keenness and
æsthetic delight to three or four long dramas, either of which would exhaust a modern audience,--the
wild and vast systems of imaginary abstractions, which the Neo-Platonists, as also the German
transcendentalists, so strangely devised and became enamored of,--the grotesque views of men
and things, the funny universe altogether, which made up both the popular and the learned thought
of the Middle Ages,--the Buddhistic Orient, with its subtile metaphysical illusions, its unreal
astronomical heavens, its habits of repose and its tornadoes of passion,--such are instances
of great diversities of character, which would be hardly accountable to each other on the supposition
of mutual sanity. They suggest a difference of ideas, moods, habits, and capacities, which
in contemporaries and associates would amply justify either party that happened to be the majority
in turning all the rest into insane asylums. It is the demoniac element, the raving of some
particular demon, that creates greatness either in men or nations. Power is maniacal. A mysterious
fury, a heavenly inspiration, an incomprehensible and irresistible impulse, goads humanity
on to achievements. Every age, every person, and every art obeys the wand of the enchanter.
History moves by indirections. The first historic tendency is likely to be slightly askew;
there follows then an historic triumph, then an historic eccentricity, then an historic folly,
then an explosion; and then the series begins again. In the grade of folly, hard upon an explosion,
lies modern literature.

The characteristic mania of the last two centuries is reading and writing. Solomon discovered
that much study is a weariness of the flesh; Aristophanes complained of the multitude and indignity
of authors in his time; and the famed preacher, Geyler von Kaisersberg, in the age of prevalent
monkery and Benedictine plodding, mentioned erudition and madness, on equal footing, as the
twin results of books: "Libri quosdam ad scientiam, quosdam ad insaniam deduxere." These were
successive symptoms of the growing malady. But where there was one writer in the time of Geyler,
there are a million now. He saw both health and disease, and could distinguish between them.
We see only the latter. Skill in letters, half a decade of centuries ago, was a miraculous
attainment, and placed its possessor in the rank of divines and diviners; now, inability to
read and write is accounted, with pauperism and crime, a ground for civil disfranchisement.
The old feudal merry and hearty ignorance has been everywhere corrupted by books and newspapers,
learning and intelligence, the cabalistic words of modern life. Popular poetry and music, ballads
and legends, wit and originality have disappeared before the barbaric intellectuality of our
Cadmean idolatry. Even the arts of conversation and oratory are waning, and may soon be lost;
we live only in second and silent thoughts: for who will waste fame and fortune by giving to
his friends the gems which will delight mankind? and how can a statesman grapple eloquently
with Fate, when the contest is not to be determined on the spot, but by quiet and remote people
coolly reading his speech several hours or days later? Even if we were vagarying into imbecility,
like the wildest Neo-Platonic hierophants, like the monkish chroniclers of the Middle Ages,
like other romantic and fantastic theorists who have leaped out of human nature into a purely
artificial realm, we should not know it, because we are all doing it uniformly.

The universe is a veiled Isis. The human mind from immemorial antiquity has ceased to regard
it. A small cohort of alphabets has enrobed it with a wavy texture of letters, beyond which
we cannot penetrate. The glamour is upon us, and when we would see the facts of Nature, we
behold only tracts of print. The God of the heavens and earth has hidden Himself from us since
we gave ourselves up to the worship of the false divinities of Phoenicia. No longer can we
admire the cosmos; for the cosmos lies beyond a long perspective of theorems and propositions
that cross our eyes, like countless bees, from the alcoves of philosophies and sciences. No
longer do we bask in the beauty of things, as in the sunlight; for when we would melt in feeling,
we hear nothing but the rattling of gems of verse. No longer does the mind, as sympathetic
priest and interpreter, hover amid the phenomena of time and space; for the forms of Nature
have given place to volumes, there are no objects but pages, and passions have been supplanted
by paragraphs. We no longer see the whirling universe, or feel the pulsing of life. Thought
itself has ceased to be a sprite, and flows through the mind only in the leaden shape of printed
sentences. The symbolism of letters is over us all. An all-pervading nominalism has completely
masked whatsoever there is that is real. More and more it is not the soul and Nature, but the
eye and print, whose resultant is thought. Nature disappears and the mind withers. No other
faculty has been developed in man but that of the reader, no other possibility but that of
the writer. The old-fashioned arts which used to imply human nature, which used to blossom
instinctively, which have given joy and beauty to society, are fading from the face of the
earth. Where are the ancient and mediæval popular games, those charming vital symptoms? The
people now read Dickens and Longfellow. Where are the old-fashioned instincts of worship and
love, consolation and mourning? The people have since found an antidote for these experiences
in Blair and Tupper, and other authors of renown. Where are those weird voices of the air and
forest and stream, those symptoms of an enchanted Nature, which used to thrill and bless the
soul of man? The duller ear of men has failed to hear them in this age of popular science.

Literature, using the word with a benevolent breadth of meaning which excludes no pretenders,
is the result of the invasion of letters. It is the fort which they occupy, which with too
hasty consideration has usually been regarded as friendly to the human race. Religions, laws,
sciences, arts, theories, and histories, instead of passing Ariel-like into the elements when
their task is done, are made perpetual prisoners in the alcoves of dreary libraries. They have
a fossil immortality, surviving themselves in covers, as poems have survived minstrels. The
memory of man is made omni-capacious; its burden increases with every generation; not even
the ignorance and stolidity of the past are allowed the final grace of being forgotten; and
omniscience is becoming at once more and more impossible and more and more fashionable. Whoever
reads only the books of his own time is superficial in proportion to the thickness of the ages.
But neither the genius of man, nor his length of days, has had an increase corresponding to
that of the realm of knowledge, the requirements of reading, and the conditions of intelligence.
The multiplied attractions only crowd and obstruct the necessarily narrow line of duty, possibility,
and destiny. Life threatens to be extinguished by its own shadow, by the débris kept in the
current by countless tenacious records. Its essence escapes to heaven or into new forms, but
its ghosts still walk the earth in print. Like that mythical serpent which advanced only as
it grew in length, so knowledge spans the whole length of the ages. Some philosopher conceived
of history as the migration and growth of reason throughout time, culminating in successive
historical ideas. He, however, supposed that the idea of every age had nothing to do with any
preceding age; it had passed through whatsoever previous stages, had been somewhat modified
by them, contained in itself all that was best in them, was improved and elevated at every
new epoch; but it had no memory, never looked backward, and was an ever rolling sphere, complete
in itself, leaving no trail behind. Human life, under the discipline of letters and common
schools, is not thus Hegelian, but advances under the boundless retrospection of literature.
And yet this is probably divine philosophy. It is probable that the faculty of memory belongs
to man only in an immature state of development, and that in some future and happier epoch
the past will be known to us only as it lives in the present; and then for the first time will
Realism in life take the place of Nominalism.

The largest library in the world, the Bibliothèque Impériale of Paris, (it has been successively,
like the adventurous and versatile throne of France, Royale, Nationale, and Impériale,) contains
very nearly one million of books, the collected fruits of all time. Consider an average book
in that collection: how much human labor does it stand for? How much capital was invested originally
in its production, and how much tribute of time and toil does it receive per annum? Regarding
books as intellectual estate, how much does it cost mankind to procure and keep up an average
specimen? What quantity of human resources has been originally and consecutively sunk in the
Parisian library? How much of human time, which is but a span, and of human emotion and thought,
which are sacred and not to be carelessly thrown away, lie latent therein?

The estimate must be highly speculative. Some books have cost a lifetime and a heartbreak;
others have been written at leisure in a week, and without an emotion. Some are born from the
martyrdom of a thinker to fire the genius of a populace; others are the coruscations of joy,
and have a smile for their immortal heir. Some have made but the slightest momentary ripple
in human affairs; others, first gathering eddies about themselves, have swept forward in grand
currents, engrossing for centuries whole departments of human energy. Thousands publish and
are forgotten before they die. Spinoza published after his death and is not yet understood.

We will begin with the destined bibliomacher at the time of his assumption of short clothes.
The alphabet is his first professional torture, and that only ushers him upon the gigantic
task of learning to read and write his own language. Experience shows that this miracle of
memory and associative reason may be in the main accomplished by the time he is eight years
old. Thus far in his progress towards book-making he has simply got his fingers hold of the
pen. He has next to run the gauntlet of the languages, sciences, and arts, to pass through
the epoch of the scholar, with satchel under his arm, with pale cheek, an eremite and ascetic
in the religion of Cadmus. At length, at about twenty years of age, he leaves the university,
not a master, but a bachelor of liberal studies. But thus far he has laid only the foundation,
has acquired only rudiments and generalities, has only served his apprenticeship to letters.
God gave mind and nature, but art has furnished him a new capacity and a new world,--the capacity
to read, and the world of books. He has simply acquired a new nature, a psychological texture
of letters, but the artificial tabula rasa has yet to be filled. Twenty obstetrical years have
at last made him a literary animal, have furnished him the abstract conditions of authorship;
but he has yet his life to save, and his fortune to make in literature. He is born into the
mystic fraternity of readers and writers, but the special studies and experiences which fit
him for anything, which make a book possible, are still in the future. He will be fortunate,
if he gets through with them, and gets his first volume off his hands by the age of thirty.
Authors are the shortest-lived of men. Their average years are less than fifty. Our bibliomacher
has therefore twenty years left to him. Taking all time together, since formerly authors wrote
less abundantly than now, he will not produce more than one work in five years, that is, five
works in his lifetime of fifty years. The conclusion to which this rather precarious investigation
thus brings us is, that the original cost of an average book is ten years of a human life.
And yet these ten years make but the mere suggestion of the book. The suggestion must be developed
by an army of printers, sellers, and librarians. What other institution in the world is there
but the Bibliothèque Impériale, to the mere suggestion of which ten millions of laborious years
have been devoted?

