III.

LIFE OF SAMUEL JOHNSON, LL.D. (MARCH 1776--OCT. 1780).

Johnson had with him upon this jaunt, 'Il Palmerino d'Inghilterra,' a romance[3] praised by
Cervantes; but did not like it much. I mentioned that old Mr. Sheridan complained of the ingratitude
of Mr. Wedderburne[4] and General Fraser, who had been much obliged to him when they were young
Scotchmen entering upon life in England. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, a man is very apt to complain
of the ingratitude of those who have risen far above him. A man when he gets into a higher
sphere, into other habits of life, cannot keep up all his former connections. Then, Sir, those
who knew him formerly upon a level with themselves, may think that they ought still to be treated
as on a level, which cannot be; and an acquaintance in a former situation may bring out things
which it would be very disagreeable to have mentioned before higher company, though, perhaps,
every body knows of them.' He placed this subject in a new light to me, and shewed that a man
who has risen in the world, must not be condemned too harshly for being distant to former acquaintance,
even though he may have been much obliged to them.' It is, no doubt, to be wished that a proper
degree of attention should be shewn by great men to their early friends. But if either from
obtuse insensibility to difference of situation, or presumptuous forwardness, which will not
submit even to an exteriour observance of it, the dignity of high place cannot be preserved,
when they are admitted into the company of those raised above the state in which they once
were, encroachment must be repelled, and the kinder feelings sacrificed. To one of the very
fortunate persons whom I have mentioned, namely, Mr. Wedderburne, now Lord Loughborough, I
must do the justice to relate, that I have been assured by another early acquaintance of his,
old Mr. Macklin[5], who assisted in improving his pronunciation, that he found him very grateful.
Macklin, I suppose, had not pressed upon his elevation with so much eagerness as the gentleman
who complained of him. Dr. Johnson's remark as to the jealousy 'entertained of our friends
who rise far above us,' is certainly very just. By this was withered the early friendship between
Charles Townshend and Akenside[6]; and many similar instances might be adduced. It was an undoubted
proof of his good sense and good disposition, that he was never querulous, never prone to inveigh
against the present times, as is so common when superficial minds are on the fret. On the contrary,
he was willing to speak favourably of his own age; and, indeed, maintained its superiority[8]
in every respect, except in its reverence for government; the relaxation of which he imputed,
as its grand cause, to the shock which our monarchy received at the Revolution, though necessary[9];
and secondly, to the timid concessions made to faction by successive administrations in the
reign of his present Majesty. I am happy to think, that he lived to see the Crown at last recover
its just influence[10]. I expressed to him a weakness of mind which I could not help; an uneasy
apprehension that my wife and children, who were at a great distance from me, might, perhaps,
be ill. 'Sir, (said he,) consider how foolish you would think it in them to be apprehensive
that you are ill[13].' This sudden turn relieved me for the moment; but I afterwards perceived
it to be an ingenious fallacy. I might, to be sure, be satisfied that they had no reason to
be apprehensive about me, because I knew that I myself was well: but we might have a mutual
anxiety, without the charge of folly; because each was, in some degree, uncertain as to the
condition of the other. Sir Joshua Reynolds is the same all the year round[18]. I told him
that while I was with the Captain, I catched the enthusiasm[26] of curiosity and adventure,
and felt a strong inclination to go with him on his next voyage. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, a man
does feel so, till he considers how very little he can learn from such voyages.' BOSWELL. 'But
one is carried away with the general grand and indistinct notion of A VOYAGE ROUND THE WORLD.'
JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, but a man is to guard himself against taking a thing in general.' I said
I was certain that a great part of what we are told by the travellers to the South Sea must
be conjecture, because they had not enough of the language of those countries to understand
so much as they have related. Objects falling under the observation of the senses might be
clearly known; but every thing intellectual, every thing abstract--politicks, morals, and religion,
must be darkly guessed. Dr. Johnson was of the same opinion. I brought with me Mr. Murray,
Solicitor-General of Scotland, now one of the Judges of the Court of Session, with the title
of Lord Henderland. I mentioned Mr. Solicitor's relation, Lord Charles Hay[29], with whom I
knew Dr. Johnson had been acquainted. JOHNSON. 'I wrote something[30] for Lord Charles; and
I thought he had nothing to fear from a court-martial. I suffered a great loss when he died;
he was a mighty pleasing man in conversation, and a reading man. The character of a soldier
is high. They who stand forth the foremost in danger, for the community, have the respect of
mankind. An officer is much more respected than any other man who has as little money. In a
commercial country, money will always purchase respect. But you find, an officer, who has,
properly speaking, no money, is every where well received and treated with attention. The character
of a soldier always stands him in stead[31].' BOSWELL. 'Yet, Sir, I think that common soldiers
are worse thought of than other men in the same rank of life; such as labourers.' JOHNSON.
'Why, Sir, a common soldier is usually a very gross man[32], and any quality which procures
respect may be overwhelmed by grossness. A man of learning may be so vicious or so ridiculous
that you cannot respect him. A common soldier too, generally eats more than he can pay for.
But when a common soldier is civil in his quarters, his red coat procures him a degree of respect[33].'
The peculiar respect paid to the military character in France was mentioned. BOSWELL. 'I should
think that where military men are so numerous, they would be less valued as not being rare.'
JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, wherever a particular character or profession is high in the estimation
of a people, those who are of it will be valued above other men. We value an Englishman highly
in this country, and yet Englishmen are not rare in it.'

Mr. Murray praised the ancient philosophers for the candour and good humour with which those
of different sects disputed with each other. JOHNSON. 'Sir, they disputed with good humour,
because they were not in earnest as to religion. Had the ancients been serious in their belief,
we should not have had their Gods exhibited in the manner we find them represented in the Poets.
The people would not have suffered it. They disputed with good humour upon their fanciful theories,
because they were not interested in the truth of them: when a man has nothing to lose, he may
be in good humour with his opponent. Accordingly you see in Lucian, the Epicurean, who argues
only negatively, keeps his temper; the Stoick, who has something positive to preserve, grows
angry[34]. Being angry with one who controverts an opinion which you value, is a necessary
consequence of the uneasiness which you feel. Every man who attacks my belief, diminishes in
some degree my confidence in it, and therefore makes me uneasy; and I am angry with him who
makes me uneasy[35]. Those only who believed in revelation have been angry at having their
faith called in question; because they only had something upon which they could rest as matter
of fact.' MURRAY. 'It seems to me that we are not angry at a man for controverting an opinion
which we believe and value; we rather pity him.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir; to be sure when you wish
a man to have that belief which you think is of infinite advantage, you wish well to him; but
your primary consideration is your own quiet. If a madman were to come into this room with
a stick in his hand, no doubt we should pity the state of his mind; but our primary consideration
would be to take care of ourselves. We should knock him down first, and pity him afterwards.
No, Sir; every man will dispute with great good humour upon a subject in which he is not interested.
I will dispute very calmly upon the probability of another man's son being hanged; but if a
man zealously enforces the probability that my own son will be hanged, I shall certainly not
be in a very good humour with him.' I added this illustration, 'If a man endeavours to convince
me that my wife, whom I love very much, and in whom I place great confidence, is a disagreeable
woman, and is even unfaithful to me, I shall be very angry, for he is putting me in fear of
being unhappy.' MURRAY. 'But, Sir, truth will always bear an examination.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir,
but it is painful to be forced to defend it. Consider, Sir, how should you like, though conscious
of your innocence, to be tried before a jury for a capital crime, once a week.'

We talked of education at great schools; the advantages and disadvantages of which Johnson
displayed in a luminous manner; but his arguments preponderated so much in favour of the benefit
which a boy of good parts[36] might receive at one of them, that I have reason to believe Mr.
Murray was very much influenced by what he had heard to-day, in his determination to send his
own son to Westminster school[37].--I have acted in the same manner with regard to my own two
sons; having placed the eldest at Eton, and the second at Westminster. I cannot say which is
best.[38] But in justice to both those noble seminaries, I with high satisfaction declare,
that my boys have derived from them a great deal of good, and no evil: and I trust they will,
like Horace[39], be grateful to their father for giving them so valuable an education. It is
not so with us. Mr. Murray maintained there should be reparation, unless the author could justify
himself by proving the fact. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is of so much more consequence that truth should
be told, than that individuals should not be made uneasy, that it is much better that the law
does not restrain writing freely concerning the characters of the dead. Damages will be given
to a man who is calumniated in his life-time, because he may be hurt in his worldly interest,
or at least hurt in his mind: but the law does not regard that uneasiness which a man feels
on having his ancestor calumniated[46]. That is too nice. Let him deny what is said, and let
the matter have a fair chance by discussion. But, if a man could say nothing against a character
but what he can prove, history could not be written; for a great deal is known of men of which
proof cannot be brought. A minister may be notoriously known to take bribes, and yet you may
not be able to prove it.' Mr. Murray suggested, that the authour should be obliged to shew
some sort of evidence, though he would not require a strict legal proof: but Johnson firmly
and resolutely opposed any restraint whatever, as adverse to a free investigation of the characters
of mankind[47].

On Thursday, April 4, having called on Dr. Johnson, I said, it was a pity that truth was not
so firm as to bid defiance to all attacks, so that it might be shot at as much as people chose
to attempt, and yet remain unhurt. JOHNSON. 'Then, Sir, it would not be shot at. Would he not,
by doing so, be accessory to imposition? And, perhaps, a worthy, unsuspecting man might come
and marry this woman, unless the father inform him of the truth.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, he is accessory
to no imposition. His daughter is in his house; and if a man courts her, he takes his chance.
If a friend, or, indeed, if any man asks his opinion whether he should marry her, he ought
to advise him against it, without telling why, because his real opinion is then required. Or,
if he has other daughters who know of her frailty, he ought not to keep her in his house. You
are to consider the state of life is this; we are to judge of one another's characters as well
as we can; and a man is not bound, in honesty or honour, to tell us the faults of his daughter
or of himself. A man who has debauched his friend's daughter is not obliged to say to every
body--"Take care of me; don't let me into your houses without suspicion. I once debauched a
friend's daughter.

Dr. Johnson made a remark, which both Mr. Macbean and I thought new. It was this: that 'the
law against usury is for the protection of creditors as well as of debtors; for if there were
no such check, people would be apt, from the temptation of great interest, to lend to desperate
persons, by whom they would lose their money. He recommended Dr. Cheyne's books. I said, I
thought Cheyne had been reckoned whimsical. 'So he was, (said he,) in some things; but there
is no end of objections. He wrote a tragedy on the story of Leonidas, entitled The Patriot.
He read it to a company of lawyers, who found so many faults, that he wrote it over again:
so then there were two tragedies on the same subject and with the same title. Dr. Johnson told
us, that one of them was still in his possession. This very piece was, after his death, published
by some person who had been about him, and, for the sake of a little hasty profit, was fallaciously
advertised, so as to make it be believed to have been written by Johnson himself. Johnson said,
he did not know but he should; and he expressed his disapprobation of Dr. Hurd, for having
published a mutilated edition under the title of Select Works of Abraham Cowley.[83] Mr. Murphy
thought it a bad precedent; observing that any authour might be used in the same manner; and
that it was pleasing to see the variety of an authour's compositions, at different periods.

We talked of Flatman's Poems; and Mrs. Thrale observed, that Pope had partly borrowed from
him The dying Christian to his Soul.[84] Johnson repeated Rochester's verses upon Flatman[85],
which I think by much too severe:

'Nor that slow drudge in swift Pindarick strains, Flatman, who Cowley imitates with pains,
And rides a jaded Muse, whipt with loose reins.'

I like to recollect all the passages that I heard Johnson repeat: it stamps a value on them.

He told us, that the book entitled The Lives of the Poets, by Mr. Cibber, was entirely compiled
by Mr. Shiels, a Scotchman, one of his amanuenses. 'The bookseller (said he,) gave Theophilus
Cibber, who was then in prison, ten guineas, to allow Mr. Cibber to be put upon the title-page,
as the authour; by this, a double imposition was intended: in the first place, that it was
the work of a Cibber at all; and, in the second place, that it was the work of old Cibber.'[86]

Mr. Murphy said, that The Memoirs of Gray's Life set him much higher in his estimation than
his poems did; 'for you there saw a man constantly at work in literature.' Johnson acquiesced
in this; but depreciated the book, I thought, very unreasonably. For he said, 'I forced myself
to read it, only because it was a common topick of conversation. I found it mighty dull; and,
as to the style, it is fit for the second table[87].' Why he thought so I was at a loss to
conceive. He now gave it as his opinion, that 'Akenside[88] was a superiour poet both to Gray
and Mason.'

Talking of the Reviews, Johnson said, 'I think them very impartial: I do not know an instance
of partiality.'[89] He mentioned what had passed upon the subject of the Monthly and Critical
Reviews, in the conversation with which his Majesty had honoured him.[90] He expatiated a little
more on them this evening. 'The Monthly Reviewers (said he) are not Deists; but they are Christians
with as little christianity as may be; and are for pulling down all establishments. The Critical
Reviewers are for supporting the constitution both in church and state.[91] The Critical Reviewers,
I believe, often review without reading the books through; but lay hold of a topick, and write
chiefly from their own minds. One of the finest pieces in the English language is the paper
on Novelty,[94] yet we do not hear it talked of. It was written by Grove, a dissenting teacher.'
He would not, I perceived, call him a clergyman, though he was candid enough to allow very
great merit to his composition. Mr. Murphy said, he remembered when there were several people
alive in London, who enjoyed a considerable reputation merely from having written a paper in
The Spectator. He mentioned particularly Mr. Ince, who used to frequent Tom's coffee-house.
'But (said Johnson,) you must consider how highly Steele speaks of Mr. Ince[95].' He would
not allow that the paper[96] on carrying a boy to travel, signed Philip Homebred, which was
reported to be written by the Lord Chancellor Hardwicke, had merit. He said, 'it was quite
vulgar, and had nothing luminous.'

Johnson mentioned Dr. Barry's[97] System of Physick. 'He was a man (said he,) who had acquired
a high reputation in Dublin, came over to England, and brought his reputation with him, but
had not great success. His notion was, that pulsation occasions death by attrition; and that,
therefore, the way to preserve life is to retard pulsation[98]. But we know that pulsation
is strongest in infants, and that we increase in growth while it operates in its regular course;
so it cannot be the cause of destruction.' Soon after this, he said something very flattering
to Mrs. Thrale, which I do not recollect; but it concluded with wishing her long life.

A journey to Italy was still in his thoughts[103]. 'Sir, if it had not been for the art of
printing, we should now have no learning at all; for books would have perished faster than
they could have been transcribed.' This observation seems not just, considering for how many
ages books were preserved by writing alone.

The same gentleman maintained, that a general diffusion of knowledge among a people was a disadvantage;
for it made the vulgar rise above their humble sphere. JOHNSON. 'Sir, while knowledge is a
distinction, those who are possessed of it will naturally rise above those who are not. Merely
to read and write was a distinction at first; but we see when reading and writing have become
general, the common people keep their stations.

I introduced Aristotle's doctrine in his Art of Poetry, of 'the [Greek: katharis ton pathaematon],
the purging of the passions,' as the purpose of tragedy[118]. 'But how are the passions to
be purged by terrour and pity?' (said I, with an assumed air of ignorance, to incite him to
talk, for which it was often necessary to employ some address)[119]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you
are to consider what is the meaning of purging in the original sense. It is to expel impurities
from the human body. The mind is subject to the same imperfection. The passions are the great
movers of human actions; but they are mixed with such impurities, that it is necessary they
should be purged or refined by means of terrour and pity. For instance, ambition is a noble
passion; but by seeing upon the stage, that a man who is so excessively ambitious as to raise
himself by injustice, is punished, we are terrified at the fatal consequences of such a passion.
In the same manner a certain degree of resentment is necessary; but if we see that a man carries
it too far, we pity the object of it, and are taught to moderate that passion.' My record upon
this occasion does great injustice to Johnson's expression, which was so forcible and brilliant,
that Mr. Cradock whispered me, 'O that his words were written in a book[120]!'

I observed, the great defect of the tragedy of Othello was, that it had not a moral; for that
no man could resist the circumstances of suspicion which were artfully suggested to Othello's
mind. JOHNSON. 'In the first place, Sir, we learn from Othello this very useful moral, not
to make an unequal match; in the second place, we learn not to yield too readily to suspicion.
The handkerchief is merely a trick, though a very pretty trick; but there are no other circumstances
of reasonable suspicion, except what is related by Iago of Cassio's warm expressions concerning
Desdemona in his sleep; and that depended entirely upon the assertion of one man.[121] No,
Sir, I think Othello has more moral than almost any play.'

Talking of a penurious gentleman of our acquaintance, Johnson said, 'Sir, he is narrow, not
so much from avarice, as from impotence to spend his money. He cannot find in his heart to
pour out a bottle of wine; but he would not much care if it should sour.'

He said, he wished to see John Dennis's Critical Works collected. Davies said they would not
sell. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, they would have been thought as good as Odes commonly are, if Cumberland
had not put his name to them; but a name immediately draws censure, unless it be a name that
bears down everything before it. Nay, Cumberland has made his Odes subsidiary to the fame of
another man.[135] They might have run well enough by themselves; but he has not only loaded
them with a name, but has made them carry double.'

We talked of the Reviews, and Dr. Johnson spoke of them as he did at Thrale's.[136] Sir Joshua
said, what I have often thought, that he wondered to find so much good writing employed in
them, when the authours were to remain unknown, and so could not have the motive of fame. JOHNSON.
Having written to him, I received the following answer.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ. 'DEAR SIR,

'Why do you talk of neglect? When did I neglect you? If you will come to Bath, we shall all
be glad to see you. Come, therefore, as soon as you can.

'But I have a little business for you at London. Bid Francis look in the paper-drawer of the
chest of drawers in my bed-chamber, for two cases; one for the Attorney-General,[137] and one
for the Solicitor-General.[138] They lie, I think, at the top of my papers; otherwise they
are somewhere else, and will give me more trouble.

'Please to write to me immediately, if they can be found. Make my compliments to all our friends
round the world, and to Mrs. Williams at home.

'I am, Sir, your, &c. 'SAM.

Of a person[141] who differed from him in politicks, he said, 'In private life he is a very
honest gentleman; but I will not allow him to be so in publick life. People may be honest,
though they are doing wrong: that is, between their Maker and them. But we, who are suffering
by their pernicious conduct, are to destroy them. We are sure that ---- acts from interest.
We know what his genuine principles were. They who allow their passions to confound the distinctions
between right and wrong, are criminal. The characteristick of our own government at present
is imbecility.[145] The magistrate dare not call the guards for fear of being hanged. The guards
will not come, for fear of being given up to the blind rage of popular juries.'[146]

Of the father of one of our friends, he observed, 'He never clarified his notions, by filtrating
them through other minds. He had a canal upon his estate, where at one place the bank was too
low.--I dug the canal deeper,' said he.[147]

He told me that 'so long ago as 1748[148] he had read "The Grave, a Poem[149]," but did not
like it much.' I differed from him; for though it is not equal throughout, and is seldom elegantly
correct, it abounds in solemn thought, and poetical imagery beyond the common reach. The world
has differed from him; for the poem has passed through many editions, and is still much read
by people of a serious cast of mind.

A literary lady of large fortune[150] was mentioned, as one who did good to many, but by no
means 'by stealth,' and instead of 'blushing to find it fame,[151] acted evidently from vanity.
JOHNSON. 'I have seen no beings who do as much good from benevolence, as she does, from whatever
motive. If there are such under the earth, or in the clouds, I wish they would come up, or
come down. What Soame Jenyns says upon this subject is not to be minded; he is a wit. No, Sir;
to act from pure benevolence is not possible for finite beings. But have they not clipped rather
rudely, and gone a great deal closer than was necessary?[154]

A gentleman[155] expressed a wish to go and live three years at Otaheite, or New-Zealand, in
order to obtain a full acquaintance with people, so totally different from all that we have
ever known, and be satisfied what pure nature can do for man. JOHNSON. 'What could you learn,
Sir? What can savages tell, but what they themselves have seen? Of the past, or the invisible,
they can tell nothing. The inhabitants of Otaheite and New-Zealand are not in a state of pure
nature; for it is plain they broke off from some other people. Had they grown out of the ground,
you might have judged of a state of pure nature. Fanciful people may talk of a mythology being
amongst them; but it must be invention. They have once had religion, which has been gradually
debased. And what account of their religion can you suppose to be learnt from savages? Where
the place or the persons do not contribute to the zest of the conversation, it is unnecessary
to encumber my page with mentioning them. To know of what vintage our wine is, enables us to
judge of its value, and to drink it with more relish: but to have the produce of each vine
of one vineyard, in the same year, kept separate, would serve no purpose. To know that our
wine, (to use an advertising phrase,) is 'of the stock of an Ambassadour lately deceased,'
heightens its flavour: but it signifies nothing to know the bin where each bottle was once
deposited. Bodily strength, no doubt, contributes to this; but it would be so, exclusive of
that; for it is mind that always governs. When it comes to dry understanding, man has the better.'

'The little volumes entitled Respublicae,[166] which are very well done, were a bookseller's work.'

'There is much talk of the misery which we cause to the brute creation; but they are recompensed
by existence[167]. If they were not useful to man, and therefore protected by him, they would
not be nearly so numerous.' This argument is to be found in the able and benignant Hutchinson's
Moral Philosophy. But the question is, whether the animals who endure such sufferings of various
kinds, for the service and entertainment of man, would accept of existence upon the terms on
which they have it. Madame Sevigne[168], who, though she had many enjoyments, felt with delicate
sensibility the prevalence of misery, complains of the task of existence having been imposed
upon her without her consent[169]. There is a great deal of matter in them.'[174]

'Mrs. Williams was angry that Thrale's family did not send regularly to her every time they
heard from me while I was in the Hebrides. Little people are apt to be jealous: but they should
not be jealous; for they ought to consider, that superiour attention will necessarily be paid
to superiour fortune or rank. Two persons may have equal merit, and on that account may have
an equal claim to attention; but one of them may have also fortune and rank, and so may have
a double claim.'

Talking of his notes on Shakspeare, he said, 'I despise those who do not see that I am right
in the passage where as is repeated, and "asses of great charge" introduced. That on "To be,
or not to be," is disputable.'[175]

A gentleman, whom I found sitting with him one morning, said, that in his opinion the character
of an infidel was more detestable than that of a man notoriously guilty of an atrocious crime.
I differed from him, because we are surer of the odiousness of the one, than of the errour
of the other. JOHNSON. 'Sir, I agree with him; for the infidel would be guilty of any crime
if he were inclined to it.'

'Many things which are false are transmitted from book to book, and gain credit in the world.
One of these is the cry against the evil of luxury. Now the truth is, that luxury produces
much good[176]. Take the luxury of buildings in London. Does it not produce real advantage
in the conveniency and elegance of accommodation, and this all from the exertion of industry?
People will tell you, with a melancholy face, how many builders are in gaol. It is plain they
are in gaol, not for building; for rents are not fallen.--A man gives half a guinea for a dish
of green peas. How much gardening does this occasion? how many labourers must the competition
to have such things early in the market, keep in employment? You will hear it said, very gravely,
Why was not the half-guinea, thus spent in luxury, given to the poor? To how many might it
have afforded a good meal. Alas! has it not gone to the industrious poor, whom it is better
to support than the idle poor? You are much surer that you are doing good when you pay money
to those who work, as the recompence of their labour, than when you give money merely in charity.
Suppose the ancient luxury of a dish of peacock's brains were to be revived, how many carcases
would be left to the poor at a cheap rate: and as to the rout that is made about people who
are ruined by extravagance, it is no matter to the nation that some individuals suffer. To
some men it is given on condition of not taking liberties, which other men may take without
much harm. One may drink wine, and be nothing the worse for it; on another, wine may have effects
so inflammatory as to injure him both in body and mind, and perhaps, make him commit something
for which he may deserve to be hanged.'

'Lord Hailes's Annals of Scotland[182] have not that painted form which is the taste of this
age; but it is a book which will always sell, it has such a stability of dates, such a certainty
of facts, and such a punctuality of citation. I never before read Scotch history with certainty.'

I asked him whether he would advise me to read the Bible with a commentary, and what commentaries
he would recommend. JOHNSON. 'To be sure, Sir, I would have you read the Bible with a commentary;
and I would recommend Lowth and Patrick on the Old Testament, and Hammond on the New.'

During my stay in London this spring, I solicited his attention to another law case, in which
I was engaged. In the course of a contested election for the Borough of Dumfermline, which
I attended as one of my friend Colonel (afterwards Sir Archibald) Campbell's counsel; one of
his political agents, who was charged with having been unfaithful to his employer, and having
deserted to the opposite party for a pecuniary reward--attacked very rudely in a news-paper
the Reverend Mr. James Thomson, one of the ministers of that place, on account of a supposed
allusion to him in one of his sermons. Upon this the minister, on a subsequent Sunday, arraigned
him by name from the pulpit with some severity; and the agent, after the sermon was over, rose
up and asked the minister aloud, 'What bribe he had received for telling so many lies from
the chair of verity[183].' I was present at this very extraordinary scene. The person arraigned,
and his father and brother, who had also had a share both of the reproof from the pulpit, and
in the retaliation, brought an action against Mr. Thomson, in the Court of Session, for defamation
and damages, and I was one of the counsel for the reverend defendant. The Liberty of the Pulpit
was our great ground of defence; but we argued also on the provocation of the previous attack,
and on the instant retaliation. The Court of Session, however--the fifteen Judges, who are
at the same time the Jury, decided against the minister, contrary to my humble opinion; and
several of them expressed themselves with indignation against him. He was an aged gentleman,
formerly a military chaplain, and a man of high spirit and honour. Johnson was satisfied that
the judgement was wrong, and dictated to me the following argument in confutation of it:

'Of the censure pronounced from the pulpit, our determination must be formed, as in other cases,
by a consideration of the action itself, and the particular circumstances with which it is
invested.

'The right of censure and rebuke seems necessarily appendant to the pastoral office. He, to
whom the care of a congregation is entrusted, is considered as the shepherd of a flock, as
the teacher of a school, as the father of a family. As a shepherd tending not his own sheep
but those of his master, he is answerable for those that stray, and that lose themselves by
straying. But no man can be answerable for losses which he has not power to prevent, or for
vagrancy which he has not authority to restrain.

'As a teacher giving instruction for wages, and liable to reproach, if those whom he undertakes
to inform make no proficiency, he must have the power of enforcing attendance, of awakening
negligence, and repressing contradiction.

'As a father, he possesses the paternal authority of admonition, rebuke, and punishment. He
cannot, without reducing his office to an empty name, be hindered from the exercise of any
practice necessary to stimulate the idle, to reform the vicious, to check the petulant, and
correct the stubborn.

'If we enquire into the practice of the primitive church, we shall, I believe, find the ministers
of the word exercising the whole authority of this complicated character. We shall find them
not only encouraging the good by exhortation, but terrifying the wicked by reproof and denunciation.
In the earliest ages of the Church, while religion was yet pure from secular advantages, the
punishment of sinners was publick censure, and open penance; penalties inflicted merely by
ecclesiastical authority, at a time while the church had yet no help from the civil power;
while the hand of the magistrate lifted only the rod of persecution; and when governours were
ready to afford a refuge to all those who fled from clerical authority.

'That the Church, therefore, had once a power of publick censure is evident, because that power
was frequently exercised. That it borrowed not its power from the civil authority, is likewise
certain, because civil authority was at that time its enemy.

'The hour came at length, when after three hundred years of struggle and distress, Truth took
possession of imperial power, and the civil laws lent their aid to the ecclesiastical constitutions.
The magistrate from that time co-operated with the priest, and clerical sentences were made
efficacious by secular force. But the State, when it came to the assistance of the church,
had no intention to diminish its authority. Those rebukes and those censures which were lawful
before, were lawful still. But they had hitherto operated only upon voluntary submission. The
refractory and contemptuous were at first in no danger of temporal severities, except what
they might suffer from the reproaches of conscience, or the detestation of their fellow Christians.
When religion obtained the support of law, if admonitions and censures had no effect, they
were seconded by the magistrates with coercion and punishment.

'It therefore appears from ecclesiastical history, that the right of inflicting shame by publick
censure, has been always considered as inherent in the Church; and that this right was not
conferred by the civil power; for it was exercised when the civil power operated against it.
By the civil power it was never taken away; for the Christian magistrate interposed his office,
not to rescue sinners from censure, but to supply more powerful means of reformation; to add
pain where shame was insufficient; and when men were proclaimed unworthy of the society of
the faithful, to restrain them by imprisonment, from spreading abroad the contagion of wickedness.

'It is not improbable that from this acknowledged power of publick censure, grew in time the
practice of auricular confession. Those who dreaded the blast of publick reprehension, were
willing to submit themselves to the priest, by a private accusation of themselves; and to obtain
a reconciliation with the Church by a kind of clandestine absolution and invisible penance;
conditions with which the priest would in times of ignorance and corruption, easily comply,
as they increased his influence, by adding the knowledge of secret sins to that of notorious
offences, and enlarged his authority, by making him the sole arbiter of the terms of reconcilement.

'From this bondage the Reformation set us free. The minister has no longer power to press into
the retirements of conscience, to torture us by interrogatories, or put himself in possession
of our secrets and our lives. But though we have thus controlled his usurpations, his just
and original power remains unimpaired. He may still see, though he may not pry: he may yet
hear, though he may not question. And that knowledge which his eyes and ears force upon him
it is still his duty to use, for the benefit of his flock. A father who lives near a wicked
neighbour, may forbid a son to frequent his company. A minister who has in his congregation
a man of open and scandalous wickedness, may warn his parishioners to shun his conversation.
To warn them is not only lawful, but not to warn them would be criminal. He may warn them one
by one in friendly converse, or by a parochial visitation. But if he may warn each man singly,
what shall forbid him to warn them altogether? Of that which is to be made known to all, how
is there any difference whether it be communicated to each singly, or to all together? What
is known to all, must necessarily be publick. Whether it shall be publick at once, or publick
by degrees, is the only question. And of a sudden and solemn publication the impression is
deeper, and the warning more effectual.

'It may easily be urged, if a minister be thus left at liberty to delate sinners from the pulpit,
and to publish at will the crimes of a parishioner, he may often blast the innocent, and distress
the timorous. He may be suspicious, and condemn without evidence; he may be rash, and judge
without examination; he may be severe, and treat slight offences with too much harshness; he
may be malignant and partial, and gratify his private interest or resentment under the shelter
of his pastoral character.

'Of all this there is possibility, and of all this there is danger. But if possibility of evil
be to exclude good, no good ever can be done. If nothing is to be attempted in which there
is danger, we must all sink into hopeless inactivity. The evils that may be feared from this
practice arise not from any defect in the institution, but from the infirmities of human nature.
Power, in whatever hands it is placed, will be sometimes improperly exerted; yet courts of
law must judge, though they will sometimes judge amiss. A father must instruct his children,
though he himself may often want instruction. A minister must censure sinners, though his censure
may be sometimes erroneous by want of judgement, and sometimes unjust by want of honesty.

'If we examine the circumstances of the present case, we shall find the sentence neither erroneous
nor unjust; we shall find no breach of private confidence, no intrusion into secret transactions.
The fact was notorious and indubitable; so easy to be proved, that no proof was desired. The
act was base and treacherous, the perpetration insolent and open, and the example naturally
mischievous. The minister, however, being retired and recluse, had not yet heard what was publickly
known throughout the parish; and on occasion of a publick election, warned his people, according
to his duty, against the crimes which publick elections frequently produce. His warning was
felt by one of his parishioners, as pointed particularly at himself. But instead of producing,
as might be wished, private compunction and immediate reformation, it kindled only rage and
resentment. He charged his minister, in a publick paper, with scandal, defamation, and falsehood.
The minister, thus reproached, had his own character to vindicate, upon which his pastoral
authority must necessarily depend. To be charged with a defamatory lie is an injury which no
man patiently endures in common life. To be charged with polluting the pastoral office with
scandal and falsehood, was a violation of character still more atrocious, as it affected not
only his personal but his clerical veracity. His indignation naturally rose in proportion to
his honesty, and with all the fortitude of injured honesty, he dared this calumniator in the
church, and at once exonerated himself from censure, and rescued his flock from deception and
from danger. The man whom he accuses pretends not to be innocent; or at least only pretends;
for he declines a trial. The crime of which he is accused has frequent opportunities and strong
temptations. It has already spread far, with much depravation of private morals, and much injury
to publick happiness. To warn the people, therefore, against it was not wanton and officious,
but necessary and pastoral.

'What then is the fault with which this worthy minister is charged? He has usurped no dominion
over conscience. He has exerted no authority in support of doubtful and controverted opinions.
He has not dragged into light a bashful and corrigible sinner. His censure was directed against
a breach of morality, against an act which no man justifies. The man who appropriated this
censure to himself, is evidently and notoriously guilty. His consciousness of his own wickedness
incited him to attack his faithful reprover with open insolence and printed accusations. Such
an attack made defence necessary; and we hope it will be at last decided that the means of
defence were just and lawful.'

When I read this to Mr. Burke, he was highly pleased, and exclaimed, 'Well; he does his work
in a workman-like manner.'[184]

Mr. Thomson wished to bring the cause by appeal before the House of Lords, but was dissuaded
by the advice of the noble person who lately presided so ably in that Most Honourable House,
and who was then Attorney-General. As my readers will no doubt be glad also to read the opinion
of this eminent man upon the same subject, I shall here insert it.

CASE.
'There is herewith laid before you,
1. Petition for the Reverend Mr. James Thomson, minister of Dumfermline.
2. Answers thereto.
3. Copy of the judgement of the Court of Session upon both.
4. Notes of the opinions of the Judges, being the reasons upon which
   their decree is grounded.
'These papers you will please to peruse, and give your opinion, Whether
there is a probability of the above decree of the Court of Session's
being reversed, if Mr. Thomson should appeal from the same?'

'I don't think the appeal adviseable: not only because the value of the judgement is in no
degree adequate to the expence; but because there are many chances, that upon the general complexion
of the case, the impression will be taken to the disadvantage of the appellant.

'It is impossible to approve the style of that sermon. But the complaint was not less ungracious
from that man, who had behaved so ill by his original libel, and, at the time, when he received
the reproach he complains of. In the last article, all the plaintiffs are equally concerned.
It struck me also with some wonder, that the Judges should think so much fervour apposite to
the occasion of reproving the defendant for a little excess.

'Upon the matter, however, I agree with them in condemning the behaviour of the minister; and
in thinking it a subject fit for ecclesiastical censure; and even for an action, if any individual
could qualify[185] a wrong, and a damage arising from it. But this I doubt. The circumstance
of publishing the reproach in a pulpit, though extremely indecent, and culpable in another
view, does not constitute a different sort of wrong, or any other rule of law, than would have
obtained, if the same words had been pronounced elsewhere. I don't know whether there be any
difference in the law of Scotland, in the definition of slander, before the Commissaries, or
the Court of Session. The common law of England does not give way to actions for every reproachful
word. An action cannot be brought for general damages, upon any words which import less than
an offence cognisable by law; consequently no action could have been brought here for the words
in question. Both laws admit the truth to be a justification in action for words; and the law
of England does the same in actions for libels. The judgement, therefore, seems to me to have
been wrong, in that the Court repelled that defence. Mr. Arthur Lee could not but be very obnoxious
to Johnson, for he was not only a patriot but an American[196].

Foote being mentioned, Johnson said. 'I think not.'[211] BOSWELL. 'You will allow his Apology
to be well done.' JOHNSON.

'I was then member for Aylesbury.'

Dr. Johnson and Mr. Wilkes talked of the contested passage in Horace's Art of Poetry[218],
'Difficile est proprie communia dicere.' Mr. Wilkes according to my note, gave the interpretation
thus; 'It is difficult to speak with propriety of common things; as, if a poet had to speak
of Queen Caroline drinking tea, he must endeavour to avoid the vulgarity of cups and saucers.'
But upon reading my note, he tells me that he meant to say, that 'the word communia, being
a Roman law term, signifies here things communis juris, that is to say, what have never yet
been treated by any body; and this appears clearly from what followed,

"--Tuque Rectius Iliacum carmen deducis in actus Quam si proferres ignota indictaque primus."

'You will easier make a tragedy out of the Iliad than on any subject not handled before[219].'
JOHNSON. 'He means that it is difficult to appropriate to particular persons qualities which
are common to all mankind, as Homer has done.'

WILKES. 'We have no City-Poet now: that is an office which has gone into disuse. The last was
Elkanah Settle. There is something in names which one cannot help feeling. Now Elkanah Settle
sounds so queer, who can expect much from that name? We should have no hesitation to give it
for John Dryden, in preference to Elkanah Settle, from the names only, without knowing their
different merits[220].' JOHNSON. 'I suppose, Sir, Settle did as well for Aldermen in his time,
as John Home could do now. 'Sir, you will get more by the book than the jaunt will cost you;
so you will have your diversion for nothing, and add to your reputation.'

On the evening of the next day I took leave of him, being to set out for Scotland[234]. I thanked
him with great warmth for all his kindness. 'Sir, (said he,) you are very welcome. Nobody repays
it with more.'

How very false is the notion which has gone round the world of the rough, and passionate, and
harsh manners of this great and good man. That he had occasional sallies of heat of temper,
and that he was sometimes, perhaps, too 'easily provoked[235]' by absurdity and folly, and
sometimes too desirous of triumph in colloquial contest, must be allowed. The quickness both
of his perception and sensibility disposed him to sudden explosions of satire; to which his
extraordinary readiness of wit was a strong and almost irresistible incitement. To adopt one
of the finest images in Mr. Home's Douglas[236],

'On each glance of thought Decision followed, as the thunderbolt Pursues the flash!'

I admit that the beadle within him was often so eager to apply the lash, that the Judge had
not time to consider the case with sufficient deliberation.

That he was occasionally remarkable for violence of temper may be granted: but let us ascertain
the degree, and not let it be supposed that he was in a perpetual rage, and never without a
club in his hand, to knock down every one who approached him. JOHNSON.'

'May 16, 1776.'

TO THE SAME.

'SIR,

'Miss Reynolds has a mind to send the Epitaph to Dr. Beattie; I am very willing, but having
no copy, cannot immediately recollect it. She tells me you have lost it. Try to recollect and
put down as much as you retain; you perhaps may have kept what I have dropped. The lines for
which I am at a loss are something of rerum civilium sive naturalium.'[238] It was a sorry
trick to lose it; help me if you can. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'June 22, 1776. JOHNSON.'

'May 16, 1776.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, June 25, 1776.

'You have formerly complained that my letters were too long. There is no danger of that complaint
being made at present; for I find it difficult for me to write to you at all. [Here an account
of having been afflicted with a return of melancholy or bad spirits.]

'The boxes of books[248] which you sent to me are arrived; but I have not yet examined the
contents.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I send you Mr. Maclaurin's paper for the negro, who claims his freedom in the Court of Session.[249]'

'DR. JOHNSON TO MR. BOSWELL.

'Dear Sir,

'These black fits, of which you complain, perhaps hurt your memory as well as your imagination.
When did I complain that your letters were too long[250]? Your last letter, after a very long
delay, brought very bad news. [Here a series of reflections upon melancholy, and--what I could
not help thinking strangely unreasonable in him who had suffered so much from it himself,--a
good deal of severity and reproof, as if it were owing to my own fault, or that I was, perhaps,
affecting it from a desire of distinction.]

'Read Cheyne's English Malady;[251] but do not let him teach you a foolish notion that melancholy
is a proof of acuteness.

'To hear that you have not opened your boxes of books is very offensive. The examination and
arrangement of so many volumes might have afforded you an amusement very seasonable at present,
and useful for the whole of life. I am, I confess, very angry that you manage yourself so ill.[252]

'I do not now say any more, than that I am, with great kindness, and sincerity, dear Sir,

'Your humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'July 2, 1776.'

'It was last year[253] determined by Lord Mansfield, in the Court of King's Bench, that a negro
cannot be taken out of the kingdom without his own consent.'

'DR. JOHNSON TO MR. BOSWELL.

'DEAR SIR,

'I make haste to write again, lest my last letter should give you too much pain. If you are
really oppressed with overpowering and involuntary melancholy, you are to be pitied rather
than reproached.

      *       *       *       *       *

'Now, my dear Bozzy, let us have done with quarrels and with censure. Let me know whether I
have not sent you a pretty library. There are, perhaps, many books among them which you never
need read through; but there are none which it is not proper for you to know, and sometimes
to consult. Of these books, of which the use is only occasional, it is often sufficient to
know the contents, that, when any question arises, you may know where to look for information.

'Since I wrote, I have looked over Mr. Maclaurin's plea, and think it excellent. How is the
suit carried on? If by subscription, I commission you to contribute, in my name, what is proper.
Let nothing be wanting in such a case. Dr. Drummond[254], I see, is superseded. His father
would have grieved; but he lived to obtain the pleasure of his son's election, and died before
that pleasure was abated.

'Langton's lady has brought him a girl, and both are well; I dined with him the other day.

'It vexes me to tell you, that on the evening of the 29th of May I was seized by the gout,
and am not quite well. The pain has not been violent, but the weakness and tenderness were
very troublesome, and what is said to be very uncommon, it has not alleviated my other disorders.
Make use of youth and health while you have them; make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell. I am,
my dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'July 6[255], 1776.'

'Mr. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, July 18, 1776.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Your letter of the second of this month was rather a harsh medicine; but I was delighted with
that spontaneous tenderness, which, a few days afterwards, sent forth such balsam as your next
brought me. I found myself for some time so ill that all I could do was to preserve a decent
appearance, while all within was weakness and distress. Like a reduced garrison that has some
spirit left, I hung out flags, and planted all the force I could muster, upon the walls. I
am now much better, and I sincerely thank you for your kind attention and friendly counsel.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Count Manucci[256] came here last week from travelling in Ireland. I have shewn him what civilities
I could on his own account, on yours, and on that of Mr. and Mrs. Thrale. He has had a fall
from his horse, and been much hurt.

'SIR,

'A young man, whose name is Paterson, offers himself this evening to the Academy. He is the
son of a man[259] for whom I have long had a kindness, and who is now abroad in distress. I
shall be glad that you will be pleased to shew him any little countenance, or pay him any small
distinction. How much it is in your power to favour or to forward a young man I do not know;
nor do I know how much this candidate deserves favour by his personal merit, or what hopes
his proficiency may now give of future eminence. I recommend him as the son of my friend. Your
character and station enable you to give a young man great encouragement by very easy means.
You have heard of a man who asked no other favour of Sir Robert Walpole, than that he would
bow to him at his levee.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Aug. 3, 1776.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, August 30, 1776.

[After giving him an account of my having examined the chests of books which he had sent to
me, and which contained what may be truely called a numerous and miscellaneous Stall Library,
thrown together at random:--]

'Lord Hailes was against the decree in the case of my client, the minister;[260] not that he
justified the minister, but because the parishioner both provoked and retorted. I sent his
Lordship your able argument upon the case for his perusal. His observation upon it in a letter
to me was, "Dr. Johnson's Suasorium is pleasantly[261] and artfully composed. I suspect, however,
that he has not convinced himself; for, I believe that he is better read in ecclesiastical
history, than to imagine that a Bishop or a Presbyter has a right to begin censure or discipline
e cathedra[262]."

       *       *       *       *       *

'For the honour of Count Manucci, as well as to observe that exactness of truth which you have
taught me, I must correct what I said in a former letter. He did not fall from his horse, which
might have been an imputation on his skill as an officer of cavalry; his horse fell with him.

'I have, since I saw you, read every word of Granger's Biographical History. It has entertained
me exceedingly, and I do not think him the Whig that you supposed.[263] Horace Walpole's being
his patron[264] is, indeed, no good sign of his political principles. But he denied to Lord
Mountstuart that he was a Whig, and said he had been accused by both parties of partiality.
It seems he was like Pope,

"While Tories call me Whig, and Whigs a Tory[265]."

'I wish you would look more into his book; and as Lord Mountstuart wishes much to find a proper
person to continue the work upon Granger's plan, and has desired I would mention it to you;
if such a man occurs, please to let me know. His Lordship will give him generous encouragement.'

'TO MR. ROBERT LEVETT.

'DEAR SIR,

'Having spent about six weeks at this place, we have at length resolved upon returning. I expect
to see you all in Fleet-street on the 30th of this month.

'I did not go into the sea till last Friday[266], but think to go most of this week, though
I know not that it does me any good. My nights are very restless and tiresome, but I am otherwise
well.

'I have written word of my coming to Mrs. Williams. Remember me kindly to Francis and Betsy.
I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON[267].'

'Brighthelmstone[268], Oct. 21, 1776'

I again wrote to Dr. Johnson on the 21st of October, informing him, that my father had, in
the most liberal manner, paid a large debt for me[269], and that I had now the happiness of
being upon very good terms with him; to which he returned the following answer.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I had great pleasure in hearing that you are at last on good terms with your father[270].
Cultivate his kindness by all honest and manly means. Life is but short; no time can be afforded
but for the indulgence of real sorrow, or contests upon questions seriously momentous. Let
us not throw away any of our days upon useless resentment, or contend who shall hold out longest
in stubborn malignity. It is best not to be angry; and best, in the next place, to be quickly
reconciled. May you and your father pass the remainder of your time in reciprocal benevolence!

       *       *       *       *       *

'Do you ever hear from Mr. Langton? I visit him sometimes, but he does not talk. I do not like
his scheme of life[271]; but as I am not permitted to understand it, I cannot set any thing
right that is wrong. His children are sweet babies.

'I hope my irreconcileable enemy, Mrs. Boswell, is well. Desire her not to transmit her malevolence
to the young people. Let me have Alexander, and Veronica, and Euphemia, for my friends.

'Mrs. Williams, whom you may reckon as one of your well-wishers, is in a feeble and languishing
state, with little hope of growing better. She went for some part of the autumn into the country,
but is little benefited; and Dr. Lawrence confesses that his art is at an end. Death is, however,
at a distance; and what more than that can we say of ourselves? I am sorry for her pain, and
more sorry for her decay. Mr. Levett is sound, wind and limb.

'I was some weeks this autumn at Brighthelmstone. The place was very dull, and I was not well;
the expedition to the Hebrides was the most pleasant journey that I ever made[272]. Such an
effort annually would give the world a little diversification.

'Every year, however, we cannot wander, and must therefore endeavour to spend our time at home
as well as we can. I believe it is best to throw life into a method, that every hour may bring
its employment, and every employment have its hour. Xenophon observes, in his Treatise of Oeconomy[273],
that if every thing be kept in a certain place, when any thing is worn out or consumed, the
vacuity which it leaves will shew what is wanting; so if every part of time has its duty, the
hour will call into remembrance its proper engagement.

'I have not practised all this prudence myself, but I have suffered much for want of it; and
I would have you, by timely recollection and steady resolution, escape from those evils which
have lain heavy upon me[274]. I am, my dearest Boswell,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Bolt-court, Nov. 16, 1776.'

On the 16th of November I informed him that Mr. Strahan had sent me twelve copies of the Journey
to the Western Islands, handsomely bound, instead of the twenty copies which were stipulated[275];
but which, I supposed, were to be only in sheets; requested to know how they should be distributed:
and mentioned that I had another son born to me, who was named David, and was a sickly infant.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have been for some time ill of a cold, which, perhaps, I made an excuse to myself for not
writing, when in reality I knew not what to say.

'The books you must at last distribute as you think best, in my name, or your own, as you are
inclined, or as you judge most proper. Every body cannot be obliged; but I wish that nobody
may be offended. Do the best you can.

'I congratulate you on the increase of your family, and hope that little David is by this time
well, and his mamma perfectly recovered. I am much pleased to hear of the re-establishment
of kindness between you and your father. Cultivate his paternal tenderness as much as you can.
To live at variance at all is uncomfortable; and variance with a father is still more uncomfortable.
Besides that, in the whole dispute you have the wrong side; at least you gave the first provocations,
and some of them very offensive[276]. Let it now be all over. As you have no reason to think
that your new mother has shewn you any foul play, treat her with respect, and with some degree
of confidence; this will secure your father. When once a discordant family has felt the pleasure
of peace, they will not willingly lose it. If Mrs. Boswell would but be friends with me, we
might now shut the temple of Janus.

'What came of Dr. Memis's cause[277]? Is the question about the negro determined[278]? Has
Sir Allan any reasonable hopes[279]? What is become of poor Macquarry[280]? Let me know the
event of all these litigations. I wish particularly well to the negro and Sir Allan.

'Mrs. Williams has been much out of order; and though she is something better, is likely, in
her physician's opinion, to endure her malady for life, though she may, perhaps, die of some
other. Mrs. Thrale is big, and fancies that she carries a boy; if it were very reasonable to
wish much about it, I should wish her not to be disappointed. The desire of male heirs is not
appendant only to feudal tenures. A son is almost necessary to the continuance of Thrale's
fortune; for what can misses do with a brewhouse? Lands are fitter for daughters than trades[281].

'Baretti went away from Thrale's in some whimsical fit of disgust, or ill-nature, without taking
any leave[282]. It is well if he finds in any other place as good an habitation, and as many
conveniencies. He has got five-and-twenty guineas by translating Sir Joshua's Discourses into
Italian, and Mr. Thrale gave him an hundred in the spring[283]; so that he is yet in no difficulties.

'Colman has bought Foote's patent, and is to allow Foote for life sixteen hundred pounds a
year, as Reynolds told me, and to allow him to play so often on such terms that he may gain
four hundred pounds more[284]. What Colman can get by this bargain, but trouble and hazard,
I do not see. I am, dear Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Dec. 21, 1776.'

The Reverend Dr. Hugh Blair, who had long been admired as a preacher at Edinburgh, thought
now of diffusing his excellent sermons more extensively, and encreasing his reputation, by
publishing a collection of them. He transmitted the manuscript to Mr. Strahan, the printer,
who after keeping it for some time, wrote a letter to him, discouraging the publication[285].
Such at first was the unpropitious state of one of the most successful theological books that
has ever appeared. Mr. Strahan, however, had sent one of the sermons to Dr. Johnson for his
opinion; and after his unfavourable letter to Dr. Blair had been sent off, he received from
Johnson on Christmas-eve, a note in which was the following paragraph:

'I have read over Dr. Blair's first sermon with more than approbation; to say it is good, is
to say too little[286].'

I believe Mr. Strahan had very soon after this time a conversation with Dr. Johnson concerning
them; and then he very candidly wrote again to Dr. Blair, enclosing Johnson's note, and agreeing
to purchase the volume, for which he and Mr. Cadell gave one hundred pounds. The sale was so
rapid and extensive, and the approbation of the publick so high, that to their honour be it
recorded, the proprietors made Dr. Blair a present first of one sum, and afterwards of another,
of fifty pounds, thus voluntarily doubling the stipulated price; and when he prepared another
volume, they gave him at once three hundred pounds, being in all five hundred pounds, by an
agreement to which I am a subscribing witness; and now for a third octavo volume he has received
no less than six hundred pounds. I had made no resolution, but as my heart grew lighter, my
hopes revived, and my courage increased; and I wrote with my pencil in my Common Prayer Book,

"Vita ordinanda. Biblia legenda. Theologiae opera danda. Serviendum et laetandum[292]."'

Mr. Steevens whose generosity is well known, joined Dr. Johnson in kind assistance to a female
relation of Dr. Goldsmith, and desired that on her return to Ireland she would procure authentick
particulars of the life of her celebrated relation[293]. Concerning her there is the following
letter:--

'To GEORGE STEEVENS, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You will be glad to hear that from Mrs. Goldsmith, whom we lamented as drowned, I have received
a letter full of gratitude to us all, with promise to make the enquiries which we recommended
to her.

'I would have had the honour of conveying this intelligence to Miss Caulfield, but that her
letter is not at hand, and I know not the direction. You will tell the good news.

'I am, Sir,

'Your most, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'February 25, 1777.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 14, 1777.

'My Dear Sir,

'My state of epistolary accounts with you at present is extraordinary. The balance, as to number,
is on your side. I am indebted to you for two letters; one dated the 16th of November, upon
which very day I wrote to you, so that our letters were exactly exchanged, and one dated the
21st of December last.

'My heart was warmed with gratitude by the truely kind contents of both of them; and it is
amazing and vexing that I have allowed so much time to elapse without writing to you. But delay
is inherent in me, by nature or by bad habit. I waited till I should have an opportunity of
paying you my compliments on a new year. I have procrastinated till the year is no longer new.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Dr. Memis's cause was determined against him, with L40 costs. The Lord President, and two
other of the Judges, dissented from the majority, upon this ground;--that although there may
have been no intention to injure him by calling him Doctor of Medicine, instead of Physician,
yet, as he remonstrated against the designation before the charter was printed off, and represented
that it was disagreeable, and even hurtful to him, it was ill-natured to refuse to alter it,
and let him have the designation to which he was certainly entitled. My own opinion is, that
our court has judged wrong. The defendants were in mala fide, to persist in naming him in a
way that he disliked. Would it not have been wrong to have named him so in your Preface to
Shakspeare, or in any serious permanent writing of any sort? The difficulty is, whether an
action should be allowed on such petty wrongs. De minimis non curat lex.

'The Negro cause is not yet decided. A memorial is preparing on the side of slavery. I shall
send you a copy as soon as it is printed. Maclaurin is made happy by your approbation of his
memorial for the black.

'Macquarry was here in the winter, and we passed an evening together. The sale of his estate
cannot be prevented.

'Sir Allan Maclean's suit against the Duke of Argyle, for recovering the ancient inheritance
of his family, is now fairly before all our judges. I spoke for him yesterday, and Maclaurin
to-day; Crosbie spoke to-day against him. Three more counsel are to be heard, and next week
the cause will be determined. I send you the Informations, or Cases, on each side, which I
hope you will read. You said to me when we were under Sir Allan's hospitable roof, "I will
help him with my pen." You said it with a generous glow; and though his Grace of Argyle did
afterwards mount you upon an excellent horse, upon which "you looked like a Bishop[296]," you
must not swerve from your purpose at Inchkenneth. I wish you may understand the points at issue,
amidst our Scotch law principles and phrases.

[Here followed a full state of the case, in which I endeavoured to make it as clear as I could
to an Englishman, who had no knowledge of the formularies and technical language of the law
of Scotland.]

'I shall inform you how the cause is decided here. But as it may be brought under the review
of our Judges, and is certainly to be carried by appeal to the House of Lords, the assistance
of such a mind as yours will be of consequence. Your paper on Vicious Intromission[297] is
a noble proof of what you can do even in Scotch law.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I have not yet distributed all your books. Lord Hailes and Lord Monboddo have each received
one, and return you thanks. Monboddo dined with me lately, and having drank tea, we were a
good while by ourselves, and as I knew that he had read the Journey superficially, as he did
not talk of it as I wished, I brought it to him, and read aloud several passages; and then
he talked so, that I told him he was to have a copy from the authour. He begged that might
be marked on it.

'Dr. Blair is printing some sermons. If they are all like the first, which I have read, they
are sermones aurei, ac auro magis aurei. It is excellently written both as to doctrine and
language. Mr. Watson's book[302] seems to be much esteemed.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Poor Beauclerk still continues very ill[303]. Langton lives on as he used to do[304]. I am
better, but not well.

'I wish you would be vigilant and get me Graham's Telemachus[306] that was printed at Glasgow,
a very little book; and Johnstoni Poemata[307], another little book, printed at Middleburgh.

'Mrs. Williams sends her compliments, and promises that when you come hither, she will accommodate
you as well as ever she can in the old room[308]. She wishes to know whether you sent her book[309]
to Sir Alexander Gordon[310]. JOHNSON.'

'February 18, 1777.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 24, 1777.

'DEAR SIR,

'Your letter dated the 18th instant, I had the pleasure to receive last post. Although my late
long neglect, or rather delay, was truely culpable, I am tempted not to regret it, since it
has produced me so valuable a proof of your regard. I did, indeed, during that inexcusable
silence, sometimes divert the reproaches of my own mind, by fancying that I should hear again
from you, inquiring with some anxiety about me, because, for aught you knew, I might have been ill.

'You are pleased to shew me, that my kindness is of some consequence to you. My heart is elated
at the thought. Be assured, my dear Sir, that my affection and reverence for you are exalted
and steady. I do not believe that a more perfect attachment ever existed in the history of
mankind. And it is a noble attachment; for the attractions are Genius, Learning, and Piety.

'Your difficulty of breathing alarms me, and brings into my imagination an event, which although
in the natural course of things, I must expect at some period, I cannot view with composure.

       *       *       *       *       *

'My wife is much honoured by what you say of her. She begs you may accept of her best compliments.
She is to send you some marmalade of oranges of her own making. As to Miss Veronica's Scotch,
I think it cannot be helped. An English maid you might easily have; but she would still imitate
the greater number, as they would be likewise those whom she must most respect. Her dialect
will not be gross. Her Mamma has not much Scotch, and you have yourself very little. I hope
she knows my name, and does not call me Johnston[311].

'The immediate cause of my writing is this:--One Shaw[312], who seems a modest and a decent
man, has written an Erse Grammar, which a very learned Highlander, Macbean[313], has, at my
request, examined and approved.

'The book is very little, but Mr. Shaw has been persuaded by his friends to set it at half
a guinea, though I advised only a crown, and thought myself liberal. You, whom the authour
considers as a great encourager of ingenious men, will receive a parcel of his proposals and
receipts. I have undertaken to give you notice of them, and to solicit your countenance. You
must ask no poor man, because the price is really too high. Yet such a work deserves patronage.

'It is proposed to augment our club from twenty to thirty, of which I am glad; for as we have
several in it whom I do not much like to consort with[314], I am for reducing it to a mere
miscellaneous collection of conspicuous men, without any determinate character.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am, dear Sir,

'Most affectionately your's,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'March 11, 1777.'

'My respects to Madam, to Veronica, to Alexander, to Euphemia, to David.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, April 4, 1777.

[After informing him of the death of my little son David, and that I could not come to London
this spring:--]

'I think it hard that I should be a whole year without seeing you. May I presume to petition
for a meeting with you in the autumn? You have, I believe, seen all the cathedrals in England,
except that of Carlisle. If you are to be with Dr. Taylor, at Ashbourne, it would not be a
great journey to come thither. We may pass a few most agreeable days there by ourselves, and
I will accompany you a good part of the way to the southward again. Pray think of this.

'You forget that Mr. Shaw's Erse Grammar was put into your hands by myself last year. Lord
Eglintoune put it into mine. I am glad that Mr. Macbean approves of it. I have received Mr.
Shaw's Proposals for its publication, which I can perceive are written by the hand of a MASTER.

       *       *       *       *       *

'Pray get for me all the editions of Walton's Lives: I have a notion that the republication
of them with Notes will fall upon me, between Dr. Home and Lord Hailes[315].'

Mr. Shaw's Proposals[dagger] for An Analysis of the Scotch Celtick Language, were thus illuminated
by the pen of Johnson:

'Though the Erse dialect of the Celtick language has, from the earliest times, been spoken
in Britain, and still subsists in the northern parts and adjacent islands, yet, by the negligence
of a people rather warlike than lettered, it has hitherto been left to the caprice and judgement
of every speaker, and has floated in the living voice, without the steadiness of analogy, or
direction of rules. An Erse Grammar is an addition to the stores of literature; and its authour
hopes for the indulgence always shewn to those that attempt to do what was never done before.
If his work shall be found defective, it is at least all his own: he is not like other grammarians,
a compiler or transcriber; what he delivers, he has learned by attentive observation among
his countrymen, who perhaps will be themselves surprized to see that speech reduced to principles,
which they have used only by imitation. How could you omit to write to me on such an occasion?
I shall wait with anxiety.

'I am going to Auchinleck to stay a fortnight with my father. It is better not to be there
very long at one time. But frequent renewals of attention are agreeable to him.

'Pray tell me about this edition of "The English Poets, with a Preface, biographical and critical,
to each Authour, by Samuel Johnson, LL.D." which I see advertised. I am delighted with the
prospect of it. Indeed I am happy to feel that I am capable of being so much delighted with
literature.[316] But is not the charm of this publication chiefly owing to the magnum nomen
in the front of it? It is supposed to have been produced by the English custom of making April
fools, that is, of sending one another on some foolish errand on the first of April.

'Please to return Dr. Blair thanks for his sermons. The Scotch write English wonderfully well.

'Your frequent visits to Auchinleck, and your short stay there, are very laudable and very
judicious. Your present concord with your father gives me great pleasure; it was all that you
seemed to want.

'My health is very bad, and my nights are very unquiet.[319] What can I do to mend them? I
have for this summer nothing better in prospect than a journey into Staffordshire and Derbyshire,
perhaps with Oxford and Birmingham in my way.

'Make my compliments to Miss Veronica; I must leave it to her philosophy to comfort you for
the loss of little David. You must remember, that to keep three out of four is more than your
share. Mrs. Thrale has but four out of eleven.[320]

'I am engaged to write little Lives, and little Prefaces, to a little edition of The English
Poets. I think I have persuaded the book-sellers to insert something of Thomson; and if you
could give me some information about him, for the life which we have is very scanty, I should
be glad. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'May 3, 1777.'

To those who delight in tracing the progress of works of literature, it will be an entertainment
to compare the limited design with the ample execution of that admirable performance, The Lives
of the English Poets, which is the richest, most beautiful and indeed most perfect production
of Johnson's pen. His notion of it at this time appears in the preceding letter. He has a memorandum
in this year, '29 May[321], Easter Eve, I treated with booksellers on a bargain, but the time
was not long[322].' The bargain was concerning that undertaking; but his tender conscience
seems alarmed lest it should have intruded too much on his devout preparation for the solemnity
of the ensuing day. But, indeed, very little time was necessary for Johnson's concluding a
treaty with the booksellers; as he had, I believe, less attention to profit from his labours
than any man to whom literature has been a profession.[323] I shall here insert from a letter
to me from my late worthy friend Mr. Edward Dilly, though of a later date, an account of this
plan so happily conceived; since it was the occasion of procuring for us an elegant collection
of the best biography and criticism of which our language can boast.

'DR. JOHNSON TO CHARLES O'CONNOR, Esq.[328]

'SIR,

'Having had the pleasure of conversing with Dr. Campbell about your character and your literary
undertaking, I am resolved to gratify myself by renewing a correspondence which began and ended
a great while ago, and ended, I am afraid, by my fault; a fault which, if you have not forgotten
it, you must now forgive.

'If I have ever disappointed you, give me leave to tell you, that you have likewise disappointed
me. I expected great discoveries in Irish antiquity, and large publications in the Irish language;
but the world still remains at it was, doubtful and ignorant. What the Irish language is in
itself, and to what languages it has affinity, are very interesting questions, which every
man wishes to see resolved that has any philological or historical curiosity. Dr. Leland begins
his history too late: the ages which deserve an exact enquiry are those times (for[329] such
there were) when Ireland was the school of the west, the quiet habitation of sanctity and literature.
If you could give a history, though imperfect, of the Irish nation, from its conversion to
Christianity to the invasion from England, you would amplify knowledge with new views and new
objects. Set about it therefore, if you can: do what you can easily do without anxious exactness.
Lay the foundation, and leave the superstructure to posterity. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'May 19, 1777.'

Early in this year came out, in two volumes quarto, the posthumous works of the learned Dr.
Zachary Pearce, Bishop of Rochester; being A Commentary, with Notes, on the four Evangelists
and the Acts of the Apostles, with other theological pieces. Johnson had now an opportunity
of making a grateful return to that excellent prelate, who, we have seen[330], was the only
person who gave him any assistance in the compilation of his Dictionary. The Bishop had left
some account of his life and character, written by himself. To this Johnson made some valuable
additions[331][dagger], and also furnished to the editor, the Reverend Mr. Derby, a Dedication[dagger],
which I shall here insert, both because it will appear at this time with peculiar propriety;
and because it will tend to propagate and increase that 'fervour of Loyalty[332],' which in
me, who boast of the name of TORY, is not only a principle, but a passion.

'To THE KING.

'SIR,

'I presume to lay before your Majesty the last labours of a learned Bishop, who died in the
toils and duties of his calling[333]. He is now beyond the reach of all earthly honours and
rewards; and only the hope of inciting others to imitate him, makes it now fit to be remembered,
that he enjoyed in his life the favour of your Majesty.

'The tumultuary life of Princes seldom permits them to survey the wide extent of national interest,
without losing sight of private merit; to exhibit qualities which may be imitated by the highest
and the humblest of mankind; and to be at once amiable and great.

'Such characters, if now and then they appear in history, are contemplated with admiration.
May it be the ambition of all your subjects to make haste with their tribute of reverence:
and as posterity may learn from your Majesty how Kings should live, may they learn, likewise,
from your people, how they should be honoured. I am,

'May it please your Majesty, With the most profound respect, Your Majesty's Most dutiful and
devoted Subject and Servant.'

In the summer he wrote a Prologue[*] which was spoken before A Word to the Wise, a comedy by
Mr. Hugh Kelly[334], which had been brought upon the stage in 1770; but he being a writer for
ministry, in one of the news-papers, it fell a sacrifice to popular fury, and in the playhouse
phrase, was damned. By the generosity of Mr. Harris, the proprietor of Covent Garden theatre,
it was now exhibited for one night, for the benefit of the authour's widow and children. To
conciliate the favour of the audience was the intention of Johnson's Prologue, which, as it
is not long, I shall here insert, as a proof that his poetical talents were in no degree impaired.

'This night presents a play, which publick rage, Or right or wrong, once hooted from the stage:
From zeal or malice, now no more we dread, For English vengeance wars not with the dead. A
generous foe regards with pitying eye The man whom Fate has laid where all must lie. To wit,
reviving from its authour's dust, Be kind, ye judges, or at least be just: Let no renewed hostilities
invade Th' oblivious grave's inviolable shade. Let one great payment every claim appease, And
him who cannot hurt, allow to please; To please by scenes, unconscious of offence, By harmless
merriment, or useful sense. Where aught of bright or fair the piece displays, Approve it only;--'tis
too late to praise. If want of skill or want of care appear, Forbear to hiss;--the poet cannot
hear.

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'July 9, 1777.[342]

'MY DEAR SIR,

'For the health of my wife and children I have taken the little country-house at which you
visited my uncle, Dr. Boswell[343], who, having lost his wife, is gone to live with his son.
We took possession of our villa about a week ago; we have a garden of three quarters of an
acre, well stocked with fruit-trees and flowers, and gooseberries and currants, and peas and
beans, and cabbages, &c. &c., and my children are quite happy. I now write to you in a little
study, from the window of which I see around me a verdant grove, and beyond it the lofty mountain
called Arthur's Seat.

'Your last letter, in which you desire me to send you some additional information concerning
Thomson, reached me very fortunately just as I was going to Lanark, to put my wife's two nephews,
the young Campbells, to school there, under the care of Mr. Thomson, the master of it, whose
wife is sister to the authour of The Seasons. She is an old woman; but her memory is very good;
and she will with pleasure give me for you every particular that you wish to know, and she
can tell. Pray then take the trouble to send me such questions as may lead to biographical
materials. You say that the Life which we have of Thomson is scanty. Since I received your
letter I have read his Life, published under the name of Cibber, but as you told me, really
written by a Mr. Shiels[344]; that written by Dr. Murdoch; one prefixed to an edition of the
Seasons, published at Edinburgh, which is compounded of both, with the addition of an anecdote
of Quin's relieving Thomson from prison[345]; the abridgement of Murdoch's account of him,
in the Biographia Britannica, and another abridgement of it in the Biographical Dictionary,
enriched with Dr. Joseph Warton's critical panegyrick on the Seasons in his Essay on the Genius
and Writings of Pope: from all these it appears to me that we have a pretty full account of
this poet. However, you will, I doubt not, shew me many blanks, and I shall do what can be
done to have them filled up. As Thomson never returned to Scotland, (which you will think very
wise,) his sister can speak from her own knowledge only as to the early part of his life. She
has some letters from him, which may probably give light as to his more advanced progress,
if she will let us see them, which I suppose she will[346]. I believe George Lewis Scott[347]
and Dr. Armstrong[348] are now his only surviving companions, while he lived in and about London;
and they, I dare say, can tell more of him than is yet known. My own notion is, that Thomson
was a much coarser man than his friends are willing to acknowledge[349]. His Seasons are indeed
full of elegant and pious sentiments: but a rank soil, nay a dunghill, will produce beautiful
flowers[350].

'Your edition of The English Poets[351] will be very valuable, on account of the Prefaces and
Lives. But I have seen a specimen of an edition of The Poets at the Apollo press, at Edinburgh,
which, for excellence in printing and engraving, highly deserves a liberal encouragement.

'Most sincerely do I regret the bad health and bad rest with which you have been afflicted;
and I hope you are better. I cannot believe that the Prologue which you generously gave to
Mr. Kelly's widow and children the other day, is the effusion of one in sickness and in disquietude:
but external circumstances are never sure indications of the state of man. I send you a letter
which I wrote to you two years ago at Wilton[352]; and did not send it at the time, for fear
of being reproved as indulging too much tenderness; and one written to you at the tomb of Melancthon[353],
which I kept back, lest I should appear at once too superstitious and too enthusiastick. I
now imagine that perhaps they may please you.

'You do not take the least notice of my proposal for our meeting at Carlisle[354]. Though I
have meritoriously refrained from visiting London this year, I ask you if it would not be wrong
that I should be two years without having the benefit of your conversation, when, if you come
down as far as Derbyshire, we may meet at the expence of a few days' journeying, and not many
pounds. I wish you to see Carlisle, which made me mention that place. But if you have not a
desire to complete your tour of the English cathedrals, I will take a larger share of the road
between this place and Ashbourne. So tell me where you will fix for our passing a few days
by ourselves. Now don't cry "foolish fellow," or "idle dog." Chain your humour, and let your
kindness play.

'You will rejoice to hear that Miss Macleod, of Rasay[355], is married to Colonel Mure Campbell,
an excellent man, with a pretty good estate of his own, and the prospect of having the Earl
of Loudoun's fortune and honours. Is not this a noble lot for our fair Hebridean? How happy
am I that she is to be in Ayrshire. We shall have the Laird of Rasay, and old Malcolm, and
I know not how many gallant Macleods, and bagpipes, &c. &c. at Auchinleck. Perhaps you may
meet them all there.

'Without doubt you have read what is called The Life of David Hume[356], written by himself,
with the letter from Dr. Adam Smith subjoined to it. Is not this an age of daring effrontery?
My friend Mr. Anderson, Professor of Natural Philosophy at Glasgow, at whose house you and
I supped[357], and to whose care Mr. Windham[358], of Norfolk, was entrusted at that University,
paid me a visit lately; and after we had talked with indignation and contempt of the poisonous
productions with which this age is infested, he said there was now an excellent opportunity
for Dr. Johnson to step forth. I agreed with him that you might knock Hume's and Smith's heads
together, and make vain and ostentatious infidelity exceedingly ridiculous. Would it not be
worth your while to crush such noxious weeds in the moral garden?

'You have said nothing to me of Dr. Dodd[359]. I know not how you think on that subject; though
the newspapers give us a saying of your's in favour of mercy to him. But I own I am very desirous
that the royal prerogative of remission of punishment should be employed to exhibit an illustrious
instance of the regard which GOD's VICEGERENT will ever shew to piety and virtue. If for ten
righteous men the ALMIGHTY would have spared Sodom, shall not a thousand acts of goodness done
by Dr. Dodd counterbalance one crime? Such an instance would do more to encourage goodness,
than his execution would do to deter from vice. I am not afraid of any bad consequence to society;
for who will persevere for a long course of years in a distinguished discharge of religious
duties, with a view to commit a forgery with impunity?

'Pray make my best compliments acceptable to Mr. and Mrs. Thrale, by assuring them of my hearty
joy that the Master[360], as you call him, is alive. I hope I shall often taste his Champagne--soberly.

'I have not heard from Langton for a long time. I suppose he is as usual,

"Studious the busy moments to deceive[361]."

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have just received your packet from Mr. Thrale's, but have not day-light enough to look
much into it. I am glad that I have credit enough with Lord Hailes to be trusted with more
copy[362]. I hope to take more care of it than of the last. I return Mrs. Boswell my affectionate
thanks for her present, which I value as a token of reconciliation.

'Poor Dodd was put to death yesterday, in opposition to the recommendation of the jury[363]--the
petition of the city of London[364]--and a subsequent petition signed by three-and-twenty thousand
hands. Surely the voice of the publick, when it calls so loudly, and calls only for mercy,
ought to be heard[365].

'The saying that was given me in the papers I never spoke; but I wrote many of his petitions,
and some of his letters. He applied to me very often. He was, I am afraid, long flattered with
hopes of life; but I had no part in the dreadful delusion; for, as soon as the King had signed
his sentence[366], I obtained from Mr. Chamier[367] an account of the disposition of the court
towards him, with a declaration that there was no hope even of a respite. This letter immediately
was laid before Dodd; but he believed those whom he wished to be right, as it is thought, till
within three days of his end. He died with pious composure and resolution. I have just seen
the Ordinary that attended him. His address to his fellow-convicts offended the Methodists[368];
but he had a Moravian with him much of his time[369]. His moral character is very bad: I hope
all is not true that is charged upon him. Of his behaviour in prison an account will be published.

'I give you joy of your country-house, and your pretty garden; and hope some time to see you
in your felicity. I was much pleased with your two letters that had been kept so long in store[370];
and rejoice at Miss Rasay's advancement, and wish Sir Allan success.

'I hope to meet you somewhere towards the north, but am loath to come quite to Carlisle. Can
we not meet at Manchester? But we will settle it in some other letters.

'Mr. Seward[371], a great favourite at Streatham, has been, I think, enkindled by our travels
with a curiosity to see the Highlands. I have given him letters to you and Beattie. He desires
that a lodging may be taken for him at Edinburgh, against his arrival. He is just setting out.

'Langton has been exercising the militia[372]. Mrs. Williams is, I fear, declining. Dr. Lawrence
says he can do no more. She is gone to summer in the country, with as many conveniences about
her as she can expect; but I have no great hope. We must all die: may we all be prepared!

'I suppose Miss Boswell reads her book, and young Alexander takes to his learning. Let me hear
about them; for every thing that belongs to you, belongs in a more remote degree, and not,
I hope, very remote, to, dear Sir,

'Yours affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'June, 28, 1777.'

TO THE SAME.

'DEAR SIR,

'This gentleman is a great favourite at Streatham, and therefore you will easily believe that
he has very valuable qualities. Our narrative has kindled him with a desire of visiting the
Highlands, after having already seen a great part of Europe. You must receive him as a friend,
and when you have directed him to the curiosities of Edinburgh, give him instructions and recommendations
for the rest of his journey. I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'June 24, 1777.'

Johnson's benevolence to the unfortunate was, I am confident, as steady and active as that
of any of those who have been most eminently distinguished for that virtue. Innumerable proofs
of it I have no doubt will be for ever concealed from mortal eyes. We may, however, form some
judgement of it, from the many and very various instances which have been discovered. One,
which happened in the course of this summer, is remarkable from the name and connection of
the person who was the object of it. The circumstance to which I allude is ascertained by two
letters, one to Mr. Langton, and another to the Reverend Dr. Vyse, rector of Lambeth, son of
the respectable clergyman at Lichfield, who was contemporary with Johnson, and in whose father's
family Johnson had the happiness of being kindly received in his early years.

'DR. JOHNSON TO BENNET LANGTON, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have lately been much disordered by a difficulty of breathing, but am now better. I hope
your house is well.

'You know we have been talking lately of St. Cross, at Winchester; I have an old acquaintance
whose distress makes him very desirous of an hospital, and I am afraid I have not strength
enough to get him into the Chartreux. He is a painter, who never rose higher than to get his
immediate living, and from that, at eighty-three, he is disabled by a slight stroke of the
palsy, such as does not make him at all helpless on common occasions, though his hand is not
steady enough for his art.

'My request is, that you will try to obtain a promise of the next vacancy, from the Bishop
of Chester. It is not a great thing to ask, and I hope we shall obtain it. Dr. Warton has promised
to favour him with his notice, and I hope he may end his days in peace. I am, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'June 29, 1777.'

'To THE REVEREND DR. VYSE, AT LAMBETH.

'SIR,

'I doubt not but you will readily forgive me for taking the liberty of requesting your assistance
in recommending an old friend to his Grace the Archbishop, as Governour of the Charter-house.

'His name is De Groot; he was born at Gloucester; I have known him many years. He has all the
common claims to charity, being old, poor, and infirm, in a great degree. He has likewise another
claim, to which no scholar can refuse attention; he is by several descents the nephew of Hugo
Grotius; of him, from whom perhaps every man of learning has learnt something. Let it not be
said that in any lettered country a nephew of Grotius asked a charity and was refused.[373]

'I am, reverend Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'July 9, 1777.'

'REVEREND DR. VYSE TO MR. BOSWELL.

'Lambeth, June 9, 1787.

'SIR,

'I have searched in vain for the letter which I spoke of, and which I wished, at your desire,
to communicate to you. It was from Dr. Johnson, to return me thanks for my application to Archbishop
Cornwallis in favour of poor De Groot. He rejoices at the success it met with, and is lavish
in the praise he bestows upon his favourite, Hugo Grotius. I am really sorry that I cannot
find this letter, as it is worthy of the writer. That which I send you enclosed[374] is at
your service. It is very short, and will not perhaps be thought of any consequence, unless
you should judge proper to consider it as a proof of the very humane part which Dr. Johnson
took in behalf of a distressed and deserving person. I am, Sir,

'Your most obedient humble servant,

'W. VYSE.'

'DR. JOHNSON TO MR. EDWARD DILLY[375].

'SIR,

'To the collection of English Poets, I have recommended the volume of Dr. Watts to be added;
his name has long been held by me in veneration[376], and I would not willingly be reduced
to tell of him only that he was born and died. Yet of his life I know very little, and therefore
must pass him in a manner very unworthy of his character, unless some of his friends will favour
me with the necessary information; many of them must be known to you; and by your influence,
perhaps I may obtain some instruction. My plan does not exact much; but I wish to distinguish
Watts, a man who never wrote but for a good purpose. Be pleased to do for me what you can.

'I am, Sir, your humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Bolt-Court, Fleet-street, July 7, 1777.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, July 15, 1777.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'The fate of poor Dr. Dodd made a dismal impression upon my mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I had sagacity enough to divine that you wrote his speech to the Recorder, before sentence
was pronounced. I am glad you have written so much for him; and I hope to be favoured with
an exact list of the several pieces when we meet.

'I received Mr. Seward as the friend of Mr. and Mrs. Thrale, and as a gentleman recommended
by Dr. Johnson to my attention. I have introduced him to Lord Kames, Lord Monboddo, and Mr.
Nairne. He is gone to the Highlands with Dr. Gregory; when he returns I shall do more for him.

'Sir Allan Maclean has[377] carried that branch of his cause, of which we had good hopes: the
President and one other Judge only were against him. I wish the House of Lords may do as well
as the Court of Session has done. But Sir Allan has not the lands of Brolos quite cleared by
this judgement, till a long account is made up of debts and interests on the one side, and
rents on the other. I am, however, not much afraid of the balance.

'Macquarry's estates[378], Staffa and all, were sold yesterday, and bought by a Campbell. I
fear he will have little or nothing left out of the purchase money.

'I send you the case against the negro[379], by Mr. Cullen, son to Dr. Cullen, in opposition
to Maclaurin's for liberty, of which you have approved. Pray read this, and tell me what you
think as a Politician, as well as a Poet, upon the subject.

'Be so kind as to let me know how your time is to be distributed next autumn. I will meet you
at Manchester, or where you please; but I wish you would complete your tour of the cathedrals,
and come to Carlisle, and I will accompany you a part of the way homewards.

'I am ever,

'Most faithfully yours,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Your notion of the necessity of an yearly interview is very pleasing to both my vanity and
tenderness. I shall, perhaps, come to Carlisle another year; but my money has not held out
so well as it used to do. I shall go to Ashbourne, and I purpose to make Dr. Taylor invite
you. If you live awhile with me at his house, we shall have much time to ourselves, and our
stay will be no expence to us or him. I shall leave London the 28th; and after some stay at
Oxford and Lichfield, shall probably come to Ashbourne about the end of your Session, but of
all this you shall have notice. Be satisfied we will meet somewhere.

'What passed between me and poor Dr. Dodd you shall know more fully when we meet.

'Of lawsuits there is no end; poor Sir Allan must have another trial, for which, however, his
antagonist cannot be much blamed, having two Judges on his side. I am more afraid of the debts
than of the House of Lords. It is scarcely to be imagined to what debts will swell, that are
daily increasing by small additions, and how carelessly in a state of desperation debts are
contracted. Poor Macquarry was far from thinking that when he sold his islands he should receive
nothing. For what were they sold? And what was their yearly value? The admission of money into
the Highlands will soon put an end to the feudal modes of life, by making those men landlords
who were not chiefs. I do not know that the people will suffer by the change; but there was
in the patriarchal authority something venerable and pleasing. Every eye must look with pain
on a Campbell turning the Macquarries at will out of their sedes avitae, their hereditary island.

'Sir Alexander Dick is the only Scotsman liberal enough not to be angry that I could not find
trees, where trees were not. I was much delighted by his kind letter.

'I remember Rasay with too much pleasure not to partake of the happiness of any part of that
amiable family. Our ramble in the islands hangs upon my imagination, I can hardly help imagining
that we shall go again. Pennant seems to have seen a great deal which we did not see: when
we travel again let us look better about us.

'You have done right in taking your uncle's house. Some change in the form of life, gives from
time to time a new epocha[380] of existence. In a new place there is something new to be done,
and a different system of thoughts rises in the mind. I wish I could gather currants in your
garden. Now fit up a little study, and have your books ready at hand; do not spare a little
money, to make your habitation pleasing to yourself.

'I have dined lately with poor dear ----[381]. I do not think he goes on well. His table is
rather coarse, and he has his children too much about him[382]. But he is a very good man.

'Our CLUB ended its session about six weeks ago[383]. We now only meet to dine once a fortnight.
Mr. Dunning[384], the great lawyer, is one of our members. The Thrales are well.

'I long to know how the Negro's cause will be decided. What is the opinion of Lord Auchinleck,
or Lord Hailes, or Lord Monboddo?

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'July 22, 1777.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, July 28, 1777.

'My Dear Sir,

'This is the day on which you were to leave London and I have been amusing myself in the intervals
of my law-drudgery, with figuring you in the Oxford post-coach. I doubt, however, if you have
had so merry a journey as you and I had in that vehicle last year, when you made so much sport
with Gwyn[386], the architect. Incidents upon a journey are recollected with peculiar pleasure;
they are preserved in brisk spirits, and come up again in our minds, tinctured with that gaiety,
or at least that animation with which we first perceived them.'

       *       *       *       *       *

[I added, that something had occurred, which I was afraid might prevent me from meeting him[387];
and that my wife had been affected with complaints which threatened a consumption, but was
now better.]

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Do not disturb yourself about our interviews; I hope we shall have many; nor think it any
thing hard or unusual, that your design of meeting me is interrupted. We have both endured
greater evils, and have greater evils to expect.

'Mrs. Boswell's illness makes a more serious distress. Does the blood rise from her lungs or
from her stomach? From little vessels broken in the stomach there is no danger. Blood from
the lungs is, I believe, always frothy, as mixed with wind. Your physicians know very well
what is to be done. The loss of such a lady would, indeed, be very afflictive, and I hope she
is in no danger. Take care to keep her mind as easy as is possible.

'I have left Langton in London. He has been down with the militia, and is again quiet at home,
talking to his little people, as, I suppose, you do sometimes. Make my compliments to Miss
Veronica[388]. The rest are too young for ceremony.

'I cannot but hope that you have taken your country-house at a very seasonable time, and that
it may conduce to restore, or establish Mrs. Boswell's health, as well as provide room and
exercise for the young ones. That you and your lady may both be happy, and long enjoy your
happiness, is the sincere and earnest wish of, dear Sir,

'Your most, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Oxford, Aug. 4, 1777.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON. JOHNSON.'

'August 30, 1777.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'On Saturday I wrote a very short letter, immediately upon my arrival hither, to shew you that
I am not less desirous of the interview than yourself. Life admits not of delays; when pleasure
can be had, it is fit to catch it. Every hour takes away part of the things that please us,
and perhaps part of our disposition to be pleased. When I came to Lichfield, I found my old
friend Harry Jackson dead[389]. It was a loss, and a loss not to be repaired, as he was one
of the companions of my childhood. I hope we may long continue to gain friends, but the friends
which merit or usefulness can procure us, are not able to supply the place of old acquaintance,
with whom the days of youth may be retraced, and those images revived which gave the earliest
delight. If you and I live to be much older, we shall take great delight in talking over the
Hebridean Journey.

'In the mean time it may not be amiss to contrive some other little adventure, but what it
can be I know not; leave it, as Sidney says,

"To virtue, fortune, wine, and woman's breast[390];"

for I believe Mrs. Boswell must have some part in the consultation.

'One thing you will like. The Doctor, so far as I can judge, is likely to leave us enough to
ourselves. He was out to-day before I came down, and, I fancy, will stay out till dinner. I
have brought the papers about poor Dodd, to show you, but you will soon have dispatched them.

'Before I came away I sent poor Mrs. Williams into the country, very ill of a pituitous defluxion,
which wastes her gradually away, and which her physician declares himself unable to stop. I
supplied her as far as could be desired, with all conveniences to make her excursion and abode
pleasant and useful. But I am afraid she can only linger a short time in a morbid state of
weakness and pain.

'The Thrales, little and great, are all well, and purpose to go to Brighthelmstone at Michaelmas.
They will invite me to go with them, and perhaps I may go, but I hardly think I shall like
to stay the whole time; but of futurity we know but little.

'Mrs. Porter is well; but Mrs. Aston, one of the ladies at Stowhill, has been struck with a
palsy, from which she is not likely ever to recover. How soon may such a stroke fall upon us!

'Write to me, and let us know when we may expect you.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Ashbourne, Sept. 1, 1777.'

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Sept. 9, 1777.

[After informing him that I was to set out next day, in order to meet him at Ashbourne.]

'I have a present for you from Lord Hailes; the fifth book of Lactantius, which he has published
with Latin notes. He is also to give you a few anecdotes for your Life of Thomson, who I find
was private tutor to the present Earl of Hadington, Lord Hailes's cousin, a circumstance not
mentioned by Dr. Murdoch. I have keen expectations of delight from your edition of The English
Poets.

'I am sorry for poor Mrs. Williams's situation. You will, however, have the comfort of reflecting
on your kindness to her. Mr. Jackson's death, and Mrs. Aston's palsy, are gloomy circumstances.
Yet surely we should be habituated to the uncertainty of life and health. When my mind is unclouded
by melancholy, I consider the temporary distresses of this state of being, as "light afflictions[391],"
by stretching my mental view into that glorious after-existence, when they will appear to be
as nothing. But present pleasures and present pains must be felt. I lately read Rasselas over
again with great satisfaction[392].

'Since you are desirous to hear about Macquarry's sale I shall inform you particularly. The
gentleman who purchased Ulva is Mr. Campbell, of Auchnaba: our friend Macquarry was proprietor
of two-thirds of it, of which the rent was L156 5s 1-1/2d. This parcel was set up at L4,069
5s. 1d., but it sold for no less than L5,540. The other third of Ulva, with the island of Staffa,
belonged to Macquarry of Ormaig. Its rent, including that of Staffa, L83 12s. 2-1/2d. set up
at L2178 16s. 4d.--sold for no less than L3,540. The Laird of Col wished to purchase Ulva,
but he thought the price too high. There may, indeed, be great improvements made there, both
in fishing and agriculture; but the interest of the purchase-money exceeds the rent so very
much, that I doubt if the bargain will be profitable. There is an island called Little Colonsay,
of L10 yearly rent, which I am informed has belonged to the Macquarrys of Ulva for many ages,
but which was lately claimed by the Presbyterian Synod of Argyll, in consequence of a grant
made to them by Queen Anne. It is believed that their claim will be dismissed, and that Little
Colonsay will also be sold for the advantage of Macquarry's creditors. What think you of purchasing
this island, and endowing a school or college there, the master to be a clergyman of the Church
of England? How venerable would such an institution make the name of DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON in
the Hebrides! I have, like yourself, a wonderful pleasure in recollecting our travels in those
islands. The pleasure is, I think, greater than it reasonably should be, considering that we
had not much either of beauty or elegance to charm our imaginations, or of rude novelty to
astonish. Let us, by all means, have another expedition. I shrink a little from our scheme
of going up the Baltick[393]. I am sorry you have already been in Wales; for I wish to see
it. Shall we go to Ireland, of which I have seen but little? We shall try to strike out a plan
when we are at Ashbourne. Your letter, dated Sept. 6, was not at this place till this day,
Thursday, Sept. 11; and I hope you will be here before this is at Carlisle[394]. However, what
you have not going, you may have returning; and as I believe I shall not love you less after
our interview, it will then be as true as it is now, that I set a very high value upon your
friendship, and count your kindness as one of the chief felicities of my life. Do not fancy
that an intermission of writing is a decay of kindness. No man is always in a disposition to
write; nor has any man at all times something to say.

'That distrust which intrudes so often on your mind is a mode of melancholy, which, if it be
the business of a wise man to be happy, it is foolish to indulge; and if it be a duty to preserve
our faculties entire for their proper use, it is criminal. Suspicion is very often an useless
pain. From that, and all other pains, I wish you free and safe; for I am, dear Sir,

'Most affectionately yours,

'SAM.

On Monday, September 15, Dr. Johnson observed, that every body commended such parts of his
Journey to the Western Islands, as were in their own way. 'For instance, (said he,) Mr. Jackson
(the all-knowing)[399] told me there was more good sense upon trade in it, than he should hear
in the House of Commons in a year, except from Burke.

While we sat basking in the sun upon a seat here, I introduced a common subject of complaint,
the very small salaries which many curates have, and I maintained, 'that no man should be invested
with the character of a clergyman, unless he has a security for such an income as will enable
him to appear respectable; that, therefore, a clergyman should not be allowed to have a curate,
unless he gives him a hundred pounds a year; if he cannot do that, let him perform the duty
himself.' JOHNSON. 'To be sure, Sir, it is wrong that any clergyman should be without a reasonable
income; but as the church revenues were sadly diminished at the Reformation, the clergy who
have livings cannot afford, in many instances, to give good salaries to curates, without leaving
themselves too little; and, if no curate were to be permitted unless he had a hundred pounds
a year, their number would be very small, which would be a disadvantage, as then there would
not be such choice in the nursery for the church, curates being candidates for the higher ecclesiastical
offices, according to their merit and good behaviour.' He explained the system of the English
Hierarchy exceedingly well. 'It is not thought fit (said he) to trust a man with the care of
a parish till he has given proof as a curate that he shall deserve such a trust.' This is an
excellent theory; and if the practice were according to it, the Church of England would be
admirable indeed. However, as I have heard Dr. Johnson observe as to the Universities, bad
practice does not infer that the constitution is bad[402].

According to Johnson's manuscript it began thus after the text, What shall I do to be saved?[411]--

'These were the words with which the keeper, to whose custody Paul and Silas were committed
by their prosecutors, addressed his prisoners, when he saw them freed from their bonds by the
perceptible agency of divine favour, and was, therefore, irresistibly convinced that they were
not offenders against the laws, but martyrs to the truth.'

Dr. Johnson was so good as to mark for me with his own hand, on a copy of this sermon which
is now in my possession, such passages as were added by Dr. Dodd. They are not many: whoever
will take the trouble to look at the printed copy, and attend to what I mention, will be satisfied
of this.

There is a short introduction by Dr. Dodd, and he also inserted this sentence, 'You see with
what confusion and dishonour I now stand before you;--no more in the pulpit of instruction,
but on this humble seat with yourselves.' The notes are entirely Dodd's own, and Johnson's
writing ends at the words, 'the thief whom he pardoned on the cross[412].' What follows was
supplied by Dr. Dodd himself[413]. Here also my friend marked the variations on a copy of that
piece now in my possession. Dodd inserted, 'I never knew or attended to the calls of frugality,
or the needful minuteness of painful oeconomy;' and in the next sentence he introduced the
words which I distinguish by Italicks; 'My life for some few unhappy years past has been dreadfully
erroneous.' Johnson's expression was hypocritical; but his remark on the margin is 'With this
he said he could not charge himself.'

Having thus authentically settled what part of the Occasional Papers, concerning Dr. Dodd's
miserable situation, came from the pen of Johnson, I shall proceed to present my readers with
my record of the unpublished writings relating to that extraordinary and interesting matter.

       *       *       *       *       *

'You are too conversant in the world to need the slightest hint from me, of what infinite utility
the Speech[415] on the aweful day has been to me. I experience, every hour, some good effect
from it. I am sure that effects still more salutary and important must follow from your kind
and intended favour. I will labour--GOD being my helper,--to do justice to it from the pulpit.

'I confess the crime, and own the enormity of its consequences, and the danger of its example.
Nor have I the confidence to petition for impunity; but humbly hope, that publick security
may be established, without the spectacle of a clergyman dragged through the streets, to a
death of infamy, amidst the derision of the profligate and profane; and that justice may be
satisfied with irrevocable exile, perpetual disgrace, and hopeless penury.

'My life, Sir, has not been useless to mankind. I have benefited many. But my offences against
GOD are numberless, and I have had little time for repentance. Preserve me, Sir, by your prerogative
of mercy, from the necessity of appearing unprepared at that tribunal, before which Kings and
Subjects must stand at last together. Permit me to hide my guilt in some obscure corner of
a foreign country, where, if I can ever attain confidence to hope that my prayers will be heard,
they shall be poured with all the fervour of gratitude for the life and happiness of your Majesty.

'SIR,

'Since the conviction and condemnation of Dr. Dodd, I have had, by the intervention of a friend,
some intercourse with him, and I am sure I shall lose nothing in your opinion by tenderness
and commiseration. Whatever be the crime, it is not easy to have any knowledge of the delinquent,
without a wish that his life may be spared; at least when no life has been taken away by him.
I will, therefore, take the liberty of suggesting some reasons for which I wish this unhappy
being to escape the utmost rigour of his sentence.

'He is, so far as I can recollect, the first clergyman of our church who has suffered publick
execution for immorality; and I know not whether it would not be more for the interest of religion
to bury such an offender in the obscurity of perpetual exile, than to expose him in a cart,
and on the gallows, to all who for any reason are enemies to the clergy.

'The supreme power has, in all ages, paid some attention to the voice of the people; and that
voice does not least deserve to be heard, when it calls out for mercy. There is now a very
general desire that Dodd's life should be spared. More is not wished; and, perhaps, this is
not too much to be granted.

'If you, Sir, have any opportunity of enforcing these reasons, you may, perhaps, think them
worthy of consideration: but whatever you determine, I most respectfully intreat that you will
be pleased to pardon for this intrusion, Sir,

'Your most obedient

'And most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

It has been confidently circulated, with invidious remarks, that to this letter no attention
whatever was paid by Mr. Jenkinson (afterwards Earl of Liverpool[416]), and that he did not
even deign to shew the common civility of owning the receipt of it. I could not but wonder
at such conduct in the noble Lord, whose own character and just elevation in life, I thought,
must have impressed him with all due regard for great abilities and attainments. As the story
had been much talked of, and apparently from good authority, I could not but have animadverted
upon it in this work, had it been as was alleged; but from my earnest love of truth, and having
found reason to think that there might be a mistake, I presumed to write to his Lordship, requesting
an explanation; and it is with the sincerest pleasure that I am enabled to assure the world,
that there is no foundation for it, the fact being, that owing to some neglect, or accident,
Johnson's letter never came to Lord Hawkesbury's hands. For his reputation, which no man can
give to himself, those who conferred it are to answer. Of his publick ministry the means of
judging were sufficiently attainable. He must be allowed to preach well, whose sermons strike
his audience with forcible conviction. Of his life, those who thought it consistent with his
doctrine, did not originally form false notions. He was at first what he endeavoured to make
others; but the world broke down his resolution, and he in time ceased to exemplify his own
instructions.

'Let those who are tempted to his faults, tremble at his punishment; and those whom he impressed
from the pulpit with religious sentiments, endeavour to confirm them, by considering the regret
and self-abhorrence with which he reviewed in prison his deviations from rectitude.'

Johnson gave us this evening, in his happy discriminative manner, a portrait of the late Mr.
Fitzherbert, of Derbyshire. 'There was (said he) no sparkle, no brilliancy in Fitzherbert;
but I never knew a man who was so generally acceptable[417]. He made every body quite easy,
overpowered nobody by the superiority of his talents, made no man think worse of himself by
being his rival, seemed always to listen, did not oblige you to hear much from him, and did
not oppose what you said. Every body liked him; but he had no friend, as I understand the word,
nobody with whom he exchanged intimate thoughts[418]. People were willing to think well of
every thing about him. A gentleman was making an affected rant, as many people do, of great
feelings about "his dear son," who was at school near London; how anxious he was lest he might
be ill, and what he would give to see him. "Can't you (said Fitzherbert,) take a post-chaise
and go to him." This, to be sure, finished the affected man, but there was not much in it[419].
However, this was circulated as wit for a whole winter, and I believe part of a summer too;
a proof that he was no very witty man. He was an instance of the truth of the observation,
that a man will please more upon the whole by negative qualities than by positive; by never
offending, than by giving a great deal of delight. Johnson, upon repeated occasions, while
I was at Ashbourne, talked slightingly of Hamilton. He said there was no power of thinking
in his verses, nothing that strikes one, nothing better than what you generally find in magazines;
and that the highest praise they deserved was, that they were very well for a gentleman to
hand about among his friends. He said the imitation of Ne sit ancillae tibi amor[424], &c.
was too solemn; he read part of it at the beginning. He read the beautiful pathetick song,
Ah the poor shepherd's mournful fate, and did not seem to give attention to what I had been
used to think tender elegant strains, but laughed at the rhyme, in Scotch pronunciation, wishes
and blushes[425], reading wushes--and there he stopped. He owned that the epitaph on Lord Newhall
was pretty well done. He read the Inscription in a Summer-house, and a little of the imitations
of Horace's Epistles; but said he found nothing to make him desire to read on. When I urged
that there were some good poetical passages in the book. 'Where (said he,) will you find so
large a collection without some?' I thought the description of Winter might obtain his approbation:

'See[426] Winter, from the frozen north Drives his iron chariot forth! His grisly hand in icy
chains Fair Tweeda's silver flood constrains,' &c.

He asked why an 'iron chariot'? and said 'icy chains' was an old image[427]. I was struck with
the uncertainty of taste, and somewhat sorry that a poet whom I had long read with fondness,
was not approved by Dr. Johnson. I comforted myself with thinking that the beauties were too
delicate for his robust perceptions. Garrick maintained that he had not a taste for the finest
productions of genius: but I was sensible, that when he took the trouble to analyse critically,
he generally convinced us that he was right.

I mentioned to Dr. Johnson, that David Hume's persisting in his infidelity, when he was dying,
shocked me much. JOHNSON. 'Why should it shock you, Sir? Hume owned he had never read the New
Testament with attention. Here then was a man, who had been at no pains to inquire into the
truth of religion, and had continually turned his mind the other way. It was not to be expected
that the prospect of death would alter his way of thinking, unless GOD should send an angel
to set him right.' I said, I had reason to believe that the thought of annihilation gave Hume
no pain. JOHNSON. 'It was not so, Sir[432]. He had a vanity in being thought easy. It is more
probable that he should assume an appearance of ease, than that so very improbable a thing
should be, as a man not afraid of going (as, in spite of his delusive theory, he cannot be
sure but he may go,) into an unknown state, and not being uneasy at leaving all he knew. But
I thought, that the gloom of uncertainty in solemn religious speculation, being mingled with
hope, was yet more consolatory than the emptiness of infidelity. A man can live in thick air,
but perishes in an exhausted receiver.

He had this evening, partly, I suppose, from the spirit of contradiction to his Whig friend,
a violent argument with Dr. Taylor, as to the inclinations of the people of England at this
time towards the Royal Family of Stuart. He grew so outrageous as to say, 'that, if England
were fairly polled, the present King would be sent away to-night, and his adherents hanged
to-morrow.' Taylor, who was as violent a Whig as Johnson was a Tory, was roused by this to
a pitch of bellowing. He denied, loudly, what Johnson said; and maintained, that there was
an abhorrence against the Stuart family, though he admitted that the people were not much attached
to the present King[439]. JOHNSON. 'Sir, the state of the country is this: the people knowing
it to be agreed on all hands that this King has not the hereditary right to the crown, and
there being no hope that he who has it can be restored, have grown cold and indifferent upon
the subject of loyalty, and have no warm attachment to any King. They would not, therefore,
risk any thing to restore the exiled family. They would not give twenty shillings a piece to
bring it about. But, if a mere vote could do it, there would be twenty to one; at least, there
would be a very great majority of voices for it. For, Sir, you are to consider, that all those
who think a King has a right to his crown, as a man has to his estate, which is the just opinion,
would be for restoring the King who certainly has the hereditary right, could he be trusted
with it; in which there would be no danger now, when laws and every thing else are so much
advanced: and every King will govern by the laws. And you must also consider, Sir, that there
is nothing on the other side to oppose to this; for it is not alleged by any one that the present
family has any inherent right[440]: so that the Whigs could not have a contest between two rights.'

Dr. Taylor admitted, that if the question as to hereditary right were to be tried by a poll
of the people of England, to be sure the abstract doctrine would be given in favour of the
family of Stuart; but he said, the conduct of that family, which occasioned their expulsion,
was so fresh in the minds of the people, that they would not vote for a restoration. Dr. Johnson,
I think, was contented with the admission as to the hereditary right, leaving the original
point in dispute, viz. what the people upon the whole would do, taking in right and affection;
for he said, people were afraid of a change, even though they think it right. Dr. Taylor said
something of the slight foundation of the hereditary right, of the house of Stuart. 'Sir, (said
Johnson,) the house of Stuart succeeded to the full right of both the houses of York and Lancaster,
whose common source had the undisputed right. A right to a throne is like a right to any thing
else. Possession is sufficient, where no better right can be shown. I am not very conversant
with mechanicks; but the simplicity of this machine, and its multiplied operations, struck
me with an agreeable surprize. I had learnt from Dr. Johnson, during this interview, not to
think with a dejected indifference of the works of art, and the pleasures of life, because
life is uncertain and short; but to consider such indifference as a failure of reason, a morbidness
of mind; for happiness should be cultivated as much as we can, and the objects which are instrumental
to it should be steadily considered as of importance[462], with a reference not only to ourselves,
but to multitudes in successive ages. Though it is proper to value small parts, as

'Sands make the mountain, moments make the year[463];'

yet we must contemplate, collectively, to have a just estimation of objects. One moment's being
uneasy or not, seems of no consequence; yet this may be thought of the next, and the next,
and so on, till there is a large portion of misery. In the same way one must think of happiness,
of learning, of friendship. We cannot tell the precise moment when friendship is formed. As
in filling a vessel drop by drop, there is at last a drop which makes it run over; so in a
series of kindnesses there is at last one which makes the heart run over. We must not divide
objects of our attention into minute parts, and think separately of each part. It is by contemplating
a large mass of human existence, that a man, while he sets a just value on his own life, does
not think of his death as annihilating all that is great and pleasing in the world, as if actually
contained in his mind, according to Berkeley's reverie[464]. If his imagination be not sickly
and feeble, it 'wings its distant way[465]' far beyond himself, and views the world in unceasing
activity of every sort. It must be acknowledged, however, that Pope's plaintive reflection,
that all things would be as gay as ever, on the day of his death, is natural and common[466].
We are apt to transfer to all around us our own gloom, without considering that at any given
point of time there is, perhaps, as much youth and gaiety in the world as at another. Before
I came into this life, in which I have had so many pleasant scenes, have not thousands and
ten thousands of deaths and funerals happened, and have not families been in grief for their
nearest relations? But have those dismal circumstances at all affected me? Why then should
the gloomy scenes which I experience, or which I know, affect others? Let us guard against
imagining that there is an end of felicity upon earth, when we ourselves grow old, or are unhappy.
Perhaps there may be something in the stores of Nature which could do this. I have thought
of a pulley to raise me gradually; but that would give me pain, as it would counteract my internal
inclination. I would have something that can dissipate the vis inertiae, and give elasticity
to the muscles. As I imagine that the human body may be put, by the operation of other substances,
into any state in which it has ever been; and as I have experienced a state in which rising
from bed was not disagreeable, but easy, nay, sometimes agreeable; I suppose that this state
may be produced, if we knew by what. We can heat the body, we can cool it; we can give it tension
or relaxation; and surely it is possible to bring it into a state in which rising from bed
will not be a pain.

Johnson observed, that 'a man should take a sufficient quantity of sleep, which Dr. Mead says
is between seven and nine hours.' I told him, that Dr. Cullen said to me, that a man should
not take more sleep than he can take at once. JOHNSON. 'This rule, Sir, cannot hold in all
cases; for many people have their sleep broken by sickness; and surely, Cullen would not have
a man to get up, after having slept but an hour.

He was much diverted with an article which I shewed him in the Critical Review of this year,
giving an account of a curious publication, entitled, A Spiritual Diary and Soliloquies, by
John Rutty, M.D. Dr. Rutty was one of the people called Quakers, a physician of some eminence
in Dublin, and authour of several works[480]. This Diary, which was kept from 1753 to 1775,
the year in which he died, and was now published in two volumes octavo, exhibited, in the simplicity
of his heart, a minute and honest register of the state of his mind; which, though frequently
laughable enough, was not more so than the history of many men would be, if recorded with equal
fairness.

The following specimens were extracted by the Reviewers:--

'Tenth month, 1753.
23. Indulgence in bed an hour too long.
Twelfth month, 17. An hypochondriack obnubilation from wind
  and indigestion.
Ninth month, 28. An over-dose of whisky.
29. A dull, cross, cholerick day.
First month, 1757--22. A little swinish at dinner and repast.
31. Dogged on provocation.
Second month, 5. Very dogged or snappish.
14. Snappish on fasting.
26. Cursed snappishness to those under me, on a bodily
  indisposition.
Third month, 11. On a provocation, exercised a dumb resentment
  for two days, instead of scolding.
22. Scolded too vehemently.
23. Dogged again.
Fourth month, 29. Mechanically and sinfully dogged.'

Johnson laughed heartily at this good Quietist's self-condemning minutes; particularly at his
mentioning, with such a serious regret, occasional instances of 'swinishness in eating, and
doggedness of temper[481].' He thought the observations of the Critical Reviewers upon the
importance of a man to himself so ingenious and so well expressed, that I shall here introduce
them.

After observing, that 'There are few writers who have gained any reputation by recording their
own actions,' they say:--

'We may reduce the egotists to four classes. In the first we have Julius Caesar: he relates
his own transactions; but he relates them with peculiar grace and dignity, and his narrative
is supported by the greatness of his character and atchievements. In the second class we have
Marcus Antoninus: this writer has given us a series of reflections on his own life; but his
sentiments are so noble, his morality so sublime, that his meditations are universally admired.
In the third class we have some others of tolerable credit, who have given importance to their
own private history by an intermixture of literary anecdotes, and the occurrences of their
own times: the celebrated Huetius has published an entertaining volume upon this plan, "De
rebus ad eum pertinentibus[482]." In the fourth class we have the journalists, temporal and
spiritual: Elias Ashmole, William Lilly, George Whitefield, John Wesley, and a thousand other
old women and fanatick writers of memoirs and meditations.'

I mentioned to him that Dr. Hugh Blair, in his lectures on Rhetorick and Belles Lettres, which
I heard him deliver at Edinburgh, had animadverted on the Johnsonian style as too pompous;
and attempted to imitate it, by giving a sentence of Addison in The Spectator, No. 411, in
the manner of Johnson. When treating of the utility of the pleasures of imagination in preserving
us from vice, it is observed of those 'who know not how to be idle and innocent,' that 'their
very first step out of business is into vice or folly;' which Dr. Blair supposed would have
been expressed in The Rambler thus: 'Their very first step out of the regions of business is
into the perturbation of vice, or the vacuity of folly[483].' JOHNSON. 'Sir, these are not
the words I should have used. No, Sir; the imitators of my style have not hit it. Miss Aikin
has done it the best; for she has imitated the sentiment as well as the diction[484].' I intend,
before this work is concluded[485], to exhibit specimens of imitation of my friend's style
in various modes; some caricaturing or mimicking it, and some formed upon it, whether intentionally
or with a degree of similarity to it, of which, perhaps, the writers were not conscious.

In Baretti's Review, which he published in Italy, under the title of Frusta Letteraria[486],
it is observed, that Dr. Robertson the historian had formed his style upon that of Il celebre
Samuele Johnson. My friend himself was of that opinion; for he once said to me, in a pleasant
humour, 'Sir, if Robertson's style be faulty, he owes it to me; that is, having too many words,
and those too big ones[487].'

I read to him a letter which Lord Monboddo had written to me, containing some critical remarks
upon the style of his Journey to the Western Islands of Scotland. His Lordship praised the
very fine passage upon landing at Icolmkill[488]; but his own style being exceedingly dry and
hard, he disapproved of the richness of Johnson's language, and of his frequent use of metaphorical
expressions. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, this criticism would be just, if in my style, superfluous
words, or words too big for the thoughts, could be pointed out[489]; but this I do not believe
can be done. For instance; in the passage which Lord Monboddo admires, 'We were now treading
that illustrious region[490],' the word illustrious, contributes nothing to the mere narration;
for the fact might be told without it: but it is not, therefore, superfluous; for it wakes
the mind to peculiar attention, where something of more than usual importance is to be presented.
"Illustrious!"--for what? and then the sentence proceeds to expand the circumstances connected
with Iona. And, Sir, as to metaphorical expression, that is a great excellence in style, when
it is used with propriety, for it gives you two ideas for one;--conveys the meaning more luminously,
and generally with a perception of delight.'

He told me, that he had been asked to undertake the new edition of the Biographia Britannica,
but had declined it; which he afterwards said to me he regretted[491]. Melancholy, like 'great
wit,' may be 'near allied to madness[494];' but there is, in my opinion, a distinct separation
between them. When he talked of madness, he was to be understood as speaking of those who were
in any great degree disturbed, or as it is commonly expressed, 'troubled in mind.' Some of
the ancient philosophers held, that all deviations from right reason were madness; and whoever
wishes to see the opinions both of ancients and moderns upon this subject, collected and illustrated
with a variety of curious facts, may read Dr. Arnold's very entertaining work[495].

Johnson said, 'A madman loves to be with people whom he fears; not as a dog fears the lash;
but of whom he stands in awe.' I was struck with the justice of this observation. To be with
those of whom a person, whose mind is wavering and dejected, stands in awe, represses and composes
an uneasy tumult of spirits, and consoles him with the contemplation of something steady, and
at least comparatively great.

He added, 'Madmen are all sensual in the lower stages of the distemper. They are eager for
gratifications to sooth their minds, and divert their attention from the misery which they
suffer: but when they grow very ill, pleasure is too weak for them, and they seek for pain[496].
Employment, Sir, and hardships, prevent melancholy. I own, however, that to consider it as
a duty to reside on a family estate is a prejudice; for we must consider, that working-people
get employment equally, and the produce of land is sold equally, whether a great family resides
at home or not; and if the rents of an estate be carried to London, they return again in the
circulation of commerce; nay, Sir, we must perhaps allow, that carrying the rents to a distance
is a good, because it contributes to that circulation. We must, however, allow, that a well-regulated
great family may improve a neighbourhood in civility and elegance, and give an example of good
order, virtue, and piety; and so its residence at home may be of much advantage. But if a great
family be disorderly and vicious, its residence at home is very pernicious to a neighbourhood.
There is not now the same inducement to live in the country as formerly; the pleasures of social
life are much better enjoyed in town; and there is no longer in the country that power and
influence in proprietors of land which they had in old times, and which made the country so
agreeable to them. The Laird of Auchinleck now is not near so great a man as the Laird of Auchinleck
was a hundred years ago[499].

I told him, that one of my ancestors never went from home without being attended by thirty
men on horseback. Johnson's shrewdness and spirit of enquiry were exerted upon every occasion.
'Pray (said he,) how did your ancestor support his thirty men and thirty horses, when he went
at a distance from home, in an age when there was hardly any money in circulation?' I suggested
the same difficulty to a friend, who mentioned Douglas's going to the Holy Land with a numerous
train of followers. Douglas could, no doubt, maintain followers enough while living upon his
own lands, the produce of which supplied them with food; but he could not carry that food to
the Holy Land; and as there was no commerce by which he could be supplied with money, how could
he maintain them in foreign countries? I reminded him, that the Laird of Auchinleck had an
elegant house, in front of which he could ride ten miles forward upon his own territories,
upon which he had upwards of six hundred people attached to him; that the family seat was rich
in natural romantick beauties of rock, wood, and water; and that in my 'morn of life[502],'
I had appropriated the finest descriptions in the ancient Classicks to certain scenes there,
which were thus associated in my mind. That when all this was considered, I should certainly
pass a part of the year at home, and enjoy it the more from variety, and from bringing with
me a share of the intellectual stores of the metropolis. JOHNSON. 'You must not indulge too
sanguine hopes, should you be called to our bar. I was told, by a very sensible lawyer, that
there are a great many chances against any man's success in the profession of the law; the
candidates are so numerous, and those who get large practice so few.

Johnson was by no means of opinion, that every man of a learned profession should consider
it as incumbent upon him, or as necessary to his credit, to appear as an authour. When in the
ardour of ambition for literary fame, I regretted to him one day that an eminent Judge had
nothing of it, and therefore would leave no perpetual monument of himself to posterity[510].

'My friend, the late Earl of Corke, had a great desire to maintain the literary character of
his family[512]: he was a genteel man, but did not keep up the dignity of his rank.

He thus characterised the Duke of Devonshire[527], grandfather of the present representative
of that very respectable family: 'He was not a man of superiour abilities, but he was a man
strictly faithful to his word. If, for instance, he had promised you an acorn, and none had
grown that year in his woods, he would not have contented himself with that excuse; he would
have sent to Denmark for it. So unconditional was he in keeping his word; so high as to the
point of honour.' This was a liberal testimony from the Tory Johnson to the virtue of a great
Whig nobleman. 'For instance, (said he,) if a Protestant objects to a Papist, "You worship
images;" the Papist can answer, "I do not insist on your doing it; you may be a very good Papist
without it: I do it only as a help to my devotion."' I said, the great article of Christianity
is the revelation of immortality. Johnson admitted it was.

Talking of the danger of being mortified by rejection, when making approaches to the acquaintance
of the great, I observed: 'I am, however, generally for trying, "Nothing venture, nothing have."'[540]
JOHNSON. 'Very true, Sir; but I have always been more afraid of failing, than hopeful of success.'
And, indeed, though he had all just respect for rank, no man ever less courted the favour of
the great.

I mentioned an old gentleman of our acquaintance whose memory was beginning to fail. JOHNSON.
'There must be a diseased mind, where there is a failure of memory at seventy. A man's head,
Sir, must be morbid, if he fails so soon.'[544] My friend, being now himself sixty-eight, might
think thus: but I imagine, that threescore and ten, the Psalmist's period of sound human life
in later ages, may have a failure, though there be no disease in the constitution. It was most
comfortable to me to experience, in Dr. Johnson's company, a relief from this uneasiness. His
steady vigorous mind held firm before me those objects which my own feeble and tremulous imagination
frequently presented, in such a wavering state, that my reason could not judge well of them.

He said, the dispute as to the comparative excellence of Homer or Virgil[552] was inaccurate.
'We must consider (said he) whether Homer was not the greatest poet, though Virgil may have
produced the finest poem. Mallet's Life of Bacon has no inconsiderable merit as an acute and
elegant dissertation relative to its subject; but Mallet's mind was not comprehensive enough
to embrace the vast extent of Lord Verulam's genius and research.

He found fault with me for using the phrase to make money. 'Don't you see (said he) the impropriety
of it? To make money is to coin it: you should say get money.' The phrase, however, is, I think,
pretty current[557]. But Johnson was at all times jealous of infractions upon the genuine English
language, and prompt to repress colloquial barbarisms; such as, pledging myself, for undertaking;
line, for department, or branch, as, the civil line, the banking line. He was particularly
indignant against the almost universal use of the word idea in the sense of notion or opinion,
when it is clear that idea can only signify something of which an image can be formed in the
mind[558]. We may have an idea or image of a mountain, a tree, a building; but we cannot surely
have an idea or image of an argument or proposition. That air, which instantly and irresistibly
excites in the Swiss, when in a foreign land, the maladie du pais, has, I am told, no intrinsick
power of sound. And I know from my own experience, that Scotch reels, though brisk, make me
melancholy, because I used to hear them in my early years, at a time when Mr. Pitt called for
soldiers 'from the mountains of the north,' and numbers of brave Highlanders were going abroad,
never to return[563]. Whereas the airs in The Beggar's Opera, many of which are very soft,
never fail to render me gay, because they are associated with the warm sensations and high
spirits of London. The feeling of languor[566], which succeeds the animation of gaiety, is
itself a very severe pain; and when the mind is then vacant, a thousand disappointments and
vexations rush in and excruciate. Will not many even of my fairest readers allow this to be
true? JOHNSON. 'Sir, you are to consider the intention of punishment in a future state. We
have no reason to be sure that we shall then be no longer liable to offend against GOD. We
do not know that even the angels are quite in a state of security; nay we know that some of
them have fallen. It may, therefore, perhaps be necessary, in order to preserve both men and
angels in a state of rectitude, that they should have continually before them the punishment
of those who have deviated from it; but we may hope that by some other means a fall from rectitude
may be prevented. Some of the texts of Scripture upon this subject are, as you observe, indeed
strong; but they may admit of a mitigated interpretation.' He talked to me upon this awful
and delicate question in a gentle tone, and as if afraid to be decisive[567]. I myself was
favoured with his correspondence concerning the brave Corsicans. And that Beckford could speak
it with a spirit of honest resolution even to his Majesty, as his 'faithful Lord-Mayor of London,'
is commemorated by the noble monument erected to him in Guildhall[574].'

The argument dictated by Dr. Johnson was as follows:--

'It must be agreed that in most ages many countries have had part of their inhabitants in a
state of slavery[575]; yet it may be doubted whether slavery can ever be supposed the natural
condition of man. It is impossible not to conceive that men in their original state were equal[576];
and very difficult to imagine how one would be subjected to another but by violent compulsion.
An individual may, indeed, forfeit his liberty by a crime; but he cannot by that crime forfeit
the liberty of his children[577]. What is true of a criminal seems true likewise of a captive.
A man may accept life from a conquering enemy on condition of perpetual servitude; but it is
very doubtful whether he can entail that servitude on his descendants; for no man can stipulate
without commission for another. The condition which he himself accepts, his son or grandson
perhaps would have rejected. If we should admit, what perhaps may with more reason be denied,
that there are certain relations between man and man which may make slavery necessary and just,
yet it can never be proved that he who is now suing for his freedom ever stood in any of those
relations. He is certainly subject by no law, but that of violence, to his present master;
who pretends no claim to his obedience, but that he bought him from a merchant of slaves, whose
right to sell him never was examined. It is said that, according to the constitutions of Jamaica,
he was legally enslaved; these constitutions are merely positive; and apparently injurious
to the rights of mankind, because whoever is exposed to sale is condemned to slavery without
appeal; by whatever fraud or violence he might have been originally brought into the merchant's
power. In our own time Princes have been sold, by wretches to whose care they were entrusted,
that they might have an European education; but when once they were brought to a market in
the plantations, little would avail either their dignity or their wrongs. The laws of Jamaica
afford a Negro no redress. His colour is considered as a sufficient testimony against him.
It is to be lamented that moral right should ever give way to political convenience. But if
temptations of interest are sometimes too strong for human virtue, let us at least retain a
virtue where there is no temptation to quit it. In the present case there is apparent right
on one side, and no convenience on the other. Inhabitants of this island can neither gain riches
nor power by taking away the liberty of any part of the human species. The sum of the argument
is this:--No man is by nature the property of another: The defendant is, therefore, by nature
free: The rights of nature must be some way forfeited before they can be justly taken away:
That the defendant has by any act forfeited the rights of nature we require to be proved; and
if no proof of such forfeiture can be given, we doubt not but the justice of the court will
declare him free.'

I record Dr. Johnson's argument fairly upon this particular case; where, perhaps, he was in
the right. But I beg leave to enter my most solemn protest against his general doctrine with
respect to the Slave Trade. For I will resolutely say--that his unfavourable notion of it was
owing to prejudice, and imperfect or false information. The wild and dangerous attempt which
has for some time been persisted in to obtain an act of our Legislature, to abolish so very
important and necessary a branch of commercial interest[578], must have been crushed at once,
had not the insignificance of the zealots who vainly took the lead in it, made the vast body
of Planters, Merchants, and others, whose immense properties are involved in that trade, reasonably
enough suppose that there could be no danger. The encouragement which the attempt has received
excites my wonder and indignation: and though some men of superiour abilities have supported
it; whether from a love of temporary popularity, when prosperous; or a love of general mischief,
when desperate, my opinion is unshaken. To abolish a status, which in all ages GOD has sanctioned,
and man has continued, would not only be robbery to an innumerable class of our fellow-subjects;
but it would be extreme cruelty to the African Savages, a portion of whom it saves from massacre,
or intolerable bondage in their own country, and introduces into a much happier state of life;
especially now when their passage to the West-Indies and their treatment there is humanely
regulated. To abolish that trade would be to

'--shut the gates of mercy on mankind[579]'.

Whatever may have passed elsewhere concerning it, the HOUSE OF LORDS is wise and independent:

Intaminatis fulget honoribus; Nec sumit aut ponit secures Arbitrio popularis aurae[580].

I have read, conversed, and thought much upon the subject, and would recommend to all who are
capable of conviction, an excellent Tract by my learned and ingenious friend John Ranby, Esq.,
entitled Doubts on the Abolition of the Slave Trade. To Mr. Ranby's Doubts I will apply Lord
Chancellor Hardwicke's expression in praise of a Scotch Law Book, called Dirletons Doubts;
HIS Doubts, (said his Lordship,) are better than most people's Certainties[581].

I talked of the corruption of the British Parliament, in which I alleged that any question,
however unreasonable or unjust, might be carried by a venal majority; and I spoke with high
admiration of the Roman Senate, as if composed of men sincerely desirous to resolve what they
should think best for their country[585]. My friend would allow no such character to the Roman
Senate; and he maintained that the British Parliament was not corrupt, and that there was no
occasion to corrupt its members; asserting, that there was hardly ever any question of great
importance before Parliament, any question in which a man might not very well vote either upon
one side or the other. He said there had been none in his time except that respecting America.

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Sept. 29, 1777.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'By the first post I inform you of my safe arrival at my own house, and that I had the comfort
of finding my wife and children all in good health.

'When I look back upon our late interview, it appears to me to have answered expectation better
than almost any scheme of happiness that I ever put in execution. My Journal is stored with
wisdom and wit[593]; and my memory is filled with the recollection of lively and affectionate
feelings, which now, I think, yield me more satisfaction than at the time when they were first
excited. I have experienced this upon other occasions. I shall be obliged to you if you will
explain it to me; for it seems wonderful that pleasure should be more vivid at a distance than
when near. I wish you may find yourself in a humour to do me this favour; but I flatter myself
with no strong hope of it; for I have observed, that unless upon very serious occasions, your
letters to me are not answers to those which I write[594].'

[I then expressed much uneasiness that I had mentioned to him the name of the gentleman[595]
who had told me the story so much to his disadvantage, the truth of which he had completely
refuted; for that my having done so might be interpreted as a breach of confidence, and offend
one whose society I valued:--therefore earnestly requesting that no notice might be taken of
it to anybody, till I should be in London, and have an opportunity to talk it over with the
gentleman.]

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'You will wonder, or you have wondered, why no letter has come from me. What you wrote at your
return, had in it such a strain of cowardly caution as gave me no pleasure. I could not well
do what you wished; I had no need to vex you with a refusal. I have seen Mr. ----[596], and
as to him have set all right, without any inconvenience, so far as I know, to you. Mrs. Thrale
had forgot the story. You may now be at ease.

'And at ease I certainly wish you, for the kindness that you showed in coming so long a journey
to see me. It was pity to keep you so long in pain, but, upon reviewing the matter, I do not
see what I could have done better than as I did.

'I hope you found at your return my dear enemy[597] and all her little people quite well, and
had no reason to repent of your journey. I think on it with great gratitude.

'I was not well when you left me at the Doctor's, and I grew worse; yet I staid on, and at
Lichfield was very ill. Travelling, however, did not make me worse; and when I came to London,
I complied with a summons to go to Brighthelmston, where I saw Beauclerk, and staid three days.

'Our CLUB has recommenced last Friday, but I was not there. Langton has another wench[598].
Mrs. Thrale is in hopes of a young brewer[599]. They got by their trade last year a very large
sum[600], and their expenses are proportionate.

'Mrs. Williams's health is very bad. And I have had for some time a very difficult and laborious
respiration; but I am better by purges, abstinence, and other methods. I am yet, however, much
behind hand in my health and rest.

'Dr. Blair's Sermons are now universally commended; but let him think that I had the honour
of first finding and first praising his excellencies. I did not stay to add my voice to that
of the publick[601].

'My dear friend, let me thank you once more for your visit; you did me great honour, and I
hope met with nothing that displeased you. I staid long at Ashbourne, not much pleased, yet
aukward at departing. I then went to Lichfield, where I found my friend at Stow-hill[602] very
dangerously diseased. Such is life. Let us try to pass it well, whatever it be, for there is
surely something beyond it.

'Well, now I hope all is well, write as soon as you can to, dear Sir, 'Your affectionate servant,
'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, Nov. 25, 1777.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON. 'Edinburgh, Nov. 29, 1777.

'My DEAR SIR,

'This day's post has at length relieved me from much uneasiness, by bringing me a letter from
you. I was, indeed, doubly uneasy;--on my own account and yours. I was very anxious to be secured
against any bad consequences from my imprudence in mentioning the gentleman's name who had
told me a story to your disadvantage; and as I could hardly suppose it possible, that you would
delay so long to make me easy, unless you were ill, I was not a little apprehensive about you.
You must not be offended when I venture to tell you that you appear to me to have been too
rigid upon this occasion. The "cowardly caution which gave you no pleasure," was suggested
to me by a friend here, to whom I mentioned the strange story and the detection of its falsity,
as an instance how one may be deceived by what is apparently very good authority. But, as I
am still persuaded, that as I might have obtained the truth, without mentioning the gentleman's
name, it was wrong in me to do it, I cannot see that you are just in blaming my caution. But
if you were ever so just in your disapprobation, might you not have dealt more tenderly with me?

'I went to Auchinleck about the middle of October, and passed some time with my father very
comfortably.

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am engaged in a criminal prosecution against a country schoolmaster, for indecent behaviour
to his female scholars. There is no statute against such abominable conduct; but it is punishable
at common law. I shall be obliged to you for your assistance in this extraordinary trial. I
ever am, my dear Sir,

'Your faithful humble servant,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

About this time I wrote to Johnson, giving him an account of the decision of the Negro cause,
by the court of Session, which by those who hold even the mildest and best regulated slavery
in abomination, (of which number I do not hesitate to declare that I am none,) should be remembered
with high respect, and to the credit of Scotland; for it went upon a much broader ground than
the case of Somerset, which was decided in England[603]; being truly the general question,
whether a perpetual obligation of service to one master in any mode should be sanctified by
the law of a free country. A negro, then called Joseph Knight, a native of Africa, who having
been brought to Jamaica in the usual course of the slave trade, and purchased by a Scotch gentleman
in that island, had attended his master to Scotland, where it was officiously suggested to
him that he would be found entitled to his liberty without any limitation. He accordingly brought
his action, in the course of which the advocates on both sides did themselves great honour.
Mr. Maclaurin has had the praise of Johnson, for his argument[604] in favour of the negro,
and Mr. Macconochie distinguished himself on the same side, by his ingenuity and extraordinary
research. Mr. Cullen, on the part of the master, discovered good information and sound reasoning;
in which he was well supported by Mr. James Ferguson, remarkable for a manly understanding,
and a knowledge both of books and of the world. But I cannot too highly praise the speech which
Mr. Henry Dundas generously contributed to the cause of the sooty stranger. Mr. Dundas's Scottish
accent[605], which has been so often in vain obtruded as an objection to his powerful abilities
in parliament, was no disadvantage to him in his own country. And I do declare, that upon this
memorable question he impressed me, and I believe all his audience, with such feelings as were
produced by some of the most eminent orations of antiquity. This testimony I liberally give
to the excellence of an old friend, with whom it has been my lot to differ very widely upon
many political topicks; yet I persuade myself without malice. A great majority of the Lords
of Session decided for the negro. But four of their number, the Lord President, Lord Elliock,
Lord Monboddo, and Lord Covington, resolutely maintained the lawfulness of a status, which
has been acknowledged in all ages and countries, and that when freedom flourished, as in old
Greece and Rome[606].

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'This is the time of the year in which all express their good wishes to their friends, and
I send mine to you and your family. May your lives be long, happy, and good. I have been much
out of order, but, I hope, do not grow worse.

'The crime of the schoolmaster whom you are engaged to prosecute is very great, and may be
suspected to be too common. In our law it would be a breach of the peace, and a misdemeanour:
that is, a kind of indefinite crime, not capital, but punishable at the discretion of the Court.
You cannot want matter: all that needs to be said will easily occur.

'Mr. Shaw[607], the author of the Gaelick Grammar, desires me to make a request for him to
Lord Eglintoune, that he may be appointed Chaplain to one of the new-raised regiments.

'All our friends are as they were; little has happened to them of either good or bad. Mrs.
Thrale ran a great black hair-dressing pin into her eye; but by great evacuation she kept it
from inflaming, and it is almost well. Miss Reynolds has been out of order, but is better.
Mrs. Williams is in a very poor state of health.

'If I should write on, I should, perhaps, write only complaints, and therefore I will content
myself with telling you, that I love to think on you, and to hear from you; and that I am,
dear Sir,

'Yours faithfully,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'December 27, 1777.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Jan. 8, 1778.

'DEAR SIR,

'Your congratulations upon a new year are mixed with complaint: mine must be so too. My wife
has for some time been very ill, having been confined to the house these three months by a
severe cold, attended with alarming symptoms.

[Here I gave a particular account of the distress which the person, upon every account most
dear to me, suffered; and of the dismal state of apprehension in which I now was: adding that
I never stood more in need of his consoling philosophy.]

'Did you ever look at a book written by Wilson, a Scotchman, under the Latin name of Volusenus,
according to the custom of literary men at a certain period. It is entitled De Animi Tranquillitate[608].
I earnestly desire tranquillity. Bona res quies: but I fear I shall never attain it: for, when
unoccupied, I grow gloomy, and occupation agitates me to feverishness.

'Your alarm at your lady's illness was reasonable, and not disproportionate to the appearance
of the disorder. I hope your physical friend's conjecture is now verified, and all fear of
a consumption at an end: a little care and exercise will then restore her. London is a good
air for ladies; and if you bring her hither, I will do for her what she did for me--I will
retire from my apartments, for her accommodation[609]. Behave kindly to her, and keep her cheerful.

'You always seem to call for tenderness. Know then, that in the first month of the present
year I very highly esteem and very cordially love you. I hope to tell you this at the beginning
of every year as long as we live; and why should we trouble ourselves to tell or hear it oftener?

'Tell Veronica, Euphemia, and Alexander, that I wish them, as well as their parents, many happy
years.

'You have ended the negro's cause much to my mind. Lord Auchinleck and dear Lord Hailes were
on the side of liberty. Lord Hailes's name reproaches me; but if he saw my languid neglect
of my own affairs, he would rather pity than resent my neglect of his. I hope to mend, ut et
mihi vivam et amicis.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your's affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'January 24, 1778.'

'My service to my fellow-traveller, Joseph[610].'

Johnson maintained a long and intimate friendship with Mr. Welch[611], who succeeded the celebrated
Henry Fielding as one of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for Westminster; kept a regular
office for the police[612] of that great district; and discharged his important trust, for
many years, faithfully and ably. Johnson, who had an eager and unceasing curiosity to know
human life in all its variety, told me, that he attended Mr. Welch in his office for a whole
winter, to hear the examinations of the culprits; but that he found an almost uniform tenor
of misfortune, wretchedness and profligacy. Mr. Welch's health being impaired, he was advised
to try the effect of a warm climate; and Johnson, by his interest with Mr. Chamier[613], procured
him leave of absence to go to Italy, and a promise that the pension or salary of two hundred
pounds a year, which Government allowed him[614], should not be discontinued. Mr. Welch accordingly
went abroad, accompanied by his daughter Anne, a young lady of uncommon talents and literature.

'TO SAUNDERS WELCH, ESQ., AT THE ENGLISH COFFEE-HOUSE, ROME.

'DEAR SIR,

'To have suffered one of my best and dearest friends to pass almost two years in foreign countries
without a letter, has a very shameful appearance of inattention. But the truth is, that there
was no particular time in which I had any thing particular to say; and general expressions
of good will, I hope, our long friendship is grown too solid to want.

'Of publick affairs you have information from the news-papers wherever you go, for the English
keep no secret; and of other things, Mrs. Nollekens informs you. My intelligence could therefore
be of no use; and Miss Nancy's letters made it unnecessary to write to you for information:
I was likewise for some time out of humour, to find that motion, and nearer approaches to the
sun, did not restore your health so fast as I expected. Of your health, the accounts have lately
been more pleasing; and I have the gratification of imaging to myself a length of years which
I hope you have gained, and of which the enjoyment will be improved by a vast accession of
images and observations which your journeys and various residence have enabled you to make
and accumulate. You have travelled with this felicity, almost peculiar to yourself, that your
companion is not to part from you at your journey's end; but you are to live on together, to
help each other's recollection, and to supply each other's omissions. The world has few greater
pleasures than that which two friends enjoy, in tracing back, at some distant time, those transactions
and events through which they have passed together. One of the old man's miseries is, that
he cannot easily find a companion able to partake with him of the past. You and your fellow-traveller
have this comfort in store, that your conversation will be not easily exhausted; one will always
be glad to say what the other will always be willing to hear.

'That you may enjoy this pleasure long, your health must have your constant attention. I suppose
you purpose to return this year. There is no need of haste: do not come hither before the height
of summer, that you may fall gradually into the inconveniences of your native clime. July seems
to be the proper month. August and September will prepare you for the winter. After having
travelled so far to find health, you must take care not to lose it at home; and I hope a little
care will effectually preserve it.

'Miss Nancy has doubtless kept a constant and copious journal. She must not expect to be welcome
when she returns, without a great mass of information. Let her review her journal often, and
set down what she finds herself to have omitted, that she may trust to memory as little as
possible, for memory is soon confused by a quick succession of things; and she will grow every
day less confident of the truth of her own narratives, unless she can recur to some written
memorials. If she has satisfied herself with hints, instead of full representations, let her
supply the deficiencies now while her memory is yet fresh, and while her father's memory may
help her. If she observes this direction, she will not have travelled in vain; for she will
bring home a book with which she may entertain herself to the end of life. If it were not now
too late, I would advise her to note the impression which the first sight of any thing new
and wonderful made upon her mind. Let her now set her thoughts down as she can recollect them;
for faint as they may already be, they will grow every day fainter.

'Perhaps I do not flatter myself unreasonably when I imagine that you may wish to know something
of me. I can gratify your benevolence with no account of health. The hand of time, or of disease,
is very heavy upon me. I pass restless and uneasy nights, harassed with convulsions of my breast,
and flatulencies at my stomach; and restless nights make heavy days. But nothing will be mended
by complaints, and therefore I will make an end. When we meet, we will try to forget our cares
and our maladies, and contribute, as we can, to the chearfulness of each other. If I had gone
with you, I believe I should have been better; but I do not know that it was in my power.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM, JOHNSON.'

'Feb. 3, 1778.'

This letter, while it gives admirable advice how to travel to the best advantage, and will
therefore be of very general use, is another eminent proof of Johnson's warm and affectionate
heart[615].

'TO DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 26, 1778.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Why I have delayed, for near a month, to thank you for your last affectionate letter, I cannot
say; for my mind has been in better health these three weeks than for some years past. I believe
I have evaded till I could send you a copy of Lord Hailes's opinion on the negro's cause, which
he wishes you to read, and correct any errours that there may be in the language; for, says
he, "we live in a critical, though not a learned age; and I seek to screen myself under the
shield of Ajax." I communicated to him your apology for keeping the sheets of his Annals so
long. He says, "I am sorry to see that Dr. Johnson is in a state of languor. Why should a sober
Christian, neither an enthusiast nor a fanatick, be very merry or very sad?" I envy his Lordship's
comfortable constitution: but well do I know that languor and dejection will afflict the best,
however excellent their principles. I am in possession of Lord Hailes's opinion in his own
hand-writing, and have had it for some time. My excuse then for procrastination must be, that
I wanted to have it copied; and I have now put that off so long, that it will be better to
bring it with me than send it, as I shall probably get you to look at it sooner, when I solicit
you in person.

'My wife, who is, I thank GOD, a good deal better, is much obliged to you for your very polite
and courteous offer of your apartment: but, if she goes to London, it will be best for her
to have lodgings in the more airy vicinity of Hyde-Park. I, however, doubt much if I shall
be able to prevail with her to accompany me to the metropolis; for she is so different from
you and me, that she dislikes travelling; and she is so anxious about her children, that she
thinks she should be unhappy if at a distance from them. She therefore wishes rather to go
to some country place in Scotland, where she can have them with her.

'I purpose being in London about the 20th of next month, as I think it creditable to appear
in the House of Lords as one of Douglas's Counsel, in the great and last competition between
Duke Hamilton and him[616].

       *       *       *       *       *

'I am sorry poor Mrs. Williams is so ill: though her temper is unpleasant, she has always been
polite and obliging to me. I wish many happy years to good Mr. Levett, who I suppose holds
his usual place at your breakfast table[617].

'I ever am, my dear Sir,

'Your affectionate humble servant,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

TO THE SAME.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 28, 1778.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'You are at present busy amongst the English poets, preparing, for the publick instruction
and entertainment, Prefaces, biographical and critical. It will not, therefore, be out of season
to appeal to you for the decision of a controversy which has arisen between a lady and me concerning
a passage in Parnell. That poet tells us, that his Hermit quitted his cell

"... to know the world by sight, To find if books or swains report it right; (For yet by swains
alone the world he knew, Whose feet came wand'ring o'er the nightly dew.)"

I maintain, that there is an inconsistency here; for as the Hermit's notions of the world were
formed from the reports both of books and swains, he could not justly be said to know by swains
alone. Be pleased to judge between us, and let us have your reasons[618].

'What do you say to Taxation no Tyranny, now, after Lord North's declaration, or confession,
or whatever else his conciliatory speech should be called[619]? I never differed from you in
politicks but upon two points,--the Middlesex Election[620], and the Taxation of the Americans
by the British Houses of Representatives[621]. There is a charm in the word Parliament, so
I avoid it. As I am a steady and a warm Tory, I regret that the King does not see it to be
better for him to receive constitutional supplies from his American subjects by the voice of
their own assemblies, where his Royal Person is represented, than through the medium of his
British subjects. I am persuaded that the power of the Crown, which I wish to increase, would
be greater when in contact with all its dominions, than if "the rays of regal bounty[622]"
were to "shine" upon America through that dense and troubled body, a modern British Parliament.
But, enough of this subject; for your angry voice at Ashbourne[623] upon it, still sounds aweful
"in my mind's ears[624]."

'MY DEAR SIR,

'The alarm of your late illness distressed me but a few hours; for on the evening of the day
that it reached me, I found it contradicted in The London Chronicle, which I could depend upon
as authentick concerning you, Mr. Strahan being the printer of it. I did not see the paper
in which "the approaching extinction of a bright luminary" was announced. Sir William Forbes
told me of it; and he says, he saw me so uneasy, that he did not give me the report in such
strong terms as he read it. He afterwards sent me a letter from Mr. Langton to him, which relieved
me much. I am, however, not quite easy, as I have not heard from you; and now I shall not have
that comfort before I see you, for I set out for London to-morrow before the post comes in.
JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, you must provide yourself with a good deal of extraneous matter, which
you are to produce occasionally, so as to fill up the time; for you must consider, that they
do not listen much. If you begin with the strength of your cause, it may be lost before they
begin to listen. When you catch a moment of attention, press the merits of the question upon
them.' He said, as to one point of the merits, that he thought 'it would be a wrong thing to
deprive the small landholders of the privilege of assessing themselves for making and repairing
the high roads; it was destroying a certain portion of liberty, without a good reason, which
was always a bad thing! When I mentioned this observation next day to Mr. Wilkes, he pleasantly
said, 'What! does he talk of liberty? Liberty is as ridiculous in his mouth as Religion in
mine!' Mr. Wilkes's advice, as to the best mode of speaking at the bar of the House of Commons,
was not more respectful towards the senate, than that of Dr. Johnson. 'Be as impudent as you
can, as merry as you can, and say whatever comes uppermost. Jack Lee[630] is the best heard
there of any Counsel; and he is the most impudent dog, and always abusing us.'

In my interview with Dr. Johnson this evening, I was quite easy, quite as his companion; upon
which I find in my Journal the following reflection: 'So ready is my mind to suggest matter
for dissatisfaction, that I felt a sort of regret that I was so easy. I missed that aweful
reverence with which I used to contemplate MR. SAMUEL JOHNSON, in the complex magnitude of
his literary, moral, and religious character. I have a wonderful superstitious love of mystery;
when, perhaps, the truth is, that it is owing to the cloudy darkness of my own mind. I should
be glad that I am more advanced in my progress of being, so that I can view Dr. Johnson with
a steadier and clearer eye. My dissatisfaction to-night was foolish. Would it not be foolish
to regret that we shall have less mystery in a future state? That we "now see in[631] a glass
darkly," but shall "then see face to face?"' This reflection, which I thus freely communicate,
will be valued by the thinking part of my readers, who may have themselves experienced a similar
state of mind.

Thomas a Kempis (he observed) must be a good book, as the world has opened its arms to receive
it. It is said to have been printed, in one language or other, as many times as there have
been months since it first came out[637]. I always was struck with this sentence in it: 'Be
not angry that you cannot make others as you wish them to be, since you cannot make yourself
as you wish to be[638].'

He said, 'I was angry with Hurd about Cowley, for having published a selection of his works:
but, upon better consideration, I think there is no impropriety in a man's publishing as much
as he chooses of any authour, if he does not put the rest out of the way. A man, for instance,
may print the Odes of Horace alone.' He seemed to be in a more indulgent humour, than when
this subject was discussed between him and Mr. Murphy[639].

When we were at tea and coffee, there came in Lord Trimlestown, in whose family was an ancient
Irish peerage, but it suffered by taking the generous side in the troubles of the last century[640].
He was a man of pleasing conversation, and was accompanied by a young gentleman, his son.

I mentioned that I had in my possession the Life of Sir Robert Sibbald, the celebrated Scottish
antiquary, and founder of the Royal College of Physicians at Edinburgh, in the original manuscript
in his own handwriting; and that it was I believed the most natural and candid account of himself
that ever was given by any man. As an instance, he tells that the Duke of Perth, then Chancellor
of Scotland, pressed him very much to come over to the Roman Catholick faith: that he resisted
all his Grace's arguments for a considerable time, till one day he felt himself, as it were,
instantaneously convinced, and with tears in his eyes ran into the Duke's arms, and embraced
the ancient religion; that he continued very steady in it for some time, and accompanied his
Grace to London one winter, and lived in his household; that there he found the rigid fasting
prescribed by the church very severe upon him; that this disposed him to reconsider the controversy,
and having then seen that he was in the wrong, he returned to Protestantism. I talked of some
time or other publishing this curious life. MRS. THRALE. 'I think you had as well let alone
that publication. To discover such weakness, exposes a man when he is gone.' JOHNSON. 'Nay,
it is an honest picture of human nature. How often are the primary motives of our greatest
actions as small as Sibbald's, for his re-conversion[641].' MRS. THRALE. 'But may they not
as well be forgotten?' JOHNSON. 'No, Madam, a man loves to review his own mind. That is the
use of a diary, or journal[642].' LORD TRIMLESTOWN. 'True, Sir. As the ladies love to see themselves
in a glass; so a man likes to see himself in his journal.' BOSWELL. 'A very pretty allusion.'
JOHNSON. 'Yes, indeed.' BOSWELL. 'And as a lady adjusts her dress before a mirror, a man adjusts
his character by looking at his journal.' I next year found the very same thought in Atterbury's
Funeral Sermon on Lady Cutts; where, having mentioned her Diary, he says, 'In this glass she
every day dressed her mind.' This is a proof of coincidence, and not of plagiarism; for I had
never read that sermon before. Some men relate what they think, as what they know; some men
of confused memories and habitual inaccuracy, ascribe to one man what belongs to another; and
some talk on, without thought or care. A few men are sufficient to broach falsehoods, which
are afterwards innocently diffused by successive relaters[644].'

Had he lived to read what Sir John Hawkins and Mrs. Piozzi have related concerning himself,
how much would he have found his observation illustrated. He would say, with a significant
look and decisive tone, 'It is not so. He is always obliged to go at a certain hour[650].

F. 'I have been looking at this famous antique marble dog of Mr. Jennings, valued at a thousand
guineas, said to be Alcibiades's dog.' JOHNSON. 'His tail then must be docked. That was the
mark of Alcibiades's dog[652].' E. 'A thousand guineas! The representation of no animal whatever
is worth so much, at this rate a dead dog would indeed be better than a living lion.' JOHNSON.
'Sir, it is not the worth of the thing, but of the skill in forming it which is so highly estimated.
Every thing that enlarges the sphere of human powers, that shews man he can do what he thought
he could not do, is valuable. The first man who balanced a straw upon his nose[653]; Johnson,
who rode upon three horses at a time[654]; in short, all such men deserved the applause of
mankind, not on account of the use of what they did, but of the dexterity which they exhibited.'
BOSWELL. 'Yet a misapplication of time and assiduity is not to be encouraged. Addison, in one
of his Spectators, commends the judgement of a King, who, as a suitable reward to a man that
by long perseverance had attained to the art of throwing a barleycorn through the eye of a
needle, gave him a bushel of barley.' JOHNSON. 'He must have been a King of Scotland, where
barley is scarce.' F. 'One of the most remarkable antique figures of an animal is the boar
at Florence.' JOHNSON. 'The first boar that is well made in marble, should be preserved as
a wonder. When men arrive at a facility of making boars well, then the workmanship is not of
such value, but they should however be preserved as examples, and as a greater security for
the restoration of the art, should it be lost.'

E. 'We hear prodigious[655] complaints at present of emigration[656]. 'You said, exportation
of men, like exportation of other commodities, makes more be produced. But a bounty is given
to encourage the exportation of corn[657], and no bounty is given for the exportation of men;
though, indeed, those who go, gain by it.' R. 'But the bounty on the exportation of corn is
paid at home.' E. 'That's the same thing.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir.' R. 'A man who stays at home,
gains nothing by his neighbours emigrating.' BOSWELL. 'I can understand that emigration may
be the cause that more people may be produced in a country; but the country will not therefore
be the more populous; for the people issue from it. It can only be said that there is a flow
of people. It is an encouragement to have children, to know that they can get a living by emigration.'
R. 'Yes, if there were an emigration of children under six years of age. But they don't emigrate
till they could earn their livelihood in some way at home.' C. 'It is remarkable that the most
unhealthy countries, where there are the most destructive diseases, such as Egypt and Bengal,
are the most populous.' JOHNSON. 'Countries which are the most populous have the most destructive
diseases. That is the true state of the proposition.' C. 'Holland is very unhealthy, yet it
is exceedingly populous.' JOHNSON. 'I know not that Holland is unhealthy. But its populousness
is owing to an influx of people from all other countries. Disease cannot be the cause of populousness,
for it not only carries off a great proportion of the people, but those who are left are weakened
and unfit for the purposes of increase.'

R. 'Mr. E., I don't mean to flatter, but when posterity reads one of your speeches in Parliament,
it will be difficult to believe that you took so much pains, knowing with certainty that it
could produce no effect, that not one vote would be gained by it[658].' E. 'Waiving your compliment
to me, I shall say in general, that it is very well worth while for a man to take pains to
speak well in Parliament. A man, who has vanity, speaks to display his talents; and if a man
speaks well, he gradually establishes a certain reputation and consequence in the general opinion,
which sooner or later will have its political reward. Besides, though not one vote is gained,
a good speech has its effect. Though an act which has been ably opposed passes into a law,
yet in its progress it is modelled, it is softened in such a manner, that we see plainly the
Minister has been told, that the Members attached to him are so sensible of its injustice or
absurdity from what they have heard, that it must be altered[659].' JOHNSON. 'And, Sir, there
is a gratification of pride. Though we cannot out-vote them we will out-argue them. They shall
not do wrong without its being shown both to themselves and to the world.' E. 'The House of
Commons is a mixed body. (I except the Minority, which I hold to be pure, [smiling] but I take
the whole House.) It is a mass by no means pure; but neither is it wholly corrupt, though there
is a large proportion of corruption in it. There are many members who generally go with the
Minister, who will not go all lengths. There are many honest well-meaning country gentleman
who are in parliament only to keep up the consequence of their families. Upon most of these
a good speech will have influence.' JOHNSON. 'We are all more or less governed by interest.
But interest will not make us do every thing. In a case which admits of doubt, we try to think
on the side which is for our interest, and generally bring ourselves to act accordingly. But
the subject must admit of diversity of colouring; it must receive a colour on that side. In
the House of Commons there are members enough who will not vote what is grossly unjust or absurd.
No, Sir, there must always be right enough, or appearance of right, to keep wrong in countenance.'
BOSWELL. 'There is surely always a majority in parliament who have places, or who want to have
them, and who therefore will be generally ready to support government without requiring any
pretext.' E. 'True, Sir; that majority will always follow

"Quo clamor vocat et turba, faventium[660]."'

BOSWELL. 'Well now, let us take the common phrase, Place-hunters. I thought they had hunted
without regard to any thing, just as their huntsmen, the Minister, leads, looking only to the
prey[661].' J. 'But taking your metaphor, you know that in hunting there are few so desperately
keen as to follow without reserve. Some do not choose to leap ditches and hedges and risk their
necks, or gallop over steeps, or even to dirty themselves in bogs and mire.' BOSWELL. 'It may
have been radically Teutonick; but English and High Dutch have no similarity to the eye, though
radically the same. Once, when looking into Low Dutch, I found, in a whole page, only one word
similar to English; stroem, like stream, and it signified tide'. E. 'I remember having seen
a Dutch Sonnet, in which I found this word, roesnopies. Nobody would at first think that this
could be English; but, when we enquire, we find roes, rose, and nopie, knob; so we have rosebuds'.
All travellers generally mean to tell truth; though Thicknesse observes, upon Smollet's account
of his alarming a whole town in France by firing a blunderbuss[662], and frightening a French
nobleman till he made him tie on his portmanteau[663], that he would be loth to say Smollet
had told two lies in one page; but he had found the only town in France where these things
could have happened[664]. Travellers must often be mistaken. In every thing, except where mensuration
can be applied, they may honestly differ. There is a very good story told of Sir Godfrey Kneller,
in his character of a Justice of the peace. A gentleman brought his servant before him, upon
an accusation of having stolen some money from him; but it having come out that he had laid
it purposely in the servant's way, in order to try his honesty, Sir Godfrey sent the master
to prison[669].' JOHNSON. 'To resist temptation once, is not a sufficient proof of honesty.
If a servant, indeed, were to resist the continued temptation of silver lying in a window,
as some people let it lye, when he is sure his master does not know how much there is of it,
he would give a strong proof of honesty. But this is a proof to which you have no right to
put a man. You know, humanly speaking, there is a certain degree of temptation, which will
overcome any virtue. Now, in so far as you approach temptation to a man, you do him an injury;
and, if he is overcome, you share his guilt.' P. 'And, when once overcome, it is easier for
him to be got the better of again.' BOSWELL. 'Yes, you are his seducer; you have debauched
him. I have known a man[670] resolved to put friendship to the test, by asking a friend to
lend him money merely with that view, when he did not want it.' JOHNSON. 'That is very wrong,
Sir. Your friend may be a narrow man, and yet have many good qualities: narrowness may be his
only fault. He entertained us with an account of a tragedy written by a Dr. Kennedy, (not the
Lisbon physician.) 'The catastrophe of it (said he) was, that a King, who was jealous of his
Queen with his prime-minister, castrated himself[672]. This tragedy was actually shewn about
in manuscript to several people, and, amongst others, to Mr. Fitzherbert, who repeated to me
two lines of the Prologue:

"Our hero's fate we have but gently touch'd; The fair might blame us, if it were less couch'd."

It is hardly to be believed what absurd and indecent images men will introduce into their writings,
without being sensible of the absurdity and indecency. I remember Lord Orrery told me, that
there was a pamphlet written against Sir Robert Walpole, the whole of which was an allegory
on the PHALLICK OBSCENITY. The Duchess of Buckingham asked Lord Orrery who this person was?
He answered he did not know. She said, she would send to Mr. Pulteney, who, she supposed, could
inform her. 'Sir, she has not read them: she shews none of this impetuosity to me: she does
not know Greek, and, I fancy, knows little Latin. She is willing you should think she knows
them; but she does not say she does[691].' BOSWELL. 'Mr. Harris, who was present, agreed with
her.' JOHNSON. 'Harris was laughing at her, Sir. Harris is a sound sullen scholar; he does
not like interlopers. Harris, however, is a prig, and a bad prig[692]. I looked into his book[693],
and thought he did not understand his own system.' BOSWELL. 'He says plain things in a formal
and abstract way, to be sure: but his method is good: for to have clear notions upon any subject,
we must have recourse to analytick arrangement.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is what every body does,
whether they will or no. But sometimes things may be made darker by definition. I see a cow,
I define her, Animal quadrupes ruminans cornutum. But a goat ruminates, and a cow may have
no horns. Cow is plainer.' BOSWELL. 'I think Dr. Franklin's definition of Man a good one--"A
tool-making animal."' JOHNSON. 'I allow there may be greater pleasure than from wine. I have
had more pleasure from your conversation, I have indeed; I assure you I have.' JOHNSON. 'When
we talk of pleasure, we mean sensual pleasure. When a man says, he had pleasure with a woman,
he does not mean conversation, but something of a very different nature. Philosophers tell
you, that pleasure is contrary to happiness. Gross men prefer animal pleasure. So there are
men who have preferred living among savages. Now what a wretch must he be, who is content with
such conversation as can be had among savages! You may remember an officer at Fort Augustus[696],
who had served in America, told us of a woman whom they were obliged to bind, in order to get
her back from savage life.' BOSWELL. 'She must have been an animal, a beast.' JOHNSON.

I looked into Lord Kames's Sketches of the History of Man; and mentioned to Dr. Johnson his
censure of Charles the Fifth, for celebrating his funeral obsequies in his life-time, which,
I told him, I had been used to think a solemn and affecting act[700]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, a
man may dispose his mind to think so of that act of Charles; but it is so liable to ridicule,
that if one man out of ten thousand laughs at it, he'll make the other nine thousand nine hundred
and ninety-nine laugh too.' I could not agree with him in this.

Sir John Pringle had expressed a wish that I would ask Dr. Johnson's opinion what were the
best English sermons for style. I took an opportunity to-day of mentioning several to him.--Atterbury?
JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, one of the best.' BOSWELL. Tillotson? JOHNSON. 'Why, not now. I should
not advise a preacher at this day to imitate Tillotson's style: though I don't know; I should
be cautious of objecting to what has been applauded by so many suffrages.--South is one of
the best, if you except his peculiarities, and his violence, and sometimes coarseness of language.--Seed
has a very fine style; but he is not very theological.--Jortin's sermons are very elegant.--Sherlock's
style too is very elegant, though he has not made it his principal study.--And you may add
Smallridge. All the latter preachers have a good style. Indeed, nobody now talks much of style:
every body composes pretty well.[701] There are no such unharmonious periods as there were
a hundred years ago. I should recommend Dr. Clarke's sermons, were he orthodox.[702] However,
it is very well known where he was not orthodox, which was upon the doctrine of the Trinity,
as to which he is a condemned heretick; so one is aware of it.' BOSWELL. 'I like Ogden's Sermons
on Prayer very much, both for neatness of style and subtilty of reasoning.' JOHNSON. 'I should
like to read all that Ogden has written.'[703] BOSWELL. 'What I wish to know is, what sermons
afford the best specimen of English pulpit eloquence.' JOHNSON. 'We have no sermons addressed
to the passions that are good for any thing; if you mean that kind of eloquence.' A CLERGYMAN:
(whose name I do not recollect.) 'Were not Dodd's sermons addressed to the passions?' JOHNSON.
We were all warmly interested for his success, and had contributed to it. However, we thought
there was no harm in having our joke, when he could not be hurt by it. I proposed that he should
be brought on to speak a Prologue upon the occasion; and I began to mutter fragments of what
it might be: as, that when now grown old, he was obliged to cry, 'Poor Tom's a-cold[705];'--that
he owned he had been driven from the stage by a Churchill, but that this was no disgrace, for
a Churchill[706] had beat the French;--that he had been satyrised as 'mouthing a sentence as
curs mouth a bone,' but he was now glad of a bone to pick.--'Nay, (said Johnson,) I would have
him to say,

"Mad Tom is come to see the world again[707]."'

He and I returned to town in the evening. Upon the road, I endeavoured to maintain, in argument,
that a landed gentleman is not under any obligation to reside upon his estate; and that by
living in London he does no injury to his country. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, he does no injury to
his country in general, because the money which he draws from it gets back again in circulation;
but to his particular district, his particular parish, he does an injury. All that he has to
give away is not given to those who have the first claim to it. And though I have said that
the money circulates back, it is a long time before that happens. Then, Sir, a man of family
and estate ought to consider himself as having the charge of a district, over which he is to
diffuse civility and happiness[708].'

Next day I found him at home in the morning. He praised Delany's Observations on Swift; said
that his book and Lord Orrery's might both be true, though one viewed Swift more, and the other
less favourably; and that, between both, we might have a complete notion of Swift[709].

Talking of a man's resolving to deny himself the use of wine, from moral and religious considerations,
he said, 'He must not doubt about it. When one doubts as to pleasure, we know what will be
the conclusion. I now no more think of drinking wine, than a horse does. Mr. Ramsay had lately
returned from Italy, and entertained us with his observations upon Horace's villa, which he
had examined with great care. I relished this much, as it brought fresh into my mind what I
had viewed with great pleasure thirteen years before. The Bishop, Dr. Johnson, and Mr. Cambridge,
joined with Mr. Ramsay, in recollecting the various lines in Horace relating to the subject.

Horace's journey to Brundusium being mentioned, Johnson observed, that the brook which he describes
is to be seen now, exactly as at that time,[713] and that he had often wondered how it happened,
that small brooks, such as this, kept the same situation for ages, notwithstanding earthquakes,
by which even mountains have been changed, and agriculture, which produces such a variation
upon the surface of the earth. CAMBRIDGE. 'A Spanish writer has this thought in a poetical
conceit. After observing that most of the solid structures of Rome are totally perished, while
the Tiber remains the same, he adds,

'Lo que era Firme huio solamente, Lo Fugitivo permanece y dura[714].'

JOHNSON. 'Sir, that is taken from Janus Vitalis:[715]

'... immota labescunt; Et quae perpetuo sunt agitata manent[716].'

The Bishop said, it appeared from Horace's writings that he was a cheerful contented man. JOHNSON.
'We have no reason to believe that, my Lord. Are we to think Pope was happy, because he says
so in his writings? We see in his writings what he wished the state of his mind to appear.
Dr. Young, who pined for preferment, talks with contempt of it in his writings, and affects
to despise every thing that he did not despise.'[717] BISHOP OF ST. ASAPH. 'He was like other
chaplains, looking for vacancies: but that is not peculiar to the clergy. I remember when I
was with the army,[718] after the battle of Lafeldt, the officers seriously grumbled that no
general was killed.' CAMBRIDGE. 'We may believe Horace more when he says,

"Romae Tibur amem, ventosus Tibure Romam[719];"

than when he boasts of his consistency:

"Me constare mihi scis, et decedere tristem, Quandocunque trahunt invisa negotia Romam[720]."'

BOSWELL. 'How hard is it that man can never be at rest.' RAMSAY. 'It is not in his nature to
be at rest. When he is at rest, he is in the worst state that he can be in; for he has nothing
to agitate him. He is then like the man in the Irish song,

"There liv'd a young man in Ballinacrazy. 'Literature is upon the growth, it is in its spring
in France. Here it is rather passee.' JOHNSON. 'Literature was in France long before we had
it. Paris was the second city for the revival of letters: Italy had it first, to be sure. What
have we done for literature, equal to what was done by the Stephani and others in France? Our
literature came to us through France. Caxton printed only two books, Chaucer and Gower, that
were not translations from the French; and Chaucer, we know, took much from the Italians. No,
Sir, if literature be in its spring in France, it is a second spring; it is after a winter.
We are now before the French in literature[729]; but we had it long after them. In England,
any man who wears a sword and a powdered wig is ashamed to be illiterate[730]. I believe it
is not so in France. Yet there is, probably, a great deal of learning in France, because they
have such a number of religious establishments; so many men who have nothing else to do but
to study. I do not know this; but I take it upon the common principles of chance. Where there
are many shooters, some will hit.'

We talked of old age[731]. 'Yes, my Lord.'

His Lordship mentioned a charitable establishment in Wales, where people were maintained, and
supplied with every thing, upon the condition of their contributing the weekly produce of their
labour; and he said, they grew quite torpid for want of property. JOHNSON. 'They have no object
for hope. Their condition cannot be better. It is rowing without a port.'

One of the company asked him the meaning of the expression in Juvenal, unius lacertae. JOHNSON.
'I think it clear enough; as much ground as one may have a chance to find a lizard upon.'

Commentators have differed as to the exact meaning of the expression by which the Poet intended
to enforce the sentiment contained in the passage where these words occur. 'The truth is, it
is impossible perfectly to translate poetry[741]. JOHNSON. 'He is objected to for his parentheses,
his involved clauses, and his want of harmony. But he is supported by his matter. It is, indeed,
owing to a plethory of matter that his style is so faulty[743]. Every substance, (smiling to
Mr. Harris[744],) has so many accidents.--To be distinct, we must talk analytically. If we
analyse language, we must speak of it grammatically; if we analyse argument, we must speak
of it logically.' GARRICK. 'Of all the translations that ever were attempted, I think Elphinston's
Martial the most extraordinary[745]. 'What! He reverses the course of Nature too: he was first
the gay butterfly, and then the creeping worm.' Johnson laughed loud and long at this expansion
and illustration of what he himself had told me. At last he burst forth, 'Subordination is
sadly broken down in this age. No man, now, has the same authority which his father had,--except
a gaoler. No master has it over his servants: it is diminished in our colleges; nay, in our
grammar-schools.' BOSWELL. 'What is the cause of this, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Why the coming in of
the Scotch,' (laughing sarcastically). BOSWELL. 'That is to say, things have been turned topsy
turvey.--But your serious cause.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, there are many causes, the chief of which
is, I think, the great increase of money. No man now depends upon the Lord of a Manour, when
he can send to another country, and fetch provisions. The shoe-black at the entry of my court
does not depend on me. I can deprive him but of a penny a day, which he hopes somebody else
will bring him; and that penny I must carry to another shoe-black[756], so the trade suffers
nothing. I have explained, in my Journey to the Hebrides, how gold and silver destroy feudal
subordination[757]. But, besides, there is a general relaxation of reverence. No son now depends
upon his father as in former times. Paternity used to be considered as of itself a great thing,
which had a right to many claims. That is, in general, reduced to very small bounds. He had
then begun to feel money in his purse, and did not know when he should have enough of it[766].'

On the subject of wealth, the proper use of it, and the effects of that art which is called
oeconomy, he observed: 'It is wonderful to think how men of very large estates not only spend
their yearly incomes, but are often actually in want of money. It is clear, they have not value
for what they spend. Lord Shelburne[767] told me, that a man of high rank, who looks into his
own affairs, may have all that he ought to have, all that can be of any use, or appear with
any advantage, for five thousand pounds a year. Therefore, a great proportion must go in waste;
and, indeed, this is the case with most people, whatever their fortune is.' BOSWELL. 'I have
no doubt, Sir, of this. But how is it? What is waste?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, breaking bottles,
and a thousand other things. Waste cannot be accurately told, though we are sensible how destructive
it is. OEconomy on the one hand, by which a certain income is made to maintain a man genteely,
and waste on the other, by which, on the same income, another man lives shabbily, cannot be
defined. As to the sailor, when you look down from the quarter deck to the space below, you
see the utmost extremity of human misery; such crouding, such filth, such stench[769]!' BOSWELL.
'Yet sailors are happy.' JOHNSON. 'They are happy as brutes are happy, with a piece of fresh
meat,--with the grossest sensuality. But, Sir, the profession of soldiers and sailors has the
dignity of danger. Mankind reverence those who have got over fear[770], which is so general
a weakness.' SCOTT. 'But is not courage mechanical, and to be acquired?' JOHNSON. 'Why yes,
Sir, in a collective sense. Soldiers consider themselves only as parts of a great machine[771].'
SCOTT. 'We find people fond of being sailors.' JOHNSON. 'I cannot account for that, any more
than I can account for other strange perversions of imagination.'

His abhorrence of the profession of a sailor was uniformly violent[772]; but in conversation
he always exalted the profession of a soldier. And yet I have, in my large and various collection
of his writings, a letter to an eminent friend, in which he expresses himself thus: 'My god-son
called on me lately. He is weary, and rationally weary, of a military life. If you can place
him in some other state, I think you may increase his happiness, and secure his virtue. A soldier's
time is passed in distress and danger, or in idleness and corruption.' Such was his cool reflection
in his study[773]; but whenever he was warmed and animated by the presence of company, he,
like other philosophers, whose minds are impregnated with poetical fancy, caught the common
enthusiasm for splendid renown[774].

He told us, that he had given Mrs. Montagu a catalogue of all Daniel Defoe's works of imagination;
most, if not all of which, as well as of his other works, he now enumerated, allowing a considerable
share of merit to a man, who, bred a tradesman, had written so variously and so well. Indeed,
his Robinson Crusoe is enough of itself to establish his reputation[777]. They now only work;
so, after all, they have gained; what they stole is clear gain to them; the confinement is
nothing. Every man who works is confined: the smith to his shop, the tailor to his garret.'
BOSWELL. 'And Lord Mansfield to his Court.' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Sir, you know the notion of confinement
may be extended, as in the song, "Every island is a prison[781]." There is, in Dodsley's Collection,
a copy of verses to the authour of that song[782].'

Smith's Latin verses on Pococke, the great traveller,[783] were mentioned. He repeated some
of them, and said they were Smith's best verses. He defied me, as he had once defied an actual
short-hand writer[786], and he made the experiment by reading slowly and distinctly a part
of Robertson's History of America, while I endeavoured to write it in my way of taking notes.
It was found that I had it very imperfectly; the conclusion from which was, that its excellence
was principally owing to a studied arrangement of words, which could not be varied or abridged
without an essential injury.

On Sunday, April 12, I found him at home before dinner; Dr. Dodd's poem entitled Thoughts in
Prison was lying upon his table. This appearing to me an extraordinary effort by a man who
was in Newgate for a capital crime, I was desirous to hear Johnson's opinion of it: to my surprize,
he told me he had not read a line of it. I took up the book and read a passage to him. JOHNSON.
'Pretty well, if you are previously disposed to like them.' I read another passage, with which
he was better pleased. He then took the book into his own hands, and having looked at the prayer
at the end of it, he said, 'What evidence is there that this was composed the night before
he suffered? I do not believe it.' He then read aloud where he prays for the King, &c. and
observed, 'Sir, do you think that a man the night before he is to be hanged cares for the succession
of a royal family[787]?--Though, he may have composed this prayer, then. A man who has been
canting all his life, may cant to the last[788].--And yet a man who has been refused a pardon
after so much petitioning, would hardly be praying thus fervently for the King.'

He and I, and Mrs. Williams, went to dine with the Reverend Dr. Percy. Talking of Goldsmith,
Johnson said, he was very envious[789]. I defended him, by observing that he owned it frankly
upon all occasions. JOHNSON. 'Sir, you are enforcing the charge. He had so much envy, that
he could not conceal it. He was so full of it that he overflowed. He talked of it to be sure
often enough. Now, Sir, what a man avows, he is not ashamed to think; though many a man thinks,
what he is ashamed to avow. We are all envious naturally[790]; but by checking envy, we get
the better of it.

Having impartially censured Mr. Pennant, as a Traveller in Scotland, let me allow him, from
authorities much better than mine, his deserved praise as an able Zoologist; and let me also
from my own understanding and feelings, acknowledge the merit of his London, which, though
said to be not quite accurate in some particulars, is one of the most pleasing topographical
performances that ever appeared in any language. Mr. Pennant, like his countrymen in general[801],
has the true spirit of a Gentleman. As a proof of it, I shall quote from his London the passage,
in which he speaks of my illustrious friend. 'I must by no means omit Bolt-court, the long
residence of Doctor SAMUEL JOHNSON, a man of the strongest natural abilities, great learning,
a most retentive memory, of the deepest and most unaffected piety and morality, mingled with
those numerous weaknesses and prejudices which his friends have kindly taken care to draw from
their dread abode[802]. I brought on myself his transient anger, by observing that in his tour
in Scotland, he once had "long and woeful experience of oats being the food of men in Scotland
as they were of horses in England."' It was a national reflection unworthy of him, and I shot
my bolt. In return he gave me a tender hug[803]. Con amore he also said of me 'The dog is a
Whig[804];' I admired the virtues of Lord Russell, and pitied his fall. I should have been
a Whig at the Revolution. There have been periods since, in which I should have been, what
I now am, a moderate Tory, a supporter, as far as my little influence extends, of a well-poised
balance between the crown and people: but should the scale preponderate against the Salus populi,
that moment may it be said 'The dog's a Whig!'

We had a calm after the storm, staid the evening and supped, and were pleasant and gay. But
Dr. Percy told me he was very uneasy at what had passed; for there was a gentleman there who
was acquainted with the Northumberland family, to whom he hoped to have appeared more respectable,
by shewing how intimate he was with Dr. Johnson, and who might now, on the contrary, go away
with an opinion to his disadvantage. He begged I would mention this to Dr. Johnson, which I
afterwards did. His observation upon it was, 'This comes of stratagem; had he told me that
he wished to appear to advantage before that gentleman, he should have been at the top of the
house, all the time.' He spoke of Dr. Percy in the handsomest terms. 'Then, Sir, (said I,)
may I be allowed to suggest a mode by which you may effectually counteract any unfavourable
report of what passed. I will write a letter to you upon the subject of the unlucky contest
of that day, and you will be kind enough to put in writing as an answer to that letter, what
you have now said, and as Lord Percy is to dine with us at General Paoli's soon, I will take
an opportunity to read the correspondence in his Lordship's presence.' This friendly scheme
was accordingly carried into execution without Dr. Percy's knowledge. Johnson's letter placed
Dr. Percy's unquestionable merit in the fairest point of view; and I contrived that Lord Percy
should hear the correspondence, by introducing it at General Paoli's, as an instance of Dr.
Johnson's kind disposition towards one in whom his Lordship was interested. Thus every unfavourable
impression was obviated that could possibly have been made on those by whom he wished most
to be regarded. I breakfasted the day after with him, and informed him of my scheme, and its
happy completion, for which he thanked me in the warmest terms, and was highly delighted with
Dr. Johnson's letter in his praise, of which I gave him a copy. He said, 'I would rather have
this than degrees from all the Universities in Europe. It will be for me, and my children and
grand-children.' Dr. Johnson having afterwards asked me if I had given him a copy of it, and
being told I had, was offended, and insisted that I should get it back, which I did. As, however,
he did not desire me to destroy either the original or the copy, or forbid me to let it be
seen, I think myself at liberty to apply to it his general declaration to me concerning his
other letters, 'That he did not choose they should be published in his lifetime; but had no
objection to their appearing after his death[805].' I shall therefore insert this kindly correspondence,
having faithfully narrated the circumstances accompanying it[806].

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'I beg leave to address you in behalf of our friend Dr. Percy, who was much hurt by what you
said to him that day we dined at his house[807]; when, in the course of the dispute as to Pennant's
merit as a traveller, you told Percy that "he had the resentment of a narrow mind against Pennant,
because he did not find every thing in Northumberland." Percy is sensible that you did not
mean to injure him; but he is vexed to think that your behaviour to him upon that occasion
may be interpreted as a proof that he is despised by you, which I know is not the case. I have
told him, that the charge of being narrow-minded was only as to the particular point in question;
and that he had the merit of being a martyr to his noble family.

'Earl Percy is to dine with General Paoli next Friday; and I should be sincerely glad to have
it in my power to satisfy his Lordship how well you think of Dr. Percy, who, I find, apprehends
that your good opinion of him may be of very essential consequence; and who assures me, that
he has the highest respect and the warmest affection for you.

'I have only to add, that my suggesting this occasion for the exercise of your candour and
generosity, is altogether unknown to Dr. Percy, and proceeds from my good-will towards him,
and my persuasion that you will be happy to do him an essential kindness.

'SIR,

'The debate between Dr. Percy and me is one of those foolish controversies, which begin upon
a question of which neither party cares how it is decided, and which is, nevertheless, continued
to acrimony, by the vanity with which every man resists confutation[808]. Dr. Percy's warmth
proceeded from a cause which, perhaps, does him more honour than he could have derived from
juster criticism. His abhorrence of Pennant proceeded from his opinion that Pennant had wantonly
and indecently censured his patron. His anger made him resolve, that, for having been once
wrong, he never should be right. Pennant has much in his notions that I do not like; but still
I think him a very intelligent traveller. If Percy is really offended, I am sorry; for he is
a man whom I never knew to offend any one. He is a man very willing to learn, and very able
to teach; a man, out of whose company I never go without having learned something. It is sure
that he vexes me sometimes, but I am afraid it is by making me feel my own ignorance. So much
extension of mind, and so much minute accuracy of enquiry, if you survey your whole circle
of acquaintance, you will find so scarce, if you find it at all, that you will value Percy
by comparison. Lord Hailes is somewhat like him: but Lord Hailes does not, perhaps, go beyond
him in research; and I do not know that he equals him in elegance. Percy's attention to poetry
has given grace and splendour to his studies of antiquity. A mere antiquarian is a rugged being.

'Upon the whole, you see that what I might say in sport or petulance to him, is very consistent
with full conviction of his merit.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 23, 1778.'

'TO THE REVEREND DR. PERCY, NORTHUMBERLAND-HOUSE.

'DEAR SIR,

'I wrote to Dr. Johnson on the subject of the Pennantian controversy; and have received from
him an answer which will delight you. I read it yesterday to Dr. Robertson, at the Exhibition;
and at dinner to Lord Percy, General Oglethorpe, &c. who dined with us at General Paoli's;
who was also a witness to the high testimony to your honour.

'General Paoli desires the favour of your company next Tuesday to dinner, to meet Dr. Johnson.
If I can, I will call on you to-day. Mr. Langton asked Johnson as to the propriety of sapientiae
consultus. JOHNSON. 'Though consultus was primarily an adjective, like amicus it came to be
used as a substantive. So we have Juris consultus, a consult in law.'

We talked of the styles of different painters, and how certainly a connoisseur could distinguish
them; I asked, if there was as clear a difference of styles in language as in painting, or
even as in hand-writing, so that the composition of every individual may be distinguished?
JOHNSON. 'Yes. Those who have a style of eminent excellence, such as Dryden and Milton, can
always be distinguished.' I had no doubt of this, but what I wanted to know was, whether there
was really a peculiar style to every man whatever, as there is certainly a peculiar handwriting,
a peculiar countenance, not widely different in many, yet always enough to be distinctive:--

'... facies non omnibus una, Nec diversa tamen[815].'

The Bishop thought not; and said, he supposed that many pieces in Dodsley's collection of poems,
though all very pretty, had nothing appropriated in their style, and in that particular could
not be at all distinguished. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, I think every man whatever has a peculiar
style[816], which may be discovered by nice examination and comparison with others: but a man
must write a great deal to make his style obviously discernible. JOHNSON. 'I should be sorry
if any of our Club were hanged.

On Tuesday, April 14, I dined with him at General Oglethorpe's, with General Paoli and Mr.
Langton. General Oglethorpe declaimed against luxury[823]. JOHNSON. 'Depend upon it, Sir, every
state of society is as luxurious as it can be. Men always take the best they can get.' OGLETHORPE.
'But the best depends much upon ourselves; and if we can be as well satisfied with plain things,
we are in the wrong to accustom our palates to what is high-seasoned and expensive. What says
Addison in his Cato, speaking of the Numidian?

"Coarse are his meals, the fortune of the chace, Amid the running stream he slakes his thirst,
Toils all the day, and at the approach of night, On the first friendly bank he throws him down,
Or rests his head upon a rock till morn[824]; And if the following day he chance to find A
new repast, or an untasted spring, Blesses his stars, and thinks it's luxury."

Let us have that kind of luxury, Sir, if you will.' JOHNSON. 'But hold, Sir; to be merely satisfied
is not enough. It is in refinement and elegance that the civilized man differs from the savage.
A great part of our industry, and all our ingenuity is exercised in procuring pleasure; and,
Sir, a hungry man has not the same pleasure in eating a plain dinner, that a hungry man has
in eating a luxurious dinner. You see I put the case fairly. A hungry man may have as much,
nay, more pleasure in eating a plain dinner, than a man grown fastidious has in eating a luxurious
dinner. But I suppose the man who decides between the two dinners, to be equally a hungry man.'

Talking of different governments,--JOHNSON. 'The more contracted that power is, the more easily
it is destroyed. A country governed by a despot is an inverted cone. Government there cannot
be so firm, as when it rests upon a broad basis gradually contracted, as the government of
Great Britain, which is founded on the parliament, then is in the privy council, then in the
King.' BOSWELL. 'Power, when contracted into the person of a despot, may be easily destroyed,
as the prince may be cut off. So Caligula wished that the people of Rome had but one neck,
that he might cut them off at a blow.' OGLETHORPE. 'It was of the Senate he wished that[825].
The Senate by its usurpation controlled both the Emperour and the people. And don't you think
that we see too much of that in our own Parliament?'

Dr. Johnson endeavoured to trace the etymology of Maccaronick verses, which he thought were
of Italian invention from Maccaroni; but on being informed that this would infer that they
were the most common and easy verses, maccaroni being the most ordinary and simple food, he
was at a loss; for he said, 'He rather should have supposed it to import in its primitive signification,
a composition of several things; for Maccaronick verses are verses made out of a mixture of
different languages, that is, of one language with the termination of another[826].' I suppose
we scarcely know of a language in any country where there is any learning, in which that motley
ludicrous species of composition may not be found. It is particularly droll in Low Dutch. The
Polemomiddinia[827] of Drummond of Hawthornden, in which there is a jumble of many languages
moulded, as if it were all in Latin, is well known. Mr. Langton made us laugh heartily at one
in the Grecian mould, by Joshua Barnes, in which are to be found such comical Anglo-Ellenisms
as [Greek: Klubboisin ebanchthen]: they were banged with clubs[828]. 'O! Mr. Dilly--you must
know that an English Benedictine Monk at Paris has translated The Duke of Berwick's Memoirs,
from the original French, and has sent them to me to sell. I offered them to Strahan, who sent
them back with this answer:--"That the first book he had published was the Duke of Berwick's
Life, by which he had lost: and he hated the name."--Now I honestly tell you, that Strahan
has refused them; but I also honestly tell you, that he did it upon no principle, for he never
looked into them.' DILLY. 'Are they well translated, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, very well--in
a style very current and very clear. I have written to the Benedictine to give me an answer
upon two points--What evidence is there that the letters are authentick? (for if they are not
authentick they are nothing;)--And how long will it be before the original French is published?
For if the French edition is not to appear for a considerable time, the translation will be
almost as valuable as an original book. They will make two volumes in octavo; and I have undertaken
to correct every sheet as it comes from the press.' Mr. Dilly desired to see them, and said
he would send for them. He asked Dr. Johnson if he would write a Preface to them. JOHNSON.
'No, Sir. The Benedictines were very kind to me[835], and I'll do what I undertook to do; but
I will not mingle my name with them. I am to gain nothing by them. I'll turn them loose upon
the world, and let them take their chance.' DR. MAYO. 'Pray, Sir, are Ganganelli's letters
authentick?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir. 'Probably not.'

Upon this subject I had once before sounded him, by mentioning the late Reverend Mr. Brown,
of Utrecht's, image; that a great and small glass, though equally full, did not hold an equal
quantity; which he threw out to refute David Hume's saying[839], that a little miss, going
to dance at a ball, in a fine new dress, was as happy as a great oratour, after having made
an eloquent and applauded speech. After some thought, Johnson said, 'I come over to the parson.'
As an instance of coincidence of thinking, Mr. Dilly told me, that Dr. King, a late dissenting
minister in London, said to him, upon the happiness in a future state of good men of different
capacities, 'A pail does not hold so much as a tub; but, if it be equally full, it has no reason
to complain.

DR. MAYO (to Dr. Johnson). 'Pray, Sir, have you read Edwards, of New England, on Grace?' JOHNSON.
'No, Sir.' BOSWELL. 'It puzzled me so much as to the freedom of the human will, by stating,
with wonderful acute ingenuity, our being actuated by a series of motives which we cannot resist,
that the only relief I had was to forget it.' MAYO. 'But he makes the proper distinction between
moral and physical necessity.' BOSWELL. 'Alas, Sir, they come both to the same thing. You may
be bound as hard by chains when covered by leather, as when the iron appears. The argument
for the moral necessity of human actions is always, I observe, fortified by supposing universal
prescience to be one of the attributes of the Deity.' JOHNSON. 'You are surer that you are
free, than you are of prescience; you are surer that you can lift up your finger or not as
you please, than you are of any conclusion from a deduction of reasoning. But let us consider
a little the objection from prescience. It is certain I am either to go home to-night or not;
that does not prevent my freedom.' BOSWELL. 'That it is certain you are either to go home or
not, does not prevent your freedom; because the liberty of choice between the two is compatible
with that certainty. But if one of these events be certain now, you have no future power of
volition. If it be certain you are to go home to-night, you must go home.' JOHNSON. 'If I am
well acquainted with a man, I can judge with great probability how he will act in any case,
without his being restrained by my judging. GOD may have this probability increased to certainty.'
BOSWELL. 'When it is increased to certainty, freedom ceases, because that cannot be certainly
foreknown, which is not certain at the time; but if it be certain at the time, it is a contradiction
in terms to maintain that there can be afterwards any contingency dependent upon the exercise
of will or any thing else.' JOHNSON. 'All theory is against the freedom of the will; all experience
for it[850].'--I did not push the subject any farther. I was glad to find him so mild in discussing
a question of the most abstract nature, involved with theological tenets, which he generally
would not suffer to be in any degree opposed[851].

He as usual defended luxury[852]; 'You cannot spend money in luxury without doing good to the
poor. Nay, you do more good to them by spending it in luxury, than by giving it: for by spending
it in luxury, you make them exert industry, whereas by giving it, you keep them idle. I own,
indeed, there may be more virtue in giving it immediately in charity, than in spending it in
luxury; though there may be a pride in that too.' Miss Seward asked, if this was not Mandeville's
doctrine of 'private vices publick benefits.' JOHNSON. 'The fallacy of that book is, that Mandeville
defines neither vices nor benefits. He reckons among vices everything that gives pleasure[853].
He takes the narrowest system of morality, monastick morality, which holds pleasure itself
to be a vice, such as eating salt with our fish, because it makes it eat better; and he reckons
wealth as a publick benefit, which is by no means always true. Pleasure of itself is not a
vice. Having a garden, which we all know to be perfectly innocent, is a great pleasure. At
the same time, in this state of being there are many pleasures vices, which however are so
immediately agreeable that we can hardly abstain from them. The happiness of Heaven will be,
that pleasure and virtue will be perfectly consistent. Mandeville puts the case of a man who
gets drunk in an alehouse; and says it is a publick benefit, because so much money is got by
it to the publick. But it must be considered, that all the good gained by this, through the
gradation of alehouse-keeper, brewer, maltster, and farmer, is overbalanced by the evil caused
to the man and his family by his getting drunk[854]. This is the way to try what is vicious,
by ascertaining whether more evil than good is produced by it upon the whole, which is the
case in all vice. It may happen that good is produced by vice; but not as vice; for instance,
a robber may take money from its owner, and give it to one who will make a better use of it.
Here is good produced; but not by the robbery as robbery, but as translation of property[855].
I read Mandeville forty, or, I believe, fifty years ago. He did not puzzle me; he opened my
views into real life very much[856]. No, it is clear that the happiness of society depends
on virtue. In Sparta, theft was allowed by general consent[857]: theft, therefore, was there
not a crime, but then there was no security; and what a life must they have had, when there
was no security. Without truth there must be a dissolution of society. As it is, there is so
little truth, that we are almost afraid to trust our ears; but how should we be, if falsehood
were multiplied ten times? Society is held together by communication and information; and I
remember this remark of Sir Thomas Brown's, "Do the devils lie? Why should she flatter me?
I can do nothing for her. Let her carry her praise to a better market[861]. But he is both.'

I expressed a horrour at the thought of death. MRS. KNOWLES. 'Nay, thou should'st not have
a horrour for what is the gate of life.' JOHNSON, (standing upon the hearth rolling about,
with a serious, solemn, and somewhat gloomy air:) 'No rational man can die without uneasy apprehension.'
MRS. KNOWLES. 'The Scriptures tell us, "The righteous shall have hope in his death[865]."'
JOHNSON. 'Yes, Madam; that is, he shall not have despair[866]. But, consider, his hope of salvation
must be founded on the terms on which it is promised that the mediation of our SAVIOUR shall
be applied to us,--namely, obedience; and where obedience has failed, then, as suppletory to
it, repentance. But what man can say that his obedience has been such, as he would approve
of in another, or even in himself upon close examination, or that his repentance has not been
such as to require being repented of? No man can be sure that his obedience and repentance
will obtain salvation.' MRS. KNOWLES. 'But divine intimation of acceptance may be made to the
soul.' JOHNSON. 'Madam, it may; but I should not think the better of a man who should tell
me on his death-bed he was sure of salvation. A man cannot be sure himself that he has divine
intimation of acceptance; much less can he make others sure that he has it[867].' BOSWELL.
'Then, Sir, we must be contented to acknowledge that death is a terrible thing.' JOHNSON. 'Yes,
Sir. I have made no approaches to a state which can look on it as not terrible[868].' MRS.
KNOWLES, (seeming to enjoy a pleasing serenity in the persuasion of benignant divine light:)
'Does not St. Paul say, "I have fought the good fight of faith, I have finished my course;
henceforth is laid up for me a crown of life[869]?"' JOHNSON. 'Yes, Madam; but here was a man
inspired, a man who had been converted by supernatural interposition.' BOSWELL. 'In prospect
death is dreadful; but in fact we find that people die easy.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, most people
have not thought much of the matter, so cannot say much, and it is supposed they die easy.
Few believe it certain they are then to die; and those who do, set themselves to behave with
resolution, as a man does who is going to be hanged. He is not the less unwilling to be hanged[870].'
MISS SEWARD. 'There is one mode of the fear of death, which is certainly absurd; and that is
the dread of annihilation, which is only a pleasing sleep without a dream.' JOHNSON. 'It is
neither pleasing, nor sleep; it is nothing. Now mere existence is so much better than nothing,
that one would rather exist even in pain, than not exist[871].' BOSWELL. 'If annihilation be
nothing, then existing in pain is not a comparative state, but is a positive evil, which I
cannot think we should choose. I must be allowed to differ here; and it would lessen the hope
of a future state founded on the argument, that the Supreme Being, who is good as he is great,
will hereafter compensate for our present sufferings in this life. For if existence, such as
we have it here, be comparatively a good, we have no reason to complain, though no more of
it should be given to us. But if our only state of existence were in this world, then we might
with some reason complain that we are so dissatisfied with our enjoyments compared with our
desires.' JOHNSON. 'The lady confounds annihilation, which is nothing, with the apprehension
of it, which is dreadful. "This (says John) is a proof that a ghost knows our thoughts[874]."
But I always think afterwards I should have done better for myself.' I told him that at a gentleman's
house[880] where there was thought to be such extravagance or bad management, that he was living
much beyond his income, his lady had objected to the cutting of a pickled mango, and that I
had taken an opportunity to ask the price of it, and found it was only two shillings; so here
was a very poor saving. JOHNSON. 'Sir, that is the blundering oeconomy of a narrow understanding.
The world is now not contented to be merely entertained by a traveller's narrative; they want
to learn something[882]. 'Some hogsheads, I warrant you.' JOHNSON. 'I then had a severe illness,
and left it off[898], and I have never begun it again. I never felt any difference upon myself
from eating one thing rather than another, nor from one kind of weather rather than another[899].
Come, Sir, drink water, and put in for a hundred.'

Mr. Edwards mentioned a gentleman who had left his whole fortune to Pembroke College. JOHNSON.
'Whether to leave one's whole fortune to a College be right, must depend upon circumstances.

Mr. Allen, the printer, brought a book on agriculture, which was printed, and was soon to be
published[923]. It was a very strange performance, the authour having mixed in it his own thoughts
upon various topicks, along with his remarks on ploughing, sowing, and other farming operations.
He seemed to be an absurd profane fellow, and had introduced in his book many sneers at religion,
with equal ignorance and conceit. Dr. Johnson permitted me to read some passages aloud. One
was, that he resolved to work on Sunday, and did work, but he owned he felt some weak compunction;
and he had this very curious reflection:--'I was born in the wilds of Christianity, and the
briars and thorns still hang about me.' Dr. Johnson could not help laughing at this ridiculous
image, yet was very angry at the fellow's impiety. 'However, (said he,) the Reviewers will
make him hang himself.' He, however, observed, 'that formerly there might have been a dispensation
obtained for working on Sunday in the time of harvest[924].' Indeed in ritual observances,
were all the ministers of religion what they should be, and what many of them are, such a power
might be wisely and safely lodged with the Church.

On Saturday, April 14[925], I drank tea with him. 'No, Sir; I never went to him but when he
sent for me.' BOSWELL. To be sure it should not be. I expressed a wish to have the arguments
for Christianity always in readiness, that my religious faith might be as firm and clear as
any proposition whatever, so that I need not be under the least uneasiness, when it should
be attacked. JOHNSON. 'Sir, you cannot answer all objections. You have demonstration for a
First Cause: you see he must be good as well as powerful, because there is nothing to make
him otherwise, and goodness of itself is preferable. Yet you have against this, what is very
certain, the unhappiness of human life. This, however, gives us reason to hope for a future
state of compensation, that there may be a perfect system. But of that we were not sure, till
we had a positive revelation.' I told him, that his Rasselas had often made me unhappy; for
it represented the misery of human life so well, and so convincingly to a thinking mind, that
if at any time the impression wore off, and I felt myself easy, I began to suspect some delusion.

On Monday, April 20[936], I found him at home in the morning. The Project[939], a new poem,
was read to the company by Dr. Musgrave. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it has no power. Were it not for the
well-known names with which it is filled, it would be nothing: the names carry the poet, not
the poet the names.' MUSGRAVE. 'A temporary poem always entertains us.' JOHNSON. JOHNSON. 'No,
Sir. A few sheets of poetry unbound are a pamphlet[941], as much as a few sheets of prose.'
MUSGRAVE. 'A pamphlet may be understood to mean a poetical piece in Westminster-Hall, that
is, in formal language; but in common language it is understood to mean prose.' JOHNSON. (and
here was one of the many instances of his knowing clearly and telling exactly how a thing is)
'A pamphlet is understood in common language to mean prose, only from this, that there is so
much more prose written than poetry; as when we say a book, prose is understood for the same
reason, though a book may as well be in poetry as in prose.

His friend Edward Cave having been mentioned, he told us, 'Cave used to sell ten thousand of
The Gentleman's Magazine; yet such was then his minute attention and anxiety that the sale
should not suffer the smallest decrease, that he would name a particular person who he heard
had talked of leaving off the Magazine, and would say, 'Let us have something good next month.'

It was observed, that avarice was inherent in some dispositions. JOHNSON. 'No man was born
a miser, because no man was born to possession. Every man is born cupidus--desirous of getting;
but not avarus,--desirous of keeping.' BOSWELL. 'I have heard old Mr. Sheridan maintain, with
much ingenuity, that a complete miser is a happy man; a miser who gives himself wholly to the
one passion of saving.' JOHNSON. 'That is flying in the face of all the world, who have called
an avaricious man a miser, because he is miserable[948]. 'Sometimes it may proceed from a man's
strong consciousness of his faults being observed. At this time fears of an invasion were circulated;
to obviate which, Mr. Spottiswoode observed, that Mr. Fraser the engineer, who had lately come
from Dunkirk, said, that the French had the same fears of us. JOHNSON. 'It is thus that mutual
cowardice keeps us in peace. Were one half of mankind brave, and one half cowards, the brave
would be always beating the cowards. Were all brave, they would lead a very uneasy life; all
would be continually fighting: but being all cowards, we go on very well[969].'

We talked of drinking wine. JOHNSON. 'I require wine, only when I am alone.

I was at this time myself a water-drinker, upon trial, by Johnson's recommendation[976]. JOHNSON.
'Fifteen years ago I should have gone to see her.' SPOTTISWOODE. 'Because she was fifteen years
younger?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir; but now they have a trick of putting every thing into the newspapers[980].'

He begged of General Paoli to repeat one of the introductory stanzas of the first book of Tasso's
Jerusalem, which he did, and then Johnson found fault with the simile of sweetening the edges
of a cup for a child, being transferred from Lucretius into an epick poem[981]. The General
said he did not imagine Homer's poetry was so ancient as is supposed, because he ascribes to
a Greek colony circumstances of refinement not found in Greece itself at a later period, when
Thucydides wrote. JOHNSON. JOHNSON. 'All that is really known of the ancient state of Britain
is contained in a few pages. We can know no more than what the old writers have told us; yet
what large books have we upon it, the whole of which, excepting such parts as are taken from
those old writers, is all a dream, such as Whitaker's Manchester[990]. I have heard Henry's
History of Britain well spoken of: I am told it is carried on in separate divisions, as the
civil, the military, the religious history: I wish much to have one branch well done, and that
is the history of manners, of common life.' ROBERTSON. 'Henry should have applied his attention
to that alone, which is enough for any man; and he might have found a great deal scattered
in various books, had he read solely with that view. Henry erred in not selling his first volume
at a moderate price to the booksellers, that they might have pushed him on till he had got
reputation[991]. I sold my History of Scotland at a moderate price[992], as a work by which
the booksellers might either gain or not; and Cadell has told me that Millar and he have got
six thousand pounds by it. I afterwards received a much higher price for my writings.

Johnson harangued against drinking wine[996]. 'A man (said he) may choose whether he will have
abstemiousness and knowledge, or claret and ignorance.' Dr. Robertson, (who is very companionable,)
was beginning to dissent as to the proscription of claret[997]. JOHNSON: (with a placid smile.)
'Nay, Sir, you shall not differ with me; as I have said that the man is most perfect who takes
in the most things, I am for knowledge and claret.' ROBERTSON: (holding a glass of generous
claret in his hand.) 'Sir, I can only drink your health.' JOHNSON. 'Sir, I should be sorry
if you should be ever in such a state as to be able to do nothing more.' ROBERTSON. 'Dr. Johnson,
allow me to say, that in one respect I have the advantage of you; when you were in Scotland
you would not come to hear any of our preachers[998], whereas, when I am here, I attend your
publick worship without scruple, and indeed, with great satisfaction.' JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir,
that is not so extraordinary: the King of Siam sent ambassadors to Louis the Fourteenth; but
Louis the Fourteenth sent none to the King of Siam[999].'

Here my friend for once discovered a want of knowledge or forgetfulness; for Louis the Fourteenth
did send an embassy to the King of Siam, and the Abbe Choisi, who was employed in it, published
an account of it in two volumes[1000]. His doctrine is the best limited, the best expressed:
there is the most warmth without fanaticism, the most rational transport. There is one part
of it which I disapprove, and I'd have him correct it; which is, that "he who does not feel
joy in religion is far from the kingdom of heaven!" There are many good men whose fear of GOD
predominates over their love. It may discourage. It was rashly said. A noble sermon it is indeed.
I wish Blair would come over to the Church of England.'

When Mr. Langton returned to us, the 'flow of talk' went on. BOSWELL. 'You will except the
Chinese, Sir?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir.' BOSWELL. 'Have they not arts?' JOHNSON. 'They have pottery.'
BOSWELL. 'What do you say to the written characters of their language? 'JOHNSON. 'Sir, they
have not an alphabet. They have not been able to form what all other nations have formed.'
BOSWELL. 'There is more learning in their language than in any other, from the immense number
of their characters.' JOHNSON. 'It is only more difficult from its rudeness; as there is more
labour in hewing down a tree with a stone than with an axe.'

He said, 'I have been reading Lord Kames's Sketches of the History of Man. In treating of severity
of punishment, he mentions that of Madame Lapouchin, in Russia, but he does not give it fairly;
for I have looked at Chappe D'Auteroche[1011], from whom he has taken it. He stops where it
is said that the spectators thought her innocent, and leaves out what follows; that she nevertheless
was guilty. Now this is being as culpable as one can conceive, to misrepresent fact in a book,
and for what motive? It is like one of those lies which people tell, one cannot see why. The
woman's life was spared; and no punishment was too great for the favourite of an Empress who
had conspired to dethrone her mistress.' BOSWELL. 'He was only giving a picture of the lady
in her sufferings.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, don't endeavour to palliate this. Guilt is a principal feature
in the picture. Kames is puzzled with a question that puzzled me when I was a very young man.
Why is it that the interest of money is lower, when money is plentiful; for five pounds has
the same proportion of value to a hundred pounds when money is plentiful, as when it is scarce?
A lady explained it to me. "It is (said she) because when money is plentiful there are so many
more who have money to lend, that they bid down one another. Many have then a hundred pounds;
and one says,--Take mine rather than another's, and you shall have it at four per cent."' BOSWELL.
'Does Lord Kames decide the question?' JOHNSON. 'I think he leaves it as he found it[1012].'
BOSWELL. 'This must have been an extraordinary lady who instructed you, Sir. May I ask who
she was?' JOHNSON. 'Molly Aston[1013], Sir, the sister of those ladies with whom you dined
at Lichfield[1014].

Our conversation to-day, I know not how, turned, (I think for the only time at any length,
during our long acquaintance,) upon the sensual intercourse between the sexes, the delight
of which he ascribed chiefly to imagination. 'Were it not for imagination, Sir, (said he,)
a man would be as happy in the arms of a chambermaid as of a Duchess. But such is the adventitious
charm of fancy, that we find men who have violated the best principles of society, and ruined
their fame and their fortune, that they might possess a woman of rank.' It would not be proper
to record the particulars of such a conversation in moments of unreserved frankness, when nobody
was present on whom it could have any hurtful effect. That subject, when philosophically treated,
may surely employ the mind in as curious discussion, and as innocently, as anatomy; provided
that those who do treat it keep clear of inflammatory incentives.

'From grave to gay, from lively to severe[1015],'--we were soon engaged in very different speculation;
humbly and reverently considering and wondering at the universal mystery of all things, as
our imperfect faculties can now judge of them. 'There are (said he) innumerable questions to
which the inquisitive mind can in this state receive no answer: Why do you and I exist? Why
was this world created? Since it was to be created, why was it not created sooner?'

On Sunday, May 10, I supped with him at Mr. Hoole's, with Sir Joshua Reynolds. And what do
you think of his definition of Excise?

I mentioned a reflection having been thrown out against four Peers for having presumed to rise
in opposition to the opinion of the twelve Judges, in a cause in the House of Lords[1024],
as if that were indecent. JOHNSON. 'Sir, there is no ground for censure. The Peers are Judges
themselves; and supposing them really to be of a different opinion, they might from duty be
in opposition to the Judges, who were there only to be consulted.'

In this observation I fully concurred with him; for, unquestionably, all the Peers are vested
with the highest judicial powers; and when they are confident that they understand a cause,
are not obliged, nay ought not to acquiesce in the opinion of the ordinary Law Judges, or even
in that of those who from their studies and experience are called the Law Lords. I consider
the Peers in general as I do a Jury, who ought to listen with respectful attention to the sages
of the law; but, if after hearing them, they have a firm opinion of their own, are bound, as
honest men, to decide accordingly. Nor is it so difficult for them to understand even law questions,
as is generally thought; provided they will bestow sufficient attention upon them. This observation
was made by my honoured relation the late Lord Cathcart, who had spent his life in camps and
courts; yet assured me, that he could form a clear opinion upon most of the causes that came
before the House of Lords, 'as they were so well enucleated[1025] in the Cases.'

Mrs. Thrale told us, that a curious clergyman of our acquaintance had discovered a licentious
stanza, which Pope had originally in his Universal Prayer, before the stanza,

'What conscience dictates to be done, Or warns us[1026] not to do,' &c.

It was thus:--

'Can sins of moment claim the rod Of everlasting fires? And that offend great Nature's GOD,
Which Nature's self inspires[1027]?'

and that Dr. Johnson observed, 'it had been borrowed from Guarini.' There are, indeed, in Pastor
Fido, many such flimsy superficial reasonings, as that in the last two lines of this stanza.
BOSWELL. 'In that stanza of Pope's, "rod of fires" is certainly a bad metaphor.' MRS. THRALE.
'And "sins of moment" is a faulty expression; for its true import is momentous, which cannot
be intended.' JOHNSON. 'It must have been written "of moments." Of moment, is momentous; of
moments, momentary. I warrant you, however, Pope wrote this stanza, and some friend struck
it out. Boileau wrote some such thing, and Arnaud[1028] struck it out, saying, "Vous gagnerez
deux ou trois impies, et perdrez je ne scais combien des honnettes gens." These fellows want
to say a daring thing, and don't know how to go about it. Mere poets know no more of fundamental
principles than--.' Here he was interrupted somehow. Mrs. Thrale mentioned Dryden. JOHNSON.

'He that is robb'd, not wanting what is stolen, Let him not know't, and he's not robb'd at
all[1030].'

Dr. Johnson and Mrs. Thrale joined against this. JOHNSON. 'Ask any man if he'd wish not to
know of such an injury.' BOSWELL. 'Would you tell your friend to make him unhappy?' JOHNSON.
'Perhaps, Sir, I should not; but that would be from prudence on my own account. A man would
tell his father.' BOSWELL. 'Yes; because he would not have spurious children to get any share
of the family inheritance.' MRS. THRALE. 'Or he would tell his brother.' BOSWELL. 'Certainly
his elder brother.' JOHNSON. 'You would tell your friend of a woman's infamy, to prevent his
marrying a whore: there is the same reason to tell him of his wife's infidelity, when he is
married, to prevent the consequences of imposition. It is a breach of confidence not to tell
a friend.' BOSWELL. 'Would you tell Mr.----[1031]?' (naming a gentleman who assuredly was not
in the least danger of such a miserable disgrace, though married to a fine woman.) JOHNSON.
'No, Sir; because it would do no good: he is so sluggish, he'd never go to parliament and get
through a divorce.'

He said of one of our friends[1032], 'He is ruining himself without pleasure. A man who loses
at play, or who runs out his fortune at court, makes his estate less, in hopes of making it
bigger: (I am sure of this word, which was often used by him:) but it is a sad thing to pass
through the quagmire of parsimony, to the gulph of ruin. We resumed Sir Joshua Reynolds's argument
on the preceding Sunday, that a man would be virtuous though he had no other motive than to
preserve his character. JOHNSON. 'Sir, it is not true: for as to this world vice does not hurt
a man's character.' BOSWELL. 'Yes, Sir, debauching a friend's wife will.' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir.
Who thinks the worse of ----[1036] for it?' BOSWELL. 'Lord ----[1037] was not his friend.'
JOHNSON. 'That is only a circumstance, Sir; a slight distinction. He could not get into the
house but by Lord ----. A man is chosen Knight of the shire, not the less for having debauched
ladies.' BOSWELL. 'What, Sir, if he debauched the ladies of gentlemen in the county, will not
there be a general resentment against him?' JOHNSON. 'No, Sir. He will lose those particular
gentlemen; but the rest will not trouble their heads about it.' (warmly.) BOSWELL. 'Well, Sir,
I cannot think so.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, there is no talking with a man who will dispute what
every body knows, (angrily.) Don't you know this?' BOSWELL. 'No, Sir; and I wish to think better
of your country than you represent it. I knew in Scotland a gentleman obliged to leave it for
debauching a lady; and in one of our counties an Earl's brother lost his election, because
he had debauched the lady of another Earl in that county, and destroyed the peace of a noble
family.'

Still he would not yield. He proceeded: 'Will you not allow, Sir, that vice does not hurt a
man's character so as to obstruct his prosperity in life, when you know that ----[1038] was
loaded with wealth and honours; a man who had acquired his fortune by such crimes, that his
consciousness of them impelled him to cut his own throat.' BOSWELL. 'You will recollect, Sir,
that Dr. Robertson said, he cut his throat because he was weary of still life; little things
not being sufficient to move his great mind.' JOHNSON, (very angry.) 'Nay, Sir, what stuff
is this! You had no more this opinion after Robertson said it, than before. I know nothing
more offensive than repeating what one knows to be foolish things, by way of continuing a dispute,
to see what a man will answer,--to make him your butt!' (angrier still.) BOSWELL. 'My dear
Sir, I had no such intentions as you seem to suspect; I had not indeed. Might not this nobleman
have felt every thing "weary, stale, flat, and unprofitable[1039]," as Hamlet says?' JOHNSON.
'Nay, if you are to bring in gabble, I'll talk no more. I will not, upon my honour.'--My readers
will decide upon this dispute.

Next morning I stated to Mrs. Thrale at breakfast, before he came down, the dispute of last
night as to the influence of character upon success in life. She said he was certainly wrong;
and told me, that a Baronet lost an election in Wales, because he had debauched the sister
of a gentleman in the county, whom he made one of his daughters invite as her companion at
his seat in the country, when his lady and his other children were in London. But she would
not encounter Johnson upon the subject. He added, 'in this book it is maintained that virtue
is natural to man, and that if we would but consult our own hearts we should be virtuous.[1043]
Now after consulting our own hearts all we can, and with all the helps we have, we find how
few of us are virtuous. I regret very feelingly every instance of my remissness in recording
his memorabilia; I am afraid it is the condition of humanity (as Mr. Windham, of Norfolk, once
observed to me, after having made an admirable speech in the House of Commons, which was highly
applauded, but which he afterwards perceived might have been better:) 'that we are more uneasy
from thinking of our wants, than happy in thinking of our acquisitions.' This is an unreasonable
mode of disturbing our tranquillity, and should be corrected; let me then comfort myself with
the large treasure of Johnson's conversation which I have preserved for my own enjoyment and
that of the world, and let me exhibit what I have upon each occasion, whether more or less,
whether a bulse[1054], or only a few sparks of a diamond.

He said, 'Dr. Mead lived more in the broad sunshine of life than almost any man[1055].' The
disaster of General Burgoyne's army was then the common topic of conversation. It was asked
why piling their arms was insisted upon as a matter of such consequence, when it seemed to
be a circumstance so inconsiderable in itself[1056]. JOHNSON. 'Why, Sir, a French authour says,
"Il y a beaucoup de puerilites dans la guerre." All distinctions are trifles, because great
things can seldom occur, and those distinctions are settled by custom. A savage would as willingly
have his meat sent to him in the kitchen, as eat it at the table here; as men become civilized,
various modes of denoting honourable preference are invented.'

He this day made the observations upon the similarity between Rasselas and Candide, which I
have inserted in its proper place[1057], when considering his admirable philosophical Romance.
He said Candide he thought had more power in it than any thing that Voltaire had written.

He said, 'the lyrical part of Horace never can be perfectly translated; so much of the excellence
is in the numbers and the expression. Francis has done it the best; I'll take his, five out
of six, against them all.'

On Sunday, May 17, I presented to him Mr. Fullarton, of Fullarton, who has since distinguished
himself so much in India[1058], to whom he naturally talked of travels, as Mr. Brydone accompanied
him in his tour to Sicily and Malta. He said, 'The information which we have from modern travellers
is much more authentick than what we had from ancient travellers; ancient travellers guessed;
modern travellers measure[1059]. The Swiss admit that there is but one errour in Stanyan[1060].
If Brydone were more attentive to his Bible, he would be a good traveller[1061].'

He said, 'Lord Chatham was a Dictator; he possessed the power of putting the State in motion;
now there is no power, all order is relaxed.' BOSWELL. 'Is there no hope of a change to the
better?' JOHNSON. 'Why, yes, Sir, when we are weary of this relaxation. So the City of London
will appoint its Mayors again by seniority[1062].' BOSWELL. 'But is not that taking a mere
chance for having a good or a bad Mayor?' JOHNSON. I thought this alteration not only cured
the fault, but was more poetical, as it might carry an allusion to the shirt by which Hercules
was inflamed.

We had a quiet comfortable meeting at Mr. Dilly's; nobody there but ourselves. Mr. Dilly mentioned
somebody having wished that Milton's Tractate on Education should be printed along with his
Poems in the edition of The English Poets then going on. JOHNSON. 'It would be breaking in
upon the plan; but would be of no great consequence. So far as it would be any thing, it would
be wrong. Education in England has been in danger of being hurt by two of its greatest men,
Milton and Locke. Milton's plan is impracticable, and I suppose has never been tried. Locke's,
I fancy, has been tried often enough, but is very imperfect; it gives too much to one side,
and too little to the other; it gives too little to literature[1067].--I shall do what I can
for Dr. Watts; but my materials are very scanty. His poems are by no means his best works;
I cannot praise his poetry itself highly; but I can praise its design[1068].'

My illustrious friend and I parted with assurances of affectionate regard.

I wrote to him on the 25th of May, from Thorpe in Yorkshire, one of the seats of Mr. Bosville[1069],
and gave him an account of my having passed a day at Lincoln, unexpectedly, and therefore without
having any letters of introduction, but that I had been honoured with civilities from the Reverend
Mr. Simpson, an acquaintance of his, and Captain Broadley, of the Lincolnshire Militia; but
more particularly from the Reverend Dr. Gordon, the Chancellor, who first received me with
great politeness as a stranger, and when I informed him who I was, entertained me at his house
with the most flattering attention; I also expressed the pleasure with which I had found that
our worthy friend Langton was highly esteemed in his own county town.

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, June 18, 1778.

'MY DEAR SIR,

       *       *       *       *       *

'Since my return to Scotland, I have been again at Lanark, and have had more conversation with
Thomson's sister. It is strange that Murdoch, who was his intimate friend, should have mistaken
his mother's maiden name, which he says was Hume, whereas Hume was the name of his grandmother
by the mother's side. His mother's name was Beatrix Trotter[1070], a daughter of Mr. Trotter,
of Fogo, a small proprietor of land. Thomson had one brother, whom he had with him in England
as his amanuensis; but he was seized with a consumption, and having returned to Scotland, to
try what his native air would do for him, died young. He had three sisters, one married to
Mr. Bell, minister of the parish of Strathaven; one to Mr. Craig, father of the ingenious architect,
who gave the plan of the New Town of Edinburgh; and one to Mr. Thomson, master of the grammar-school
at Lanark. He was of a humane and benevolent disposition; not only sent valuable presents to
his sisters, but a yearly allowance in money, and was always wishing to have it in his power
to do them more good. Lord Lyttelton's observation, that "he loathed much to write," was very
true. His letters to his sister, Mrs. Thomson, were not frequent, and in one of them he says,
"All my friends who know me, know how backward I am to write letters; and never impute the
negligence of my hand to the coldness of my heart." I send you a copy of the last letter which
she had from him[1071]; she never heard that he had any intention of going into holy orders.
From this late interview with his sister, I think much more favourably of him, as I hope you
will. I am eager to see more of your Prefaces to the Poets; I solace myself with the few proof-sheets
which I have.

'I send another parcel of Lord Hailes's Annals[1072], which you will please to return to me
as soon as you conveniently can. He says, "he wishes you would cut a little deeper;" but he
may be proud that there is so little occasion to use the critical knife. I shall give them
in his own words in a letter to me. The gentlemen of the East York regiment likewise on being
informed of his coming, solicited his company at dinner, but by that time he had fixed his
departure, so that he could not comply with the invitation.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have received two letters from you, of which the second complains of the neglect shewn to
the first. You must not tye your friends to such punctual correspondence. You have all possible
assurances of my affection and esteem; and there ought to be no need of reiterated professions.
When it may happen that I can give you either counsel or comfort, I hope it will never happen
to me that I should neglect you; but you must not think me criminal or cold if I say nothing
when I have nothing to say.

'You are now happy enough. Mrs. Boswell is recovered; and I congratulate you upon the probability
of her long life. If general approbation will add anything to your enjoyment, I can tell you
that I have heard you mentioned as a man whom everybody likes[1077]. I think life has little
more to give.

'----[1078] has gone to his regiment. He has laid down his coach, and talks of making more
contractions of his expence: how he will succeed I know not. It is difficult to reform a household
gradually; it may be better done by a system totally new. I am afraid he has always something
to hide. When we pressed him to go to ----[1079], he objected the necessity of attending his
navigation[1080]; yet he could talk of going to Aberdeen, a place not much nearer his navigation.
I believe he cannot bear the thought of living at ----[1081] in a state of diminution; and
of appearing among the gentlemen of the neighbourhood shorn of his beams.[1082] This is natural,
but it is cowardly. What I told him of the encreasing expence of a growing family seems to
have struck him. He certainly had gone on with very confused views, and we have, I think, shewn
him that he is wrong; though, with the common deficiency of advisers, we have not shewn him
how to do right.[1083]

'I wish you would a little correct or restrain your imagination, and imagine that happiness,
such as life admits, may be had at other places as well as London. Without asserting Stoicism,
it may be said, that it is our business to exempt ourselves as much as we can from the power
of external things. There is but one solid basis of happiness; and that is, the reasonable
hope of a happy futurity.[1084] This may be had every where.

'I do not blame your preference of London to other places, for it is really to be preferred,
if the choice is free; but few have the choice of their place, or their manner of life; and
mere pleasure ought not to be the prime motive of action.

'Mrs. Thrale, poor thing, has a daughter.[1085] Mr. Thrale dislikes the times,[1086] like the
rest of us. Mrs. Williams is sick; Mrs. Desmoulins is poor. I have miserable nights. Nobody
is well but Mr. Levett.

'I am, dear Sir, Your most, &c.

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, July 3, 1778.'

In the course of this year there was a difference between him and his friend Mr. Strahan;[1087]
the particulars of which it is unnecessary to relate. Their reconciliation was communicated
to me in a letter from Mr. Strahan, in the following words:--

'The notes I shewed you that passed between him and me were dated in March last. The matter
lay dormant till July 27,[1088] when he wrote to me as follows:

"To William Strahan, Esq.

"Sir,

"It would be very foolish for us to continue strangers any longer. You can never by persistency
make wrong right. If I resented too acrimoniously, I resented only to yourself. Nobody ever
saw or heard what I wrote. You saw that my anger was over, for in a day or two I came to your
house. I have given you longer time; and I hope you have made so good use of it, as to be no
longer on evil terms with, Sir,

"Your, &c.

"Sam. Johnson."

'On this I called upon him; and he has since dined with me.'

After this time, the same friendship as formerly continued between Dr. Johnson and Mr. Strahan.
My friend mentioned to me a little circumstance of his attention, which, though we may smile
at it, must be allowed to have its foundation in a nice and true knowledge of human life. 'When
I write to Scotland, (said he,) I employ Strahan to frank my letters, that he may have the
consequence of appearing a Parliament-man among his countrymen.'

'To CAPTAIN LANGTON[1089], WARLEY-CAMP.

'DEAR SIR,

'When I recollect how long ago I was received with so much kindness at Warley Common, I am
ashamed that I have not made some enquiries after my friends.

'Pray how many sheep-stealers did you convict? and how did you punish them? When are you to
be cantoned in better habitations? The air grows cold, and the ground damp. Longer stay in
the camp cannot be without much danger to the health of the common men, if even the officers
can escape.

'You see that Dr. Percy is now Dean of Carlisle; about five hundred a year, with a power of
presenting himself to some good living. He is provided for.

'The session of the CLUB is to commence with that of the Parliament. Mr. Banks[1090] desires
to be admitted; he will be a very honourable accession.

'Did the King please you[1091]? The Coxheath men, I think, have some reason to complain[1092]:
Reynolds says your camp is better than theirs.

'I hope you find yourself able to encounter this weather. Take care of your own health; and,
as you can, of your men. Be pleased to make my compliments to all the gentlemen whose notice
I have had, and whose kindness I have experienced.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'Sam. Johnson.'

'October 31, 1778.'

I wrote to him on the 18th of August, the 18th of September, and the 6th of November; informing
him of my having had another son born, whom I had called James[1093]; that I had passed some
time at Auchinleck; that the Countess of Loudoun, now in her ninety-ninth year, was as fresh
as when he saw her[1094], and remembered him with respect; and that his mother by adoption,
the Countess of Eglintoune[1095], had said to me, 'Tell Mr. Johnson I love him exceedingly;'
that I had again suffered much from bad spirits; and that as it was very long since I heard
from him, I was not a little uneasy.

The continuance of his regard for his friend Dr. Burney, appears from the following letters:--

'To THE REVEREND DR. WHEELER[1096], OXFORD.

'DEAR SIR,

'Dr. Burney, who brings this paper, is engaged in a History of Musick; and having been told
by Dr. Markham of some MSS. relating to his subject, which are in the library of your College,
is desirous to examine them. He is my friend; and therefore I take the liberty of intreating
your favour and assistance in his enquiry: and can assure you, with great confidence, that
if you knew him he would not want any intervenient solicitation to obtain the kindness of one
who loves learning and virtue as you love them.

'I have been flattering myself all the summer with the hope of paying my annual visit to my
friends; but something has obstructed me: I still hope not to be long without seeing you. I
should be glad of a little literary talk; and glad to shew you, by the frequency of my visits,
how eagerly I love it, when you talk it.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'London, November 2, 1778.'

'TO THE REVEREND DR. EDWARDS[1097], OXFORD.

'SIR,

'The bearer, DR. BURNEY, has had some account of a Welsh Manuscript in the Bodleian library,
from which he hopes to gain some materials for his History of Musick; but being ignorant of
the language, is at a loss where to find assistance. I make no doubt but you, Sir, can help
him through his difficulties, and therefore take the liberty of recommending him to your favour,
as I am sure you will find him a man worthy of every civility that can be shewn, and every
benefit that can be conferred.

'But we must not let Welsh drive us from Greek. What comes of Xenophon[1098]? If you do not
like the trouble of publishing the book, do not let your commentaries be lost; contrive that
they may be published somewhere.

These letters procured Dr. Burney great kindness and friendly offices from both of these gentleman,
not only on that occasion, but in future visits to the university[1099]. The same year Dr.
Johnson not only wrote to Dr. Joseph Warton in favour of Dr. Burney's youngest son, who was
to be placed in the college of Winchester, but accompanied him when he went thither[1100].

'DEAR SIR,

'It is indeed a long time since I wrote, and I think you have some reason to complain; however,
you must not let small things disturb you, when you have such a fine addition to your happiness
as a new boy, and I hope your lady's health restored by bringing him. It seems very probable
that a little care will now restore her, if any remains of her complaints are left.

'You seem, if I understand your letter, to be gaining ground at Auchinleck[1104], an incident
that would give me great delight.

       *       *       *       *       *

'When any fit of anxiety, or gloominess, or perversion of mind, lays hold upon you, make it
a rule not to publish it by complaints, but exert your whole care to hide it; by endeavouring
to hide it, you will drive it away. Be always busy[1105].

'The CLUB is to meet with the Parliament; we talk of electing Banks, the traveller; he will
be a reputable member.

'Langton has been encamped with his company of militia on Warley-common; I spent five days
amongst them; he signalized himself as a diligent officer, and has very high respect in the
regiment. He presided when I was there at a court-martial; he is now quartered in Hertfordshire;
his lady and little ones are in Scotland. Paoli came to the camp and commended the soldiers.

'Of myself I have no great matter to say, my health is not restored, my nights are restless
and tedious. The best night that I have had these twenty years was at Fort-Augustus[1106].

'I hope soon to send you a few lines to read.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Your most affectionate,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'November 21, 1778.'

About this time the Rev. Mr. John Hussey, who had been some time in trade, and was then a clergyman
of the Church of England, being about to undertake a journey to Aleppo, and other parts of
the East, which he accomplished, Dr. Johnson, (who had long been in habits of intimacy with
him,) honoured him with the following letter:--

'To MR. JOHN HUSSEY.

'DEAR SIR,

'I have sent you the Grammar, and have left you two books more, by which I hope to be remembered;
write my name in them; we may perhaps see each other no more, you part with my good wishes,
nor do I despair of seeing you return. Let no opportunities of vice corrupt you; let no bad
example seduce you; let the blindness of Mahometans confirm you in Christianity. GOD bless
you. We have his own authority[1112], that by his recommendation the poems of Blackmore[1113],
Watts[1114], Pomfret[1115], and Yalden[1116], were added to the collection. Of this work I
shall speak more particularly hereafter.

'MR. BOSWELL TO DR. JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, Feb. 2, 1779.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Garrick's death is a striking event; not that we should be surprised with the death of any
man, who has lived sixty-two years; but because there was a vivacity in our late celebrated
friend, which drove away the thoughts of death from any association with him. I am sure you
will be tenderly affected with his departure[1117]; and I would wish to hear from you upon
the subject. I was obliged to him in my days of effervescence in London, when poor Derrick
was my governour[1118]; and since that time I received many civilities from him. Do you remember
how pleasing it was, when I received a letter from him at Inverary[1119], upon our first return
to civilized living after our Hebridean journey? I shall always remember him with affection
as well as admiration.

'On Saturday last, being the 30th of January[1120], I drank coffee and old port, and had solemn
conversation with the Reverend Mr. Falconer, a nonjuring bishop, a very learned and worthy
man. He gave two toasts, which you will believe I drank with cordiality, Dr. Samuel Johnson,
and Flora Macdonald. I sat about four hours with him, and it was really as if I had been living
in the last century. The Episcopal Church of Scotland, though faithful to the royal house of
Stuart, has never accepted of any conge d'lire, since the Revolution; it is the only true Episcopal
Church in Scotland, as it has its own succession of bishops. For as to the episcopal clergy
who take the oaths to the present government, they indeed follow the rites of the Church of
England, but, as Bishop Falconer observed, "they are not Episcopals; for they are under no
bishop, as a bishop cannot have authority beyond his diocese." This venerable gentleman did
me the honour to dine with me yesterday, and he laid his hands upon the heads of my little
ones. We had a good deal of curious literary conversation, particularly about Mr. Thomas Ruddiman[1121],
with whom he lived in great friendship.

'Any fresh instance of the uncertainty of life makes one embrace more closely a valuable friend.
My dear and much respected Sir, may GOD preserve you long in this world while I am in it.

'I would send sets of Lives, four volumes, to some other friends, to Lord Hailes first. His
second volume lies by my bed-side; a book surely of great labour, and to every just thinker
of great delight. Write me word to whom I shall send besides[1123]; would it please Lord Auchinleck?
Mrs. Thrale waits in the coach.

'I am, dear Sir, &c.,

'SAM.

He observed that his old friend, Mr. Sheridan, had been honoured with extraordinary attention
in his own country, by having had an exception made in his favour in an Irish Act of Parliament
concerning insolvent debtors[1140]. 'Thus to be singled out (said he) by a legislature, as
an object of publick consideration and kindness, is a proof of no common merit.'

At Streatham, on Monday, March 29, at breakfast he maintained that a father had no right to
control the inclinations of his daughters in marriage[1141]. And there is no place where oeconomy
can be so well practised as in London. More can be had here for the money, even by ladies,
than any where else. You cannot play tricks with your fortune in a small place; you must make
an uniform appearance. Here a lady may have well-furnished apartments, and elegant dress, without
any meat in her kitchen.'

I was amused by considering with how much ease and coolness he could write or talk to a friend,
exhorting him not to suppose that happiness was not to be found as well in other places as
in London[1143]; when he himself was at all times sensible of its being, comparatively speaking,
a heaven upon earth[1144]. The truth is, that by those who from sagacity, attention, and experience,
have learnt the full advantage of London, its preeminence over every other place, not only
for variety of enjoyment, but for comfort, will be felt with a philosophical exultation[1145].
The freedom from remark and petty censure, with which life may be passed there, is a circumstance
which a man who knows the teazing restraint of a narrow circle must relish highly. Mr. Burke,
whose orderly and amiable domestic habits might make the eye of observation less irksome to
him than to most men, said once very pleasantly, in my hearing, 'Though I have the honour to
represent Bristol, I should not like to live there; I should be obliged to be so much upon
my good behaviour.' In London, a man may live in splendid society at one time, and in frugal
retirement at another, without animadversion. There, and there alone, a man's own house is
truly his castle, in which he can be in perfect safety from intrusion whenever he pleases.
I never shall forget how well this was expressed to me one day by Mr. Meynell[1146]: 'The chief
advantage of London (said he) is, that a man is always so near his burrow[1147].'

He said of one of his old acquaintances, 'He is very fit for a travelling governour. He knows
French very well. He is a man of good principles; and there would be no danger that a young
gentleman should catch his manner; for it is so very bad, that it must be avoided.

On Saturday, April 3, I visited him at night, and found him sitting in Mrs. Williams's room,
with her, and one who he afterwards told me was a natural son[1155] of the second Lord Southwell.
The table had a singular appearance, being covered with a heterogeneous assemblage of oysters
and porter for his company, and tea for himself. I mentioned my having heard an eminent physician,
who was himself a Christian, argue in favour of universal toleration, and maintain, that no
man could be hurt by another man's differing from him in opinion. JOHNSON. 'Sir, you are to
a certain degree hurt by knowing that even one man does not believe[1156].'

On Easter-day, after solemn service at St. Paul's, I dined with him: Mr. Allen the printer
was also his guest. He was uncommonly silent; and I have not written down any thing, except
a single curious fact, which, having the sanction of his inflexible veracity, may be received
as a striking instance of human insensibility and inconsideration.

A celebrated wit[1182] being mentioned, he said, 'One may say of him as was said of a French
wit, Il n'a de l'esprit que contre Dieu. I have been several times in company with him, but
never perceived any strong power of wit. He produces a general effect by various means; he
has a cheerful countenance and a gay voice. Besides his trade is wit. It would be as wild in
him to come into company without merriment, as for a highwayman to take the road without his
pistols.'

Talking of the effects of drinking, he said, 'Drinking may be practised with great prudence;
a man who exposes himself when he is intoxicated, has not the art of getting drunk; a sober
man who happens occasionally to get drunk, readily enough goes into a new company, which a
man who has been drinking should never do. Such a man will undertake any thing; he is without
skill in inebriation. I used to slink home, when I had drunk too much[1183]. A man accustomed
to self-examination will be conscious when he is drunk, though an habitual drunkard will not
be conscious of it. I knew a physician who for twenty years was not sober; yet in a pamphlet,
which he wrote upon fevers, he appealed to Garrick and me for his vindication from a charge
of drunkenness[1184]. A bookseller (naming him) who got a large fortune by trade[1185], was
so habitually and equably drunk, that his most intimate friends never perceived that he was
more sober at one time than another.'

Talking of celebrated and successful irregular practisers in physick; he said, 'Taylor[1186]
was the most ignorant man I ever knew; but sprightly. I mentioned that an eminent friend of
ours[1189], talking of the common remark, that affection descends, said, that 'this was wisely
contrived for the preservation of mankind; for which it was not so necessary that there should
be affection from children to parents, as from parents to children; nay, there would be no
harm in that view though children should at a certain age eat their parents.' JOHNSON. 'But,
Sir, if this were known generally to be the case, parents would not have affection for children.'
BOSWELL.

He came to me in the evening, and brought Sir Joshua Reynolds. I need scarcely say, that their
conversation, while they sat by my bedside, was the most pleasing opiate to pain that could
have been administered[1192].

On Monday, May 3, I dined with him at Mr. Dilly's[1195]; I pressed him this day for his opinion
on the passage in Parnell, concerning which I had in vain questioned him in several letters,
and at length obtained it in due form of law.

CASE for Dr. JOHNSON'S Opinion; 3rd of May, 1779.

'Is there not a contradiction in its being first supposed that the Hermit knew both what books
and swains reported of the world; yet afterwards said, that he knew it by swains alone?' 'I
think it an inaccuracy.--He mentions two instructors in the first line, and says he had only
one in the next.[1197].'

This evening I set out for Scotland.

'To MRS. LUCY PORTER, IN LICHFIELD.

'DEAR MADAM,

'Mr. Green has informed me that you are much better; I hope I need not tell you that I am glad
of it. I cannot boast of being much better; my old nocturnal complaint still pursues me, and
my respiration is difficult, though much easier than when I left you the summer before last.
Mr. and Mrs. Thrale are well; Miss has been a little indisposed; but she is got well again.
They have since the loss of their boy had two daughters; but they seem likely to want a son.

'I hope you had some books which I sent you. I was sorry for poor Mrs. Adey's death, and am
afraid you will be sometimes solitary; but endeavour, whether alone or in company, to keep
yourself cheerful. My friends likewise die very fast; but such is the state of man.

'I am, dear love,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. I did not write to Johnson, as usual, upon my return to my family, but tried how he would
be affected by my silence. Mr. Dilly sent me a copy of a note which he received from him on
the 13th of July, in these words:--

'TO MR. DILLY.

SIR,

Since Mr. Boswell's departure I have never heard from him; please to send word what you know
of him, and whether you have sent my books to his lady. I am, &c.,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

My readers will not doubt that his solicitude about me was very flattering.

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'What can possibly have happened, that keeps us two such strangers to each other? I expected
to have heard from you when you came home; I expected afterwards. I went into the country and
returned[1200]; and yet there is no letter from Mr. Boswell. No ill I hope has happened; and
if ill should happen, why should it be concealed from him who loves you? Is it a fit of humour,
that has disposed you to try who can hold out longest without writing? If it be, you have the
victory. But I am afraid of something bad; set me free from my suspicions.

'My thoughts are at present employed in guessing the reason of your silence: you must not expect
that I should tell you any thing, if I had any thing to tell. Write, pray write to me, and
let me know what is, or what has been the cause of this long interruption.

'Edinburgh, July 17, 1779.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'What may be justly denominated a supine indolence of mind has been my state of existence since
I last returned to Scotland. In a livelier state I had often suffered severely from long intervals
of silence on your part; and I had even been chided by you for expressing my uneasiness. I
was willing to take advantage of my insensibility, and while I could bear the experiment, to
try whether your affection for me would, after an unusual silence on my part, make you write
first. This afternoon I have had very high satisfaction by receiving your kind letter of inquiry,
for which I most gratefully thank you. I am doubtful if it was right to make the experiment;
though I have gained by it. I was beginning to grow tender, and to upbraid myself, especially
after having dreamt two nights ago that I was with you. I and my wife, and my four children,
are all well. I would not delay one post to answer your letter; but as it is late, I have not
time to do more. You shall soon hear from me, upon many and various particulars; and I shall
never again put you to any test[1201].

I am, with veneration, my dear Sir,

'Your much obliged,

'And faithful humble servant,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

On the 22nd of July, I wrote to him again; and gave him an account of my last interview with
my worthy friend, Mr. Edward Dilly, at his brother's house at Southill, in Bedfordshire, where
he died soon after I parted from him[1202], leaving me a very kind remembrance of his regard.

I informed him that Lord Hailes, who had promised to furnish him with some anecdotes for his
Lives of the Poets, had sent me three instances of Prior's borrowing from Gombauld, in Recueil
des Poetes, tome 3. Epigram To John I owed 'great obligation,' p. 25. To the Duke of Noailles,
p. 32. Sauntering Jack and Idle Joan, p. 25.

My letter was a pretty long one, and contained a variety of particulars; but he, it should
seem, had not attended to it; for his next to me was as follows:--

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'Are you playing the same trick again, and trying who can keep silence longest? Remember that
all tricks are either knavish or childish; and that it is as foolish to make experiments upon
the constancy of a friend, as upon the chastity of a wife.

'What can be the cause of this second fit of silence, I cannot conjecture; but after one trick,
I will not be cheated by another, nor will harass my thoughts with conjectures about the motives
of a man who, probably, acts only by caprice. I therefore suppose you are well, and that Mrs.
Boswell is well too; and that the fine summer has restored Lord Auchinleck. I am much better
than you left me; I think I am better than when I was in Scotland[1203].

'I forgot whether I informed you that poor Thrale has been in great danger[1204]. Mrs. Thrale
likewise has miscarried, and been much indisposed. Every body else is well; Langton is in camp.
I intend to put Lord Hailes's description of Dryden[1205] into another edition, and as I know
his accuracy, wish he would consider the dates, which I could not always settle to my own mind.

'Mr. Thrale goes to Brighthelmston, about Michaelmas, to be jolly and ride a hunting. I shall
go to town, or perhaps to Oxford. Exercise and gaiety, or rather carelessness, will, I hope,
dissipate all remains of his malady; and I likewise hope by the change of place, to find some
opportunities of growing yet better myself. I am, dear Sir,

'Your humble servant,
         'SAM.

On the 20th of September I defended myself against his suspicion of me, which I did not deserve;
and added, 'Pray let us write frequently. A whim strikes me, that we should send off a sheet
once a week, like a stage-coach, whether it be full or not; nay, though it should be empty.
I consulted him as to the appointment of guardians to my children, in case of my death. 'Sir,
(said he,) do not appoint a number of guardians. When there are many, they trust one to another,
and the business is neglected. [1214]

We talked of the state of the poor in London.--JOHNSON.

I read him a letter from Dr. Hugh Blair concerning Pope, (in writing whose life he was now
employed,) which I shall insert as a literary curiosity[1219].

'TO JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ. 'DEAR SIR,

'In the year 1763, being at London, I was carried by Dr. John Blair, Prebendary of Westminster,
to dine at old Lord Bathurst's; where we found the late Mr. Mallet, Sir James Porter, who had
been Ambassadour at Constantinople, the late Dr. Macaulay, and two or three more. The conversation
turning on Mr. Pope, Lord Bathurst told us, that The Essay on Man was originally composed by
Lord Bolingbroke in prose, and that Mr. Pope did no more than put it into verse: that he had
read Lord Bolingbroke's manuscript in his own hand-writing; and remembered well, that he was
at a loss whether most to admire the elegance of Lord Bolingbroke's prose, or the beauty of
Mr. Pope's verse. When Lord Bathurst told this, Mr. Mallet bade me attend, and remember this
remarkable piece of information; as, by the course of Nature, I might survive his Lordship,
and be a witness of his having said so. The conversation was indeed too remarkable to be forgotten.
A few days after, meeting with you, who were then also in London, you will remember that I
mentioned to you what had passed on this subject, as I was much struck with this anecdote.
But what ascertains[1220] my recollection of it beyond doubt, is that being accustomed to keep
a journal of what passed when I was in London, which I wrote out every evening, I find the
particulars of the above information, just as I have now given them, distinctly marked; and
am thence enabled to fix this conversation to have passed on Friday, the 22d of April, 1763.

'I remember also distinctly, (though I have not for this the authority of my journal,) that
the conversation going on concerning Mr. Pope, I took notice of a report which had been sometimes
propagated that he did not understand Greek[1221]. Lord Bathurst said to me, that he knew that
to be false; for that part of the Iliad was translated by Mr. Pope in his house in the country;
and that in the mornings when they assembled at breakfast, Mr. Pope used frequently to repeat,
with great rapture, the Greek lines which he had been translating, and then to give them his
version of them, and to compare them together.

'If these circumstances can be of any use to Dr. Johnson, you have my full liberty to give
them to him. I beg you will, at the same time, present to him my most respectful compliments,
with best wishes for his success and fame in all his literary undertakings. I am, with great
respect, my dearest Sir,

'Your most affectionate,

'And obliged humble servant,

'HUGH BLAIR.'

'Broughton Park,

'Sept. 21, 1779.'

JOHNSON. 'Depend upon it, Sir, this is too strongly stated. Pope may have had from Bolingbroke
the philosophick stamina of his Essay; and admitting this to be true, Lord Bathurst did not
intentionally falsify. But the thing is not true in the latitude that Blair seems to imagine;
we are sure that the poetical imagery, which makes a great part of the poem, was Pope's own[1222].
It is amazing, Sir, what deviations there are from precise truth, in the account which is given
of almost every thing[1223]. I told Mrs. Thrale, "You have so little anxiety about truth, that
you never tax your memory with the exact thing[1224]." Now what is the use of the memory to
truth, if one is careless of exactness? Lord Hailes's Annals of Scotland are very exact; but
they contain mere dry particulars[1225]. They are to be considered as a Dictionary. You know
such things are there; and may be looked at when you please. Robertson paints; but the misfortune
is, you are sure he does not know the people whom he paints; so you cannot suppose a likeness[1226].

I mentioned to him a dispute between a friend of mine and his lady, concerning conjugal infidelity,
which my friend had maintained was by no means so bad in the husband, as in the wife. JOHNSON.
'Your friend was in the right, Sir. Between a man and his Maker it is a different question:
but between a man and his wife, a husband's infidelity is nothing. They are connected by children,
by fortune, by serious considerations of community. Wise married women don't trouble themselves
about the infidelity in their husbands.' BOSWELL. 'To be sure there is a great difference between
the offence of infidelity in a man and that of his wife.' JOHNSON. 'The difference is boundless.
The man imposes no bastards upon his wife[1236].'

Here it may be questioned whether Johnson was entirely in the right. I suppose it will not
be controverted that the difference in the degree of criminality is very great, on account
of consequences: but still it may be maintained, that, independent of moral obligation, infidelity
is by no means a light offence in a husband; because it must hurt a delicate attachment, in
which a mutual constancy is implied, with such refined sentiments as Massinger has exhibited
in his play of The Picture.--Johnson probably at another time would have admitted this opinion.
And let it be kept in remembrance, that he was very careful not to give any encouragement to
irregular conduct. A gentleman[1237], not adverting to the distinction made by him upon this
subject, supposed a case of singular perverseness in a wife, and heedlessly said, 'That then
he thought a husband might do as he pleased with a safe conscience.' JOHNSON. 'Nay, Sir, this
is wild indeed (smiling) you must consider that fornication is a crime[1238] in a single man;
and you cannot have more liberty by being married.'

He this evening expressed himself strongly against the Roman Catholics; observing, 'In every
thing in which they differ from us they are wrong.' He was even against the invocation of saints[1239];
in short, he was in the humour of opposition.

Having regretted to him that I had learnt little Greek, as is too generally the case in Scotland;
that I had for a long time hardly applied at all to the study of that noble language, and that
I was desirous of being told by him what method to follow; he recommended to me as easy helps,
Sylvanus's First Book of the Iliad; Dawson's Lexicon to the Greek New Testament; and Hesiod,
with Pasoris Lexicon at the end of it.

He observed, 'The House of Commons was originally not a privilege of the people, but a check
for the Crown on the House of Lords. I remember Henry the Eighth wanted them to do something;
they hesitated in the morning, but did it in the afternoon. He told them, "It is well you did;
or half your heads should have been upon Temple-bar[1244]."

'Mr. Boswell to Dr. Johnson. 'Chester, October 22, 1779.

'My Dear Sir,

'It was not till one o'clock on Monday morning, that Colonel Stuart and I left London; for
we chose to bid a cordial adieu to Lord Mountstuart, who was to set out on that day on his
embassy to Turin. We drove on excellently, and reached Lichfield in good time enough that night.
The Colonel had heard so preferable a character of the George, that he would not put up at
the Three Crowns, so that I did not see our host Wilkins.[1256] We found at the George as good
accommodation as we could wish to have, and I fully enjoyed the comfortable thought that I
was in Lichfield again. Next morning it rained very hard; and as I had much to do in a little
time, I ordered a post-chaise, and between eight and nine sallied forth to make a round of
visits. I first went to Mr. Green, hoping to have had him to accompany me to all my other friends,
but he was engaged to attend the Bishop of Sodor and Man, who was then lying at Lichfield very
ill of the gout. Having taken a hasty glance at the additions to Green's museum,[1257] from
which it was not easy to break away, I next went to the Friery,[1258] where I at first occasioned
some tumult in the ladies, who were not prepared to receive company so early: but my name,
which has by wonderful felicity come to be closely associated with yours, soon made all easy;
and Mrs. Cobb and Miss Adye re-assumed their seats at the breakfast-table, which they had quitted
with some precipitation. They received me with the kindness of an old acquaintance; and after
we had joined in a cordial chorus to your praise, Mrs. Cobb gave me the high satisfaction of
hearing that you said, "Boswell is a man who I believe never left a house without leaving a
wish for his return." And she afterwards added, that she bid you tell me, that if ever I came
to Lichfield, she hoped I would take a bed at the Friery. From thence I drove to Peter Garrick's,
where I also found a very flattering welcome. He appeared to me to enjoy his usual chearfulness;
and he very kindly asked me to come when I could, and pass a week with him. From Mr. Garrick's,
I went to the Palace to wait on Mr. Seward.[1259] I was first entertained by his lady and daughter,
he himself being in bed with a cold, according to his valetudinary custom. But he desired to
see me; and I found him drest in his black gown, with a white flannel night-gown above it;
so that he looked like a Dominican friar. He was good-humoured and polite; and under his roof
too my reception was very pleasing. I then proceeded to Stow-hill, and first paid my respects
to Mrs. Gastrell,[1260] whose conversation I was not willing to quit. But my sand-glass was
now beginning to run low, as I could not trespass too long on the Colonel's kindness, who obligingly
waited for me; so I hastened to Mrs. Aston's,[1261] whom I found much better than I feared
I should; and there I met a brother-in-law of these ladies, who talked much of you, and very
well too, as it appeared to me. It then only remained to visit Mrs. Lucy Porter, which I did,
I really believe, with sincere satisfaction on both sides. I am sure I was glad to see her
again; and, as I take her to be very honest, I trust she was glad to see me again; for she
expressed herself so, that I could not doubt of her being in earnest. What a great key-stone
of kindness, my dear Sir, were you that morning! for we were all held together by our common
attachment to you. I cannot say that I ever passed two hours with more self-complacency than
I did those two at Lichfield. Let me not entertain any suspicion that this is idle vanity.
Will not you confirm me in my persuasion, that he who finds himself so regarded has just reason
to be happy?

'We got to Chester about midnight on Tuesday; and here again I am in a state of much enjoyment.
Colonel Stuart and his officers treat me with all the civility I could wish; and I play my
part admirably. Laetus aliis, sapiens sibi,[1262] the classical sentence which you, I imagine,
invented the other day, is exemplified in my present existence. The Bishop[1263], to whom I
had the honour to be known several years ago, shews me much attention; and I am edified by
his conversation. I must not omit to tell you, that his Lordship admires, very highly, your
Prefaces to the Poets. I am daily obtaining an extension of agreeable acquaintance, so that
I am kept in animated variety; and the study of the place itself, by the assistance of books,
and of the Bishop, is sufficient occupation. Chester pleases my fancy more than any town I
ever saw. But I will not enter upon it at all in this letter.

'How long I shall stay here I cannot yet say. I told a very pleasing young lady[1264], niece
to one of the Prebendaries, at whose house I saw her, "I have come to Chester, Madam, I cannot
tell how; and far less can I tell how I am to get away from it." Do not think me too juvenile.
I beg it of you, my dear Sir, to favour me with a letter while I am here, and add to the happiness
of a happy friend, who is ever, with affectionate veneration,

'Most sincerely yours, 'James Boswell.'[1265]

'If you do not write directly, so as to catch me here, I shall be disappointed. Two lines from
you will keep my lamp burning bright.'

'To James Boswell, Esq. 'Dear Sir,

'Why should you importune me so earnestly to write? Of what importance can it be to hear of
distant friends, to a man who finds himself welcome wherever he goes, and makes new friends
faster than he can want them? If to the delight of such universal kindness of reception, any
thing can be added by knowing that you retain my good-will, you may indulge yourself in the
full enjoyment of that small addition.

'I am glad that you made the round of Lichfield with so much success: the oftener you are seen,
the more you will be liked. It was pleasing to me to read that Mrs. Aston was so well, and
that Lucy Porter was so glad to see you.

'In the place where you now are, there is much to be observed; and you will easily procure
yourself skilful directors. But what will you do to keep away the black dog[1266] that worries
you at home? If you would, in compliance with your father's advice, enquire into the old tenures
and old charters of Scotland, you would certainly open to yourself many striking scenes of
the manners of the middle ages.[1267] The feudal system, in a country half-barbarous, is naturally
productive of great anomalies in civil life. The knowledge of past times is naturally growing
less in all cases not of publick record; and the past time of Scotland is so unlike the present,
that it is already difficult for a Scotchman to image the oeconomy of his grandfather. Do not
be tardy nor negligent; but gather up eagerly what can yet be found.[1268]

'We have, I think, once talked of another project, a History of the late insurrection in Scotland,
with all its incidents.[1269] Many falsehoods are passing into uncontradicted history. Voltaire,
who loved a striking story, has told what he[1270] could not find to be true. [1271]

'You may make collections for either of these projects, or for both, as opportunities occur,
and digest your materials at leisure. The great direction which Burton has left to men disordered
like you, is this, Be not solitary; be not idle[1272]: which I would thus modify;--If you are
idle, be not solitary; if you are solitary, be not idle.

'There is a letter for you, from
                  'Your humble servant,
                            'Sam. Johnson[1273].'

'London, October 27, 1779.' 'To Dr. Samuel Johnson. 'Carlisle, Nov. 7, 1779.

'My dear Sir,

'That I should importune you to write to me at Chester, is not wonderful, when you consider
what an avidity I have for delight; and that the amor of pleasure, like the amor nummi[1274],
increases in proportion with the quantity which we possess of it. Your letter, so full of polite
kindness and masterly counsel, came like a large treasure upon me, while already glittering
with riches. I was quite enchanted at Chester, so that I could with difficulty quit it. But
the enchantment was the reverse of that of Circe; for so far was there from being any thing
sensual in it, that I was all mind. I do not mean all reason only; for my fancy was kept finely
in play. And why not?--If you please I will send you a copy, or an abridgement of my Chester
journal, which is truly a log-book of felicity.

'The Bishop treated me with a kindness which was very flattering. I told him, that you regretted
you had seen so little of Chester.[1275] His Lordship bade me tell you, that he should be glad
to shew you more of it. I am proud to find the friendship with which you honour me is known
in so many places.

'I arrived here late last night. Our friend the Dean[1276] has been gone from hence some months;
but I am told at my inn, that he is very populous (popular). However, I found Mr. Law, the
Archdeacon, son to the Bishop[1277], and with him I have breakfasted and dined very agreeably.
I got acquainted with him at the assizes here, about a year and a half ago; he is a man of
great variety of knowledge, uncommon genius, and I believe, sincere religion. I received the
holy sacrament in the Cathedral in the morning, this being the first Sunday in the month; and
was at prayers there in the evening. It is divinely cheering to me to think that there is a
Cathedral so near Auchinleck; and I now leave Old England in such a state of mind as I am thankful
to GOD for granting me.

'The black dog that worries me at home I cannot but dread; yet as I have been for some time
past in a military train, I trust I shall repulse him. To hear from you will animate me like
the sound of a trumpet, I therefore hope, that soon after my return to the northern field,
I shall receive a few lines from you.

'Colonel Stuart did me the honour to escort me in his carriage to shew me Liverpool, and from
thence back again to Warrington, where we parted[1278]. In justice to my valuable wife, I must
inform you she wrote to me, that as I was so happy, she would not be so selfish as to wish
me to return sooner than business absolutely required my presence. She made my clerk write
to me a post or two after to the same purpose, by commission from her; and this day a kind
letter from her met me at the Post-Office here, acquainting me that she and the little ones
were well, and expressing all their wishes for my return home. But I wish you to get rid of
all intellectual excesses, and neither to exalt your pleasures, nor aggravate your vexations,
beyond their real and natural state[1279].

'Why should you not be as happy at Edinburgh as at Chester? In culpa est animus, qui se non
effugit usquam[1280]. Please yourself with your wife and children, and studies, and practice.

'I have sent a petition[1281] from Lucy Porter, with which I leave it to your discretion whether
it is proper to comply. Return me her letter, which I have sent, that you may know the whole
case, and not be seduced to any thing that you may afterwards repent. Miss Doxy perhaps you
know to be Mr. Garrick's niece.

'If Dean Percy can be popular at Carlisle, he may be very happy. He has in his disposal two
livings, each equal, or almost equal in value to the deanery; he may take one himself, and
give the other to his son.

'How near is the Cathedral to Auchinleck, that you are so much delighted with it? It is, I
suppose, at least an hundred and fifty miles off[1282]. However, if you are pleased, it is
so far well.

'Let me know what reception you have from your father, and the state of his health. Please
him as much as you can, and add no pain to his last years.

'Of our friends here I can recollect nothing to tell you. I have neither seen nor heard of
Langton. Beauclerk is just returned from Brighthelmston, I am told, much better. Mr. Thrale
and his family are still there; and his health is said to be visibly improved; he has not bathed,
but hunted[1283].

'At Bolt-court there is much malignity, but of late little open hostility[1284]. I have had
a cold, but it is gone.

'Make my compliments to Mrs. Boswell, &c.

'I am, Sir,

'Your humble servant,

'London, Nov. 13, 1779.'

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

On November 22, and December 21, I wrote to him from Edinburgh, giving a very favourable report
of the family of Miss Doxy's lover;--that after a good deal of enquiry I had discovered the
sister of Mr. Francis Stewart[1285], one of his amanuenses when writing his Dictionary;--that
I had, as desired by him, paid her a guinea for an old pocket-book of her brother's which he
had retained; and that the good woman, who was in very moderate circumstances, but contented
and placid, wondered at his scrupulous and liberal honesty, and received the guinea as if sent
her by Providence[1286].--That I had repeatedly begged of him to keep his promise to send me
his letter to Lord Chesterfield, and that this memento, like Delenda est Carthago, must be
in every letter that I should write to him, till I had obtained my object[1287].

I wrote to him on January 1, and March 13, sending him my notes of Lord Marchmont's information
concerning Pope;--complaining that I had not heard from him for almost four months, though
he was two letters in my debt;--that I had suffered again from melancholy;--hoping that he
had been in so much better company, (the Poets,) that he had not time to think of his distant
friends; for if that were the case, I should have some recompence for my uneasiness;--that
the state of my affairs did not admit of my coming to London this year; and begging he would
return me Goldsmith's two poems, with his lines marked[1289]. JOHNSON.'

'January 20, 1780.'

'To JAMES BOSWELL, ESQ.

'DEAR SIR,

'Well, I had resolved to send you the Chesterfield letter; but I will write once again without
it. Never impose tasks upon mortals. To require two things is the way to have them both undone.

'For the difficulties which you mention in your affairs I am sorry; but difficulty is now very
general: it is not therefore less grievous, for there is less hope of help. I pretend not to
give you advice, not knowing the state of your affairs; and general counsels about prudence
and frugality would do you little good. You are, however, in the right not to increase your
own perplexity by a journey hither; and I hope that by staying at home you will please your father.

'Poor dear Beauclerk[1291]--nec, ut soles, dabis joca[1292]. His wit and his folly, his acuteness
and maliciousness, his merriment and reasoning, are now over. Such another will not often be
found among mankind. He directed himself to be buried by the side of his mother, an instance
of tenderness which I hardly expected[1293]. He has left his children to the care of Lady Di,
and if she dies, of Mr. Langton, and of Mr. Leicester his relation, and a man of good character.
His library has been offered to sale to the Russian ambassador[1294].

'Dr. Percy, notwithstanding all the noise of the newspapers, has had no literary loss[1295].
Clothes and moveables were burnt to the value of about one hundred pounds; but his papers,
and I think his books, were all preserved.

'Poor Mr. Thrale has been in extreme danger from an apoplectical disorder, and recovered, beyond
the expectation of his physicians; he is now at Bath, that his mind may be quiet, and Mrs.
Thrale and Miss are with him.

'Having told you what has happened to your friends, let me say something to you of yourself.
You are always complaining of melancholy, and I conclude from those complaints that you are
fond of it. No man talks of that which he is desirous to conceal, and every man desires to
conceal that of which he is ashamed.[1296] Do not pretend to deny it; manifestum habemus furem;
make it an invariable and obligatory law to yourself, never to mention your own mental diseases;
if you are never to speak of them, you will think on them but little, and if you think little
of them, they will molest you rarely. When you talk of them, it is plain that you want either
praise or pity; for praise there is no room, and pity will do you no good; therefore, from
this hour speak no more, think no more, about them[1297].

'Your transaction with Mrs. Stewart gave me great satisfaction; I am much obliged to you for
your attention. Do not lose sight of her; your countenance may be of great credit, and of consequence
of great advantage to her. The memory of her brother is yet fresh in my mind; he was an ingenious
and worthy man.

'Please to make my compliments to your lady, and to the young ladies. I should like to see
them, pretty loves.

'I am, dear Sir,

'Yours affectionately,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 8, 1780.'

Mrs. Thrale being now at Bath with her husband, the correspondence between Johnson and her
was carried on briskly. I shall present my readers with one of her original letters to him
at this time, which will amuse them probably more than those well-written but studied epistles
which she has inserted in her collection, because it exhibits the easy vivacity of their literary
intercourse. It is also of value as a key to Johnson's answer, which she has printed by itself,
and of which I shall subjoin extracts.

'MRS. THRALE TO DR. JOHNSON.

'I had a very kind letter from you yesterday, dear Sir, with a most circumstantial date[1298].
You took trouble with my circulating letter, [1299] Mr. Evans writes me word, and I thank you
sincerely for so doing: one might do mischief else not being on the spot.

'Yesterday's evening was passed at Mrs. Montagu's: there was Mr. Melmoth;[1300] I do not like
him though, nor he me; it was expected we should have pleased each other; he is, however, just
Tory enough to hate the Bishop of Peterborough[1301] for Whiggism, and Whig enough to abhor
you for Toryism.

'Mrs. Montagu flattered him finely; so he had a good afternoon on't. This evening we spend
at a concert. Poor Queeney's[1302] sore eyes have just released her; she had a long confinement,
and could neither read nor write, so my master[1303] treated her very good-naturedly with the
visits of a young woman in this town, a taylor's daughter, who professes musick, and teaches
so as to give six lessons a day to ladies, at five and threepence a lesson. Miss Burney says
she is a great performer; and I respect the wench for getting her living so prettily; she is
very modest and pretty-mannered, and not seventeen years old.

'You live in a fine whirl indeed; if I did not write regularly you would half forget me, and
that would be very wrong, for I felt my regard for you in my face last night, when the criticisms
were going on.

'This morning it was all connoisseurship; we went to see some pictures painted by a gentleman-artist,
Mr. Taylor, of this place; my master makes one, every where, and has got a good dawling[1304]
companion to ride with him now. He looks well enough, but I have no notion of health for a
man whose mouth cannot be sewed up.[1305] Burney[1306] and I and Queeney teize him every meal
he eats, and Mrs. Montagu is quite serious with him; but what can one do? He will eat, I think,
and if he does eat I know he will not live; it makes me very unhappy, but I must bear it. Let
me always have your friendship. I am, most sincerely, dear Sir,

'Your faithful servant,

'H. L. T.'

'Bath, Friday, April 28.'

'DR. JOHNSON TO MRS. THRALE.

'DEAREST MADAM,

'Mr. Thrale never will live abstinently, till he can persuade himself to live by rule[1307].

       *       *       *       *       *

Encourage, as you can, the musical girl.

'Nothing is more common than mutual dislike, where mutual approbation is particularly expected.
There is often on both sides a vigilance not over-benevolent; and as attention is strongly
excited, so that nothing drops unheeded, any difference in taste or opinion, and some difference
where there is no restraint will commonly appear, immediately generates dislike.

'Never let criticisms operate upon your face or your mind; it is very rarely that an authour
is hurt by his criticks. The blaze of reputation cannot be blown out, but it often dies in
the socket[1308]; a very few names may be considered as perpetual lamps that shine unconsumed.
From the authour of Fitzosborne's Letters I cannot think myself in much danger. I met him only
once about thirty years ago, and in some small dispute reduced him to whistle; having not seen
him since, that is the last impression. Poor Moore, the fabulist[1309], was one of the company.

'Mrs. Montagu's long stay, against her own inclination, is very convenient. Without attempting
to detail the particulars of the conversation, which perhaps if I did, I should spin my account
out to a tedious length, I thought, my dear Sir, this general account of the respect with which
our valued friend was attended to, might be acceptable[1320].'

'To THE REVEREND DR. FARMER.

'May 25, 1780.

Sir,

'I know your disposition to second any literary attempt, and therefore venture upon the liberty
of entreating you to procure from College or University registers, all the dates, or other
informations which they can supply, relating to Ambrose Philips, Broome, and Gray, who were
all of Cambridge, and of whose lives I am to give such accounts as I can gather. Be pleased
to forgive this trouble from, Sir,

'Your most humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

While Johnson was thus engaged in preparing a delightful literary entertainment for the world,
the tranquillity of the metropolis of Great-Britain was unexpectedly disturbed, by the most
horrid series of outrage that ever disgraced a civilised country. A relaxation of some of the
severe penal provisions against our fellow-subjects of the Catholic communion had been granted
by the legislature, with an opposition so inconsiderable that the genuine mildness of Christianity,
united with liberal policy, seemed to have become general in this island[1321]. But a dark
and malignant spirit of persecution soon shewed itself, in an unworthy petition for the repeal
of the wise and humane statute. That petition was brought forward by a mob, with the evident
purpose of intimidation, and was justly rejected. But the attempt was accompanied and followed
by such daring violence as is unexampled in history. Of this extraordinary tumult, Dr. Johnson
has given the following concise, lively, and just account in his Letters to Mrs. Thrale[1322]:--

'On Friday[1323], the good Protestants met in Saint George's-Fields, at the summons of Lord
George Gordon, and marching to Westminster, insulted the Lords and Commons, who all bore it
with great tameness. At night the outrages began by the demolition of the mass-house by Lincoln's-Inn.'

'An exact journal of a week's defiance of government I cannot give you. On Monday, Mr. Strahan[1324],
who had been insulted, spoke to Lord Mansfield, who had I think been insulted too, of the licentiousness
of the populace; and his Lordship treated it as a very slight irregularity. On Tuesday night[1325]
they pulled down Fielding's house, and burnt his goods in the street. They had gutted on Monday
Sir George Savile's house, but the building was saved. On Tuesday evening, leaving Fielding's
ruins, they went to Newgate to demand their companions who had been seized demolishing the
chapel. The keeper could not release them but by the Mayor's permission, which he went to ask;
at his return he found all the prisoners released, and Newgate in a blaze. They then went to
Bloomsbury, and fastened upon Lord Mansfield's house, which they pulled down; and as for his
goods, they totally burnt them[1326]. They have since gone to Caen-wood, but a guard was there
before them. They plundered some Papists, I think, and burnt a mass-house[1327] in Moorfields
the same night.'

'On Wednesday I walked with Dr. Scott to look at Newgate, and found it in ruins, with the fire
yet glowing. As I went by, the Protestants were plundering the Sessions-house at the Old-Bailey.
There were not, I believe, a hundred; but they did their work at leisure, in full security,
without sentinels, without trepidation, as men lawfully employed, in full day. Such is the
cowardice of a commercial place. On Wednesday they broke open the Fleet, and the King's-Bench,
and the Marshalsea, and Wood-street Compter, and Clerkenwell Bridewell, and released all the
prisoners[1328].'

'At night they set fire to the Fleet, and to the King's-Bench, and I know not how many other
places; and one might see the glare of conflagration fill the sky from many parts. The sight
was dreadful. Some people were threatened: Mr. Strahan advised me to take care of myself. Such
a time of terrour you have been happy in not seeing.'

'The King said in Council, "That the magistrates had not done their duty, but that he would
do his own;" and a proclamation was published, directing us to keep our servants within doors,
as the peace was now to be preserved by force. The soldiers were sent out to different parts,
and the town is now [June 9] at quiet.'

'The soldiers[1329] are stationed so as to be every where within call: there is no longer any
body of rioters, and the individuals are hunted to their holes, and led to prison; Lord George
was last night sent to the Tower. Mr. John Wilkes was this day[1330] in my neighbourhood, to
seize the publisher of a seditious paper.'

'Several chapels have been destroyed, and several inoffensive Papists have been plundered;
but the high sport was to burn the gaols. This was a good rabble trick. The debtors and the
criminals were all set at liberty; but of the criminals, as has always happened, many are already
retaken; and two pirates have surrendered themselves, and it is expected that they will be
pardoned.'

'Government now acts again with its proper force; and we are all[1331] under the protection
of the King and the law. I thought that it would be agreeable to you and my master to have
my testimony to the publick security; and that you would sleep more quietly when I told you
that you are safe.'

'There has, indeed, been an universal panick from which the King was the first that recovered.
Without the concurrence of his ministers, or the assistance of the civil magistrate, he put
the soldiers in motion, and saved the town from calamities, such as a rabble's government must
naturally produce.'

'The publick[1332] has escaped a very heavy calamity. The rioters attempted the Bank on Wednesday
night, but in no great number; and like other thieves, with no great resolution. Jack Wilkes
headed the party that drove them away. It is agreed, that if they had seized the Bank on Tuesday,
at the height of the panick, when no resistance had been prepared, they might have carried
irrecoverably away whatever they had found. Jack, who was always zealous for order and decency,[1333]
declares that if he be trusted with power, he will not leave a rioter alive. There is, however,
now no longer any need of heroism or bloodshed; no blue ribband[1334] is any longer worn[1335].'

Such was the end of this miserable sedition, from which London was delivered by the magnanimity
of the Sovereign himself. Whatever some may maintain, I am satisfied that there was no combination
or plan, either domestic or foreign; but that the mischief spread by a gradual contagion of
frenzy, augmented by the quantities of fermented liquors, of which the deluded populace possessed
themselves in the course of their depredations.

I should think myself very much to blame, did I here neglect to do justice to my esteemed friend
Mr. Akerman, the keeper of Newgate, who long discharged a very important trust with an uniform
intrepid firmness, and at the same time a tenderness and a liberal charity, which entitle him
to be recorded with distinguished honour[1336].

Upon this occasion, from the timidity and negligence of magistracy on the one hand, and the
almost incredible exertions of the mob on the other, the first prison of this great country
was laid open, and the prisoners set free; but that Mr. Akerman, whose house was burnt, would
have prevented all this, had proper aid been sent to him in due time, there can be no doubt.

Many years ago, a fire broke out in the brick part which was built as an addition to the old
gaol of Newgate. The prisoners were in consternation and tumult, calling out, 'We shall be
burnt--we shall be burnt! Down with the gate--down with the gate!' Mr. Akerman hastened to
them, shewed himself at the gate, and having, after some confused vociferation of 'Hear him--hear
him!' obtained a silent attention, he then calmly told them, that the gate must not go down;
that they were under his care, and that they should not be permitted to escape: but that he
could assure them, they need not be afraid of being burnt, for that the fire was not in the
prison, properly so called, which was strongly built with stone; and that if they would engage
to be quiet, he himself would come in to them, and conduct them to the further end of the building,
and would not go out till they gave him leave. To this proposal they agreed; upon which Mr.
Akerman, having first made them fall back from the gate, went in, and with a determined resolution,
ordered the outer turnkey upon no account to open the gate, even though the prisoners (though
he trusted they would not) should break their word, and by force bring himself to order it.
'Never mind me, (said he,) should that happen.' The prisoners peaceably followed him, while
he conducted them through passages of which he had the keys, to the extremity of the gaol which
was most distant from the fire. Having, by this very judicious conduct, fully satisfied them
that there was no immediate risk, if any at all, he then addressed them thus: 'Gentlemen, you
are now convinced that I told you true. I have no doubt that the engines will soon extinguish
this fire; if they should not, a sufficient guard will come, and you shall all be taken out
and lodged in the Compters[1337]. I assure you, upon my word and honour, that I have not a
farthing insured. I have left my house, that I might take care of you. I will keep my promise,
and stay with you if you insist upon it; but if you will allow me to go out and look after
my family and property, I shall[1338] be obliged to you.' Struck with his behaviour, they called
out, 'Master Akerman, you have done bravely; it was very kind in you: by all means go and take
care of your own concerns.' He did so accordingly, while they remained, and were all preserved.

Johnson has been heard to relate the substance of this story with high praise, in which he
was joined by Mr. Burke. My illustrious friend, speaking of Mr. Akerman's kindness to his prisoners,
pronounced this eulogy upon his character:--'He who has long had constantly in his view the
worst of mankind, and is yet eminent for the humanity of his disposition, must have had it
originally in a great degree, and continued to cultivate it very carefully[1339].'

In the course of this month my brother David waited upon Dr. Johnson, with the following letter
of introduction, which I had taken care should be lying ready on his arrival in London.

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'Edinburgh, April 29, 1780.

'MY DEAR SIR,

'This will be delivered to you by my brother David, on his return from Spain. You will be glad
to see the man who vowed to "stand by the old castle of Auchinleck, with heart, purse, and
sword;" that romantick family solemnity devised by me, of which you and I talked with complacency
upon the spot. I trust that twelve years of absence have not lessened his feudal attachment;
and that you will find him worthy of being introduced to your acquaintance. He is a very agreeable
man, and speaks no Scotch.'

'To DR. BEATTIE, AT ABERDEEN.

'Sir,

'More years[1342] than I have any delight to reckon, have past since you and I saw one another;
of this, however, there is no reason for making any reprehensory complaint--Sic fata ferunt[1343].
But methinks there might pass some small interchange of regard between us. If you say, that
I ought to have written, I now write; and I write to tell you, that I have much kindness for
you and Mrs. Beattie; and that I wish your health better, and your life long. Try change of
air, and come a few degrees Southwards: a softer climate may do you both good; winter is coming
on; and London will be warmer, and gayer, and busier, and more fertile of amusement than Aberdeen.

'My health is better; but that will be little in the balance, when I tell you that Mrs. Montagu
has been very ill, and is I doubt now but weakly. Mr. Thrale has been very dangerously disordered;
but is much better, and I hope will totally recover. He has withdrawn himself from business
the whole summer.

'DEAR SIR,

'I find you have taken one of your fits of taciturnity, and have resolved not to write till
you are written to; it is but a peevish humour, but you shall have your way.

'I have sat at home in Bolt-court, all the summer, thinking to write the Lives, and a great
part of the time only thinking. Several of them, however, are done, and I still think to do
the rest.

'Mr. Thrale and his family have, since his illness, passed their time first at Bath, and then
at Brighthelmston; but I have been at neither place. I would have gone to Lichfield, if I could
have had time, and I might have had time if I had been active; but I have missed much, and
done little.

'In the late disturbances, Mr. Thrale's house and stock were in great danger; the mob was pacified
at their first invasion, with about fifty pounds in drink and meat; and at their second, were
driven away by the soldiers[1347]. Mr. Strahan got a garrison into his house, and maintained
them a fortnight; he was so frighted that he removed part of his goods. Mrs. Williams took
shelter in the country.

'I know not whether I shall get a ramble this autumn[1348]; it is now about the time when we
were travelling. I have, however, better health than I had then, and hope you and I may yet
shew ourselves on some part of Europe, Asia, or Africa[1349]. In the mean time let us play
no trick, but keep each other's kindness by all means in our power.

'The bearer of this is Dr. Dunbar, of Aberdeen, who has written and published a very ingenious
book[1350], and who I think has a kindness for me, and will, when he knows you, have a kindness
for you.

'I suppose your little ladies are grown tall; and your son is become a learned young man. I
love them all, and I love your naughty lady, whom I never shall persuade to love me. When the
Lives are done, I shall send them to complete her collection, but must send them in paper,
as for want of a pattern, I cannot bind them to fit the rest.

'I am, Sir, 'Yours most affectionately, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'London, Aug. 21, 1780.'

This year he wrote to a young clergyman[1351] in the country, the following very excellent
letter, which contains valuable advice to Divines in general:--

'Dear Sir,

'Not many days ago Dr. Lawrence shewed me a letter, in which you make mention of me: I hope,
therefore, you will not be displeased that I endeavour to preserve your good-will by some observations
which your letter suggested to me.

'You are afraid of falling into some improprieties in the daily service by reading to an audience
that requires no exactness. Your fear, I hope, secures you from danger. They who contract absurd
habits are such as have no fear. It is impossible to do the same thing very often, without
some peculiarity of manner: but that manner may be good or bad, and a little care will at least
preserve it from being bad: to make it good, there must, I think, be something of natural or
casual felicity, which cannot be taught.

'Your present method of making your sermons seems very judicious. Few frequent preachers can
be supposed to have sermons more their own than yours will be. Take care to register, somewhere
or other, the authours from whom your several discourses are borrowed; and do not imagine that
you shall always remember, even what perhaps you now think it impossible to forget.

'My advice, however, is, that you attempt, from time to time, an original sermon; and in the
labour of composition, do not burthen your mind with too much at once; do not exact from yourself
at one effort of excogitation, propriety of thought and elegance of expression. Invent first,
and then embellish. The production of something, where nothing was before, is an act of greater
energy than the expansion or decoration of the thing produced. Set down diligently your thoughts
as they rise, in the first words that occur; and, when you have matter, you will easily give
it form: nor, perhaps, will this method be always necessary; for by habit, your thoughts and
diction will flow together[1352].

'The composition of sermons is not very difficult: the divisions not only help the memory of
the hearer, but direct the judgement of the writer; they supply sources of invention, and keep
every part in its proper place.

'What I like least in your letter is your account of the manners of your parish; from which
I gather, that it has been long neglected by the parson. The Dean of Carlisle[1353], who was
then a little rector in Northamptonshire[1354], told me, that it might be discerned whether
or no there was a clergyman resident in a parish by the civil or savage manner of the people.
Such a congregation as yours stands in need of much reformation; and I would not have you think
it impossible to reform them. A very savage parish was civilised by a decayed gentlewoman,
who came among them to teach a petty school. My learned friend Dr. Wheeler[1355] of Oxford,
when he was a young man, had the care of a neighbouring parish for fifteen pounds a year, which
he was never paid; but he counted it a convenience that it compelled him to make a sermon weekly.
One woman he could not bring to the communion; and, when he reproved or exhorted her, she only
answered, that she was no scholar. He was advised to set some good woman or man of the parish,
a little wiser than herself, to talk to her in a language level to her mind. Such honest, I
may call them holy artifices, must be practised by every clergyman; for all means must be tried
by which souls may be saved[1356]. Talk to your people, however, as much as you can; and you
will find, that the more frequently you converse with them upon religious subjects, the more
willingly they will attend, and the more submissively they will learn. A clergyman's diligence
always makes him venerable. I think I have now only to say, that in the momentous work you
have undertaken, I pray GOD to bless you.

'I am, Sir, 'Your most humble servant, 'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'Bolt-court, Aug. 30, 1780.'

My next letters to him were dated August 24, September 6, and October 1, and from them I extract
the following passages:--

'My brother David and I find the long indulged fancy of our comfortable meeting again at Auchinleck,
so well realised, that it in some degree confirms the pleasing hope of O! preclarum diem![1357]
in a future state.'

'I beg that you may never again harbour a suspicion of my indulging a peevish humour, or playing
tricks; you will recollect that when I confessed to you, that I had once been intentionally
silent to try your regard, I gave you my word and honour that I would not do so again[1358].'

'I rejoice to hear of your good state of health; I pray GOD to continue it long. I have often
said, that I would willingly have ten years added to my life, to have ten taken from yours;
I mean, that I would be ten years older to have you ten years younger. But let me be thankful
for the years during which I have enjoyed your friendship, and please myself with the hopes
of enjoying it many years to come in this state of being, trusting always, that in another
state, we shall meet never to be separated. Of this we can form no notion; but the thought,
though indistinct, is delightful, when the mind is calm and clear[1359].'

'The riots in London were certainly horrible; but you give me no account of your own situation,
during the barbarous anarchy. A description of it by DR. JOHNSON would be a great painting[1360];
you might write another London, a Poem.'

'I am charmed with your condescending affectionate expression, "let us keep each other's kindness
by all the means in our power;" my revered Friend! how elevating is it to my mind, that I am
found worthy to be a companion to Dr. Samuel Johnson! All that you have said in grateful praise
of Mr. Walmsley,[1361] I have long thought of you; but we are both Tories,[1362] which has
a very general influence upon our sentiments. I hope that you will agree to meet me at York,
about the end of this month; or if you will come to Carlisle, that would be better still, in
case the Dean be there. Please to consider, that to keep each other's kindness, we should every
year have that free and intimate communication of mind which can be had only when we are together.
We should have both our solemn and our pleasant talk.'

'I write now for the third time, to tell you that my desire for our meeting this autumn, is
much increased. I wrote to Squire Godfrey Bosville[1363], my Yorkshire chief, that I should,
perhaps, pay him a visit, as I was to hold a conference with Dr. Johnson at York. I give you
my word and honour that I said not a word of his inviting you; but he wrote to me as follows:--

'"I need not tell you I shall be happy to see you here the latter end of this month, as you
propose; and I shall likewise be in hopes that you will persuade Dr. Johnson to finish the
conference here. It will add to the favour of your own company, if you prevail upon such an
associate, to assist your observations. I have often been entertained with his writings, and
I once belonged to a club of which he was a member, and I never spent an evening there, but
I heard something from him well worth remembering."

'We have thus, my dear Sir, good comfortable quarters in the neighbourhood of York, where you
may be assured we shall be heartily welcome. I pray you then resolve to set out; and let not
the year 1780 be a blank in our social calendar, and in that record of wisdom and wit, which
I keep with so much diligence, to your honour, and the instruction and delight of others.'

Mr. Thrale had now another contest for the representation in parliament of the borough of Southwark,
and Johnson kindly lent him his assistance, by writing advertisements and letters for him.
I shall insert one as a specimen:

'TO THE WORTHY ELECTORS OF THE BOROUGH OF SOUTHWARK.

'GENTLEMEN,

'A new Parliament being now called, I again solicit the honour of being elected for one of
your representatives; and solicit it with the greater confidence, as I am not conscious of
having neglected my duty, or of having acted otherwise than as becomes the independent representative
of independent constituents; superiour to fear, hope, and expectation, who has no private purposes
to promote, and whose prosperity is involved in the prosperity of his country. As my recovery
from a very severe distemper is not yet perfect, I have declined to attend the Hall, and hope
an omission so necessary will not be harshly censured.

'I can only send my respectful wishes, that all your deliberations may tend to the happiness
of the kingdom, and the peace of the borough.

'DEAR SIR,

'I am sorry to write you a letter that will not please you, and yet it is at last what I resolve
to do. This year must pass without an interview; the summer has been foolishly lost, like many
other of my summers and winters. I hardly saw a green field, but staid in town to work, without
working much.

'Mr. Thrale's loss of health has lost him the election;[1369] he is now going to Brighthelmston,
and expects me to go with him; and how long I shall stay, I cannot tell. I do not much like
the place, but yet I shall go, and stay while my stay is desired. We must, therefore, content
ourselves with knowing what we know as well as man can know the mind of man, that we love one
another, and that we wish each other's happiness, and that the lapse of a year cannot lessen
our mutual kindness.

'I was pleased to be told that I accused Mrs. Boswell unjustly, in supposing that she bears
me ill-will. I love you so much, that I would be glad to love all that love you, and that you
love; and I have love very ready for Mrs. Boswell, if she thinks it worthy of acceptance. I
hope all the young ladies and gentlemen are well.

'I take a great liking to your brother. He tells me that his father received him kindly, but
not fondly; however, you seem to have lived well enough at Auchinleck, while you staid. Make
your father as happy as you can.

'You lately told me of your health: I can tell you in return, that my health has been for more
than a year past, better than it has been for many years before. Perhaps it may please GOD
to give us some time together before we are parted.

'I am, dear Sir, 'Yours most affectionately, 'SAM. JOHNSON.' 'October 17, 1780.'

APPENDIX A.

(Page 314.)

The alehouse in the city where Johnson used to go and sit with George Psalmanazar was, no doubt,
the club in Old Street, where he met also 'the metaphysical tailor,' the uncle of Hoole the
poet (post, under March 30, 1783). Psalmanazar is mentioned a third time by Boswell (post,
May 15, 1784) in a passage borrowed from Hawkins's edition of Johnson's Works, xi. 206, where
it is stated that 'Johnson said: "He had never seen the close of the life of any one that he
wished so much his own to resemble as that of him, for its purity and devotion." He was asked
whether he ever contradicted him. "I should as soon," said he, "have thought of contradicting
a bishop." When he was asked whether he had ever mentioned Formosa before him, he said, "he
was afraid to mention even China."' We learn from Hawkins's Life of Johnson, p. 547, that 'Psalmanazar
lived in Ironmonger Row, Old Street; in the neighbourhood whereof he was so well known and
esteemed, that, as Dr. Hawkesworth once told me, scarce any person, even children, passed him
without shewing him the usual signs of respect.' In the list of the writers of the Universal
History that Johnson drew up a few days before his death his name is given as the historian
of the Jews, Gauls, and Spaniards (post, November, 1784). According to Mrs. Piozzi (Anecdotes,
p. 175):--'His pious and patient endurance of a tedious illness, ending in an exemplary death,
confirmed the strong impression his merit had made upon the mind of Mr. Johnson. "It is so
very difficult," said he always, "for a sick man not to be a scoundrel."' Johnson, in Prayers
and Meditations, p. 102, mentions him as a man 'whose life was, I think, uniform.' Smollett,
in Humphry Clinker (in Melford's Letter of June 10), describes him as one 'who, after having
drudged half a century in the literary mill, in all the simplicity and abstinence of an Asiatic,
subsists upon the charity of a few booksellers, just sufficient to keep him from the parish.'
A writer in the Annual Register for 1764 (ii. 71), speaking of the latter part of his life,
says:--'He was concerned in compiling and writing works of credit, and lived exemplarily for
many years.' He died a few days before that memorable sixteenth day of May 1763, when Boswell
first met Johnson. It is a pity that no record has been kept of the club meetings in Ironmonger
Row, for then we should have seen Johnson in a new light. Johnson in an alehouse club, with
a metaphysical tailor on one side of him, and an aged writer on the other side of him, 'who
spoke English with the city accent and coarsely enough,'[1370] and whom he would never venture
to contradict, is a Johnson that we cannot easily imagine.

Of the greater part of Psalmanazar's life we know next to nothing--little, I believe, beyond
the few facts that I have here gathered together. His early years he has described in his Memoirs.
That he started as one of the most shameless impostors, and that he remained a hypocrite and
a cheat till he was fully forty, if not indeed longer, his own narrative shows. That for many
years he lived laboriously, frugally, and honestly seems to be no less certain. How far his
Memoirs are truthful is somewhat doubtful. In them he certainly confesses the impudent trick
which he had played in his youth, when he passed himself off as a Formosan convert. He wished,
he writes, 'to undeceive the world by unravelling that whole mystery of iniquity' (p. 5). He
lays bare roguery enough, and in a spirit, it seems, of real sorrow. Nevertheless there are
passages which are not free from the leaven of hypocrisy, and there are, I suspect, statements
which are at least partly false. So gross is the forgery that it almost passes belief that
it was widely accepted as a true narrative. He gave himself out as a native of that island
and a convert to Christianity. He lied so foolishly as to maintain that in the Academies of
Formosa Greek was studied (p. 290). He asserted also that in an island that is only about half
as large as Ireland 18,000 boys were sacrificed every year (p. 176). But his readers were for
the most part only too willing to be deceived; for in Protestant England his abuse of the Jesuits
covered a multitude of lies. Ere he had been three months in London, he was, he writes (Memoirs,
p. 179), 'cried up for a prodigy, and not only the domestic, but even the foreign papers had
helped to blaze forth many things in his praise.' He was aided in his fraud by the Rev. Dr.
Innes, or Innys, a clergyman of the English Church, who by means of his interesting convert
pushed himself into the notice of Compton, Bishop of London, and before long was made chaplain-general
to the English forces in Portugal (Memoirs, p. 191). The same man, as Boswell tells us (ante,
i. 359), by another impudent cheat, a second time obtained 'considerable promotion.' Psalmanazar's
book soon reached a second edition, 'besides the several versions it had abroad' (p. 5). Yet
it is very dull reading--just such a piece of work as might be looked for from a young man
of little fancy, but gifted with a strong memory. Nevertheless, the author's credit lasted
so long, that for many years he lived on a subscription 'which was founded on a belief of his
being a Formosan and a real convert to the Church of England' (p. 208). He was even sent to
Oxford to study, and had rooms in one of the colleges--Christ Church, if I mistake not (p.
186). It was not only as a student that he was sent by his dupes to that ancient seat of learning;
the Bishop of London hoped that he would 'teach the Formosan language to a set of gentlemen
who were afterwards to go with him to convert those people to Christianity' (p. 161).

While he was living the life of a lying scoundrel, he was, he says (p. 192), 'happily restrained
by Divine Grace,' so that 'all sense of remorse was not extinguished,' and there was no fall
into 'downright infidelity.' At length he picked up Law's Serious Call, which moved him, as
later on it moved better men (ante, i. 68). Step by step he got into a way of steady work,
and lived henceforth a laborious and honest life. It was in the year 1728, thirty-five years
before his death, that he began, he says, to write the narrative of his imposture (p. 59).
A dangerous illness and the dread of death had deeply moved him, and filled him with the desire
of leaving behind 'a faithful narrative' which would 'undeceive the world.' Nineteen years
later, though he did not publish his narrative, he made a public confession of his guilt. In
the unsigned article on Formosa, which he wrote in 1747 for Bowen's Complete System of Geography
(ii. 251), he says, 'Psalmanaazaar [so he had at one time written his name] hath long since
ingenuously owned the contrary [of the truthfulness of his narrative] though not in so public
a manner, as he might perhaps have done, had not such an avowment been likely to have affected
some few persons who for private ends took advantage of his youthful vanity to encourage him
in an imposture, which he might otherwise never had the thought, much less the confidence,
to have carried on. These persons being now dead, and out of all danger of being hurt by it,
he now gives us leave to assure the world that the greatest part of that account was fabulous
... and that he designs to leave behind him a faithful account of that unhappy step, and other
particulars of his life leading to it, to be published after his death.'

In his Memoirs he will not, he writes (p. 59), give any account 'of his real country or family.'
Yet it is quite clear from his own narrative that he was born in the south of France. 'His
pronunciation of French had,' it was said, 'a spice of the Gascoin accent, and in that provincial
dialect he was so masterly that none but those born in the country could excel him' (Preface,
p. 1). If a town can be found that answers to all that he tells of his birth-place, his whole
account may be true; but the circumstances that he mentions seem inconsistent. The city in
which he was born was twenty-four miles from an archiepiscopal city in which there was a college
of Jesuits (p. 67), and about sixty miles from 'a noble great city full of gentry and nobility,
of coaches, and all kinds of grandeur,' the seat of a great university (pp. 76, 83). When he
left the great city for Avignon he speaks of himself as 'going down to Avignon' (p. 87). Thence
he started on a pilgrimage to Rome, and in order to avoid his native place, after he had gone
no great way, 'he wheeled about to the left, to leave the place at some twenty or thirty miles
distance' (p. 101). He changed his mind, however, and returned home. Thence he set off to join
his father, who was 'near 500 miles off' in Germany (p. 60). 'The direct route was through
the great university city' and Lyons (p. 104). His birth-place then, if his account is true,
was on the road from Avignon to Rome, sixty miles from a great university city and southwards
of it, for through this university city passed the direct road from his home to Lyons. It was,
moreover, sixty miles from an archiepiscopal city. I do not think that such a place can be
found. He says (p. 59) that he thought himself 'obliged out of respect to his country and family
to conceal both, it being but too common, though unjust, to censure them for the crimes of
private persons.' The excuse seems unsatisfactory, for he tells enough to shew that he came
from the South of France, while for his family there was no need of care. It was, he writes,
'ancient but decayed,' and he was the only surviving child. Of his father and mother he had
heard nothing since he started on the career of a pious rogue. They must have been dead very
many years by the time his Memoirs were given to the world. His story shews that at all events
for the first part of his life he had been one of the vainest of men, and vanity is commonly
found joined with a love of mystery. He is not consistent, moreover, in his dates. On April
23, 1752, he was in the 73rd year of his age (p. 7); so that he was born in either 1679 or
1680. When he joined his father he was 'hardly full sixteen years old' (p. 112); yet it was
a few years after the Peace of Ryswick, which was signed on September 22, 1697. He was, he
says, 'but near twenty' when he wrote his History of Formosa (p. 184). This was in the year 1704.

With his father he stayed but a short time, and then set out rambling northwards. At Avignon,
by shameless lying, he had obtained a pass 'as a young student in theology, of Irish extract
[sic] who had left his country for the sake of religion' (p. 98). It was wonderful that his
fraud had escaped detection there, for he had kept his own name, 'because it had something
of quality in it' (p. 99). He now resolved on a more impudent pretence; for 'passing as an
Irishman and a sufferer for religion, did not only,' he writes, 'expose me to the danger of
being discovered, but came short of the merit and admiration I had expected from it' (p. 112).
He thereupon gave himself out as a Japanese convert, and forged a fresh pass, 'clapping to
it the old seal' (p. 116). He went through different adventures, and at last enlisted in the
army of the Elector of Cologne--an 'unhappy herd, destitute of all sense of religion and shamefacedness.'
He got his discharge, but enlisted a second time, 'passing himself off for a Japanese and a
heathen, under the name of Salmanazar' (pp. 133-141). Later on he altered it, he says, 'by
the addition of a letter or two to make it somewhat different from that mentioned in the Book
of Kings' (Shalmaneser, II Kings, xvii. 3). In his Description of Formosa he wrote it Psalmanaazaar,
and in later life Psalmanazar. In his vanity he invented 'an awkward show of worship, turning
his face to the rising or setting sun, and pleased to be taken notice of for so doing' (p.
144). He had moreover 'the ambition of passing for a moral heathen' (p. 147). By way of singularity
he next took to living altogether upon raw flesh, roots, and herbs (p. 163).

It was when he was on garrison duty at Sluys that he became acquainted with Innes, who was
chaplain to a Scotch regiment that was in the pay of the Dutch (p. 148). This man found in
him a tool ready made to his hand. He had at once seen through his roguery, but he used his
knowledge only to plunge him deeper in his guilt. By working on his fears and his vanity and
by small bribes he induced him to profess himself a convert to the Church of England and to
submit to baptism (p. 158). He brought him over to London, and introduced him to the Bishop
of London, and to Tenison, Archbishop of Canterbury (pp. 164, 179). Psalmanazar spoke Latin
fluently, but 'his Grace had either forgotten his, or being unused to the foreign pronunciation
was forced to have it interpreted to him by Dr. Innes in English' (p. 178). The young impostor
everywhere gave himself out as a Formosan who had been entrapped by a Jesuit priest, and brought
to Avignon. 'There I could expect,' he wrote, 'no mercy from the Inquisitors, if I had not
in hypocrisy professed their religion' (History of Formosa, p. 25). He was kept, he says, in
a kind of custody, 'but I trusted under God to my heels' (p. 24). It was Innes who made him
write this History.

In the confession of his fraud Psalmanazar seems to keep back nothing. His repentance appears
to be sincere, and his later life, there can be little question, was regular. Yet, as I have
said, even his confessions apparently are not free from the old leaven of hypocrisy. It is
indeed very hard, if not altogether impossible, for a man who has passed forty years and more
as a lying hypocrite altogether to 'clear his mind of cant.' In writing of the time when he
was still living the life of a lying scoundrel, he says:--'I have great reason to acknowledge
it the greatest mercy that could befall me, that I was so well grounded in the principles and
evidence of the Christian religion, that neither the conversation of the then freethinkers,
as they loved to stile themselves, and by many of whom I was severely attacked, nor the writings
of Hobbes, Spinosa, &c. against the truth of Divine revelation could appear to me in any other
light than as the vain efforts of a dangerous set of men to overturn a religion, the best founded
and most judiciously calculated to promote the peace and happiness of mankind, both temporal
and eternal' (Memoirs, p. 192). Two pages further on he writes, a little boastfully it seems,
of having had 'some sort of gallantry with the fair sex; with many of whom, even persons of
fortune and character, of sense, wit, and learning, I was become,' he continues, 'a great favourite,
and might, if I could have overcome my natural sheepishness and fear of a repulse, have been
more successful either by way of matrimony or intrigue.' He goes on:--'I may truly say, that
hardly any man who might have enjoyed so great a variety ever indulged himself in so few instances
of the unlawful kind as I have done.' He concludes this passage in his writings by 'thankfully
acknowledging that there must have been some secret providence that kept me from giving such
way to unlawful amours as I might otherwise have done, to the ruin of my health, circumstances,'
&c.

When he came to wish for an honest way of life he was beset with difficulties. 'What a deadly
wound,' he writes, 'must such an unexpected confession have given to my natural vanity, and
what a mortification would it have been to such sincere honest people [as my friends] to hear
it from my mouth!' (p. 213.) This was natural enough. That he long hesitated, like a coward,
on the brink is not to be cast in his teeth, seeing that at last he took the plunge. But then
in speaking of the time when he weakly repeated, and to use his own words, 'as it were confirmed
anew,' his old falsehoods, he should not have written that 'as the assurance of God's mercy
gave me good grounds to hope, so that hope inspired me with a design to use all proper means
to obtain it, and leave the issue of it to his Divine Providence' (p. 214). The only proper
means to obtain God's mercy was at once to own to all the world that he had lied. It is only
the Tartuffes and the Holy Willies who, whilst they persist in their guilt, talk of leaving
the issue to the Divine Providence of God.

Since this Appendix was in type I have learnt, through the kindness of Mr. C.E. Doble, the
editor of Hearne's Remarks and Collections, ed. 1885, that a passage in that book (i. 271),
confirms my conjecture that Psalmanazar was lodged in Christ Church when at Oxford. Hearne
says (July 9, 1706):--'Mr. Topping of Christ Church ... also tells me that Salmanezzer, the
famous Formosan, when he left Christ Church (where he resided while in Oxon) left behind him
a Book in MSt., wherein a distinct acct was given of the Consular and Imperial coyns by himself.'
Mr. Doble has also pointed out to me in the first edition of the Spectator the following passage
at the end of No. 14:--

'ADVERTISEMENT.

'On the first of April will be performed at the Play-house in the Hay-market an opera call'd
The Cruelty of Atreus. N.B. The Scene wherein Thyestes eats his own children is to be performed
by the famous Mr. Psalmanazar lately arrived from Formosa: The whole Supper being set to Kettle-drums.'

       *       *       *       *       *

APPENDIX B.

JOHNSON'S TRAVELS AND LOVE OF TRAVELLING.

(Page 352). 1843, i. 403. Johnson had no contempt for foreign travel. That curiosity which
animated his eager mind in so many parts of learning did not fail him, when his thoughts turned
to the great world outside our narrow seas. It was his poverty that confined him so long to
the neighbourhood of Temple Bar. We have seen nothing.'

With his pension his wanderings at once began. His friendship with the Thrales gave them a
still wider range. His curiosity, which in itself was always eager, was checked in his more
prosperous circumstances by his years, his natural unwillingness at any one moment to make
an effort, and by the want of travelling companions who were animated by a spirit of inquiry
and of enterprise equal to his own. He did indeed travel much more than is commonly thought,
and was far less frequently to be seen rolling along Fleet-street or stemming the full tide
of human existence at Charing Cross than his biographers would have us believe.

The following table, imperfect though it must necessarily be, shows how large a part of his
life he passed outside 'the first turnpike-gate,' and beyond the smoke of London:--

1709-1736. The first twenty-seven years of his life he spent in small country towns or villages--Lichfield,
Stourbridge, Oxford, Market-Bosworth, Birmingham. So late as 1781 Lichfield did not contain
4,000 inhabitants (Harwood's History of Lichfield, p. 380); eight years later it was reckoned
that a little over 8,000 people dwelt in Oxford (Parker's Early History of Oxford, ed. 1885,
p. 229). In 1732 or 1733 Birmingham, when Johnson first went to live there, had not, I suppose,
a population of 10,000. Its growth was wonderfully rapid. Between 1770 and 1797 its inhabitants
increased from 30,000 to nearly 80,000 (Birmingham Directory for 1780, p. xx, and A Brief History
of Birmingham, p. 8).

1736-7. The first eighteen months of his married life he lived quite in the country at Edial,
two miles from Lichfield. Ante, i. 97.

1737. He was twenty-eight years old when he removed to London. Ante, i. 110.

1739. He paid a visit to Appleby in Leicestershire and to Ashbourn. Ante, i. 82, 133 note 1.

1754. Oxford. July and August, about five weeks. Ante, i. 270, note 5.

1759. Oxford. July, length of visit not mentioned. Ante, i. 347.

1761-2. Lichfield. Winter, a visit of five days. Ante, i. 370.

1762. In the summer of this year his pension was granted, and he henceforth had the means of
travelling. Ante, i. 372.

A trip to Devonshire, from Aug. 16 to Sept. 26; six weeks. Ante, i. 377.

Oxford. December. 'I am going for a few days or weeks to Oxford.' Letter of Dec. 21, 1762.
Croker's Boswell, p. 129.

1763. Harwich. August, a few days. Ante, i. 464.

Oxford. October, length of visit not mentioned. A letter dated Oxford, Oct. 27 [1763]. Croker's
Boswell, p. 161.

1764. Langton in Lincolnshire, part of January and February. Ante, i. 476.

Easton Maudit in Northamptonshire, part of June, July, and August. Croker's Boswell, p. 166,
note, and ante, i. 486.

Oxford, October. Letter to Mr. Strahan dated Oxford, Oct. 24, 1764. Post, Addenda to vol. v.

Either this year or the next Johnson made the acquaintance of the Thrales. For the next seventeen
years he had 'an apartment appropriated to him in the Thrales' villa at Streatham' (ante, i.
493), a handsome house that stood in a small park. Streatham was a quiet country-village, separated
by wide commons from London, on one of which a highwayman had been hanged who had there robbed
Mr. Thrale (ante, iii. 239, note 2). According to Mrs. Piozzi Johnson commonly spent the middle
of the week at their house, coming on the Monday night and returning to his own home on the
Saturday (post, iv. 169, note 3). Miss Burney, in 1778, describes him 'as living almost wholly
at Streatham' (ante, i. 493, note 3). No doubt she was speaking chiefly of the summer half
of the year, for in the winter time the Thrales would be often in their town house, where he
also had his apartment. Mr. Strahan complained of his being at Streatham 'in a great measure
absorbed from the society of his old friends' (ante, iii. 225). He used to call it 'my home'
(ante, i. 493, note 3).

1765. Cambridge, early in the year; a short visit. Ante, i. 487.

Brighton, autumn; a short visit. Piozzi's Anec. p. 126, and Piozzi Letters, i. 1.

1766. Streatham, summer and autumn; more than three months. Ante, ii. 25, and Pr. and Med. p. 71.

Oxford, autumn; a month. Ante, ii. 25.

1767. Lichfield, summer and autumn; 'near six months.' Ante, ii. 30, and Piozzi Letters, i. 4, 5.

1768. Oxford, spring; several weeks. Piozzi Letters, i. 6-15.

Townmalling in Kent, September; apparently a short visit. Pr. and Med. p. 81.

1769. Oxford, from at least May 18 to July 7. Piozzi Letters, i. 19-23, and ante, ii. 67.

Lichfield and Ashbourn, August; a short visit. Piozzi Letters, i. 24, and ante, ii. 67.

Brighton, part of August and September; some weeks. Ante, ii. 68, 70, and Croker's Boswell,
p. 198, letter dated 'Brighthelmstone. August 26, 1769.'

1770. Lichfield and Ashbourn, apparently whole of July. Piozzi Letters, i. 26-32.

1771. Lichfield and Ashbourn, from June 20 to after Aug. 5. Ante, ii. 141, 142, and Piozzi
Letters, i. 36-54.

1772. Lichfield and Ashbourn, from about Oct. 15 to early in December. Piozzi Letters, i. 55-69.

1773. Oxford, April; a hurried visit. Ante, ii. 235, note 2.

Tour to Scotland from Aug. 6 to Nov. 26. Ante, ii. 265, 268.

Oxford, part of November and December. Ante, ii. 268.

1774. Tour to North Wales (Derbyshire, Chester, Conway, Anglesey, Snowdon, Shrewsbury, Worcester,
Birmingham, Oxford, Beaconsfield) from July 5 to Sept. 30. Ante, ii. 285, and post, v. 427.

1775. Oxford, March; a short visit. Piozzi Letters, i. 212.

Oxford, Lichfield, Ashbourn, from end of May till some time in August. Ante, ii. 381, and Piozzi
Letters, i. 223-301.

Brighton; apparently a brief visit in September. Croker's Boswell, p. 459.

A tour to Paris (going by Calais and Rouen and returning by Compiegne, St. Quintin, and Calais),
from Sept. 15 to Nov. 12. Ante, ii. 384, 401.

1776. Oxford, Lichfield, Ashbourn, March 19-29. (The trip was cut short by young Thrale's death.)
Ante, ii. 438, and iii. 4.

Bath, from the middle of April to the beginning of May. Ante, iii. 44, 51.

Brighton, part of September and October; full seven weeks. Ante, iii. 92.

1777. Oxford, Lichfield, and Ashbourn, from about July 28 to about Nov. 6. Ante, iii. 129,
210, and Piozzi Letters, i. 348-396 and ii. 1-16 (the letter of Oct. 3, i. 396, is wrongly
dated, as is shown by the mention of Foote's death).

Brighton, November; a visit of three days. Ante, iii. 210.

1778. Warley Camp, in Essex, September; about a week. Ante, iii. 360.

1779. Lichfield, Ashbourn, from May 20 to end of June. Ante, iii. 395, and Piozzi Letters,
ii. 44-55.

Epsom, September; a few days. Pr. and Med. pp. 181, 225.

1780. Brighton. October. MS. letter dated Oct. 26, 1780 to Mr. Nichols in the British Museum.

1781. Oxford, Birmingham, Lichfield, Ashbourn, from Oct. 15 to Dec. 11. Post, iv. 135, and
Croker's Boswell, p. 699, note 5.

1782. Oxford, June; about ten days. Post, iv. 151, and Piozzi Letters, ii. 243-249.

Brighton, part of October and November. Post, iv. 159.

1783. Rochester, July; about a fortnight. Post, iv. 233.

Heale near Salisbury, part of August and September; three weeks. Post, iv. 233, 239.

1784. Oxford, June; a fortnight. Post, iv. 283, 311.

Lichfield, Ashbourn, Oxford, from July 13 to Nov. 16. Post, iv. 353, 377.

That he was always eager to see the world is shown by many a passage in his writings and by
the testimony of his biographers. How Macaulay, who knew his Boswell so well, could have accused
him of 'speaking of foreign travel with the fierce and boisterous contempt of ignorance' would
be a puzzle indeed, did we not know how often this great rhetorician was by the stream of his
own mighty rhetoric swept far away from the unadorned strand of naked truth. To his unjust
and insulting attack I shall content myself with opposing the following extracts which with
some trouble I have collected:--

1728 or 1729.

1734.

1751. 'Curiosity is one of the permanent and certain characteristicks of a vigorous intellect.'
Rambler, No. 103. No. 150.

1752. Francis Barber, describing Johnson's friends in 1752, says:--

'There was a talk of his going to Iceland with Mr. Diamond, which would probably have happened
had he lived.' Ante, i. 242. Johnson, in a letter to the wife of the poet Smart, says, 'we
have often talked of a voyage to Iceland.' Post, iv. 359 note. Mrs. Thrale wrote to him when
he was in the Hebrides in 1773:--'Well! 'tis better talk of Iceland. Gregory challenges you
for an Iceland expedition; but I trust there is no need; I suppose good eyes might reach it
from some of the places you have been in.' Piozzi Letters, i. 188.

1761. Johnson wrote to Baretti:--

'I wish you had staid longer in Spain, for no country is less known to the rest of Europe.'
Ante, i. 365. He twice recommended Boswell to perambulate Spain. Ante, i. 410, 455.

1763. 'Dr. Johnson flattered me (Boswell) with some hopes that he would, in the course of the
following summer, come over to Holland, and accompany me in a tour through the Netherlands.'
Ante, i. 470.

1772. He said that he had had some desire, though he soon laid it aside, to go on an expedition
round the world with Mr. Banks and Dr. Solander. Ante, ii. 147.

1773. 'Dr. Johnson and I talked of going to Sweden.' Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 215.

On Sept. 9, 1777, Boswell wrote to Johnson:--

'I shrink a little from our scheme of going up the Baltick: I am sorry you have already been
in Wales; for I wish to see it.' Ante, iii. 134. Four days later Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Boswell
shrinks from the Baltick expedition, which, I think, is the best scheme in our power: what
we shall substitute I know not. He wants to see Wales; but except the woods of Bachycraigh
(post, v. 436), what is there in Wales, that can fill the hunger of ignorance, or quench the
thirst of curiosity? We may, perhaps, form some scheme or other; but in the phrase of Hockley
in the Hole, it is a pity he has not a better bottom.' Ib. note 1.

Boswell writes:--

'Martin's account of the Hebrides had impressed us with a notion that we might there contemplate
a system of life almost totally different from what we had been accustomed to see.... Dr. Johnson
told me that his father put Martin's account into his hands when he was very young, and that
he was much pleased with it.' Post, v. 13.

From the Hebrides Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--

'I have a desire to instruct myself in the whole system of pastoral life; but I know not whether
I shall be able to perfect the idea. However, I have many pictures in my mind, which I could
not have had without this journey; and should have passed it with great pleasure had you, and
Master, and Queeney been in the party. We should have excited the attention and enlarged the
observation of each other, and obtained many pleasing topicks of future conversation.' Piozzi
Letters, i. 159. 'We travelled with very little light in a storm of wind and rain; we passed
about fifty-five streams that crossed our way, and fell into a river that, for a very great
part of our road, foamed and roared beside us; all the rougher powers of nature except thunder
were in motion, but there was no danger. I should have been sorry to have missed any of the
inconveniencies, to have had more light or less rain, for their co-operation crowded the scene
and filled the mind.' Ib. p. 177. 1853, iii. 167.

1774. When he saw some copper and iron works in Wales he wrote:--

'I have enlarged my notions.' Post, v. 442. See also ante, iii. 164.

His letter to Warren Hastings shows his curiosity about India. Ante, iv. 68.

1775. The Thrales had just received a sum of L14,000. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--

'If I had money enough, what would I do? Perhaps, if you and master did not hold me, I might
go to Cairo, and down the Red Sea to Bengal, and take a ramble to India. Would this be better
than building and planting? It would surely give more variety to the eye, and more amplitude
to the mind. Half fourteen thousand would send me out to see other forms of existence, and
bring me back to describe them.' Piozzi Letters, i. 266.

'Regions mountainous and wild, thinly inhabited and little cultivated, make a great part of
the earth, and he that has never seen them must live unacquainted with much of the face of
nature, and with one of the great scenes of human existence.' Johnson's Works, ix. 36. 'All
travel has its advantages. If the traveller visits better countries he may learn to improve
his own; and if fortune carries him to worse he may learn to enjoy it.' Ib. p. 136. 387, note 2.

1776. In the spring of this year everything was settled for his journey to Italy with the Thrales.
Hannah More wrote (Memoirs, i. 74):--

'Johnson and Mr. Boswell have this day set out for Oxford, Lichfield, &c., that the Doctor
may take leave of all his old friends previous to his great expedition across the Alps. I lament
his undertaking such a journey at his time of life, with beginning infirmities. I hope he will
not leave his bones on classic grounds.'

Boswell tells how--

'Speaking with a tone of animation Johnson said, "We must, to be sure, see Rome, Naples, Florence,
and Venice, and as much more as we can."' Ante, iii. 19. 'Johnson's desire to go abroad, particularly
to see Italy, was very great; and he had a longing wish, too, to leave some Latin verses at
the Grand Chartreux. He loved indeed the very act of travelling.... He was in some respects
an admirable companion on the road, as he piqued himself upon feeling no inconvenience, and
on despising no accommodations.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 168.

Johnson, this same year, speaking of a friend who had gone to the East Indies, said:--

'I had some intention of accompanying him. Had I thought then as I do now, I should have gone.'
Ante, iii. 20. According to Mr. Tyers he once offered to attend another friend to India. Moreover
'he talked much of travelling into Poland to observe the life of the Palatines, the account
of which struck his curiosity very much.' Johnsoniana, ed. 1836, p. 157.

1777. Boswell wrote to Johnson this year (ante, iii. 107):--

'You have, I believe, seen all the cathedrals in England except that of Carlisle.'

This was not the case, yet most of them he had already seen or lived to see. With Lichfield,
Oxford, and London he was familiar. Winchester and Exeter he had seen in 1762 on his tour to
Devonshire (ante, i. 377), Peterborough, Ely, Lincoln, York, and Durham he no doubt saw in
1773 on his way to Scotland. The first three he might also have seen in 1764 on his visit to
Langton (ante, i. 476). Chester, St. Asaph, Bangor, and Worcester he visited in 1774 in his
journey to Wales (post, v. 435, 436, 448, 456). Through Canterbury he almost certainly passed
in 1775 on his way to France (ante, ii. 384). Bristol he saw in 1776 (ante, iii. 51). To Chichester
he drove from Brighton in 1782 (post, iv. 160). Rochester and Salisbury he visited in the summer
of 1783 (post, iv. 233). Wells he might easily have seen when he was at Bath in 1776 (ante,
iii. 44), and possibly Gloucester. Through Norwich he perhaps came on his return from Lincolnshire
in 1764 (ante, i. 476). Hereford, I think, he could not have visited. 162). He had previously
said (ante, ii. 453), as he was driven rapidly along in a post-chaise, 'Life has not many things
better than this.'

1778. Boswell wrote to Johnson:--

'My wife is so different from you and me that she dislikes travelling.' Ante, iii. 219. 269.

1780. In August he wrote to Boswell:--

'I know not whether I shall get a ramble this summer.... I hope you and I may yet shew ourselves
on some part of Europe, Asia, or Africa.' Ante, iii. 435.

In the same year Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--

'I hope you have no design of stealing away to Italy before the election, nor of leaving me
behind you; though I am not only seventy, but seventy-one.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 177. 441.

1784. Johnson's wish to go to Italy in the last year of his life was caused by the hope that
it might be good for his health. 'I do not,' he wrote, 'travel for pleasure or curiosity; yet
if I should recover,' he added, 'curiosity would revive.' Post, iv. 348.

Mrs. Piozzi, without however giving the year, records:--

'Dr. Johnson was very angry with a gentleman at our house for not being better company, and
urged that he had travelled into Bohemia and seen Prague. "Surely," added he, "the man who
has seen Prague might tell us something new and something strange, and not sit silent for want
of matter to put his lips in motion."' Piozzi's Journey, ii. 317.

All these passages shew, what indeed is evident enough from the text, that it was not travelling
in general but travelling between the ages of nineteen and twenty-four, with a character unformed,
a memory unstored, and a judgment untrained, that Johnson attacked. It was a common habit in
his day to send young men of fortune to make the tour of Europe, as it was called, at an age
when they would now be sent to either Oxford or Cambridge. Lord Charlemont was but eighteen
when he left England. Locke, at the end of his work on Education, said in 1692 much the same
as Johnson said in 1778.

'The ordinary time of travel,' he wrote, 'is from sixteen to one and twenty.' He would send
any one either at a younger age than sixteen under a tutor, or at an older age than twenty-one
without a tutor; 'when he is of age to govern himself, and make observations of what he finds
in other countries worthy his notice ... and when, too, being thoroughly acquainted with the
laws and fashions, the natural and moral advantages and defects of his own country, he has
something to exchange with those abroad, from whose conversation he hoped to reap any knowledge.'

Goldsmith, in his Present State of Polite Learning, ch. xiii, wrote in 1759:--

'We see more of the world by travel, but more of human nature by remaining at home.... A youth
just landed at the Brille resembles a clown at a puppet-show; carries his amazement from one
miracle to another; from this cabinet of curiosities to that collection of pictures; but wondering
is not the way to grow wise.... The greatest advantages which result to youth from travel are
an easy address, the shaking off national prejudices, and the finding nothing ridiculous in
national peculiarities. The time spent in these acquisitions could have been more usefully
employed at home.' Gibbon (Misc. Works, i. 197) says that 'the previous and indispensable requisites
of foreign travel are age, judgment, a competent knowledge of men and books, and a freedom
from domestic prejudices.'

When he was only eighteen years old he saw the evils of early travelling:--

'I never liked young travellers; they go too raw to make any great remarks, and they lose a
time which is (in my opinion) the most precious part of a man's life.' Ib. p. 98.

Cowper, in his Progress of Error (ed. 1782, i. 60), describes how--

'His stock, a few French phrases got by heart, With much to learn and nothing to impart, The
youth obedient to his sire's commands, Sets off a wanderer into foreign lands.

       *       *       *       *       *

Returning he proclaims by many a grace, By shrugs and strange contortions of his face, How
much a dunce that has been sent to roam Excels a dunce that has been kept at home.'

APPENDIX C.

ELECTION OF LORD MAYORS OF LONDON.

(Page 356.)

In the years 1751-2-3, the Lord Mayor was not appointed by rotation; Sir G. Champion, the senior
Alderman, being accused of a leaning towards Spain. From 1754 to 1765 (inclusive) if there
was in any year a contest, yet in each case the senior Alderman nominated was chosen. From
1766 to 1775 (inclusive) there was in every year a departure from the order of seniority. In
1776-8 the order of seniority was again observed; so that two years before Johnson made his
remark the irregularity had come to an end. This information I owe to the kindness of Mr. Scott,
the excellent Chamberlain of the City. Sir George Champion had been passed over in the year
1739 also. In an address to the Liverymen he says that 'the disorders and great disturbance
to the peace of the city, which in former times had been occasioned by the over-eagerness of
some, too ambitious and impatient to obtain this great honour, had been quieted' by the adoption
of the order of seniority. Gent. Mag. 1739, p. 595. Among the Lord Mayors from 1769-1775 (inclusive)
we find Beckford, Trecothick, Crosby, Townshend, Bull, Wilkes, and Sawbridge. 'Where did Beckford
and Trecothick learn English?' asked Johnson (ante, iii. 76). Crosby, in the year of his mayoralty
(1770-1), was committed to the Tower by the House of Commons, for having himself committed
to prison a messenger of the House when attempting to arrest the printer of the London Evening
Debates, who was accused of a breach of privilege in reporting the Debates (Parl. Hist. xvii.
155). Townshend in the same year refused to pay the land-tax, on the plea that his county (Middlesex)
was no longer represented, as Wilkes's election had been annulled (Walpole's Letters, v. 348).
Bull in the House of Commons violently attacked Lord North's ministry (Parl. Hist. xix. 980).
Sawbridge, year after year, brought into Parliament a bill for shortening the duration of parliaments.
During his Mayoralty he would not suffer the pressgangs to enter the city. (Walpole's Journal
of the Reign of George III, ii. 84.)

Among the Aldermen the Court-party had a majority. In April 1769 Wilkes's eligibility for election
as an Alderman was not allowed by a majority of ten to six (Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign
of George III, iii. 360, and Ann. Reg. xii. 92). On his release from prison in April 1770 he
was, however, admitted without a division (ib. xiii. 99). When, in March 1770, the City presented
an outspoken remonstrance to the King, sixteen Aldermen protested against it (Walpole's Letters,
v. 229). About this time there arose a great division in the popular party in the City. According
to Lord Albemarle, in his Memoirs of Rockingham, ii. 209, from the period of this struggle
'the Whigs and what are now called Radicals became two distinct sections of the Liberal party.'
Townshend, who in this followed the lead of Lord Shelburne, headed the more moderate men against
Wilkes. The result was that in 1771 each section running a candidate for the Mayoralty, a third
man, Nash, who was opposed to both, was returned (Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign of George
III, iv. 345, and Ann. Reg. xiv. 146).

The Livery, for a time at least, was Wilkite. Wilkes's name was sent up as Lord Mayor at the
top of the list in 1772 and 1773, but he was in each case passed over by the Court of Aldermen.
It was not till 1774 that he was elected by a kind of 'Hobson's choice.' The Aldermen had to
choose between him and the retiring Lord Mayor, Bull. Walpole, writing of Nov. 1776, says the
new Lord Mayor 'invited the Ministers to his feast, to which they had not been asked for seven
years' (Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 84). See Boswell's Hebrides, post, v. 339.

APPENDIX D.

THE INMATES OF JOHNSON'S HOUSE. (Page 368.)

In September of this year (1778) Miss Burney records the following conversation at Streatham:--'MRS.
THRALE. "Pray, Sir, how does Mrs. Williams like all this tribe?" DR. J. "Madam, she does not
like them at all; but their fondness for her is not greater. She and Desmoulins quarrel incessantly;
but as they can both be occasionally of service to each other, and as neither of them have
any other place to go to, their animosity does not force them to separate." MRS. T. "Mr. Levett,
I suppose, Sir, has the office of keeping the hospital in health, for he is an apothecary."
MR. T. "But how do you get your dinners drest?" MRS. T. "But pray, Sir, who is the Poll you
talk of? She that you used to abet in her quarrels with Mrs. Williams, and call out, At her
again, Poll! Never flinch, Poll!" DR. J. "Why, I took to Poll very well at first, but she won't
do upon a nearer examination." MRS. T. "How came she among you, Sir?" DR. J. "Why, I don't
rightly remember, but we could spare her very well from us. Poll is a stupid slut. I had some
hopes of her at first; but when I talked to her tightly and closely, I could make nothing of
her; she was wiggle waggle, and I could never persuade her to be categorical."' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 114.

More than a year later Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Discord keeps her residence in this
habitation, but she has for some time been silent. We have much malice, but no mischief. Levett
is rather a friend to Williams, because he hates Desmoulins more. A thing that he should hate
more than Desmoulins is not to be found.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 80. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 213)
says:--'He really was oftentimes afraid of going home, because he was so sure to be met at
the door with numberless complaints; and he used to lament pathetically to me that they made
his life miserable from the impossibility he found of making theirs happy, when every favour
he bestowed on one was wormwood to the rest. If, however, I ventured to blame their ingratitude,
and condemn their conduct, he would instantly set about softening the one and justifying the
other; and finished commonly by telling me, that I knew not how to make allowances for situations
I never experienced.' Hawkins (Life, p. 404) says:--'Almost throughout Johnson's life poverty
and distressed circumstances seemed to be the strongest of all recommendations to his favour.
When asked by one of his most intimate friends, how he could bear to be surrounded by such
necessitous and undeserving people as he had about him, his answer was, "If I did not assist
them, no one else would, and they must be lost for want."' 'His humanity and generosity, in
proportion to his slender income, were,' writes Murphy (Life, p. 146), 'unbounded. It has been
truly said that the lame, the blind, and the sorrowful found in his house a sure retreat.'
See also ante, iii. 222. At the same time it must be remembered that while Mrs. Desmoulins
and Miss Carmichael only brought trouble into the house, in the society of Mrs. Williams and
Levett he had real pleasure. See ante, i. 232, note 1, and 243, note 3.

(Page 370, note i.)

LETTER I.

'Agli Illustrissimi Signori Il Presidente e Consiglieri dell' Academia Reale delle arti in Londra.

'Avreste forse illustrissimi Signori potuto scegliere molte persone piu degne dell' ufficcio
di Segretario per la corrispondenza straniera; ma non sarebbe, son certo, stato possibile di
trovar alcuno dal quale questa distinzione sarebbe stata piu stimata. Sento con un animo molto
riconoscente la parzialita che l'Academia a ben voluto mostrar per me; e mi conto felicissimo
che la mia elezione sia stata graziosamente confirmata dalla sua Maesta lo stesso Sovrano che
a fondato l'Academia, e che si e sempre mostrato il suo beneficente Protettore.

'Vi prego, Signori, di credere que porro ogni mio studio a contribuire tanto che potro alia
prosperita della nostra instituzione ch' e gia arrivata ad un punto si rispettevole.

'Ho l'onore d'essere, 'Illustrissimi Signori, 'Vostro umilissimo, 'e divotissimo servo, 'Giacomo
Boswell.' 'Londra, '31 d'Ottobre, 1791.'

LETTER. II.

'A Messieurs Le President et les autres Membres du Conseil de l'Academie Royale des Arts a Londres.

'Messieurs,

'C'est avec la plus vive reconnoissance que J'accepte la charge de Secretaire pour la Correspondence
etrangere de votre Academie a laquelle J'ai eu l'honneur d'etre choisi par vos suffrages unanimes
gracieusement confirmes par sa Majeste.

'Ce choix spontane Messieurs me flatte beaucoup; et m'inspire des desirs les plus ardens de
m'en montrer digne, au moins par la promptitude avec laquelle Je saisirai toute occasion de
faire ce que Je pourrai pour contribuer a l'avantage des Arts et la celebrite de l'Academie.

'J'ai l'honneur d'etre avec toute la consideration possible,

'Messieurs,

'Votre serviteur tres oblige tres humble et tres fidel, 'Boswell.' 'A Londres, 'ce 31 d'Octobre,
1791'

[In this letter I have made no attempt to correct Boswell's errors.]

LETTER III.

'To the President and Council of The Royal Academy of Arts in London.

'Gentlemen,

'Your unsolicited and unanimous election of me to be Secretary for Foreign Correspondence to
your Academy, and the gracious confirmation of my election by his Majesty, I acknowledge with
the warmest sentiments of gratitude and respect.

'I have always loved the Arts, and during my travels on the Continent I did not neglect the
opportunities which I had of cultivating a taste for them.[1372] That taste I trust will now
be much improved, when I shall be so happy as to share in the advantages which the Royal Academy
affords; and I fondly embrace this very pleasing distinction as giving me the means of providing
additional solace for the future years of my life.

'Be assured, Gentlemen, that as I am proud to be a member of an Academy which has the peculiar
felicity of not being at all dependant on a Minister[1373], but under the immediate patronage
and superintendence of the Sovereign himself, I shall be zealous to do every thing in my power
that can be of any service to our excellent Institution.

'I have the honour to be,

'Gentlemen,

'Your much obliged

'And faithful humble servant,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

'London,

'31 October, 1791.'

LETTER IV.

'SIR,

'I am much obliged to you for the very polite terms in which you have been pleased to communicate
to me my election to be Secretary for Foreign Correspondence to the Royal Academy of Arts in
London; and I request that you will lay before the President and Council the enclosed letters
signifying my acceptance of that office.

'To John Richards, Esq., R.A. &c.'

Bennet Langton's letter of acceptance of the Professorship of Ancient Literature in the place
of Johnson is dated April 2, 1788.

I must express my acknowledgments to the President and Council of the Royal Academy for their
kindness in allowing me to copy the above letters from the originals that are in their possession.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] See ante, March 15, 1776.

[2] Anecdotes of Johnson, p. 176. BOSWELL. 'It is,' he said, 'so very difficult for a sick
man not to be a scoundrel.' Ib. p. 175. He called Fludyer a scoundrel (ante, March 20, 1776),
apparently because he became a Whig. 'He used to say a man was a scoundrel that was afraid
of anything. "Whoever thinks of going to bed before twelve o'clock is," he said, "a scoundrel."'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 199, 211. Mr. Croker points out that 'Johnson in his Dictionary
defined knave, a scoundrel; sneakup, a scoundrel; rascal, a scoundrel; loon, a scoundrel; lout,
a scoundrel; poltroon, a scoundrel; and that he coined the word scoundrelism' (Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 25, 1773). Churchill, in The Ghost, Book ii. (Poems, i. 1. 217), describes Johnson as one

'Who makes each sentence current pass, With puppy, coxcomb, scoundrel, ass.'

Swift liked the word. 'God forbid,' he wrote, 'that ever such a scoundrel as Want should dare
to approach you.' Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xviii. 39.

[3] See ante, i. 49, for Johnson's fondness for the old romances.

[4] Boswell, ante, i. 386, implies that Sheridan's pension was partly due to Wedderburne's
influence.

[5] See ante, i. 386.

[6] Akenside, in his Ode to Townshend (Book ii. 4), says:--

'For not imprudent of my loss to come, I saw from Contemplation's quiet cell His feet ascending
to another home, Where public praise and envied greatness dwell.'

He had, however, no misgivings, for he thus ends:--

'Then for the guerdon of my lay, This man with faithful friendship, will I say, From youth
to honoured age my arts and me hath viewed.'

[7] We have now more knowledge generally diffused; all our ladies read now 'which is a great
extension.' Post, April 29, 1778.

[8] See post, April, 28, 1783.

[9] See post, March 22, 1783.

[10] See post, March 18, 1784.

[11] Newbery, the publisher, was the vendor of Dr. James's famous powder. It was known that
on the doctor's death a chemist whom he had employed meant to try to steal the business, under
the pretence that he alone knew the secret of the preparation. A supply of powders enough to
last for many years was laid in by Newbery in anticipation, while James left an affidavit that
the chemist was never employed in the manufacture. He, however, asserted that James was deprived
of his mental faculties when the affidavit was made. Evidence against this was collected and
published; the conclusion to the Preface being written by Johnson. A Bookseller of the Last
Century, p. 138. See ante, i. 159.

[12] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on the birth of a second son who died early:--'I congratulate
you upon your boy; but you must not think that I shall love him all at once as well as I love
Harry, for Harry you know is so rational. I shall love him by degrees.' Piozzi Letters, i.
206. A week after Harry's death he wrote:--'I loved him as I never expect to love any other
little boy; but I could not love him as a parent.' Ib. p. 310.

[13] Johnson had known this anxiety. He wrote to Mrs. Thrale from Ashbourne on July 7, 1775:--'I
cannot think why I hear nothing from you. I hope and fear about my dear friends at Streatham.
But I may have a letter this afternoon--Sure it will bring me no bad news.' Ib. i. 263. See
Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 21, 1773.

[14] See ante, ii. 75.

[15] ante, April 10, 1775.

[16] See ante, March 21, 1776, and post, Sept. 19, 1777.

[17] The phrase 'vexing thoughts,' is I think, very expressive. It has been familiar to me
from my childhood; for it is to be found in the Psalms in Metre, used in the churches (I believe
I should say kirks) of Scotland, Psal. xliii. v. 5;

'Why art thou then cast down, my soul?
  What should discourage thee?
And why with vexing thoughts art thou
  Disquieted in me?'

Some allowance must no doubt be made for early prepossession. But at a maturer period of life,
after looking at various metrical versions of the Psalms, I am well satisfied that the version
used in Scotland is, upon the whole, the best; and that it has in general a simplicity and
unction of sacred Poesy; and in many parts its transfusion is admirable. BOSWELL.

[18] 'Burke and Reynolds are the same one day as another,' Johnson said, post, under Sept.
22, 1777. Boswell celebrates Reynolds's 'equal and placid temper,' ante, i. I. On Aug. 12,
1775, he wrote to Temple:--'It is absurd to hope for continual happiness in this life; few
men, if any, enjoy it. I have a kind of belief that Edmund Burke does; he has so much knowledge,
so much animation, and the consciousness of so much fame.' Letters of Boswell, p. 212.

[19] ante, i. 446.

[20] Baretti says, that 'Mrs. Thrale abruptly proposed to start for Bath, as wishing to avoid
the sight of the funeral. She had no man-friend to go with her,' and so he offered his services.
Johnson at that moment arrived. 'I expected that he would spare me the jaunt, and go himself
to Bath with her; but he made no motion to that effect.' European Mag. xiii. 315. It was on
the evening of the 29th that Boswell found Johnson, as he thought, not in very good humour.
Yet on the 30th he wrote to Mrs. Thrale, and called on Mr. Thrale. On April 1 and April 4 he
again wrote to Mrs. Thrale. He would have gone a second time, he says, to see Mr. Thrale, had
he not been made to understand that when he was wanted he would be sent for. Piozzi Letters,
i. 309-314.

[21] Pope, Essay on Man, iv. 390. Boswell twice more applies the same line to Johnson, post,
June 3, 1781, and under Dec. 13, 1784.

[22] Imlac consoles the Princess for the loss of Pekuah. 'When the clouds of sorrow gather
over us, we see nothing beyond them, nor can imagine how they will be dispelled; yet a new
day succeeded to the night, and sorrow is never long without a dawn of ease. But they who restrain
themselves from receiving comfort do as the savages would have done, had they put out their
eyes when it was dark.' Rasselas, ch. 35. 'Keep yourself busy,' wrote Johnson to Mrs. Thrale,
'and you will in time grow cheerful. New prospects may open, and new enjoyments may come within
your reach.' Piozzi Letters.

[23] See ante, i. 86. It was reprinted in 1789.

[24] See Boswell's Hebrides under Nov. 11, 1773.

[25] See post, under April 29, 1776.

[26] In like manner he writes, 'I catched for the moment an enthusiasm with respect to visiting
the Wall of China.' post April 10, 1778. Johnson had had some desire to go upon Cook's expedition
in 1772. ante, March 21, 1772.

[27] Mme. D'Arblay (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, i. 284) describes 'the perfect case with which Omai
managed a sword which he had received from the King, and which he had that day put on for the
first time in order to go to the House of Lords.' He is the 'gentle savage' in Cowpers Task,
i. 632.

[28] See ante, ii. 50.

[29] Voltaire (Siecle de Louis XV, ch. xv.), in his account of the battle of Fontenoy, thus
mentions him:--'On etait a cinquante pas de distance.... Les officiers anglais saluerent les
Francais en otant leurs chapeaux.... Les officiers des gardes francaises leur rendirent le
salut, Mylord Charles Hay, capitaine aux gardes anglaises, cria:--Messieurs des gardes francaises,
tirez. Le comte d'Auteroche leur dit a voix haute:--Messieurs, nous ne tirons jamais les premiers;
tirez vous-memes.'

[30] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection. Hay was third in command in the expedition
to North America in 1757. It was reported that he said that 'the nation's wealth was expended
in making sham-fights and planting cabbages.' He was put under arrest and sent home to be tried.
Gent. Mag. 1758, p. 170. Mr. Croker says that 'the real state of the case was that he had gone
mad, and was in that state sent home.' He died before the sentence of the court-martial was
promulgated. Croker's Boswell, p. 497.

[31] In Thoughts on the Coronation of George III (Works, v. 458) he expressed himself differently,
if indeed the passage is of his writing (see ante, i. 361). He says: 'It cannot but offend
every Englishman to see troops of soldiers placed between him and his sovereign, as if they
were the most honourable of the people, or the King required guards to secure his person from
his subjects. As their station makes them think themselves important, their insolence is always
such as may be expected from servile authority.' In his Journey to the Hebrides (ib. ix. 30)
he speaks of 'that courtesy which is so closely connected with the military character.' See
post, April 10, 1778.

[32] 'It is not in the power even of God to make a polite soldier.' Meander; quoted by Hume,
Essays, Part i. 20, note.

[33] In Johnson's Debates for 1741 (Works, x. 387) is on the quartering of soldiers. By the
Mutiny Act the innkeeper was required to find each foot-soldier lodging, diet, and small beer
for fourpence a day. By the Act as amended that year if he furnished salt, vinegar, small-beer,
candles, fire, and utensils to dress their victuals, without payment, he had not to supply
diet except on a march. Ib. pp. 416, 420. The allowance of small-beer was fixed at five pints
a day, though it was maintained that it should be six. Lord Baltimore, according to Johnson,
said that 'as every gentleman's servants each consumed daily six pints, it surely is not to
be required that a soldier should live in a perpetual state of warfare with his constitution.'
Ib. p. 418. Burke, writing in 1794, says:--'In quarters the innkeepers are obliged to find
for the soldiers lodging, fire, candle-light, small-beer, salt and vinegar gratis.' Burke's
Corres. iv. 258. Johnson wrote in 1758 (Works, vi. 150):--'The manner in which the soldiers
are dispersed in quarters over the country during times of peace naturally produces laxity
of discipline; they are very little in sight of their officers; and when they are not engaged
in the slight duty of the guard are suffered to live every man his own way.' Fielding, in Tom
Jones, bk. ix. ch. 6, humourously describes an innkeeper's grievances.

[34] This alludes to the pleadings of a Stoic and an Epicurean for and against the existence
of the Divinity in Lucian's Jupiter the Tragic. CROKER.

[35] 'There is a time when every man is weary of raising difficulties only to ask himself with
the solution and desires to enjoy truth without the labour or hazard of contest.' Johnson's
Works, vi. 497. See ante May 7, 1773, and post, April 3, 1779, where he says, 'Sir, you are
to a certain degree hurt by knowing that even one man does not believe.' Hume, in his Essay
Of Parties in General, had written:--'Such is the nature of the human mind, that it always
takes hold of every mind that approaches it; and as it is wonderfully fortified and corroborated
by an unanimity of sentiments, so is it, shocked and disturbed by any contrariety.' 'Carlyle
was fond of quoting a sentence of Novalis:--"My conviction gains infinitely the moment another
soul will believe in it."' Saturday Review, No. 1538, p. 521. 'The introducing of new doctrines,'
said Bacon, 'is an affectation of tyranny over the understandings and beliefs of men.' Bacon's
Nat. Hist., Experiment 1000.

[36] 'We must own,' said Johnson, 'that neither a dull boy, nor an idle boy, will do so well
at a great school as at a private one.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22, 1773. See ante, under
Dec. 5, 1775. On June 16, 1784, he said of a very timid boy:--'Placing him at a public school
is forcing an owl upon day.' Lord Shelburne says that the first Pitt told him 'that his reason
for preferring private to public education was, that he scarce observed a boy who was not cowed
for life at Eton; that a public school might suit a boy of a turbulent forward disposition,
but would not do where there was any gentleness.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 72.

[37] 'There are,' wrote Hume in 1767, 'several advantages of a Scots education; but the question
is, whether that of the language does not counterbalance them, and determine the preference
to the English.' He decides it does. He continues:--'The only inconvenience is, that few Scotsmen
that have had an English education have ever settled cordially in their own country; and they
have been commonly lost ever after to their friends.' J.H. Burton's Hume, ii. 403.

[38] He wrote to Temple on Nov. 28, 1789:--'My eldest son has been at Eton since the 15th of
October. You cannot imagine how miserable he has been; he wrote to me for some time as if from
the galleys, and intreated me to come to him.' Letters of Boswell, p. 314. On July 21, 1790,
he wrote of his second son who was at home ill:--'I am in great concern what should be done
with him, for he is so oppressed at Westminster School by the big boys that I am almost afraid
to send him thither.' Ib. p. 327. On April 6, 1791, he wrote:--'Your little friend James is
quite reconciled to Westminster.' Ib. p. 337. Southey, who was at Westminster with young Boswell,
describes 'the capricious and dangerous tyranny' under which he himself had suffered. Southey's
Life, i. 138.

[39] Horace, Satires, i. 6. 65-88.

[40] Dr. Adam Smith, who was for some time a Professor in the University of Glasgow, has uttered,
in his Wealth of Nations [v. I, iii. 2], some reflections upon this subject which are certainly
not well founded, and seem to be invidious. BOSWELL.

[41] See ante, ii. 98.

[42] Gibbon denied this. 'The diligence of the tutors is voluntary, and will consequently be
languid, while the pupils themselves, or their parents, are not indulged in the liberty of
choice or change,' Misc. Works, i. 54. Of one of his tutors he wrote:--'He well remembered
that he had a salary to receive, and only forgot that he had a duty to perform.' Ib. p. 58.
Boswell, post, end of Nov. 1784, blames Dr. Knox for 'ungraciously attacking his venerable
Alma Mater.' Knox, who was a Fellow of St. John's, left Oxford in 1778. In his Liberal Education,
published in 1781, he wrote:--'I saw immorality, habitual drunkenness, idleness and ignorance,
boastingly obtruding themselves on public view.' Knox's Works, iv. 138. 'The general tendency
of the universities is favourable to the diffusion of ignorance, idleness, vice, and infidelity
among young men.' Ib. p. 147. 'In no part of the kingdom will you meet with more licentious
practices and sentiments, and with less learning than in some colleges.' Ib. p. 179. 'The tutors
give what are called lectures. The boys construe a classic, the jolly young tutor lolls in
his elbow-chair, and seldom gives himself the trouble of interrupting the greatest dunce.'
Ib. p. 199. 'Some societies would have been glad to shut themselves up by themselves, and enjoy
the good things of the cook and manciple, without the intrusion of commoners who come for education.'
Ib. p. 200. 'The principal thing required is external respect from the juniors. However ignorant
or unworthy a senior fellow may be, yet the slightest disrespect is treated as the greatest
crime of which an academic can be guilty.' Ib. p. 201. The Proctors gave far 'more frequent
reprimands to the want of a band, or to the hair tied in queue, than to important irregularities.
A man might be a drunkard, a debauchee, and yet long escape the Proctor's animadversion; but
no virtue could protect you if you walked on Christ-church meadow or the High Street with a
band tied too low, or with no band at all; with a pig-tail, or with a green or scarlet coat.'
Ib. p. 159. Only thirteen weeks' residence a year was required. Ib. p. 172. The degree was
conferred without examination. Ib. p. 189. After taking it 'a man offers himself as a candidate
for orders. He is examined by the Bishop's chaplain. He construes a few verses in the Greek
testament, and translates one of the articles from Latin into English. His testimonial being
received he comes from his jolly companions to the care of a large parish.' Ib. p. 197. Bishop
Law gave in 1781 a different account of Cambridge. There, he complains, such was the devotion
to mathematics, that 'young men often sacrifice their whole stock of strength and spirits,
and so entirely devote most of their first few years to what is called taking a good degree,
as to be hardly good for anything else.' Preface to Archbishop King's Essay on the Origin of
Evil, p. xx.

[43] According to Adam Smith this is true only of the Protestant countries. In Roman Catholic
countries and England where benefices are rich, the church is continually draining the universities
of all their ablest members. In Scotland and Protestant countries abroad, where a chair in
a university is generally a better establishment than a benefice, by far the greater part of
the most eminent men of letters have been professors. Wealth of Nations, v. i. iii. 3.

[44] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 17, 1773.

[45] Dr. Goldsmith was dead before Mr. Maclaurin discovered the ludicrous errour. But Mr. Nourse,
the bookseller, who was the proprietor of the work, upon being applied to by Sir John Pringle,
agreed very handsomely to have the leaf on which it was contained cancelled, and re-printed
without it, at his own expence. BOSWELL. In the second edition, published five years after
Goldsmith's death, the story remains. In a foot-note the editor says, that 'he has been credibly
informed that the professor had not the defect here mentioned.' The story is not quite as Boswell
tells it. 'Maclaurin,' writes Goldsmith (ii. 91), 'was very subject to have his jaw dislocated;
so that when he opened his mouth wider than ordinary, or when he yawned, he could not shut
it again. In the midst of his harangues, therefore, if any of his pupils began to be tired
of his lecture, he had only to gape or yawn, and the professor instantly caught the sympathetic
affection; so that he thus continued to stand speechless, with his mouth wide open, till his
servant, from the next room, was called in to set his jaw again.'

[46] Dr. Shebbeare (post, April 18, 1778) was tried for writing a libellous pamphlet. Horace
Walpole says:--'The bitterest parts of the work were a satire on William III and George I.
The most remarkable part of this trial was the Chief Justice Mansfield laying down for law
that satires even on dead Kings were punishable. Adieu! veracity and history, if the King's
bench is to appreciate your expressions!' Memoirs of the Reign of George II, iii. 153.

[47] What Dr. Johnson has here said, is undoubtedly good sense; yet I am afraid that law, though
defined by Lord Coke 'the perfection of reason,' is not altogether with him; for it is held
in the books, that an attack on the reputation even of a dead man, may be punished as a libel,
because tending to a breach of the peace. There is, however, I believe, no modern decided case
to that effect. In the King's Bench, Trinity Term, 1790, the question occurred on occasion
of an indictment, The King v. Topham, who, as a proprietor of a news-paper entitled The World,
was found guilty of a libel against Earl Cowper, deceased, because certain injurious charges
against his Lordship were published in that paper. An arrest of Judgment having been moved
for, the case was afterwards solemnly argued. My friend Mr. Const, whom I delight in having
an opportunity to praise, not only for his abilities but his manners; a gentleman whose ancient
German blood has been mellowed in England, and who may be truely said to unite the Baron and
the Barrister, was one of the Counsel for Mr. Topham. He displayed much learning and ingenuity
upon the general question; which, however, was not decided, as the Court granted an arrest
chiefly on the informality of the indictment. No man has a higher reverence for the law of
England than I have; but, with all deference I cannot help thinking, that prosecution by indictment,
if a defendant is never to be allowed to justify, must often be very oppressive, unless Juries,
whom I am more and more confirmed in holding to be judges of law as well as of fact, resolutely
interpose. Of late an act of Parliament has passed declaratory of their full right to one as
well as the other, in matter of libel; and the bill having been brought in by a popular gentleman,
many of his party have in most extravagant terms declaimed on the wonderful acquisition to
the liberty of the press. For my own part I ever was clearly of opinion that this right was
inherent in the very constitution of a Jury, and indeed in sense and reason inseparable from
their important function. To establish it, therefore, by Statute, is, I think, narrowing its
foundation, which is the broad and deep basis of Common Law. Would it not rather weaken the
right of primo-geniture, or any other old and universally-acknowledged right, should the legislature
pass an act in favour of it? In my Letter to the People of Scotland, against diminishing the
number of the Lords of Session, published in 1785, there is the following passage, which, as
a concise, and I hope a fair and rational state of the matter, I presume to quote: 'The Juries
of England are Judges of law as well as of fact, in many civil, and in all criminals trials.
That my principles of resistance may not be misapprehended and more than my principles of submission,
I protest that I should be the last man in the world to encourage Juries to contradict rashly,
wantonly, or perversely, the opinion of the Judges. On the contrary, I would have them listen
respectfully to the advise they receive from the Bench, by which they may be often well directed
in forming their own opinion; which, "and not anothers," is the opinion they are to return
upon their oaths. But where, after due attention to all that the judge has said, they are decidedly
of a different opinion from him, they have not only a power and a right, but they are bound
in conscience to bring in a verdict accordingly.' BOWELL. The World is described by Gifford
in his Baviad and Marviad, as a paper set up by 'a knot of fantastic coxcombs to direct the
taste of the town.' Lowndes (Bibl. Man. ed. 1871, p. 2994) confounds it with The World mentioned
ante, i. 257. The 'popular gentleman' was Fox, whose Libel Bill passed the House of Lords in
June 1792. Parl. Hist. xxix. 1537.

[48] Nobody, that is to say, but Johnson. Post, p. 24, note 2.

[49] Of this service Johnson recorded:--'In the morning I had at church some radiations of
comfort.' Pr. and Med. p. 146.

[50] Baretti, in a marginal note on Piozzi Letters, i. 311, says:-- 'Mr. Thrale, who was a
worldly man, and followed the direction of his own feelings with no philosophical or Christian
distinctions, having now lost the strong hope of being one day succeeded in the profitable
Brewery by the only son he had left, gave himself silently up to his grief, and fell in a few
years a victim to it.' In a second note (ii. 22) he says:--'The poor man could never subdue
his grief on account of his son's death.'

[51] A gentleman, who from his extraordinary stores of knowledge, has been stiled omniscient.
Johnson, I think very properly, altered it to all-knowing, as it is a verbum solenne, appropriated
to the Supreme Being. BOSWELL.

[52] Mrs. Thrale wrote to him on May 3:--'Should you write about Streatham and Croydon, the
book would be as good to me as a journey to Rome, exactly; for 'tis Johnson, not Falkland's
Islands that interest us, and your style is invariably the same. The sight of Rome might have
excited more reflections indeed than the sight of the Hebrides, and so the book might be bigger,
but it would not be better a jot.' Piozzi Letters, i 318.

[53] Hawkins says (Life, p. 84) that 'Johnson was never greedy of money, but without money
could not be stimulated to write. I have been told by a clergyman with whom he had been long
acquainted, that, being (sic) to preach on a particular occasion, he applied to him for help.
"I will write a sermon for thee," said Johnson, "but thou must pay me for it."' See post, May
1, 1783. Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 150) records an anecdote that he had from Hawkins:--'When
Dr. Johnson was at his work on his Shakespeare, Sir John said to him, "Well! Doctor, now you
have finished your Dictionary, I suppose you will labour your present work con amore for your
reputation." "No Sir," said Johnson, "nothing excites a man to write but necessity."' Walpole
then relates the anecdote of the clergyman, and speaks of Johnson as 'the mercenary.' Walpole's
sinecure offices thirty-nine years before this time brought him in 'near, L2000 a year.' In
1782 he wrote that his office of Usher of the Exchequer was worth L1800 a year. Letters, i.
lxxix, lxxxii.

[54] Swift wrote in 1735, when he was sixty-seven:--'I never got a farthing by anything I writ,
except one about eight years ago, and that was by Mr. Pope's prudent management for me.' Works,
xix. 171. It was, I conjecture, Gulliver's Travels. Hume, in 1757, wrote:--'I am writing the
History of England from the accession of Henry VII. I undertook this work because I was tired
of idleness, and found reading alone, after I had often perused all good books (which I think
is soon done), somewhat a languid occupation.' J. H. Burton's Hume, ii. 33.

[55] This Mr. Ellis was, I believe, the last of that profession called Scriveners, which is
one of the London companies, but of which the business is no longer carried on separately,
but is transacted by attornies and others. He was a man of literature and talents. He was the
authour of a Hudibrastick version of Maphaesus's Canto, in addition to the AEneid; of some
poems in Dodsley's Collections; and various other small pieces; but being a very modest man,
never put his name to anything. He shewed me a translation which he had made of Ovid's Epistles,
very prettily done. There is a good engraved portrait of him by Pether, from a picture by Fry,
which hangs in the hall of the Scriveners' company. I visited him October 4, 1790, in his ninety-third
year, and found his judgment distinct and clear, and his memory, though faded so as to fail
him occasionally, yet, as he assured me, and I indeed perceived, able to serve him very well,
after a little recollection. It was agreeable to observe, that he was free from the discontent
and fretfulness which too often molest old age. He in the summer of that year walked to Rotherhithe,
where he dined, and walked home in the evening. He died on the 31st of December, 1791. BOSWELL.
The version of Maphaesus's 'bombastic' additional Canto is advertised in the Gent. Mag. 1758,
p. 233. The engraver of Mr. Ellis's portrait in the first two editions is called Peffer.

[56] 'Admiral Walsingham boasted that he had entertained more miscellaneous parties than any
other man in London. At one time he had received the Duke of Cumberland, Dr. Johnson, Mr. Nairne
the optician, and Leoni the singer. It was at his table that Dr. Johnson made that excellent
reply to a pert coxcomb who baited him during dinner. "Pray now," said he to the Doctor, "what
would you give, old gentleman, to be as young and sprightly as I am?" "Why, Sir, I think,"
replied Johnson, "I would almost be content to be as foolish."' Cradock's Memoirs, i. 172.

[57] 'Dr. Johnson almost always prefers the company of an intelligent man of the world to that
of a scholar.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 241.

[58] See J.H. Burton's Hume, i. 174, for an account of him.

[59] Lord Macartney, who with his other distinguished qualities, is remarkable also for an
elegant pleasantry, told me, that he met Johnson at Lady Craven's, and that he seemed jealous
of any interference: 'So, (said his Lordship, smiling,) I kept back.' BOSWELL.

[60] See ante, i. 242.

[61] There is an account of him in Sir John Hawkins's Life of Johnson. BOSWELL. Hawkins (Life,
p. 246) records the following sarcasm of Ballow. In a coffee-house he attacked the profession
of physic, which Akenside, who was a physician as well as poet, defended. 'Doctor,' said Ballow,
'after all you have said, my opinion of the profession of physic is this. The ancients endeavoured
to make it a science, and failed; and the moderns to make it a trade, and have succeeded.'

[62] See ante, i. 274.

[63] I have in vain endeavoured to find out what parts Johnson wrote for Dr. James. Perhaps
medical men may. BOSWELL. See ante, i. 159. Johnson, needing medicine at Montrose, 'wrote the
prescription in technical characters.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21, 1773.

[64] Horace Walpole, writing of May in this year, says that General Smith, an adventurer from
the East Indies, who was taken off by Foote in The Nabob, 'being excluded from the fashionable
club of young men of quality at Almack's, had, with a set of sharpers, formed a plan for a
new club, which, by the excess of play, should draw all the young extravagants thither. They
built a magnificent house in St. James's-street, and furnished it gorgeously.' Journal of the
Reign of George III, ii. 39.

[65] He said the same when in Scotland. Boswell's Hebrides, under Nov. 22, 1773. On the other
hand, in The Rambler, No. 80, he wrote:--'It is scarcely possible to pass an hour in honest
conversation, without being able, when we rise from it, to please ourselves with having given
or received some advantages; but a man may shuffle cards, or rattle dice, from noon to midnight,
without tracing any new idea in his mind, or being able to recollect the day by any other token
than his gain or loss, and a confused remembrance of agitated passions, and clamorous altercations.'

[66] 'Few reflect,' says Warburton, 'on what a great wit has so ingenuously owned. That wit
is generally false reasoning.' The wit was Wycherley. See his letter xvi. to Pope in Pope's
Works. Warburton's Divine Legation, i. xii.

[67] 'Perhaps no man was ever more happy than Dr. Johnson in the extempore and masterly defence
of any cause which, at the given moment, he chose to defend.' Stockdale's Memoirs, i. 261.

[68] Burke, in a letter that he wrote in 1771 (Corres. i. 330), must have had in mind his talks
with Johnson. 'Nay,' he said, 'it is not uncommon, when men are got into debates, to take now
one side, now another, of a question, as the momentary humour of the man and the occasion called
for, with all the latitude that the antiquated freedom and ease of English conversation among
friends did, in former days, encourage and excuse.' H.C. Robinson (Diary, iii.

[69] Patrick Lord Elibank, who died in 1778. BOSWELL. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 12, 1773.

[70] Yet he said of him:--'Sir, there is nothing conclusive in his talk.' See post, p. 57.

[71] Johnson records of this Good Friday:--'My design was to pass part of the day in exercises
of piety, but Mr. Boswell interrupted me; of him, however, I could have rid myself; but poor
Thrale, orbus et exspes, came for comfort, and sat till seven, when we all went to church.'
Pr. and Med. p. 146.

[72] Johnson's entries at Easter shew this year, and some of the following years, more peace
of mind than hitherto. Thus this Easter he records, 'I had at church some radiations of comfort....
When I received, some tender images struck me. I was so mollified by the concluding address
to our Saviour that I could not utter it.' Pr. and Med. pp. 146, 149. 'Easter-day, 1777, I
was for some time much distressed, but at last obtained, I hope from the God of peace, more
quiet than I have enjoyed for a long time. 'Good Friday, 1778. I went with some confidence
and calmness through the prayers.' Ib. p. 164.

[73] 'Nunquam enim nisi navi plena tollo vectorem.' Lib. ii. c. vi. BOSWELL.

[74] See ante, i. 187.

[75] See ante, i. 232.

[76] See ante, ii, 219.

[77] Cheyne's English Malady, or a Treatise of Nervous Diseases of All Kinds, 1733. He recommended
a milk, seed, and vegetable diet; by seed he apparently meant any kind of grain. He did not
take meat. He drank green tea. At one time he weighed thirty-two stones. His work shews the
great change in the use of fermented liquors since his time. Thus he says:--'For nearly twenty
years I continued sober, moderate, and plain in my diet, and in my greatest health drank not
above a quart, or three pints at most of wine any day' (p. 235). 'For near one-half of the
time from thirty to sixty I scarce drank any strong liquor at all. It will be found that upon
the whole I drank very little above a pint of wine, or at most not a quart one day with another,
since I was near thirty' (p. 243). Johnson a second time recommended Boswell to read this book,
post, July 2, 1776. See ante, i. 65. Boswell was not the man to follow Cheyne's advice. Of
one of his works Wesley says:--'It is one of the most ingenious books which I ever saw. But
what epicure will ever regard it? for "the man talks against good eating and drinking."' Wesley's
Journal, i. 347. Young, in his Epistles to Pope, No. ii. says:--

'--three ells round huge Cheyne
   rails at meat.'

Dr. J. H. Burton (Life of Hume, i. 45) shews reason for believing that a very curious letter
by Hume was written to Cheyne.

[78] '"Solitude," he said one day, "is dangerous to reason, without being favourable to virtue;
pleasures of some sort are necessary to the intellectual as to the corporeal health; and those
who resist gaiety will be likely for the most part to fall a sacrifice to appetite; for the
solicitations of sense are always at hand, and a dram to a vacant and solitary person is a
speedy and seducing relief. Remember (continued he) that the solitary mortal is certainly luxurious,
probably superstitious, and possibly mad."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 106.

[79] The day before he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Mr. Thrale's alteration of purpose is not weakness
of resolution; it is a wise man's compliance with the change of things, and with the new duties
which the change produces. Whoever expects me to be angry will be disappointed. I do not even
grieve at the effect, I grieve only at the cause.' Piozzi Letters, i. 314. Mrs. Thrale on May
3 wrote:--'Baretti said you would be very angry, because this dreadful event made us put off
our Italian journey, but I knew you better. Who knows even now that 'tis deferred for ever?
Mr. Thrale says he shall not die in peace without seeing Rome, and I am sure he will go no-where
that he can help without you.' Ib. p. 317.

[80] See ante, i. 346.

[81] See post, July 22, 1777, note, where Boswell complains of children being 'suffered to
poison the moments of festivity.'

[82] Boswell, post, under March 30, 1783, says, 'Johnson discovered a love of little children
upon all occasions.'

[83] Johnson at a later period thought otherwise. Post, March 30, 1778.

[84] Pope borrowed from the following lines:--

'When on my sick bed I languish, Full of sorrow, full of anguish; Fainting, gasping, trembling,
crying, Panting, groaning, speechless, dying-- Methinks I hear some gentle spirit say, Be not
fearful, come away.'

Campbell's Brit. Poets, p. 301.

[85] In Rochester's Allusion to the Tenth Satire of the First Book of Horace.

[86] In the Monthly Review for May, 1792, there is such a correction of the above passage,
as I should think myself very culpable not to subjoin. 'This account is very inaccurate. The
following statement of facts we know to be true, in every material circumstance:--Shiels was
the principal collector and digester of the materials for the work: but as he was very raw
in authourship, an indifferent writer in prose, and his language full of Scotticisms, Cibber,
who was a clever, lively fellow, and then soliciting employment among the booksellers, was
engaged to correct the style and diction of the whole work, then intended to make only four
volumes, with power to alter, expunge, or add, as he liked. He was also to supply notes, occasionally,
especially concerning those dramatick poets with whom he had been chiefly conversant. He also
engaged to write several of the Lives; which, (as we are told,) he, accordingly, performed.
He was farther useful in striking out the Jacobitical and Tory sentiments, which Shiels had
industriously interspersed wherever he could bring them in:--and, as the success of the work
appeared, after all, very doubtful, he was content with twenty-one pounds for his labour beside
a few sets of the books, to disperse among his friends.--Shiels had nearly seventy pounds,
beside the advantage of many of the best Lives in the work being communicated by friends to
the undertaking; and for which Mr. Shiels had the same consideration as for the rest, being
paid by the sheet, for the whole. He was, however, so angry with his Whiggish supervisor, (He,
like his father, being a violent stickler for the political principles which prevailed in the
Reign of George the Second,) for so unmercifully mutilating his copy, and scouting his politicks,
that he wrote Cibber a challenge: but was prevented from sending it, by the publisher, who
fairly laughed him out of his fury. The proprietors, too, were discontented, in the end, on
account of Mr. Cibber's unexpected industry; for his corrections and alterations in the proof-sheets
were so numerous and considerable, that the printer made for them a grievous addition to his
bill; and, in fine, all parties were dissatisfied. On the whole, the work was productive of
no profit to the undertakers, who had agreed, in case of success, to make Cibber a present
of some addition to the twenty guineas which he had received, and for which his receipt is
now in the booksellers' hands. We are farther assured, that he actually obtained an additional
sum; when he, soon after, (in the year 1758,) unfortunately embarked for Dublin, on an engagement
for one of the theatres there: but the ship was cast away, and every person on board perished.
There were about sixty passengers, among whom was the Earl of Drogheda, with many other persons
of consequence and property. [Gent. Mag. 1758, p. 555.]

'As to the alledged design of making the compilement pass for the work of old Mr. Cibber, the
charges seem to have been founded on a somewhat uncharitable construction. We are assured that
the thought was not harboured by some of the proprietors, who are still living; and we hope
that it did not occur to the first designer of the work, who was also the printer of it, and
who bore a respectable character.

'We have been induced to enter thus circumstantially into the foregoing detail of facts relating
to The Lives of the Poets, compiled by Messrs. Cibber and Shiels, from a sincere regard to
that sacred principle of Truth, to which Dr. Johnson so rigidly adhered, according to the best
of his knowledge; and which we believe, no consideration would have prevailed on him to violate.
In regard to the matter, which we now dismiss, he had, no doubt, been misled by partial and
wrong information: Shiels was the Doctor's amanuensis; he had quarrelled with Cibber; it is
natural to suppose that he told his story in his own way; and it is certain that he was not
"a very sturdy moralist." [The quotation is from Johnson's Works, ix. 116.] This explanation
appears to me very satisfactory. It is, however, to be observed, that the story told by Johnson
does not rest solely upon my record of his conversation; for he himself has published it in
his Life of Hammond [ib. viii. 90], where he says, "the manuscript of Shiels is now in my possession."
Very probably he had trusted to Shiels's word, and never looked at it so as to compare it with
The Lives of the Poets, as published under Mr. Cibber's name. What became of that manuscript
I know not. I should have liked much to examine it. I suppose it was thrown into the fire in
that impetuous combustion of papers, which Johnson I think rashly executed, when moribundus.'
BOSWELL. Mr. Croker, quoting a letter by Griffiths the publisher, says:--'The question is now
decided by this letter in opposition to Dr. Johnson's assertion.' Croker's Boswell, p. 818.
The evidence of such an infamous fellow as Griffiths is worthless. (For his character see Forster's
Goldsmith, i. 161.) As the Monthly Review was his property, the passage quoted by Boswell was,
no doubt, written by his direction. D'Israeli (Curiosities of Literature, ed. 1834, vi. 375)
says that Oldys (ante, i. 175) made annotations on a copy of Langbaine's Dramatic Poets. 'This
Langbaine, with additions by Coxeter, was bought by Theophilus Cibber; on the strength of these
notes he prefixed his name to the first collection of the Lives of Our Poets, written chiefly
by Shiels.'

[87] Mason's Memoirs of Gray's Life was published in 1775. Johnson, in his Life of Gray (Works,
viii. 476), praises Gray's portion of the book:--'They [Gray and Horace Walpole] wandered through
France into Italy; and Gray's Letters contain a very pleasing account of many parts of their
journey.' 'The style of Madame de Sevigne,' wrote Mackintosh (Life, ii. 221), 'is evidently
copied, not only by her worshipper Walpole, but even by Gray; notwithstanding the extraordinary
merits of his matter, he has the double stiffness of an imitator and of a college recluse.'

[88] See ante, ii. 164.

[89] This impartiality is very unlikely. In 1757 Griffiths, the owner of the Monthly, aiming
a blow at Smollett, the editor of the Critical, said that The Monthly Review was not written
by 'physicians without practice, authors without learning, men without decency, gentlemen without
manners, and critics without judgement.' Smollett retorted:-- 'The Critical Review is not written
by a parcel of obscure hirelings, under the restraint of a bookseller and his wife, who presume
to revise, alter, and amend the articles occasionally. The principal writers in the Critical
Review are unconnected with booksellers, un-awed by old women, and independent of each other.'
Forster's Goldsmith, i. 100. 'A fourth share in The Monthly Review was sold in 1761 for L755.'
A Bookseller of the Last Century, p. 19.

[90] See ante, ii. 39.

[91] Horace Walpole writes:--'The scope of the Critical Review was to decry any work that appeared
favourable to the principles of the Revolution.' Memoirs of the Reign of George II, iii. 260.

[92] 'The story of this publication is remarkable. The whole book was printed twice over, a
great part of it three times, and many sheets four or five times. The booksellers paid for
the first impression; but the charges and repeated operations of the press were at the expense
of the author, whose ambitious accuracy is known to have cost him at least a thousand pounds.
He began to print in 1755. Three volumes appeared in 1764, and the conclusion in 1771. Andrew
Reid undertook to persuade Lyttelton, as he had persuaded himself, that he was master of the
secret of punctuation; and, as fear begets credulity, he was employed, I know not at what price,
to point the pages of Henry the Second. When time brought the History to a third edition, Reid
was either dead or discarded; and the superintendence of typography and punctuation was committed
to a man originally a comb-maker, but then known by the style of Doctor. Something uncommon
was probably expected, and something uncommon was at last done; for to the Doctor's edition
is appended, what the world had hardly seen before, a list of errors in nineteen pages.' Johnson's
Works, viii. 492. In the first edition of The Lives of the Poets 'the Doctor' is called Dr.
Saunders. So ambitious was Lord Lyttelton's accuracy that in the second edition he gave a list
of 'false stops which hurt the sense.' For instance, the punctuation of the following paragraph:--'The
words of Abbot Suger, in his life of Lewis le Gros, concerning this prince are very remarkable,'
he thus corrects, 'after prince a comma is wanting.' See ante, ii. 37.

[93] According to Horace Walpole, Lyttelton had angered Smollett by declining 'to recommend
to the stage' a comedy of his. 'He promised,' Walpole continues, 'if it should be acted, to
do all the service in his power for the author. Smollett's return was drawing an abusive portrait
of Lord Lyttelton in Roderick Random.' Memoirs of the Reign of George II, iii. 259.

[94] Spectator, No. 626. See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection, near the end.

[95] When Steele brought The Spectator to the close of its first period, he acknowledged in
the final number (No. 555) his obligation to his assistants. In a postscript to the later editions
he says:--'It had not come to my knowledge, when I left off The Spectator, that I owe several
excellent sentiments and agreeable pieces in this work to Mr. Ince, of Gray's Inn.' Mr. Ince
died in 1758. Gent. Mag. 1758, p. 504.

[96] Spectator, No. 364.

[97] Sir Edward Barry, Baronet. BOSWELL.

[98] 'We form our words with the breath of our nostrils, we have the less to live upon for
every word we speak.' Jeremy Taylor's Holy Dying, ch. i. sec. 1.

[99] On this day Johnson sent the following application for rooms in Hampton Court to the Lord
Chamberlain:--

'My Lord, Being wholly unknown to your lordship, I have only this apology to make for presuming
to trouble you with a request, that a stranger's petition, if it cannot be easily granted,
can be easily refused. Some of the apartments are now vacant in which I am encouraged to hope
that by application to your lordship I may obtain a residence. Such a grant would be considered
by me as a great favour; and I hope that to a man who has had the honour of vindicating his
Majesty's Government, a retreat in one of his houses may not be improperly or unworthily allowed.
I therefore request that your lordship will be pleased to grant such rooms in Hampton Court
as shall seem proper to

'My Lord,

'Your lordship's most obedient and most faithful humble servant,

'SAM. JOHNSON.'

'April 11, 1776.'

'Mr. Saml. Johnson to the Earl of Hertford, requesting apartments at Hampton Court, 11th May,
1776.' And within, a memorandum of the answer:--'Lord C. presents his compliments to Mr. Johnson,
and is sorry he cannot obey his commands, having already on his hands many engagements unsatisfied.'
Prior's Malone, p. 337. The endorsement does not, it will be seen, agree in date with the letter.
Lord C. stands for the Lord Chamberlain.

[100] Hogarth saw Garrick in Richard III, and on the following night in Abel Drugger; he was
so struck, that he said to him, 'You are in your element when you are begrimed with dirt, or
up to your elbows in blood.' Murphy's Garrick, p. 21. Cooke, in his Memoirs of Macklin, p.
110, says that a Lichfield grocer, who came to London with a letter of introduction to Garrick
from Peter Garrick, saw him act Abel Drugger, and returned without calling on him. He said
to Peter Garrick: 'I saw enough of him on the stage. He may be rich, as I dare say any man
who lives like him must be; but by G-d, though he is your brother, Mr. Garrick, he is one of
the shabbiest, meanest, most pitiful hounds I ever saw in the whole course of my life.' Abel
Drugger is a character in Ben Jonson's Alchemist.

[101] See post, under Sept. 30, 1783.

[102] Lord Shelburne in 1766, at the age of twenty-nine, was appointed Secretary of State in
Lord Chatham's ministry. Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, ii. 1. Jeremy Bentham said of him:--'His
head was not clear. He felt the want of clearness. He had had a most wretched education.' Ib.
p. 175. Match me that among your young folks.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 177.

[104] Lady Hesketh, taking up apparently a thought which Paoli, as reported by Boswell, had
thrown out in conversation, proposed to Cowper the Mediterranean for a topic. 'He replied,
"Unless I were a better historian than I am, there would be no proportion between the theme
and my ability. It seems, indeed, not to be so properly a subject for one poem, as for a dozen."'
Southey's Cowper, iii. 15, and vii. 44.

[105] Burke said:--'I do not know how it has happened, that orators have hitherto fared worse
in the hands of the translators than even the poets; I never could bear to read a translation
of Cicero.' Life of Sir W. Jones, p. 196.

[106] See ante, ii. 188.

[107] See ante, ii. 182.

[108] See post, under date of Dec. 24, 1783, where mention seems to be made of this evening.

[109] See ante, note, p. 30. BOSWELL

[110] 'Thomson's diction is in the highest degree florid and luxuriant, such as may be said
to be to his images and thoughts "both their lustre and their shade;" such as invest them with
splendour, through which, perhaps, they are not always easily discerned.' Johnson's Works,
viii. 378. See ante, i. 453, and ii. 63.

[111] A Collection of Poems in six volumes by several hands, 1758.

[112] Ib. i. 116.

[113] Mr. Nicholls says, 'The Spleen was a great favourite with Gray for its wit and originality.'
Gray's Works, v. 36. See post, Oct. 10, 1779, where Johnson quotes two lines from it. 'Fling
but a stone, the giant dies,' is another line that is not unknown.

[115] Goldsmith wrote a prologue for it. Horace Walpole wrote on Dec. 14, 1771 (Letters, v.
356):--'There is a new tragedy at Covent Garden called Zobeide, which I am told is very indifferent,
though written by a country gentleman.' Cradock in his old age published his own Memoirs.

[116] '"Dr. Farmer," said Johnson {speaking of this essay}, "you have done that which never
was done before; that is, you have completely finished a controversy beyond all further doubt."
"There are some critics," answered Farmer, "who will adhere to their old opinions." "Ah!" said
Johnson, "that may be true; for the limbs will quiver and move when the soul is gone."' Northcote's
Reynolds, i. 152. Farmer was Master of Emanuel College, Cambridge (ante, i. 368). In a letter
dated Oct. 3, 1786, published in Romilly's Life (i. 332), it is said:--'Shakespeare and black
letter muster strong at Emanuel.'

[117] 'When Johnson once glanced at this Liberal Translation of the New Testament, and saw
how Dr. Harwood had turned Jesus wept into Jesus, the Saviour of the world, burst into a flood
of tears, he contemptuously threw the book aside, exclaiming, "Puppy!" The author, Dr. Edward
Harwood, is not to be confounded with Dr. Thomas Harwood, the historian of Lichfield.' Croker's
Boswell, p. 836.

[118] See an ingenious Essay on this subject by the late Dr. Moor, Greek Professor at Glasgow.
BOSWELL.

[119] See ante, i. 6, note 2.

[120] 'Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book!' Job xix. 23.

[121] 'The gradual progress which Iago makes in the Moor's conviction, and the circumstances
which he employs to inflame him, are so artfully natural, that, though it will perhaps not
be said of him as he says of himself, that he is "a man not easily jealous," yet we cannot
but pity him, when at last we find him "perplexed in the extreme."' Johnson's Works, v. 178.

[122] Of Dennis's criticism of Addison's Cato, he says:--'He found and shewed many faults;
he shewed them indeed with anger, but he found them with acuteness, such as ought to rescue
his criticism from oblivion.' Ib. vii. 457. In a note on 'thunder rumbling from the mustard-bowl'
(The Dunciad, ii. 226) it is said:--'Whether Mr. Dennis was the inventor of that improvement,
I know not; but is certain that, being once at a tragedy of a new author, he fell into a great
passion at hearing some, and cried, "S'death! that is my thunder."' See D'Israeli's Calamities
of Authors, i. 135, for an amplification of this story.

[123] Sir James Mackintosh thought Cumberland was meant. I am now satisfied that it was Arthur
Murphy. CROKER. The fact that Murphy's name is found close to the story renders it more likely
that Mr. Croker is right.

[124] 'Obscenity and impiety,' Johnson boasted in the last year of his life, 'have always been
repressed in my company.' Post, June 11, 1784. See also post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[125] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 18.

[126] See ib. Aug. 15.

[127] See post, April 28, 29, 1778.

[128] See ante, Jan. 21, 1775, note.

[129] See post, April 28, 1778. That he did not always scorn to drink when in company is shewn
by what he said on April 7, 1778:--'I have drunk three bottles of port without being the worse
for it. University College has witnessed this.'

[130] Copy is manuscript for printing.

[132] See ante, i. 428.

[133] We have here an involuntary testimony to the excellence of this admirable writer, to
whom we have seen that Dr. Johnson directly allowed so little merit. BOSWELL. 'Fielding's Amelia
was the most pleasing heroine of all the romances,' he said; 'but that vile broken nose never
cured [Amelia, bk. ii. ch. 1] ruined the sale of perhaps the only book, which being printed
off betimes one morning, a new edition was called for before night.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 221.
Mrs. Carter, soon after the publication of Amelia, wrote (Corres. ii. 71):--'Methinks I long
to engage you on the side of this poor unfortunate book, which I am told the fine folks are
unanimous in pronouncing to be very sad stuff.' See ante, ii. 49.

[134] Horace Walpole wrote, on Dec, 21, 1775 (Letters, vi. 298):-- 'Mr. Cumberland has written
an Ode, as he modestly calls it, in praise of Gray's Odes; charitably no doubt to make the
latter taken notice of. Garrick read it the other night at Mr. Beauclerk's, who comprehended
so little what it was about, that he desired Garrick to read it backwards, and try if it would
not be equally good; he did, and it was.' It was to this reading backwards that Dean Barnard
alludes in his verses--

'The art of pleasing, teach me, Garrick; Thou who reversest odes Pindaric, A second time read
o'er.'

See post, under May 8, 1781.

[135] Mr. Romney, the painter, who has now deservedly established a high reputation. BOSWELL.
Cumberland (Memoirs, i. 384) dedicated his Odes to him, shortly after 'he had returned from
pursuing his studies at Rome.' 'A curious work might be written,' says Mr. Croker, 'on the
reputation of painters. Hayley dedicated his lyre (such as it was) to Romney. What is a picture
of Romney now worth?' The wheel is come full circle, and Mr. Croker's note is as curious as
the work that he suggests.

[136] Page 32 of this vol. BOSWELL.

[137] Thurlow.

[138] Wedderburne. Boswell wrote to Temple on May 1:--'Luckily Dr. Taylor has begged of Dr.
Johnson to come to London, to assist him in some interesting business, and Johnson loves much
to be so consulted and so comes up.' Letters of Boswell, p. 234. On the 14th Johnson wrote
to Mrs. Thrale:--'Mr. Wedderburne has given his opinion today directly against us. He thinks
of the claim much as I think.' Piozzi Letters, i. 323. In Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 423,
in a letter from Johnson to Taylor, this business is mentioned.

[139] Goldsmith wrote in 1762:--'Upon a stranger's arrival at Bath he is welcomed by a peal
of the Abbey bells, and in the next place by the voice and music of the city waits.' Cunningham's
Goldsmith's Works, iv. 57. In Humphry Clinker (published in 1771), in the Letter of April 24,
we read that there was 'a peal of the Abbey bells for the honour of Mr. Bullock, an eminent
cow-keeper of Tottenham, who had just arrived at Bath to drink the waters for indigestion.'
The town waits are also mentioned. The season was not far from its close when Boswell arrived.
Melford, in Humphry Clinker, wrote from Bath on May 17:--'The music and entertainments of Bath
are over for this season; and all our gay birds of passage have taken their flight to Bristol-well
[Clifton], Tunbridge, Brighthelmstone, Scarborough, Harrowgate, &c. Not a soul is seen in this
place, but a few broken-winded parsons, waddling like so many crows along the North Parade.'
Boswell had soon to return to London 'to eat commons in the Inner Temple.' Delighted with Bath,
and apparently pleasing himself with the thought of a brilliant career at the Bar, he wrote
to Temple, 'Quin said, "Bath was the cradle of age, and a fine slope to the grave." Were I
a Baron of the Exchequer and you a Dean, how well could we pass some time there!' Letters of
Boswell, pp. 231, 234.

[140] To the rooms! and their only son dead three days over one month!

'That it should come to this! But two months dead: nay, not so much, not two.'

Hamlet, act i. sc. 2.

[141] No doubt Mr. Burke. See ante, April 15, 1773, and under Oct. 1, 1774, note, and Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 15.

[142] Mr. E.J. Payne, criticising this passage, says:--'It is certain that Burke never thought
he was deserting any principle of his own in joining the Rockinghams.' Payne's Burke, i. xvii.

[143] No doubt Mrs. Macaulay. See ante, i. 447. 'Being asked whether he had read Mrs. Macaulay's
second volume of the History of England, "No, Sir," says he, "nor her first neither."' Johnson's
Works (1787), xi. 205.

[144] 'Of this distinguished Epilogue the reputed author was the wretched Budgel, whom Addison
used to denominate "the man who calls me cousin" [Spence's Anecdotes, ed. 1820, p. 161]; and
when he was asked how such a silly fellow could write so well, replied, "The Epilogue was quite
another thing when I saw it first." [Ib. p. 257.] It was known in Tonson's family, and told
to Garrick, that Addison was himself the author of it, and that, when it had been at first
printed with his name, he came early in the morning, before the copies were distributed, and
ordered it to be given to Budgel, that it might add weight to the solicitation which he was
then making for a place.' Johnson's Works, viii. 389. See ante, i. 181.

[145] See post, Jan. 20, 1782.

[146] On May 10, 1768, on which day the new parliament met, a great body of people gathered
round the King's Bench prison in St. George's Fields in expectation that Wilkes would go thence
to the House of Commons. Some kind of a riot arose, a proclamation was made in the terms of
the Riot-Act, and the soldiers firing by order of Justice Gillam, killed five or six on the
spot. The justice and one of the soldiers were on the coroner's inquest brought in guilty of
wilful murder, and two other soldiers of aiding and abetting therein. With great difficulty
the prisoners were saved from the rage of the populace. They were all acquitted however. At
Gillam's trial the judge ruled in his favour, so that the case did not go to the jury. Of the
trial of one of the soldiers 'no account was allowed to be published by authority.' Ann. Reg.
1768, pp. 108-9, 112, 136-8, 233. Professor Dicey (Law of the Constitution, p. 308) points
out that 'the position of a soldier may be both in theory and practice, a difficult one. He
may, as it has been well said, be liable to be shot by a court-martial if he disobeys an order,
and to be hanged by a judge and jury if he obeys it.' The remembrance of these cases was perhaps
the cause of the feebleness shewn in the Gordon Riots in June 1780. Dr. Franklin wrote from
London on May 14, 1768 (Memoirs, iii. 315):--'Even this capital is now a daily scene of lawless
riot. Mobs patrolling the streets at noon-day, some knocking all down that will not roar for
Wilkes and liberty; courts of justice afraid to give judgment against him; coal-heavers and
porters pulling down the houses of coal-merchants that refuse to give them more wages; sawyers
destroying saw-mills; sailors unrigging all the outward-bound ships, and suffering none to
sail till merchants agree to raise their pay; watermen destroying private boats, and threatening
bridges; soldiers firing among the mobs and killing men, women, and children.' 'While I am
writing,' he adds (ib. p. 316), 'a great mob of coal-porters fill the street, carrying a wretch
of their business upon poles to be ducked for working at the old wages.' See also ib. p. 402.
Hume agreed with Johnson about the 'imbecility' of the government; but he drew from it different
conclusions. He wrote on Oct. 27, 1775, about the addresses to the King:--'I wish they would
advise him first to punish those insolent rascals in London and Middlesex, who daily insult
him and the whole legislature, before he thinks of America. Ask him, how he can expect that
a form of government will maintain an authority at 3000 miles' distance, when it cannot make
itself be respected, or even be treated with common decency, at home.' J. H. Burton's Hume,
ii. 479. On the 30th of this month of April--four days after the conversation in the text--John
Home recorded:--'Mr. Hume cannot give any reason for the incapacity and want of genius, civil
and military, which marks this period.' Ib. p. 503.

[147] See Dr. Johnson, His Friends, &c., p. 252.

[148] It was published in 1743.

[149] I am sorry that there are no memoirs of the Reverend Robert Blair, the author of this
poem. He was the representative of the ancient family of Blair, of Blair, in Ayrshire, but
the estate had descended to a female, and afterwards passed to the son of her husband by another
marriage. He was minister of the parish of Athelstanford, where Mr. John Home was his successor;
so that it may truely be called classick ground. His son, who is of the same name, and a man
eminent for talents and learning, is now, with universal approbation, Solicitor-General of
Scotland. BOSWELL. Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 94) describes Blair 'as so austere and void of
urbanity as to make him quite disagreeable to young people.'

[150] In 1775 Mrs. Montagu gave Mrs. Williams a small annuity. Croker's Boswell, pp. 458, 739.
Miss Burney wrote of her:--'Allowing a little for parade and ostentation, which her power in
wealth and rank in literature offer some excuse for, her conversation is very agreeable.' Mme.
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 325. See post, April 7, 1778, note.

[151]

'Let humble Allen, with an awkward shame, Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame.'

Pope, Sat. Ep. i. 135.

[152] Johnson refers to Jenyns's View of the Internal Evidence of the Christian Religion, published
this spring. See post, April 15, 1778. Jenyns had changed his view, for in his Origin of Evil
he said, in a passage quoted with applause by Johnson (Works, vi. 69), that 'it is observable
that he who best knows our formation has trusted no one thing of importance to our reason or
virtue; he trusts to our vanity or compassion for our bounty to others.'

[153] Mr. Langton is certainly meant. It is strange how often his mode of living was discussed
by Johnson and Boswell. See post, Nov. 16, 1776, July 22, and Sept. 22, 1777, March 18, April
17, 18, and 20, May 12, and July 3, 1778.

[154] Baretti made a brutal attack on Mrs. Piozzi in the European Mag. for 1788, xiii. 313,
393, and xiv. 89. He calls her 'the frontless female, who goes now by the mean appellation
of Piozzi; La Piozzi, as my fiddling countrymen term her; who has dwindled down into the contemptible
wife of her daughter's singing-master.' His excuse was the attacks made on him by her in the
correspondence just published between herself and Johnson (see Piozzi Letters, i. 277, 319).
He suspected her, and perhaps with reason, of altering some of these letters. Other writers
beside Baretti attacked her. To use Lord Macaulay's words, grossly exaggerated though they
are, 'She fled from the laughter and hisses of her countrymen and countrywomen to a land where
she was unknown.' Macaulay's Writings and Speeches, ed. 1871, p. 393. According to Dr. T. Campbell
(Diary, p. 33) Baretti flattered Mrs. Thrale to her face. 'Talking as we were at tea of the
magnitude of the beer vessels, Baretti said there was one thing in Mr. Thrale's house still
more extraordinary; meaning his wife. She gulped the pill very prettily--so much for Baretti.'
See post, Dec. 21, 1776.

[155] Likely enough Boswell himself. On three other occasions he mentions Otaheite; ante, May
7, 1773, post, June 15, 1784 and in his Hebrides, Sept. 23, 1773. He was fond of praising savage
life. See ante, ii. 73.

[156] Chatterton said that he had found in a chest in St. Mary Redcliffe Church manuscript
poems by Canynge, a merchant of Bristol in the fifteenth century, and a friend of his, Thomas
Rowley. He gave some of these manuscripts to George Catcot, a pewterer of Bristol, who communicated
them to Mr. Barret, who was writing a History of Bristol. Rose's Biog. Dict. vi. 256.

[157] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22.

[158] See ante, i. 396.

[159] 'Artificially. Artfully; with skill.' Johnson's dictionary.

[160] Mr. Tyrwhitt, Mr. Warton, Mr. Malone. BOSWELL. Johnson wrote on May 16:--'Steevens seems
to be connected with Tyrwhitt in publishing Chatterton's poems; he came very anxiously to know
the result of our inquiries, and though he says he always thought them forged, is not well
pleased to find us so fully convinced.' Piozzi Letters, i. 326.

[161] Catcot had been anticipated by Smith the weaver (2 Henry VI. iv. 2)--'Sir, he made a
chimney in my father's house, and the bricks are alive at this day to testify it; therefore
deny it not.'

[162] Horace Walpole says (Works, iv. 224) that when he was 'dining at the Royal Academy, Dr.
Goldsmith drew the attention of the company with an account of a marvellous treasure of ancient
poems lately discovered at Bristol, and expressed enthusiastic belief in them; for which he
was laughed at by Dr. Johnson, who was present.... You may imagine we did not at all agree
in the measure of our faith; but though his credulity diverted me, my mirth was soon dashed;
for, on asking about Chatterton, he told me he had been in London, and had destroyed himself.'

[163] Boswell returned a few days earlier. I am now at General Paoli's, quite easy and gay,
after my journey; not wearied in body or dissipated in mind. I have lodgings in Gerrard Street,
where cards are left to me; but I lie at the General's, whose attention to me is beautiful.'
Letters of Boswell, p. 234. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on May 6:--'Tomorrow I am to dine,
as I did yesterday, with Dr. Taylor. On Wednesday I am to dine with Oglethorpe; and on Thursday
with Paoli. He that sees before him to his third dinner has a long prospect.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 320.

[164] See ante, May 12, 1775.

[165] In the Dramatis Personae of the play are 'Aimwell and Archer, two gentlemen of broken
fortunes, the first as master, and the second as servant.' See ante, March 23, 1776, for Garrick's
opinion of Johnson's 'taste in theatrical merit.'

[166] Johnson is speaking of the Respublicae Elzevirianae, either 36 or 62 volumes. 'It depends
on every collector what and how much he will admit.' Ebert's Bibl. Dict. iii. 1571. See ante,
ii. 7.

[167] See post, under Oct. 20, 1784, for 'the learned pig.'

[168] In the first edition Mme. de Sevigne's name is printed Sevigne, in the second Sevige,
in the third Sevigne. Authors and compositors last century troubled themselves little about
French words.

[169] Milton had put the same complaint into Adam's mouth:--

'Did I request thee, Maker, from my clay To mould me man? ... ... As my will Concurred not
to my being,' &c.

Paradise Lost, x. 743.

[170] See ante, April 10, 1775.

[171] Fielding in the Covent Garden Journal for June 2, 1752 (Works, x. 80), says of the difficulty
of admission at the hospitals:--'The properest objects (those I mean who are most wretched
and friendless) may as well aspire at a place at Court as at a place in the Hospital.'

[172] 'We were talking of Dr. Barnard, the Provost of Eton. "He was the only man," says Mr.
Johnson quite seriously, "that did justice to my good breeding; and you may observe that I
am well-bred to a degree of needless scrupulosity. No man," continued he, not observing the
amazement of his hearers, "no man is so cautious not to interrupt another; no man thinks it
so necessary to appear attentive when others are speaking; no man so steadily refuses preference
on himself, or so willingly bestows it on another, as I do; no man holds so strongly as I do
the necessity of ceremony, and the ill effects which follow the breach of it; yet people think
me rude; but Barnard did me justice."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 36. On p. 258, Mrs. Piozzi writes:--'No
one was indeed so attentive not to offend in all such sort of things as Dr. Johnson; nor so
careful to maintain the ceremonies of life; and though he told Mr. Thrale once, that he had
never sought to please till past thirty years old, considering the matter as hopeless, he had
been always studious not to make enemies by apparent preference of himself.' See Boswell's
Hebrides, Oct. 27, 1773, where Johnson said:--'Sir, I look upon myself as a very polite man.'

[173] The younger Colman in his boyhood met Johnson and Gibbon. 'Johnson was in his rusty brown
and his black worsteds, and Gibbon in a suit of flowered velvet, with a bag and sword. He condescended,
once or twice in the course of the evening, to talk with me;--the great historian was light
and playful, suiting his matter to the capacity of the boy; but it was done more sua [sic];
still his mannerism prevailed; still he tapped his snuff-box; still he smirked, and smiled,
and rounded his periods with the same air of good-breeding, as if he were conversing with men.
His mouth, mellifluous as Plato's, was a round hole, nearly in the centre of his visage.' Random
Records, i. 121.

[174] Samuel Sharp's Letters from Italy were published in 1766. See ante, ii. 57, note 2, for
Baretti's reply to them.

[175] It may be observed, that Mr. Malone, in his very valuable edition of Shakspeare, has
fully vindicated Dr. Johnson from the idle censures which the first of these notes has given
rise to. The interpretation of the other passage, which Dr. Johnson allows to be disputable,
he has clearly shown to be erroneous. BOSWELL. The first note is on the line in Hamlet, act
v. sc. 2--

'And many such like as's of great charge.'

Johnson says:--'A quibble is intended between as the conditional particle, and ass the beast
of burthen.' On this note Steevens remarked:--'Shakespeare has so many quibbles of his own
to answer for, that there are those who think it hard he should be charged with others which
perhaps he never thought of.' The second note is on the opening of Hamlet's soliloquy in act
iii. sc. i. The line--

'To be, or not to be, that is the question,'

is thus paraphrased by Johnson:--'Before I can form any rational scheme of action under this
pressure of distress, it is necessary to decide whether, after our present state, we are to
be or not to be.'

[176] See post, March 30, April 14 and 15, 1778, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 25.

[177] Wesley wrote on Jan. 21, 1767 (Journal, iii. 263):--'I had a conversation with an ingenious
man who proved to a demonstration that it was the duty of every man that could to be "clothed
in purple and fine linen," and to "fare sumptuously every day;" and that he would do abundantly
more good hereby than he could do by "feeding the hungry and clothing the naked." O the depth
of human understanding! What may not a man believe if he will?' Much the same argument Johnson,
thirty-three years earlier, had introduced in one of his Debates (Works, xi. 349). He makes
one of the speakers say:--'Our expenses are not all equally destructive; some, though the method
of raising them be vexatious and oppressive, do not much impoverish the nation, because they
are refunded by the extravagance and luxury of those who are retained in the pay of the court.'
See post, March 23, 1783. The whole argument is nothing but Mandeville's doctrine of 'private
vices, public benefits.' See post, April 15, 1778.

[178] See ante, iii. 24.

[179] Johnson no doubt refers to Walpole in the following passage (Works, viii. l37):--'Of
one particular person, who has been at one time so popular as to be generally esteemed, and
at another so formidable as to be universally detested, Mr. Savage observed that his acquisitions
had been small, or that his capacity was narrow, and that the whole range of his mind was from
obscenity to politicks, and from politicks to obscenity.' This passage is a curious comment
on Pope's lines on Sir Robert--

'Seen him I have, but in his happier hour
 Of social pleasure, ill-exchanged for power.'

Epilogue to the Satires, i. 29.

[180] Most likely Boswell himself. See ante, March 25, 1776, and post, April 10, 1778, for
Johnson's dislike of questioning. See also ante, ii. 84, note 3.

[181] See ante, April 14, 1775.

[182] See ante, May 12, 1774.

[183] A Gallicism, which has it appears, with so many others, become vernacular in Scotland.
The French call a pulpit, la chaire de verite. CROKER.

[184] As a proof of Dr. Johnson's extraordinary powers of composition, it appears from the
original manuscript of this excellent dissertation, of which he dictated the first eight paragraphs
on the 10th of May, and the remainder on the 13th, that there are in the whole only seven corrections,
or rather variations, and those not considerable. Such were at once the vigorous and accurate
emanations of his mind. BOSWELL.

[185] It is curious to observe that Lord Thurlow has here, perhaps in compliment to North Britain,
made use of a term of the Scotch Law, which to an English reader may require explanation. To
qualify a wrong, is to point out and establish it. BOSWELL.

[186]

'Quaeque ipse miserrima vidi, Et quorum pars magna fui.'

'Which thing myself unhappy did behold, Yea, and was no small part thereof.'

Morris, Aeneids, ii. 5.

[187] In the year 1770, in The False Alarm, Johnson attacked Wilkes with more than 'some asperity.'
'The character of the man,' he wrote, 'I have no purpose to delineate. Lampoon itself would
disdain to speak ill of him, of whom no man speaks well.' He called him 'a retailer of sedition
and obscenity;' and he said:--'We are now disputing ... whether Middlesex shall be represented,
or not, by a criminal from a gaol.' Works, vi. 156, 169, 177. In The North Briton, No. xii,
Wilkes, quoting Johnson's definition of a pensioner, asks:--'Is the said Mr. Johnson a dependant?
or is he a slave of state, hired by a stipend to obey his master? There is, according to him,
no alternative.--As Mr. Johnson has, I think, failed in this account, may I, after so great
an authority, venture at a short definition of so intricate a word? A pension then I would
call a gratuity during the pleasure of the Prince for services performed, or expected to be
performed, to himself, or to the state. Let us consider the celebrated Mr. Johnson, and a few
other late pensioners in this light.'

[188] Boswell, in his Letter to the People of Scotland (p. 70), mentions 'my old classical
companion, Wilkes;' and adds, 'with whom I pray you to excuse my keeping company, he is so
pleasant.'

[189] When Johnson was going to Auchinleck, Boswell begged him, in talking with his father,
'to avoid three topicks as to which they differed very widely; whiggism, presbyterianism, and--Sir
John Pringle.' Boswell's Hebrides, Nov 2, 1773. See also ib. Aug 24. 'Pringle was President
of the Royal Society--"who sat in Newton's chair, And wonder'd how the devil he got there."'
J. H. Burton's Hume, i. 165. He was one of Franklin's friends (Franklin's Memoirs iii. III),
and so was likely to be uncongenial to Johnson.

[190] No 22. CROKER. At this house 'Johnson owned that he always found a good dinner.' Post,
April 15, 1778.

[191] This has been circulated as if actually said by Johnson; when the truth is, it was only
supposed by me. BOSWELL.

[192] 'Don't let them be patriots,' he said to Mr. Hoole, when he asked him to collect a city
Club. Post, April 6, 1781.

[193] See p. 7 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[194] 'Indifferent in his choice to sleep or die.' Addison's Cato, act v. sc. 1.

[195] See ante, i. 485.

[196] He was at this time 'employed by Congress as a private and confidential agent in England.'
Dr. Franklin had arranged for letters to be sent to him, not by post but by private hand, under
cover to his brother, Mr. Alderman Lee. Franklin's Memoirs, ii. 42, and iii. 415.

[197] When Wilkes the year before, during his mayoralty, had presented An Address, 'the King
himself owned he had never seen so well-bred a Lord Mayor.' Walpole's Journal of the Reign
of George III, i. 484.

[198] Johnson's London, a Poem, v. 145. BOSWELL--

'How when competitors like these contend, Can surly virtue hope to fix a friend.'

[199] See ante, ii. 154.

[200] Johnson had said much the same at a dinner in Edinburgh. See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov.
10, 1773. See ante, March 15, 1776, and post, Sept. 21, 1777.

[201] 'To convince any man against his will is hard, but to please him against his will is
justly pronounced by Dryden to be above the reach of human abilities.' The Rambler, No. 93.

[202] Foote told me that Johnson said of him, 'For loud obstreperous broadfaced mirth, I know
not his equal.' BOSWELL.

[203] In Farquhar's Beaux-Stratagem, Scrub thus describes his duties: --'Of a Monday I drive
the coach, of a Tuesday I drive the plough, on Wednesday I follow the hounds, a Thursday I
dun the tenants, on Friday I go to market, on Saturday I draw warrants, and a Sunday I draw
beer.' Act iii. sc. 3.

[204] See ante, i. 393, note 1.

[205] See post, April 10, 1778, and April 24, 1779.

[206] See ante, i. 216, note 2.

[207] See ante, March 20, 1776, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22.

[208] Dryden had been dead but thirty-six years when Johnson came to London.

[209] 'Owen MacSwinny, a buffoon; formerly director of the play-house.' Horace Walpole, Letters,
i. 118. Walpole records one of his puns. 'Old Horace' had left the House of Commons to fight
a duel, and at once 'returned, and was so little moved as to speak immediately upon the Cambrick
Bill, which made Swinny say, "That it was a sign he was not ruffled."' Ib. p. 233. See also,
ib. vi. 373 for one of his stories.

[210] A more amusing version of the story, is in Johnsoniana (ed. 1836, p. 413) on the authority
of Mr. Fowke. '"So Sir," said Johnson to Cibber, "I find you know [knew?] Mr. Dryden?" "Know
him? O Lord! I was as well acquainted with him as if he had been my own brother." "Then you
can tell me some anecdotes of him?" "O yes, a thousand! Why we used to meet him continually
at a club at Button's. I remember as well as if it were but yesterday, that when he came into
the room in winter time, he used to go and sit by the fire in one corner; and in summer time
he would always go and sit in the window." "Thus, Sir," said Johnson, "what with the corner
of the fire in winter and the window in summer, you see that I got much information from Cibber
of the manners and habits of Dryden.'" Johnson gives, in his Life of Dryden (Works, vii. 300),
the information that he got from Swinney and Cibber. Dr. Warton, who had written on Pope, found
in one of the poet's female-cousins a still more ignorant survivor. 'He had been taught to
believe that she could furnish him with valuable information. Incited by all that eagerness
which characterised him, he sat close to her, and enquired her consanguinity to Pope. "Pray,
Sir," said she, "did not you write a book about my cousin Pope?" "Yes, madam." "They tell me
t'was vastly clever. He wrote a great many plays, did not he?" "I have heard of only one attempt,
Madam." "Oh no, I beg your pardon; that was Mr. Shakespeare; I always confound them."' Wooll's
Warton, p. 394.

[211] Johnson told Malone that 'Cibber was much more ignorant even of matters relating to his
own profession than he could well have conceived any man to be who had lived nearly sixty years
with players, authors, and the most celebrated characters of the age.' Prior's Malone, p. 95.
See ante, ii. 92.

[212] 'There are few,' wrote Goldsmith, 'who do not prefer a page of Montaigne or Colley Cibber,
who candidly tell us what they thought of the world, and the world thought of them, to the
more stately memoirs and transactions of Europe.' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 43.

[213] Essay on Criticism, i. 66.

[214] 'Cibber wrote as bad Odes (as Garrick), but then Gibber wrote The Careless Husband, and
his own Life, which both deserve immortality.' Walpole's Letters, v. 197. Pope (Imitations
of Horace, II. i. 90), says:--

'All this may be; the people's voice is odd, It is, and it is not, the voice of God. To Gammer
Gurton if it give the bays, And yet deny The Careless Husband praise, Or say our fathers never
broke a rule; Why then, I say, the public is a fool.'

See ante, April 6, 1775.

[215] See page 402 of vol. i. BOSWELL.

[216] Milton's L'Allegro, 1. 36.

[217] 'CATESBY. My Liege, the Duke of Buckingham is taken. RICHARD. Off with his head. So much
for Buckingham.' Colley Gibber's Richard III, iv. I.

[218] Ars Poetica, i. 128.

[219] My very pleasant friend himself, as well as others who remember old stories, will no
doubt be surprised, when I observe that John Wilkes here shews himself to be of the WARBURTONIAN
SCHOOL. For here there is no generally received and fixed archetype to work after, but every
one judges of common right, according to the extent and comprehension of his own idea; therefore
he advises to labour and refit old characters and subjects, particularly those made known and
authorised by the practice of Homer and the Epick writers.'

The 'Note' is,

'Difficile EST PROPRIE COMMUNIA DICERE.' Lambin's Comment is, 'Communia hoc loco appellat Horatius
argumenta fabularum a nullo adhuc tractata: et ita, quae cuivis exposita sunt et in medio quodammodo
posita, quasi vacua et a nemine occupata.' And that this is the true meaning of communia is
evidently fixed by the words ignota indictaque, which are explanatory of it; so that the sense
given it in the commentary is unquestionably the right one. Yet, notwithstanding the clearness
of the case, a late critick has this strange passage: 'Difficile quidem esse proprie communia
dicere, hoc est, materiam vulgarem, notam et e medio petitam, ita immutare atque exornare,
ut nova et scriptori propria videatur, ultra concedimus; et maximi procul dubio ponderis ista
est observatio. Sed omnibus utrinque collatis, et tum difficilis, tum venusti, tam judicii
quam ingenii ratione habita, major videtur esse gloria fabulam formare penitus novam, quam
veterem, utcunque mutatam, de novo exhibere. (Poet. Prael. v. ii. p. 164.) Where, having first
put a wrong construction on the word comnmnia, he employs it to introduce an impertinent criticism.
For where does the poet prefer the glory of refitting old subjects to that of inventing new
ones? The contrary is implied in what he urges about the superiour difficulty of the latter,
from which he dissuades his countrymen, only in respect of their abilities and inexperience
in these matters; and in order to cultivate in them, which is the main view of the Epistle,
a spirit of correctness, by sending them to the old subjects, treated by the Greek writers.'

For my own part (with all deference for Dr. Hurd, who thinks the case clear,) I consider the
passage, 'Difficile est proprie communia dicere,' to be a crux for the criticks on Horace.

The explication which My Lord of Worcester treats with so much contempt, is nevertheless countenanced
by authority which I find quoted by the learned Baxter in his edition of Horace: 'Difficile
est proprie communia dicere, h.e. res vulgares disertis verbis enarrare, vel humile thema cum
dignitate tractare. Difficile est communes res propriis explicare verbis. Vet. Schol.' I was
much disappointed to find that the great critick, Dr. Bentley, has no note upon this very difficult
passage, as from his vigorous and illuminated mind I should have expected to receive more satisfaction
than I have yet had.

Sanadon thus treats of it: 'Proprie communia dicere; c'est a dire, qu'il n'est pas aise de
former a ces personnages d'imagination, des caracteres particuliers et cependant vraisemblables.
Comme l'on a ete le maitre de les former tels qu'on a voulu, les fautes que l'on fait en cela
sont moins pardonnables. C'est pourquoi Horace conseille de prendre toujours des sujets connus
tels que sont par exemple ceux que l'on peut tirer des poemes d'Homere.'

And Dacier observes upon it, 'Apres avoir marque les deux qualites qu'il faut donner aux personnages
qu'on invente, il conseille aux Poetes tragiques, de n'user pas trop facilement de cette liberte
quils ont d'en inventer, car il est tres difficile de reussir dans ces nouveaux caracteres.
Il est mal aise, dit Horace, de traiter proprement, c'st a dire convenablement, des sujets
communs; c'est a dire, des sujets inventes, et qui n'ont aucun fondement ni dans l'Histoire
ni dans la Fable; et il les appelle communs, parce qu'ils sont en disposition a tout le monde,
et que tout le monde a le droit de les inventer, et qu'ils sont, comme on dit, au premier occupant.'
See his observations at large on this expression and the following.

After all, I cannot help entertaining some doubt whether the words, Difficile est proprie communia
dicere, may not have been thrown in by Horace to form a separate article in a 'choice of difficulties'
which a poet has to encounter, who chooses a new subject; in which case it must be uncertain
which of the various explanations is the true one, and every reader has a right to decide as
it may strike his own fancy. And even should the words be understood as they generally are,
to be connected both with what goes before and what comes after, the exact sense cannot be
absolutely ascertained; for instance, whether proprie is meant to signify in an appropriated
manner, as Dr. Johnson here understands it, or, as it is often used by Cicero, with propriety,
or elegantly. In short, it is a rare instance of a defect in perspicuity in an admirable writer,
who with almost every species of excellence, is peculiarly remarkable for that quality. The
length of this note perhaps requires an apology. Many of my readers, I doubt not, will admit
that a critical discussion of a passage in a favourite classick is very engaging. BOSWELL.
Boswell's French in this tedious note is left as he printed it.

[220] Johnson, after describing Settle's attack on Dryden, continues (Works, vii. 277):--'Such
are the revolutions of fame, or such is the prevalence of fashion, that the man whose works
have not yet been thought to deserve the care of collecting them, who died forgotten in an
hospital, and whose latter years were spent in contriving shows for fairs ... might with truth
have had inscribed upon his stone:--

"Here lies the Rival and Antagonist of Dryden."'

Pope introduces him in The Dunciad, i. 87, in the description of the Lord Mayor's Show:--

'Pomps without guilt, of bloodless swords and maces, Glad chains, warm furs, broad banners
and broad faces. Now night descending the proud scene was o'er, But lived in Settle's numbers
one day more.'

In the third book the ghost of Settle acts the part of guide in the Elysian shade.

[221] Johnson implies, no doubt, that they were both Americans by birth. Trecothick was in
the American trade, but he was not an American. Walpole's Memoirs of the Reign of George III,
iii. 184, note. Of Beckford Walpole says:--'Under a jovial style of good humour he was tyrannic
in Jamaica, his native country.' Ib. iv. 156. He came over to England when young and was educated
in Westminster School. Stephens's Horne Tooke, ii. 278. Cowper describes 'a jocular altercation
that passed when I was once in the gallery [of the House], between Mr. Rigby and the late Alderman
Beckford. The latter was a very incorrect speaker, and the former, I imagine, not a very accurate
scholar. He ventured, however, upon a quotation from Terence, and delivered it thus, Sine Scelere
et Baccho friget venus. The Alderman interrupted him, was very severe upon his mistake, and
restored Ceres to her place in the sentence. Mr. Rigby replied, that he was obliged to his
worthy friend for teaching him Latin, and would take the first opportunity to return the favour
by teaching him English.' Southey's Cowper, iii. 317. Lord Chatham, in the House of Lords,
said of Trecothick:--'I do not know in office a more upright magistrate, nor in private life
a worthier man.' Parl. Hist. xvi. 1101. See post, Sept. 23, 1777.

[222]

'Oft have I heard thee mourn the wretched lot Of the poor, mean, despised, insulted Scot, Who,
might calm reason credit idle tales, By rancour forged where prejudice prevails, Or starves
at home, or practises through fear Of starving arts which damn all conscience here.'

Churchill's Prophecy of Famine, Poems, i. 105.

[223] For Johnson's praise of Lichfield see ante, March 23, 1776. For the use of the word civility,
see ante ii. 155.

[224] See ante, i. 447.

[225] See ante, April 18, 1775.

[226] See post, April 15, 1778.

[227] It would not become me to expatiate on this strong and pointed remark, in which a very
great deal of meaning is condensed. BOSWELL.

[228] 'Mr. Wilkes's second political essay was an ironical dedication to the Earl of Bute of
Ben Jonson's play, The Fall of Mortimer. "Let me entreat your Lordship," he wrote, "to assist
your friend [Mr. Murphy] in perfecting the weak scenes of this tragedy, and from the crude
labours of Ben Jonson and others to give us a complete play. It is the warmest wish of my heart
that the Earl of Bute may speedily complete the story of Roger Mortimer."' Almon's Wilkes,
i. 70, 86.

[229] Yet Wilkes within less than a year violently attacked Johnson in parliament. He said,
'The two famous doctors, Shebbeare and Johnson, are in this reign the state hirelings called
pensioners.' Their names, he continued, 'disgraced the Civil List. They are the known pensioned
advocates of despotism.' Parl. Hist. xix. 118. It is curious that Boswell does not mention
this attack, and that Johnson a few months after it was made, speaking of himself and Wilkes,
said:--'The contest is now over.' Post, Sept 21, 1777.

[230] The next day he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'For my part, I begin to settle and keep company
with grave aldermen. I dined yesterday in the Poultry with Mr. Alderman Wilkes, and Mr. Alderman
Lee, and Counsellor Lee, his brother. There sat you the while, so sober, with your W----'s
and your H----'s, and my aunt and her turnspit; and when they are gone, you think by chance
on Johnson, what is he doing? What should he be doing? He is breaking jokes with Jack Wilkes
upon the Scots. Such, Madam, are the vicissitudes of things.' Piozzi Letters, i. 325.

[231] See ante, March 20, 1776.

[232] If he had said this on a former occasion to a lady, he said it also on a latter occasion
to a gentleman--Mr. Spottiswoode. Post, April 28, 1778. Moreover, Miss Burney records in 1778,
that when Johnson was telling about Bet Flint (post, May 8, 1781) and other strange characters
whom he had known, 'Mrs. Thrale said, "I wonder, Sir, you never went to see Mrs. Rudd among
the rest." "Why, Madam, I believe I should," said he, "if it was not for the newspapers; but
I am prevented many frolics that I should like very well, since I am become such a theme for
the papers."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 90.

[233] Pope, Essay on Man, ii. 2.

[234] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on May 14 (Tuesday):--'----goes away on Thursday, very well
satisfied with his journey. Some great men have promised to obtain him a place, and then a
fig for my father and his new wife.' Piozzi Letters, i. 324. He is writing no doubt of Boswell;
yet, as Lord Auchinleck had been married more than six years, it is odd his wife should be
called new. Boswell, a year earlier, wrote to Temple of his hopes from Lord Pembroke:--'How
happy should I be to get an independency by my own influence while my father is alive!' Letters
of Boswell, p. 182. Johnson, in a second letter to Mrs. Thrale, written two days after Boswell
left, says:--'B---- went away on Thursday night, with no great inclination to travel northward;
but who can contend with destiny? ... He carries with him two or three good resolutions; I
hope they will not mould upon the road.' Piozzi Letters, i. 333.

[235] 1 Corinthians, xiii. 5.

[236] This passage, which is found in Act iii, is not in the acting copy of Douglas.

[237] Malone was one of these gentlemen. See post, under June 30, 1784. Reynolds, after saying
that eagerness for victory often led Johnson into acts of rudeness, while 'he was not thus
strenuous for victory with his intimates in tete-a-tete conversations when there were no witnesses,'
adds:--'Were I to write the Life of Dr. Johnson I would labour this point, to separate his
conduct that proceeded from his passions, and what proceeded from his reason, from his natural
disposition seen in his quiet hours.' Taylor's Reynolds, ii. 462.

[238] These words must have been in the other copy. They are not in that which was preferred.
BOSWELL.

[239] On June 3 he wrote that he was suffering from 'a very serious and troublesome fit of
the gout. I enjoy all the dignity of lameness. I receive ladies and dismiss them sitting. Painful
pre-eminence.' Piozzi Letters, i. 337. 'Painful pre-eminence' comes from Addison's Cato, act
iii. sc. 5. Pope, in his Essay on Man, iv. 267, borrows the phrase:--

'Painful pre-eminence! yourself to view, Above life's weakness and its comforts too.'

It is humorously introduced into the Rolliad in the description of the Speaker:--

'There Cornewall sits, and oh! unhappy fate! Must sit for ever through the long debate. Painful
pre-eminence! he hears, 'tis true, Fox, North, and Burke, but hears Sir Joseph too.'

[240] Dean Stanley (Memorials of Westminster Abbey, p. 297) says:-- 'One expression at least
has passed from the inscription into the proverbial Latin of mankind--

"Nihil tetigit quod non ornavit."'

In a note he adds:--'Professor Conington calls my attention to the fact that, if this were
a genuine classical expression, it would be ornaret. The slight mistake proves that it is Johnson's
own.' The mistake, of course, is the Dean's and the Professor's, who did not take the trouble
to ascertain what Johnson had really written. If we may trust Cradock, Johnson here gave in
a Latin form what he had already said in English. 'When a bookseller ventured to say something
rather slightingly of Dr. Goldsmith, Johnson retorted:--"Sir, Goldsmith never touches any subject
but he adorns it." Once when I found the Doctor very low at his chambers I related this circumstance
to him, and it instantly proved a cordial.' Cradock's Memoirs, i. 231.

[241] According to Mr. Forster (Life of Goldsmith, i. 1), he was born on Nov. 10, 1728. There
is a passage in Goldsmith's Bee, No. 2, which leads me to think that he himself held Nov. 12
as his birth-day. He says; 'I shall be sixty-two the twelfth of next November.' Now, as The
Bee was published in October 1759, he would be, not sixty-two, but just half that number--thirty-one
on his next birth-day. It is scarcely likely that he selected the number and the date at random.

[242] Reynolds chose the spot in Westminster Abbey where the monument should stand. Northcote's
Reynolds, i. 326.

[243] For A. Chamier, see ante, i. 478, note 1; and post, April 9, 1778: for P. Metcalfe, post,
under Dec. 20, 1782. W. Vachell seems only known to fame as having signed this Round Robin,
and attended Sir Joshua's funeral. Who Tho. Franklin was I cannot learn. He certainly was not
Thomas Francklin, D.D., the Professor of Greek at Cambridge and translator of Sophocles and
Lucian, mentioned post, end of 1780. The Rev. Dr. Luard, the Registrar of that University,
has kindly compared for me six of his signatures ranging from 1739 to 1770. In each of these
the c is very distinct, while the writing is unlike the signature in the Round Robin.

[244] Horace Walpole wrote in Dec. of this year:--'The conversation of many courtiers was openly
in favour of arbitrary power. Lord Huntingdon and Dr. Barnard, who was promised an Irish Bishopric,
held such discourse publicly.' Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 91. I cannot, however,
but be of opinion, that it is not sufficiently discriminative. Applying to Goldsmith equally
the epithets of 'Poetae, Historici, Physici,' is surely not right; for as to his claim to the
last of those epithets, I have heard Johnson himself say, 'Goldsmith, Sir, will give us a very
fine book upon the subject; but if he can distinguish a cow from a horse, that, I believe,
may be the extent of his knowledge of natural history.' His book is indeed an excellent performance,
though in some instances he appears to have trusted too much to Buffon, who, with all his theoretical
ingenuity and extraordinary eloquence, I suspect had little actual information in the science
on which he wrote so admirably. For instance, he tells us that the cow sheds her horns every
two years; a most palpable errour, which Goldsmith has faithfully transferred into his book.
It is wonderful that Buffon, who lived so much in the country, at his noble seat, should have
fallen into such a blunder. I suppose he has confounded the cow with the deer. BOSWELL. Goldsmith
says:--'At three years old the cow sheds its horns and new ones arise in their place, which
continue as long as it lives.' Animated Nature, iii. 12. This statement remains in the second
edition. Johnson said that the epitaph on Sir J. Macdonald 'should have been in Latin, as everything
intended to be universal and permanent should be.' Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 5, 1773. He treated
the notion of an English inscription to Smollett 'with great contempt, saying, "an English
inscription would be a disgrace to Dr. Smollett."' Ib. Oct. 28, 1773.

[246] Beside this Latin Epitaph, Johnson honoured the memory of his friend Goldsmith with a
short one in Greek. See ante, July 5, 1774. BOSWELL.

[247] See ante, Oct. 24, 1775.

[248] Upon a settlement of our account of expences on a Tour to the Hebrides, there was a balance
due to me, which Dr. Johnson chose to discharge by sending books. BOSWELL.

[249] See post, under Nov. 29, 1777.

[250] Baretti told me that Johnson complained of my writing very long letters to him when I
was upon the continent; which was most certainly true; but it seems my friend did not remember
it. BOSWELL.

[251] See ante, iii. 27.

[252] See ante, i. 446, for Johnson's remedies against melancholy.

[253] It was not 'last year' but on June 22, 1772, that the negro, James Somerset--who had
been brought to England by his master, had escaped from him, had been seized, and confined
in irons on board a ship in The Thames that was bound for Jamaica, and had been brought on
a writ of Habeas Corpus before the Court of King's Bench was discharged by Lord Mansfield.
Howell's State Trials, xx. 79, and Lofft's Reports, 1772, p. 1. 'Lord Mansfield,' writes Lord
Campbell (Lives of the Chief Justices, ii. 418), 'first established the grand doctrine that
the air of England is too pure to be breathed by a slave.' According to Lord Campbell, Mansfield's
judgment thus ended:--'The air of England has long been too pure for a slave, and every man
is free who breathes it. Every man who comes into England is entitled to the protection of
English law, whatever oppression he may heretofore have suffered, and whatever may be the colour
of his skin:

'"Quamvis ille niger, quamvis tu candidus esses."

'Let the negro be discharged.'

Where Lord Campbell found this speech, that is to say if he did not put it together himself,
I cannot guess. Mansfield's judgment was very brief. He says in the conclusion:--'The only
question before us is, whether the cause on the return [to the writ of habeas corpus] is sufficient.
If it is, the negro must be remanded; if it is not, he must be discharged. Accordingly the
return states that the slave departed, and refused to serve; whereupon he was kept to be sold
abroad. So high an act of dominion must be recognised by the law of the country where it is
used. The power of a master over his slave has been extremely different in different countries.
The state of slavery is of such a nature that it is incapable of being introduced on any reasons,
moral or political.... It is so odious that nothing can be suffered to support it but positive
law. Whatever inconveniences therefore may follow from a decision, I cannot say this case is
allowed or approved by the law of England; and therefore the black must be discharged.' Lofft's
Reports, 1772, p. 19. 'The judgment of the court,' says Broom (Constitutional Law, 1885, p.
99), 'was delivered by Lord Mansfield, C.J., after some delay, and with evident reluctance.'
The passage about the air of England that Campbell puts into Mansfield's mouth is found in
Mr. Hargrave's argument on May 14, 1772, where he speaks of England as 'a soil whose air is
deemed too pure for slaves to breathe in.' Lofft's Reports, p. 2. Mr. Dunning replied:--'Let
me take notice, neither the air of England is too pure for a slave to breathe in, nor the laws
of England have rejected servitude.' Ib. p. 12. Serjeant Davy rejoined:--'It has been asserted,
and is now repeated by me, this air is too pure for a slave to breathe in. I trust I shall
not quit this court without certain conviction of the truth of that assertion.' Ib. p. 17.
Lord Mansfield said nothing about the air. The line from Virgil, with which Lord Campbell makes
Mansfield's speech end, was 'the happily chosen motto' to Maclaurin's published argument for
the negro; Joseph Knight, post, under Nov. 29, 1777.

[254] The son of Johnson's old friend, Mr. William Drummond. (See vol. ii. pp. 26-29.) He was
a young man of such distinguished merit, that he was nominated to one of the medical professorships
in the College of Edinburgh without solicitation, while he was at Naples. Having other views,
he did not accept of the honour, and soon afterwards died. BOSWELL.

[255] In the third and subsequent editions the date is wrongly given as the 16th.

[256] A Florentine nobleman, mentioned by Johnson in his Notes of his Tour in France [ante,
Oct. 18, 1775]. I had the pleasure of becoming acquainted with him in London, in the spring
of this year. BOSWELL. Mrs. Thrale wrote to Johnson from Bath on May 16:--'Count Manucci would
wait seven years to come with you; so do not disappoint the man, but bring him along with you.
His delight in your company is like Boniface's exultation when the squire speaks Latin; for
understand you he certainly cannot.' Piozzi Letters, i. 328. It was not the squire, but the
priest, Foigard, who by his Latin did Boniface good. The Beaux Strategem, act iii. sc. 2.

[257] Pr. and Med. p. 151.

[258] St. James, i. 17.

[259] See ante, ii. 175. Seven and even eight years later Paterson was still a student in need
of Johnson's recommendation. Post, June 2, 1783, and April 5, 1784.

[260] See ante, p. 58.

[261] Why his Lordship uses the epithet pleasantly, when speaking of a grave piece of reasoning,
I cannot conceive. But different men have different notions of pleasantry. I happened to sit
by a gentleman one evening at the Opera-house in London, who, at the moment when Medea appeared
to be in great agony at the thought of killing her children, turned to me with a smile, and
said, 'funny enough.' BOSWELL.

[262] Dr. Johnson afterwards told me, that he was of opinion that a clergyman had this right.
BOSWELL.

[263] Johnson, nearly three years earlier, had said of Granger:--'The dog is a Whig. I do not
like much to see a Whig in any dress; but I hate to see a Whig in a parson's gown.' Boswell's
Hebrides, Sept. 24, 1773.

[264] 'I did my utmost,' wrote Horace Walpole (Letters, v. 168), 'to dissuade Mr. Granger from
the dedication, and took especial pains to get my virtues left out of the question.'

[265]

'In moderation placing all my glory, While Tories call me Whig, and Whigs a Tory.'

Pope, Imitations of Horace, Bk. ii Sat. I. 1. 67.

[266] 'One of the dippers at Brighthelmstone, seeing Mr. Johnson swim in the year 1766, said:--"Why,
Sir, you must have been a stout-hearted gentleman forty years ago."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 113.
Johnson, in his verses entitled, In Rivum a Mola Stoana Lichfeldiae diffluentem (Works, i.
163), writes:--

'Errat adhuc vitreus per prata virentia rivus,
  Quo toties lavi membra tenella puer;
Hic delusa rudi frustrabar brachia motu,
  Dum docuit blanda voce natare pater.'

[267] For this and Dr. Johnson's other letters to Mr. Levett, I am indebted to my old acquaintance
Mr. Nathaniel Thomas, whose worth and ingenuity have been long known to a respectable, though
not a wide circle; and whose collection of medals would do credit to persons of greater opulence.
BOSWELL.

[268] Johnson's letters to Mrs. Thrale shew the difference between modern Brighton and the
Brighthelmstone of his days. Thus he writes:-- 'Ashbourne, Sept. 27, 1777. I know not when
I shall write again, now you are going to the world's end [i.e. Brighton]. Extra anni solisque
vias, where the post will be a long time in reaching you. I shall, notwithstanding all distance,
continue to think on you.' Piozzi Letters, i. 387. 'Oct. 6, 1777. Methinks you are now a great
way off; and if I come, I have a great way to come to you; and then the sea is so cold, and
the rooms are so dull; yet I do love to hear the sea roar and my mistress talk--For when she
talks, ye gods! how she will talk. I wish I were with you, but we are now near half the length
of England asunder. It is frightful to think how much time must pass between writing this letter
and receiving an answer, if any answer were necessary.' Ib. ii. 2.

[269] Boswell wrote to Temple on Nov. 3, 1780:--'I could not help smiling at the expostulation
which you suggest to me to try with my father. It would do admirably with some fathers; but
it would make mine much worse, for he cannot bear that his son should talk with him as a man.
I can only lament his unmelting coldness to my wife and children, for I fear it is hopeless
to think of his ever being more affectionate towards them. Yet it must be acknowledged that
his paying L1000 of my debt some years ago was a large bounty. He allows me L300 a year.' Letters
of Boswell, p. 255.

[270] See ante, Aug. 27, 1775, note.

[271] See ante, p. 48, note 4.

[272] 'He said to me often that the time he spent in this Tour was the pleasantest part of
his life, and asked me if I would lose the recollection of it for five hundred pounds.' Boswell's
Hebrides, under Nov. 22, 1773.

[273] Chap. viii. 10. A translation of this work is in Bibliotheca Pastorum, ed. J. Ruskin, vol. i.

[274] 'The chief cause of my deficiency has been a life immethodical and unsettled, which breaks
all purposes, confounds and suppresses memory, and perhaps leaves too much leisure to imagination.'
Pr. and Med. p. 136.

[275] Johnson wrote to Boswell (ante, June 12, 1774):--'I have stipulated twenty-five for you
to give in your own name.' The book was published early in 1775.

[277] See ante, Jan. 19 and May 6, 1775.

[278] See ante, p. 86.

[279] See ante, May 27, 1775.

[280] Macquarry was the chief of Ulva's Isle. 'He told us,' writes Boswell, 'his family had
possessed Ulva for nine hundred years; but I was distressed to hear that it was soon to be
sold for payment of his debts.' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct 16, 1773.

[281] See ante, March 24, 1776.

[282] Mrs. Thrale gives a long but scarcely credible account of her quarrel with Baretti. It
is very unlikely that he used to say to her eldest daughter 'that, if her mother died in a
lying-in which happened while he lived here, he hoped Mr. Thrale would marry Miss Whitbred,
who would be a pretty companion for her, and not tyrannical and overbearing like me.' Hayward's
Piozzi, ii. 336. No doubt in 1788 he attacked her brutally (see ante, p. 49). 'I could not
have suspected him,' wrote Miss Burney, 'of a bitterness of invective so cruel, so ferocious.'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, iv. 185. The attack was provoked. Mrs. Piozzi, in January, 1788, published
one of Johnson's letters, in which he wrote--at all events she says he wrote:--'Poor B----i!
do not quarrel with him; to neglect him a little will be sufficient. He means only to be frank,
and manly, and independent, and perhaps, as you say, a little wise. To be frank he thinks is
to be cynical, and to be independent is to be rude. Forgive him, dearest lady, the rather because
of his misbehaviour I am afraid he learnt part of me. I hope to set him hereafter a better
example.' Piozzi Letters, i. 277. Malone, in 1789, speaks of 'the roughness for which Baretti
was formerly distinguished.' Prior's Malone, p. 391. Mrs. Thrale thus describes his departure:
'My daughter kept on telling me that Mr. Baretti was grown very old and very cross, would not
look at her exercises, but said he would leave this house soon, for it was no better than Pandaemonium.
The next day he packed up his cloke-bag, which he had not done for three years, and sent it
to town; and while we were wondering what he would say about it at breakfast, he was walking
to London himself, without taking leave of any one person, except it may be the girl, who owns
they had much talk, in the course of which he expressed great aversion to me and even to her,
who, [sic] he said, he once thought well of.' Hayward's Piozzi, ii. 339. Baretti, in the Eur.
Mag. xiii. 398, told his story. He said:--'Madam took it into her head to give herself airs,
and treat me with some coldness and superciliousness. I did not hesitate to set down at breakfast
my dish of tea not half drank, go for my hat and stick that lay in the corner of the room,
turn my back to the house insalutato hospite, and walk away to London without uttering a syllable.'
In a marginal note on Piozzi Letters, i. 338, he says he left Streatham on June 4, 1776. 'I
had,' he writes, 'by that time been in a manner one of the family during six years and a-half.
Johnson had made me hope that Thrale would at last give me an annuity for my pains, but, never
receiving a shilling from him or from her, I grew tired at last, and on some provocation from
her left them abruptly.' It should seem that he afterwards made it up with them, for in a note
on vol. ii. p. 191, he says of the day of Mr. Thrale's death, 'Johnson and I, and many other
friends, were to dine with him that day.' The rest of the note, at all events, is inaccurate,
for he says that 'Mrs. Thrale imparted to Johnson the news [of her husband's death],' whereas
Johnson saw him die.

[283] Mrs. Piozzi says that this money was given to Baretti as a consolation for the loss of
the Italian tour (ante, iii. 6). Hayward's Piozzi, ii. 337.

[284] The Duke of York was present when Foote had the accident by which he lost his leg (ante,
ii. 95). Moved by compassion, he obtained for him from the King a royal patent for performances
at the Haymarket from May 14 to Sept. 14 in every year. He played but thrice after his retirement.
Forster's Essays, ii. 400, 435.

[285] Strahan showed greater sagacity about Gibbon's Decline and Fall, which had been declined
by Elmsly. 'So moderate were our hopes,' writes Gibbon (Misc.

[286] See post, Sept. 19, 1777, and April 20, 1781.

[287] Johnson, I believe, at this time suffered less than usual from despondency. See ante,
iii. 25, note 1. The passage in which these words are found applies to one day only. It is
as follows:--'March 28. This day is Good Friday. It is likewise the day on which my poor Tetty
was taken from me. My thoughts were disturbed in bed. I remembered that it was my wife's dying
day, and begged pardon for all our sins, and commended her; but resolved to mix little of my
own sorrows or cares with the great solemnity. Having taken only tea without milk I went to
church; had time before service to commend my wife, and wished to join quietly in the service,
but I did not hear well, and my mind grew unsettled and perplexed. Having rested ill in the
night I slumbered at the sermon, which, I think, I could not as I sat perfectly hear.... At
night I had some ease. L.D. [Laus Deo] I had prayed for pardon and peace.' Pr. and Med. p.
153. Hawkins, however (Life, p. 532), says, perhaps with considerable exaggeration, that at
this time, 'he sunk into indolence, till his faculties seemed to be impaired; deafness grew
upon him; long intervals of mental absence interrupted his conversation, and it was difficult
to engage his attention to any subject. His friends concluded that his lamp was emitting its
last rays, but the lapse of a short period gave them ample proofs to the contrary.' The proofs
were The Lives of the Poets. Johnson himself says of this time:--'Days and months pass in a
dream; and I am afraid that my memory grows less tenacious, and my observation less attentive.'
Pr. and Med. 160. See ante, i. 65, and post, Sept. 20, 1777.

[290] Pr. and Med. p. 155. BOSWELL.

[291] Pr. and Med. p. 158. BOSWELL.

[292] He continues:--'I passed the afternoon with such calm gladness of mind as it is very
long since I felt before. I passed the night in such sweet uninterrupted sleep as I have not
known since I slept at Fort Augustus.' See post, Nov. 21, 1778, where in a letter to Boswell
he says:--'The best night that I have had these twenty years was at Fort Augustus.' In 1767
he mentions (Pr. and Med. p. 73) 'a sudden relief he once had by a good night's rest in Fetter
Lane,' where he had lived many years before. His good nights must have been rare indeed.

[293] Bishop Percy says that he handed over to Johnson various memoranda which he had received
from 'Goldsmith's brother and others of his family, to afford materials for a Life of Goldsmith,
which Johnson was to write and publish for their benefit. But he utterly forgot them and the
subject.' Prior successfully defends Johnson against the charge that he did not include Goldsmith's
Life among the Lives of the Poets. 'The copy-right of She Stoops to Conquer was the property
of Carnan the bookseller (surviving partner of F. Newbery); and Carnan being "a most impracticable
man and at variance with all his brethren," in the words of Malone to the Bishop, he refused
his assent, and the project for the time fell to the ground.' But Percy clearly implies that
it was a separate work and not one of the Lives that Johnson had undertaken. See Prior's Goldsmith,
Preface, p. x. Malone, in a note on Boswell's letter of July 9, 1777, says:--'I collected some
materials for a Life of Goldsmith, by Johnson's desire.' He goes on to mention the quarrel
with Carnan. It should seem then that Johnson was gathering materials for Goldsmith's Life
before the Lives of the Poets were projected; that later on he intended to include it in that
series, but being thwarted by Carnan that he did nothing.

[294] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773.

[295] 'I have often desired him not to call me Goldy.' Ib. Oct. 14.

[296] 'The Duke of Argyle was obliging enough to mount Dr. Johnson on a stately steed from
his grace's stable. My friend was highly pleased, and Joseph [Boswell's Bohemian servant] said,
"He now looks like a bishop."' Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 26.

[297] See ante, ii. 196.

[298] Even Burke falls into the vulgarism of 'mutual friend.' See his Correspondence, i. 196,
ii. 251. Goldsmith also writes of 'mutual acquaintance.' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 48.

[299] He means to imply, I suppose, that Johnson was the father of plantations. See ante, under
Feb. 7, 1775. note.

[300] For a character of this very amiable man, see Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, 3rd
edit. p. 36. [Aug. 17.] BOSWELL.

[301] By the then course of the post, my long letter of the 14th had not yet reached him. BOSWELL.

[302] History of Philip the Second. BOSWELL.

[303] See ante, Jan. 21, 1775.

[304] See ante, iii. 48.

[305] He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Jan. 15, 1777, that he had had about twelve ounces of blood
taken, and then about ten more, and that another bleeding was to follow. 'Yet I do not make
it a matter of much form. I was to-day at Mrs. Gardiner's. When I have bled to-morrow, I will
not give up Langton nor Paradise. But I beg that you will fetch me away on Friday. I do not
know but clearer air may do me good; but whether the air be clear or dark, let me come to you.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 344. See post, Sept. 16, 1777, note.

[306] See ante, i. 411, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773.

[307] Johnson tried in vain to buy this book at Aberdeen. Ib. Aug. 23.

[308] See ante, May 12, 1775.

[309] No doubt her Miscellanies. Ante, ii. 25.

[310] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22.

[311] Johnson is the most common English formation of the Sirname from John; Johnston the Scotch.
My illustrious friend observed that many North Britons pronounced his name in their own way.
BOSWELL. Boswell (Hebrides, Oct. 21, 1773) tells of one Lochbuy who, 'being told that Dr. Johnson
did not hear well, bawled out to him, "Are you of the Johnstons of Glencro, or of Ardnamurchan?"'

[312] See post, under Dec. 24, 1783.

[313] Johnson's old amanuensis. Ante, i. 187. Johnson described him as 'a man of great learning.'
Croker's Boswell, p. 654.

[314] On account of their differing from him as to religion and politicks. BOSWELL. See post,
April 13, 1778. Mr. Croker says that 'the Club had, as its records show, for many of his latter
years very little of his company.'

[315] See ante, i. 225 note 2, July 4, 1774, and March 20, 1776.

[316] Boswell was no reader. 'I don't believe,' Johnson once said to him, 'you have borrowed
from Waller. I wish you would enable yourself to borrow more.' Ante, April 16, 1775.

[317] Chesterfield's Letters to his Son were published in 1774, and his Miscellaneous Works,
together with Memoirs and Letters to his Friends, early in 1777.

[318] 'Whatso it is, the Danaan folk, yea gift-bearing I fear.' Morris, AEneids, ii. 49.

[319] He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on March 19, 1777:--'You are all young, and gay, and easy; but
I have miserable nights, and know not how to make them better; but I shift pretty well a-days,
and so have at you all at Dr. Burney's to-morrow.' Piozzi Letters, i. 345.

[320] A twelfth was born next year. See post, July 3, 1778.

[321] It was March 29.

[322] Pr. and Med. p. 155. BOSWELL

[323] See ante, i. 341, note 3.

[324] See ante, i. 439.

[326] See post, beginning of 1781.

[327] See ante, ii. 272, note 2.

[328] Mr. Joseph Cooper Walker, of the Treasury, Dublin, who obligingly communicated to me
this and a former letter from Dr. Johnson to the same gentleman (for which see vol. i. p. 321),
writes to me as follows: --'Perhaps it would gratify you to have some account of Mr. O'Connor.
He is an amiable, learned, venerable old gentleman, of an independent fortune, who lives at
Belanagar, in the county of Roscommon; he is an admired writer, and Member of the Irish Academy.--The
above Letter is alluded to in the Preface to the 2nd edit, of his Dissert, p. 3.'--Mr. O'Connor
afterwards died at the age of eighty-two. See a well-drawn character of him in the Gent. Mag.
for August 1791. BOSWELL.

[329] Mr. Croker shows good reason for believing that in the original letter this parenthesis
stood:--'if such there were.'

[330] See ante, i. 292.

[331] 'Johnson had not heard of Pearce's Sermons, which I wondered at, considering that he
wrote all the Life published by the Chaplain Derby, except what his Lordship wrote himself.'
Letters of Boswell, p. 242. See ante, March 20, 1776.

[332] Boswell, it seems, is here quoting himself. See his Hebrides, 3rd edit. p. 201 (Sept.
13, 1773), where, however, he lays the emphasis differently, writing 'fervour of loyalty.'

[333] 'An old acquaintance' of the Bishop says that 'he struggled hard ten years ago to resign
his Bishopric and the Deanery of Westminster, in which our gracious King was willing to gratify
him; but upon a consultation of the Bishops they thought it could not be done with propriety;
yet he was permitted to resign the Deanery.' Gent. Mag. 1775, p. 421.

[334] 'This person, it is said, was a stay-maker, but being a man of wit and parts he betook
himself to study, and at a time when the discipline of the inns of court was scandalously lax,
got himself called to the Bar, and practised at the quarter-sessions under me, but with little
success. He became the conductor of a paper called The Public Ledger and a writer for the stage,
in which he met with some encouragement, till it was insinuated that he was a pensioner of
the minister, and therefore a fit object of patriotic vengeance.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 518.
See ante, ii. 48 note, and post, 1784, in Mr. Nichols's account of Johnson's last days.

[335] 'This address had the desired effect. The play was well received.' Murphy's Garrick,
p. 302. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale from Lichfield, 'Lucy [his step-daughter] thinks nothing
of my prologue for Kelly, and says she has always disowned it.' Piozzi Letters, i. 352.

[336] It was composed at a time when Savage was generally without lodging, and often without
meat. Much of it was written with pen and ink that were borrowed, on paper that had been picked
up in the streets. The unhappy poet 'was obliged to submit himself wholly to the players, and
admit with whatever reluctance the emendations of Mr. Cibber, which he always considered as
the disgrace of his performance.' When it was brought out, he himself took the part of Overbury.
'He was so much ashamed of having been reduced to appear as a player, that he always blotted
out his name from the list when a copy of his tragedy was to be shown to his friends.' Johnson's
Works, viii. 110-112.

[337] It was not at Drury-lane, but at Covent Garden theatre, that it was acted. MALONE.

[338] Part First, Chap 4. BOSWELL. See ante ii. 225.

[339] Life of Richard Savage, by Dr. Johnson. BOSWELL.

[340] See ante, i. 387, and post, May 17, 1783.

[341] Sheridan joined the Literary Club in March, 1777. The Rivals and The Duenna were brought
out in 1775; The Trip to Scarborough on Feb. 24, 1777, and The School for Scandal in the following
May. Moore (Life of Sheridan, i. 168), speaking of The Duenna, says, 'The run of this opera
has, I believe, no parallel in the annals of the drama. Sixty-three nights was the career of
The Beggar's Opera; but The Duenna was acted no less than seventy-five times during the season.'
The Trip to Scarborough was a failure. Johnson, therefore, doubtless referred to The Rivals
and The Duenna.

[342] The date is wrongly given. Boswell says that he wrote again on June 23 (post, p. 120),
and Johnson's letter of June 28 is in answer to both letters. The right date is perhaps June 9.

[343] See Boswell's Hebrides, under Nov. 11, 1773.

[344] See pp. 29, 30, of this volume. BOSWELL.

[345] Johnson, describing 'the fond intimacy' of Quin and Thomson, says (Works, viii. 374):--'The
commencement of this benevolence is very honourable to Quin, who is reported to have delivered
Thomson, then known to him only for his genius, from an arrest by a very considerable present;
and its continuance is honourable to both, for friendship is not always the sequel of obligation.'

[346] See ante, ii. 63, and post, June 18, 1778.

[347] Formerly Sub-preceptor to his present Majesty, and afterwards a Commissioner of Excise.
MALONE.

[348] The physician and poet. He died in 1779.

[349] Boswell nine years earlier (ante, ii. 63) had heard Johnson accuse Thomson of gross sensuality.

[350] 'Savage, who lived much with Thomson, once told me he heard a lady remarking that she
could gather from his works three parts of his character, that he was a great lover, a great
swimmer, and rigorously abstinent; but, said Savage, he knows not any love but that of the
sex; he was perhaps never in cold water in his life; and he indulges himself in all the luxury
that comes within his reach.' Johnson's Works, viii. 377.

[351] Dr. Johnson was not the editor of this Collection of The English Poets; he merely furnished
the biographical prefaces. MALONE. See post, Sept. 14, 1777.

[352] See ante, under April 18, 1775.

[353] One letter he seems to have sent to him from this spot. See ante, ii. 3, note 1.

[354] Dr. Johnson had himself talked of our seeing Carlisle together. High was a favourite
word of his to denote a person of rank. He said to me, 'Sir, I believe we may at the house
of a Roman Catholick lady in Cumberland; a high lady, Sir.' I afterwards discovered he meant
Mrs. Strickland, sister of Charles Townley, Esq., whose very noble collection of pictures is
not more to be admired, than his extraordinary and polite readiness in shewing it, which I
and several of my friends have agreeably experienced. They who are possessed of valuable stores
of gratification to persons of taste, should exercise their benevolence in imparting the pleasure.
Grateful acknowledgments are due to Welbore Ellis Agar, Esq., for the liberal access which
he is pleased to allow to his exquisite collection of pictures. BOSWELL.

[355] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 11, 1773.

[356] It is no doubt, on account of its brevity that Boswell in speaking of it writes:--'What
is called The Life.'

[357] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct, 29, 1773.

[358] See ante, under Feb. 7, 1775.

[359] See post, p. 139.

[360] See ante, i. 494.

[361] From Prior's imitation of Gualterus Danistonus ad Amicos; the poem mentioned by Boswell
in his Hebrides, Aug. 18, 1773.

[362] Copy is manuscript for printing.

[363] Hawkins (Life, p. 521) says that the jury did not at the trial recommend Dodd to mercy.
To one of the petitions 'Mrs. Dodd first got the hands of the jury that found the bill against
her husband, and after that, as it is supposed, of the jury that tried him.' Ib. p. 527. He
says that the public were at first very little interested in his fate, 'but by various artifices,
and particularly the insertion of his name in public papers, with such palliatives as he and
his friends could invent, never with the epithet of unfortunate, they were betrayed into such
an enthusiastic commiseration of his case as would have led a stranger to believe that himself
had been no accessory to his distresses, but that they were the inflictions of Providence.'
Ib. p. 520. Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor on May 19:--'Poor Dodd was sentenced last week....
I am afraid he will suffer. The clergy seem not to be his friends. The populace, that was extremely
clamorous against him, begins to pity him. Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 423.

[364] Horace Walpole says 'the criminal was raised to the dignity of a confessor in the eyes
of the people--but an inexorable judge had already pronounced his doom. Lord Mansfield, who
never felt pity, and never relented unless terrified, had indecently declared for execution
even before the judges had given their opinion. An incident that seemed favourable weighed
down the vigorous [qu. rigorous] scale. The Common Council had presented a petition for mercy
to the king. Lord Mansfield, who hated the popular party as much as he loved severity, was
not likely to be moved by such intercessors. At Court it grew the language that the king must
discountenance such interposition.' Walpole adds that 'as an attempt to rescue Dodd might be
apprehended, two thousand men were ordered to be reviewed in Hyde Park during the execution.'
Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 125.

[365] Johnson, in the 'Observations inserted in the newspapers' (post, p. 142), said 'that
though the people cannot judge of the administration of justice so well as their governors,
yet their voice has always been regarded. That if the people now commit an error, their error
is on the part of mercy; and that perhaps history cannot shew a time in which the life of a
criminal, guilty of nothing above fraud, was refused to the cry of nations, to the joint supplication
of three and twenty thousand petitioners.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 528. Johnson's earnestness
as a petitioner contrasts with the scornful way in which he had spoken of petitions. 'There
must be no yielding to encourage this,' the minister might have answered in his own words.
Ante, ii. 90.

[366] The king signs no sentences or death warrants; but out of respect to the Royal perogative
of mercy, expressed by the old adage, 'The King's face gives grace,' the cases of criminals
convicted in London, where the king is supposed to be resident, were reported to him by the
recorder, that his Majesty might have an option of pardoning. Hence it was seriously doubted
whether a recorder's report need or, indeed, could be made at Windsor. All his Majesty did
on these occasions was, to express verbally his assent or dissent to or from the execution
of the sentence; and, though the King was on such occasions attended by his Ministers and the
great legal Privy Councillors, the business was not technically a council business, but the
individual act of the King. On the accession of Queen Victoria, the nature of some cases that
it might be necessary to report to her Majesty occasioned the abrogation of a practice which
was certainly so far unreasonable that it made a difference between London and all the rest
of the kingdom. CROKER. 'I was exceedingly shocked,' said Lord Eldon, 'the first time I attended
to hear the Recorder's report, at the careless manner in which, as it appeared to me, it was
conducted. We were called upon to decide on sentences affecting no less than the lives of men,
and yet there was nothing laid before us to enable us to judge whether there had or had not
been any extenuating circumstances; it was merely a recapitulation of the judge's opinion and
the sentence. I resolved that I never would attend another report, without having read and
duly considered the whole of the evidence of each case, and I never did.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 398.

[367] Under-Secretary of State and a member of the Literary Club. Ante, i. 478.

[368] Johnson does not here let Boswell know that he had written this address (post, p. 141).
Wesley, two days before Dodd's execution, records (Journal, iv. 99):--'I saw Dr. Dodd for the
last time. He was in exactly such a temper as I wished. He never at any time expressed the
least murmuring or resentment at any one; but entirely and calmly gave himself up to the will
of God. Such a prisoner I scarce ever saw before; much less such a condemned malefactor. I
should think none could converse with him without acknowledging that God is with him.' In earlier
years Wesley was more than once refused admittance to a man under sentence of death who was
'earnestly desirous' to speak with him. Wesley's Journal, ed. 1827, i. 255, 292, 378.

[369] Between the Methodists and the Moravians there was no good-will. In 1749 the Moravians
published a declaration that 'whosoever reckons that those persons in England who are usually
called Moravians, and those who are called Methodists, are the same, he is mistaken.' Thereupon
Wesley recorded in his Journal, ii. l20:--'The Methodists, so called, heartily thank Brother
Louis for his Declaration; as they count it no honour to be in any connexion either with him
or his Brethren.'

[370] Since they have been so much honoured by Dr. Johnson I shall here insert them:

'TO MR. SAMUEL JOHNSON.

'MY EVER DEAR AND MUCH-RESPECTED SIR,

'You know my solemn enthusiasm of mind. You love me for it, and I respect myself for it, because
in so far I resemble Mr. Johnson. You will be agreeably surprized when you learn the reason
of my writing this letter. I am at Wittemberg in Saxony. I am in the old church where the Reformation
was first preached, and where some of the reformers lie interred. I cannot resist the serious
pleasure of writing to Mr. Johnson from the Tomb of Melancthon. My paper rests upon the gravestone
of that great and good man, who was undoubtedly the worthiest of all the reformers. He wished
to reform abuses which had been introduced into the Church; but had no private resentment to
gratify. So mild was he, that when his aged mother consulted him with anxiety on the perplexing
disputes of the times, he advised her "to keep to the old religion." At this tomb, then, my
ever dear and respected friend! I vow to thee an eternal attachment. It shall be my study to
do what I can to render your life happy: and, if you die before me, I shall endeavour to do
honour to your memory; and, elevated by the remembrance of you, persist in noble piety. May
GOD, the Father of all beings, ever bless you! and may you continue to love,

'Your most affectionate friend, and devoted servant, 'JAMES BOSWELL.' 'Sunday, Sept. 30, 1764.'

'To DR. SAMUEL JOHNSON. 'Wilton-house, April 22, 1775. 'My DEAR SIR,

'Every scene of my life confirms the truth of what you have told me, "there is no certain happiness
in this state of being."--I am here, amidst all that you know is at Lord Pembroke's; and yet
I am weary and gloomy. I am just setting out for the house of an old friend in Devonshire,
and shall not get back to London for a week yet. You said to me last Good-Friday, with a cordiality
that warmed my heart, that if I came to settle in London, we should have a day fixed every
week, to meet by ourselves and talk freely. To be thought worthy of such a privilege cannot
but exalt me. During my present absence from you, while, notwithstanding the gaiety which you
allow me to possess, I am darkened by temporary clouds, I beg to have a few lines from you;
a few lines merely of kindness, as--a viaticum till I see you again. In your Vanity of Human
Wishes, and in Parnell's Contentment, I find the only sure means of enjoying happiness; or,
at least, the hopes of happiness. I ever am, with reverence and affection,

'Most faithfully yours,

'JAMES BOSWELL.'

[371] William Seward, Esq., F.R.S., editor of Anecdotes of some distinguished persons, etc.,
in four volumes, 8vo., well known to a numerous and valuable acquaintance for his literature,
love of the fine arts, and social virtues. I am indebted to him for several communications
concerning Johnson. BOSWELL. Miss Burney frequently mentions him as visiting the Thrales. 'Few
people do him justice,' said Mrs. Thrale to her, 'because as Dr. Johnson calls him, he is an
abrupt young man; but he has excellent qualities, and an excellent understanding.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 141. Miss Burney, in one of her letters, says:--'Mr. Seward, who seems to be quite
at home among them, appears to be a penetrating, polite, and agreeable young man. Mrs. Thrale
says of him, that he does good to everybody, but speaks well of nobody.' Memoirs of Dr. Burney,
ii. 89. He must not be confounded with the Rev. Mr. Seward of Lichfield.

[372] See post, under date of June 18, 1778.

[373] In the list of deaths in the Gent. Mag. for 1779, p. 103, we find, 'Feb. 8. Isaac de
Groot, great-grandson to the learned Grotius. He had long been supported by private donations,
and at length was provided for in the Charterhouse, where he died.'

[374] The preceding letter. BOSWELL.

[375] This letter was addressed not to a Mr. Dilly, but to Mr. W. Sharp, Junior. See Gent.
Mag. 1787, p. 99. CROKER.

[376] See ante, i. 312.

[377] See ante, p. 101.

[378] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 16.

[379] See ante, p. 86, and post, under Nov. 29, 1777.

[380] Johnson gives both epocha and epoch in his Dictionary.

[381] Langton. See ante, p. 48, and post, Sept. 22, 1777.

[382] This very just remark I hope will be constantly held in remembrance by parents, who are
in general too apt to indulge their own fond feelings for their children at the expence of
their friends. The common custom of introducing them after dinner is highly injudicious. It
is agreeable enough that they should appear at any other time; but they should not be suffered
to poison the moments of festivity by attracting the attention of the company, and in a manner
compelling them from politeness to say what they do not think. BOSWELL. See ante, p. 28.

[383] Gibbon wrote to Garrick from Paris on Aug. 14:--'At this time of year the society of
the Turk's-head can no longer be addressed as a corporate body, and most of the individual
members are probably dispersed: Adam Smith in Scotland; Burke in the shades of Beaconsfield;
Fox, the Lord or the devil knows where, etc. Be so good as to salute in my name those friends
who may fall in your way. Assure Sir Joshua, in particular, that I have not lost my relish
for manly conversation and the society of the brown table.' Garrick Corres. ii. 256. I believe
that in Gibbon's published letters no mention is found of Johnson.

[384] See ante, ii. 159, and post, April 4, 1778. Of his greatness at the Bar Lord Eldon has
left the following anecdote;--'Mr. Dunning, being in very great business, was asked how he
contrived to get through it all. He said, "I do one third of it, another third does itself,
and the remaining third continues undone."' Twiss's Eldon, i. 327.

[385] It is not easy to detect Johnson in anything that comes even near an inaccuracy. Let
me quote, therefore, a passage from one of his letters which shews that when he wrote to Mrs.
Boswell he had not, as he seems to imply, eaten any of the marmalade:--'Aug. 4, 1777. I believe
it was after I left your house that I received a pot of orange marmalade from Mrs. Boswell.
We have now, I hope, made it up. I have not opened my pot.' Piozzi Letters, i. 350.

[386] See ante, March 19, 1776.

[387] What it was that had occured is shewn by Johnson's letter to Mrs. Thrale on Aug. 4:--'Boswell's
project is disconcerted by a visit from a relation of Yorkshire, whom he mentions as the head
of his clan [see ante, ii. 169, note 2]. Boszy, you know, make a huge bustle about all his
own motions and all mine. I have inclosed a letter to pacify him, and reconcile him to the
uncertainties of human life.' Piozzi Letters, i. 350.

[388] When she was about four months old, Boswell declared that she should have five hundred
pounds of additional fortune, on account of her fondness for Dr. Johnson. See Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 15, 1773. She died, says Malone, of a consumption, four months after her father.

[389] See ante, March 23, 1776.

[390] By an odd mistake, in the first three editions we find a reading in this line to which
Dr. Johnson would by no means have subscribed, wine having been substituted for time. That
error probably was a mistake in the transcript of Johnson's original letter. The other deviation
in the beginning of the line (virtue instead of nature) must be attributed to his memory having
deceived him. The verse quoted is the concluding line of a sonnet of Sidney's:--

'Who doth desire that chast his wife should bee,
  First be he true, for truth doth truth deserve;
Then be he such, as she his worth may see,
  And, alwaies one, credit with her preserve:
Not toying kynd nor causelessly unkynd,
  Nor stirring thoughts, nor yet denying right,
Nor spying faults, nor in plaine errors blind,
  Never hard hand, nor ever rayns (reins) too light;
As far from want, as far from vaine expence,
  Th' one doth enforce, the t'other doth entice:
Allow good companie, but drive from thence
  All filthie mouths that glorie in their vice:
This done, thou hast no more but leave the rest
  To nature, fortune, time, and woman's breast.'

MALONE.

[391] 2 Corinthians, iv. 17.

[392] Boswell says (ante, i. 342):--'I am not satisfied if a year passes without my having
read Rasselas through.'

[393] It appears that Johnson, now in his sixty-eighth year, was seriously inclined to realise
the project of our going up the Baltick, which I had started when we were in the Isle of Sky
[Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 16]; for he thus writes to Mrs. Thrale; Letters, vol. i. p. 366:--

'Ashbourne, Sept. 13, 1777.

'BOSWELL, I believe, is coming. I am sorry now that I did not insist on our executing that
scheme. Besides the other objects of curiosity and observation, to have seen my illustrious
friend received, as he probably would have been, by a Prince so eminently distinguished for
his variety of talents and acquisitions as the late King of Sweden; and by the Empress of Russia,
whose extraordinary abilities, information, and magnanimity, astonish the world, would have
afforded a noble subject for contemplation and record. This reflection may possibly be thought
too visionary by the more sedate and cold-blooded part of my readers; yet I own, I frequently
indulge it with an earnest, unavailing regret. BOSWELL. In The Spectator, No. 436, Hockley
in the Hole is described as 'a place of no small renown for the gallantry of the lower order
of Britons.' Fielding mentions it in Jonathan Wild, bk. i. ch. 2:-- 'Jonathan married Elizabeth,
daughter of Scragg Hollow, of Hockley in the Hole, Esq., and by her had Jonathan, who is the
illustrious subject of these memoirs.' In The Beggar's Opera, act i. Mrs. Peachum says to Filch:
'You should go to Hockley in the Hole, and to Marylebone, child, to learn valour. These are
the schools that have bred so many brave men.' Hockley in the Hole was in Clerkenwell. To the
'King of Sweden' late was added in the second edition; Gustavus III having been assassinated
in March 1792. The story is somewhere told that George III, on hearing the news, cried out,
'What, what, what! Shot, shot, shot!' The Empress of Russia was Catherine II.

[394] It so happened. The letter was forwarded to my house at Edinburgh. BOSWELL. Arthur Young
(Tour through the North of England, iv. 431-5) describes, in 1768, some of the roads along
which Boswell was to travel nine years later. 'I would advise all travellers to consider the
country between Newcastle-under-Line and Preston as sea, and as soon think of driving into
the ocean as venturing into such detestable roads. I am told the Derby way to Manchester is
good, but further is not penetrable.' The road from Wigan to Preston he calls 'infernal,' and
'cautions all travellers, who may accidentally purpose to travel this terrible country, to
avoid it as they would the devil; for a thousand to one they break their necks or their limbs.
They will here meet with ruts which I actually measured four feet deep, and floating with mud
only from a wet summer; what therefore must it be after a winter?'

[395] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Sept. 15, 1777:--'Last night came Boswell. I am glad
that he is come. He seems to be very brisk and lively, and laughs a little at ---- [no doubt
Taylor].' Piozzi Letters, i. 368. On the 18th he wrote:--'Boswell is with us in good humour,
and plays his part with his usual vivacity.' On this Baretti noted in his copy:--'That is,
he makes more noise than anybody in company, talking and laughing loud.' On p. 216 in vol.
i. he noted:--'Boswell is not quite right-headed in my humble opinion.'

[396] In the Gent. Mag. for 1777, p. 458, it is described as a 'violent shock.'

[397] 'Grief has its time' he once said (post, June 2, 1781). 'Grief is a species of idleness,'
he wrote to Mrs. Thrale (Piozzi Letters, i. 77). He constantly taught that it is a duty not
to allow the mind to prey on itself. 'Gaiety is a duty when health requires it' (Croker's Boswell,
p. 529). 'Encourage yourself in bustle, and variety, and cheerfulness,' he wrote to Mrs. Thrale
ten weeks after the death of her only surviving son (Piozzi Letters, i. 341). 'Even to think
in the most reasonable manner,' he said at another time, 'is for the present not useful as
not to think.' Ib i. 202. When Mr. Thrale died, he wrote to his widow:--'I think business the
best remedy for grief, as soon as it can be admitted.' Ib. ii 197. To Dr. Taylor Johnson wrote:--'Sadness
only multiplies self.' Notes and Queries, 6th S., v. 461.

[398] 'There is no wisdom in useless and hopeless sorrow; but there is something in it so like
virtue, that he who is wholly without it cannot be loved, nor will by me at least be thought
worthy of esteem.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 198. Against this Baretti has written in the margin:--
'Johnson never grieved much for anything. His trade was wisdom.' See ante, ii. 94.

[399] See ante, iii 19. Mr. Croker gives a reference to p. 136 of his edition. Turning to it
we find an account of Johnson, who rode upon three horses. It would seem from this that, because
John=Jack, therefore Johnson=Jackson.

[400] Mr. Croker remarks on this:--'Johnson evidently thought, either that Ireland is generally
mountainous, or that Mr. Burke came from a part which was: but he was mistaken.' The allusion
may well be, not to Burke as a native of Ireland, but to him as a student of national politics
and economy, to whom any general reflections on the character of mountaineers would be welcome.
In Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 201, it is stated that 'it was the philosophy of the book that
Burke thought well of.'

[401] Mr. Langley, I have little doubt, is the Mr. L---- of the following passage in Johnson's
letter, written from Ashbourne on July 12, 1775:--'Mr. L---- and the Doctor still continue
at variance; and the Doctor is afraid and Mr. L---- not desirous of a reconciliation. I therefore
step over at by-times, and of by-times I have enough.' Piozzi Letters, i. 267.

[402] See ante, ii. 52.

[403] George Garrick. See Murphy's Johnson, p. 141.

[404] See ante, March 26, 1776, and post, Sept. 21, 1777.

[405] 'While Lord Bathurst held the Great Seal, an attempt was in vain made to corrupt him
by a secret offer to Lady Bathurst of three thousand guineas for the living of St. George's,
Hanover Square. The offer was traced to the famous Dr. Dodd, then a King's Chaplain, and he
was immediately dismissed.' Campbell's Chancellors, v. 464. See Walpole's Journal of the Reign
of George III, i. 298.

[406] Horace Walpole, who accompanied Prince Edward to a service at the Magdalen House in 1760,
thus describes the service (Letters, iii. 282): --'As soon as we entered the chapel the organ
played, and the Magdalens sung a hymn in parts. You cannot imagine how well. The chapel was
dressed with orange and myrtle, and there wanted nothing but a little incense to drive away
the devil,--or to invite him. Prayers then began, psalms and a sermon; the latter by a young
clergyman, one Dodd, who contributed to the Popish idea one had imbibed, by haranguing entirely
in the French style, and very eloquently and touchingly. He apostrophised the lost sheep, who
sobbed and cried from their souls: so did my Lady Hertford and Fanny Pelham, till, I believe,
the city dames took them both for Jane Shores. The confessor then turned to the audience, and
addressed himself to his Royal Highness, whom he called most illustrious prince, beseeching
his protection. In short, it was a very pleasing performance, and I got the most illustrious
to desire it might be printed.' Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 503) heard Dodd preach in 1769. 'We
had,' he says, 'difficulty to get tolerable seats, the crowd of genteel people was so great.
The unfortunate young women were in a latticed gallery, where you could only see those who
chose to be seen. The preacher's text was, "If a man look on a woman to lust after her," &c.
The text itself was shocking, and the sermon was composed with the least possible delicacy,
and was a shocking insult on a sincere penitent, and fuel for the warm passions of the hypocrites.
The fellow was handsome, and delivered his discourse remarkably well for a reader. When he
had finished, there were unceasing whispers of applause, which I could not help contradicting
aloud, and condemning the whole institution, as well as the exhibition of the preacher, as
contra bonos mores, and a disgrace to a Christian city.' Goldsmith in 1774 exposed Dodd as
a 'quacking divine' in his Retaliation. He describes Dr. Douglas as a 'The scourge of impostors,
the terror of quacks,' and he continues,--

'But now he is gone, and we want a detector, Our Dodds shall be pious, our Kenricks shall lecture.'

See post, April 7, 1778.

[407] The fifth earl, the successor of the celebrated earl. On Feb. 22, 1777, Dodd was convicted
of forging a bond for L4,200 in his name; Ann. Reg. xx. 168. The earl was unfortunate in his
tutors, for he had been also under Cuthbert Shaw (ante, ii 31 note 2).

[408] Mr. Croker quotes the following letter of Dodd, dated 1750:--'I spent yesterday afternoon
with Johnson, the celebrated author of The Rambler, who is of all others the oddest and most
peculiar fellow I ever saw. He is six feet high, has a violent convulsion in his head, and
his eyes are distorted. He speaks roughly and loud, listens to no man's opinions, thoroughly
pertinacious of his own. Good sense flows from him in all he utters, and he seems possessed
of a prodigious fund of knowledge, which he is not at all reserved in communicating; but in
a manner so obstinate, ungenteel, and boorish, as renders it disagreeable and dissatisfactory.
In short it is impossible for words to describe him. He seems often inattentive to what passes
in company, and then looks like a person possessed by some superior spirit. I have been reflecting
on him ever since I saw him. He is a man of most universal and surprising genius, but in himself
particular beyond expression.' Dodd was born in 1729.

[409] 'One of my best and tenderest friends,' Johnson called him, post, July 31, 1784. See
post, April 10, 1778.

[410] The Convict's Address to his Unhappy Brethren: Being a Sermon preached by the Rev. Dr.
Dodd, Friday, June 6, 1777, in the Chapel of Newgate, while under sentence of death, for forging
the name of the Earl of Chesterfield on a bond for L4,200. Sold by the booksellers and news-carriers.
Price Two-pence. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale from Lichfield on Aug. 9:--'Lucy said, "When
I read Dr. Dodd's sermon to the prisoners, I said Dr. Johnson could not make a better."'

Piozzi Letters, i. 352. See post, p. 167.

[411] 'What must I do to be saved?' Acts xvi. 30.

[412] 'And finally we must commend and entrust our souls to Him who died for the sins of men;
with earnest wishes and humble hopes that He will admit us with the labourers who entered the
vineyard at the last hour, and associate us with the thief whom he pardoned on the cross.' p. 14.

[413] The Gent. Mag. for 1777 (p. 450) says of this address:--'As none but a convict could
have written this, all convicts ought to read it; and we therefore recommend its being framed,
and hung up in all prisons.' Mr. Croker, italicising could and suppressing the latter part
of the sentence, describes it as a criticism that must have been offensive to Johnson. The
writer's meaning is simple enough. The address, he knew, was delivered in the Chapel of Newgate
by a prisoner under sentence of death. If, instead of 'written' he had said 'delivered,' his
meaning would have been quite clear.

[414] Having unexpectedly, by the favour of Mr. Stone, of London Field, Hackney, seen the original
in Johnson's hand-writing, of 'The Petition of the City of London to his Majesty, in favour
of Dr. Dodd,' I now present it to my readers, with such passages as were omitted in-closed
in crotchets, and the additions or variations marked in Italicks.

'That William Dodd, Doctor of Laws, now lying under sentence of death in your Majesty's gaol
of Newgate, for the crime of forgery, has for a great part of his life set a useful and laudable
example of diligence in his calling, [and as we have reason to believe, has exercised his ministry
with great fidelity and efficacy,] which, in many instances, has produced the most happy effect.

'That he has been the first institutor, [or] and a very earnest and active promoter of several
modes of useful charity, and [that] therefore [he] may be considered as having been on many
occasions a benefactor to the publick.

'[That when they consider his past life, they are willing to suppose his late crime to have
been not the consequence of habitual depravity, but the suggestion of some sudden and violent
temptation.]

'[That] Your Petitioners therefore considering his case, as in some of its circumstances unprecedented
and peculiar, and encouraged by your Majesty's known clemency, [they] most humbly recommend
the said William Dodd to [his] your Majesty's most gracious consideration, in hopes that he
will be found not altogether [unfit] unworthy to stand an example of Royal Mercy.' BOSWELL.

[415] His Speech at the Old Bailey, when found guilty. BOSWELL.

[416] In the second edition he is described as 'now Lord Hawkesbury.' He had entered public
life as Lord Bute's private secretary, and, according to Horace Walpole, continued in it as
his tool.' Memoirs of the Reign of George III, iv. 70, 115. Walpole speaks of him as one of
'the Jesuits of the Treasury' (Ib. p. 110), and 'the director or agent of all the King's secret
counsels. His appearance was abject, his countenance betrayed a consciousness of secret guilt;
and, though his ambition and rapacity were insatiate, his demeanour exhibited such a want of
spirit, that had he stood forth as Prime Minister, which he really was, his very look would
have encouraged opposition.' Ib. p. 135. The third Earl of Liverpool wrote to Mr. Croker on
Dec. 7, 1845: --'Very shortly before George III's accession my father became confidential secretary
of Lord Bute, if you can call secretary a man who all through his life was so bad a penman
that he always dictated everything, and of whom, although I have a house full of papers, I
have scarcely any in his own hand.' Croker Corres. iii. 178. The editor is in error in saying
that the Earl of Liverpool who wrote this was son of the Prime Minister. He was his half-brother.

[417] Burke wrote to Garrick of Fitzherbert:--'You know and love him; but I assure you, until
we can talk some late matters over, you, even you, can have no adequate idea of the worth of
that man.' Garrick Corres. i. 190. See ante, i. 82.

[418] 'I remember a man,' writes Mrs. Piozzi (Synonomy, i. 2l7), 'much delighted in by the
upper ranks of society, who upon a trifling embarrassment in his affairs hanged himself behind
the stable door, to the astonishment of all who knew him as the liveliest companion and most
agreeable converser breathing. "What upon earth," said one at our house, "could have made--[Fitzherbert]
hang himself?" "Why, just his having a multitude of acquaintance," replied Dr. Johnson, "and
ne'er a friend."' See ante, ii. 228.

[419] Dr. Gisborne, Physician to his Majesty's Household, has obligingly communicated to me
a fuller account of this story than had reached Dr. Johnson. The affected Gentleman was the
late John Gilbert Cooper, Esq., author of a Life of Socrates, and of some poems in Dodsley's
Collection. Mr. Fitzherbert found him one morning, apparently, in such violent agitation, on
account of the indisposition of his son, as to seem beyond the power of comfort. At length,
however, he exclaimed, 'I'll write an Elegy.' Mr. Fitzherbert being satisfied, by this, of
the sincerity of his emotions, slyly said, 'Had not you better take a postchaise and go and
see him?' It was the shrewdness of the insinuation which made the story be circulated. BOSWELL.
Malone writes:--'Mr. Cooper was the last of the benevolists or sentimentalists, who were much
in vogue between 1750 and 1760, and dealt in general admiration of virtue. They were all tenderness
in words; their finer feeling evaporated in the moment of expression, for they had no connection
with their practice.' Prior's Malone, p. 427. See ante, ii. 129. This fashion seems to have
reached Paris a few years later. Mme. Riccoboni wrote to Garrick on May 3, 1769:--'Dans notre
brillante capitale, ou dominent les airs et la mode, s'attendrir, s'emouvoir, s'affliger, c'est
le bon ton du moment. La bonte, la sensibilite, la tendre humanite sont devenues la fantaisie
universelle. On ferait volontiers des malheureux pour gouter la douceur de les plaindre.' Garrick
Corres. ii. 561.

[420] Johnson had felt the truth of this in the case of 'old Mr. Sheridan.' Ante, i. 387.

[421] Johnson, in his letters from Ashbourne, used to joke about Taylor's cattle:--'July 23,
1770. I have seen the great bull, and very great he is. I have seen likewise his heir apparent,
who promises to enherit all the bulk and all the virtues of his sire, I have seen the man who
offered an hundred guineas for the young bull, while he was yet little better than a calf.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 33. 'July 3, 1771. The great bull has no disease but age. I hope in time
to be like the great bull; and hope you will be like him too a hundred years hence.' Ib. p.
39. 'July 10, 1771. There has been a man here to-day to take a farm. After some talk he went
to see the bull, and said that he had seen a bigger. Do you think he is likely to get the farm?'
Ib. p. 43. 'Oct. 31, 1772. Our bulls and cows are all well; but we yet hate the man that had
seen a bigger bull.' Ib. p. 61.

[422] Quoted by Boswell in his Hebrides, Aug. 16, 1773.

[423] In the letters that Boswell and Erskine published (ante, 384, note) are some verses by
Erskine, of very slight merit.

[424] Horace, Odes, ii. 4.

[425]

'The tender glance, the red'ning cheek,
  O'erspread with rising blushes,
A thousand various ways they speak
  A thousand various wishes.'

Hamilton's Poems, ed. 1760, p. 59.

[426] In the original, Now. Ib. p. 39.

[427] Thomson, in The Seasons, Winter, 1. 915, describes how the ocean

      'by the boundless frost
Is many a fathom to the bottom chain'd.'

In 1. 992, speaking of a thaw, he says,

'The rivers swell of bonds impatient.'

[428] See ante March 24, 1776.

[429] Johnson wrote of Pope (Works, viii. 309):--'The indulgence and accommodation which his
sickness required had taught him all the unpleasing and unsocial qualities of a valetudinary man.'

[430] When he was ill of a fever he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'The doctor was with me again to-day,
and we both think the fever quite gone. I believe it was not an intermittent, for I took of
my own head physick yesterday; and Celsus says, it seems, that if a cathartick be taken the
fit will return certo certius. I would bear something rather than Celsus should be detected
in an error. But I say it was a febris continua, and had a regular crisis.' Piozzi Letters, i. 89.

[431] Johnson must have shortened his life by the bleedings that he underwent. How many they
were cannot be known, for no doubt he was often bled when he has left no record of it. The
following, however, I have noted. I do not know that he was bled more than most people of his
time. Dr. Taylor, it should seem, underwent the operation every quarter.

Dec. 1755. Thrice. 54 ounces. Croker's Boswell, p. 100.

Jan. 1761. Once. Ib. p. 122.

April 1770. Cupped. Pemb. Coll. MSS.

Winter of 1772-3. Three times. Ante, ii. 206, and Pemb. Coll. MSS.

May 1773. Two copious bleedings. Pr. and Med. 130.

1774. Times not mentioned. 36 ounces. Piozzi Letters, i. 209.

Jan. 1777. Three bleedings. 22 ounces in first two. Ib. i. 343.

Jan. 1780. Once. Post, Jan. 20, 1780.

June 1780. Times not mentioned. Croker's Boswell, p. 649.

Jan. and Feb. 1782. Thrice. 50 ounces. Post, Feb. 4 and March 20, 1782.

May 1782. At least once. Post, under March 19, 1782, and Piozzi Letters, ii. 240.

Yet he wrote to Mrs. Thrale, 'I am of the chymical sect, which holds phlebotomy in abhorrence.'
Ib. ii. 240. 'O why,' asks Wesley, who was as strongly opposed to bleeding as he was fond of
poulticing, 'will physicians play with the lives of their patients? Do not others (as well
as old Dr. Cockburn) know that "no end is answered by bleeding in a pleurisy, which may not
be much better answered without it?"' Wesley's Journal, ii. 310. 'Dr. Cheyne,' writes Pope,
'was of Mr. Cheselden's opinion, that bleeding might be frequently repeated with safety, for
he advised me to take four or five ounces every full moon.' Elwin and Courthope's Pope's Works,
ix. 162.

[432] 'It is the heaviest stone that melancholy can throw at a man, to tell him he is at the
end of his nature.' Sir Thomas Browne quoted in Johnson's Works, vi. 485. See post, April 15,
1778, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 12, 1773. See ante, March 20, 1776, note.

[435] Bacon, in his Essay on Death, says:--'It is worthy the observing, that there is no passion
in the mind of man so weak but it mates and masters the fear of death; and therefore death
is no such terrible enemy, when a man hath so many attendants about him, that can win the combat
of him.' In the De Aug. Sci. vi. 3. 12, he says:--'Non invenias inter humanos affetum tam pusillum,
qui si intendatur paullo vehementius, non mortis metum superet.'

[436] Johnson, in his Lives of Addison and Parnell (Works, vii. 399, 449), mentions that they
drank too freely. See post, under Dec. 2, 1784.

[437] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides. 3d edit. p. 240 [Sept. 22]. BOSWELL.

[438] In the Life of Addison (Works, vii. 444) he says:--'The necessity of complying with times,
and of sparing persons, is the great impediment of biography. History may be formed from permanent
monuments and records; but Lives can only be written from personal knowledge, which is growing
every day less, and in a short time is lost for ever. What is known can seldom be immediately
told; and when it might be told, it is no longer known. The delicate features of the mind,
the nice discriminations of character, and the minute peculiarities of conduct, are soon obliterated;
and it is surely better that caprice, obstinacy, frolick and folly, however they might delight
in the description, should be silently forgotten, than that, by wanton merriment and unseasonable
detection, a pang should be given to a widow, a daughter, a brother, or a friend. As the process
of these narratives is now bringing me among my contemporaries, I begin to feel myself "walking
upon ashes under which the fire is not extinguished," and coming to the time of which it will
be proper rather to say "nothing that is false, than all that is true."' See ante, i. 9, and 30.

[439] Dr. Taylor was very ready to make this admission, because the party with which he was
connected was not in power. There was then some truth in it, owing to the pertinacity of factious
clamour. Had he lived till now, it would have been impossible for him to deny that his Majesty
possesses the warmest affection of his people. BOSWELL. See post, March 21, 1783.

[440] The Duke of York in 1788, speaking in the House of Lords on the King's illness, said:--'He
was confident that his Royal Highness [the Prince of Wales] understood too well the sacred
principles which seated the House of Brunswick on the throne of Great Britain ever to assume
or exercise any power, be his claim what it might, not derived from the will of the people,
expressed by their representatives, and their lordships in parliament assembled.' Parl. Hist.
xxvii. 678.

[441] See ante, i. 430.

[442] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 18, 1773, and post, under date of Sept. 9, 1779, note.

[443] 'The return of my birth-day,' he wrote in 1773, 'if I remember it, fills me with thoughts
which it seems to be the general care of humanity to escape.' Piozzi Letters, i. 134. In 1781
he viewed the day with calmness, if not with cheerfulness. He writes:--'I rose, breakfasted,
and gave thanks at church for my creation, preservation and redemption. As I came home, I thought
I had never begun any period of life so placidly. I have always been accustomed to let this
day pass unnoticed, but it came this time into my mind that some little festivity was not improper.
I had a dinner; and invited Allen and Levet.' Pr. and Med. p. 198. In 1783 he again had 'a
little dinner,' and invited four friends to keep the day. Croker's Boswell, p. 739. At Streatham
the day, it would seem, was always kept. Mrs. Piozzi writes (Anec. p. 211):--'On the birthday
of our eldest daughter, and that of our friend, Dr. Johnson, the 17th and 18th of September,
we every year made up a little dance and supper to divert our servants and their friends.'

[444] The son of a Mr. Coxeter, 'a gentleman,' says Johnson, 'who was once my friend,' enlisted
in the service of the East India Company. Johnson asked Mr. Thrale to use his influence to
get his discharge. Piozzi Letters, i. 33.

[445] The bookseller whom Johnson beat, ante, i. 154.

[446] 'When a well-known author published his poems in the year 1777, "Such a one's verses
are come out," said I: "Yes," replied Johnson, "and this frost has struck them in again. Here
are some lines I have written to ridicule them; but remember that I love the fellow dearly
now--for all I laugh at him.

'Wheresoe'er I turn my view, All is strange, yet nothing new; Endless labour all along, Endless
labour to be wrong; Phrase that time has flung away; Uncouth words in disarray, Trick'd in
antique ruff and bonnet, Ode, and elegy, and sonnet.'"'

Piozzi's Anec. p. 64.

Thomas Warton in 1777 published a volume of his poems. He, no doubt, is meant.

[447] In The Rambler, No. 121. 404. Goldsmith, eleven years earlier, said in his Life of Parnell
(Misc. Works, iv. 22):--'These misguided innovators have not been content with restoring antiquated
words and phrases, but have indulged themselves in the most licentious transpositions and the
harshest constructions, vainly imagining that the more their writings are unlike prose, the
more they resemble poetry.' Collins and Warton might have quoted by way of defence the couplet
in Milton's L'Allegro.--

'While the cock with lively din Scatters the rear of darkness thin.'

[450] As some of my readers may be gratified by reading the progress of this little composition,
I shall insert it from my notes. 'When Dr. Johnson and I were sitting tete-a-tete at the Mitre
tavern, May 9, 1778, he said "Where is bliss," would be better. He then added a ludicrous stanza,
but would not repeat it, lest I should take it down. It was somewhat as follows; the last line
I am sure I remember:

"While I thus cried,
The hoary seer reply'd,
  Come, my lad, and drink some beer."

In spring, 1779, when in better humour, he made the second stanza, as in the text. There was
only one variation afterwards made on my suggestion, which was changing hoary in the third
line to smiling, both to avoid a sameness with the epithet in the first line, and to describe
the hermit in his pleasantry. He was then very well pleased that I should preserve it.' BOSWELL.

[451] When I mentioned Dr. Johnson's remark to a lady of admirable good sense and quickness
of understanding, she observed, 'It is true, all this excludes only one evil; but how much
good does it let in?'--To this observation much praise has been justly given. Let me then now
do myself the honour to mention that the lady who made it was the late Margaret Montgomerie,
my very valuable wife, and the very affectionate mother of my children, who, if they inherit
her good qualities, will have no reason to complain of their lot. Dos magna parentum virtus.
BOSWELL. The latter part of this note was first given in the second edition. The quotation
if from Horace:--

'Cos est magna parentium Virtus.' 'The lovers there for dowry claim The father's virtue and
the mother's fame.'

FRANCIS, Horace, Odes, iii. 24. 21.

[452] He saw it in 1774 on his way to Wales; but he must, I think, have seen it since, for
it does not appear from his Journal of a Tour into Wales that he then saw Lord Scarsdale. He
met him also at Dr. Taylor's in July 1775. Piozzi Letters, i. 267.

[453] I do not find the description in Young's Six Months' Tour through the North of England,
but in Pilkington's Present State of Derbyshire, ii. 120.

[454]

'Quae regio in terris nostri non plena laboris?' 'What place, what land in all the earth but
with our grief is stored?'

Morris, AEneids, i. 460.

[455] See ante, March 21 and 28, 1776.

[456] At Derby.

[457] Baretti in his Italy, i. 236, says:--'It is the general custom for our authors to make
a present of their works to booksellers, who in return scarcely give a few copies when printed.'
The Venetian bookseller to whom Metastasio gave his cleared, Baretti says, more than L10,000.
Goldoni scarcely got for each of his plays ten pounds from the manager of the Venetian theatre,
and much less from the booksellers. 'Our learned stare when they are told that in England there
are numerous writers who get their bread by their productions only.'

[458] I am now happy to understand, that Mr. John Home, who was himself gallantly in the field
for the reigning family, in that interesting warfare, but is generous enough to do justice
to the other side, is preparing an account of it for the press. BOSWELL. Dr. A. Carlyle, who
knew Home well, says (Auto. p. 295):--'All his opinions of men and things were prejudices,
which, though it did not disqualify him for writing admirable poetry, yet made him unfit for
writing history.' See ante, i. 225, for Boswell's projected works.

[459] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale the next day:--'The finer pieces [of the Derby china] are
so dear that perhaps silver vessels of the same capacity may be sometimes bought at the same
price; and I am not yet so infected with the contagion of china-fancy as to like anything at
that rate which can so easily be broken.' Piozzi Letters, i. 380.

[460] See ante, April 14, 1775.

[461] See Hutton's History of Derby, a book which is deservedly esteemed for its information,
accuracy, and good narrative. Indeed the age in which we live is eminently distinguished by
topographical excellence. BOSWELL. According to Hutton the Italians at the beginning of the
eighteenth century had 'the exclusive art of silk-throwing.' Lombe went to Italy, and by bribery
got admittance into the works. Having mastered the secret he returned to England with two of
the workmen. About the year 1717 he founded a great silk-mill at Derby. He died early, being
poisoned, it was asserted, by an Italian woman who had been sent over to destroy him. In this
mill, Hutton, as a child, 'had suffered intolerable severity.' Hutton's Derby, pp. 193-205.

[462] 'I have enlarged my notions,' recorded Johnson in his Journal of a Tour into Wales (Aug.
3, 1774), after he had seen some iron-works.

[463] Young. BOSWELL. See also ante, i. 471.

[465] Perhaps Boswell is thinking of Gray's lines at the close of the Progress of Poesy:--

'Yet shall he mount, and keep his distant way Beyond the limits of a vulgar fate.'

[466] Goldsmith wrote:--'In all Pope's letters, as well as in those of Swift, there runs a
strain of pride, as if the world talked of nothing but themselves. "Alas," says he in one of
them, "the day after I am dead the sun will shine as bright as the day before, and the world
will be as merry as usual." Very strange, that neither an eclipse nor an earthquake should
follow the loss of a poet!' Cunningham's Goldsmith's Works, iv. 85. Goldsmith refers, I suppose,
to Pope's letter to Steele of July 15, 1712, where he writes:--'The morning after my exit the
sun will rise as bright as ever, the flowers smell as sweet, the plants spring as green, the
world will proceed in its old course, people will laugh as heartily, and marry as fast as they
were used to do.' Elwin's Pope's Works, vi. 392. Gray's friend, Richard West, in some lines
suggested by this letter, gives a pretty turn to Pope's thoughts where he says:--

'For me, whene'er all-conquering Death shall spread His wings around my unrepining head, I
care not; tho' this face be seen no more, The world will pass as cheerful as before; Bright
as before the day-star will appear, The fields as verdant, and the skies as clear.'

Mason's Gray, ed. 1807, i. 152.

[467] See post, April 12, 1778.

[468] A brother of Dodd's wife told Hawkins that 'Dodd's manner of living was ever such as
his visible income would no way account for. He said that he was the most importunate suitor
for preferment ever known; and that himself had been the bearer of letters to great men, soliciting
promotion to livings, and had hardly escaped kicking down stairs.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 435.

[469] Hawkins (Life, p. 523) says that a Mr. Selwin, who just missed being elected Chamberlain
of the City, went by request to see a man under sentence of death in Newgate, 'who informed
him that he was in daily expectation of the arrival of the warrant for his execution; "but,"
said he, "I have L200, and you are a man of character, and had the court-interest when you
stood for Chamberlain; I should therefore hope it is in your power to get me off." Mr. Selwin
was struck with so strange a notion, and asked, if there were any alleviating circumstances
in his case. The man peevishly answered "No;" but that he had enquired into the history of
the place where he was, and could not find that any one who had L200 was ever hanged. Mr. Selwin
told him it was out of his power to help him, and bade him farewell--"which," added he, "he
did; for he found means to escape punishment."'

[470] Dodd, in his Dedication of this Sermon to Mr. Villette, the Ordinary of Newgate, says:--'The
following address owes its present public appearance to you. You heard it delivered, and are
pleased to think that its publication will be useful. To a poor and abject worm like myself
this is a sufficient inducement to that publication.'

[471] See ante, p. 97. 'They have,' says Lowndes (Bibl. Man.), 'passed through innumerable
editions.' To how many the book-stalls testify, where they are offered second-hand for a few pence.

[472] Goldsmith was thirty when he published An Enquiry into the Present State of Polite Learning
in Europe; thirty-six when he published The Traveller; thirty-seven when he published The Vicar
of Wakefield, and thirty-nine when he brought out The Good-Natured Man. In flowering late he
was like Swift. 'Swift was not one of those minds which amaze the world with early pregnancy;
his first work, except his few poetical Essays, was the Dissentions in Athens and Rome, published
in his thirty-fourth year.' Johnson's Works, viii. 197. See post, April 9, 1778.

[473] Burke, I think, is meant.

[474] This walking about his room naked was, perhaps, part of Lord Monboddo's system that was
founded 'on the superiority of the savage life.' Ante, ii. 147.

[475] This regimen was, however, practised by Bishop Ken, of whom Hawkins (not Sir John) in
his life of that venerable Prelate, p. 4, tells us: 'And that neither his study might be the
aggressor on his hours of instruction, or what he judged his duty prevent his improvements;
or both, his closet addresses to his GOD; he strictly accustomed himself to but one sleep,
which often obliged him to rise at one or two of the clock in the morning, and sometimes sooner;
and grew so habitual, that it continued with him almost till his last illness. And so lively
and chearful was his temper, that he would be very facetious and entertaining to his friends
in the evening, even when it was perceived that with difficulty he kept his eyes open; and
then seemed to go to rest with no other purpose than the refreshing and enabling him with more
vigour and chearfulness to sing his morning hymn, as he then used to do to his lute before
he put on his cloaths.' BOSWELL.

[476] See ante, under Dec. 17, 1775.

[477] Boswell shortened his life by drinking, if, indeed, he did not die of it. Less than a
year before his death he wrote to Temple:--'I thank you sincerely for your friendly admonition
on my frailty in indulging so much in wine. I do resolve anew to be upon my guard, as I am
sensible how very pernicious as well as disreputable such a habit is! How miserably have I
yielded to it in various years!' Letters of Boswell, p. 353. Ib. p. 233. For a short time also
in 1778 Boswell was a water-drinker, Post, April 28, 1778.

[478] Sir James Mackintosh told Mr. Croker that he believed Lord Errol was meant here as well
as post, April 28, 1778. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 24, 1773.

[479] 'Must give us pause.' Hamlet, act iii. sc. 1.

[480] 'He was the first,' writes Dr. T. Campbell (Survey of the South of Ireland, p. 373),
'who gave histories of the weather, seasons, and diseases of Dublin.' Wesley records (Journal,
iv. 40):--'April 6, 1775. I visited that venerable man, Dr. Rutty, just tottering over the
grave; but still clear in his understanding, full of faith and love, and patiently waiting
till his change should come.'

[481] Cowper wrote of Johnson's Diary:--'It is certain that the publisher of it is neither
much a friend to the cause of religion nor to the author's memory; for, by the specimen of
it that has reached us, it seems to contain only such stuff as has a direct tendency to expose
both to ridicule.' Southey's Cowper, v. 152.

[482] Huet, Bishop of Avranches, born 1630, died 1721, published in 1718 Commentarius de rebus
ad eum pertinentibus. Nouv. Biog. Gene. xxv. 380.

[483] When Dr. Blair published his Lectures, he was invidiously attacked for having omitted
his censure on Johnson's style, and, on the contrary, praising it highly. But before that time
Johnson's Lives of the Poets had appeared, in which his style was considerably easier than
when he wrote The Rambler. It would, therefore, have been uncandid in Blair, even supposing
his criticism to have been just, to have preserved it. BOSWELL.

[484] Johnson refers no doubt to the essay On Romances, An Imitation, by A. L. Aikin (Mrs.
Barbauld); in Miscellaneous Pieces in Prose, by J. and A. L. Aikin (1773), p. 39. He would
be an acute critic who could distinguish this Imitation from a number of The Rambler.

[485] See post, under Dec. 6, 1784.

[486] Id est, The Literary Scourge.

[487] See ante, ii. 236, where Johnson attacks 'the verbiage of Robertson.'

[488] 'We were now treading that illustrious island, which was once the luminary of the Caledonian
regions, whence savage clans and roving barbarians derived the benefits of knowledge, and the
blessings of religion. To abstract the mind from all local emotion would be impossible if it
were endeavoured, and would be foolish if it were possible. Whatever withdraws us from the
power of our senses, whatever makes the past, the distant, or the future, predominate over
the present, advances us in the dignity of thinking beings. Far from me, and from my friends,
be such rigid philosophy, as may conduct us, indifferent and unmoved, over any ground which
has been dignified by wisdom, bravery or virtue. The [That] man is little to be envied, whose
patriotism would not gain force upon the plain of Marathon, or whose piety would not grow warmer
among the ruins of Iona.' Had our Tour produced nothing else but this sublime passage, the
world must have acknowledged that it was not made in vain. Sir Joseph Banks, the present respectable
President of the Royal Society, told me, he was so much struck on reading it, that he clasped
his hands together, and remained for some time in an attitude of silent admiration. BOSWELL.
See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 19, 1773, and Johnson's Works, ix. 145.

[489] 'He that thinks with more extent than another will want words of larger meaning.' Ante,
i. 218.

[490] In the original island.

[491] See ante, ii. 203, note 3.

[492] In this censure which has been carelessly uttered, I carelessly joined. But in justice
to Dr. Kippis, who with that manly candid good temper which marks his character, set me right,
I now with pleasure retract it; and I desire it may be particularly observed, as pointed out
by him to me, that 'The new lives of dissenting Divines in the first four volumes of the second
edition of the Biographia Brittanica, are those of John Abernethy, Thomas Amory, George Benson,
Hugh Broughton the learned Puritan, Simon Browne, Joseph Boyse of Dublin, Thomas Cartwright
the learned Puritan, and Samuel Chandler. The only doubt I have ever heard suggested is, whether
there should have been an article of Dr. Amory. But I was convinced, and am still convinced,
that he was entitled to one, from the reality of his learning, and the excellent and candid
nature of his practical writings.

'The new lives of clergymen of the Church of England, in the same four volumes, are as follows:
John Balguy, Edward Bentham, George Berkley Bishop of Cloyne, William Berriman, Thomas Birch,
William Borlase, Thomas Bott, James Bradley, Thomas Broughton, John Brown, John Burton, Joseph
Butler Bishop of Durham, Thomas Carte, Edmund Castell, Edmund Chishull, Charles Churchill,
William Clarke, Robert Clayton Bishop of Clogher, John Conybeare Bishop of Bristol, George
Costard, and Samuel Croxall.--"I am not conscious (says Dr. Kippis) of any partiality in conducting
the work. I would not willingly insert a Dissenting Minister that does not justly deserve to
be noticed, or omit an established Clergyman that does. At the same time, I shall not be deterred
from introducing Dissenters into the Biographia, when I am satisfied that they are entitled
to that distinction, from their writings, learning, and merit."'

Let me add that the expression 'A friend to the Constitution in Church and State,' was not
meant by me, as any reflection upon this reverend gentleman, as if he were an enemy to the
political constitution of his country, as established at the revolution, but, from my steady
and avowed predilection for a Tory, was quoted from Johnson's Dictionary, where that distinction
is so defined. BOSWELL. 320.

Horace Walpole said that the 'Biographia Britannica ought rather to be called Vindicatio Britannica,
for that it was a general panegyric upon everybody.' Prior's Malone, p. 115.

[493] See ante, p. 99.

[494]

'Great wits are sure to madness near allied, And thin partitions do their bounds divide.'

Dryden's Absalom and Achitophel, 1, 163.

[495] Observations on Insanity, by Thomas Arnold, M.D., London, 1782. BOSWELL.

[496] We read in the Gospels, that those unfortunate persons who were possessed with evil spirits
(which, after all, I think is the most probable cause of madness, as was first suggested to
me by my respectable friend Sir John Pringle), had recourse to pain, tearing themselves, and
jumping sometimes into the fire, sometimes into the water. Mr. Seward has furnished me with
a remarkable anecdote in confirmation of Dr. Johnson's observation. A tradesman, who had acquired
a large fortune in London, retired from business, and went to live at Worcester. His mind,
being without its usual occupation, and having nothing else to supply its place, preyed upon
itself, so that existence was a torment to him. At last he was seized with the stone; and a
friend who found him in one of its severest fits, having expressed his concern, 'No, no, Sir,
(said he) don't pity me: what I now feel is ease compared with that torture of mind from which
it relieves me.' BOSWELL.

[497] See ante, i. 446. 'Johnson was a great enemy to the present fashionable way of supposing
worthless and infamous persons mad.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 203.

[498] See post, April 1, 1779.

[499] See post, April 7, 1778.

[500] 'Reynolds,' writes Malone, 'was as fond of London as Dr. Johnson; always maintaining
that it was the only place in England where a pleasant society might be found.' Prior's Malone
p. 433. Gibbon wrote to Holroyd Misc. Works, ii 126:--'Never pretend to allure me by painting
in odious colours the dust of London. I love the dust, and whenever I move into the Weald it
is to visit you and my Lady, and not your trees.' Burke, on the other hand, wrote (Corres.
iii 422):--'What is London? clean, commodious, neat; but, a very few things indeed excepted,
and endless addition of littleness to littleness, extending itself over a great tract of land.'
'For a young man,' he says, 'for a man of easy fortune, London is the best place one can imagine.
But for the old, the infirm, the straightened in fortune, the grave in character or in disposition,
I do not believe a much worse place can be found.' Ib. iv. 250.

[501]

'Nescio qua natale solum dulcedine captos
  Ducit, et immemores non sinit esse sui.'
Ovid, Ep. ex Ponto, i. 3. 35.

[502] 'In the morn and liquid dew of youth.' Hamlet, act i. sc. 3.

[503] Now, at the distance of fifteen years since this conversation passed, the observation
which I have had an opportunity of making in Westminster Hall has convinced me, that, however
true the opinion of Dr. Johnson's legal friend may have been some time ago, the same certainty
of success cannot now be promised to the same display of merit. The reasons, however, of the
rapid rise of some, and the disappointment of others equally respectable, are such as it might
seem invidious to mention, and would require a longer detail than would be proper for this
work. BOSWELL. Boswell began to eat his dinners in the Inner Temple in 1775. Ante, p. 45 note
1, and Letters of Boswell, p. 196. In writing to Temple he thus mentions his career as a barrister.
'Jan. 10, 1789. In truth I am sadly discouraged by having no practice, nor probable prospect
of it; and to confess fairly to you, my friend, I am afraid that, were I to be tried, I should
be found so deficient in the forms, the quirks and the quiddities, which early habit acquires,
that I should expose myself. Yet the delusion of Westminster Hall, of brilliant reputation
and splendid fortune as a barrister, still weighs upon my imagination.' Ib. p. 267. 'Aug. 23,
1789. The Law life in Scotland amongst vulgar familiarity would now quite destroy me. I am
not able to acquire the Law of England.' Ib. p. 304. 'Nov. 28, 1789. I have given up my house
and taken good chambers in the Inner Temple, to have the appearance of a lawyer. O Temple!
Temple! is this realising any of the towering hopes which have so often been the subject of
our conversations and letters? ... I do not see the smallest opening in Westminster Hall but
I like the scene, though I have attended only one day this last term, being eager to get my
Life of Johnson finished.' Ib. p. 314. 'April 6, 1791. When my book is launched, I shall, if
I am alone and in tolerable health and spirits, have some furniture put into my chambers in
the Temple, and force myself to sit there some hours a-day, and to attend regularly in Westminster
Hall. The chambers cost me L20 yearly, and I may reckon furniture and a lad to attend there
occasionally L20 more. I doubt whether I shall get fees equal to the expense.' Ib. p. 335.
'Nov. 22, 1791. I keep chambers open in the Temple, I attend in Westminster Hall, but there
is not the least prospect of my having business.' Ib. p. 344. His chambers, as he wrote to
Malone, were 'in the very staircase where Johnson lived.' Croker's Boswell, p. 830.

[504] Sunday was the 21st.

[505] See ante, March 26, 1776, and post, under Nov. 17, 1784.

[506] In Notes and Queries for April, May, and June 1882, is a series of Johnson's letters
to Taylor, between June 10, 1742 and April 12, 1784. In the first Johnson signs himself:--'Your
very affectionate,' (p. 304). On Nov. 18, 1756, he writes:--'Neither of us now can find many
whom he has known so long as we have known each other.... We both stand almost single in the
world,' (p. 324). On July 15, 1765, he reproaches Taylor with not writing:--'With all your
building and feasting you might have found an hour in some wet day for the remembrance of your
old friend. I should have thought that since you have led a life so festive and gay, you would
have [invited] me to partake of your hospitality,' (p. 383). On Oct. 19, 1779, he says:--'Write
to me soon. We are both old. How few of those whom we have known in our youth are left alive!'
(p. 461). On April 12, 1784, he writes:--'Let us be kind to one another. I have no friend now
living but you and Mr. Hector that was the friend of my youth,' (p. 482, and post, April 12,
1784). See ante, p. 131, for his regret on the death of his school-fellow, Henry Jackson, who
seemed to Boswell (ante, under March 22, 1776) to be a low man, dull and untaught. 'One of
the old man's miseries,' he wrote, (post, Feb. 3, 1778), 'is that he cannot easily find a companion
able to partake with him of the past.' 'I have none to call me Charley now,' wrote Charles
Lamb on the death of a friend of his boyhood (Talfourd's Lamb, ed. 1865, p. 145). Such a companion
Johnson found in Taylor. That, on the death of his wife, he at once sent for him, not even
waiting for the light of morning to come, is a proof that he had a strong affection for the man.

[507] Ecclesiasticus, ch. xxxviii. verse 25. The whole chapter may be read as an admirable
illustration of the superiority of cultivated minds over the gross and illiterate. BOSWELL.

[508] Passages in Johnson's Letters to Mrs. Thrale are to the same effect. 'Aug. 3, 1771. Having
stayed my month with Taylor I came away on Wednesday, leaving him, I think, in a disposition
of mind not very uncommon, at once weary of my stay, and grieved at my departure.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 52. 'July 13, 1775. Dr. Taylor and I spend little time together, yet he will not yet be
persuaded to hear of parting.' Ib. p. 276. 'July 26, 1775. Having stayed long enough at Ashbourne,
I was not sorry to leave it. I hindered some of Taylor's diversions, and he supplied me with
very little.' Ib p. 287.

[509] The second volume of these Sermons, which was published in 1789, a year after the first,
contains the following addition to the title:--'To which is added a Sermon written by Samuel
Johnson, L.L.D., for the Funeral of his Wife.' 'Dr. Taylor had,' writes Murphy (Life, p. 171),
'The LARGEST BULL in England, and some of the best Sermons.'

[510] If the eminent judge was Lord Mansfield, we may compare with Boswell's regret the lines
in which Pope laments the influence of Westminster Hall and Parliament:--

'There truant Windham every muse gave o'er, There Talbot sunk, and was a wit no more. How sweet
an Ovid, Murray was our boast! How many Martials were in Pulteney lost!'

The Dunciad, iv. 167.

[511] Boswell's brother David had been settled in Spain since 1768. (Boswelliana, p. 5.) He
therefore is no doubt the son, and Lord Auchinleck the father.

[512] See ante, ii. 129, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22, 1773.

[513] 'Jack' had not shown all his manners to Johnson. Gibbon thus describes him in 1762 (Misc.
Works, i. 142):--'Colonel Wilkes, of the Buckinghamshire militia, dined with us. I scarcely
ever met with a better companion; he has inexhaustible spirits, infinite wit and humour, and
a great deal of knowledge; but a thorough profligate in principle as in practice, his life
stained with every vice, and his conversation full of blasphemy and indecency. These morals
he glories in--for shame is a weakness he has long since surmounted.' The following anecdote
in Boswelliana (p. 274) is not given in the Life of Johnson:--'Johnson had a sovereign contempt
for Wilkes and his party, whom he looked upon as a mere rabble. "Sir," said he, "had Wilkes's
mob prevailed against government, this nation had died of phthiriasis. Mr. Langton told me
this. The expression, morbus pediculosus, as being better known would strike more."'

[514] See ante, p. 79, note 1.

[515] See ante, p. 69.

[516] See ante, i. 402.

[517] See ante, i. 167.

[518] See post, under Sept. 30, 1783.

[519] See post, ib., where Johnson told Mrs. Siddons that 'Garrick was no declaimer.'

[520] Hannah More (Memoirs, ii. 16) says that she once asked Garrick 'why Johnson was so often
harsh and unkind in his speeches both of him and to him:--"Why," he replied, "it is very natural;
is it not to be expected he should be angry that I, who have so much less merit than he, should
have had so much greater success?"'

[521] Foote died a month after this conversation. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Did you see
Foote at Brighthelmstone? Did you think he would so soon be gone? Life, says Falstaff, is a
shuttle [Merry Wives of Windsor, act v. sc. 1]. He was a fine fellow in his way; and the world
is really impoverished by his sinking glories. Murphy ought to write his life, at least to
give the world a Footeana. Now will any of his contemporaries bewail him? Will genius change
his sex to weep? I would really have his life written with diligence.' This letter is wrongly
dated Oct. 3, 1777. It was written early in November. Piozzi Letters, i. 396. Baretti, in a
marginal note on Footeana, says:--'One half of it had been a string of obscenities.' See post,
April 24, 1779, note.

[522] See ante, i. 447.

[523] To pit is not in Johnson's Dictionary.

[524] Very likely Mr. Langton. See ante, ii. 254.

[525] Two months earlier Johnson had complained that Langton's table was rather coarse. Ante,
p. 128.

[526] See post, April 13, 1781, where he again mentions this advice. 'He said of a certain
lady's entertainments, "What signifies going thither? There is neither meat, drink, nor talk."'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 207.

[527] William, third Duke of Devonshire, who died in 1755. Johnson (post, April 1, 1779) 'commended
him for a dogged veracity.' Horace Walpole records of him a fact that 'showed a conscientious
idea of honesty in him. Sometime before his death he had given up to two of his younger sons
L600 a-year in land, that they might not perjure themselves, if called upon to swear to their
qualifications as Knights of the Shire.' Memoirs of the Reign of George II, ii. 86.

[528] Philip Francis wrote to Burke in 1790:--'Once for all, I wish you would let me teach
you to write English. To me who am to read everything you write, it would be a great comfort,
and to you no sort of disparagement. Why will you not allow yourself to be persuaded that polish
is material to preservation?' Burke's Corres, iii. 164.

[529] Edit. 2, p. 53. BOSWELL.

[530] This is a mistake. The Ports had been seated at Islam time out of mind. Congreve had
visited there, and his seat, that is the bench on which he sometimes sat, used to be shown.
CROKER. On the way to Islam, Johnson told Boswell about the dedication of his Plan to Lord
Chesterfield. Ante, i. 183, note 4.

[531] See ante, i. 41.

[532] 'I believe more places than one are still shown in groves and gardens where he is related
to have written his Old Bachelor.' Johnson's Works, viii. 23.

[533] Page 89. BOSWELL.

[534] See Plott's History of Staffordshire, p. 88, and the authorities referred to by him. BOSWELL.

[535] See ante, ii. 247, and post, March 31, 1778.

[536] See ante, i. 444.

[538] Campbell, who was an exciseman, had in July, 1769, caught a favourite servant of Lord
Eglintoune in smuggling 80 gallons of rum in one of his master's carts. This, he maintains,
led to an ill-feeling. He had a right to carry a gun by virtue of his office, and from many
of the gentry he had licences to shoot over their grounds. His lordship, however, had forbidden
him to enter his. On Oct. 24, 1769, he passed into his grounds, and walked along the shore
within the sea-mark, looking for a plover. Lord Eglintoune came up with him on the sea-sands
and demanded his gun, advancing as if to seize it. Campbell warned him that he would fire if
he did not keep off, and kept retiring backwards or sideways. He stumbled and fell. Lord Eglintoune
stopped a little, and then made as if he would advance. Campbell thereupon fired, and hit him
in the side. He was found guilty of murder. On the day after the trial he hanged himself in
prison. Ann. Reg. xiii. 219. See ante, ii. 66, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 1.

[539] See ante, p. 40.

[540] See ante, ii. 10.

[541] Boswell here alludes to the motto of his Journal:--

'Oh! while along the stream of time thy name Expanded flies, and gathers all its fame; Say,
shall my little bark attendant sail, Pursue the triumph, and partake the gale?'

Pope's Essay on Man, iv. 383.

[542]

'His listless length at noontide would he stretch, And pore upon the brook that babbles by.'

Gray's Elegy.

[543] Johnson, a fortnight or so later, mentions this waterfall in a letter to Mrs. Thrale,
after speaking of a pool that Mr. Thrale was having dug. 'He will have no waterfall to roar
like the Doctor's. I sat by it yesterday, and read Erasmus's Militis Christiani Enchiridion.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 3.

[544] See post, April 9 and 30, 1778. At the following Easter he recorded: 'My memory is less
faithful in retaining names, and, I am afraid, in retaining occurrences.' Pr. and Med. p. 170.

[545] I am told that Horace, Earl of Orford, has a collection of Bon-Mots by persons who never
said but one. BOSWELL. Horace Walpole had succeeded to his title after the publication of the
first edition of this book.

[546] See Macaulay's Essays, i. 370.

[547] Johnson (Works, vii. 158) tells how 'Rochester lived worthless and useless, and blazed
out his youth and his health in lavish voluptuousness; till, at the age of one and thirty,
he had exhausted the fund of life, and reduced himself to a state of weakness and decay.' He
describes how Burnet 'produced a total change both of his manners and opinions,' and says of
the book in which this conversion is recounted that it is one 'which the critick ought to read
for its elegance, the philosopher for its arguments, and the saint for its piety.' In Johnson's
answer to Boswell we have a play on the title of this work, which is, Some passages of the
Life and Death of John Earl of Rochester.

[548] In the passages from Johnson's Life of Prior, quoted ante, ii. 78, note 3, may be found
an explanation of what he here says. A poet who 'tries to be amorous by dint of study,' and
who 'in his amorous pedantry exhibits the college,' may be gross and yet not excite to lewdness.
Goldsmith, in 1766, in a book entitled Beauties of English Poetry Selected, had inserted two
of Prior's tales, 'which for once interdicted from general reading a book with his name upon
its title-page.' Mr. Forster hereupon remarks 'on the changes in the public taste. Nothing
is more frequent than these, and few things so sudden.' Of these changes he gives some curious
instances. Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 4.

[549] See ante, iii. 5.

[550] See ante, i. 428.

[551] Horace, Odes, ii. 14.

[552] I am informed by Mr. Langton, that a great many years ago he was present when this question
was agitated between Dr. Johnson and Mr. Burke; and, to use Johnson's phrase, they 'talked
their best;' Johnson for Homer, Burke for Virgil. It may well be supposed to have been one
of the ablest and most brilliant contests that ever was exhibited. How much must we regret
that it has not been preserved. BOSWELL. Johnson (Works, vii. 332), after saying that Dryden
'undertook perhaps the most arduous work of its kind, a translation of Virgil,' continues:--'In
the comparison of Homer and Virgil, the discriminative excellence of Homer is elevation and
comprehension of thought, and that of Virgil is grace and splendour of diction. The beauties
of Homer are therefore difficult to be lost, and those of Virgil difficult to be retained.'
Mr. E.J. Payne, in his edition of Burke's Select Works, i. xxxviii, says:-- 'Most writers have
constantly beside them some favourite classical author from whom they endeavour to take their
prevailing tone. Burke, according to Butler, always had a "ragged Delphin Virgil" not far from
his elbow.' See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21, note.

[553] According to Sir Joshua Reynolds, 'Mr. Burke, speaking of Bacon's Essays, said he thought
them the best of his works. Dr. Johnson was of opinion that their excellence and their value
consisted in being the observations of a strong mind operating upon life; and in consequence
you find there what you seldom find in other books.' Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 281. If the
language of theology were extracted from Hooker and the translation of the Bible; the terms
of natural knowledge from Bacon; the phrases of policy, war, and navigation from Raleigh; the
dialect of poetry and fiction from Spenser and Sidney; and the diction of common life from
Shakespeare, few ideas would be lost to mankind for want of English words in which they might
be expressed.'

[555] Of Mallet's Life of Bacon, Johnson says (Works, viii. 465) that it is 'written with elegance,
perhaps with some affectation; but with so much more knowledge of history than of science,
that when he afterwards undertook the Life of Marlborough, Warburton remarked, that he might
perhaps forget that Marlborough was a general, as he had forgotten that Bacon was a philosopher.'

[556] It appears from part of the original journal in Mr. Anderdon's papers that the friend
who told the story was Mr. Beauclerk and the gentleman and lady alluded to were Mr. (probably
Henry) and Miss Harvey. CROKER. Not Harvey but Hervey. See ante, i. 106, and ii. 32, for another
story told by Beauclerk against Johnson of Mr. Thomas Hervey.

[557] Johnson, in his Dictionary, gives as the 17th meaning of make, to raise as profit from
anything. He quotes the speech of Pompey in Measure for Measure, act iv. sc. 3:--'He made five
marks, ready money.' But Pompey, he might reply, was a servant, and his English therefore is
not to be taken as a standard.

[558] Idea he defines as mental imagination.

[559] See post, May 15, 1783, note.

[560] In the first three editions of Boswell we find Tadnor for Tadmor. In Dodsley's Collection,
iv. 229, the last couplet is as follows:--

'Or Tadmor's marble wastes survey, Or in yon roofless cloister stray.'

[561] This is the tune that William Crotch (Dr. Crotch) was heard playing before he was two
years and a half old, on a little organ that his father, a carpenter, had made. Ann. Reg. xxii 79.

[562] See ante, under Dec. 17, 1775.

[563] In 1757 two battalions of Highlanders were raised and sent to North America. Gent. Mag.
xxvii. 42, 333. Boswell (Hebrides, Sept. 3, 1773) mentions 'the regiments which the late Lord
Chatham prided himself in having brought from "the mountains of the north."' Chatham said in
the House of Lords on Dec. 2, 1777:--'I remember that I employed the very rebels in the service
and defence of their country. They were reclaimed by this means; they fought our battles; they
cheerfully bled in defence of those liberties which they attempted to overthrow but a few years
before.' Parl. Hist. xix. 477.

[564]

'Yet hope not life from grief or danger free, Nor think the doom of man reversed for thee.'

Line 154.

[565] See ante, ii. 168. Boswell, when a widower, wrote to Temple of a lady whom he seemed
not unwilling to marry:--'She is about seven-and-twenty, and he [Sir William Scott] tells me
lively and gay-- a Ranelagh girl--but of excellent principles, insomuch that she reads prayers
to the servants in her father's family every Sunday evening.' Letters of Boswell, p. 336.

[566] Pope mentions [Dunciad, iv. 342],

'Stretch'd on the rack of a too easy chair.'

But I recollect a couplet quite apposite to my subject in Virtue an Ethick Epistle, a beautiful
and instructive poem, by an anonymous writer, in 1758; who, treating of pleasure in excess, says:--

'Till languor, suffering on the rack of bliss, Confess that man was never made for this.' BOSWELL.

[567] See post, June 12, 1784.

[568] See ante, p. 86.

[569] 'For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.'
Romans, x. 2.

[570] Horace Walpole wrote:--'Feb. 17, 1773. Caribs, black Caribs, have no representatives
in Parliament; they have no agent but God, and he is seldom called to the bar of the House
to defend their cause.' Walpole's Letters, v. 438. 'Feb. 14, 1774. 'If all the black slaves
were in rebellion, I should have no doubt in choosing my side, but I scarce wish perfect freedom
to merchants who are the bloodiest of all tyrants. I should think the souls of the Africans
would sit heavy on the swords of the Americans.' Ib. vi. 60.

[571] See ante, ii. 27, 312.

[572] 'We are told that the subjection of Americans may tend to the diminution of our own liberties;
an event which none but very perspicacious politicians are able to foresee. If slavery be thus
fatally contagious, how is it that we hear,' etc. Works, vi. 262. In his Life of Milton (ib.
vii. 116) he says:--'It has been observed that they who most loudly clamour for liberty do
not most liberally grant it.'

[573] See page 76 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[574] The address was delivered on May 23, 1770. The editor of Rogers's Table Talk quotes,
on p. 129, Mr. Maltby, the friend of Rogers, who says:--'Dr. C. Burney assured me that Beckford
did not utter one syllable of the speech--that it was wholly the invention of Horne Tooke.
Being very intimate with Tooke, I questioned him on the subject. "What Burney states," he said,
"is true. I saw Beckford just after he came from St. James's. I asked him what he had said
to the King; and he replied, that he had been so confused, he scarcely knew what he had said.
But, cried I, your speech must be sent to the papers; I'll write it for you. I did so immediately,
and it was printed forthwith."' Tooke gave the same account to Isaac Reed. Walpole's Letters,
v. 238, note. Stephens (Life of Horne Tooke, i. 155-8) says, that the King's answer had been
anticipated and that Horne had suggested the idea of a reply. Stephens continues:--'The speech
in reply, as Mr. Horne lately acknowledged to me, was his composition.' Stephens does not seem
to have heard the story that Beckford did not deliver the reply. He says that Horne inserted
the account in the newspapers. 'No one,' he continues, 'was better calculated to give copies
of those harangues than the person who had furnished the originals; and as to the occurrences
at St. James's, he was enabled to detail the particulars from the lips of the members of the
deputation.' Alderman Townshend assured Lord Chatham that Beckford did deliver the speech.
Chatham Corres. iii. 460. Horne Tooke's word is not worth much. He did not resign his living
till more than seven years after he wrote to Wilkes:--'It is true I have suffered the infectious
hand of a bishop to be waved over me; whose imposition, like the sop given to Judas, is only
a signal for the devil to enter.' Stephens's Horne Tooke, i. 76. Beckford, dying in his Mayoralty,
is oddly connected with Chatterton. 'Chatterton had written a political essay for The North
Briton, which, though accepted, was not printed on account of Lord Mayor Beckford's death.
The patriot thus calculated the death of his great patron:--

                            L    s.    d.
Lost by his death in
   this Essay               1    11     6
Gained in Elegies  L2.2
       in Essays   L3.3
                   ----
                            5     5     0
                            -------------
Am glad he is dead by      L3    13     6

D'Israeli's Calamities of Authors, i. 54.

[575] At the time that Johnson wrote this there were serfs in Scotland. An Act passed in 1775
(15 Geo. III. c. 22) contains the following preamble:--'Whereas by the law of Scotland, as
explained by the judges of the courts of law there, many colliers and salters are in a state
of slavery and bondage, bound to the collieries or saltworks where they work for life, transferable
with the coalwork and salteries,' etc. The Act was ineffectual in giving relief, and in 1779
by 39 Geo. III. c. 56 all colliers were 'declared to be free from their servitude.' The last
of these emancipated slaves died in the year 1844. Tranent and its Surroundings, by P. M'Neill,
p. 26. See also Parl. Hist. xxix. 1109, where Dundas states that it was only 'after several
years' struggle that the bill was carried through both Houses.'

[576] See ante, ii. 13.

[577] 'The Utopians do not make slaves of the sons of their slaves; the slaves among them are
such as are condemned to that state of life for the commission of some crime.' Sir T. More's
Utopia--Ideal Commonwealths, p. 129.

[578] The Rev. John Newton (Cowper's friend) in 1763 wrote of the slave-trade, in which he
had been engaged, 'It is indeed accounted a genteel employment, and is usually very profitable,
though to me it did not prove so, the Lord seeing that a large increase of wealth could not
be good for me.' Newton's Life, p. 148. A ruffian of a London Alderman, a few weeks before
The Life of Johnson was published, said in parliament:--'The abolition of the trade would destroy
our Newfoundland fishery, which the slaves in the West Indies supported by consuming that part
of the fish which was fit for no other consumption, and consequently, by cutting off the great
source of seamen, annihilate our marine.' Parl. Hist. xxix. 343.

[579] Gray's Elegy. Mrs. Piozzi maintained that 'mercy was totally abolished by French maxims;
for, if all men are equal, mercy is no more.' Piozzi's Synonymy, i. 370. Johnson, in 1740,
described slavery as 'the most calamitous estate in human life,' a state 'which has always
been found so destructive to virtue, that in many languages a slave and a thief are expressed
by the same word.' Works, v. 265-6. Nineteen years later he wrote of the discoveries of the
Portuguese:--'Much knowledge has been acquired, and much cruelty been committed; the belief
of religion has been very little propagated, and its laws have been outrageously and enormously
violated.' Ib. p. 219. Horace Walpole wrote, on July 9, 1754, (Letters, ii. 394), 'I was reading
t'other day the Life of Colonel Codrington. He left a large estate for the propagation of the
Gospel, and ordered that three hundred negroes should constantly be employed upon it. Did one
ever hear a more truly Christian charity than keeping up a perpetuity of three hundred slaves
to look after the Gospel's estate?' Churchill, in Gotham, published in 1764 (Poems, ii. 101),
says of Europe's treatment of the savage race:--

'Faith too she plants, for her own ends imprest, To make them bear the worst, and hope the best.'

[580]

'With stainless lustre virtue shines, A base repulse nor knows nor fears;

Nor claims her honours, nor declines, As the light air of crowds uncertain veers.' FRANCIS.
Horace Odes, iii. 2.

[581] Sir Walter Scott, in a note to Redgauntlet, Letter 1, says:-- 'Sir John Nisbett of Dirleton's
Doubts and Questions upon the Law especially of Scotland, and Sir James Stewart's Dirleton's
Doubts and Questions resolved and answered, are works of authority in Scottish jurisprudence.
As is generally the case, the Doubts are held more in respect than the solution.'

[582] When Boswell first made Johnson's acquaintance it was he who suffered from the late hours.
Ante, i. 434.

[583] See ante, ii. 312.

[584] Burke, in Present Discontents, says:--'The power of the Crown, almost dead and rotten
as Prerogative, has grown up anew, with much more strength and far less odium, under the name
of Influence.' Influence he explains as 'the method of governing by men of great natural interest
or great acquired consideration.' Payne's Burke, i. 10, 11. 'Influence,' said Johnson,' must
ever be in proportion to property; and it is right it should.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 18.
To political life might be applied what Johnson wrote of domestic life:--'It is a maxim that
no man ever was enslaved by influence while he was fit to be free.' Notes and Queries, 6th
S., v. 343.

[585] Boswell falls into what he calls 'the cant transmitted from age to age in praise of the
ancient Romans.' Ante, i. 311. To do so with Johnson was at once to provoke an attack, for
he looked upon the Roman commonwealth as one 'which grew great only by the misery of the rest
of mankind.' Ib. Moreover he disliked appeals to history. 'General history,' writes Murphy
(Life, p. 138), 'had little of his regard. Biography was his delight. Sooner than hear of the
Punic War he would be rude to the person that introduced the subject.' Mrs. Piozzi says (Anec.
p. 80) that 'no kind of conversation pleased him less, I think, than when the subject was historical
fact or general polity. 'What shall we learn from that stuff?' said he. 'He never,' as he expressed
it, 'desired to hear of the Punic War while he lived.' The Punic War, it is clear, was a kind
of humorous catch word with him. She wrote to him in 1773:--'So here's modern politics in a
letter from me; yes and a touch of the Punic War too.' Piozzi Letters, i. 187. He wrote to
her in 1775, just after she had been at the first regatta held in England:--'You will now find
the advantage of having made one at the regatta.... It is the good of public life that it supplies
agreeable topics and general conversation. Therefore wherever you are, and whatever you see,
talk not of the Punic War; nor of the depravity of human nature; nor of the slender motives
of human actions; nor of the difficulty of finding employment or pleasure; but talk, and talk,
and talk of the regatta.' Ib. p. 260. He was no doubt sick of the constant reference made by
writers and public speakers to Rome. For instance, in Bolingbroke's Dissertation upon Parties,
we find in three consecutive Letters (xi-xiii) five illustrations drawn from Rome.

[586] It is strange that Boswell does not mention that on this day they met the Duke and Duchess
of Argyle in the street. That they did so we learn from Piozzi Letters, i. 386. Perhaps the
Duchess shewed him 'the same marked coldness' as at Inverary. Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 25.

[587] At Auchinleck he had 'exhorted Boswell to plant assiduously.' Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 4.

[588] See ante, i. 72. In Scotland it was Cocker's Arithmetic that he took with him. Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 31. He was not always correct in his calculations. For instance, he wrote to
Mrs. Thrale from Ashbourne less than a fortnight after Boswell's departure: 'Mr. Langdon bought
at Nottingham fair fifteen tun of cheese; which, at an ounce a-piece, will suffice after dinner
for four-hundred-and-eighty thousand men.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 2. To arrive at this number
he must have taken a hundredweight as equal to, not 112, but 100, pounds.

[589] Johnson wrote the next day:--'Boswell is gone, and is, I hope, pleased that he has been
here; though to look on anything with pleasure is not very common. He has been gay and good-humoured
in his usual way, but we have not agreed upon any other expedition.' Piozzi Letters, i. 384.

[590] He lent him also the original journal of his Hebrides, and received in return a complimentary
letter, which he in like manner published. Boswell's Hebrides, near the end.

[591] 'The landlord at Ellon said that he heard he was the greatest man in England, next to
Lord Mansfield.' Ante, ii. 336.

[592] See ante, under March 15, 1776, where Johnson says that 'truth is essential to a story.'

[593] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Boswell kept his journal very diligently; but then what
was there to journalize? I should be glad to see what he says of *********.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 390. The number of stars renders it likely that Beauclerk is meant. See ante, p. 195, note 1.

[594] See ante, ii. 279.

[595] Mr. Beauclerk. See ante, p. 195.

[596] Beauclerk.

[597] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Boswell says his wife does not love me quite well yet,
though we have made a formal peace.' Piozzi Letters, i. 390.

[598] A daughter born to him. BOSWELL. Mr. Croker says that this daughter was Miss Jane Langton,
mentioned post, May 10, 1784.

[599] She had already had eleven children, of whom seven were by this time dead. Ante, p. 109.
This time a daughter was born, and not a young brewer. Post, July 3, 1778.

[600] Three months earlier Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'We are not far from the great year
of a hundred thousand barrels, which, if three shillings be gained upon each barrel, will bring
us fifteen thousand pounds a year.' Piozzi Letters, i. 357. We may see how here, as elsewhere,
he makes himself almost one with the Thrales.

[601] See ante, p. 97.

[602] Mrs. Aston. BOSWELL.

[603] See State Trials, vol. xi. p. 339, and Mr. Hargrave's argument. BOSWELL. See ante, p. 87.

[604] The motto to it was happily chosen:--

'Quamvis ille niger, quamvis tu candidus esses.'

I cannot avoid mentioning a circumstance no less strange than true, that a brother Advocate
in considerable practice, but of whom it certainly cannot be said, Ingenuas didicit fideliter
artes, asked Mr. Maclaurin, with a face of flippant assurance, 'Are these words your own?'
BOSWELL. Sir Walter Scott shows where the humour of this motto chiefly lay. 'The counsel opposite,'
he writes, 'was the celebrated Wight, an excellent lawyer, but of very homely appearance, with
heavy features, a blind eye which projected from its socket, a swag belly, and a limp. To him
Maclaurin applied the lines of Virgil:--

'Quamvis ille niger, quamvis tu candidus esses, O formose puer, nimium ne crede colori.'

['Though he was black, and thou art heavenly fair, Trust not too much to that enchanting face.'

DRYDEN. Virgil, Eclogues, ii. 16.] Mr. Maclaurin wrote an essay against the Homeric tale of
'Troy divine,' I believe, for the sole purpose of introducing a happy motto,--

'Non anni domuere decem non mille carinae.'

[AEneid, ii. 198.] Croker's Boswell, p. 279.

[605] There is, no doubt, some malice in this second mention of Dundas's Scottish accent (see
ante, ii. 160). Boswell complained to Temple in 1789 that Dundas had not behaved well to himself
or his brother David. 'The fact is, he writes, 'on David's being obliged to quit Spain on account
of the war, Dundas promised to my father that he would give him an office. Some time after
my father's death, Dundas renewed the assurance to me in strong terms, and told me he had said
to Lord Caermarthen, "It is a deathbed promise, and I must fulfil it." Yet David has now been
kept waiting above eight years, when he might have established himself again in trade.... This
is cruel usage.' Boswell adds:--'I strongly suspect Dundas has given Pitt a prejudice against
me. The excellent Langton says it is disgraceful; it is utter folly in Pitt not to reward and
attach to his Administration a man of my popular and pleasant talents, whose merit he has acknowledged
in a letter under his own hand.' Letters of Boswell, p. 286.

[606] Knight was kidnapped when a child and sold to a Mr. Wedderburne of Ballandean, who employed
him as his personal servant. In 1769 his master brought him to Britain, and from that time
allowed him sixpence a week for pocket money. By the assistance of his fellow-servants he learnt
to read. In 1772 he read in a newspaper the report of the decision in the Somerset Case. 'From
that time,' said Mr. Ferguson, 'he had had it in his head to leave his master's service.' In
1773 he married a fellow-servant, and finding sixpence a week insufficient for married life,
applied for ordinary wages. This request being refused, he signified his intention of seeking
service elsewhere. On his master's petition to the Justices of Peace of Perthshire, he was
brought before them on a warrant; they decided that he must continue with him as formerly.
For some time he continued accordingly; but a child being born to him, he petitioned the Sheriff,
who decided in his favour. He thereupon left the house of his master, who removed the cause
into the Court of Session.' Ferguson maintained that there are 'many examples of greater servitude
in this country [Scotland] than that claimed by the defender, i.e. [Mr. Wedderburne, the plaintiff].
There still exists a species of perpetual servitude, which is supported by late statutes and
by daily practice, viz. That which takes place with regard to the coaliers and sailers, where,
from the single circumstance of entering to work after puberty, they are bound to perpetual
service, and sold along with the works.' Ferguson's Additional Information, July 4, 1775, pp.
3; 29; and Maclaurin's Additional Information, April 20, 1776, p. 2. See ante, p. 202.

[607] See ante, p. 106.

[608] Florence Wilson accompanied, as tutor, Cardinal Wolsey's nephew to Paris, and published
at Lyons in 1543 his De Tranquillitate Animi Dialogus. Rose's Biog. Dict. xii. 508.

[609] When Johnson visited Boswell in Edinburgh, Mrs. Boswell 'insisted that, to show all respect
to the Sage, she would give up her own bed-chamber to him, and take a worse.' Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 14. See post, April 18, 1778.

[610] See ante, Dec. 23, 1775.

[611] Fielding, in his Voyage to Lisbon (p. 2), writes of him as 'my friend Mr. Welch, whom
I never think or speak of but with love and esteem.' See post, under March 30, 1783.

[612] Johnson defines police as the regulation and government of a city or country, so far
as regards the inhabitants.

[613] At this time Under-secretary of State. See ante, i. 478, note 1.

[614] Fielding, after telling how, unlike his predecessor, he had not plundered the public
or the poor, continues:--'I had thus reduced an income of about L500 a-year of the dirtiest
money upon earth to little more than L300; a considerable proportion of which remained with
my clerk.' He added that he 'received from the Government a yearly pension out of the public
service money.' Voyage to Lisbon, Introduction.

[615] The friendship between Mr. Welch and him was unbroken. Mr. Welch died not many months
before him, and bequeathed him five guineas for a ring, which Johnson received with tenderness,
as a kind memorial. His regard was constant for his friend Mr. Welch's daughters; of whom,
Jane is married to Mr. Nollekens the statuary, whose merit is too well known to require any
praise from me. BOSWELL.

[616] See ante, ii. 50. It seems from Boswell's words, as the editor of the Letters of Boswell
(p. 91) points out, that in this case he was 'only a friend and amateur, and not a duly appointed
advocate.' He certainly was not retained in an earlier stage of the cause, for on July 22,
1767, he wrote:--'Though I am not a counsel in that cause, yet I am much interested in it.'
Ib. p. 93.

[617] Dr. Percy, the Bishop of Dromore, humorously observed, that Levett used to breakfast
on the crust of a roll, which Johnson, after tearing out the crumb for himself, threw to his
humble friend. BOSWELL. Perhaps the word threw is here too strong. Dr. Johnson never treated
Levett with contempt. MALONE.

[618] See this subject discussed in a subsequent page, under May 3, 1779. BOSWELL.

[619] On Feb. 17, Lord North 'made his Conciliatory Propositions.' Parl. Hist. xix. 762.

[620] See ante, ii 111.

[621] See ante, ii. 312.

[622] Alluding to a line in his Vanity of Human Wishes, describing Cardinal Wolsey in his state
of elevation:--

'Through him the rays of regal bounty shine.' BOSWELL.

[623] See ante, p. 205.

[624] 'In my mind's eye, Horatio.' Hamlet, act i. sc. 2.

[625] Mr. Langton. See ante, p. 48.

[626] See ante, May 12, 1775.

[627] Daughter of Dr. Swinfen, Johnson's godfather, and widow of Mr. Desmoulins, a writing-master.
BOSWELL.

[628] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Montagu on March 5:--'Now, dear Madam, we must talk of business.
Poor Davies, the bankrupt bookseller, is soliciting his friends to collect a small sum for
the repurchase of part of his household stuff. Several of them gave him five guineas. It would
be an honour to him to owe part of his relief to Mrs. Montagu.' Croker's Boswell, p. 570. J.
D'Israeli says (Calamities of Authors, i. 265):--'We owe to Davies beautiful editions of some
of our elder poets, which are now eagerly sought after; yet, though all his publications were
of the best kinds, and are now of increasing value, the taste of Tom Davies twice ended in
bankruptcy.' See post, April 7, 1778.

[629] See ante, i. 391. Davies wrote to Garrick in 1763:--'I remember that during the run of
Cymbeline I had the misfortune to disconcert you in one scene of that play, for which I did
immediately beg your pardon, and did attribute it to my accidentally seeing Mr. Churchill in
the pit, with great truth; and that was the only time I can recollect of my being confused
or unmindful of my business when that gentleman was before me. I had even then a more moderate
opinion of my abilities than your candour would allow me, and have always acknowledged that
gentleman's picture of me was fair.' He adds that he left the stage on account of Garrick's
unkindness, 'who,' he says, 'at rehearsals took all imaginable pains to make me unhappy.' Garrick
Corres. i. 165.

[630] He was afterwards Solicitor-General under Lord Rockingham and Attorney-General under
the Duke of Portland. 'I love Mr. Lee exceedingly,' wrote Boswell, 'though I believe there
are not any two specifick propositions of any sort in which we exactly agree. But the general
mass of sense and sociality, literature and religion, in each of us, produces two given quantities,
which unite and effervesce wonderfully well. I know few men I would go farther to serve than
Jack Lee.' Letter to the People of Scotland, p. 75. Lord Eldon said that Lee, in the debates
upon the India Bill, speaking of the charter of the East India Company, 'expressed his surprise
that there could be such political strife about what he called "a piece of parchment, with
a bit of wax dangling to it." This most improvident expression uttered by a Crown lawyer formed
the subject of comment and reproach in all the subsequent debates, in all publications of the
times, and in everybody's conversation.' Twiss's Eldon, iii. 97. In the debate on Fox's India
Bill on Dec. 3, 1783, Lee 'asked what was the consideration of a charter, a skin of parchment
with a waxed seal at the corner, compared to the happiness of thirty millions of subjects,
and the preservation of a mighty empire.' Parl. Hist. xxiv. 49. See Twiss's Eldon, i. 106-9,
and 131, for anecdotes of Lee; and ante, ii. 48, note 1.

[631] 'For now we see through a glass darkly; but then face to face.' I Corinthians, xiii. 12.

[632] Goldsmith notices this in the Haunch of Venison:--

My friend bade me welcome, but struck me quite dumb With tidings that Johnson and Burke would
not come; For I knew it (he cried), both eternally fail, The one with his speeches, and t'other
with Thrale.'

CROKER. See ante, i. 493.

[633] See post, April 1, 1781. 'Johnson said:--"He who praises everybody praises nobody."'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 216.

[634] See ante, p. 55.

[635] Johnson wrote in July 1775:--'Everybody says the prospect of harvest is uncommonly delightful;
but this has been so long the summer talk, and has been so often contradicted by autumn, that
I do not suffer it to lay much hold on my mind. Our gay prospects have now for many years together
ended in melancholy retrospects.' Piozzi Letters, i. 259. On Aug. 27, 1777, he wrote:--'Amidst
all these little things there is one great thing. The harvest is abundant, and the weather
a la merveille. No season ever was finer.' Ib. p. 360. In this month of March, 1778, wheat
was selling at 5s. 3d. the bushel in London; at 6s. 10d. in Somerset; and at 5s. 1d. in Northumberland,
Suffolk, and Sussex. Gent. Mag. xlviii. 98. The average price for 1778 was 5s. 3d. Ann. Reg.
xxi. 282.

[636] See post, iii. 243, Oct. 10, 1779, and April 1, 1781.

[637] The first edition was in 1492. Between that period and 1792, according to this account,
there were 3600 editions. But this is very improbable. MALONE. Malone assumes, as Mr. Croker
points out, that this rate of publication continued to the year 1792. But after all, the difference
is trifling. Johnson here forgot to use his favourite cure for exaggeration--counting. See
post, April 18, 1783. 'Round numbers,' he said, 'are always false.' Johnson's Works (1787),
xi. 198. Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 300), after making a calculation, writes:--'I may err
in my calculations, for I am a woeful arithmetician; but no matter, one large sum is as good
as another.'

[638] The original passage is: 'Si non potes te talem facere, qualem vis, quomodo poteris alium
ad tuum habere beneplacitum?' De Imit. Christ. lib. i. cap. xvi. J. BOSWELL, Jun.

[639] See p. 29 of this vol. BOSWELL.

[640] Since this was written the attainder has been reversed; and Nicholas Barnewall is now
a peer of Ireland with this title. The person mentioned in the text had studied physick, and
prescribed gratis to the poor. Hence arose the subsequent conversation. MALONE.

[641] See Franklin's Autobiography for his conversion from vegetarianism.

[642] See ante, ii. 217, where Johnson advised Boswell to keep a journal. 'The great thing
to be recorded, is the state of your own mind.'

[643] 'Nobody can live long without knowing that falsehoods of convenience or vanity, falsehoods
from which no evil immediately visible ensues, except the general degradation of human testimony,
are very lightly uttered, and, once uttered, are sullenly supported.' Johnson's Works, viii. 23.

[644] Literary Magazine, 1756, p. 37. BOSWELL. Johnson's Works, vi. 42. See post, Oct. 10, 1779.

[645]

'Quodcunque ostendis mihi sic incredulus odi.' 'For while upon such monstrous scenes we gaze,
They shock our faith, our indignation raise.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Ars Poet. 1. 188. Johnson speaks of 'the natural desire of man to propagate
a wonder.' Works, vii. 2. 'Wonders,' he says, 'are willingly told, and willingly heard.' Ib.
viii. 292. Speaking of Voltaire he says:--'It is the great failing of a strong imagination
to catch greedily at wonders.' Ib. vi. 455. See ante, i. 309, note 3, ii. 247, and Boswell's
Hebrides, Oct. 19, 1773.

It is strange that Boswell should not have discovered that these lines were from Dante. The
following is Wright's translation:--

'That truth which bears the semblance of a lie, Should never pass the lips, if possible; Tho'
crime be absent, still disgrace is nigh.'

Infern. xvi. 124. CROKER.

[647] See ante, i. 7, note 1.

[648] See ante, i. 405.

[649] 'Of John Wesley he said:--"He can talk well on any subject."' Post, April 15, 1778. Southey
says that 'his manners were almost irresistibly winning, and his cheerfulness was like perpetual
sunshine.' Life of Wesley, i. 409. Wesley recorded on Dec. 18, 1783 (Journal, iv. 258):--'I
spent two hours with that great man Dr. Johnson, who is sinking into the grave by a gentle decay.'

[650] 'When you met him in the street of a crowded city, he attracted notice, not only by his
band and cassock, and his long hair white and bright as silver, but by his pace and manner,
both indicating that all his minutes were numbered, and that not one was to be lost. "Though
I am always in haste," he says of himself, "I am never in a hurry; because I never undertake
any more work than I can go through with perfect calmness of spirit."' Southey's Wesley, ii. 397.

[651] No doubt the Literary Club. See ante, ii. 330, 345. Mr. Croker says 'that it appears
by the books of the Club that the company on that evening consisted of Dr. Johnson president,
Mr. Burke, Mr. Boswell, Dr. George Fordyce, Mr. Gibbon, Dr. Johnson (again named), Sir Joshua
Reynolds, Lord Upper Ossory, and Mr. R. B. Sheridan.' E. no doubt stands for Edmund Burke,
and J. for Joshua Reynolds. Who are meant by the other initials cannot be known. Mr. Croker
hazards some guesses; but he says that Sir James Mackintosh and Chalmers were as dubious as
himself.

[652] See Langhorne's Plutarch, ed. 1809, ii. 133.

[653] 'A man came in balancing a straw upon his nose, and the audience were clapping their
hands in all the raptures of applause.' The Citizen of the World, Letter xxi. According to
Davis (Life of Garrick, i. 113), 'in one year, after paying all expenses, L11,000 were the
produce of Mr. Maddocks (the straw-man's agility), added to the talents of the players at Covent
Garden theatre.'

[654] See ante, i. 399.

[655] 'Sir' said Edwards to Johnson (post, April 17, 1778), 'I remember you would not let us
say prodigious at College.'

[656] 'Emigration was at this time a common topick of discourse. Dr. Johnson regretted it as
hurtful to human happiness.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773.

[657] In 1766 Johnson wrote a paper (first published in 1808) to prove that 'the bounty upon
corn has produced plenty.' 'The truth of these principles,' he says, 'our ancestors discovered
by reason, and the French have now found it by experience. In this regulation we have the honour
of being masters to those who, in commercial policy, have been long accounted the masters of
the world.' Works, v. 323, 326, and ante, i. 518. 'In 1688 was granted the parliamentary bounty
upon the exportation of corn. The country gentlemen had felt that the money price of corn was
falling. The bounty was an expedient to raise it artificially to the high price at which it
had frequently been sold in the times of Charles I. and II.' Smith's Wealth of Nations, book
I. c. xi. The year 1792, the last year of peace before the great war, was likewise the last
year of exportation. Penny Cyclo. viii. 22.

Horace Walpole says of Lord Mansfield's speech on the Habeas Corpus Bill of 1758:--'Perhaps
it was the only speech that in my time at least had real effect; that is, convinced many persons.'
Reign of George II, iii. 120.

[659] Gibbon, who was now a member of parliament, was present at this dinner. In his Autobiography
(Misc. But I assisted at the debates of a free assembly; I listened to the attack and defence
of eloquence and reason; I had a near prospect of the character, views, and passions of the
first men of the age.... The eight sessions that I sat in parliament were a school of civil
prudence, the first and most essential virtue of an historian.'

[660] Horace, Odes, iii. 24, 46.

[661] Lord Bolingbroke, who, however detestable as a metaphysician, must be allowed to have
had admirable talents as a political writer, thus describes the House of Commons, in his 'Letter
to Sir William Wyndham:' --'You know the nature of that assembly; they grow, like hounds, fond
of the man who shews them game, and by whose halloo they are used to be encouraged.' BOSWELL.
Bolingbroke's Works, i. 15.

[662] Smollett says (Journey, i. 147) that he had a musquetoon which could carry eight balls.
'This piece did not fail to attract the curiosity and admiration of the people in every place
through which we passed. The carriage no sooner halted than a crowd surrounded the man to view
the blunderbuss, which they dignified with the name of petit canon. At Nuys in Burgundy, he
fired it in the air, and the whole mob dispersed, and scampered off like a flock of sheep.'

[663] Smollett does not say that he frightened the nobleman. He mistook him for a postmaster
and spoke to him very roughly. The nobleman seems to have been good-natured; for, at the next
stage, says Smollett, 'observing that one of the trunks behind was a little displaced, he assisted
my servant in adjusting it.' His name and rank were learnt later on. Journey, i. p. 134.

[664] The two things did not happen in the same town. 'I am sure, writes Thicknesse (Travels,
ii. 147), 'there was but that single French nobleman in this mighty kingdom, who would have
submitted to such insults as the Doctor says he treated him with; nor any other town but Sens
[it was Nuys] where the firing of a gun would have so terrified the inhabitants.'

[665] Both Smollett and Thicknesse were great grumblers.

[666] Lord Bolingbroke said of Lord Oxford:--'He is naturally inclined to believe the worst,
which I take to be a certain mark of a mean spirit and a wicked soul; at least I am sure that
the contrary quality, when it is not due to weakness of understanding, is the fruit of a generous
temper and an honest heart.' Bolingbroke's Works, i. 25. Lord Eldon asked Pitt, not long before
his death, what he thought of the honesty of mankind. 'His answer was, that he had a favourable
opinion of mankind upon the whole, and that he believed that the majority was really actuated
by fair meaning and intention.' Twiss's Eldon, i. 499.

[668] Johnson thirty-four years earlier, in the Life of Savage (Works, viii. 188), had written:--'The
knowledge of life was indeed his chief attainment; and it is not without some satisfaction
that I can produce the suffrage of Savage in favour of human nature.' On April 14, 1781, he
wrote:--'The world is not so unjust or unkind as it is peevishly represented. Those who deserve
well seldom fail to receive from others such services as they can perform; but few have much
in their power, or are so stationed as to have great leisure from their own affairs, and kindness
must be commonly the exuberance of content. The wretched have no compassion; they can do good
only from strong principles of duty.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 199.

[669] Pope thus introduces this story:

'Faith in such case if you should prosecute, I think Sir Godfrey should decide the suit, Who
send the thief who [that] stole the cash away, And punish'd him that put it in his way.'

Imitations of Horace, book II. epist. ii. [l. 23]. BOSWELL.

[670] Very likely Boswell himself. See post, July 17, 1779, where he put Johnson's friendship
to the test by neglecting to write to him.

[671] No doubt Dr. Barnard, Dean of Derry, afterwards Bishop of Killaloe. See ante, p. 84.

[672] The reverse of the story of Combabus, on which Mr. David Hume told Lord Macartney, that
a friend of his had written a tragedy. It is, however, possible that I may have been inaccurate
in my perception of what Dr. Johnson related, and that he may have been talking of the same
ludicrous tragical subject that Mr. Hume had mentioned. BOSWELL. The story of Combabus, which
was originally told by Lucian, may be found in Bayle's Dictionary. MALONE.

[673] Horace Walpole, less than three months later, wrote (Letters, vii. 83):--'Poor Mrs. Clive
has been robbed again in her own lane [in Twickenham] as she was last year. I don't make a
visit without a blunderbuss; one might as well be invaded by the French.' Yet Wesley in the
previous December, speaking of highwaymen, records (Journal, iv. 110):--'I have travelled all
roads by day and by night for these forty years, and never was interrupted yet.' Baretti, who
was a great traveller, says:--'For my part I never met with any robbers in my various rambles
through several regions of Europe.' Baretti's Journey from London to Genoa, ii. 266.

[674] A year or two before Johnson became acquainted with the Thrales a man was hanged on Kennington
Common for robbing Mr. Thrale. Gent. Mag. xxxiii. 411.

[675] The late Duke of Montrose was generally said to have been uneasy on that account; but
I can contradict the report from his Grace's own authority. As he used to admit me to very
easy conversation with him, I took the liberty to introduce the subject. His Grace told me,
that when riding one night near London, he was attacked by two highwaymen on horseback, and
that he instantly shot one of them, upon which the other galloped off; that his servant, who
was very well mounted, proposed to pursue him and take him, but that his Grace said, 'No, we
have had blood enough: I hope the man may live to repent.' His Grace, upon my presuming to
put the question, assured me, that his mind was not at all clouded by what he had thus done
in self-defence. BOSWELL.

[676] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22, for a discussion on signing death-warrants.

[677] 'Mr. Dunning the great lawyer,' Johnson called him, ante, p. 128. Lord Shelburne says:--'The
fact is well known of the present Chief Justice of the Common Pleas (Lord Loughborough, formerly
Mr. Wedderburne) beginning a law argument in the absence of Mr. Dunning, but upon hearing him
hem in the course of it, his tone so visibly [sic] changed that there was not a doubt in any
part of the House of the reason of it.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, iii. 454.

[678] 'The applause of a single human being,' he once said, 'is of great consequence.' Post,
1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[679] Most likely Boswell's father, for he answers to what is said of this person. He was known
to Johnson, he had married a second time, and he was fond of planting, and entertained schemes
for the improvement of his property. See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 4 and 5, 1773. Respectable
was still a term of high praise. It had not yet come down to signify 'a man who keeps a gig.'
Johnson defines it as 'venerable, meriting respect.' It is not in the earlier editions of his
Dictionary. Boswell, in his Hebrides (Oct. 27), calls Johnson the Duke of Argyle's 'respectable
guest,' and post, under Sept. 5, 1780, writes of 'the respectable notion which should ever
be entertained of my illustrious friend.' Dr. Franklin in a dedication to Johnson describes
himself as 'a sincere admirer of his respectable talents;' post, end of 1780. In the Gent.
Mag. lv. 235, we read that 'a stone now covers the grave which holds his [Dr. Johnson's] respectable
remains.' 'I do not know,' wrote Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 43) of Hampton Court, 'a more respectable
sight than a room containing fourteen admirals, all by Sir Godfrey.' Gibbon (Misc. Works, ii.
487), congratulating Lord Loughborough on becoming Lord Chancellor, speaks of the support the
administration will derive 'from so respectable an ally.' George III. wrote to Lord Shelburne
on Sept. 16, 1782, 'when the tie between the Colonies and England was about to be formally
severed,' that he made 'the most frequent prayers to heaven to guide me so to act that posterity
may not lay the downfall of this once respectable empire at my door.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne,
iii. 297. Lord Chesterfield (Misc. Works, iv. 308) writing of the hour of death says:--'That
moment is at least a very respectable one, let people who boast of not fearing it say what
they please.'

[680] The younger Newbery records that Johnson, finding that he had a violin, said to him:--'Young
man, give the fiddle to the first beggar man you meet, or you will never be a scholar.' A Bookseller
of the Last Century, pp. 127, 145. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 15.

[681] When I told this to Miss Seward, she smiled, and repeated, with admirable readiness,
from Acis and Galatea,

'Bring me a hundred reeds of ample growth, To make a pipe for my CAPACIOUS MOUTH.' BOSWELL.

[682] See post, June 3, 1784, where Johnson again mentions this. In The Spectator, No. 536,
Addison recommends knotting, which was, he says, again in fashion, as an employment for 'the
most idle part of the kingdom; I mean that part of mankind who are known by the name of the
women's-men, or beaus,' etc. In The Universal Passion, Satire i, Young says of fame:--

'By this inspired (O ne'er to be forgot!) Some lords have learned to spell, and some to knot.'

Lord Eldon says that 'at a period when all ladies were employed (when they had nothing better
to do) in knotting, Bishop Porteous was asked by the Queen, whether she might knot on a Sunday.
He answered, "You may not;" leaving her Majesty to decide whether, as knot and not were in
sound alike, she was, or was not, at liberty to do so.' Twiss's Eldon, ii. 355.

[683] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23.

[684] See post, p. 248.

[685] Martin's style is wanting in that 'cadence which Temple gave to English prose' (post,
p. 257). It would not be judged now so severely as it was a century ago, as the following instance
will show:--'There is but one steel and tinder-box in all this commonwealth; the owner whereof
fails not upon every occasion of striking fire in the lesser isles, to go thither, and exact
three eggs, or one of the lesser fowls from each man as a reward for his service; this by them
is called the Fire-Penny, and this Capitation is very uneasy to them; I bid them try their
chrystal with their knives, which, when they saw it did strike fire, they were not a little
astonished, admiring at the strangeness of the thing, and at the same time accusing their own
ignorance, considering the quantity of chrystal growing under the rock of their coast. This
discovery has delivered them from the Fire-Penny-Tax, and so they are no longer liable to it.'

[686] See ante, p. 226.

[687] Lord Macartney observes upon this passage, 'I have heard him tell many things, which,
though embellished by their mode of narrative, had their foundation in truth; but I never remember
any thing approaching to  this. If he had written it, I should have supposed some wag had put
the figure of one before the three.'--I am, however, absolutely certain that Dr. Campbell told
me it, and I gave particular attention to it, being myself a lover of wine, and therefore curious
to hear whatever is remarkable concerning drinking. There can be no doubt that some men can
drink, without suffering any injury, such a quantity as to others appears incredible. It is
but fair to add, that Dr. Campbell told me, he took a very long time to this great potation;
and I have heard Dr. Johnson say, 'Sir, if a man drinks very slowly, and lets one glass evaporate
before he takes another, I know not how long he may drink.' Dr. Campbell mentioned a Colonel
of Militia who sat with him all the time, and drank equally. BOSWELL.

[688] See ante, i. 417.

[689] In the following September she is thus mentioned by Miss Burney: --'Mrs. Thrale. "To-morrow,
Sir, Mrs. Montagu dines here, and then you will have talk enough." Dr. Johnson began to see-saw,
with a countenance strongly expressive of inward fun, and after enjoying it some time in silence,
he suddenly, and with great animation, turned to me and cried; "Down with her, Burney! down
with her! spare her not! attack her, fight her, and down with her at once! You are a rising
wit, and she is at the top; and when I was beginning the world, and was nothing and nobody,
the joy of my life was to fire at all the established wits, and then everybody loved to halloo
me on."' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 117. 'She has,' adds Miss Burney, 'a sensible and penetrating
countenance and the air and manner of a woman accustomed to being distinguished and of great
parts. Dr. Johnson, who agrees in this, told us that a Mrs. Hervey of his acquaintance says
she can remember Mrs. Montagu trying for this same air and manner.' Ib. p. 122. See ante, ii. 88.

[690] Only one volume had been published; it ended with the sixteenth chapter.

[691] Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 462) says:--'She did not take at Edinburgh. Lord Kames, who
was at first catched with her Parnassian coquetry, said at last that he believed she had as
much learning as a well-educated college lad here of sixteen. In genuine feelings and deeds
she was remarkably deficient. We saw her often in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, and in that
town, where there was no audience for such an actress as she was, her natural character was
displayed, which was that of an active manager of her affairs, a crafty chaperon, and a keen
pursuer of her interest, not to be outdone by the sharpest coal-dealer on the Tyne; but in
this capacity she was not displeasing, for she was not acting a part.'

[692] What my friend meant by these words concerning the amiable philosopher of Salisbury,
I am at a loss to understand. A friend suggests, that Johnson thought his manner as a writer
affected, while at the same time the matter did not compensate for that fault. In short, that
he meant to make a remark quite different from that which a celebrated gentleman made on a
very eminent physician: 'He is a coxcomb, but a satisfactory coxcomb.' BOSWELL. Malone says
that the celebrated gentleman was Gerard Hamilton. See Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 3, where Johnson
says that 'he thought Harris a coxcomb,' and ante, ii. 225.

[693] Hermes.

[694] On the back of the engraving of Johnson in the Common Room of University College is inscribed:--'Samuel
Johnson, LL.D. in hac camera communi frequens conviva. D.D. Gulielmus Scott nuper socius.'
Gulielmus Scott is better known as Lord Stowell. See ante, i. 379, note 2, and iii. 42; and
post, April 17, 1778.

[695] See ante, under March 15, 1776.

[696] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 31.

[697] See ante, p. 176.

[698] See ante, i. 413.

[699] Eminent is the epithet Boswell generally applies to Burke (ante, ii. 222), and Burke
almost certainly is here meant.

[700] Kames describes it as 'an act as wild as any that superstition ever suggested to a distempered
brain.' Sketches, etc. iv. 321.

[701] See ante, p. 243.

[702] 'Queen Caroline,' writes Horace Walpole, 'much wished to make Dr. Clarke a bishop, but
he would not subscribe the articles again. I have often heard my father relate that he sat
up one night at the Palace with the Doctor, till the pages of the backstairs asked if they
would have fresh candles, my father endeavouring to persuade him to subscribe again, as he
had for the living of St. James's. Clarke pretended he had then believed them. "Well," said
Sir Robert, "but if you do not now, you ought to resign your living to some man who would subscribe
conscientiously." The Doctor would neither resign his living nor accept the bishopric.' Journal
of the Reign of George III, i. 8. See ante, i. 398, post, Dec. 1784, where Johnson, on his
death-bed, recommended Clarke's Sermons; and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 5.

[703] Boswell took Ogden's Sermons with him to the Hebrides, but Johnson showed no great eagerness
to read them. See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 15 and 32.

[704] See ante, p. 223.

[705] King Lear, act iii. sc. 4.

[706] The Duke of Marlborough.

[707] See Chappell's Popular Music of the Olden Time, i. 330.

[708] See ante, p. 177.

[709] 'The accounts of Swift's reception in Ireland given by Lord Orrery and Dr. Delany are
so different, that the credit of the writers, both undoubtedly veracious, cannot be saved but
by supposing, what I think is true, that they speak of different times. Johnson's Works, viii.
207. See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. Lord Orrery says that Swift, on his return to Ireland in
1714, 'met with frequent indignities from the populace, and indeed was equally abused by persons
of all ranks and denominations.' Orrery's Remarks on Swift, ed. 1752, p. 60. Dr. Delany says
(Observations, p. 87) that 'Swift, when he came--to take possession of his Deanery (in 1713),
was received with very distinguished respect.'

[710] 'He could practise abstinence,' says Boswell (post, March 20, 1781), 'but not temperance.'

[711] 'The dinner was good, and the Bishop is knowing and conversible,' wrote Johnson of an
earlier dinner at Sir Joshua's where he had met the same bishop. Piozzi Letters, i. 334.

[712] See post, Aug 19, 1784.

[713] There is no mention in the Journey to Brundusium of a brook. Johnson referred, no doubt,
to Epistle I. 16. 12.

[714]

'Ne ought save Tyber hastning to his fall Remaines of all. O world's inconstancie! That which
is firme doth flit and fall away, And that is flitting doth abide and stay.'

Spenser, The Ruines of Rome.

[715] Giano Vitale, to give him his Italian name, was a theologian and poet of Palermo. His
earliest work was published in 1512, and he died about 1560. Brunet, and Zedler's Universal
Lexicon.

[716]

'Albula Romani restat nunc nominis index, Qui quoque nunc rapidis fertur in aequor aquis. Disce
hinc quid possit Fortuna. Immota labascunt, Et quae perpetuo sunt agitata manent.'

Jani Vitalis Panormitani De Roma. See Delicia C.C. Italorum Poetarum, edit. 1608, p. 1433,
It is curious that in all the editions of Boswell that I have seen, the error labescunt remains
unnoticed.

[717] See post, June 2, 1781.

[718] Dr. Shipley was chaplain to the Duke of Cumberland. CROKER. The battle was fought on
July 2, N.S. 1747.

[719]

'Inconstant as the wind I various rove; At Tibur, Rome--at Rome, I Tibur love.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epistles, i. 8. 12. In the first two editions Mr. Cambridge's speech ended here.

[720]

'More constant to myself, I leave with pain, By hateful business forced, the rural scene.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epist., I. 14. 16.

[721] See ante, p. 167.

[722] Fox, it should be remembered, was Johnson's junior by nearly forty years.

[723] See ante, i. 413, ii. 214, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 2.

[724] See ante, i. 478.

[725] 'Who can doubt,' asks Mr. Forster, 'that he also meant slowness of motion? The first
point of the picture is that. The poet is moving slowly, his tardiness of gait measuring the
heaviness of heart, the pensive spirit, the melancholy of which it is the outward expression
and sign.' Forster's Goldsmith, i. 369.

[726] See ante, ii. 5.

[727] Essay on Man, ii. 2.

[728] Gibbon could have illustrated this subject, for not long before he had at Paris been
'introduced,' he said, 'to the best company of both sexes, to the foreign ministers of all
nations, and to the first names and characters of France.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 227. He
says of an earlier visit:--'Alone, in a morning visit, I commonly found the artists and authors
of Paris less vain and more reasonable than in the circles of their equals, with whom they
mingle in the houses of the rich.' Ib. p. 162. Horace Walpole wrote of the Parisians in 1765,
(Letters, iv. 436):--'Their gaiety is not greater than their delicacy--but I will not expatiate.
[He had just described the grossness of the talk of women of the first rank.] Several of the
women are agreeable, and some of the men; but the latter are in general vain and ignorant.

[730] See post, April 28, 1783.

[731] See ante, p. 191.

[732] [Greek: 'gaerusko d aiei polla didaskomenos.'] 'I grow in learning as I grow in years.'
Plutarch, Solon, ch. 31.

[733]

''Tis somewhat to be lord of some small ground In which a lizard may at least turn around.'

Dryden, Juvenal, iii. 230.

[734] Modern characters from Shakespeare. Alphabetically arranged. A New Edition. London, 1778.
It is not a pamphlet but a duodecimo of 88 pages. Some of the lines are very grossly applied.

[735] As You Like it, act iii. sc. 2. The giant's name is Gargantua, not Garagantua. In Modern
Characters (p. 47), the next line also is given:--'Tis a word too great for any mouth of this
age's size.' The lines that Boswell next quotes are not given.

[736] Coriolanus, act iii. sc. 1.

[737] See vol. i. p. 498. BOSWELL.

[738] See ante, ii. 236, where Johnson charges Robertson with verbiage. This word is not in
his Dictionary.

[739] Pope, meeting Bentley at dinner, addressed him thus:--'Dr. Bentley, I ordered my bookseller
to send you your books. I hope you received them.' Bentley, who had purposely avoided saying
anything about Homer, pretended not to understand him, and asked, 'Books! books! what books?'
'My Homer,' replied Pope, 'which you did me the honour to subscribe for.'--'Oh,' said Bentley,
'ay, now I recollect--your translation:--it is a pretty poem, Mr. Pope; but you must not call
it Homer.' Johnson's Works, viii. 336, note.

[740] 'It is certainly the noblest version of poetry which the world has ever seen; and its
publication must therefore be considered as one of the great events in the annals of Learning.'
Ib. p. 256. 'There would never,' said Gray, 'be another translation of the same poem equal
to it.' Gray's Works, ed. 1858, v. 37. Cowper however says, that he and a friend 'compared
Pope's translation throughout with the original. They were not long in discovering that there
is hardly the thing in the world of which Pope was so utterly destitute as a taste for Homer.'
Southey's Cowper, i. 106.

[741] Boswell here repeats what he had heard from Johnson, ante, p. 36.

[742] Swift, in his Preface to Temple's Letters, says:--'It is generally believed that this
author has advanced our English tongue to as great a perfection as it can well bear.' Temple's
Works, i. 226. Hume, in his Essay Of Civil Liberty, wrote in 1742:--'The elegance and propriety
of style have been very much neglected among us. The first polite prose we have was writ by
a man who is still alive (Swift). As to Sprat, Locke, and even Temple, they knew too little
of the rules of art to be esteemed elegant writers.' Mackintosh says (Life, ii. 205):--'Swift
represents Temple as having brought English style to perfection. Hume, I think, mentions him;
but of late he is not often spoken of as one of the reformers of our style--this, however,
he certainly was. The structure of his style is perfectly modern.' Johnson said that he had
partly formed his style upon Temple's; ante, i. 218.

[744] Johnson's addressing himself with a smile to Mr. Harris is explained by a reference to
what Boswell said (ante, p. 245) of Harris's analytic method in his Hermes.

[745] 'Dr. Johnson said of a modern Martial [no doubt Elphinston's], "there are in these verses
too much folly for madness, I think, and too much madness for folly."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 61.
Burns wrote on it the following epigram:--

'O thou whom Poetry abhors, Whom Prose has turned out of doors, Heard'st thou that groan--proceed
no further, 'Twas laurell'd. Martial roaring murder.'

For Mr. Elphinston see ante, i. 210.

[746] It was called The Siege of Aleppo. Mr. Hawkins, the authour of it, was formerly Professor
of Poetry at Oxford. It is printed in his Miscellanies, 3 vols. octavo. BOSWELL. 'Hughes's
last work was his tragedy, The Siege of Damascus, after which a Siege became a popular title.'
Johnson's Works, vii. 477. See ante, i. 75, note 2. Hannah More (Memoirs, i. 200) mentions
another Siege by a Mrs. B. This lady asked Johnson to 'look over her Siege of Sinope; he always
found means to evade it. At last she pressed him so closely that he refused to do it, and told
her that she herself, by carefully looking it over, would be able to see if there was anything
amiss as well as he could. "But, Sir," said she, "I have no time. I have already so many irons
in the fire." "Why then, Madame," said he, quite out of patience, "the best thing I can advise
you to do is to put your tragedy along with your irons."' Mrs. B. was Mrs. Brooke. See Baker's
Biog. Dram. iii. 273, where no less than thirty-seven Sieges are enumerated.

[747] That the story was true is shewn by the Garrick Corres. ii. 6. Hawkins wrote to Garrick
in 1774:--'You rejected my Siege of Aleppo because it was "wrong in the first concoction,"
as you said.' He added that his play 'was honoured with the entire approbation of Judge Blackstone
and Mr. Johnson.'

[748] The manager of Covent Garden Theatre.

[749] Hawkins wrote:--'In short, Sir, the world will be a proper judge whether I have been
candidly treated by you.' Garrick, in his reply, did not make the impertinent offer which he
here boasts of. Hawkins lived in Dorsetshire, not in Devonshire; as he reminds Garrick who
had misdirected his letter. Garrick Corres. ii. 7-11.

[750] See ante, i. 433.

[751] 'BOSWELL. "Beauclerk has a keenness of mind which is very uncommon." JOHNSON. "Yes, Sir;
and everything comes from him so easily. It appears to me that I labour, when I say a good
thing." BOSWELL. "You are loud, Sir, but it is not an effort of mind."' Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 21. See post, under May 2, 1780.

[752] Boswell seems to imply that he showed Johnson, or at least read to him, a portion of
his journal. Most of his Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides had been read by him. Boswell's
Hebrides, Aug. 18, and Oct. 26.

[753] Hannah More wrote of this evening (Memoirs, i. 146):--'Garrick put Johnson into such
good spirits that I never knew him so entertaining or more instructive. He was as brilliant
as himself, and as good-humoured as any one else.'

[754] He was, perhaps, more steadily under Johnson than under any else. In his own words he
was 'of Johnson's school.' (Ante, p. 230). Gibbon calls Johnson Reynolds's oracle. Gibbon's
Misc. Works, i. 149.

[755] Boswell never mentions Sir John Scott (Lord Eldon) who knew Johnson (ante, ii. 268),
and who was Solicitor-General when the Life of Johnson was published. Boswell perhaps never
forgave him the trick that he and others played him at the Lancaster Assizes about the years
1786-8. 'We found,' said Eldon, 'Jemmy Boswell lying upon the pavement--inebriated. He sent
all round the town to attornies for books, but in vain. He moved however for the writ, making
the best use he could of the observations in the brief. Boswell wrote to Temple in 1789:--'I
hesitate as to going the Spring Northern Circuit, which costs L50, and obliges me to be in
rough, unpleasant company four weeks.' Letters of Boswell, p. 274. See ante, ii. 191, note 2.

[756] 'Johnson, in accounting for the courage of our common people, said (Works, vi. 151):--'It
proceeds from that dissolution of dependence which obliges every man to regard his own character.
While every man is fed by his own hands, he has no need of any servile arts; he may always
have wages for his labour, and is no less necessary to his employer than his employer is to him.'

[757] He says of a laird's tenants:--'Since the islanders no longer content to live have learned
the desire of growing rich, an ancient dependant is in danger of giving way to a higher bidder,
at the expense of domestick dignity and hereditary power. The stranger, whose money buys him
preference, considers himself as paying for all that he has, and is indifferent about the laird's
honour or safety. The commodiousness of money is indeed great; but there are some advantages
which money cannot buy, and which therefore no wise man will by the love of money be tempted
to forego.' Ib. ix. 83.

[758] 'Every old man complains ... of the petulance and insolence of the rising generation.
He recounts the decency and regularity of former times, and celebrates the discipline and sobriety
of the age in which his youth was passed; a happy age, which is now no more to be expected,
since confusion has broken in upon the world, and thrown down all the boundaries of civility
and reverence.' The Rambler, No. 50. 227.

[761]

'Fortunam reverenter habe, quicumque repente Dives ab exili progrediere loco.'

Ausonius, Epigrammata, viii. 7.

Stockdale records (Memoirs, ii. 186), that Johnson said to him:--'Garrick has undoubtedly the
merit of an unassuming behaviour; for more pains have been taken to spoil that fellow than
if he had been heir apparent to the Empire of India.'

[762] A lively account of Quin is given in Humphry Clinker, in the letters of April 30 and May 6.

[763] See ante, i. 216.

[764] A few days earlier Garrick wrote to a friend:--'I did not hear till last night that your
friends have generously contributed to your and their own happiness. No one can more rejoice
at this circumstance than I do; and as I hope we shall have a bonfire upon the occasion, I
beg that you will light it with the inclosed.' The inclosed was a bond for L280. Garrick Corres.
ii. 297. Murphy says:--'Dr. Johnson often said that, when he saw a worthy family in distress,
it was his custom to collect charity among such of his friends as he knew to be affluent; and
on those occasions he received from Garrick more than from any other person, and always more
than he expected.' Life of Garrick, p. 378. See ante, p. 70, and post, April 24, 1779. A passage
in Johnson's answer to Hanway's Essay on Tea (ante, i. 314) shews that tea was generally made
very weak. 'Three cups,' he says, 'make the common quantity, so slightly impregnated that,
perhaps, they might be tinged with the Athenian cicuta, and produce less effects than these
letters charge upon tea.' Works, vi. 24.

[766] To Garrick might be applied what Johnson said of Swift:--'He was frugal by inclination,
but liberal by principle.' Works, viii. 222.

[767] See post, under March 30, 1783. In Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, ii. 329, is a paper by Lord
Shelburne in which are very clearly laid down rules of economy--rules which, to quote his own
words (p. 337), 'require little, if any, more power of mind, than to be sure to put on a clean
shirt every day.' Boswell records (Hebrides, Aug. 18) that Johnson said:--'If a man is not
of a sluggish mind, he may be his own steward.'

[768] 'Lady Macbeth urges the excellence and dignity of courage, a glittering idea which has
dazzled mankind from age to age, and animated sometimes the housebreaker, and sometimes the
conqueror.' Johnson's Works, v. 69.

[769] Smollett, who had been a ship's doctor, describes the hospital in a man-of-war:--'Here
I saw about fifty miserable distempered wretches, suspended in rows, so huddled one upon another,
that not more than fourteen inches space was allotted for each with his bed and bedding; and
deprived of the light of the day as well as of fresh air; breathing nothing but a noisome atmosphere
... devoured with vermin.' &c. The doctor, when visiting the sick, 'thrust his wig in his pocket,
and stript himself to his waistcoat; then creeping on all fours under their hammocks, and forcing
up his bare pate between two, kept them asunder with one shoulder until he had done his duty.'
Roderick Random, i. ch. 25 and 26.

[770] See ante, ii. 339.

[771] 'The qualities which commonly make an army formidable are long habits of regularity,
great exactness of discipline, and great confidence in the commander ... But the English troops
have none of these requisites in any eminent degree. Regularity is by no means part of their
character.' Johnson's Works, vi. 150.

[772] See ante, i. 348.

[773] In the Marmor Norfolciense (Works, vi. 101) he describes the soldier as 'a red animal,
that ranges uncontrolled over the country, and devours the labours of the trader and the husbandman;
that carries with it corruption, rapine, pollution, and devastation; that threatens without
courage, robs without fear, and is pampered without labour.' In The Idler, No. 21, he makes
an imaginary correspondent say:--'I passed some years in the most contemptible of all human
stations, that of a soldier in time of peace.' 'Soldiers, in time of peace,' he continues,
'long to be delivered from the tyranny of idleness, and restored to the dignity of active beings.'
Ib. No. 30, he writes:--'Among the calamities of war may be justly numbered the diminution
of the love of truth by the falsehoods which interest dictates, and credulity encourages. A
peace will equally leave the warriour and relater of wars destitute of employment; and I know
not whether more is to be dreaded from streets filled with soldiers accustomed to plunder,
or from garrets filled with scribblers accustomed to lie.' Many years later he wrote (Works,
viii. 396):--'West continued some time in the army; though it is reasonable to suppose that
he never sunk into a mere soldier, nor ever lost the love, or much neglected the pursuit of
learning.'

[774] See ante, p. 9.

[775] See post, March 21, 1783.

[776] The reference seems to be to a passage in Plutarch's Alcibiades, where Phaeax is thus
described:--'He seemed fitter for soliciting and persuading in private than for stemming the
torrent of a public debate; in short, he was one of those of whom Eupolis says:--"True he can
talk, and yet he is no speaker."' Langhome's Plutarch, ed. 1809, ii. 137. How the quotation
was applied is a matter only for conjecture.

[778] See ante, i. 406.

[779] See ante, March 25, 1776.

[780] In the Gent. Mag. for 1776, p. 382, this hulk seems to be mentioned:--'The felons sentenced
under the new convict-act began to work in clearing the bed of the Thames about two miles below
Barking Creek. In the vessel wherein they work there is a room abaft in which they are to sleep,
and in the forecastle a kind of cabin for the overseer.' Ib. p. 254, there is an admirable
paper, very likely by Bentham, on the punishment of convicts, which Johnson might have read
with advantage.

[781] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 25.

[782] Malone says that he had in vain examined Dodsley's Collection for the verses. My search
has been equally in vain.

[783] Johnson (Works, vii. 373) praises Smith's 'excellent Latin ode on the death of the great
Orientalist, Dr. Pocock.' He says that he does not know 'where to find it equalled among the
modern writers.' See ante, ii. 187, note 3.

[784] See ante, p. 7.

[785] See post, April 15, 1781.

[786] See ante, ii. 224.

[787] 'Thus commending myself and my eternal concerns into thy most faithful hands, in firm
hope of a happy reception into thy kingdom; Oh! my God! hear me, while I humbly extend my supplications
for others; and pray that thou wouldst bless the King and all his family; that thou wouldst
preserve the crown to his house to endless generations.' Dodd's Last Prayer, p. 132.

[788] See ante, iii. 166.

[789] See ante, i. 413.

[790] 'I never knew,' wrote Davies of Johnson, 'any man but one who had the honour and courage
to confess that he had a tincture of envy in him. He, indeed, generously owned that he was
not a stranger to it; at the same time he declared that he endeavoured to subdue it.' Davies's
Garrick, ii. 391.

[791] Reynolds said that Johnson, 'after the heat of contest was over, if he had been informed
that his antagonist resented his rudeness, was the first to seek after a reconcilation.' Taylor's
Reynolds, 11. 457. See ante, 11. 109.

[792] Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides, edit. 3, p. 221 [Sept. 17]. BOSWELL.

[793] See this accurately stated, and the descent of his family from the Earls of Northumberland
clearly deduced in the Reverend Dr. Nash's excellent History of Worcestershire, vol. ii. p.
318. The Doctor has subjoined a note, in which he says, 'The Editor hath Seen and carefully
examined the proofs of all the particulars above-mentioned, now in the possession of the Reverend
Thomas Percy.' The same proofs I have also myself carefully examined, and have seen some additional
proofs which have occurred since the Doctor's book was published; and both as a Lawyer accustomed
to the consideration of evidence, and as a Genealogist versed in the study of pedigrees, I
am fully satisfied. I cannot help observing, as a circumstance of no small moment, that in
tracing the Bishop of Dromore's genealogy, essential aid was given by the late Elizabeth Duchess
of Northumberland, Heiress of that illustrious House; a lady not only of high dignity of spirit,
such as became her noble blood, but of excellent understanding and lively talents. With a fair
pride I can boast of the honour of her Grace's correspondence, specimens of which adorn my
archives. BOSWELL.

[794] 'The gardens are trim to the highest degree, and more adapted to a villa near London
than the ancient seat of a great Baron. In a word, nothing except the numbers of unindustrious
poor that swarm at the gate excites any one idea of its former circumstances.' Pennant's Scotland,
p. 31.

[795] Mr. Croker quotes a passage from The Heroic Epistle, which ends:--

'So when some John his dull invention racks To rival Boodle's dinners, or Almack's, Three uncouth
legs of mutton shock our eyes, Three roasted geese, three buttered apple pies.'

[796] Johnson saw Alnwick on his way to Scotland. 'We came to Alnwick,' he wrote, 'where we
were treated with great civility by the Duke: I went through the apartments, walked on the
wall, and climbed the towers.' Piozzi Letters, i. 108.

[797] 'When Reynolds painted his portrait looking into the slit of his pen and holding it almost
close to his eye, as was his custom, he felt displeased, and told me he would not be known
by posterity for his defects only, let Sir Joshua do his worst. I said that the picture in
the room where we were talking represented Sir Joshua holding his ear in his hand to catch
the sound. "He may paint himself as deaf, if he chooses," replied Johnson, "but I will not
be blinking Sam."' Piozzi's Anec. p. 248.

[798] 'You look in vain for the helmet on the tower, the ancient signal of hospitality to the
traveller, or for the grey-headed porter to conduct him to the hall of entertainment. Instead
of the disinterested usher of the old times, he is attended by a valet to receive the fees
of admittance.' Pennant's Scottland, p. 32.

[799] It certainly was a custom, as appears from the following passage in Perce-forest, vol.
iii. p. 108:--'Fasoient mettre au plus hault de leur hostel un heaulme, en signe que tous les
gentils hommes et gentilles femmes entrassent hardiment en leur hostel comme en leur propre.'
KEARNEY.

[800] The title of a book translated by Dr. Percy. BOSWELL. It is a translation of the introduction
to l'Histoire de Danemarck, par M. Mallet. Lowndes's Bibl. Man. ed. 1871, p. 1458.

[801] He was a Welshman.

[802] This is the common cant against faithful Biography. Does the worthy gentleman mean that
I, who was taught discrimination of character by Johnson, should have omitted his frailties,
and, in short, have bedawbed him as the worthy gentleman has bedawbed Scotland? BOSWELL.

[803] See Dr. Johnson's Journey to the Western Islands, 296 [Works, ix. 124];--see his Dictionary
article, oats:--and my Voyage to the Hebrides, first edition. PENNANT.

[804] Mr. Boswell's Journal, p. 286, [third edition, p. 146, Sep. 6.] PENNANT.

[805] See ante, ii. 60.

[806] Percy, it should seem, took offence later on. Cradock (Memoirs, i. 206) says:--'Almost
the last time I ever saw Johnson [it was in 1784] he said to me:--"Notwithstanding all the
pains that Dr. Farmer and I took to serve Dr. Percy in regard to his Ancient Ballads, he has
left town for Ireland without taking leave of either of us."' Cradock adds (p. 238) that though
'Percy was a most pleasing companion, yet there was a violence in his temper which could not
always be controlled.' 'I was witness,' he writes (p. 206), 'to an entire separation between
Percy and Goldsmith about Rowley's [Chatterton's] poems.'

[807] Sunday, April 12, 1778. BOSWELL.

[808] Johnson, writing of the uncertainty of friendship, says: 'A dispute begun in jest upon
a subject which, a moment before, was on both sides regarded with careless indifference, is
continued by the desire of conquest, till vanity kindles into rage, and opposition rankles
into enmity. Against this hasty mischief I know not what security can be obtained; men will
be sometimes surprised into quarrels.' The Idler, No. 23. See ante, ii. 100, note 1.

[809] Though the Bishop of Dromore kindly answered the letters which I wrote to him, relative
to Dr. Johnson's early history; yet, in justice to him, I think it proper to add, that the
account of the foregoing conversation and the subsequent transaction, as well as some other
conversations in which he is mentioned, has been given to the publick without previous communication
with his Lordship. BOSWELL. This note is first given in the second edition, being added, no
doubt, at the Bishop's request.

[810] See post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[811] Chap. xlii. is still shorter:--'Concerning Owls.

'There are no owls of any kind in the whole island.'

Horrebow says in his Preface, p. vii:--'I have followed Mr. Anderson article by article, declaring
what is false in each.' A Member of the Icelandic Literary Society in a letter to the Pall
Mall Gazette, dated May 3, 1883, thus accounts for these chapters:--'In 1746 there was published
at Hamburg a small volume entitled, Nachrichlen von Island, Groenland und der Strasse Davis.
The Danish Government, conceiving that its intentions were misrepresented by this work, procured
a reply to be written by Niels Horrebow, and this was published, in 1752, under the title of
Tilforladelige Efterretninger om Island; in 1758, an English translation appeared in London.
The object of the author was to answer all Anderson's charges and imputations. This Horrebow
did categorically, and hence come these Chapters, though it must be added that they owe their
laconic celebrity to the English translator, the author being rather profuse than otherwise
in giving his predecessor a flat denial.'

[812] See ante, p. 255.

[813] 'A fugitive from heaven and prayer,

I mocked at all religious fear,
  Deep scienced in the mazy lore
Of mad philosophy: but now
Hoist sail, and back my voyage plough
  To that blest harbour which I left before.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Odes, i. 34. 1.

[814] See ante, i. 315, and post, p. 288.

[815] Ovid, Meta. ii. 13.

[816] Johnson says (Works, viii. 355):--'The greater part of mankind have no character at all,
have little that distinguishes them from others equally good or bad.' It would seem to follow
that the greater part of mankind have no style at all, for it is in character that style takes
its spring.

[817] 'Dodd's wish to be received into our society was conveyed to us only by a whisper, and
that being the case all opposition to his admission became unnecessary.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 435.

[818] See note, vol. iii. p. 106. BOSWELL. See post, p. 290, for Johnson's violence against
the Americans and those who sided with them.

[819] The friend was Mr. Steevens. Garrick says (Corres. ii. 361) that Steevens had written
things in the newspapers against him that were slanderous, and then had assured him upon his
word and honour that he had not written them; that he had later on bragged that he had written
them, and had said, 'that it was fun to vex me.' Garrick adds:--'I was resolved to keep no
terms with him, and will always treat him as such a pest of society merits from all men.' 'Steevens,
Dr. Parr used to say, had only three friends--himself, Dr. Farmer, and John Reed, so hateful
was his character. He was one of the wisest, most learned, but most spiteful of men.' Johnstone's
Parr, viii. 128. Boswell had felt Steevens's ill-nature. While he was carrying the Life of
Johnson through the press, at a time when he was suffering from 'the most woeful return of
melancholy,' he wrote to Malone,--'Jan 29, 1791. Steevens kindly tells me that I have over-printed,
and that the curiosity about Johnson is now only in our own circle.... Feb. 25. You must know
that I am certainly informed that a certain person who delights in mischief has been depreciating
my book, so that I fear the sale of it may be very dubious.' Croker's Boswell, p. 828. A certain
person was, no doubt, Steevens. See ante, ii. 375, and post, under March 30, 1783, and May
15, 1784.

[820]

'I own th' indulgence--Such I give and take.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Ars Poet. 1. II.

[821]

'We grant, altho' he had much wit, H' was very shy of using it, As being loth to wear it out.'

Hudibras, i. I. 45.

[822] 'Among the sentiments which almost every man changes as he advances into years is the
expectation of uniformity of character.' The Rambler, No. 70. See ante, i. 161, note 2.

[823] See ante, iii. 55.

[824] After this follows a line which Boswell has omitted:--'Then rises fresh, pursues his
wonted game.' Cato, act i. sc. 4.

[825] Boswell was right, and Oglethorpe wrong; the exclamation in Suetonius is, 'Utinam populus
Romanus unam cervicem haberet.' Calig. xxx.--CROKER.

[826] 'Macaroon (macarone, Italian), a coarse, rude, low fellow; whence, macaronick poetry,
in which the language is purposely corrupted.' Johnson's Dictionary. 'Macaroni, probably from
old Italian maccare, to bruise, to batter, to pester; Derivative, macaronic, i.e. in a confused
or mixed state (applied to a jumble of languages).' Skeat's Etymological Diet.

[827] Polemo-middinia, as the Commentator explains, is Proelium in sterquilinio commissum.
In the opening lines the poet thus calls on the Skipperii, or Skippers:--

'Linquite skellatas botas, shippasque picatas, Whistlantesque simul fechtam memorate blodeam,
Fechtam terribilem, quam marvellaverat omnis Banda Deum, quoque Nympharum Cockelshelearum.'

[828] In Best's Memorials, p. 63, is given another of these lines that Mr. Langton repeated:--'Five-poundon
elendeto, ah! mala simplos.' For Joshua Barnes see post, 1780, in Mr. Langton's Collection.

[829] See ante, iii. 78.

[830] Dr. Johnson, describing her needle-work in one of his letters to Mrs. Thrale, vol. i.
p. 326, uses the learned word sutile; which Mrs. Thrale has mistaken, and made the phrase injurious
by writing 'futile pictures.' BOSWELL. See post, p. 299.

[831] See ante, ii. 252, note 2.

[832] The revolution of 1772. The book was published in 1778. Charles Sheridan was the elder
brother of R.B. Sheridan.

[833] See ante, i. 467.

[834] As Physicians are called the Faculty, and Counsellors at Law the Profession; the Booksellers
of London are denominated the Trade. Johnson disapproved of these denominations. BOSWELL. Johnson
himself once used this 'denomination.' Ante, i. 438.

[835] See ante, ii. 385.

[836] A translation of these forged letters which were written by M. de Caraccioli was published
in 1776. By the Gent. Mag. (xlvi. 563) they were accepted as genuine. In The Ann. Reg. for
the same year (xix. 185) was published a translation the letter in which Voltaire had attacked
their authenticity. The passage that Johnson quotes is the following:--'On est en droit de
lui dire ce qu'on dit autrefois a l'abbe Nodot: "Montrez-nous votre manuscript de Petrone,
trouve a Belgrade, ou consentez a n'etre cru of de personne."' Voltaire's Works, xliii. 544.

[837] Baretti (Journey from London to Genoa, i. 9) says that he saw in 1760, near Honiton,
at a small rivulet, 'an engine called a ducking-stool; a kind of armed wooden chair, fixed
on the extremity of a pole about fifteen feet long. The pole is horizontally placed on a post
just by the water, and loosely pegged to that post; so that by raising it at one end, you lower
the stool down into the midst of the river. That stool serves at present to duck scolds and
termagants.'

[838] 'An two men ride of a horse, one must ride behind.' Much Ado about Nothing, act iii. sc. 5.

[839] See ante, ii. 9.

[840] 'One star differeth from another star in glory.' I Cor. xv. 41.

[841] See ante, iii. 48, 280.

[842] 'The physicians in Hogarth's prints are not caricatures: the full dress with a sword
and a great tye-wig, and the hat under the arm, and the doctors in consultation, each smelling
to a gold-headed cane shaped like a parish-beadle's staff, are pictures of real life in his
time, and myself have seen a young physician thus equipped walk the streets of London without
attracting the eyes of passengers.' Hawkins's Johnson, p. 238. Dr. T. Campbell in 1777, writing
of Dublin to a London physician, says:--'No sooner were your medical wigs laid aside than an
attempt was made to do the like here. But in vain.' Survey of the South of Ireland, p. 463.

[843] 'Jenyns,' wrote Malone, on the authority of W.G. Hamilton, 'could not be made without
much labour to comprehend an argument. If however there was anything weak or ridiculous in
what another said, he always laid hold of it and played upon it with success. He looked at
everything with a view to pleasantry alone. This being his grand object, and he being no reasoner,
his best friends were at a loss to know whether his book upon Christianity was serious or ironical.'
Prior's Malone, p. 375.

[844] Jenyns maintains (p. 51) that 'valour, patriotism, and friendship are only fictitious
virtues--in fact no virtue at all.'

[845] He had furnished an answer to this in The Rambler, No. 99, where he says:--'To love all
men is our duty so far as it includes a general habit of benevolence, and readiness of occasional
kindness; but to love all equally is impossible.... The necessities of our condition require
a thousand offices of tenderness, which mere regard for the species will never dictate. Every
man has frequent grievances which only the solicitude of friendship will discover and remedy,
and which would remain for ever unheeded in the mighty heap of human calamity, were it only
surveyed by the eye of general benevolence equally attentive to every misery.' See ante, i.
207, note 1.

[846] Galatians, vi. 10.

[847] St. John, xxi. 20. Compare Jeremy Taylor's Measures and Offices of Friendship, ch. i. 4.

[848] In the first two editions 'from this amiable and pleasing subject.'

[849] Acts of the Apostles, ix. i.

[850] See ante, ii. 82.

[851] If any of my readers are disturbed by this thorny question, I beg leave to recommend,
to them Letter 69 of Montesquieu's Lettres Persanes; and the late Mr. John Palmer of Islington's
Answer to Dr. Priestley's mechanical arguments for what he absurdly calls 'Philosophical Necessity.'
BOSWELL. See post, under Aug. 29, 1783; note.

[852] See ante, ii. 217, and iii. 55.

[853] 'I have proved,' writes Mandeville (Fables of the Bees, ed. 1724, p. 179), 'that the
real pleasures of all men in nature are worldly and sensual, if we judge from their practice;
I say all men in nature, because devout Christians, who alone are to be excepted here, being
regenerated and preternaturally assisted by the divine grace, cannot be said to be in nature.'

[854] Mandeville describes with great force the misery caused by gin-- 'liquid poison' he calls
it--'which in the fag-end and outskirts of the town is sold in some part or other of almost
every house, frequently in cellars, and sometimes in the garret.' He continues:--'The short-sighted
vulgar in the chain of causes seldom can see further than one link; but those who can enlarge
their view may in a hundred places see good spring up and pullulate from evil, as naturally
as chickens do from eggs.' He instances the great gain to the revenue, and to all employed
in the production of the spirit from the husbandman upwards. Fable of the Bees, p. 89.

[855] 'If a miser, who is almost a plum (i.e. worth L100,000, Johnson's Dictionary), and spends
but fifty pounds a year, should be robbed of a thousand guineas, it is certain that as soon
as this money should come to circulate, the nation would be the better for the robbery; yet
justice and the peace of the society require that the robber should be hanged.' Ib. p. 83.

[856] Johnson, in his political economy, seems to have been very much under Mandeville's influence.
Thus in attacking Milton's position that 'a popular government was the most frugal; for the
trappings of a monarchy would set up our ordinary commonwealth,' he says, 'The support and
expense of a court is, for the most part, only a particular kind of traffick, by which money
is circulated, without any national impoverishment.' Works, vii. 116. Mandeville in much the
same way says:--'When a covetous statesman is gone, who spent his whole life in fattening himself
with the spoils of the nation, and had by pinching and plundering heaped up an immense treasure,
it ought to fill every good member of the society with joy to behold the uncommon profuseness
of his son. This is refunding to the public whatever was robbed from it. As long as the nation
has its own back again, we ought not to quarrel with the manner in which the plunder is repaid.'
Ib. p. 104.

[857] See ante, ii. 176. 1836, i. liv), says:--'I should be glad to know the authority of this
assertion.' I infer from this that the passage is not in Brown's Works.

[859] Hannah More: see post, under date of June 30, 1784.

[860] In her visits to London she was commonly the guest of the Garricks. A few months before
this conversation Garrick wrote a prologue and epilogue for her tragedy of Percy. He invested
for her the money that she made by this play. H. More's Memoirs, i. 122, 140.

[861] In April 1784 she records (ib. i. 319) that she called on Johnson shortly after she wrote
Le Bas Bleu. 'As to it,' she continues, 'all the flattery I ever received from everybody together
would not make up his sum. He said there was no name in poetry that might not be glad to own
it. All this from Johnson, that parsimonious praiser!' He wrote of it to Mrs. Thrale on April
19, 1784:--'It is in my opinion a very great performance.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 364. Dr. Beattie
wrote on July 31, 1784:--'Johnson told me with great solemnity that Miss More was "the most
powerful versificatrix" in the English language.' Forbes's Beattie, ed. 1824, p. 320.

[862] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 18.

[863] The ancestor of Mr. Murray of Albemarle Street.

[864] See A Letter to W. Mason, A.M. from J. Murray, Bookseller in London; 2d edition, p. 20.
BOSWELL.

[865] 'The righteous hath hope in his death.' Proverbs, xiv. 32.

[866] See post, June 12, 1784.

[867] Johnson, in The Convict's Address (ante, p. 141), makes Dodd say:--'Possibly it may please
God to afford us some consolation, some secret intimations of acceptance and forgiveness. But
these radiations of favour are not always felt by the sincerest penitents. To the greater part
of those whom angels stand ready to receive, nothing is granted in this world beyond rational
hope; and with hope, founded on promise, we may well be satisfied.'

[868] 'I do not find anything able to reconcile us to death but extreme pain, shame or despair;
for poverty, imprisonment, ill fortune, grief, sickness and old age do generally fail.' Swift's
Works, ed. 1803, xiv. 178.

[869] 'I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith: henceforth
there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness.' 2 Timothy, iv. 7 and 8.

[870] See ante, p. 154.

[871] 'Inde illud Maecenatis turpissimum votum, quo et debilitatem non recusat, et deformitatem,
et novissime acutam crucem dummodo inter haec mala spiritus prorogetur.

"Debilem facito manu, Debilem pede, coxa; Tuber adstrue gibberum, Lubricos quate dentes; Vita
dum superest, bene est; Hanc mihi vel acuta Si sedeam cruce sustine."'

Seneca's Epistles, No. 101.

Dryden makes Gonsalvo say in The Rival Ladies, act iv. sc. 1:--

'For men with horrour dissolution meet, The minutes e'en of painful life are sweet.'

In Paradise Lost Moloch and Belial take opposite sides on this point:--

MOLOCH. 1. 94.

BELIAL.
                  'Who would lose,
Though full of pain, this intellectual being,
Those thoughts that wander through eternity,
To perish rather, swallowed up and lost
In the wide womb of uncreated night,
Devoid of sense and motion?'

1. 146.

Cowper, at times at least, held with Moloch. He wrote to his friend Newton:--'I feel--I will
not tell you what--and yet I must--a wish that I had never been, a wonder that I am, and an
ardent but hopeless desire not to be.' Southey's Cowper, vi. 130. See ante, p. 153, and Boswell's
Hebrides, Sept. 12.

[872] Johnson recorded in Pr. and Med. p. 202:--'At Ashbourne I hope to talk seriously with
Taylor.' Taylor published in 1787 A Letter to Samuel Johnson on the Subject of a Future State.
He writes that 'having heard that Johnson had said that he would prefer a state of torment
to that of annihilation, he told him that such a declaration, coming from him, might be productive
of evil consequences. Dr. J. desired him to arrange his thoughts on the subject.' Taylor says
that Johnson's entry about the serious talk refers to this matter. Gent. Mag. 1787, p. 521.
I believe that Johnson meant to warn Taylor about the danger he was running of 'entering the
state of torment.'

[873] Wesley, like Johnson, was a wide reader. On his journeys he read books of great variety,
such as The Odyssey, Rousseau's Emile, Boswell's Corsica, Swift's Letters, Hoole's Tasso, Robertson's
Charles V., Quintus Curtius, Franklin's Letters on Electricity, besides a host of theological
works. Like Johnson, too, he was a great dabbler in physic and a reader of medical works. His
writings covered a great range. He wrote, he says, among other works, an English, a Latin,
a Greek, a Hebrew, and a French Grammar, a Treatise on Logic and another on Electricity. In
the British Isles he had travelled perhaps more than any man of his time, and he had visited
North America and more than one country of Europe. He had seen an almost infinite variety of
characters. See ante, p. 230.

[874] The story is recorded in Wesley's Journal, ed. 1827, iv. 316. It was at Sunderland and
not at Newcastle where the scene was laid. The ghost did not prophesy ill of the attorney.
On the contrary, it said to the girl:--'Go to Durham, employ an attorney there, and the house
will be recovered.' She went to Durham, 'and put the affair into Mr. Hugill the attorney's
hands.' 'A month after,' according to the girl, 'the ghost came about eleven. I said, "Lord
bless me! what has brought you here again?" He said, "Mr. Hugill has done nothing but wrote
one letter."' On this Wesley writes by way of comment:--'So he [the ghost] had observed him
[the attorney] narrowly, though unseen.' See post, under May 3, 1779.

[875] Johnson, with his horror of annihilation, caught at everything which strengthened his
belief in the immortality of the soul. Boswell mentions ante, ii. 150, 'Johnson's elevated
wish for more and more evidence for spirit,' and records the same desire, post, June 12, 1784.
Southey (Life of Wesley, i. 25) says of supernatural appearances:--'With regard to the good
end which they may be supposed to answer, it would be end sufficient if sometimes one of those
unhappy persons, who looking through the dim glass of infidelity see nothing beyond this life,
and the narrow sphere of mortal existence, should, from the established truth of one such story
(trifling and objectless as it might otherwise appear), be led to a conclusion that there are
more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in their philosophy.' See ante, p. 230,
and post, April 15, 1781.

[876] Miss Jane Harry. In Miss Seward's Letters, i. 97, is an account of her, which Mr. Croker
shows to be inaccurate. There is, too, a long and lifeless report of the talk at this dinner.

[877] See ante, ii. 14, 105.

[878] Mrs. Knowles, not satisfied with the fame of her needlework, the 'sutile pictures' mentioned
by Johnson, in which she has indeed displayed much dexterity, nay, with the fame of reasoning
better than women generally do, as I have fairly shewn her to have done, communicated to me
a Dialogue of considerable length, which after many years had elapsed, she wrote down as having
passed between Dr. Johnson and herself at this interview. As I had not the least recollection
of it, and did not find the smallest trace of it in my Record taken at the time, I could not
in consistency with my firm regard to authenticity, insert it in my work. It has, however,
been published in The Gent. Mag. for June, 1791. It chiefly relates to the principles of the
sect called Quakers; and no doubt the Lady appears to have greatly the advantage of Dr. Johnson
in argument as well as expression. From what I have now stated, and from the internal evidence
of the paper itself, any one who may have the curiosity to peruse it, will judge whether it
was wrong in me to reject it, however willing to gratify Mrs. Knowles. BOSWELL. Johnson mentioned
the 'sutile pictures' in a letter dated May 16, 1776, describing the dinner at Messrs. Dilly's.
'And there,' he wrote, 'was Mrs. Knowles, the Quaker, that works the sutile [misprinted by
Mrs. Piozzi futile] pictures. She is a Staffordshire woman, and I am to go and see her. Staffordshire
is the nursery of art; here they grow up till they are transplanted to London.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 326. He is pleasantly alluding to the fact that he was a Staffordshire man. In the Dialogue
in The Gent. Mag. for 1791, p. 502, Mrs. Knowles says that, the wrangle ended thus:--'Mrs.
K. "I hope, Doctor, thou wilt not remain unforgiving; and that you will renew your friendship,
and joyfully meet at last in those bright regions where pride and prejudice can never enter."
Dr. Johnson. "Meet her! I never desire to meet fools anywhere." This sarcastic turn of wit
was so pleasantly received that the Doctor joined in the laugh; his spleen was dissipated,
he took his coffee, and became, for the remainder of the evening, very cheerful and entertaining.'
Did Miss Austen find here the title of Pride and Prejudice, for her novel?

[879] Of this day he recorded (Pr. and Med. p. 163):--'It has happened this week, as it never
happened in Passion Week before, that I have never dined at home, and I have therefore neither
practised abstinence nor peculiar devotion.'

[880] See ante, iii. 48, note 4.

[881] I believe, however, I shall follow my own opinion; for the world has shewn a very flattering
partiality to my writings, on many occasions. BOSWELL. In Boswelliana, p. 222, Boswell, after
recording a story about Voltaire, adds:--'In contradiction to this story, see in my Journal
the account which Tronchin gave me of Voltaire.' This Journal was probably destroyed by Boswell's
family. By his will, he left his manuscripts and letters to Sir W. Forbes, Mr. Temple, and
Mr. Malone, to be published for the benefit of his younger children as they shall decide. The
Editor of Boswelliana says (p. 186) that 'these three literary executors did not meet, and
the entire business of the trust was administered by Sir W. Forbes, who appointed as his law-agent,
Robert Boswell, cousin-german of the deceased. By that gentleman's advice, Boswell's manuscripts
were left to the disposal of his family; and it is believed that the whole were immediately
destroyed.' The indolence of Malone and Temple, and the brutish ignorance of the Boswells,
have indeed much to answer for. See ante, i. 225, note 2, and post, May 12, 1778.

[882] 'He that would travel for the entertainment of others should remember that the great
object of remark is human life.' The Idler, No. 97.

[883] See ante, ii. 377.

[884] Johnson recorded (Pr. and Med. p. 163):--'Boswell came in to go to Church ... Talk lost
our time, and we came to Church late, at the Second Lesson.'

[885] See ante, i. 461.

[886] Oliver Edwards entered Pembroke College in June, 1729. He left in April, 1730.

[887] Pr. and Med. p. 164. BOSWELL.

[888] 'Edwards observed how many we have outlived. I hope, yet hope, that my future life shall
be better than my past.' Pr. and Med. p. 166.

[889] See post, April 30, 1778.

[890] See ante, p. 221.

[891] 'Don't, Sir, accustom yourself to use big words for little matters.' Ante, i. 471.

[893] See ante, i. 320.

[894] Very near the College, facing the passage which leads to it from Pembroke Street, still
stands an old alehouse which must have been old in Johnson's time.

[895] This line has frequently been attributed to Dryden, when a King's Scholar at Westminster.
But neither Eton nor Westminster have in truth any claim to it, the line being borrowed, with
a slight change, from an Epigram by Crashaw:--

'Joann. 2,

'Aquae in vinum versae. Unde rubor vestris et non sua purpura lymphis? Qua rosa mirantes tam
nova mutat aquas? Numen, convinvae, praesens agnoscite numen, Nympha pudica DEUM vidit, et
erubuit.' MALONE.

What gave your springs a brightness not their own? What rose so strange the wond'ring waters
flushed? Heaven's hand, oh guests; heaven's hand may here be known; The spring's coy nymph
has seen her God and blushed.

[896] 'He that made the verse following (some ascribe it to Giraldus Cambrensis) could adore
both the sun rising, and the sun setting, when he could so cleanly honour King Henry II, then
departed, and King Richard succeeding.

"Mira cano, Sol occubuit, nox nulla sequutaest."'

Camden's Remains (1870), p. 351.

[897] 'When Mr. Hume began to be known in the world as a philosopher, Mr. White, a decent,
rich merchant of London, said to him:--"I am surprised, Mr. Hume, that a man of your good sense
should think of being a philosopher. Why, I now took it into my head to be a philosopher for
some time, but tired of it most confoundedly, and very soon gave it up." "Pray, Sir," said
Mr. Hume, "in what branch of philosophy did you employ your researches? What books did you
read?" "Books?" said Mr. White; "nay sir, I read no books, but I used to sit whole forenoons
a-yawning and poking the fire." Boswelliana, p. 221. The French were more successful than Mr.
Edwards in the pursuit of philosophy, Horace Walpole wrote from Paris in 1766 (Letters, iv.
466):--'The generality of the men, and more than the generality, are dull and empty. They have
taken up gravity, thinking it was philosophy and English, and so have acquired nothing in the
room of their natural levity and cheerfulness.'

[898] See ante, ii. 8.

[899] See ante, i. 332.

[900] See ante, i. 468, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 4.

[901] I am not absolutely sure but this was my own suggestion, though it is truly in the character
of Edwards. BOSWELL.

[902] Sixty-nine. He was born in 1709.

[903] See ante, i. 75, note 1.

[904]

'O my coevals! remnants of yourselves! Poor human ruins, tottering o'er the grave! Shall we,
shall aged men, like aged trees, Strike deeper their vile roots, and closer cling, Still more
enamoured of this wretched soil?'

Young's Night Thoughts, Night iv.

[905] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 20, 1773. According to Mrs. Piozzi 'he liked the expression
so well that he often repeated it.' Piozzi's Anec. p. 208. 166. In Mme. D'Arblay's Diary (ii.
310) we read that 'Dr. Johnson is never his best when there is nobody to draw him out;' and
in her Memoirs of Dr. Burney (ii. 107) she adds that 'the masterly manner in which, as soon
as any topic was started, he seized it in all its bearings, had so much the air of belonging
to the leader of the discourse, that this singularity was unsuspected save by the experienced
observation of long years of acquaintance.' Malone wrote in 1783:--'I have always found him
very communicative; ready to give his opinion on any subject that was mentioned. He seldom,
however, starts a subject himself; but it is very easy to lead him into one.' Prior's Malone,
p. 92. What Dugald Stewart says of Adam Smith (Life, p. 114) was equally true of Johnson:--'He
was scarcely ever known to start a new topic himself, or to appear unprepared upon those topics
that were introduced by others.' Johnson, in his long fits of silence, was perhaps like Cowper,
but when aroused he was altogether unlike. Cowper says of himself:--'The effect of such continual
listening to the language of a heart hopeless and deserted is that I can never give much more
than half my attention to what is started by others, and very rarely start anything myself.'
Southey's Cowper, v. 10.

[906] In summer 1792, additional and more expensive decorations having been introduced, the
price of admission was raised to two shillings. I cannot approve of this. The company may be
more select; but a number of the honest commonalty are, I fear, excluded from sharing in elegant
and innocent entertainment. An attempt to abolish the one-shilling gallery at the playhouse
has been very properly counteracted. BOSWELL.

[907] Regale, as a noun, is not in Johnson's Dictionary. It was a favourite word with Miss Burney.

[908] 'Tyers is described in The Idler, No. 48, under the name of Tom Restless; "a circumstance,"
says Mr. Nichols, "pointed out to me by Dr. Johnson himself."' Lit. Anec. viii. 81. 'When Tom
Restless rises he goes into a coffee-house, where he creeps so near to men whom he takes to
be reasoners, as to hear their discourse, and endeavours to remember something which, when
it has been strained through Tom's head, is so near to nothing, that what it once was cannot
be discovered. This he carries round from friend to friend through a circle of visits, till,
hearing what each says upon the question, he becomes able at dinner to say a little himself;
and as every great genius relaxes himself among his inferiors, meets with some who wonder how
so young a man can talk so wisely.'

[909] 'That accurate judge of human life, Dr. Johnson, has often been heard by me to observe,
that it was the greatest misfortune which could befall a man to have been bred to no profession,
and pathetically to regret that this misfortune was his own.' More's Practical Piety, p. 313.
MARKLAND.

[910] He had wished to study it. See ante, i. 134.

[911] The fourth Earl of Lichfield, the Chancellor of Oxford, died in 1772. The title became
extinct in 1776, on the death of the fifth earl. The present title was created in 1831. Courthope's
Hist. Peerage, p. 286.

[912] See post, March 23, 1783, where Boswell vexed him in much the same way. I attempted in
a newspaper to comment on the above passage, in the manner of Warburton, who must be allowed
to have shewn uncommon ingenuity, in giving to any authour's text whatever meaning he chose
it should carry. [Ante, ii. 37, note 1.] As this imitation may amuse my readers, I shall here
introduce it:--

'No saying of Dr. Johnson's has been more misunderstood than his applying to Mr. Burke when
he first saw him at his fine place at Beaconsfield, Non equidem invideo; miror magis. These
two celebrated men had been friends for many years before Mr. Burke entered on his parliamentary
career. They were both writers, both members of THE LITERARY CLUB; when, therefore, Dr. Johnson
saw Mr. Burke in a situation so much more splendid than that to which he himself had attained,
he did not mean to express that he thought it a disproportionate prosperity; but while he,
as a philosopher, asserted an exemption from envy, non equidem invideo, he went on in the words
of the poet miror magis; thereby signifying, either that he was occupied in admiring what he
was glad to see; or, perhaps, that considering the general lot of men of superiour abilities,
he wondered that Fortune, who is represented as blind, should, in this instance, have been
so just.' BOSWELL. Johnson in his youth had translated

'Non equidem invideo; miror magis'

(Virgil, Eclogues, i. II) by

'My admiration only I exprest, (No spark of envy harbours in my breast).'

Ante, i. 51.

[914] See ante ii. 136.

[915] This neglect was avenged a few years after Goldsmith's death, when Lord Camden sought
to enter The Literary Club and was black-balled. 'I am sorry to add,' wrote Mr. [Sir William]
Jones in 1780, 'that Lord Camden and the Bishop of Chester were rejected. When Bishops and
Chancellors honour us by offering to dine with us at a tavern, it seems very extraordinary
that we should ever reject such an offer; but there is no reasoning on the caprice of men.'
Life of Sir W. Jones, p. 240.

[916] Cradock (Memoirs, i. 229) was dining with The Literary Club, when Garrick arrived very
late, full-dressed. 'He made many apologies; he had been unexpectedly detained at the House
of Lords, and Lord Camden had insisted upon setting him down at the door of the hotel in his
own carriage. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 65. See ante, i. 393, note 1.

[918] The passage is in a letter dated Dublin, Oct. 12, 1727. 'Here is my maintenance,' wrote
Swift, 'and here my convenience. If it pleases God to restore me to my health, I shall readily
make a third journey; if not we must part, as all human creatures have parted.' He never made
the third journey. Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xvii. 154.

[919] See ante, ii. 162.

[920] No doubt Percy.

[921] The philosopher was Bias. Cicero, Paradoxa, i.

[922] Johnson recorded of this day (Pr. and Med. p. 164):--'We sat till the time of worship
in the afternoon, and then came again late, at the Psalms. Not easily, I think, hearing the
sermon, or not being attentive, I fell asleep.'

[923] Marshall's Minutes of Agriculture.

[924] It was only in hay-time and harvest that Marshall approved of Sunday work. He had seen
in the wet harvest of 1775 so much corn wasted that he 'was ambitious to set the patriotic
example' of Sunday labour. One Sunday he 'promised every man who would work two shillings,
as much roast beef and plumb pudding as he would eat, with as much ale as it might be fit for
him to drink.' Nine men and three boys came. In a note in the edition of 1799, he says:--'The
Author has been informed that an old law exists (mentioned by Dugdale), which tolerates husbandmen
in working on Sundays in harvest; and that, in proof thereof, a gentleman in the north has
uniformly carried one load every year on a Sunday.' He adds:--'Jan. 1799. The particulars of
this note were furnished by the late Dr. Samuel Johnson; at whose request some considerable
part of what was originally written, and printed on this subject was cancelled. That which
was published and which is now offered again to the public is, in effect, what Dr. Johnson
approved; or, let me put it in the most cautious terms, that of which Dr. Johnson did not disapprove.'
Marshall's Minutes etc., on Agriculture, ii. 65-70.

[925] Saturday was April 18.

[926] William Duncombe, Esq. He married the sister of John Hughes the poet; was the authour
of two tragedies and other ingenious productions; and died 26th Feb. 1769, aged 79. MALONE.
In his Life of Hughes (Works, vii. 477), Johnson says 'an account of Hughes is prefixed to
his works by his relation, the late Mr. Duncombe, a man whose blameless elegance deserved the
same respect.'

[927] See ante, i. 185, 243, and Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 22.

[928] See ante, i. 145.

[929] See Appendix A.

[930] No doubt Parson Home, better known as Home Tooke, who was at this time in prison. He
had signed an advertisement issued by the Constitutional Society asking for a subscription
for 'the relief of the widows, etc., of our beloved American fellow-subjects, who had been
inhumanly murdered by the King's troops at Lexington and Concord.' For this 'very gross libel'
he had in the previous November been sentenced to a fine of L200 and a year's imprisonment.
Ann. Reg. xx. 234-245. See post, May 13, 1778.

[931] Mr. Croker's conjecture that Dr. Shebbeare was the gentleman is supported by the favourable
way in which Boswell (post, May 1781) speaks of Shebbeare as 'that gentleman,' and calls him
'a respectable name in literature.' Shebbeare, on Nov. 28, 1758, was sentenced by Lord Mansfield
to stand in the pillory, to be confined for three years, and to give security for his good
behaviour for seven years, for a libellous pamphlet intitled A Sixth Letter to the People of
England. Gent. Mag. xxviii. 555. (See ante, p. 15, note 3.) On Feb. 7, 1759, the under-sheriff
of Middlesex was found guilty of a contempt of Court, in having suffered Shebbeare to stand
upon the pillory only, and not in it. Ib. xxix. 91. Before the seven years had run out, Shebbeare
was pensioned. Smollett, in the preface to Humphry Clinker, represents the publisher of that
novel as writing to the imaginary author:--'If you should be sentenced to the pillory your
fortune is made. As times go, that's a sure step to honour and preferment. I shall think myself
happy if I can lend you a lift.' See also in the same book Mr. Bramble's Letter of June 2.

[932] See p. 275 of this volume. BOSWELL. Why Boswell mentions this gentleman at all, seeing
that nothing that he says is reported, is not clear. Perhaps he gave occasion to Johnson's
attack on the Americans. It is curious also why both here and in the account given of Dr. Percy's
dinner his name is not mentioned. In the presence of this unknown gentleman Johnson violently
attacked first Percy, and next Boswell.

[933] Mr. Langton no doubt. See ante, iii. 48. He had paid Johnson a visit that morning. Pr.
and Med. p. 165.

[934] See ante, p. 216.

[935] See ante, i. 494, where Johnson says that 'her learning is that of a schoolboy in one
of the lower forms.'

[936] On this day Johnson recorded in his review of the past year:-- 'My nights have been commonly,
not only restless, but painful and fatiguing.' He adds, 'I have written a little of the Lives
of the Poets, I think with all my usual vigour.... This year the 28th of March passed away
without memorial. Couldest thou have lived!' Pr. and Med. pp. 169, 170.

[937] Mr. Langton. See ante, iii. 48.

[938] Malone was told by Baretti that 'Dr. James picked up on a stall a book of Greek hymns.
He brought it to Johnson, who ran his eyes over the pages and returned it. A year or two afterwards
he dined at Sir Joshua Reynolds's with Dr. Musgrave, the editor of Euripides. Musgrave made
a great parade of his Greek learning, and among other less known writers mentioned these hymns,
which he thought none of the company were acquainted with, and extolled them highly. Johnson
said the first of them was indeed very fine, and immediately repeated it. It consisted of ten
or twelve lines.' Prior's Malone, p. 160.

[939] By Richard Tickell, the grandson of Addison's friend. Walpole's Letters, vii. 54

[940] She was a younger sister of Peg Woffington (ante, p. 264). Johnson described her as 'a
very airy lady.' (Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 23, 1773.) Murphy (Life, p. 137) says that 'Johnson,
sitting at table with her, took hold of her hand in the middle of dinner, and held it close
to his eye, wondering at the delicacy and the whiteness, till with a smile she asked:--"Will
he give it to me again when he has done with it?"' He told Miss Burney that 'Mrs. Cholmondeley
was the first person who publicly praised and recommended Evelina among the wits.' Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 180. Miss Burney wrote in 1778:--'Mrs. Cholmondeley has been praising Evelina; my
father said that I could not have had a greater compliment than making two such women my friends
as Mrs. Thrale and Mrs. Cholmondeley, for they were severe and knowing, and afraid of praising
a tort et a travers, as their opinions are liable to be quoted.' Ib. i. 47. To Mrs. Cholmondeley
Goldsmith, just before his death, shewed a copy in manuscript of his Retaliation. No one else,
it should seem, but Burke had seen it. Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 412.

[941] Dr. Johnson is supported by the usage of preceding writers. So in Musarum Deliciae, 8vo.
1656 (the writer is speaking of Suckling's play entitled Aglaura, printed in folio):--

'This great voluminous pamphlet may be said
 To be like one that hath more hair than head.'

 MALONE.

Addison, in The Spectator, No. 529 says that 'the most minute pocket-author hath beneath him
the writers of all pamphlets, or works that are only stitched. As for a pamphleteer he takes
place of none but of the authors of single sheets.' The inferiority of a pamphlet is shewn
in Johnson's Works, ed. 1787, xi. 216:--'Johnson would not allow the word derange to be an
English word. "Sir," said a gentleman who had some pretensions to literature, "I have seen
it in a book." "Not in a bound book," said Johnson; "disarrange is the word we ought to use
instead of it."' In his Dictionary he gives neither derange nor disarrange. Dr. Franklin, who
had been a printer and was likely to use the term correctly, writing in 1785, mentions 'the
artifices made use of to puff up a paper of verses into a pamphlet.' Memoirs, iii. 178.

[942] See post, March 16, 1779, for 'the exquisite address' with which Johnson evaded a question
of this kind.

[943] Garrick insisted on great alterations being made in The Good Natured Man. When Goldsmith
resisted this, 'he proposed a sort of arbitration,' and named as his arbitrator Whitehead the
laureate. Forster's Goldsmith, ii. 41. It was of Whitehead's poetry that Johnson said 'grand
nonsense is insupportable.' Ante, i. 402. The Good Natured Man was brought out by Colman, as
well as She Stoops to Conquer.

[944] See ante, ii. 208, note 5.

[945] See ante, i. 416.

[946] 'This play, written in ridicule of the musical Italian drama, was first offered to Cibber
and his brethren at Drury Lane, and rejected; it being then carried to Rich had the effect,
as was ludicrously said, of making Gay rich and Rich gay.' Johnson's Works, viii. 66. See ante,
ii. 368.

[947] See ante, i. 112.

[948] In opposition to this Mr. Croker quotes Horace:---

'Populus me sibilat; at mihi plaudo Ipse domi, simul ac nummos contemplor in arca.' 'I'm hissed
in public; but in secret blest, I count my money and enjoy my chest.' Horace, Sat. i. I. 66.

See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 26.

[949] The anecdote is told in Menagiana, iii. 104, but not of a 'maid of honour,' nor as an
instance of 'exquisite flattery.' 'M. d'Uzes etait chevalier d'honneur de la reine. Cette princesse
lui demanda un jour quelle heure il etait; il repondit, "Madame, l'heure qu'il plaira a votre
majeste."' Menage tells it as a pleasantry of M. d'Uzes; but M. de la Monnoye says, that this
duke was remarkable for naivetes and blunders, and was a kind of butt, to whom the wits of
the court used to attribute all manner of absurdities. CROKER.

[950] Horace, Odes, iv. 2. II. The common reading is solutis. Boswell (Hebrides, Aug. 15, 1773)
says:--'Mr. Wilkes told me this himself with classical admiration.'

[951] See this question fully investigated in the Notes upon my Journal of a Tour to the Hebrides,
edit. 3, p. 21, et seq. [Aug. 15]. And here, as a lawyer mindful of the maxim Suum cuique tribuito,
I cannot forbear to mention, that the additional Note beginning with 'I find since the former
edition,' is not mine, but was obligingly furnished by Mr. Malone, who was so kind as to superintend
the press while I was in Scotland, and the first part of the second edition was printing. He
would not allow me to ascribe it to its proper authour; but, as it is exquisitely acute and
elegant, I take this opportunity, without his knowledge, to do him justice. BOSWELL. See also
ante, i. 453, and post, May 15, 1784.

[952] Horace, Sat. i. I. 106. Malone points out that this is the motto to An Enquiry into Customary
Estates and Tenants' Rights, &c., with some considerations for restraining excessive fines.
By Everard Fleetwood, 8vo, 1737.

[953] A modus is something paid as a compensation for tithes on the supposition of being a
moderate equivalent. Johnson's Dictionary. It was more desirable for the landlord than the
Parson. Thus T. Warton, in his Progress of Discontent, represents the Parson who had taken
a college living regretting his old condition,

'When calm around the common-room I puffed my daily pipe's perfume; ... And every night I went
to bed, Without a modus in my head.'

T. Warton's Poems, ii. 197.

[954] Fines are payments due to the lord of a manor on every admission of a new tenant. In
some manors these payments are fixed by custom; they are then fines certain; in others they
are not fixed, but depend on the reasonableness of the lord and the paying capacity of the
tenant; they are fines uncertain. The advantage of fines certain, like that of a modus in tithes,
is that a man knows what he shall get.

[955] Ante, iii. 35.

[956] Mr. P. Cunningham has, I think, enabled us to clear up Boswell's mystery, by finding
in the Garrick Corres, ii. 305, May 1778, that Johnson's poor friend, Mauritius Lowe, the painter,
lived at No. 3, Hedge Lane, in a state of extreme distress. CROKER. See post, April 3, 1779,
and April 12, 1783.

[957] 'In all his intercourse with mankind, Pope had great delight in artifice, and endeavoured
to attain all his purposes by indirect and unsuspected methods. "He hardly drank tea without
a stratagem." ["Nor take her tea without a stratagem." Young's Universal Passion, Sat. vi.]
He practised his arts on such small occasions that Lady Bolingbroke used to say, in a French
phrase, that "he played the politician about cabbages and turnips."' Johnson's Works, viii. 311.

[958] Johnson, post, under March 30, 1783, speaks of 'the vain ostentatious importance of many
persons in quoting the authority of dukes and lords.' In his going to the other extreme, as
he said he did, may be found the explanation of Boswell's 'mystery.' For of mystery--'the wisdom
of blockheads,' as Horace Walpole calls it (Letters, iii. 371)--Johnson was likely to have
as little as any man. As for Grosvenor-square, the Thrales lived there for a short time, and
Johnson had a room in the house (post, March 20, 1781).

[959] Tacitus, Agricola, ch. xxx. 'The unknown always passes for something peculiarly grand.'

[960] Johnson defines toy-shop as 'a shop where playthings and little nice manufactures are sold.'

[961] See ante, ii. 241.

[962] Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 237) says that 'the fore-top of all his wigs were (sic) burned
by the candle down to the very net-work. Mr. Thrale's valet, for that reason, kept one always
in his own hands, with which he met him at the parlour door when the bell had called him down
to dinner.' Cumberland (Memoirs, i. 357) says that he wore 'a brown coat with metal buttons,
black waistcoat and worsted stockings, with a flowing bob-wig; they were in perfectly good
trim, and with the ladies he had nothing of the slovenly philosopher about him.'

[963] See ante, ii. 432.

[964] Here he either was mistaken, or had a different notion of an extensive sale from what
is generally entertained: for the fact is, that four thousand copies of that excellent work
were sold very quickly. A new edition has been printed since his death, besides that in the
collection of his works. BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 310, note 2.

[965] 'In the neighbourhood of Lichfield [in 1750] the principal gentlemen clothed their hounds
in tartan plaid, with which they hunted a fox, dressed in a red uniform.' Mahon's Hist. of
England, iv. 10.

[966] So Boswell in his Hebrides (Nov. 8), hoping that his father and Johnson have met in heaven,
observes, 'that they have met in a place where there is no room for Whiggism.' See ante, i. 431.

[967] Paradise Lost, bk. i. 263. Butler (Miscellaneous Thoughts, 1. 169) had said:--

'The Devil was the first o' th' name From whom the race of rebels came.'

[968] In the phraseology of Scotland, I should have said, 'Mr. John Spottiswoode the younger,
of that ilk.' Johnson knew that sense of the word very well, and has thus explained it in his
Dictionary, voce ILK:--'It also signifies "the same;" as, Mackintosh of that ilk, denotes a
gentleman whose surname and the title of his estate are the same.' BOSWELL. See ante, ii. 427,
note 2.

[969] He wrote to Dr. Taylor on Oct. 19 of the next year:--'There are those still who either
fright themselves, or would fright others, with an invasion.... Such a fleet [a fleet equal
to the transportation of twenty or of ten thousand men] cannot be hid in a creek; it must be
safely [?] visible; and yet I believe no man has seen the man that has seen it. The ships of
war were within sight of Plymouth, and only within sight.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 461.

[970] See ante, iii. 42.

[971] It is observed in Waller's Life, in the Biographia Britannica, that he drank only water;
and that while he sat in a company who were drinking wine, 'he had the dexterity to accommodate
his discourse to the pitch of theirs as it sunk.' If excess in drinking be meant, the remark
is acutely just. But surely, a moderate use of wine gives a gaiety of spirits which water-drinkers
know not. BOSWELL. 'Waller passed his time in the company that was highest, both in rank and
wit, from which even his obstinate sobriety did not exclude him. Though he drank water, he
was enabled by his fertility of mind to heighten the mirth of Bacchanalian assemblies; and
Mr. Saville said that "no man in England should keep him company without drinking but Ned Waller."'
Johnson's Works, vii. 197.

[972] See ante, iii. 41, and Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 17.

[973] Pope. Satires, Prologue, 1. 283.

[974] As he himself had said in his letter of thanks for his diploma of Doctor of Laws, 'Nemo
sibi placens non lactatur' (ante, ii. 333).

[975]

'Who mean to live within our proper sphere, Dear to ourselves, and to our country dear.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epistles, i. 3. 29.

[976] Johnson recommended this before. Ante, p. 169. Boswell tried abstinence once before.
Ante, ii. 436, note 1, and iii. 170, note 1.

[977] Johnson wrote to Boswell in 1775:--'Reynolds has taken too much to strong liquor, and
seems to delight in his new character.' Ante, ii. 292.

[978] See ante, p. 170, note 2.

[979] At the Castle of the Bishop of Munster 'there was,' writes Temple, 'nothing remarkable
but the most Episcopal way of drinking that could be invented. As soon as we came in the great
hall there stood many flagons ready charged; the general called for wine to drink the King's
health; they brought him a formal bell of silver gilt, that might hold about two quarts or
more; he took it empty, pulled out the clapper, and gave it me who (sic) he intended to drink
to, then had the bell filled, drunk it off to his Majesty's health; then asked me for the clapper,
put it in, turned down the bell, and rung it out to shew he had played fair and left nothing
in it; took out the clapper, desired me to give it to whom I pleased, then gave his bell to
be filled again, and brought it to me. I that never used to drink, and seldom would try, had
commonly some gentlemen with me that served for that purpose when it was necessary.' Temple's
Works, ed. 1757, i. 266.

[980] See ante, ii. 450, note 1, and iii. 79.

[981] The passages are in the Jerusalem, canto i. st. 3, and in Lucretius, i. 935, and again
iv. 12. CROKER.

[982] See ante, ii. 247, where Boswell says that 'no man was more scrupulously inquisitive
in order to discover the truth;' and iii. 188, 229.

[983] See post, under May 8, 1781.

[984] 'Sir,' said Johnson, 'I love Robertson, and I won't talk of his book.' Ante, ii. 53.

[985] 'I was once in company with Smith,' said Johnson in 1763, 'and we did not take to each
other.' Ante, i. 427. See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 29.

[986] See ante, ii. 63.

[987] See ante, ii. 84

[988] See ante, p. 3.

[989] This experiment which Madame Dacier made in vain, has since been tried in our own language,
by the editor of Ossian, and we must either think very meanly of his abilities, or allow that
Dr. Johnson was in the right. And Mr. Cowper, a man of real genius, has miserably failed in
his blank verse translation. BOSWELL. Johnson, in his Life of Pope (Works, viii. 253), says:--'I
have read of a man, who being by his ignorance of Greek compelled to gratify his curiosity
with the Latin printed on the opposite page, declared that from the rude simplicity of the
lines literally rendered he formed nobler ideas of the Homeric majesty, than from the laboured
elegance of polished versions,' Though Johnson nowhere speaks of Cowper, yet his writings were
not altogether unknown to him. 'Dr. Johnson,' wrote Cowper, 'read and recommended my first
volume.' Southey's Cowper, v. 171.

[990] 'I bought the first volume of Manchester, but could not read it; it was much too learned
for me, and seemed rather an account of Babel than Manchester, I mean in point of antiquity.'
Walpole's Letters, vi. 207.

[991] Henry was injured by Gilbert Stuart, the malignant editor of the Edinburgh Magazine and
Review, who 'had vowed that he would crush his work,' and who found confederates to help him.
He asked Hume to review it, thinking no doubt that one historian would attack another; when
he received from him a highly favourable review he would not publish it. It contained a curious
passage, where Hume points out that Henry and Robertson were clergymen, and continues:--'These
illustrious examples, if any thing, must make the infidel abashed of his vain cavils.' J.H.
Burton's Hume, ii. 469.

[992] Hume wrote to Millar:--'Hamilton and Balfour have offered Robertson [for his Scotland]
a very unusual price; no less than L500 for one edition of 2000.' Ib. ii. 42. As Robertson
did not accept this offer, no doubt he got a better one. Even if he got no more, it would not
have seemed 'a moderate price' to a man whose preferment hitherto had been only L100 a year.
(See Dugald Stewart's Robertson, p. 161.) Stewart adds (ib. p. 169):--'It was published on
Feb. 1, 1759. Before the end of the month the author was desired by his bookseller to prepare
for a second edition.' By 1793 it was in its fourteenth edition. Ib. p. 326. The publisher
was Millar; the price two guineas. Gent. Mag. xxix. 84.

[993] Lord Clive. See post, p. 350, and Oct. 10, 1779.

[994] Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 286) gives an instance of this 'romantick humour.' 'Robertson
was very much a master of conversation, and very desirous to lead it, and to raise theories
that sometimes provoked the laugh against him. He went a jaunt into England with Dundas, Cockburn
and Sinclair; who, seeing a gallows on a neighbouring hillock, rode round to have a nearer
view of the felon on the gallows. When they met in the inn, Robertson began a dissertation
on the character of nations, and how much the English, like the Romans, were hardened by their
cruel diversions of cock-fighting, bull-baiting, &c.; for had they not observed three Englishmen
on horseback do what no Scotchman or--. Here Dundas interrupted him, and said, "What! did you
not know, Principal, that it was Cockburn and Sinclair and me?" This put an end to theories,
&c., for that day.'

[995] This was a favourite word with Johnson and Mrs. Thrale. 'Long live Mrs. G. that downs
my mistress,' he wrote (Piozzi Letters, ii. 26). 'Did you quite down her?' he asked of another
lady (Ib. p. 100). Miss Burney caught up the word: 'I won't be downed,' she wrote. Mme. D'Arblay's
Diary, i. 252.

[996] See ante, iii. 41, 327.

[997] Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 474) tells how Robertson, with one of his pupils, and he, visited
at a house where some excellent claret flowed freely. 'After four days Robertson took me into
a window before dinner, and with some solemnity proposed to make a motion to shorten the drinking,
if I would second him--"Because," added he, "although you and I may go through it, I am averse
to it on my pupil's account." I answered that I was afraid it would not do, as our toastmaster
might throw ridicule upon us, as we were to leave the island the day after the next, and that
we had not proposed any abridgement till the old claret was all done, the last of which we
had drunk yesterday. "Well, well," replied the Doctor, "be it so then, and let us end as we
began."'

[998] Johnson, when asked to hear Robertson preach, said:--'I will hear him if he will get
up into a tree and preach; but I will not give a sanction by my presence to a Presbyterian
assembly.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 27. See also Ib. Nov. 7.

[999] Mrs. Piozzi confidently mentions this as having passed in Scotland, Anecdotes, p. 62.
BOSWELL. She adds:--'I was shocked to think how he [Johnson] must have disgusted him [Robertson].'
She, we may well believe, felt no more shock than Robertson felt disgust.

[1000] See Voltaire's Siecle de Louis XIV, ch. xiv.

[1001] See ante, p. 191.

[1002] See ante, p. 54.

[1003] It was on this day that Johnson dictated to Boswell his Latin translation of Dryden's
lines on Milton. Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 22.

[1004] See ante, ii. 109.

[1005] '"Well, Sir," said he, "we had good talk." BOSWELL. "Yes Sir; you tossed and gored several
persons."' Ante, ii. 66.

[1006] Very likely their host. See ante, iii. 48.

[1007] See ante, iii. 97.

[1008] Acts, X. 1 and 2.

[1009] Mr. Croker says, 'no doubt Dr. Robertson;' see post, under June 16, 1784, where Johnson
says much the same of 'an authour of considerable eminence.' In this case Mr. Croker says,
'probably Dr. Robertson.' I have little doubt that Dr. Beattie was there meant. He may be meant
also here, for the description of the conversation does not agree with what we are told of
Robertson. See ante, p. 335. note 1. Perhaps, however, Dr. Blair was the eminent author. It
is in Boswell's manner to introduce the same person in consecutive paragraphs as if there were
two persons.

[1010] See ante, ii. 256.

[1011] Chappe D'Auteroche writes:--'La douceur de sa physionomie et sa vivacite annoncaient
plutot quelque indiscretion que l'ombre d'un crime. Tous ceux que j'ai consultes par la suite
m'ont cependant assure qu'elle etait coupable.' Voyage en Siberie, i. 227. Lord Kames says:--'Of
whatever indiscretion she might have been guilty, the sweetness of her countenance and her
composure left not in the spectators the slightest suspicion of guilt.' She was cruelly knouted,
her tongue was cut out, and she was banished to Siberia. Kames's Sketches, i. 363.

[1012] Mr. Croker says:--'Here I think the censure is quite unjust. Lord Kames gives in the
clearest terms the same explanation.' Kames made many corrections in the later editions. On
turning to the first, I found, as I expected, that Johnson's censure was quite just. Kames
says (i. 76):--'Whatever be the cause of high or low interest, I am certain that the quantity
of circulating coin can have no influence. Supposing the half of our money to be withdrawn,
a hundred pounds lent ought still to afford but five pounds as interest; because if the principal
be doubled in value, so is also the interest.' This passage was struck out in later editions.

[1013] 'Johnson had an extraordinary admiration of this lady, notwithstanding she was a violent
Whig.

A correspondent of The Gentleman's Magazine, who subscribes himself SCIOLUS, to whom I am indebted
for several excellent remarks, observes, 'The turn of Dr. Johnson's lines to Miss Aston, whose
Whig principles he had been combating, appears to me to be taken from an ingenious epigram
in the Menagiana [vol. iii. p. 376, edit. 1716] on a young lady who appeared at a masquerade,
habillee en Jesuite, during the fierce contentions of the followers of Molinos and Jansenius
concerning free-will:--

  "On s'etonne ici que Caliste
Ait pris l'habit de Moliniste.
  Puisque cette jeune beaute
Ote a chacun sa liberte,
  N'est-ce pas une Janseniste?"

BOSWELL.

Johnson, in his Criticism upon Pope's Epitaphs (Works, viii. 355), quotes the opinion of a
'lady of great beauty and excellence.' She was, says Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 162), Molly Aston.
Mrs. Piozzi, in her Letters (ii. 383), writes:--'Nobody has ever mentioned what became of Miss
Aston's letters, though he once told me they should be the last papers he would destroy.' See
ante, i. 83.

[1014] See ante, ii. 470.

[1015] Pope's Essay on Man, iv. 380.

[1016] See ante, i. 294.

[1017] 'March 4, 1745. You say you expect much information about Belleisle, but there has not
(in the style of the newspapers) the least particular transpired.' Horace Walpole's Letters,
i. 344. 'Jan. 26, 1748. You will not let one word of it transpire.' Chesterfield's Misc. Works,
iv. 35. 'It would be next to a miracle that a fact of this kind should be known to a whole
parish, and not transpire any farther.' Fielding's Tom Jones, bk. ii. c. 5. Tom Jones was published
before the Dictionary, but not so Walpole's Letters and Chesterfield's Misc. Works. I have
not found a passage in which Bolingbroke uses the word, but I have not read all his works.

[1018] 'The words which our authors have introduced by their knowledge of foreign languages,
or ignorance of their own ... I have registered as they occurred, though commonly only to censure
them, and warn others against the folly of naturalising useless foreigners to the injury of
the natives.' Johnson's Works, v. 31. 'If an academy should be established for the cultivation
of our style, which I, who can never wish to see dependance multiplied, hope the spirit of
English liberty will hinder or destroy, let them, instead of compiling grammars and dictionaries,
endeavour with all their influence to stop the license of translators, whose idleness and ignorance,
if it be suffered to proceed, will reduce us to babble a dialect of France.' Ib. p. 49.

[1019] Boswell on one occasion used it came out where a lover of fine words would have said
it transpired. See Boswell's Hebrides, November 1.

[1020] The record no doubt was destroyed with the other papers that Boswell left to his literary
executors (ante, p. 301, note 1).

[1021] See ante, i. 154.

[1022] 'Of Johnson's pride I have heard Reynolds observe, that if any man drew him into a state
of obligation without his own consent, that man was the first he would affront by way of clearing
off the account.' Northcote's Reynolds, i. 71.

[1023] See post, May 1, 1779.

[1024] This had happened the day before (May 11) in the writ of error in Horne's case (ante,
p. 314). Ann. Reg. xii. 181.

[1025] 'To enucleate. To solve; to clear.' Johnson's Dictionary.

[1026] In the original me.

[1027] Pope himself (Moral Essays, iii. 25) attacks the sentiment contained in this stanza.
He says:--

'What nature wants (a phrase I must distrust) Extends to luxury, extends to lust.'

Mr. Elwin (Pope's Works, ii. 462) doubts the genuineness of this suppressed stanza. Montezuma,
in Dryden's Indian Emperour, act ii. sc. 2, says:--

'That lust of power we from your Godheads have, You're bound to please those appetites you gave.'

[1028] 'Antoine Arnauld, surnomme le grand Arnauld, theologien et philosophe, ne a Paris le
6 fevrier 1612, mort le 6 aout 1694 a Bruxelles.' Nouv. Biog. Gen. iii. 282.

[1029] 'It may be discovered that when Pope thinks himself concealed he indulges the common
vanity of common men, and triumphs in those distinctions which he had affected to despise.
He is proud that his book was presented to the King and Queen by the right honourable Sir Robert
Walpole; he is proud that they had read it before; he is proud that the edition was taken off
by the nobility and persons of the first distinction.' Johnson's Works, viii. 278.

[1030] Othello, act iii. sc. 3.

[1031] Mr. Langton, I have little doubt. Not only does that which Johnson says of sluggishness
fit his character, but the fact that he is spoken of in the next paragraph points to him.

[1032] Mr. Langton. See ante, iii. 48.

[1033] We may wonder whether pasted is strictly used. It seems likely that the wealthy brewer,
who had a taste for the fine arts, afforded Hogarth at least a frame.

[1034] See ante, i. 49.

[1035] Baths are called Hummums in the East, and thence these hotels in Covent Garden, where
there were baths, were called by that name. CROKER.

[1036] Beauclerk.

[1037] Bolingbroke. Ante, ii. 246.

[1038] Lord Clive. Ante, p. 334.

[1039] Hamlet, act i. sc. 2.

[1040] Johnson, or Boswell in reporting him, here falls into an error. The editor of Chesterfield's
Works says (ii. 3l9), 'that being desirous of giving a specimen of his Lordship's eloquence
he has made choice of the three following speeches; the first in the strong nervous style of
Demosthenes; the two latter in the witty, ironical manner of Tully.' Now the first of these
speeches is not Johnson's, for it was reported in The Gent. Mag. for July, 1737, p. 409, nine
months before his first contribution to that paper. In spite of great differences this report
and that in Chesterfield's Works are substantially the same. If Johnson had any hand in the
authorised version he merely revised the report already published. Nor did he always improve
it, as will be seen by comparing with Chesterfield's Works, ii. 336, the following passage
from the Gent. Mag. p. 411:--'My Lords, we ought in all points to be tender of property. Wit
is the property of those who are possessed of it, and very often the only property they have.
Thank God, my Lords, this is not our case; we are otherwise provided for.' The other two speeches
are his. In the collected works (xi. 420, 489) they are wrongly assigned to Lord Carteret.
See ante, i. Appendix A.

[1041] See ante, p. 340.

[1042] These words are quoted by Kames, iii. 267. In his abbreviation he perhaps passed over
by accident the words that Johnson next quotes. If Clarendon did not believe the story, he
wished his readers to believe it. He gives more than five pages to it, and he ends by saying:--
'Whatever there was of all this, it is a notorious truth, that when the news of the duke's
murder (which happened within few months after) was brought to his mother, she seemed not in
the least degree surprised; but received it as if she had foreseen it.' According to the story,
he had told her of the warning which had come to him through his father's ghost. Clarendon's
History, ed. 1826, i. 74.

[1043] Kames maintains (iii. 95) that schools are not needful for the children of the labouring
poor. They would be needful, 'if without regular education we could have no knowledge of the
principles of religion and of morality. But Providence has not left man in a state so imperfect:
religion and morality are stamped on his heart; and none can be ignorant of them, who attend
to their own perceptions.'

[1044] 'Oct. 5, 1764. Mr. Elliot brings us woeful accounts of the French ladies, of the decency
of their conversation, and the nastiness of their behaviour.' Walpole's Letters, iv. 277. Walpole
wrote from Paris on Nov. 19, 1765, 'Paris is the ugliest, beastliest town in the universe,'
and describes the nastiness of the talk of French women of the first rank. Ib. p. 435. Mrs.
Piozzi, nearly twenty years later, places among 'the contradictions one meets with every moment'
at Paris, 'A Countess in a morning, her hair dressed, with diamonds too perhaps, and a dirty
black handkerchief about her neck.' Piozzi's Journey, i. 17. See ante, ii. 403, and post, under
Aug. 29, 1783.

[1045] See Appendix B.

[1046] His lordship was, to the last, in the habit of telling this story rather too often. CROKER.

[1047] See ante, ii. 194.

[1048] See ante, iii. 178.

[1049] See ante, ii. 153.

[1050] 'Our eyes and ears may convince us,' wrote Wesley, 'there is not a less happy body of
men in all England than the country farmers. In general their life is supremely dull; and it
is usually unhappy too; for of all people in the kingdom, they are the most discontented, seldom
satisfied either with God or man.' Southey's Wesley, i. 420. He did not hold with Johnson as
to the upper classes. 'Oh! how hard it is,' he said, 'to be shallow enough for a polite audience.'
Ib. p. 419.

[1051] Horne says:--'Even S. Johnson, though mistakenly, has attempted AND, and would find
no difficulty with THEREFORE' (ed. 1778, p. 21). However, in a note on p. 56 he says:--'I could
never read his preface [to his Dictionary] without shedding a tear.' See ante, i. 297, note 2.

[1052] In Mr. Horne Tooke's enlargement of that Letter, which he has since published with the
title of [Greek: Epea pteroenta]; or, the Diversions of Purley; he mentions this compliment,
as if Dr. Johnson instead of several of his etymologies had said all. His recollection having
thus magnified it, shews how ambitious he was of the approbation of so great a man. BOSWELL.
Horne Tooke says (ed. 1798, part i, p. 156) 'immediately after the publication of my Letter
to Mr. Dunning I was informed by Mr. S. [Seward], an intimate friend of Dr. Johnson, that he
had declared that, if he lived to give a new edition of his Dictionary, he should certainly
adopt my derivations.' Boswell and Horne Tooke, says Stephens (Life of Tooke, ii. 438), had
an altercation. 'Happening to meet at a gentleman's house, Mr. Boswell proposed to make up
the breach, on the express condition, however, that they should drink a bottle of wine each
between the toasts. But Mr. Tooke would not give his assent unless the liquor should be brandy.
By the time a quart had been quaffed Boswell was left sprawling on the floor.'

[1053] See ante, iii. 314. Thurlow, the Attorney-General, pressed that Horne should be set
in the pillory, 'observing that imprisonment would be "a slight inconvenience to one of sedentary
habits."' It was during his imprisonment that he wrote his Letter to Mr. Dunning. Campbell's
Chancellors, ed. 1846, v. 517. Horace Walpole says that 'Lord Mansfield was afraid, and would
not venture the pillory.' Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 167.

[1054] 'Bulse, a certain quantity of diamonds' (India). Webster's Dictionary.

[1055] 'He raised,' says Hawkins (Life, p. 236), 'the medical character to such a height of
dignity as was never seen in this or any other country. I have heard it said that when he began
to practise, he was a frequenter of the meeting at Stepney where his father preached; and that
when he was sent for out of the assembly, his father would in his prayer insert a petition
in behalf of the sick person. I once mentioned this to Johnson, who said it was too gross for
belief; but it was not so at Batson's [a coffee-house frequented by physicians]; it passed
there as a current belief.' See ante, i. 159. Young has introduced him in the second of his
Night Thoughts--

'That time is mine, O Mead, to thee I owe; Fain would I pay thee with eternity.'

Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 260) says 'that he had nothing but pretensions.'

[1056] On Oct. 17, 1777, Burgoyne's army surrendered to the Americans at Saratoga. One of the
articles of the Convention was 'that the army should march out of the camp with all the honours
of war to a fixed place where they were to deposit their arms. It is said that General Gates
[the American Commander] paid so nice and delicate an attention to the British military honour
that he kept his army close within their lines, and did not suffer an American soldier to be
a witness to the degrading spectacle of piling their arms.' Ann. Reg. xx. 173, 174. Horace
Walpole, on Lord Cornwallis's capitulation in 1781, wrote:--'The newspapers on the Court side
had been crammed with paragraphs for a fortnight, saying that Lord Cornwallis had declared
he would never pile up his arms like Burgoyne; that is, he would rather die sword in hand.'
Walpole's Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 475.

[1057] See ante, i. 342.

[1058] There was a Colonel Fullarton who took an important part in the war against Tippoo in
1783. Mill's British India, ed. 1840, iv. 276.

[1059] 'To count is a modern practice, the ancient method was to guess; and when numbers are
guessed, they are always magnified.' Johnson's Works, ix. 95.

[1060] He published in 1714 An Account of Switzerland.

[1061] See ante, ii. 468.

[1062] See Appendix C.

[1063] 'All unnecessary vows are folly, because they suppose a prescience of the future which
has not been given us. They are, I think, a crime, because they resign that life to chance
which God has given us to be regulated by reason; and superinduce a kind of fatality, from
which it is the great privilege of our nature to be free.' Piozzi Letters, i. 83. Johnson (Works,
vii. 52) praises the 'just and noble thoughts' in Cowley's lines which begin:--

'Where honour or where conscience does not bind,
  No other law shall shackle me;
  Slave to myself I ne'er will be;
Nor shall my future actions be confined
  By my own present mind.'

See ante, ii. 21.

[1064] Juvenal, Sat. iii. 78. Imitated by Johnson in London.

[1065] See Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 16, and Johnson's Tour into Wales, Aug. 1, 1774.

[1066] The slip of paper on which he made the correction, is deposited by me in the noble library
to which it relates, and to which I have presented other pieces of his hand-writing. BOSWELL.
In substituting burns he resumes the reading of the first edition, in which the former of the
two couplets ran:--

'Resistless burns the fever of renown, Caught from the strong contagion of the gown.'

'The slip of paper and the other pieces of Johnson's hand-writing' have been lost. At all events
they are not in the Bodleian.

[1067] Johnson (Works, vii. 76), criticising Milton's scheme of education, says:--'Those authors
therefore are to be read at schools that supply most axioms of prudence, most principles of
moral truth, and most materials for conversation; and these purposes are best served by poets,
orators, and historians. Let me not be censured for this digression as pedantic or paradoxical;
for if I have Milton against me, I have Socrates on my side. It was his labour to turn philosophy
from the study of nature to speculations upon life; but the innovators whom I oppose are turning
off attention from life to nature. They seem to think that we are placed here to watch the
growth of plants, or the motions of the stars. Socrates was rather of opinion that what we
had to learn was how to do good and avoid evil. "[Greek: hotti toi en megaroisi kakon t agathon
te tetuktai]."'

[1068] 'His ear was well-tuned, and his diction was elegant and copious, but his devotional
poetry is, like that of others, unsatisfactory. The paucity of its topicks enforces perpetual
repetition, and the sanctity of the matter rejects the ornaments of figurative diction. It
is sufficient for Watts to have done better than others what no man has done well.' Ib. viii.
386. See ante, i. 312. Mrs. Piozzi (Anec. p. 200) says that when 'Johnson would inveigh against
devotional poetry, and protest that all religious verses were cold and feeble,' she reminded
him how 'when he would try to repeat the Dies irae, dies illa, he could never pass the stanza
ending thus, Tantus labor non sit cassus, without bursting into a flood of tears.'

[1069] See ante, ii. 169, note 2.

[1070] Dr. Johnson was by no means attentive to minute accuracy in his Lives of the Poets;
for notwithstanding my having detected this mistake, he has continued it. BOSWELL. See post,
iv. 51, note 2 for a like instance of neglect.

[1071] See ante, ii. 64.

[1072] See ante, ii. 278.

[1073] 'May 31, 1778. We shall at least not doze, as we are used to do, in summer. The Parliament
is to have only short adjournments; and our senators, instead of retiring to horseraces (their
plough), are all turned soldiers, and disciplining militia. Camps everywhere.' Horace Walpole's
Letters, vii. 75. It was a threat of invasion by the united forces of France and Spain, at
the time that we were at war with America, that caused the alarm. Dr. J.H. Burton (Dr. A. Carlyle's
Auto. p. 399) points out, that while the militia of England was placed nearly in its present
position by the act of 1757, yet 'when a proposal for extending the system to Scotland was
suggested (sic), ministers were afraid to arm the people.' 'It is curious,' he continues, 'that
for a reason almost identical Ireland has been excepted from the Volunteer organisation of
a century later. It was not until 1793 that the Militia Acts were extended to Scotland.'

[1074] 'Before dinner,' wrote Miss Burney in September of this year, 'to my great joy Dr. Johnson
returned home from Warley Common.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 114. He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on
Oct. 15:--'A camp, however familiarly we may speak of it, is one of the great scenes of human
life. War and peace divide the business of the world. Camps are the habitations of those who
conquer kingdoms, or defend them.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 22.

[1075] Third Edition, p. 111 [Aug. 28]. BOSWELL. It was at Fort George. 'He made a very good
figure upon these topicks. He said to me afterwards that "he had talked ostentatiously."'

[1076] When I one day at Court expressed to General Hall my sense of the honour he had done
my friend, he politely answered, 'Sir, I did myself honour.' BOSWELL.

[1077] According to Malone, 'Mr. Burke said of Mr. Boswell that good nature was so natural
to him that he had no merit in possessing it, and that a man might as well assume to himself
merit in possessing an excellent constitution.' European Mag. 1798, p. 376. See Boswell's Hebrides,
Aug. 21.

[1078] Langton. See ante, iii. 48.

[1079] No doubt his house at Langton.

[1080] The Wey Canal. See ante, ii. 136. From navigation, i.e. a canal for internal navigation,
we have navvy. A canal was the common term for an ornamental pool, and for a time it seemed
that navigation and not canal might be the term applied to artificial rivers.

[1081] Langton.

[1082]

'He plunging downward shot his radiant head: Dispelled the breathing air that broke his flight;
Shorn of his beams, a man to mortal sight.'

Dryden, quoted in Johnson's Dictionary under shorn. The phrase first appears in Paradise Lost,
i. 596.

[1083] Mrs. Thrale, this same summer, 'asked whether Mr. Langton took any better care of his
affairs. "No, madam," cried the doctor, "and never will. He complains of the ill-effects of
habit, and rests contentedly upon a confessed indolence. He told his father himself that he
had no turn to economy, but a thief might as well plead that he had no turn to honesty!"' Mme.
D'Arblay's Diary, i. 75.

[1084] Locke, in his last words to Collins, said:--'This world affords no solid satisfaction
but the consciousness of well-doing, and the hopes of another life.' Warburton's Divine Legation,
i. xxvi.

[1085] Not the young brewer who was hoped for (ante, iii. 210); therefore she is called 'poor
thing.' One of Mr. Thrale's daughters lived to Nov. 5, 1858.

[1086] On Oct. 15 Johnson wrote:--'Is my master [i.e. Mr. Thrale, ante, i. 494, note 3] come
to himself? Does he talk, and walk, and look about him, as if there were yet something in the
world for which it is worth while to live? Or does he yet sit and say nothing? To grieve for
evils is often wrong; but it is much more wrong to grieve without them.' Piozzi Letters. ii.
22. Nine days later he wrote:--'You appear to me to be now floating on the spring-tide of prosperity.
I think it very probably in your power to lay up L8000 a-year for every year to come, increasing
all the time, what needs not be increased, the splendour of all external appearance. And surely
such a state is not to be put into yearly hazard for the pleasure of keeping the house full,
or the ambition of out-brewing Whitbread? Piozzi Letters, p. 24.

[1087] See ante, ii. 136. The following letter, of which a fac-simile is given at the beginning
of vol. iii. of Dr. Franklin's Memoirs, ed. 1818, tells of 'a difference' between the famous
printer of Philadelphia and the King's Printer of London.

'Philada., July 5, 1775.

'Mr. Strahan,

'You are a Member of Parliament, and one of that Majority which has doomed my Country to Destruction.--You
have begun to burn our Towns, and murder our People.--Look upon your Hands!--They are stained
with the Blood of your Relations! You and I were long friends:--You are now my Enemy,--and

'I am, yours,

'B. FRANKLIN.'

When peace was made between the two countries the old friendship was renewed. Ib. iii. 147.

[1088] On this day he wrote a touching letter to Mr. Elphinston, who had lost his wife (Croker's
Boswell, p. 66, note). Perhaps the thoughts thus raised in him led him to this act of reconciliation.

[1089] Dr. Johnson here addresses his worthy friend, Bennet Langton, Esq., by his title as
Captain of the Lincolnshire militia, in which he has since been most deservedly raised to the
rank of Major. BOSWELL.

[1090] President of the Royal Society.

[1091] The King visited Warley Camp on Oct. 20. Ann. Reg. xxi. 237.

[1092] He visited Coxheath Camp on Nov. 23. Ib. Horace Walpole, writing of April of this year
when, in the alarm of a French invasion, the militia were called out, says:--'The King's behaviour
was childish and absurd. He ordered the camp equipage, and said he would command the army himself.'
Walpole continues:--'It is reported, that in a few days will be published in two volumes, folio,
an accurate account of His Majesty's Journeys to Chatham and Portsmouth, together with a minute
Description of his numerous Fatigues, Dangers, and hair-breadth Escapes; to which will be added
the Royal Bon-mots. And the following week will be published an History of all the Campaigns
of the King of Prussia, in one volume duodecimo.' Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 262, 264.

[1093] Boswell, eleven years later, wrote of him:--'My second son is an extraordinary boy;
he is much of his father (vanity of vanities). He is of a delicate constitution, but not unhealthy,
and his spirit never fails him. He is still in the house with me; indeed he is quite my companion,
though only eleven in September.' Letters of Boswell, p. 315. Mr. Croker, who knew him, says
that 'he was very convivial, and in other respects like his father--though altogether on a
smaller scale.' He edited a new edition of Malone's Shakespeare. He died in 1822. Croker's
Boswell, p. 620.

[1094] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 30, 1773.

[1095] Ib. Nov. 1.

[1096] Regius Professor of Divinity and Canon of Christ Church. Johnson wrote in 1783:--'At
home I see almost all my companions dead or dying. At Oxford I have just left [lost] Wheeler,
the man with whom I most delighted to converse.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 302. See post, Aug. 30, 1780.

[1097] Johnson, in 1784, wrote about a visit to Oxford:--'Since I was there my convivial friend
Dr. Edwards and my learned friend Dr. Wheeler are both dead, and my probabilities of pleasure
are very much diminished.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 371.

[1098] Dr. Edwards was preparing an edition of Xenophon's Memorabilia. CROKER.

[1099] Johnson wrote on the 14th:--'Dr. Burney had the luck to go to Oxford the only week in
the year when the library is shut up. He was, however, very kindly treated; as one man is translating
Arabick and another Welsh for his service.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 38.

[1100] Johnson three years later, hearing that one of Dr. Burney's sons had got the command
of a ship, wrote:--'I question if any ship upon the ocean goes out attended with more good
wishes than that which carries the fate of Burney. I love all of that breed whom I can be said
to know, and one or two whom I hardly know I love upon credit, and love them because they love
each other.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 225. See post, Nov. 16, 1784.

[1101] Vol. ii. p. 38. BOSWELL.

[1102] Miss Carmichael. BOSWELL.

[1103] See Appendix D.

[1104] See ante, ii. 382, note 1.

[1105] See ante, i. 446.

[1106] See ante, iii. 99, note 4.

[1107] It was the collected edition containing the first seven Discourses, which had each year
been published separately. 'I was present,' said Samuel Rogers (Table-Talk, p. 18), 'when Sir
Joshua Reynolds delivered his last lecture at the Royal Academy. On entering the room, I found
that a semicircle of chairs immediately in front of the pulpit was reserved for persons of
distinction, being labelled "Mr. Burke," "Mr. Boswell," &c.'

[1108] In an unfinished sketch for a Discourse, Reynolds said of those already delivered:--'Whatever
merit they may have must be imputed, in a great measure, to the education which I may be said
to have had under Dr. Johnson. I do not mean to say, though it certainly would be to the credit
of these Discourses if I could say it with truth, that he contributed even a single sentiment
to them; but he qualified my mind to think justly.' Northcote's Reynolds, ii. 282. See ante,
i. 245.

[1109] The error in grammar is no doubt Boswell's. He was so proud of his knowledge of languages
that when he was appointed Secretary for Foreign Correspondence to the Royal Academy (ante,
ii. 67, note 1), 'he wrote his acceptance of the honour in three separate letters, still preserved
in the Academy archives, in English, French, and Italian.' The Athenaeum, No. 3041.

[1110] The remaining six volumes came out, not in 1780, but in 1781. See post, 1781. He also
wrote this year the preface to a translation of Oedipus Tyrannus, by Thomas Maurice, in Poems
and Miscellaneous Pieces. (See preface to Westminster Abbey with other Poems, 1813.)

[1111] See ante, ii. 272.

[1112] Life of Watts [Works, viii. 380]. BOSWELL.

[1113] See ante, ii. 107.

[1114] See ante, iii. 126.

[1115] 'Perhaps no composition in our language has been oftener perused than Pomfret's Choice.'
Johnson's Works, vii. 222.

[1116] Johnson, in his Life of Yalden (Ib. viii. 83), calls the following stanza from his Hymn
to Darkness 'exquisitely beautiful':--

'Thou dost thy smiles impartially bestow, And know'st no difference here below: All things
appear the same by thee, Though Light distinction makes, thou giv'st equality.'

It is strange that Churchill was left out of the collection.

[1117] Murphy says, though certainly with exaggeration, that 'after Garrick's death Johnson
never talked of him without a tear in his eyes. He offered,' he adds, 'if Mrs. Garrick would
desire it of him, to be the editor of his works and the historian of his life.' Murphy's Johnson,
p. 145. Cumberland (Memoirs, ii. 210) said of Garrick's funeral:--'I saw old Samuel Johnson
standing beside his grave, at the foot of Shakespeare's monument, and bathed in tears.' Sir
William Forbes was told that Johnson, in going to the funeral, said to William Jones:--'Mr.
Garrick and his profession have been equally indebted to each other. His profession made him
rich, and he made his profession respectable.' Forbes's Beattie, Appendix CC.

[1118] See ante, i. 456.

[1119] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 23.

[1120] The anniversary of the death of Charles I.

[1121] See ante, i. 211.

[1123] On March 10 he wrote:--'I got my Lives, not yet quite printed, put neatly together,
and sent them to the King; what he says of them I know not. If the king is a Whig, he will
not like them; but is any king a Whig?' Piozzi Letters, ii. 43.

[1124] 'He was always ready to assist any authors in correcting their works, and selling them
to booksellers. "I have done writing," said he, "myself, and should assist those that do write."'
Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 202. See ante, ii. 195.

[1125] In The Rehearsal. See ante, ii. 168.

[1126] Johnson wrote on Nov. 21, 1778:--'Baretti has told his musical scheme to B---- and B----
will neither grant the question nor deny. He is of opinion that if it does not fail, it will
succeed, but if it does not succeed he conceives it must fail.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 41. Baretti,
in a marginal note on his copy, says that B---- is Dr. Burney. He adds:--'The musical scheme
was the Carmen Seculare. That brought me L150 in three nights, and three times as much to Philidor.
It would have benefited us both greatly more, if Philidor had not proved a scoundrel.' 'The
complaisant Italian,' says the Gent Mag. (xlix. 361), 'in compliment to our island chooses
"to drive destructive war and pestilence" ad Mauros, Seras et Indos, instead of ad Persas atque
Britannos.' Mr. Tasker, the clergyman, went a step further. 'I,' he says in his version of
the Carmen,

'Honour and fame prognosticate
To free-born Britain's naval state
  And to her Patriot-King.' Ib.

[1127] We may compare with this the scene in Le Misanthrope (Act i. sc. 2), where Oronte reads
his sonnet to Alceste; who thrice answers: --'Je ne dis pas cela, mais--.' See ante, iii. 320.

[1128] This was a Mr. Tasker. Mr. D'Israeli informed me that this portrait is so accurately
drawn, that being, some years after the publication of this work, at a watering-place on the
coast of Devon, he was visited by Mr. Tasker, whose name, however, he did not then know, but
was so struck with his resemblance to Boswell's picture, that he asked him whether he had not
had an interview with Dr. Johnson, and it appeared that he was indeed the author of The Warlike
Genius of Britain. CROKER.

[1129] The poet was preparing a second edition of his Ode. 'This animated Pindaric made its
first appearance the latter end of last year (1778). It is well calculated to rouse the martial
spirit of the nation, and is now reprinted with considerable additions.' Gent. Mag. July, 1779,
p. 357. In 1781 he published another volume of his poems with a poetical preface, in which
he thus attacks his brother-in-law:--

'To suits litigious, ignorant and raw, Compell'd by an unletter'd brother-in-law.'

Ib. 1781, p. 227.

[1130] Boswell must have misheard what Johnson said. It was not Anson, but Amherst whom the
bard praised. Ode, p. 7.

[1131] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Foote's death:--'Now, will any of his contemporaries
bewail him? Will Genius change his sex to weep?' Piozzi Letters, i. 396.

[1132]

'Genius of Britain! to thy office true, On Cox-Heath reared the waving banners view.

       *       *       *       *       *

            In martial vest
By Venus and the Graces drest,
To yonder tent, who leads the way?
Art thou Britannia's Genius? say.'

Ode, p. 8.

[1133] Twenty-nine years earlier he wrote:--'There is nothing more dreadful to an author than
neglect; compared with which reproach, hatred, and opposition are names of happiness.' The
Rambler, No. 2. In The Vicar of Wakefield, ch. xx, George says of his book:--'The learned world
said nothing to my paradoxes, nothing at all, Sir.... I suffered the cruellest mortification,
neglect.' See ante, ii. 61, 335. Hume said:--'The misfortune of a book, says Boileau, is not
the being ill spoke [sic] of, but the not being spoken of at all.' J.H. Burton's Hume, i. 412

[1134] The account given in Northcote's Reynolds (ii. 94-97) renders it likely that Sir Joshua
is 'the friend of ours.' Northcote, quoting Mr. Courtenay, writes:--'His table was frequented
by men of the first talents. Politics and party were never introduced. Temporal and spiritual
peers, physicians, lawyers, actors, and musicians composed the motley group.' At one of these
dinners Mr. Dunning, afterwards Lord Ashburton, was the first who came. 'On entering, he said,
"Well, Sir Joshua, and who [sic] have you got to dine with you to-day? for the last time I
dined with you the assembly was of such a sort, that, by G--, I believe all the rest of the
world were at peace, for that afternoon at least."' See post, under June 16, 1784, note. Boswell,
in his Letter to the People of Scotland (p. 95), boasts that he too is 'a very universal man.'
'I can drink, I can laugh, I can converse in perfect humour with Whigs, with republicans, with
dissenters, with Independents, with Quakers, with Moravians, with Jews. But I would vote with
Tories and pray with a Dean and Chapter.'

[1135] 'Finding that the best things remained to be said on the wrong side, I resolved to write
a book that should be wholly new. I therefore drest up three paradoxes with some ingenuity.
They were false, indeed, but they were new.' Vicar of Wakefield, ch. xx. He was perhaps unusually
dissipated this visit.

[1137] See ante, ii. 135.

[1138] 'Three men,' writes Horace Walpole, 'were especially suspected, Wilkes, Edmund Burke,
and W. G. Hamilton. Hamilton was most generally suspected.' Memoirs of George III, iii. 401.
According to Dr. T. Campbell (Diary, p. 35) Johnson in 1775 'said that he looked upon Burke
to be the author of Junius, and that though he would not take him contra mundum, yet he would
take him against any man.'

[1139] Sargeant Bettersworth, enraged at Swift's lines on him, 'demanded whether he was the
author of that poem. "Mr. Bettesworth," answered he, "I was in my youth acquainted with great
lawyers, who knowing my disposition to satire advised me that if any scoundrel or blockhead
whom I had lampooned should ask, Are you the author of this paper? I should tell him that I
was not the author; and therefore I tell you, Mr. Bettesworth, that I am not the author of
these lines."' Johnson's Works, viii. 216. See post, June 13, 1784.

[1140] Mr. S. Whyte (Miscellanea Nova, p. 27) says that Johnson mistook the nature of the compliment.
Sheridan had fled to France from his debtors. In 1766 an Insolvent Debtors' Relief Bill was
brought into the House in his absence. Mr. Whyte, one of his creditors, petitioned the House
to have Sheridan's name included. A very unusual motion was made, 'that petitioner shall not
be put to his oath; but the facts set forth in his petition be admitted simply on his word.'
The motion was seconded by an instantaneous Ay! Ay! without a dissenting voice. Sheridan wrote
to Mr. Whyte:--'As the thing has passed with so much credit to me, the whole honour and merit
of it is yours'.

[1141] In The Rambler, No. 39, he wrote of this kind of control:--'It may be urged in extenuation
of this crime which parents, not in any other respect to be numbered with robbers and assassins,
frequently commit, that, in their estimation, riches and happiness are equivalent terms.' He
wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'There wanders about the world a wild notion which extends over marriage
more than over any transaction. If Miss ---- followed a trade, would it be said that she was
bound in conscience to give or refuse credit at her father's choice? ... The parent's moral
right can arise only from his kindness, and his civil right only from his money.' Piozzi Letters,
i. 83. See ante, i. 346.

[1142] See p. 186 of this volume. BOSWELL.

[1143] He refers to Johnson's letter of July 3, 1778, ante, p. 363.

[1144] See ante, iii. 5, 178.

[1145] 'By seeing London,' said Johnson, 'I have seen as much of life as the world can show.'
Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 11. 'London,' wrote Hume in 1765, 'never pleased me much. Letters
are there held in no honour; Scotmen are hated; superstition and ignorance gain ground daily.'
J.H. Burton's Hume, ii. 292.

[1146] See ante, i. 82.

[1147] 'I found in Cairo a mixture of all nations ... many brought thither by the desire of
living after their own manner without observation, and of lying hid in the obscurity of multitudes;
for in a city populous as Cairo it is possible to obtain at the same time the gratifications
of society and the secrecy of solitude.' Rasselas, ch. xii. Gibbon wrote of London (Misc. Works,
ii. 291):--'La liberte d'un simple particulier se fortifie par l'immensite de la ville.'

[1148] Perhaps Mr. Elphinston, of whom he said (ante, ii. 171), 'His inner part is good, but
his outer part is mighty awkward.'

[1149] Worthy is generally applied to Langton. His foibles were a common subject of their talk.
Ante, iii. 48.

[1150] By the Author of The Whole Duty of Man. See ante, ii. 239, note 4. Johnson often quotes
it in his Dictionary.

[1151] 'The things done in his body.' 2 Corinthians, v. 10.

[1152]

'Yes I am proud: I must be proud to see Men not afraid of God, afraid of me: Safe from the
bar, the pulpit, and the throne, Yet touched and shamed by ridicule alone. O sacred weapon!
left for truth's defence, Sole dread of folly, vice, and insolence!'

Pope. Satires, Epilogue, ii. 208.

[1153] Page 173. BOSWELL.

[1154] At eleven o'clock that night Johnson recorded:--'I am now to review the last year, and
find little but dismal vacuity, neither business nor pleasure; much intended and little done.
My health is much broken, my nights afford me little rest.... Last week I published the Lives
of the Poets, written, I hope, in such a manner as may tend to the promotion of piety. In this
last year I have made little acquisition. I have scarcely read anything. I maintain Mrs. ----
[Desmoulins] and her daughter. Other good of myself I know not where to find, except a little
charity.' Ib. p. 175.

[1155] Mauritius Lowe, the painter. Ante, p. 324.

[1156] See ante ii 249.

[1157] 'Cry to it, nuncle, as the cockney did to the eels when she put 'em i' the paste alive;
she knapped 'em o' the coxcombs with a stick, and cried, "Down wantons, down!"' King Lear,
act ii. sc. 4.

[1158] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 23, where Johnson, speaking of claret, said that 'there
were people who died of dropsies, which they contracted in trying to get drunk.'

[1159] 'If,' wrote Johnson in one of his Debates (Works xi. 392), 'the felicity of drunkenness
can be more cheaply obtained by buying spirits than ale, it is easy to see which will be preferred.'
See post, March 30, 1781.

[1160] Dempster, to whom Boswell complained that his nerves were affected, replied:--'One had
better be palsied at eighteen than not keep company with such a man.' Ante, i. 434.

[1161] Marquis of Graham, afterwards third Duke of Montrose. In The Rolliad (ed. 1795) he is
thus attacked:--

'Superior to abuse He nobly glories in the name of Goose; Such Geese at Rome from the perfidious
Gaul Preserved the Treas'ry-Bench and Capitol.'

He was one of the Lords of the Treasury. See also The Rolliad, p. 60

[1162] Johnson, however, when telling Mrs. Thrale that, in case of her husband's death, she
ought to carry on his business, said:--'Do not be frighted; trade could not be managed by those
who manage it if it had much difficulty. Their great books are soon understood, and their language,

"If speech it may be called, that speech is none Distinguishable in number, mood, or tense,"

is understood with no very laborious application.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 91. See Boswell's Hebrides,
Oct. 18.

[1163] See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept. 26.

[1164] See ante, iii. 88, note 1.

[1165] The Earl of Sandwich, First Lord of the Admiralty, with whom she lived seventeen years,
and by whom she had nine children. Ann. Reg. xxii. 206. The Duke of Richmond attacked her in
the House of Lords as one 'who was supposed to sell favours in the Admiralty for money.' Walpole's
Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 248, and Parl. Hist. xix. 993. It so happened that
on the day on which Hackman was hanged 'Fox moved for the removal of Lord Sandwich [from office]
but was beaten by a large majority.' Walpole's Letters, vii. 194. One of her children was Basil
Montague, the editor of Bacon. Carlyle writes of him:--'On going to Hinchinbrook, I found he
was strikingly like the dissolute, questionable Earl of Sandwich; who, indeed, had been father
of him in a highly tragic way.' Carlyle's Reminiscences, i. 224. Hackman, who was a clergyman
of the Church, had once been in the army. Cradock's Memoirs, i. 140.

[1166] On the following Monday Boswell was present at Hackman's execution, riding to Tyburn
with him in a mourning coach. London Mag. for 1779, p. 189.

[1167] At the Club. CROKER. See ante, ii. 345, note 5.

[1168] See ante, p. 281, for a previous slight altercation, and p. 195 for a possible cause
of unfriendly feeling between the two men. If such a feeling existed, it passed away, at all
events on Johnson's side, before Beauclerk's death. See post, iv. 10.

[1169] This gentleman who loved buttered muffins reappears in Pickwick (ch. 44), as 'the man
who killed himself on principle,' after eating three-shillings' worth of crumpets. Mr. Croker
says that Mr. Fitzherbert is meant; but he hanged himself. Ante, ii. 228, note 3.

[1170] 'It is not impossible that this restless desire of novelty, which gives so much trouble
to the teacher, may be often the struggle of the understanding starting from that to which
it is not by nature adapted, and travelling in search of something on which it may fix with
greater satisfaction. For, without supposing each man particularly marked out by his genius
for particular performances, it may be easily conceived that when a numerous class of boys
is confined indiscriminately to the same forms of composition, the repetition of the same words,
or the explication of the same sentiments, the employment must, either by nature or accident,
be less suitable to some than others.... Weariness looks out for relief, and leisure for employment,
and surely it is rational to indulge the wanderings of both.' Johnson's Works, v. 232. See
post, iv. 21.

[1171] 'See Boswell's Hebrides, Sept 10, and Johnson's Works, viii. 466. Mallet had the impudence
to write to Hume that the book was ready for the press; 'which,' adds Hume, 'is more than I
or most people expected.' J.H. Burton's Hume, ii. 139.

[1172] The name is not given in the first two editions. See ante, i. 82.

[1173] See p. 289 of this vol., and vol. i. p. 207. BOSWELL. The saying is from Diogenes Laertius,
bk. v. ch. I, and is attributed to Aristotle --[Greek: ho philoi oudeis philos.]

[1174]

'Love, the most generous passion of the mind, The softest refuge innocence can find; The safe
director of unguided youth, Fraught with kind wishes, and secured by truth; That cordial drop
Heaven in our cup has thrown, To make the nauseous draught of life go down.'

Wilmot, Earl of Rochester, A Letter from Artemisia, Chalmers's Poets, viii. 242. Pope (Imitations
of Horace, Epist. I. vi. 126) refers to these lines:--

'If, after all, we must with Wilmot own, The cordial drop of life is love alone.'

[1175] Garrick wrote in 1776:--'Gout, stone, and sore throat! Yet I am in spirits.' Garrick
Corres, ii. 138.

[1176] See ante, p. 70.

[1177] In The Life of Edmund Smith (Works, vii. 380). See ante, i. 81.

[1178] Johnson wrote of Foote's death:--'The world is really impoverished by his sinking glories.'
Piozzi Letters, i. 396. See ante, p. 185, note 1.

[1179] 'Allowance must be made for some degree of exaggerated praise,' he said in speaking
of epitaphs. 'In lapidary inscriptions a man is not upon oath.' Ante, ii. 407.

[1180] Garrick retired in January 1776, three years before his death. He visited Ireland in
1742, and again in 1743. Davies's Garrick, i. 57, 91.

[1181] In the original impoverished.

[1182] Certainly not Horace Walpole, as had been suggested to Mr. Croker. He and Johnson can
scarcely be said to have known each other (post, under June 19, 1784, note). A sentence in
one of Walpole's Letters (iv. 407) shews that he was very unlike the French wit. On Sept. 22,
1765, he wrote from Paris:--'The French affect philosophy, literature, and free-thinking: the
first never did, and never will possess me; of the two others I have long been tired. Free-thinking
is for one's self, surely not for society.' Perhaps Richard Fitzpatrick is meant, who later
on joined in writing The Rolliad, and who was the cousin and 'sworn brother' of Charles Fox.
Walpole describes him as 'an agreeable young man of parts,' and mentions his 'genteel irony
and badinage.' Journal of the Reign of George III, i. 167 and ii. 560. He was Lord Shelburne's
brother-in-law, at whose house Johnson might have met him, as well as in Fox's company. There
are one or two lines in The Rolliad which border on profanity.

[1184] According to Mr. Wright (Croker's Boswell, p. 630), this physician was Dr. James. I
have examined, however, the 2nd, 3rd, 5th, and 7th editions of his Dissertation on Fevers,
but can find no mention of this. In the 7th edition, published in 1770, he complains (p. 111)
of 'the virulence and rancour with which the fever-powder and its inventor have been traduced
and persecuted by the vendors of medicines and their abettors.'

[1185] According to Mr. Croker this was Andrew Millar, but I doubt it. See ante, i. 287, note 3.

[1186] 'The Chevalier Taylor, Ophthalmiator Pontifical, Imperial, and Royal,' as he styled
himself. Gent. Mag. xxxi. 226. Lord Eldon said that--'Taylor, dining with the barristers upon
the Oxford circuit, having related many wonderful things which he had done, was asked by Bearcroft,
"Pray, Chevalier, as you have told us of a great many things which you have done and can do,
will you be so good as to try to tell us anything which you cannot do?" "Nothing so easy,"
replied Taylor, "I cannot pay my share of the dinner bill: and that, Sir, I must beg of you
to do."' Twiss's Eldon, i 321.

[1187] Pope mentions Ward in the Imitations of Horace, 2 Epistle, i. 180:--

'He serv'd a 'prenticeship who sets up shop; Ward try'd on puppies, and the poor, his drop.'

Fielding, in Tom Jones, bk. viii. ch. 9, says that 'interest is indeed a most excellent medicine,
and, like Ward's pill, flies at once to the particular part of the body on which you desire
to operate.' In the introduction to the Voyage to Lisbon he speaks very highly of Ward's remedies
and of Ward himself, who 'endeavoured, he says, 'to serve me without any expectation or desire
of fee or reward.'

[1188] 'Every thing,' said Johnson, 'comes from Beauclerk so easily. It appears to me that
I labour, when I say a good thing.' Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 21. See post, under May 2, 1780.
Dr. A. Carlyle (Auto. p. 219) mentions another great-grandson of Charles II. (Commissioner
Cardonnel) who was 'the most agreeable companion that ever was. He excelled in story-telling,
like his great-grandfather, Charles II., but he seldom or ever repeated them.'

[1189] No doubt Burke. Ante, ii. 222, note 4.

[1190] General Paoli's house, where for some years Boswell was 'a constant guest while he was
in London.' Ante, p. 35

[1191] Allan Ramsay's residence: No. 67, Harley-street. P. CUNNINGHAM.

[1192] It is strange that he does not mention their visit in a letter in which he tells Temple
that he is lame, and that his 'spirits sank to dreary dejection;' and utters what the editor
justly calls an ambiguous prayer:--'Let us hope for gleams of joy here, and a blaze hereafter.'
This letter, by the way, and the one that follows it, are both wrongly dated. Letters of Boswell,
p. 237.

[1193] See p. 344 of this Volume. BOSWELL.

[1194] 'Johnson's first question was, "What kind of a man was Mr. Pope in his conversation?"
His Lordship answered, that if the conversation did not take something of a lively or epigrammatic
turn, he fell asleep, or perhaps pretended to do so.' Johnson's Works (1787), xi. 200. Johnson
in his Life of Pope (Works, viii. 309) says that 'when he wanted to sleep he "nodded in company."'

[1195] Boswell wrote to Temple late on this day, 'Let us not dispute any more about political
notions. It is now night. Dr. Johnson has dined, drunk tea, and supped with only Mr. Charles
Dilly and me, and I am confirmed in my Toryism.' Letters of Boswell, p. 238.

[1196] In the original or. Boswell quotes the line correctly, ante, p. 220.

[1197] 'I do not (says Mr. Malone) see any difficulty in this passage, and wonder that Dr.
Johnson should have acknowledged it to be inaccurate. The Hermit, it should be observed, had
no actual experience of the world whatsoever: all his knowledge concerning it had been obtained
in two ways; from books, and from the relations of those country swains, who had seen a little
of it. The plain meaning, therefore, is, "To clear his doubts concerning Providence, and to
obtain some knowledge of the world by actual experience; to see whether the accounts furnished
by books, or by the oral communications of swains, were just representations of it; [I say,
swains,] for his oral or viva voce information had been obtained from that part of mankind
alone, &c." The word alone here does not relate to the whole of the preceding line, as has
been supposed, but, by a common licence, to the words,--of all mankind, which are understood,
and of which it is restrictive.'

Mr. Malone, it must be owned, has shewn much critical ingenuity in the explanation of this
passage. His interpretation, however, seems to me much too recondite. The meaning of the passage
may be certain enough; but surely the expression is confused, and one part of it contradictory
to the other. BOSWELL. This note is first given in the third edition.

[1198] See ante, p. 297.

[1199] State is used for statement. 'He sate down to examine Mr. Owen's states.' Rob Roy, ed.
1860, viii. 101.

[1200] Johnson started for Lichfield and Ashbourne about May 20, and returned to London towards
the end of June. Piozzi Letters, ii. 44, 55. 'It is good,' he wrote, 'to wander a little, lest
one should dream that all the world was Streatham, of which one may venture to say, none but
itself can be its parallel.' Ib. p. 47. 'None but thyself can be thy parallel' is from Theobald's
Double Falsehood. Pope calls it 'a marvellous line,' and thus introduces it in The Dunciad,
first edition, iii. 271:--'For works like these let deathless Journals tell, "None but thyself
can be thy parallel."'

[1201] See post, Boswell's letter of Aug. 24, 1780, and Johnson's letter of Dec. 7, 1782.

[1202] Boswell, on his way to Scotland, wrote to Temple from this house:--'I am now at Southill,
to which place Mr. Charles Dilly has accompanied; it is the house of Squire John Dilly, his
elder brother. The family of Dilly have been land-proprietors in this county for two hundred
years.... I am quite the great man here, and am to go forward on the North road to-morrow morning.
Poor Mr. Edward Dilly is fast a-dying; he cried with affection at seeing me here; he is in
as agreeable a frame as any Christian can be.... I am edified here.' Letters of Boswell, p. 239.

[1203] On June 18 in the following year he recorded:--'In the morning of this day last year
I perceived the remission of those convulsions in my breast, which had distressed me for more
than twenty years. I returned thanks at church for the mercy granted me, which has now continued
a year.' Pr. and Med. p. 183. Three days later he wrote:--'It was a twelvemonth last Sunday
since the convulsions in my breast left me. I hope I was thankful when I recollected it; by
removing that disorder a great improvement was made in the enjoyment of life. I am now as well
as men at my age can expect to be, and I yet think I shall be better.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 163.

[1204] From a stroke of apoplexy. Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'You really do not use me
well in thinking that I am in less pain on this occasion than I ought to be. There is nobody
left for me to care about but you and my master, and I have now for many years known the value
of his friendship, and the importance of his life, too well not to have him very near my heart.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 56. To him he wrote shortly after the attack, no doubt with a view to give
the sick man confidence:--'To shew you how well I think of your health, I have sent you an
hundred pounds to keep for me.' Ib. p. 54. Miss Burney wrote very soon after the attack:--'At
dinner everybody tried to be cheerful, but a dark and gloomy cloud hangs over the head of poor
Mr. Thrale which no flashes of merriment or beams of wit can pierce through; yet he seems pleased
that everybody should be gay.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 220. The attack was in June. Piozzi
Letters, ii. 47. On Aug. 3, Johnson wrote to Dr. Taylor:--'Mr. Thrale has perfectly recovered
all his faculties and all his vigour.' Notes and Queries, 6th S. v. 461.

[1205] Which I communicated to him from his Lordship, but it has not yet been published. I
have a copy of it. BOSWELL. The few notices concerning Dryden, which Lord Hailes had collected,
the authour afterwards gave to Mr. Malone. MALONE. Malone published a Life of Dryden.

[1206] He recorded of his birth-day this year:--'On the 17th Mr. Chamier (ante, i. 478) took
me away with him from Streatham. I left the servants a guinea for my health, and was content
enough to escape into a house where my birth-day not being known could not be mentioned. I
sat up till midnight was past, and the day of a new year, a very awful day, began.' Pr. and
Med. pp. 181, 225.

[1207] See ante, ii. 427, note 1.

In The Idler, No. 31, we have in Mr. Sober a portrait of Johnson drawn by himself. He writes:--'The
art is to fill the day with petty business, to have always something in hand which may raise
curiosity, but not solicitude, and keep the mind in a state of action, but not of labour. This
art has for many years been practised by my old friend Sober with wonderful success.... His
chief pleasure is conversation; there is no end of his talk or his attention; to speak or to
hear is equally pleasing; for he still fancies that he is teaching or learning something, and
is free for the time from his own reproaches. But there is one time at night when he must go
home that his friends may sleep; and another time in the morning when all the world agrees
to shut out interruption. These are the moments of which poor Sober trembles at the thought.
But the misery of these tiresome intervals he has many means of alleviating.... His daily amusement
is chymistry. He has a small furnace which he employs in distillation, and which has long been
the solace of his life. He draws oils and waters, and essences and spirits, which he knows
to be of no use; sits and counts the drops as they come from his retort, and forgets that whilst
a drop is falling a moment flies away.' Mrs. Piozzi says (Anec. p. 236):--'We made up a sort
of laboratory at Streatham one summer, and diverted ourselves with drawing essences and colouring
liquors. But the danger Mr. Thrale found his friend in one day, when he got the children and
servants round him to see some experiments performed, put an end to all our entertainment.'

[1209] Afterwards Mr. Stuart Wortley. He was the father of the first Lord Wharncliffe. CROKER.

[1210] Horace Walpole, in April 1778, wrote:--'It was very remarkable that on the militia being
ordered out, two of Lord Bute's younger sons offered, as Bedfordshire gentlemen, to take any
rank in the militia in that county. I warned Lord Ossory, the Lord Lieutenant, against so dangerous
a precedent as admitting Scots in the militia. A militia can only be safe by being officered
by men of property in each county.' Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 252.

[1211] Walpole wrote in Dec. 1778:--'His Majesty complained of the difficulty of recruiting.
General Keppel replied aloud, "It is owing to the Scots, who raise their clans in and about
London." This was very true; the Master of Lovat had received a Royal gift of L6000 to raise
a regiment of his clan, and had literally picked up boys of fifteen in London and Westminster.'
Ib. p. 316.

[1212] He made his will in his wife's life-time, and appointed her and Sir William Forbes,
or the survivor of them, 'tutors and curators' to his children. Boswelliana, p. 186.

[1213] Head gardener at Stowe, and afterwards at Hampton Court and Windsor. He got his nickname
from his habit of saying that grounds which he was asked to lay out had capabilities. Lord
Chatham wrote of him:--'He writes Lancelot Brown Esquire, en titre d'office: please to consider,
he shares the private hours of--[the King], dines familiarly with his neighbour of Sion [the
Duke of Northumberland], and sits down at the tables of all the House of Lords, &c.' Chatham
Corres. iv. 178, 430.

[1214] See ante, pp. 334, 350. Clive, before the Committee of the House of Commons, exclaimed:--'By
God, Mr. Chairman, at this moment I stand astonished at my own moderation.' Macaulay's Essays,
iii. 198.

[1215] See ante, p. 216.

[1216] Yet, according to Johnson, 'the poor in England were better provided for than in any
other country of the same extent.' Ante, ii. 130.

[1217] See ante, ii. 119.

[1218] See ante, i. 67, note 2.

[1219] The Rev. Dr. Law, Bishop of Carlisle, in the Preface to his valuable edition of Archbishop
King's Essay on the Origin of Evil [ed. 1781, p. xvii], mentions that the principles maintained
in it had been adopted by Pope in his Essay on Man; and adds, 'The fact, notwithstanding such
denial (Bishop Warburton's), might have been strictly verified by an unexceptionable testimony,
viz that of the late Lord Bathurst, who saw the very same system of the [Greek: to beltion]
(taken from the Archbishop) in Lord Bolingbroke's own hand, lying before Mr. Pope, while he
was composing his Essay.' This is respectable evidence; but that of Dr. Blair is more direct
from the fountain-head, as well as more full. Let me add to it that of Dr. Joseph Warton; 'The
late Lord Bathurst repeatedly assured me that he had read the whole scheme of The Essay on
Man, in the hand-writing of Bolingbroke, and drawn up in a series of propositions, which Pope
was to versify and illustrate.' Essay on the Genius and Writings of Pope, vol. ii. p. 62. BOSWELL.
In the above short quotation from Law are two parentheses. According to Paley, the Bishop was
once impatient at the slowness of his Carlisle printer. '"Why does not my book make its appearance?"
said he to the printer. "My Lord, I am extremely sorry; but we have been obliged to send to
Glasgow for a pound of parentheses."' Best's Memorials, p. 196.

[1220] Johnson, defining ascertain in its first meaning as establish, quotes from Hooker: 'The
divine law ascertaineth the truth of other laws.'

[1221] 'To those who censured his politicks were added enemies yet more dangerous, who called
in question his knowledge of Greek, and his qualifications for a translator of Homer. To these
he made no publick opposition; but in one of his letters escapes from them as well as he can.
At an age like his, for he was not more than twenty-five, with an irregular education, and
a course of life of which much seems to have passed in conversation, it is not very likely
that he overflowed with Greek. But when he felt himself deficient he sought assistance; and
what man of learning would refuse to help him?' Johnson's Works, viii. 252. Johnson refers,
I think, to Pope's letter to Addison of Jan. 30, 1713-14.

[1222] 'That those communications had been consolidated into a scheme regularly drawn and delivered
to Pope, from whom it returned only transformed from prose to verse, has been reported but
can hardly be true. 287. Dr. Warton (Essay on Pope, ii. 58) says that he had repeatedly heard
from Lord Bathurst the statement recorded by Dr. Blair. 22.

[1224] See ante, pp. 226, 243.

[1225] Gibbon wrote of Lord Hailes:--'In his Annals of Scotland he has shewn himself a diligent
collector and an accurate critic.' Gibbon's Misc. Works, i. 233.

[1226] See ante, ii. 237.

[1227] See ante, ii. 79.

[1228]

'Versate diu quid ferre recusent,
 Quid valeant humeri.'
'Weigh with care
 What suits your genius, what your strength can bear.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Ars Poet. 1. 39.

[1229] Boswell seems to be afraid of having his head made to ache again, by the sense that
Johnson should put into it. See ante, p. 381.

[1230] The Spleen, a Poem. BOSWELL. The author was Matthew Green. Dodsley's Collection, i.
145. See ante, p. 38.

[1231] See ante, i. 182.

[1232] Of Dryden he wrote (Works, vii. 250):--'He began even now to exercise the domination
of conscious genius by recommending his own performance.'

[1233] See ante, i. 297.

[1234] Johnson's Works, vii. 95. See ante, i. 111.

[1235]

1. Exeter-street, off Catherine-street, Strand. [March 1737, ante, i.
   103.]
2. Greenwich. [July 1737, ante, i. 107.]
3. Woodstock-street, near Hanover-square. [End of 1737, ante, i. III.]
4. Castle-street, Cavendish-square, No. 6. [Spring and October 1738;
   ante, i. 120, and 135, note 1. Castle-street is now called
   Castle-street East.]
5. Strand.
6. Boswell-Court.
7. Strand, again. [Johnson mentions in Pr. and Med. p. 73, 'A good
    night's rest I once had in Fetter-Lane.']
11. Holborn, again.
12. Gough-square. [In Croker's Boswell, p. 62, is a letter dated
    'Goff-square, July 12, 1749.' He moved to Staple Inn on March 23,
    1759. Rasselas was written when he was living in Gough-square, and
    not in Staple Inn, as has been asserted. Ante, i. 516.]
13. Staple Inn.
14. Gray's Inn. [In Croker's Boswell, p. 118, is a letter dated
    'Gray's Inn, Dec. 17, 1759.']
15. Inner Temple-lane, No. 1. [He was here in June 1760, ante, i. 350,
    note 1; and on Jan. 13, 1761, as is shewn by a letter in Croker's
    Boswell, p. 122. Johnson Buildings now stand where his house stood.]
16. Johnson's-court, No. 7. [See i. 518 for a letter dated
    'Johnson's-court, Oct. 17, 1765.']
17. Bolt-court, No. 8. [He was here on March 15, 1776 (ante, ii. 427).
    From about 1765 (ante, i. 493) to Oct. 7, 1782 (post), he had
    moreover 'an apartment' at Streatham, and from about 1765 to about
    the end of 1780, one at Southwark (ante, i. 493). From about the
    beginning of 1781 to the spring of 1783 he had a room either in
    Grosvenor-square or Argyll-street (post, March 20, 1781 and March
    21, 1783.)]

[1236] See ante, ii. 55.

[1237] If, as seems to be meant, the 'gentleman supposed the case' on this occasion, he must
have been Boswell, for no one else was present with Johnson.

[1238] A crime that he would have restrained by 'severe laws steadily enforced.' Ante, iii. 18.

[1239] See ante, ii. 105.

[1240] Lord Newhaven was one of a creation of eighteen Irish peers in 1776. 'It was a mob of
nobility,' wrote Horace Walpole. 'The King in private laughed much at the eagerness for such
insignificant honours.' Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 58.

[1241] Now the Lady of Sir Henry Dashwood, Bart. BOSWELL.

[1242] See ante, ii. 111.

[1243] The False Alarm. See ante, ii. 111.

[1244] See Collins's Peerage, i. 636, and Hume's England, ed. 1802, iv. 451, for an account,
how Henry VIII. once threatened to cut off the head of Edward Montagu, one of the members (not
the Speaker as Mr. Croker says), if he did not get a money bill passed by the next day. The
bill, according to the story, was passed. Mr. P. Cunningham informed Mr. Croker that Johnson
was here guilty of an anachronism, for that heads were first placed on Temple Bar in William
III's time.

[1245] Horace Walpole thus describes public affairs in February of this year:--'The navy disgusted,
insurrections in Scotland, Wales mutinous, a rebellion ready to break out in Ireland where
15,000 Protestants were in arms, without authority, for their own defence, many of them well-wishers
to the Americans, and all so ruined that they insisted on relief from Parliament, or were ready
to throw off subjection; Holland pressed by France to refuse us assistance, and demanding whether
we would or not protect them: uncertainty of the fate of the West Indian Islands; and dread
at least that Spain might take part with France; Lord North at the same time perplexed to raise
money on the loan but at eight per cent., which was demanded--such a position and such a prospect
might have shaken the stoutest king and the ablest administration. Yet the king was insensible
to his danger. He had attained what pleased him most --his own will at home. His ministers
were nothing but his tools-- everybody called them so, and they proclaimed it themselves.'
Walpole's Journal of the Reign of George III, ii. 339. In this melancholy enumeration he passes
over the American War.

[1246] See ante, i. 78, note 2.

[1247] Wesley himself recorded in 1739 (Journal, i. 177):--'I have been all my life (till very
lately) so tenacious of every point relating to decency and order, that I should have thought
the saving of souls almost a sin if it had not been done in a church.'

[1248] Horace Walpole (Letters, viii. 131) talks of some one 'riding on three elephants at
once like Astley.' On p. 406 he says:--'I can almost believe that I could dance a minuet on
a horse galloping full speed, like young Astley.'

[1249] See ante, i. 458.

[1250] A friend of Wilkes, as Boswell was, might well be supposed to have got over such scruples.

[1251] Mr. Croker says that the '"celebrated friend" was no doubt Burke.' Burke, however, is
generally described by Boswell as 'eminent.' Moreover Burke was not in the habit of getting
drunk, as seems to have been the case with 'the celebrated friend.' Boswell (ante, p. 245,
note 1) calls Hamilton 'celebrated,' but then Boswell and Hamilton were not friends, as is
shewn, post, Nov. 1783.

[1252] Corinthians. xv, 33.

[1253] See ante, ii. 121.

[1254] 'Prince Gonzaga di Castiglione, when dining in company with Dr. Johnson, thinking it
was a polite as well as gay thing to drink the Doctor's health with some proof that he had
read his works, called out from the top of the table to the bottom.--At your health, Mr. Vagabond.'
Piozzi's Synonymy, ii. 358. Mme. D'Arblay (Memoirs of Dr. Burney, ii. 258) says,--'General
Paoli diverted us all very much by begging leave of Mrs. Thrale to give one toast, and then,
with smiling pomposity, pronouncing "The great Vagabond."'

[1255] 'Very near to admiration is the wish to admire. Every man willingly gives value to the
praise which he receives, and considers the sentence passed in his favour as the sentence of
discernment.' Johnson's Works, vii. 396.

[1256] See ante, ii. 461.

[1257] See ante, ii. 465.

[1258] See ante, ib. p. 466

[1259] See ante, ib. p. 467.

[1260] See ante, ib. p. 470.

[1261] See ante, ib. p. 469.

[1262] See ante, p. 405.

[1263] Bishop Porteus. See ante, p. 279.

[1264] Miss Letitia Barnston. BOSWELL.

[1265] 'At Chester I passed a fortnight in mortal felicity. I had from my earliest years a
love for the military life, and there is in it an animation and relish of existence which I
have never found amongst any other set of men, except players, with whom you know I once lived
a great deal. At the mess of Colonel Stuart's regiment I was quite the great man, as we used
to say; and I was at the same time all joyous and gay ... I never found myself so well received
anywhere. The young ladies there were delightful, and many of them with capital fortunes. Had
I been a bachelor, I should have certainly paid my addresses to a Chester lady.' Letters of
Boswell, p. 247.

[1266] Mrs. Thrale wrote to Johnson from Brighton in 1778:--'I have lost what made my happiness
in all seasons of the year; but the black dog shall not make prey of both my master and myself.
My master swims now, and forgets the black dog.' Johnson replied:--'I shall easily forgive
my master his long stay, if he leaves the dog behind him. We will watch, as well as we can,
that the dog shall never be let in again, for when he comes the first thing he does is to worry
my master.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 32, 37.

[1267] See ante, ii. 202.

[1268] I have a valuable collection made by my Father, which, with some additions and illustrations
of my own, I intend to publish. I have some hereditary claim to be an Antiquary; not only from
my Father, but as being descended, by the mother's side, from the able and learned Sir John
Skene, whose merit bids defiance to all the attempts which have been made to lessen his fame.
BOSWELL. See ante, i. 225, note 2, for an imperfect list of Boswell's projected publications,
and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 23, for a fuller one.

[1269] See ante, iii. 162, and Boswell's Hebrides, Nov. 11.

[1270] In the first two editions, we.

[1271] In chaps, xxiv. and xxv. of his Siecle de Louis XV. See ante, i. 498, note 4, for Voltaire's
'catching greedily at wonders.'

[1272] Burton in the last lines of The Anatomy of Melancholy, says:-- 'Only take this for a
corollary and conclusion; as thou tenderest thine own welfare in this and all other melancholy,
thy good health of body and mind, observe this short precept, give not way to solitariness
and idleness. "Be not solitary, be not idle."'

[1273] Johnson was in better spirits than usual. The following day he wrote:--'I fancy that
I grow light and airy. A man that does not begin to grow light and airy at seventy is certainly
losing time if he intends ever to be light and airy.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 73.

[1274] Crescit amor nummi quantum ipsa pecunia crescit. Juvenal, xiv. 139.

[1275] He had seen it on his Tour in Wales on July 26, 1774. See post, vol. v.

[1276] Dean Percy, ante, p. 365.

[1277] Another son was the first Lord Ellenborough.

[1278] His regiment was afterwards ordered to Jamaica, where he accompanied it, and almost
lost his life by the climate. This impartial order I should think a sufficient refutation of
the idle rumour that 'there was still something behind the throne greater than the throne itself.'
BOSWELL. Lord Shelburne, about the year 1803, likening the growth of the power of the Crown
to a strong building that had been raised up, said:--'The Earl of Bute had contrived such a
lock to it as a succession of the ablest men have not been able to pick, nor has he ever let
the key be so much as seen by which he has held it.' Fitzmaurice's Shelburne, i. 68.

[1279] Boswell, on Jan. 4, wrote to Temple:--'How inconsiderable are both you and I, in comparison
with what we used to hope we should be! Yet your learning and your memoirs set you far above
the common run of educated men. And Son pittore anche io. I too, in several respects, have
attained to superiority. But we both want solidity and force of mind, such as we observe in
those who rise in active life.' Letters of Boswell, p. 249.

[1280]

'For in the mind alone our follies lie,
 The mind that never from itself can fly.'

FRANCIS. Horace, Epistles, i. 14. 13.

[1281] Requesting me to inquire concerning the family of a gentleman who was then paying his
addresses to Miss Doxy. BOSWELL.

[1282] It is little more than half that distance.

[1283] Johnson wrote to Mrs. Thrale on Nov. 7:--'My master, I hope, hunts and walks, and courts
the belles, and shakes Brighthelmston. When he comes back, frolick and active, we will make
a feast, and drink his health, and have a noble day.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 79.

[1284] See page 368. BOSWELL. On Nov. 16 he wrote:--'At home we do not much quarrel; but perhaps
the less we quarrel, the more we hate. There is as much malignity amongst us as can well subsist
without any thought of daggers or poisons.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 93.

[1285] See ante, i. 187.

[1286] See post, p. 421, and Feb. 27, 1784.

[1287] See ante, i. 260, and post, June 4. 1781.

[1288] He wrote to Mrs. Thrale on April 11--'You are at all places of high resort, and bring
home hearts by dozens; while I am seeking for something to say about men of whom I know nothing
but their verses, and sometimes very little of them. Now I have begun, however, I do not despair
of making an end.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 100.

[1289] See ante, ii. 5.

[1290] A writer in Notes and Queries (3rd S., viii. 197) points out that Johnson, writing to
a doctor, uses a doctor's language. 'Until very lately solution of continuity was a favourite
phrase with English surgeons; where a bone was broken, or the flesh, &c. cut or lacerated,
there was a solution of continuity.' See ante, ii. 106, for laceration.

[1291] He died March 11, 1780, aged 40. Gent. Mag. 1780, p. 155.

[1292]

'Animula, vagula, blandula, Hospes comesque corporis, Quae nunc abibis in loca, Pallidula,
rigida, nudula? Nec, ut soles, dabis joca.'

Adriani morientis ad animam suam.

'Poor little, pretty, fluttering thing,
  Must we no longer live together?
And dost thou prune thy trembling wing,
  To take thy flight thou know'st not whither?
Thy humorous vein, thy pleasing folly
  Lies all neglected, all forgot;
And pensive, wavering, melancholy,
  Thou dread'st and hop'st thou know'st not what.' Prior.

In The Spectator, No. 532, is a letter from Pope to Steele on these 'famous verses which the
Emperor Adrian spoke on his death-bed.' See in Pope's Correspondence (Elwin's Pope, vi. 394),
this letter to Steele of Nov. 7, 1712, for his version of these lines.

[1293] See ante, ii. 246, note 1.

[1294] Mr. Beauclerk's library was sold by publick auction in April and May 1781, for L5011.
MALONE. See post, May 8, 1781.

[1295] By a fire in Northumberland-house, where he had an apartment, in which I have passed
many an agreeable hour. BOSWELL.

[1296] See post, iv. 31.

[1297] In 1768, on his birthday, Johnson recorded, 'This day it came into my mind to write
the history of my melancholy.' Ante, ii. 45, note 1.

[1298] Johnson had dated his letter, 'London, April 25, 1780,' and added, 'now there is a date;
look at it.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 109. In his reply he wrote:--'London, May 1, 1780. Mark that--you
did not put the year to your last.' Ib. p. 112.

[1299] An Address to the Electors of Southwark. Ib. p. 106. See post, p. 440.

[1300] The author of the Fitzosborne Letters (post, May 5, 1784, note). Miss Burney thus describes
this evening:--'We were appointed to meet the Bishop of Chester at Mrs. Montagu's. This proved
a very gloomy kind of grandeur; the Bishop waited for Mrs. Thrale to speak, Mrs. Thrale for
the Bishop; so neither of them spoke at all. Mrs. Montagu cared not a fig, as long as she spoke
herself, and so she harangued away. Meanwhile Mr. Melmoth, the Pliny Melmoth, as he is called,
was of the party, and seemed to think nobody half so great as himself. He seems intolerably
self-sufficient--appears to look upon himself as the first man in Bath, and has a proud conceit
in look and manner, mighty forbidding.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 348.

[1301] Dr. John Hinchliffe. BOSWELL.

[1302] A kind of nick-name given to Mrs. Thrale's eldest daughter, whose name being Esther,
she might be assimilated to a Queen. BOSWELL.

[1303] Mr. Thrale. BOSWELL.

[1304] In Johnson's Dictionary is neither dawling nor dawdling. He uses dawdle, post, June 3, 1781.

[1305] Miss Burney shews how luxurious a table Mr. Thrale kept. 'We had,' she records, in May
1779, 'a very grand dinner to-day, though nothing to a Streatham dinner, at the Ship Tavern
[Brighton], where the officers mess, to which we were invited by the major and the captain.'
As the major was a man of at least L8,000 a-year, and the captain of L4,000 or L5,000, the
dinner was likely to be grand enough. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 211. Yet when Mr. Thrale had
his first stroke in 1779, Johnson wrote:--'I am the more alarmed by this violent seizure, as
I can impute it to no wrong practices, or intemperance of any kind.... What can he reform?
or what can he add to his regularity and temperance? He can only sleep less.' Piozzi Letters,
ii. 49, 51. Baretti, in a MS. note on p. 51, says:--'Dr. Johnson knew that Thrale would eat
like four, let physicians preach.... May be he did not know it, so little did he mind what
people were doing. Though he sat by Thrale at dinner, he never noticed whether he eat much
or little. A strange man!' Yet in a note on p. 49, Baretti had said that Thrale's seizure was
caused by 'the mere grief he could not overcome of his only son's loss. Johnson knew it, but
would not tell it.' See post, iv. 84, note 4.

[1306] Miss Burney.

[1307] I have taken the liberty to leave out a few lines. BOSWELL. Lines about diet and physic.

[1308] See ante, ii. 61, note 4.

[1309] The author of Fables for the Female Sex, and of the tragedy of The Gamester, and editor
of The World. Goldsmith, in his Present State of Polite Learning (ch. x.), after describing
the sufferings of authors, continues:--'Let us not then aggravate those natural inconveniences
by neglect; we have had sufficient instances of this kind already. Sale and Moore will suffice
for one age at least. But they are dead and their sorrows are over.' Mr. Foster (Life of Goldsmith,
ed. 1871, ii, 484) strangely confounds Edward Moore the fabulist, with Dr. John More the author
of Zeluco.

[1310] Line of a song in The Spectator, No. 470. CROKER.

[1311] Hannah More, in 1783 (Memoirs, i. 286), describes 'Mrs. Vesey's pleasant parties. It
is a select society which meets at her house every other Tuesday, on the day on which the Turk's
Head Club dine together. In the evening they all meet at Mrs. Vesey's, with the addition of
such other company as it is difficult to find elsewhere.'

[1312] Second Earl Spencer; the First Lord of the Admiralty under Pitt, and father of Lord
Althorp who was leader of the House of Commons under Earl Grey.

[1313] see ante p. 390.

[1314] Her childhood was celebrated by Prior in the lines beginning:-- 'My noble, lovely little
Peggy.' CROKER.

[1315] Horace Walpole (Letters, vii. 510) wrote on Feb. 5, 1781:--'I saw Dr. Johnson last night
at Lady Lucan's, who had assembled a blue stocking meeting in imitation of Mrs. Vesey's Babels.
It was so blue, it was quite Mazarine-blue. Mrs. Montagu kept aloof from Johnson, like the
west from the east.' In his letter of Jan. 14 (ib. p. 497), the allusion to Mrs. Vesey's Babels
is explained: 'Mrs. Montagu is one of my principal entertainments at Mrs. Vesey's, who collects
all the graduates and candidates for fame, where they vie with one another, till they are as
unintelligible as the good folks at Babel.' 'Lady Spencer,' said Samuel Rogers, 'recollected
Johnson well, as she used to see him often in her girlhood. Her mother, Lady Lucan, would say,
"Nobody dines with us to-day; therefore, child, we'll go and get Dr. Johnson." So they would
drive to Bolt Court and bring the doctor home with them.' Rogers's Table Talk, p. 10. 'I told
Lady Lucan,' wrote Johnson on April 25, 1780, 'how long it was since she sent to me; but she
said I must consider how the world rolls about her. She seemed pleased that we met again.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 107.

[1316] 'I have seen,' wrote Wraxall, 'the Duchess of Devonshire, then in the first bloom of
youth, hanging on the sentences that fell from Johnson's lips, and contending for the nearest
place to his chair. All the cynic moroseness of the philosopher and the moralist seemed to
dissolve under so flattering an approach.' Wraxall's Memoirs, ed. 1815, i. 158.

[1317] In Nichols's Lit. Anec. viii. 548, 9, Dr. Barnard is thus described:--'In powers of
conversation I never yet knew his equal. He saw infinite variety of characters, and like Shakespeare
adopted them all by turns for comic effect. He carried me to London in a hired chaise; we rose
from our seat, and put our heads out of the windows, while the postboy removed something under
us. He supposed himself in the pillory, and addressed the populace against the government with
all the cant of No. 45 and Co. He once told me a little anecdote of the original Parson Adams,
whom he knew. "Oh, Sir!" said he to Barnard, almost in a whisper, and with a look of horror,
"would you believe it, Sir, he was wicked from a boy;" then going up close to him, "You will
be shocked--you will not believe it,--he wrote God with a little g, when he was ten years old!"'

[1318] In Mr. Croker's editions, 'had taken a chair' is changed into 'had taken the chair,'
and additional emphasis is given by printing these four words in italics.

[1319] The hostess must have suffered, for, according to Miss Burney, 'Lord Harcourt said,
"Mrs. Vesey's fear of ceremony is really troublesome; for her eagerness to break a circle is
such that she insists upon everybody's sitting with their backs one to another; that is, the
chairs are drawn into little parties of three together, in a confused manner all over the room."'
Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 184. Miss Burney thus describes her:--'She has the most wrinkled,
sallow, time-beaten face I ever saw. She is an exceeding well-bred woman, and of agreeable
manners; but all her name in the world must, I think, have been acquired by her dexterity and
skill in selecting parties, and by her address in rendering them easy with one another.' Ib.
p. 244. She heard her say of a gentleman who had lately died:--'It's a very disagreeable thing,
I think, when one has just made acquaintance with anybody and likes them, to have them die.'
Ib. ii. 290.

[1320] Johnson passed over this scene very lightly. 'On Sunday evening I was at Mrs. Vesey's,
and there was inquiry about my master, but I told them all good. There was Dr. Barnard of Eton,
and we made a noise all the evening; and there was Pepys, and Wraxall till I drove him away.'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 98. Wraxall was perhaps thinking of this evening when he wrote (Memoirs,
ed. 1815, i. 147):--'Those whom he could not always vanquish by the force of his intellect,
by the depth and range of his arguments, and by the compass of his gigantic faculties, he silenced
by rudeness; and I have myself more than once stood in the predicament which I here describe.
Yet no sooner was he withdrawn, and with him had disappeared these personal imperfections,
than the sublime attainments of his mind left their full effect on the audience: such the whole
assembly might be in some measure esteemed while he was present.'

[1321] Among the provisions thus relaxed was one that subjected Popish priests, or Papists
keeping school, to perpetual imprisonment. Those only enjoyed the benefit of the act who took
a very strict test, in which, among other things, they denied the Pope's temporal and civil
jurisdiction within this realm. This bill passed both Houses without a single negative. It
applied only to England. Scotland was alarmed by the report that the Scotch Catholics were
in like manner to be relieved. In Edinburgh and Glasgow the Papists suffered from outrageous
acts of violence and cruelty, and government did not think it advisable to repress this persecution
by force. The success of these Scotch bigots seems to have given the first rise to the Protestant
Association in England. Ann. Reg. xxiii. 254-6. How slight 'the relaxation' was in England
is shewn by Lord Mansfield's charge on Lord George Gordon's trial, where we learn that the
Catholics were still subject to all the penalties created in the reigns of Elizabeth, James
I, Charles II, and of the first ten years of William III. Ib. xxiv. 237. Hannah More (Memoirs,
i. 326), four years after the riots, wrote:--'I have had a great many prints, pamphlets, &c.,
sent me from Rouen; but, unluckily for me, the sender happened to have put a popish prayer-book
among my things, which were therefore, by being caught in bad company, all found guilty of
popery at Brighthelmstone, and condemned to be burnt to my great regret.' They were burnt in
accordance with sect. 25 of 3 Jac. I. c. 4. This act was only repealed in to 1846 (9 and 10.
Rep. c. 59. s. i).

[1322] Vol. ii. p. 143, et seq. I have selected passages from several letters, without mentioning
dates. BOSWELL.

[1323] June 2. BOSWELL. Johnson wrote on June 9.

[1324] See post, p. 435.

[1325] On this day (June 6) Johnson, writing to Mrs. Thrale at Bath, did not mention the riots.
He gives the date very fully--'London, No. 8, Bolt-court, Fleet-street, June 6, 1780,' and
adds:--'Mind this, and tell Queency [Miss Thrale].' Piozzi Letters, ii. 141. Miss Burney, who
was with the Thrales, writes:--'Dr. Johnson has written to Mrs. Thrale, without even mentioning
the existence of this mob; perhaps, at this very moment, he thinks it "a humbug upon the nation,"
as George Bodens called the Parliament.' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 401. When Johnson wrote,
the mob had not risen to its height of violence. Mrs. Thrale in her answer, giving the date,
'Bath, 3 o'clock on Saturday morning, June 10, 1780,' asks, 'Oh! my dear Sir, was I ever particular
in dating a letter before? and is this a time to begin to be particular when I have been up
all night in trembling agitation? Miss Burney is frighted, but she says better times will come;
she made me date my letter so, and persists in hoping that ten years hence we shall all three
read it over together and be merry. But, perhaps, you will ask, "who is consternated,"? as
you did about the French invasion.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 146.

[1326] 'Lord Mansfield's house,' wrote Dr. Franklin from Paris (Memoirs, iii. 62), 'is burnt
with all his furniture, pictures, books, and papers. Thus he who approved the burning American
houses has had fire brought home to him.'

[1327] Baretti in a marginal note on mass-house, says, 'So illiberal was Johnson made by religion
that he calls here the chapel a mass-house.... Yet he hated the Presbyterians. That was a nasty
blot in his character.'

[1328] Horace Walpole this night (June 7) wrote:--'Yet I assure your Ladyship there is no panic.
Lady Aylesbury has been at the play in the Haymarket, and the Duke and my four nieces at Ranelagh
this evening.' Letters, vii. 388. The following Monday he wrote:--'Mercy on us! we seem to
be plunging into the horrors of France, in the reigns of Charles VI. and VII.!--yet, as extremes
meet, there is at this moment amazing insensibility. Within these four days I have received
five applications for tickets to see my house!' Ib. p. 395.

[1329] Written on June 10.

[1330] In the original, 'was this day with a party of soldiers.'

[1331] In the original, 'We are all again.'

[1332] Written on June 12.

[1333] George III told Lord Eldon that at a levee 'he asked Wilkes after his friend Serjeant
Glynne. "My friend, Sir!" says Wilkes to the King; "he is no friend of mine." "Why," said the
King, "he was your friend and your counsel in all your trials." "Sir," rejoined Wilkes, "he
was my counsel--one must have a counsel; but he was no friend; he loves sedition and licentiousness
which I never delighted in. In fact, Sir, he was a Wilkite, which I never was." The King said
the confidence and humour of the man made him forget at the moment his impudence.' Twiss's
Eldon, ii. 356.

[1334] Lord George Gordon and his followers, during these outrages, wore blue ribbands in their
hats. MALONE.

[1335] Johnson added:--'All danger here is apparently over; but a little agitation still continues.
National prejudices, I know, are very vulgar; but if there are national characteristics, can
one but dislike the soils and climates that concur to produce them?' Letters, vii. 400.

[1336] He died Nov. 19, 1792, and left 'about, L20,000 accumulated not parsimoniously, but
during a very long possession of a profitable office.' His father, who was keeper before him,
began as a turnkey. Gent. Mag. 1792, p. 1062. Wesley wrote on Jan. 2, 1761:--'Of all the seats
of woe on this side hell, few, I suppose, exceed or even equal Newgate. If any region of horror
could exceed it a few years ago, Newgate in Bristol did; so great was the filth, the stench,
the misery, and wickedness which shocked all who had a spark of humanity left.' He described
a great change for the better which had lately been made in the London Newgate. Perhaps it
was due to Akerman. Wesley's Journal, iii. 32.

[1337] There were two city prisons so called.

[1338] In the first two editions will. Boswell, in the third edition, corrected most of his
Scotticisms.

[1339] In the Life of Savage (Works, viii. 183) Johnson wrote of the keeper of the Bristol
gaol:--'Virtue is undoubtedly most laudable in that state which makes it most difficult; and
therefore the humanity of a gaoler certainly deserves this publick attestation; and the man
whose heart has not been hardened by such an employment may be justly proposed as a pattern
of benevolence. If an inscription was once engraved "to the honest toll-gatherer," less honours
ought not to be paid "to the tender gaoler."' This keeper, Dagge by name, was one of Whitefield's
disciples. In 1739 Whitefield wrote:--'God having given me great favour in the gaoler's eyes,
I preached a sermon on the Penitent Thief, to the poor prisoners in Newgate.' He began to read
prayers and preach to them every day, till the Mayor and Sheriffs forbade Mr. Dagge to allow
him to preach again. Tyerman's Whitefield, i. 179.

[1340] Vol. ii. p. 163. Mrs. Piozzi has omitted the name, she best knows why. BOSWELL.

[1341] Now settled in London. BOSWELL.

[1342] I had been five years absent from London. BEATTIE.

[1343] '--sic fata ferebant.' AEneid, ii. 34.

[1344] Meaning his entertaining Memoirs of David Garrick, Esq., of which Johnson (as Davies
informed me) wrote the first sentence; thus giving, as it were, the key-note performance. It
is, indeed, very characteristical of its authour, beginning with a maxim, and proceeding to
illustrate.--'All excellence has a right to be recorded. I shall, therefore, think it superfluous
to apologise for writing the life of a man, who by an uncommon assemblage of private virtues,
adorned the highest eminence in a publick profession.' BOSWELL.

[1345] Davies had become bankrupt. See ante, p. 223. Young, in his first Epistle to Pope, says:--

'For bankrupts write when ruined shops are shut As maggots crawl from out a perished nut.'

Davies's Memoirs of Garrick, published this spring, reached its third edition by the following
year.

[1346] I wish he had omitted the suspicion expressed here, though I believe he meant nothing
but jocularity; for though he and I differed sometimes in opinion, he well knew how much I
loved and revered him. BEATTIE.

[1347] The Thrales fled from Bath where a riot had broken out, and travelled about the country
in alarm for Mr. Thrale's 'personal safety,' as it had been maliciously asserted in a Bath
and Bristol paper that he was a Papist. Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 399.

[1348] On May 30 he wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'I have been so idle that I know not when I shall
get either to you, or to any other place; for my resolution is to stay here till the work is
finished.... I hope, however, to see standing corn in some part of the earth this summer, but
I shall hardly smell hay, or suck clover flowers.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 140.

[1349] It will, no doubt, be remarked how he avoids the rebellious land of America. This puts
me in mind of an anecdote, for which I am obliged to my worthy social friend, Governour Richard
Penn: 'At one of Miss E. Hervey's assemblies, Dr. Johnson was following her up and down the
room; upon which Lord Abingdon observed to her, "Your great friend is very fond of you; you
can go no where without him."--"Ay, (said she), he would follow me to any part of the world."--"Then
(said the Earl), ask him to go with you to America.'" BOSWELL. This lady was the niece of Johnson's
friends the Herveys [ante, i. 106]. CROKER.

[1350] Essays on the History of Mankind. BOSWELL. Johnson could scarcely have known that Dunbar
was an active opponent of the American war. Mackintosh, who was his pupil, writes of him:--'I
shall ever be grateful to his memory for having contributed to breathe into my mind a strong
spirit of liberty.' Mackintosh's Life, i. 12. The younger Colman, who attended, or rather neglected
to attend his lectures, speaks of him as 'an acute frosty-faced little Dr. Dunbar, a man of
much erudition, and great goodnature.' Random Records, ii. 93.

[1351] Mr. Seward (Biographiana, p. 601) says that this clergyman was 'the son of an old and
learned friend of his'--the Rev. Mr. Hoole, I conjecture.

[1352] See post, iv. 12, and Boswell's Hebrides, Aug. 19.

[1353] Dr. Percy, now Bishop of Dromore. BOSWELL

[1354] Johnson, in 1764, passed some weeks at Percy's rectory. Ante, i. 486.

[1355] See ante, p. 366.

[1356] See ante,, i. 458

[1357] 'O praeclarum diem quum ad illud divinum animorum concilium c'tumque profiscar.' Cicero's
De Senectute, c. 23.

[1358] See ante, p. 396.

[1359] See ante, ii. 162.

[1360] I had not then seen his letters to Mrs. Thrale. BOSWELL.

[1361] In the Life of Edmund Smith. See ante, i. 81, and Johnson's Works, vii. 380.

[1362] Unlike Walmsley and Johnson, of whom one was a Whig, the other a Tory. 'Walmsley was
a Whig,' wrote Johnson, 'with all the virulence and malevolence of his party; yet difference
of opinion did not keep us apart. I honoured him, and he endured me.'

[1363] See ante, ii. 169, note 2.

[1364] Miss Burney described an evening spent by Johnson at Dr. Burney's some weeks earlier:--'He
was in high spirits and good humour, talked all the talk, affronted nobody, and delighted everybody.
I never saw him more sweet, nor better attended to by his audience.' In December she wrote:--'Dr.
Johnson is very gay, and sociable, and comfortable, and quite as kind to me as ever.' A little
later she wrote to Mrs. Thrale:--'Does Dr. Johnson continue gay and good-humoured, and "valuing
nobody" in a morning?' Mme. D'Arblay's Diary, i. 412, 429, 432.

[1365] Pr. and Med. p. 185. BOSWELL.

[1366] See Boswell's Hebrides, Oct. 27.

[1367] The Charterhouse.

[1368] Macbean was, on Lord Thurlow's nomination, admitted 'a poor brother of the Charterhouse.'
Ante, i. 187. Johnson, on Macbean's death on June 26, 1784, wrote:--'He was one of those who,
as Swift says, stood as a screen between me and death. He has, I hope, made a good exchange.
He was very pious; he was very innocent; he did no ill; and of doing good a continual tenour
of distress allowed him few opportunities; he was very highly esteemed in the house [the Charterhouse].'
Piozzi Letters, ii. 373. The quotation from Swift is found in the lines On the Death of Dr.
Swift:--

'The fools, my juniors by a year, Are tortured with suspense and fear, Who wisely thought my
age a screen, When death approached, to stand between.'

Swift's Works, ed. 1803, xi. 246.

[1369] Johnson, in May, had persuaded Mrs. Thrale to come up from Bath to canvass for Mr. Thrale.
'My opinion is that you should come for a week, and show yourself, and talk in high terms.
Be brisk, and be splendid, and be publick. The voters of the Borough are too proud and too
little dependant to be solicited by deputies; they expect the gratification of seeing the candidate
bowing or curtseying before them. If you are proud, they can be sullen. Mr. Thrale certainly
shall not come, and yet somebody must appear whom the people think it worth the while to look
at.' Piozzi Letters, ii. 114.

[1370] Hawkins's Johnsons Works, xi. 206. It is curious that Psalmanazar, in his Memoirs, p.
101, uses the mongrel word transmogrify.

[1371] Taylor's Life of Reynolds, ii. 459.

[1372] Boswell, when in the year 1764 he was starting from Berlin for Geneva, wrote to Mr.
Mitchell, the English Minister at Berlin:--'I shall see Voltaire; I shall also see Switzerland
and Rousseau. These two men are to me greater objects than most statues or pictures.' Nichols's
Lit. Hist. ed. 1848, vii. 319.

[1373] See post, iv. 261, note 3 for Boswell's grievance against Pitt.

THE END OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

