American improvements are the wonder of the world. America seems to have the knack of taking
hold of old stuff and turning it into something full of pep and punch. You remember a play
called Hamlet? No? Well, there is a scene in it, rather an impressive scene, where a man chats
with his father's ghost. Mr. ROBERT W. CHAMBERS, America's brightest novelist, has taken much
the same idea and put a bit of zip in it. In his latest work, Athalie (APPLETON), the heroine,
who is clairvoyant, sees the ghost of the hero's mother, who prevented the hero from marrying
her, and cuts it. In all my researches in modern fiction I cannot recall a more dramatic and
satisfying situation. It is, I believe, the first instance on record of a spectre being snubbed.
SHAKSPEARE never thought of anything like that. As regards the other aspects of Athalie, the
book, I cannot see what else a reviewer can say but that it is written by Mr. CHAMBERS. The
world is divided into those who read every line Mr. CHAMBERS writes, irrespective of its merits,
and those who would require to be handsomely paid before reading a paragraph by him. A million
eager shop-girls, school-girls, chorus-girls, factory-girls and stenographers throughout America
are probably devouring Athalie at this moment. My personal opinion that the book is a potboiler,
turned out on a definite formula, like all of Mr. CHAMBERS' recent work, to meet a definite
demand, cannot deter a single one of them from sobbing over it. As for that section of the
public which remembers The King in Yellow and Cardigan, it has long ago become resigned to
Mr. CHAMBERS' decision to take the cash and let the credit go, and has ceased to hope for a
return on his part to the artistic work of his earlier period, when he wrote novels as opposed
to Best Sellers.

       *       *       *       *       *

Let me heartily commend to you a book of stories by doughty penmen turned swordsmen for the
period of the War--A. E. W. MASON, of the Manchester Regiment; A. A. M., of the Royal Warwicks;
W. B. MAXWELL, Royal Fusilier; IAN HAY, A. and S. HIGHLANDER; COMPTON MACKENZIE, R.N.; "Q.,"
of the Duke of Cornwall's L.I.; OLIVER ONIONS, A.S.C.; BARRY PAIN, R.N.A.S.; and just short
of a dozen others. Published by Messrs. HODDER AND STOUGHTON, under title, The Red Cross Story
Book, to be sold for the benefit of The Times Fund. It's the sort of book about which even
the most conscientious reviewer feels he can honestly say nice things without any too thorough
examination of the contents. With that thought I started turning over the pages casually, but
found myself dipping deeper and deeper, until, becoming entirely absorbed, I abandoned all
pretence of professional detachment and had a thoroughly good time. I should like to be able
to state that the quality of these stories of humour, adventure and sentiment was uniform,
if only for the sake of this appropriate word. But I can say that the best are excellent, the
average is high, and the tenor so varied as to suit almost any age and taste.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. B. G. O'RORKE, Chaplain to the Forces, has written a short account of his experiences in
confinement--In The Hands of the Enemy (LONGMANS). Seeing that he was allowed, as a minister
of religion, unique opportunities of meeting our officers (though not men of the ranks) shut
up in different fortresses, and particularly because he has been thoughtful enough to mention
many of them by name, his narrative is one which nobody with near friends now in Germany can
afford to miss. The general reader, on the other hand, may have to confess to some disappointment,
since the foggy shadow of the Censor, German or English, still looms over the pages here and
there, blotting out the sensational episodes which we felt we had reason, if not right, to
expect; and if their absence is really due to Mr. O'RORKE'S steady refusal to indulge us by
embellishing his almost too unvarnished recital the effect is just the same. Or perhaps the
suggestion of flatness is to be ascribed to the enemy's failure on the whole to treat certain
of his victims in any very extraordinary manner, and if so we can accept it and be thankful.
There are lots of interesting passages all the same, such as the account of the specially favourable
treatment of officers from Irish regiments, accorded in all Teutonic seriousness as preparatory
to an invitation to serve in the ranks of Prussia; or the pathetic incident of the white-haired
French priest sent to the cells for urging his congregation to pray pour nos âmes. Nowhere
outside the Fatherland, I should imagine, would prisoners be forbidden to pray even pour nos
armes, and the stupidity of the misunderstanding is typical enough. The cheerful dignity shown
by prisoners under provocation makes a fine contrast to such pitiful smallness, and of that
this little book is a notable record.

       *       *       *       *       *

I suppose it would not be possible to travel in the Pacific without a fountain-pen and a note-book.
At all events this seems a privation from which the staunchest of our literary adventurers
have hitherto shrunk. Do not however regard this as anything more than a casual observation,
certainly not as implying any complaint against so agreeable a volume as Voyaging in Wild Seas
(MILLS AND BOON). There must be many among the countless admirers of Mr. JACK LONDON who will
be delighted to read this intimate journal of his travellings in remote waters, written by
the wife who accompanied him, and who is herself, as she proves on many pages, one of the most
enthusiastic of those admirers. You may say there is nothing very much in it all, but just
some pleasant sea-prattle about interesting ports and persons, and a number of photographs
rather more intimate than those that generally illustrate the published travel-book. But the
general impression is jolly. Stevensonians will be especially curious over the visit to Samoa,
concerning her first impressions of which Mrs. LONDON writes: "As the Snark slid along, we
began to exclaim at the magnificent condition of this German province--the leagues of copra
plantation, extending from the shore up into the mountainous hinterland, thousands of close-crowded
acres of heavy green palms." This was in May, 1908. Vailima was at that time the residence
of the German Governor (a desecration since happily removed); but the LONDONS were able to
explore the gardens and peep in at the rooms whose planning STEVENSON had so enjoyed. Later
of course they climbed to the lonely mountain grave of "the little great man"--a phrase oddly
reminiscent of one in an unpublished letter of RUPERT BROOKE (about the same expedition) that
I had just been reading. Mrs. LONDON deserves our thanks for letting us share so interesting
a holiday in these restricted days.

       *       *       *       *       *

N MEMORY OF "MARTIN ROSS"

(Violet Martin).

  With Flurry's Hounds, and you our guide,
  We've learned to laugh until we cried;
  Dear MARTIN ROSS, the coming years
  Find all our laughter lost in tears.