Writhlington, a small colliery village on a hill 1 m. E. of Radstock. The church, rebuilt in
1874, lies in a valley at the bottom of a steep lane, half a mile from the village. Near the
church is an old manor house, at which Cromwell is said to have stopped on his march into Somerset.

Wyke Champflower (or Wyke Chapel), a hamlet 1-1/2 m. W. of Bruton. The little chapel, said
to have been built in 1482, was rebuilt in 1623. It contains a stone pulpit, and the ceiling
is ornamented with nine escutcheons, including those of the Tudor sovereigns. There is an old
black-letter Bible of 1623.

Yarlington, a village 3 m. S.E. from Castle Cary. The church, which has been much altered and
enlarged, contains a finely carved font. In the wall of the churchyard is an old stone coffin,
found during the restoration of the building.

Yatton, a large village (with a station), 12 m. S.W. of Bristol. The first syllable is perhaps
the same as the second part of Symond's Yat. The place has an interesting church, with a central
tower which is rendered conspicuous by being surmounted by a truncated spire, and by having
its stair-case attached to a diagonal buttress (instead of replacing it, as is usual). The
plan of the church is cruciform, the transepts and chancel being short, and the latter very
low. The oldest part is the base of the tower, which belongs to the E.E. or Dec. period; and
there is a very good Dec. window in the S. transept; the remainder of the building is Perp.
Externally, the most impressive feature is the W. front, with turrets at the corners (as at
Crewkerne), a recessed and richly carved doorway, and above the window a representation of
the Father holding the crucified Son (cp. S. Brent). The S. door has a groined and panelled
porch, and the N. door an ogee moulding. Within, the nave is lofty, with slender pilasters
ascending to the roof. In the N. transept is the alabaster tomb of Sir Richard Newton (d. 1448)
and his wife; and under foliated recesses a male and female effigy (attributed to the 13th
cent.). Attached to this transept is a chapel which is noticeable for being loftier than the
adjoining chancel, and has a fine turret at its N.E. angle. It contains a pillar-piscina, and
the tomb of Sir John Newton (son of Sir Richard) and his lady, above which is a relief of the
Annunciation. S.E. of the church is the Rectory, dating from the 15th cent., whilst on the
N. are some old alms-houses.

YEOVIL, a town of some importance on the river Yeo, in the S.E. corner of the county, doing
a considerable trade in the manufacture of leather and kid gloves. Its population in 1901 was
9838. It lies chiefly on a slope which shelves down towards the little stream from which it
takes its name. The G.W.R. and L. and S.W.R. have a joint station in the town, and another
G.W.R. station is at Pen Mill just outside. Yeovil seems to have outgrown its original intentions
and is still rapidly increasing. The older streets have the usual congested appearance of a
small country town, but more spacious thoroughfares are now spreading outwards in every direction.
The chief glory of the place is its fine church, remarkable alike for architecture and situation.
It is a cruciform Perp. building, said to date from 1376, with a severe-looking W. tower. The
interior is of great impressiveness owing to the size of its windows and the loftiness of its
arches. The most noteworthy feature of the church is its 13th-cent. crypt, now used as a vestry.
A groined roof rises from a central pillar, and the entrance to the communicating stairway
is groined also. Otherwise the church, though noble as a whole, is somewhat devoid of objects
of interest. Note, however (1) the fine roof, (2) old brass lectern with ungrammatical inscription,
(3) 16th-cent. brass on floor of chancel, (4) 15th-cent. brass to an ecclesiastic. Yeovil contains
few old houses, as it was burnt out in the 15th cent., but in Middle Street two buildings deserve
attention: (a) an old chantry house, now transformed into the "Castle" Inn, (b) almost immediately
opposite, the "George," a good specimen of an old half-timbered hostelry. Some alms-houses
in Bond Street, called Woborne's alms-houses, go back, as a foundation, to the reign of Edward
IV. (1476). A good view of the low lying alluvial plain which stretches around the foot of
Glastonbury Tor may be obtained by following for a short distance the road to Mudford. But
this is only one of the many interesting walks in the neighbourhood: Yeovil is a good centre
for excursions, and Windmill and Summerhouse Hills should both be climbed.

Yeovilton, a parish 2 m. E. of Ilchester. Its church retains but few features of interest,
but notice should be taken of (1) the remains of the stoups in the N. porch and at the W. door;
(2) the two piscinas (that in the chancel has a quaint carving below it); (3) the bracket in
the S. wall of the nave, and the old corbels built into the walls of the chancel; (4) the fragments
of ancient glass in the W. and E. windows, the former displaying the arms of Bishop Beckington,
and the latter having the letters R.S. and the figure of a swan, the initials and rebus of
Richard Swan (one of Bishop Beckington's executors), who was rector here. There is also an
incised slab to the memory of Sir John Hunt of Speckington (d. 1626). One of the bells dates
from 1435.

APPENDIX

Places of interest mentioned in the text, but not entered under separate headings in the alphabetical
list. The figures refer to pages.

Alfoxden                156 Allerford               209 Barlynch Priory         122 Blackmoor
Farm           75 Bower Farm              127 Brymore House            77 Cockercombe     
213 Combwich                201 Creech Hill             130 Danesborough            214 Devil's
Punch Bowl  80, 182 Dundon Beacon           107 Ebbor Rocks             283 Gaulden Farm  
246 Goblin Combe             98 Gothelney Hall           83 Gurney Street Farm       78 Halsway
56 Halswell House          146 Hanging Chapel          169 Hare Knap               156 Hautville's
Quoit       224 Hestercombe             167 Higher Wadeford         106 Holwell Cavern    
32 King Ina's Palace       205 Lamb's Lair         80, 149 Lytes Cary House         84 Malmesmead
199 Marshwood Farm           78 Mouncey Castle          122 Mynchin Buckland        127 Naish
Priory            105 Parkfield Monument      117 Richmont Castle         149 Sedgemoor   
18, 88, 273 Seven Wells Combe       213 Sexey's Hospital         68 Small Down            
90 Stantonbury             225 Stoney Littleton        254 Sutton Court            234 Tarr
Steps              122 Walton Castle           103 Wansdyke        11, 52, 129 Weary All Hill
145

INDEX OF PERSONS

A

Aethelm, Bp. Aldhelm, Bp. Alfred, King Allen, Ralph Alphege, Archbp. Arthur, King Asser, Bp.
Audley, Lord Austen, Jane

B

Bacon, Roger Bagehot, Walter Barbara, Saint Barlow, Bp. Barnes, Bartholomew Beaufort, Cardinal
Beckford, William Beckington, Bp. Bennett, Rev. W.J. Bere, Abbot Berkeley family Berkley, Sir
M. Bird, Prior Bisse, George Blake, Robert Blanchard, William Botreaux, Sir W. Bradney, Joel
de Bray, Sir R. Brett, John Bridport, Visct. Brito (Brett) Briewere, William de Bubwith, Bp.
Buckingham, Duke of Buckland, Walter Burgess, Dean Burnell, Bp. Burne-Jones Butler, Bp. Byam,
Rector Bytton, Bp.

C

