Fig. 2 shows the arrangement of the electric lamp. A is the automatic regulator; B, the reflector;
C, top extension of the reflector; D, small tissue paper screen to prevent the intense arc-rays
from coming in contact with the sitter; E, stand with sliding rod. This appendage can be wheeled
about with ease, as it is arranged to run upon four casters.

When the generator is in use it may be placed within easy reach of the operator, so that the
exposure may be made by lowering the elements in their troughs just for the requisite time,
and withdrawing immediately the exposure is made; there is no need to fear any inconvenience
from deleterious fumes as none are given off, so it may be used in any studio or sitting-room
without any inconvenience from this source, and as far as many trials have gone, it seems to
meet every requirement demanded by the photographer for the production of portraits by means
of the electric light.--Photo. News.

       *       *       *       *       *

DESRUELLES'S ELECTRIC LIGHTER

The little apparatus shown in the accompanying cut will certainly find favor with smokers,
as well as with persons generally who often have need of a fire or light. It forms one of the
most direct applications of dry piles of all the systems on the Desruelles plan. Instead of
filling piles with a liquid, this plan contemplates the introduction into them of a sort of
asbestos sponge saturated with an acid or any suitable solution. In this way there is obtained
the advantage of having a pile which is in some sort dry, that may be moved, shaken, or upset
without any outflow of liquid, and which will prove of special value when applied to movable
apparatus, such as portable lighters, alarms on ships, railroads, etc. It is hardly necessary
to say that while the introduction of this inert substance diminishes the volume of the liquid,
the electro-motive force of the pile is thereby in nowise affected, but its internal resistance
is increased. This, however, is of no consequence in the application under consideration. The
lighter consists of a small, round, wooden box containing the pile, and surmounted by a spirit
lamp. A platinum spiral opposite the wick serves for producing the light. The pile is a bichromate
of potash element, in which there is substituted for the liquid a solution of bichromate identical
with that used in bottle piles. The zinc is suspended from a small lever, in which it is only
necessary to press slightly to bring the former in contact with the asbestos paste, when, the
zinc being attached, a current is set up which traverses the spiral, heats it to redness, and
lights the spirit. The pile, when once charged, may be used for several hundred lightings.
When the spiral no longer becomes red hot, it is only necessary to replace the paste--an operation
of extreme simplicity. When the pressure is removed from the little lever, the zinc, being
raised, is no longer acted upon by the liquid with which the asbestos is saturated. Mr Desruelles
is constructing upon the same principle a gas lighter, the pile of which is fixed at the extremity
of a handle whose length varies with the height of the gas burners to be reached. These little
domestic apparatus are being exhibited at the Paris Electrical Exhibition.

       *       *       *       *       *

SOLENOID UNDERGROUND WIRES IN PHILADELPHIA.

The Evening Bulletin of the 29th October has the following:

This afternoon a series of experiments were conducted at the Public Buildings which will be
of great interest to electricians all over the country, and upon which the success of a number
of underground telegraph projects in different parts of the United States depends. In all projects
of this kind the problem which has given most trouble to inventors has been to overcome the
induction. In other words, electric currents will leave their original conductors and pass
to other conductors which may be near at hand. This interchange of currents may take place
without seriously hindering ordinary telegraphy, as the indicators are not delicate enough
to detect the induction. When telephones came into use, however, the induction became a great
source of trouble to electricians, it often being the case that the sounds and influences from
without were sufficient to drown out sounds in a telephone. To-day's experiment was conducted
by Mr. J.F. Shorey, a well-known electrician, who exhibited Dr. Orazio Lugo's cables for electric
light, telephone, and telegraphic purposes.

A large number of prominent electricians were present, including the following: General J.H.
Wilson, President of the N.Y. and N.E. Railroad, of Boston; Messrs. Frank L Pope, S.L.M Barlow,
George B. Post, Charles G. Francklyn, Col. J.F. Casey, W.H. Bradford, and Selim R. Grant, of
New York; James Gamble, General Manager of the Mutual Union Telegraph Co.; T.E. Cornich and
W.D. Sargent, of the Bell Telegraph Co.; S.S. Garwood and J.E. Zeublen, of the Western Union,
and others.

The principal tests were made through the conduits on Market Street, laid by the National Underground
Electric Company as far as Ninth Street. A cable of five conductors was laid through the conduit.
Two of these conductors consisted of simple "circuit wires," while the other three were what
is known as "solenoids." A solenoid wire is a single straight wire, connected at each end with
and wound closely around by another insulated wire, this forming a complete system, the electric
currents returning into themselves. Electricians claim that the solenoid effectually overcomes
all induction, and this afternoon experiments were made for the purpose of proving that assertion.
In the telephones, connected by the ordinary wires, a constant burr and click could be heard,
that sound being the induction from the wires on the poles on Market Street, sixty feet overhead.
With the solenoid the only sound in the telephones was the voices of the persons speaking.
The faintest whispers could be heard distinctly, and the ease and comfort of conversation was
in marked contrast to the other telephone on the ground wires. A set of telegraph indicators
was also attached to the wires in use in the cable. The sounds were transferred from one "ground
wire" to the other, while the solenoids seemed to resist every influence but that directed
upon them by the operators. Another interesting test was made. The electric current for a Hauckhousen
lamp was passed through a long coil of solenoid wire. Separated from this coil by a single
newspaper, lay a coil of wire attached to telephones, yet not a sound could be heard in the
telephones but the voices of the persons using them. The current of electricity created by
a dynamo-electric machine is of necessity a violent one, and in the use of ordinary wires the
induction would be so great that no other sounds could possibly be heard in the telephones.

       *       *       *       *       *

DR. HERZ'S TELEPHONIC SYSTEMS.

In an article by Count du Moncel, published in SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN SUPPLEMENT, No 274, page
4364, the author, after describing Dr. Herz's telephonic systems, deferred to another occasion
the description of a still newer system of the same inventor, because at that time it had not
been protected by patent. In the current number of La Lumière Electrique, Count Moncel returns
to the subject to explain the principles of these new apparatus of Dr. Herz, and says:

I will first recall the fact that Dr. Herz's first system was based upon the ingenious use
(then new) of derivations. The microphone transmitter was placed on a derivation from the current
going to the earth, taken in on leaving the pile, and the different contacts of the microphone
were themselves connected directly and individually with the different elements of the pile.
The telephone receiver was located at the other end of the line, and when this receiver was
a condenser its armatures were, as a consequence of this arrangement, continuously and preventively
polarized, thus making it capable of reproducing conversation.

This arrangement evidently presented its advantages; but it likewise possessed its inconveniences,
one of the most important of these being the necessity of employing rather strong piles and
consequently of exposing the line to those effects of charge which react in so troublesome
a manner in electrical transmissions when they occur on somewhat lengthy lines. Now the fact
should be recalled that Dr. Herz's principal object was the application of the telephone to
long lines, and he has been applying himself to this problem ever since. He at first thought
of employing reversed currents, as in telegraphy; but how was such a result to be attained
with systems based upon the use of sonorously-vibrating transmitters? He might have been able
to solve the problem with the secondary currents of an induction bobbin, as Messrs. Gray, Edison,
and others had done; but then he would no longer have been benefited by those amplifications
which are furnished by the variations of pressure-derivations in microphones, and this led
him to endeavor to increase the effects of the induced currents themselves by prolonging their
duration, or rather by combining them in such a way that they should succeed each other, two
by two, in the same direction; and this is the way he solved the problem in the beginning.

The fact should also be recalled that Dr. Herz had, from his first experiments, recognized
the efficiency of those microphonic contacts that are obtained by the superposition of carbon
disks or other semi-conducting substances. He has employed these under different arrangements
and with very diverse groupings, but, as a general thing, it has been the horizontal arrangement
which has given him the best effects.

Let us suppose, then, that four systems of contacts of this nature are arranged at the four
corners of an ebonite plate, C C (Figs. 1 and 2), at A, A¹, B, B¹, and that they are connected
with each other, as shown in the cuts--that is to say, the upper disks, e, f, g, h, parallel
with the sides of the plate, and the lower disks, A, A¹, B, B¹, diagonally. Let us admit, further,
that the plate pivots about an axis, R; that the disks are traversed by small pins fixed in
the plate; and that small leaden disks rest upon the upper disks. Finally, let us imagine that
the plate is connected at one end, through a rod T, with a telephone diaphragm. Now it will
be readily understood that the vibrations produced by the diaphragm will cause the oscillation
of the plate, C C, and that there will result therefrom, on the part of the disks, two effects
that will succeed one another. The first will be, for the ascending vibrations, an increase
of pressure effected between the disks of the left side, by reason of their force of inertia
being increased by that of the lead disks; and the second will be, for the disks to the right,
and, for the same reason, a reduction of pressure which will take place through resilience,
at the moment of change in direction of the vibrating motions.

