BLACKWOOD'S

EDINBURGH MAGAZINE.

No. CCCXXXV. SEPTEMBER, 1843.   VOL. LIV.

       *       *       *       *       *

"WE ARE ALL LOW PEOPLE THERE."

A TALE OF THE ASSIZES.

IN TWO CHAPTERS.

CHAPTER THE FIRST.

Some time ago, business of an important character carried me to the beautiful and populous
city of ----. I remember to have visited it when I was a child, in the company of a doating
mother, who breathed her last there; and the place, associated with that circumstance, had
ever afterwards been the gloomiest spot in the county of my birth. A calamity such as that
to which I have alluded leaves no half impressions. It stamps itself deep, deep in the human
heart; and a change, scarcely less than organic, for good or ill, is wrought there. Agreeably
with this fact, the scene itself of the event becomes at once, to the survivor, either hallowed
and beloved, or hated and avoided. Not that natural beauty or deformity has any thing to do
in the production of such feelings. They have a mysterious origin, and are, in truth, not to
be accounted for or explained. A father sees the hope and joy of his manhood deposited amongst
the gardens of the soil, and from that moment the fruitful fields and unobstructed sky are
things he cannot gaze upon; whilst the brother, who has lived in the court or alley of a crowded
city with the sister of his infancy, and has buried her, with his burning tears, in the dense
churchyard of the denser street, clings to the neighbourhood, close and unhealthy though it
be, with a love that renders it for him the brightest and the dearest nook of earth. He cannot
quit it, and be at peace. Causes that seem alike, are not always so in their effects. For my
own part, for years after the first bitter lesson of my life became connected with that city,
I could not think of it without pain, or hear its name spoken without suffering a depression
of spirits, as difficult to throw off as are the heavy clouds that follow in the track, and
hide the little light of a December sun. At school, I remember well how grievously I wept upon
the map on which I first saw the word written, and how completely I expunged the characters
from the paper, forbidding my eyes to glance even to the county from which I had erased them.
Time passes, hardening the heart as it rolls over it, and we afford to laugh at the strong
feelings and extravagant views of our youth. It is well, perhaps, that we do so; and yet on
that subject a word or two of profitable matter might be offered, which shall be withholden
now. For many years I have battled through the world, an orphan, on my own account; and it
is not surprising that the vehemence of my early days should have gradually sobered down before
the stern realities that have at every step encountered me. Long before I received the unwelcome
intelligence, that it was literally incumbent upon me to revisit the spot of my beloved mother's
dissolution, the mention of its name had ceased to evoke any violent emotion, or to affect
me as of old. I say unwelcome, because, notwithstanding the stoicism of which I boast, I felt
quite uncomfortable enough to write to my correspondent by the return of post, urging him to
make one more endeavour to complete my business without my aid, and to spare, if possible,
my personal attendance. I gave no reason for this wish. I did not choose to tell a falsehood,
and I had hardly honesty to acknowledge, even to myself--the truth. I failed, however, in my
application, and with any but a cheerful mind, I quitted London on my journey. Thirty years
before I had travelled to ---- in a stupendous machine, of which now I recollect only that
it seemed to take years out of my little life in arriving at its destination, and that, on
its broad, substantial rear, it bore the effigy of "an ancient Briton." Locomotion then, like
me, was in a state of infancy. On the occasion of my second visit to the city, I had hardly
time to wonder at the velocity with which I was borne along. Distance was annihilated. The
two hundred miles over which the ancient Briton had wearisomely laboured, were reduced to twenty,
and before I could satisfy myself that our journey was more than begun, my horseless coach,
and fifty more besides, had actually gone over them. I experienced a nervous palpitation at
the heart as I proceeded from the outskirts of the city, and grew more and more fidgety the
nearer I approached the din and noise of the prosperous seat of business. I could not account
for the feeling, until I detected myself walking as briskly as I could, with my eyes fixed
hard upon the ground, as though afraid to glance upon a street, a house, an object which could
recall the past, or carry me back to the first dark days of life. Then it was that I summoned
courage, and, with a desperate effort to crush the morbid sensibility, raised myself to my
full height, gazed around me, and awoke, effectually and for ever, from my dream. The city
was not the same. The well-remembered thoroughfares were gone; their names extinct, and superseded
by others more euphonic; the buildings, which I had carried in my mind as in a book--the thought
of meeting which had given me so much pain, had been removed--destroyed, and not a brick remained
which I could call a friend, or offer one warm tear, in testimony of old acquaintance. A noble
street, a line of palaces--merchants' palaces--had taken to itself the room of twenty narrow
ways, that, in the good old times, had met and crossed in close, but questionable, friendship.
Bright stone, that in the sunlight shone brighter than itself, flanked every broad and stately
avenue, denoting wealth and high commercial dignity. Every venerable association was swept
away, and nothing remained of the long-cherished and always unsightly picture, but the faint
shadow in my own brain--growing fainter now with every moment, and which the unexpected scene
and new excitement were not slow to obliterate altogether. I breathed more freely as I went
my way, and reached my agent's house at length, lighter of heart than I had been for hours
before. Mr Treherne was a man of business, and a prosperous one too, or surely he had no right
to place before the dozen corpulent gentlemen whom I met on my arrival--a dinner, towards which
the viscera of princes might have turned without ruffling a fold of their intestinal dignity.
I partook of the feast--that is to say, I sat at the groaning table, and, like a cautious and
dyspeptic man, I eat roast beef--toujours roast beef, and nothing else--appeased my thirst
with grateful claret, and retired at last to wholesome sleep and quiet dreams. Not so the corpulent
guests. It may be to my dyspeptic habit, which enables me to be virtuous at a trifling cost,
and to nothing loftier, that I am bound to attribute the feeling with which I invariably sit
down to feasting; be this the fact or not, I confess that a sense of shame, uneasiness, and
dislike, renders an affair of this kind to me the most irksome and unpleasant of enjoyments.
The eagerness of appetite that one can fairly see in the watery and sensual eyes of men to
whom eating has become the aim and joy of their existence--the absorption of every faculty
in the gluttonous pursuit--the animal indulgence and delight--these are sickening; then the
deliberate and cold-blooded torture of the creatures whose marrowy bones are crunched by the
epicure, without a thought of the suffering that preceded his intensely pleasurable emotions,
and the bare mention of which, in this narrative, is almost more than sufficient, then, worst
of all, the wilful prodigality and waste--the wickedness of casting to the dogs the healthy
food for which whole families, widows, and beggared orphans are pining in the neighbouring
street--the guilty indifference of him who finds the wealth for the profusion, and the impudent
recklessness of the underling who abuses it. Such are a few of the causes which concur in giving
to the finest banquet I have seen an aspect not more odious than humiliating; and here I dwell
upon the fact, because the incident which I shall shortly bring before the reader's eye, served
to confirm the feelings which I entertain on this subject, and presented an instructive contrast
to the splendid entertainment which greeted my immediate arrival.

I slept at the house of Mr Treherne, and, on the following morning, was an early riser. I strolled
through the city, and, returning home, found my active friend seated at his breakfast-table,
with a host of papers, and a packet of newly-arrived letters before him. The dinner was no
more like the breakfast, than was my friend in the midst of his guests like my friend alone
with his papers. His meal consisted of one slice of dry toast, and one cup of tea, already
cold. The face that was all smile and relaxation of muscle on the preceding evening, was solemn
and composed. You might have ventured to assert that tea and toast were that man's most stimulating
diet, and that the pleasures of the counting-house were the highest this world could afford
him. I, however, had passed the evening with him, and was better informed. Mr Treherne requested
me to ring the bell. I did so, and his servant speedily appeared with a tray of garnished dainties,
of which I was invited to partake, with many expressions of kindness uttered by my man-of-business,
without a look at me, or a movement of his mind and eye from the pile of paper with which he
was busy. In the course of half an hour, I had brought my repast to a close, and Mr Treherne
was primed for the conflict of the day. His engagements did not permit him to give me his assistance
in my own matters until the following morning. He begged me to excuse him until dinner-time--to
make myself perfectly at home--to wile away an hour or so in his library--and, when I got tired
of that, to take what amusement I could amongst the lions of the town--offering which advice,
he quitted me and his house with a head much more heavily laden, I am sure, than any that ever
groaned beneath the hard and aching knot. Would that the labourer could be taught to think so!

After having passed an unsatisfactory hour in Mr Treherne's library, in which the only books
which I cared to look at were very wisely locked up, on account of their rich binding, too
beautiful to be touched, I sauntered once more through the broad streets of the city, and,
in my solitary walk, philosophized upon the busy spirit of trade which pervaded them. It is
at such a time and place that the quiet and observant mind is startled by the stern and settled
appearance of reality and continuance which all things take. If the world were the abiding-place
of man, and life eternity, such earnestness, such vigour, such intensity of purpose and of
action as I saw stamped upon the harassed brows of men, would be in harmony with such a scene
and destination. HERE such concentration of the glorious energies of man is mockery, delusion,
and robs the human soul of--who shall say how much? Look at the stream of life pouring through
the streets of commerce, from morn till night, and mark the young and old--yes, the youngest
and the oldest--and discover, if you can, the expression of any thought but that of traffic
and of gain, as if the aim and end of living were summed up in these. And are they? Yes, if
we may trust the evidence of age, of him who creeps and totters on his way, who has told his
threescore years and ten, and on the threshold of eternity has found the vanity of all things.
Oh, look at him, and learn how hard it is, even at the door of death, to FEEL the mutability
and nothingness of earth! Palsied he is, yet to the Exchange he daily hies, and his dull eye
glistens on the mart--his ear is greedy for the sounds that come too tardily--his quick and
treble voice is loud amongst the loudest. He is as quick to apprehend, as eager now to learn,
as ravenous for gain, as when he trusted first an untried world. If life be truly but a shadow,
and mortals but the actors in the vision, is it not marvellous that age, and wisdom, and experience
build and fasten there as on a rock? Such thoughts as these engaged my mind, as I pursued my
way alone, unoccupied, amongst the labouring multitude, and cast a melancholy hue on things
that, to the eye external, looked bright, beautiful, and enduring. I was arrested in my meditations
at length by a crowd of persons--men, women, and children--who thronged about the entrance
of a spacious, well-built edifice. They were for the most part in rags, and their looks betrayed
them for poor and reckless creatures all. They presented so singular a feature of the scene,
contrasted so disagreeably with the solid richness and perfect finish of the building, that
I stopped involuntarily, and enquired into the cause of their attendance. Before I could obtain
an answer, a well-dressed and better-fed official came suddenly to the door, and bawled the
name of one poor wretch, who answered it immediately, stepped from the crowd, and followed
the appellant, as the latter vanished quickly from the door again. A remark which, at the same
moment, escaped another of the group, told me that I stood before the sessions'-house, and
that a man, well known to most of them, was now upon trial for his life. He was a murderer--and
the questionable-looking gentleman who had been invited to appear in court, had travelled many
miles on foot, to give the criminal the benefit of his good word. He was the witness for the
defence, and came to speak to character! My curiosity was excited, and I was determined to
see the end of the proceeding. It is the custom to pay for every thing in happy England. I
was charged box-price for my admittance, and was provided with as good a seat as I could wish,
amongst the élite of the assembly. Quick as I had been, I was already too late. There was a
bustle and buzz in the court, that denoted the trial to be at an end. Indeed, it had been so
previously to the appearance of the devoted witness, whose presence had served only to confirm
the evidence, which had been most damnatory and conclusive. The judge still sat upon the bench,
and, having once perceived him, it was not easy to withdraw my gaze again. "The man is surely
guilty," said I to myself, "who is pronounced so, when that judge has summed up the evidence
against him." I had never in my life beheld so much benignity and gentleness--so much of truth,
ingenuousness, and pure humanity, stamped on a face before. There was the fascination of the
serpent there; and the longer I looked, the more pleasing became the countenance, and the longer
I wished to protract my observation and delight. He was a middle-aged man--for a judge, he
might be called young. His form was manly--his head massive--his forehead glorious and intellectual.
His features were finely formed; but it was not these that seized my admiration, and, if I
dare so express myself, my actual love, with the first brief glance. The EXPRESSION of the
face, which I have already attempted faintly to describe, was its charm. Such an utter, such
a refreshing absence of all earthiness--such purity and calmness of soul--such mental sweetness
as it bespoke! When I first directed my eye to him, it seemed as if his thoughts were abstracted
from the comparatively noisy scene over which he presided--busy it might be, in reviewing the
charge which he had delivered to the jury, and upon the credit of which the miserable culprit
had been doomed to die. I do not exaggerate when I assert, that at this moment--during this
short reverie--his face, which I had never seen before, seemed, by a miracle, as familiar to
me as my own--a fact which I afterwards explained, by discovering the closest resemblance between
it and a painting of our Saviour, one of the finest works of art, the production of the greatest
genius of his time, and a portrait which is imprinted on my memory and heart by its beauty,
and by repeated and repeated examination. The touching expressiveness of the countenance would
not have accorded with the stern office of the judge, had not its softness been relieved by
a bold outline of feature, and exalted by the massy formation of the head itself. These were
sufficient to command respect--that made its way quickly to the heart. An opportunity was soon
afforded me to obtain some information in respect of him. I was not surprised to hear that
his name and blood were closely connected with those of a brilliant poet and philosopher, and
that his own genius and attainments were of the highest character. I was hardly prepared to
find that his knowledge as a lawyer was profound, and that he was esteemed erudite amongst
the most learned of his order. My attention was called reluctantly from the judge to the second
case of the day, which now came for adjudication. The court was hushed as a ruffian and monster
walked sullenly into the dock, charged with the perpetration of the most horrible offences.
I turned instinctively from the prisoner to the judge again. The latter sat with his attention
fixed, his elbow resting on a desk, his head supported by his hand. Nothing could be finer
than the sight. Oh! I would have given much for the ability to convey to paper a lasting copy
of that countenance--a memorial for my life, to cling to in my hours of weakness and despondency,
and to take strength and consolation from the spectacle of that intelligence, that meekness
and chastity of soul, thus allied and linked to our humanity.

It was instructive to look alternately at the criminal and at him who must award his punishment.
There they were, both men--both the children of a universal Father--both sons of immortality.
Yet one so unlike his species, so deeply sunken in his state, so hideous and hateful as to
be disowned by man, and ranked with fiercest brutes; the other, as far removed, by excellence,
from the majority of mankind, and as near the angels and their ineffable joy as the dull earth
will let him. Say what we will, the gifts of Heaven are inscrutable as mysterious, and education
gives no clue to them. The business of the hour went on, and my attention was soon wholly taken
up in the development of the gigantic guilt of the wretched culprit before me. I could not
have conceived of such atrocity as I heard brought home to him, and to which, miserable man!
he listened, now with a smile, now with perfect unconcern, as crime after crime was exhibited
and proved. His history was a fearful one even from his boyhood; but of many offences of which
he was publicly known to be guilty, one of the latest and most shocking was selected, and on
this he was arraigned. It appeared that for the last few years he had cohabited with a female
of the most disreputable character. The issue of this connexion was a weakly child, who, at
the age of two years, was removed from her dissolute parents through the kindness of a benevolent
lady in the neighbourhood, and placed in the care of humble but honest villagers at some distance
from them. The child improved in health and, it is unnecessary to add, in morals. No enquiry
or application was made for her by the pair until she had entered her fifth year, and then
suddenly the prisoner demanded her instant restoration. The charitable lady was alarmed for
the safety of her protegée, and, with a liberal price, bought off the father's natural desire.
He duly gave a receipt for the sum thus paid him, and engaged to see the child no more. The
next morning he stole the girl from the labourer's cottage. He was seen loitering about the
hut before day-break, and the shrieks of the victim were heard plainly at a considerable distance
from the spot where he had first seized her. Constables were dispatched to his den. It was
shut up, and, being forced open, was found deserted, and stripped of every thing. He was hunted
over the county, but not discovered. He had retired to haunts which baffled the detective skill
of the most experienced and alert. This is the first act of the tragedy. It will be necessary
to stain these pages by a description of the last. The child became more and more unhappy under
the roof of her persecutors, as they soon proved themselves to be. She was taught to beg and
to steal, and was taken into the highways by her mother, who watched near her, whilst, with
streaming eyes, the unhappy creature now lied for alms, now pilfered from the village. Constant
tramping, ill treatment, and the wear and tear of spirit which the new mode of existence effected,
soon reduced the child to its former state of ill health and helplessness. She pined, and with
her sickness came want and hunger to the hut. The father, affecting to disbelieve, and not
listening to the sad creature's complaint, still dismissed her abroad, and when she could not
walk, compelled the mother to carry her to the public road, and there to leave her in her agony,
the more effectually to secure the sympathy of passengers. Even this opportunity was not long
afforded him. The child grew weaker, and was at length unable to move. He plied her with menaces
and oaths, and, last of all, deliberately threatened to murder her, if she did not rise and
procure bread for all of them. She had, alas! no longer power to comply with his request, and--merciful
Heaven!--the fiend, in a moment of unbridled passion, made good his fearful promise. With one
blow of a hatchet--alas! it needed not a hard one--he destroyed her. I caught the judge's eye
as this announcement was made. It quivered, and his countenance was pale. I wished to see the
monster too, but my heart failed me, and my blood boiled with indignation, and I could not
turn to him. The short account which I have given here does bare justice to the evidence which
came thick and full against the prisoner, leaving upon the minds of none the remotest doubt
of his fearful criminality. The mother, and a beggar who had passed the night in the hut when
the murder was perpetrated, were the principal witnesses against the infanticide, and their
depositions could not be shaken. I waited with anxiety and great irritability for the sentence
which should remove the prisoner from the bar. The earth seemed polluted as long as he breathed
upon it; he could not be too quickly withdrawn, and hidden for ever in the grave. The case
for the prosecution being closed, a young barrister arose, and there was a perfect stillness
in the court. My curiosity to know what this gentleman could possibly urge on behalf of his
client was extreme. To me "the probation bore no hinge, nor loop to ban a doubt on." But the
smoothfaced counsellor, whose modesty had no reference to his years, seemed in no way burdened
by the weight of his responsibility, nor to view his position as one of difficulty and risk.
He stood, cool and erect, in the silence of the assembly, and with a self-satisfied smile he
proceeded to address the judge. Yes, he laughed, and he had heard that heart-breaking recital;
and the life of the man for whom he pleaded was hardly worth a pin's fee. The words of the
poet rushed involuntarily to my mind. "Heaven!" I mentally exclaimed, "Has this fellow no feeling
of his business--he sings at grave-making!" He made no allusion to the evidence which had been
adduced, but he spoke of INFORMALITY. I trembled with alarm and anger. I had often heard and
read of justice defeated by such a trick of trade; but I prayed that such dishonour and public
shame might not await her now. Informality! Surely we had heard of the cold-blooded cruelty,
the slow and exquisite torture, the final deathblow; there was no informality in these; the
man had not denied his guilt, his defender did not seek to palliate it. Away with the juggle,
it cannot avail you here! But in spite of my feverish security, the shrewd lawyer--well might
he smile and chuckle at his skill--proceeded calmly to assert the prisoner's right to his immediate
discharge! There was a flaw in the declaration, and the indictment was invalid. And thus he
proved it. The man was charged with murdering his child--described as his, and bearing his
own name. Now, the deceased was illegitimate, and should have borne its mother's name. He appealed
to his lordship on the bench, and demanded for his client the benefit which law allowed him.
You might have heard the faintest whisper in the court, so suspended and so kept back was every
drop of human breath, whilst every eye was fixed upon the judge. The latter spoke. "The exception
was conclusive; the prisoner must be discharged." I could not conceive it possible. What were
truth, equity, morality--Nothing? And was murder innocence, if a quibble made it so? The jailer
approached the monster, and whispered into his ear that he was now at liberty. He held down
his head stupidly to receive the words, and he drew it back again, incredulous and astounded.
Oh, what a secret he had learned for future government and conduct! What a friend and abettor,
in his fight against mankind, had he found in the law of his land! I was maddened when I saw
him depart from the well-secured bar in which he had been placed for trial. There he had looked
the thing he was--a tiger caught, and fastened in his den. Could it do less than chill the
blood, and make the heart grow sick and faint, to see the bolts drawn back--the monster loosed
again, and turned unchained, untamed, fiercer than ever, into life again? Legislators, be merciful
to humanity, and cease to embolden and incite these beasts of prey! Melancholy as the above
recital is, it is to be considered rather as an episode in this narration, than as the proper
subject of it. Had my morning's adventure finished with this disgraceful acquittal, the reader
would not have been troubled with the perusal of these pages. My vexation would have been confined
to my own breast, and I should have nourished my discontent in silence. The scene which immediately
followed the dismissal of the murderer, is that to which I have chiefly to beg attention. It
led to an acquaintance, for which I was unprepared--enabled me to do an act of charity, for
which I shall ever thank God who gave me the power--and disclosed a character and a history
to which the intelligent and kind-hearted may well afford the tribute of their sympathy. It
was by way of contrast and relief, I presume, that the authorities had contrived that the next
trial should hardly call upon the time and trouble of the court. It was a case, in fact, which
ought to have been months before summarily disposed of by the committing magistrate, and one
of those too frequently visited with undue severity, whilst offences of a deeper dye escape
unpunished, or, worse still, are washed away in gold. A poor man had stolen from a baker's
shop a loaf of bread. The clerk of the arraigns, as I believe he is called, involved this simple
charge in many words, and took much time to state it but when he had finished his oration,
I could discover nothing more or less than the bare fact. A few minutes before the appearance
of the delinquent, I remarked a great bustle in the neighbourhood of the young barrister already
spoken of. A stout fresh-coloured man had taken a seat behind him with two thinner men, his
companions, and they were all in earnest conversation. The stout man was the prosecutor--his
companions were his witnesses--and the youthful counsellor was, on this occasion, retained
against the prisoner. I must confess that, for the moment, I had a fiendish delight in finding
the legal gentleman in his present position. "It well becomes the man," thought I, "through
whose instrumentality that monster has been set free, to fall with all his weight of eloquence
and legal subtlety upon this poor criminal." If he smiled before, he was in earnest now. He
frowned, and closed his lips with much solemnity, and every look bespoke the importance of
the interests committed to his charge.--A beggar!--and to steal a loaf of bread! Ay, ay! society
must be protected--our houses and our homes must be defended. Anarchy must be strangled in
its birth. Such thoughts as these I read upon the brow of youthful wisdom. Ever and anon, a
good point in the case struck forcibly the lusty prosecutor, who communicated it forthwith
to his adviser. He listened most attentively, and shook his head, as who should say "Leave
that to me--we have him on the hip." The witnesses grew busy in comparing notes, and nothing
now was wanting but the great offender--the fly who must be crushed upon the wheel--and he
appeared. Reader, you have seen many such. You have not lived in the crowded thoroughfares
of an overgrown city, where every grade of poverty and wealth, of vice and virtue, meet the
eye, mingling as they pass along--where splendid royalty is carried quicker than the clouds
adown the road which palsied hunger scarce can cross for lack of strength--where lovely forms,
and faces pure as angels' in their innocent expression, are met and tainted on the path by
unwomanly immodesty and bare licentiousness--amongst such common sights you have not dwelt,
and not observed some face pale and wasted from disease, and want, and sorrow, not one, but
all, and all uniting to assail the weakly citadel of flesh, and to reduce it to the earth from
which it sprung. Such a countenance was here--forlorn--emaciated--careworn--every vestige of
human joy long since removed from it, and every indication of real misery too deeply marked
to admit a thought of simulation or pretence. The eye of the man was vacant. He obeyed the
turnkey listlessly, when that functionary, with a patronizing air, directed him to the situation
in the dock in which he was required to stand, and did not raise his head to look around him.
A sadder picture of the subdued, crushed heart, had never been. Punishment! alack, what punishment
could be inflicted now on him, who, in the school of suffering, had grown insensible to torture?
Notwithstanding his rags, and the prejudice arising from his degraded condition, there was
something in his look and movements which struck me, and secured my pity. He was very ill,
and had not been placed many minutes before the judge, when he tottered and grew faint. The
turnkey assisted the poor fellow to a chair, and placed in his hands, with a rough but natural
kindness, which I shall not easily forget, a bunch of sweet-smelling marjoram. The acknowledgement
which the miserable creature attempted to make for the seasonable aid, convinced me that he
was something better than he seemed. A shy and half-formed bow--the impulse of a heart and
mind once cultivated, though covered now with weeds and noxious growths--redeemed him from
the common herd of thieves. In the calendar his age was stated to be thirty-five. Double it,
and that face will warrant you in your belief. Desirous as I was to know the circumstances
which had led the man to the commission of his offence, it was not without intense satisfaction
that I heard him, at the commencement of the proceedings, in his thin tremulous voice, plead
guilty to the charge. There was such rage painted on the broad face of the prosecutor, such
disappointment written in the thinner visage of the counsellor, such indignation and astonishment
in those of the witnesses, that you might have supposed those gentlemen were interested only
in the establishment of the prisoner's innocence, and were anxious only for his acquittal.
For their sakes was gratified at what I hoped would prove the abrupt conclusion of the case.
The prisoner had spoken; his head again hung down despondingly--his eyes, gazing at nothing,
were fixed upon the ground; the turnkey whispered to him that it was time to retire--he was
about to obey, when the judge's voice was heard, and it detained him.

"Is the prisoner known?" enquired his lordship.

The counsellor rose instanter.

"Oh, very well, my lud--an old hand, my lud--one of the pests of his parish."

"Is this his first offence?"

The barrister poked his ear close to the mouth of the prosecutor before he answered.

"By no means, my lud--he has been frequently convicted."

"For the like offence?" enquired the Judge.

Again the ear and mouth were in juxtaposition.

"We believe so, my lud--we believe so," replied the smart barrister; "but we cannot speak positively."

The culprit raised his leaden eye, and turned his sad look towards the judge, his best friend
there.

"For BEGGARY, my lord," he uttered, almost solemnly.

"Does any body know you, prisoner?" asked my lord. "Can any one speak to your previous character?"

The deserted one looked around the court languidly enough, and shook his head, but, at the
same instant there was a rustling amongst the crowd of auditors, and a general movement, such
as follows the breaking up of a compact mass of men when one is striving to pass through it.

"Si-lence!" exclaimed a sonorous voice, belonging to a punchy body, a tall wand, and a black
bombasin gown; and immediately afterwards, "a friend of the prisoner's, my lord. Get into that
box--speak loud--look at his lordship. Si-lence!"

The individual who caused this little excitement, and who now ascended the witness's tribune,
was a labouring man. He held a paper cap in his hand, and wore a jacket of flannel. The prisoner
glanced at him without seeming to recognize his friend, whilst the eyes of the young lawyer
actually glistened at the opportunity which had come at last for the display of his skill.

"What are you, my man?" said the judge in a tone of kindness.

"A journeyman carpenter, please your worship."

"You must say my lord--say my lord," interposed the bombasin gown. "Speak out. Si-lence!"

"Where do you live?"

"Friar's Place--please you, my lord." The bombasin smiled pitifully at the ignorance of the
witness, and said no more.

"Do you know the prisoner at the bar?"

"About ten weeks ago--please you, my lord, I was hired by the landlord--"

"Answer his lordship, sir," exclaimed the counsel for the prosecution in a tone of thunder.
"Never mind the landlord. Do you know the prisoner?"

"Why, I was a saying, please you, my lord, about ten weeks ago I was hired by the landlord--"

"Answer directly, sir," continued the animated barrister--"or take the consequences. Do you
know the prisoner?"

"Let him tell his story his own way, Mr Nailhim," interposed his lordship blandly. "We shall
sooner get to the end of it."

Mr Nailhim bowed to the opinion of the court, and sat down.

"Now, my man," said his lordship, "as quickly as you can, tell me whatever you know of the
prisoner."

"About ten weeks ago--please you, my lord," began the journey-man de novo, "I was hired by
the landlord of them houses as is sitiwated where Mr Warton lives--" (The bombasin looked at
the witness with profound contempt, and well he might! The idea of calling a prisoner at the
bar Mr--stupendous ignorance!) "and I see'd him day arter day, and nobody was put to it as
bad as he was. He has got a wife and three children, and I know he worked as hard as he could
whilst he was able; but when he got ill he couldn't, and he was druv to it. I have often taken
a loaf of bread to him, and all I wish is, he had stolen one of mine behind my back instead
of the baker's. I shouldn't have come agin him, poor fellow! and I am sure he wouldn't have
done it if his young uns hadn't been starving. I never see'd him before that time, but I could
take my affidavy he's an industrious and honest man, and as sober, please you, my lord, as
a judge."

At this last piece of irreverence, the man with the staff stood perfectly still, lost as it
seemed, in wonder at the hardihood of him who could so speak.

"Have you any thing more to say?" asked his lordship.

The carpenter hesitated for a second or two, and then acknowledged that he had not; and, such
being the case, it seemed hardly necessary for Mr Nailhim to prolong his examination. But that
gentleman thought otherwise. He rose, adjusted his gown, and looked not only at the witness,
but through and through him.

"Now, young man," said he, "what is your name?"

"John Mallett, sir," replied the carpenter.

"John Mallett. Very well. Now, John Mallett, who advised you to come here to-day? Take care
what you are about, John Mallett."

The carpenter, without a moment's hesitation, answered that his "old woman had advised him;
and very good advice it was, he thought."

"Never mind your thoughts, sir. You don't come here to think. Where do you live?"

The witness answered.

"You have not lived long there, I believe?"

"Not quite a fortnight, sir."

"You left your last lodging in a hurry too, I think, John Mallett?"

"Rather so, sir," answered Innocence itself, little dreaming of effects and consequences.

"A little trouble, eh, John Mallett?"

"Mighty deal your lordship, ah, ah, ah!" replied the witness quite jocosely, and beginning
to enjoy the sport.

"Don't laugh here, sir, but can you tell us what you were doing, sir, last Christmas four years?"

Of course he could not--and Mr Nailhim knew it, or he never would have put the question; and
the unlucky witness grew so confused in his attempt to find the matter out, and, in his guesses,
so confounded one Christmas with another, that first he blushed, and then he spoke, and then
he checked himself, and spoke again, just contradicting what he said before, and looked at
length as like a guilty man as any in the jail. Lest the effect upon the court might still
be incomplete, the wily Nailhim, in the height of Mallett's trouble, threw, furtively and knowingly,
a glance towards the jury, and smiled upon them so familiarly, that any lingering doubt must
instantly have given way. They agreed unanimously with Nailhim. A greater scoundrel never lived
than this John Mallett. The counsellor perceived his victory, and spoke.

"Go down, sir, instantly," said he, "and take care how you show your face up there again. I
have nothing more to say, my lud."

And down John Mallett went, his friend and he much worse for his intentions.

"And now this mighty case is closed!" thought I. "What will they do to such a wretch!" I was
disappointed. The good judge was determined not to forsake the man, and he once more addressed him.

"Prisoner," said he, "what induced you to commit this act?"

The prisoner again turned his desponding eye upwards, and answered, as before--

"Beggary, my lord."

"What are you?"

"Nothing, my lord--any thing."

"Have you no trade?"

"No, my lord."

"What do your wife and children do?"

"They are helpless, my lord, and they starve with me."

"Does no one know you in your neighbourhood?"

"No one, my lord. I am a stranger there. We are all low people there, my lord."

There was something so truly humble and plaintive in the tone with which these words were spoken,
and the eyes of the afflicted man filled so suddenly with tears as he uttered them, that I
became affected in a manner which I now find it difficult to describe. My blood seemed to chill,
and my heart to rush into my throat. I am ashamed to say that my own eyes were as moist as
the prisoner's. I resolved from that moment to become his friend, and to enquire into his circumstances
and character, as soon as the present proceedings were at an end.

"How long has the prisoner been confined already?"

"Something like three months, my lud," answered the barrister cavalierly as if months were minutes.

"It is punishment enough," said the judge--"let him be discharged now. Prisoner, you are discharged--you
must endeavour to get employment. If you are ill, apply to your parish; there is no excuse
for stealing--none whatever. You are at liberty now."

The information did not seem to carry much delight to the heart of him whom it was intended
to benefit. He rose from his chair, bowed to his lordship, and then followed the turnkey, in
whose expression of countenance and attentions there was certainly a marked alteration since
the wind had set in favourably from the bench. The man departed. Moved by a natural impulse,
I likewise quitted the court the instant afterwards, enquired of one of the officials the way
of egress for discharged prisoners, and betook myself there without delay. What my object was
I cannot now, as I could not then, define. I certainly did not intend to accost the poor fellow,
or to commit myself in any way with him, for the present, at all events. Yet there I was, and
I could not move from the spot, however useless or absurd my presence there might be. It was
a small low door, with broad nails beaten into it, through which the liberated passed, as they
stepped from gloom and despair, into freedom and the unshackled light of heaven. I was not
then in a mood to trust myself to the consideration of the various and mingled feelings with
which men from time to time, and after months of hopelessness and pain, must have bounded from
that barrier, into the joy of liberty and life. My feelings had become in some way mastered
by what I had seen, and all about my heart was disturbance and unseemly effeminacy. There was
only one individual, besides myself, walking in the narrow court-yard, which, but for our footsteps,
would have been as silent as a grave. This was a woman--a beggar--carrying, as usual, a child,
that drew less sustenance than sorrow from the mother's breast. She was in rags, but she looked
clean, and she might once have been beautiful; but settled trouble and privation had pressed
upon her hollow eye--had feasted on her bloomy skin. I could not tell her age. With a glance
I saw that she was old in suffering. And what was her business here? For whom did she wait?
Was it for the father of that child?--and was she so satisfied of her partner's innocence,
and the justice of mankind, that here she lingered to receive him, assured of meeting him again?
What was his crime?--his character?--her history? I would have given much to know, indeed,
I was about to question her, when I was startled and detained by the drawing of a bolt--the
opening of the door--and the appearance of the very man whom I had come to see. He did not
perceive me. He perceived nothing but the mother and the child--his wife and his child. She
ran to him, and sobbed on his bosom. He said nothing. He was calm--composed; but he took the
child gently from her arms, carried the little thing himself to give her ease, and walked on.
She at his side, weeping ever; but he silent, and not suffering himself to speak, save when
a word of tenderness could lull the hungry child, who cried for what the mother might not yield
her. Still without a specific object, I followed the pair, and passed with them into the most
ancient and least reputable quarter of the city. They trudged from street to street, through
squalid courts and lanes, until I questioned the propriety of proceeding, and the likelihood
of my ever getting home again. At length, however, they stopped. It was a close, narrow, densely
peopled lane in which they halted. The road was thick with mud and filth; the pavement and
the doorways of the houses were filled with ill-clad sickly children, the houses themselves
looked forbidding and unclean. The bread-stealer and his wife were recognised by half a dozen
coarse women, who, half intoxicated, thronged the entrance to the house opposite to that in
which they lodged, and a significant laugh and nod of the head were the greetings with which
they received the released one back again. There was little heart or sympathy in the movement,
and the wretched couple understood it so. The woman had dried her tears--both held down their
heads--even there--for shame, and both crawled into the hole in which, for their children's
sake, they lived, and were content to find their home. Now, then, it was time to retrace my
steps. It was, but I could not move from the spot--that is, not retreat from it, as yet. There
was something to do. My conscience cried aloud to me, and, thank God, was clamorous till I
grew human and obedient. I entered the house. A child was sitting at the foot of the stairs,
her face and arms begrimed--her black hair hanging to her back foul with disease and dirt.
She was about nine years old; but evil knowledge, cunning duplicity, and the rest, were glaring
in her precocious face. She clasped her knees with her extended hands, and swinging backwards
and forwards, sang, in a loud and impudent voice, the burden of an obscene song. I asked this
creature if a man named Warton dwelt there. She ceased her song, and commenced whistling--then
stared me full in the face and burst into loud laughter.

"What will you give if I tell you?" said she, with a bold grin. "Will you stand a glass of gin?"

I shuddered. At the same moment I heard a loud coughing, and the voice of the man himself overhead.
I ascended the stairs, and, as I did so, the girl began her song again, as if she had suffered
no interruption. I gathered from a crone whom I encountered at the top of the first flight
of steps, that the person of whom I was in quest lived with his family in the back room of
the highest floor; and thither, with unfailing courage, I proceeded. I arrived at the door,
knocked at it briskly without a moment's hesitation, and recognized the deep and now well-known
tones of Warton in the voice desiring men to enter. The room was very small, and had no article
of furniture except a table and two chairs. Some straw was strewn in a corner of the room,
and two children were lying asleep upon it, their only covering being a few patches of worn-out
carpet. Another layer was in the opposite corner, similarly provided with clothing. This was
the parents' bed. I was too confused, and too anxious to avoid giving offence, to make a closer
observation. The man and his wife were sitting together when I entered. The former had still
the infant in his arms, and he rose to receive me with an air of good breeding and politeness,
that staggered me from the contrast it afforded with his miserable condition--his frightful
poverty.

"I have to ask your pardon," said I, "for this intrusion, but your name is Warton, I believe?"

"It is, sir," he replied--and the eyes of the wife glistened again, as she gathered hope and
comfort from my unexpected visit. She trembled as she looked at me, and the tears gushed forth
again.

("These are not bad people, I will swear it," I said to myself, as I marked her, and I took
confidence from the conviction, and went on.)

"I have come to you," said I, "straight from the sessions'-house, where, by accident, I was
present during your short trial. I wish to be of a little service to you. I am not a rich man,
and my means do not enable me to do as much as I would desire; but I can relieve your immediate
want, and perhaps do something more for you hereafter, if I find you are deserving of assistance."

"You are very kind, sir," answered the man, "and I am very grateful to you. We are strangers
to you, sir, but I trust these (pointing to his wife and children) may deserve your bounty.
For myself--"

"Hush, dear!" said his wife, with a gentleness and accent that confounded me. Low people! why,
with full stomachs, decent clothing, and a few pounds, they might with every propriety have
been ushered at once into a drawing-room.

"Poor Warton is very ill, sir," continued the wife, "and much suffering has robbed him of his
peace of mind. I am sure, sir, we shall be truly grateful for your help. We need it, sir, Heaven
knows, and he is not undeserving--no, let them say what they will."

I believed it in my heart, but I would not say so without less partial evidence.

"Well," I continued, "we will talk of this by and by. I am determined to make a strict enquiry,
for your own sakes as well as my own. But you are starving now, it seems, and I sha'n't enquire
whether you deserve a loaf of bread. Here," said I, giving, them a sovereign, "get something
to eat, for God's sake, and put a little colour, if you can, into those little faces when they
wake again."

The man started suddenly from his chair, and walked quickly to the window. His wife followed
him, alarmed, and took the infant from his arms, whilst he himself pressed his hand to his
heart, as though he would prevent its bursting. His face grew deathly pale. The female watched
him earnestly, and the hitherto silent and morose man, convulsed by excess of feeling, quivered
in every limb, whilst he said with difficulty--

"Anna, I shall die--I am suffocated--air--air--my heart beats like a hammer."

I threw the window open, and the man drooped on the sill, and wept fearfully.

"What does this mean?" I asked, speaking in a low tone to the wife.

"Your sudden kindness, sir. He is not able to bear it. He is proof against cruelty and persecution--he
has grown reckless to them, but constant illness has made him so weak, that any thing unusual
quite overcomes him."

"Well, there, take the money, and get some food as quickly as you can. I will not wait to distress
him now. I will call again to-morrow; he will be quieter then, and we'll see what can be done
for you. Those children must be cold. Have you no blankets?"

"None, sir. We have nothing in the world. What, you see here, even to the straw, belongs, to
the landlord of the house, who has been charitable enough to give us shelter."

"Well, never mind--don't despond--don't give way--keep the poor fellow's sprits up. Here's
another crown. Let him have a glass of wine, it will strengthen him; and do you take a glass
too. I shall see you again to-morrow. There, good-by."

And, fool and woman that I was, on I went, and stood for some minutes, ashamed of myself, in
the passage below, because, forsooth, I had been talking and exciting myself until my eyes
had filled uncomfortably with water.

It was impossible for me to go to sleep again until I had purchased blankets for these people,
and so I resolved at once to get them. I was leaving the house for that purpose, when a porter
with a bundle entered it.

"Whom do you want, my man?" said I.

"One Warton, sir", said he.

"Top of the house," said I again--"back room--to the right. What have you got there?"

"Some sheets and blankets, sir."

"From whom?"

"My master sir, here's his card."

It was the card of an upholsterer living within a short distance of where I stood. I directed
the porter again, and forthwith sallied to the man of furniture. Here I learnt that I had been
forestalled by an individual as zealous in the cause of poor Warton as myself. I was glad of
this, for I knew very well, in doing any little piece of duty, how apt our dirty vanity is
to puff us up, and to make us assume so much more than we have any title to; and it is nothing
short of relief to be able to extinguish this said vanity in the broad light of other men's
benevolence. The upholsterer, however, could not inform me who this generous man was, or how
he had been made aware of Warton's indigence. It appears that he had called only a few minutes
before I arrived, and had requested that the articles which he purchased should be sent, without
a moment's delay, to the address which he gave. He waited in the shop until the porter quitted
it, and then departed, having, at the request of the upholsterer, who was curious for the name
of his customer, described himself in the day-book as Mr Jones. "He was not a gentleman," said
the man of business, "certainly not, and he didn't look like a tradesman. I should say," he
added, "that he was a gentleman's butler, for he was mighty consequential, ordered every body
about, and wanted me to take off discount."

My mind being made easy in respect of the blankets, I had nothing to do but to return, as diligently
as I could, to the house of my friend, Mr Treherne. I reached his dwelling in time to prepare
for dinner, at which repast, as on the previous evening, I encountered a few select friends
and opulent business men. These were a different set. Before joining them, Treherne had given
me to understand that they were all very wealthy, and very liberal in their politics, and before
quitting them I heartily believed him. There was a great deal of talk during dinner, and, as
the newspapers say, after the cloth was removed, on the aspect of affairs in general. The corn-laws
were discussed, the condition of the Irish was lamented, the landed gentry were abused, the
Church was threatened, the Tories were alluded to as the enemies of mankind and the locusts
of the earth; whilst the people, the poor, the labouring classes, the masses, and whatever
was comprised within these terms, had their warmest sympathy and approbation. My habits are
somewhat retired, and I mix now little with men. I can conscientiously affirm, that I never
in my life heard finer sentiments or deeper philanthropy than I did on this occasion from the
guests of my friend, and with what pleasure I need not say, when it suddenly occurred to me
to call upon them for a subscription on behalf of the starving family whom I had met that day.

"You must take care, my dear sir," said a gentleman, before I had half finished my story, (he
might be called the leader of the opposition from the precedence which he took in the company
in opposing all existing institutions,)--"You must, indeed; you are a stranger here. You must
not believe all you hear. These fellows will trump up any tale. I know them of old. Don't you
be taken in. Take my word--it's a man's own fault if he comes to want. Depend upon it."

"So it is--so it is; that's very true," responded half-a-dozen gentlemen with large bellies,
sipping claret as they spoke.

"I do not think, gentlemen," I answered, "that I am imposed upon in this case."

"Ah, ah!" said many Liberals at once, shaking their heads in pity at my simplicity.

"At all events," I added, "you'll not refuse a little aid."

"Certainly, I shall," replied the leader; "it's a rule, sir. I wouldn't break through it. I
act entirely upon principle! I can't encourage robbery and vagrancy. It's Quixotic."

"Quite so--quite so!" murmured the bellies.

"Besides, there's the Union; we are paying for that. Why don't these people go in? Why, they
tell me they may live in luxury there!"

"He has a wife and three children--it's hard to separate, perhaps--"

"Pooh, pooh, sir!"

"Pooh, pooh!" echoed the bellies.

"And, I'll tell you what, sir," said the gentleman emphatically in conclusion, "if you want
to do good to society, you mustn't begin at the fag end of it; leave the thieves to the jailers,
and the poor to the guardians. Repeal the corn-laws--give us free trade--universal suffrage--and
religious liberty; that's what we want. I don't ask you to put a tax upon tallow--why do you
want to put a tax upon corn? I don't ask you to pay my minister--why do you want me to pay
your parson? I don't ask you--"

"Oh! don't let us hear all that over again, there's a good fellow," said Treherne, imploringly.
"Curse politics. Who is for whist? The tables are ready."

The company rose to a man at the mention of whist, and took their places at the tables. I did
not plead again for poor Warton; but his wretched apartment came often before my eyes in the
glitter of the wax-lit room in which I stood, surrounded by profusion. His unhappy but faithful
wife--his sleeping children--his own affecting expression of gratitude, occupied my mind, and
soothed it. What a blessed thing it is to minister to the necessities of others! How happy
I felt in the knowledge that they would sleep peacefully and well that night! I had been for
some time musing in a corner of the room, when I was roused by the loud voice of the Liberal.

"Well, I tell you what, Treherne, I'll bet you five to one on the game."

"Done!" said Treherne.

"Crowns?" added the Liberal.

"Just as you like--go on--your play."

In a few minutes the game was settled. The Liberal lost his crowns, and Treherne took them.
Madmen both! Half of that sum would have given a month's bread to the beggars. Did it enrich
or serve the wealthy winner? No. What was it these men craved? They could part with their money
freely when they chose. Was it excitement? And is none to be derived from appeasing the hunger,
and securing the heartfelt prayers of the naked and the poor? I withdrew from the noisy party,
and retired to my room, determined to investigate the affairs of my new acquaintances at an
early hour in the morning, and effectually to help them if I could.

CHAPTER THE SECOND.

Mr Treherne readily acquiesced in my wish to delay the execution of our business for another
day, when I made the proposition to him on our meeting the following morning at his breakfast
table. He seemed so thoroughly engrossed in his own affairs, so overwhelmed with his peculiar
labours, that he was, I believe, grateful to me for the reprieve. For my own part, I had engaged
to afford myself a week's recreation, and I had no wish to revisit London until the last moment
of my holiday had been accomplished. It is little pastime that the employments of the present
day enable a man to take, who would fain retain his position, and not be elbowed out of it
by the ninety and nine unprovided gentlemen who are waiting for a scramble. The race of life
has grown intense--the runners are on each other's heels. Woe be to him who rests, or stays
to tie his shoe-string! Our repast concluded, and Mr Treherne, again taking leave of me until
dinner-time, I set out at once for the attic of my unhappy bread-stealer. What was the object
of my visit? I had given him a sovereign. What did I intend further to do for him? I had, in
truth, no clear conception of my purpose. The man was ill, friendless, without employment,
and had "the incumbrances," wife and children, as the sick and unemployed invariably do have;
but although these facts, coming before a man, presented a fair claim upon his purse (if he
chanced to have one) to the extent of that purse's ability, yet the demand closed legitimately
here, and the hand of charity being neither grudgingly nor ostentatiously proffered, the conscience
of the donor and the heart of the receiver had no reason whatever to complain. Still my conscience
was not at ease, and it did complain whenever I hesitated and argued the propriety of engaging
any further in the business of a man whom I had known only a few hours, and whose acquaintance
had been made, certainly, not under the most favourable circumstances. It is a good thing to
obey an instinct, if it be stimulated toward that which is honourable or good for man to do;
yes, though cold deliberation will not give it sanction. It was an urging of this kind that
led me on. Convinced that I had done enough for this unhappy man, I was provoked, importuned
to believe that I ought to do still more. "It may be"--the words forced their way into my ears--"that
the interest which has been excited in me for this family, is not the result of a mere accident.
Providence may have led me to their rescue, and confided their future welfare to my conduct.
He is an outcast--isolated amongst men--may be a worthy and deserving creature, crushed and
kept down by his misfortunes. Is a trifling exertion enough to raise him, and shall I not give
it to him?" Then passed before my eyes visions, the possibility of realizing which, made me
blush with shame for a moment's indecision or delay. First, I pictured myself applying to my
friend Pennyfeather, who lives in that dark court near the Bank of England, and sleeps in Paradise
at his charming villa in Kent, and gaining through his powerful interest a situation--say of
eighty pounds per annum--for the father of the family; then visiting that incomparable and
gentle lady, Mrs Pennyfeather, whose woman's heart opens to a tale of sorrow, as flowers turn
their beauty to the sun, and obtaining a firm promise touching the needle-work for Mrs Warton.
And then the scene changed altogether, and I was walking in the gayest spirits, whistling and
singing through Camden town on my way to their snug lodgings in the vale of Hampstead heath--and
the time is twilight. And first I meet the children, neatly dressed, clean, and wholesome looking,
jumping and leaping about the heather at no particular sport, but in the very joy and healthiness
of their young blood--and they catch sight of me, and rush to greet me, one and all. They lead
me to their mother. How beautiful she has become in the subsidence of mental tumult, in quiet,
grateful labour, and, more than all, in the sunlight of her husband's gradual restoration!
She is busy with her needle, and her chair is at the window, so that she may watch the youngsters
even whilst she works; and near her is the table, already covered with a snow-white cloth,
and ready for "dear Warton" when he comes home, an hour hence, to supper. "Well, you are happy,
Mrs Warton, now, I think," say I. "Yes, thanks to you, kind sir," is the reply. "We owe it
all to you;" and the children, as if they understand my claim upon their love, hang about my
chair;--one at my knee, looking in my face; another with my hand, pressing it, with all his
little might, in his; a third inactive, but ready to urge me to prolong my stay, as soon as
I should think of quitting them. What a glow of comfort and self-respect passed through my
system, as the picture, bright with life and colour, fixed itself upon my brain, stepping,
as I was, into the unwholesome lane, and shrinking from the foetid atmosphere. I could hesitate
no longer. I began to make my plans as I trudged up the filthy stairs. The measured tones of
a voice, engaged apparently with a book, made me stop short at the attic floor. I recognised
the sound, and caught the words. The mendicants were at their prayers. "The benevolent stranger"
was not forgotten in the supplication, nor was he unmoved as be listened in secret to the fervent
accents of his fellow man. Whilst I have no pretension to the character of a saint, I am free
to confess, that amongst the fairest things of earth few look so sublime as piety, steadfast
and serene, amidst the cloud and tempest of calamity. Was it so here? I had yet to learn. A
striking improvement had taken place in the aspect of the room since the preceding evening.
The straw was gone. Its place had been supplied by the gift of the anonymous benefactor, of
whom, by the way, nothing was known, or had since been heard. The beds were already removed
to an angle of the apartment--the pieces of carpet were converted into a rug for the fire place,
and a chair or two were ready for visitors. Warton himself looked a hundred per cent better--his
wife was all smiles, when she could refrain from tears; and the children had been too much
astonished by their sumptuous fare, to be any thing but satiated, contented, happy. My vision
was already half realized. When I had submitted for an inconvenient space of time to their
reiterated thanks and protestations, I put an end to further expressions of gratitude, by informing
them that my stay in the city was limited--that I had no time for any thing but business, and
that we must have as few words as possible. I wished to know in what way I could effectually
serve them.

"You said, sir, yesterday," replied Warton, "that you would take no steps in our favour, until
you had satisfied yourself that we, at least, deserved your bounty. Had you not said it, I
should not have been happy until I had afforded you all the satisfaction in my power. Heaven
knows I owe it to you! It is to you, sir--"

"Come, my good fellow, remember what I told you. No protestations. Let us come to the point."

"Thank you, sir--I will. Are you acquainted with London?"

"Tolerably well. What then?"

"You may have heard, sir, of a merchant there of the name of ----"

"Ay have I. One of our first men. Do you know him? Will he give you a character?"

"He is my uncle, sir--my mother's brother. Apply to him, and he will tell you I am a plunderer
and a villain."

I looked at Mr Warton, somewhat startled by his frank communication, and waited to hear more.

"It is false--it is false!" continued the speaker emphatically. "I cannot melt a rock. I cannot
penetrate a heart of stone. If I could do so, he would be otherwise."

"You surprise me!" I exclaimed.

"That I live, sir, is a miracle to myself. That I have not been destroyed by the misery which
I have borne, is marvellous. A giant's strength must yield before oppression heaped upon oppression.
But there, sir"--he added, pointing to his wife, and struggling for composure--"there has been
my stay, my hope, my incitement; but for her--God bless her"--The wife motioned him to be silent,
and he paused.

"This excitement is too much for him, is it not?" I asked. "Come, Mr Warton, you are still
weak and unwell. I will not distress you now."

"I ask your pardon, sir. Three years' illness, annoyance, irritation, poverty, have made me
what you see me. It has not been so always. I was vigorous and manly until the flesh gave way,
and refused to bear me longer up. But I will be calm. It is very strange, sir, but even now
one look from her subdues me, and restores me to myself."

"You have received a good education--have you not, Mr Warton?"

"Will you spare an hour, sir, to listen to my history?"

"I should be glad to hear it," I replied, "but it will be as well to wait, perhaps--"

I looked enquiringly at his wife.

"No, sir," resumed the man, "I am tranquil now. It is a hard task, but I have strength for
it. You shall know every thing. Before you do a second act of charity, you shall hear of the
trials of those whom you have saved already. You shall be satisfied."

"Well, be it so," I answered. "Proceed, and I will listen patiently."

Warton glanced at his wife, who rose immediately and quitted the room with her three children.
The latter were evidently staggered by the sudden change in their circumstances, and they stared
full in my face until the latest moment. Being left alone with my new acquaintance, I felt,
for a short time, somewhat ill at ease; but when the poor fellow commenced his history, my
attention was excited, and I soon became wholly engrossed in his recital, which proved far
more strange and striking than I had any reason to expect.

Mr Warton, as well as I can remember, spoke to me as follows:--

"Knowing what you do, sir," he began, "you will smile, and hardly believe me, when I tell you
that the sin of Pride has been my ruin. Yes, criminal as I was yesterday--beggar as I am to-day--surrounded
by every sign and evidence of want, I confess it to my shame--Pride, has helped to bring me
where I am--Pride, not resulting from the consciousness of blood, or the possession of dignities
and wealth--but pride, founded upon nothing. I am one of three children. I had two sisters--both
are dead. My father was a workhouse boy, and his parentage was unknown. I told you that I had
little reason to build a self-esteem upon my family descent; yet there was a period in my life
when I would have given all I had in the world for an honourable pedigree--to know that I had
bounding in my veins a portion of the blood that ages since had fallen to secure a nation's
liberties, or in any way had served to perpetuate its fame. Wealth, simple wealth, I always
regarded with disdain. I revered the well-born. My father was apprenticed from the workhouse
to a maker of watch-springs, living in Clerkenwell; but after remaining with his master a few
months, during which time he was treated with great severity, he ran away. He obtained a situation
in the establishment of a silk-merchant in the city, and began life on his own account as helper
to the porter of the house. My father, sir--we may speak well of the departed--had great abilities.
He was a wonderful man--not so much on account of what he accomplished, (and, in his station,
this was not a little,) as for what he proved himself to be, under every disadvantage that
could retard a man struggling through the world, even from his infancy. His perseverance was
remarkable, and he had a depth of feeling which no ill treatment or vicissitude could diminish.
He must have risen amongst men; for mind is buoyant, and leaps above the grosser element. He
had resolved, in his first situation, to do his duty strictly, rather to overdo than to fall
short of it, and to make himself, if possible, essential to his employers. He saw, likewise,
the advantage of respectful behaviour, and cheerfulness of temper. Whatever he did, he did
with a good grace, and with a willingness to oblige, that secured for him the regard of those
he served. He was not long in discovering, that it was impossible for him to advance far with
his present amount of attainment, however sanguine he might be, and resolute in purpose. The
porter's boy might lead in time to the office of porter; but there was no material rise from
this, and the emolument was, at the best, sufficient only for the necessities of life. He learned
that the head of the firm himself had been originally a servant in the establishment, and had
been promoted gradually from the desk, on account of his industry, trustworthiness, and skill
in figures. Now, honest and industrious my father knew himself to be, but of skill in figures
he had none. He determined at once to make himself a good accountant, and every leisure hour
was employed thenceforward with that object. At the same time he was diligent in improving
his handwriting, in storing his mind with useful information, and in preparing himself for
any vacancy which might occur at the desk, when his age would justify him in offering himself
to fill it. He had held his situation for three years, when an accident happened that materially
helped him on. A fire broke out in his master's warehouse. The gentleman was from home, and
nobody was on the premises at the time but the porter and himself, who lived and slept in the
house. It was in the middle of the night. A fierce wind set in when the flames were at their
highest, and, before morning, the place was a heap of ruins. In the first alarm, my father
remembered that, in the counting-house, a tin box had been left by his master, which previously
had always been carefully locked away in the iron chest. He was sure that it contained papers
of great value, and that its loss would be severely felt. He determined to secure it, or, at
the least, to make every endeavour. He succeeded, and gained the treasure almost at the expense
of life. He was not mistaken in his supposition. In the box were deposited documents of the
highest importance to his master; and the latter, delighted with the boy's acuteness, and grateful
for the service, was eager to remunerate him. My father made known his wishes, and his acquaintance
with accounts, and in less than six months as soon, indeed, as the house was rebuilt--he had
his foot on the first step of the ladder, and took his place amongst the clerks in the counting-house.
Ah, sir! there is nothing like perseverance. My father knew his powers, and was the man to
exert them. He worked at the desk from morning till night. He gave his heart to his business,
and no time was his which could be given to that. What was the consequence? His less energetic
brethren envied and hated him, but his employer esteemed and valued him. And he ascended rapidly.
It is said that circumstances make the man. I doubt the truth of this. The highest order of
minds controls them, moulds them to his purposes, and makes them what he will. Time and opportunity
are the crutches of the timid and the helpless. In the course of a few years, my father became
the youngest partner in the firm--the youngest, but the most active and the most useful. He
began to accumulate. He remained in this position until he reached his thirtieth year, when
he looked abroad for a companion and a home. He proposed as a suitor to the daughter of his
senior partner--a vain and foolish, although a wealthy man, who had made great plans for his
child, and looked for an alliance with nobility. She, a proud and handsome girl, scorned the
approaches of the silk-merchant, and wondered at his boldness. One word, sir, of her, before
I follow my father in his career. Oh, the vicissitudes of life--the changes--the sudden rise--the
violent fall of men! Well may the player say, 'The spirits of the wise sit in the clouds and
mock us.' They do, they do, what a spectacle for gods is man! The woman, sir this arrogant,
this supercilious damsel, cradled in gold and satin, and bred in the glossy lap of luxury--died--rotted
on a dunghill. Her father gained his nobleman--she, a paramour. She eloped with a marquis,
who deserted her. She returned to her home, and found it shut against her. She who had feasted
upon the choice morsels of abundance, must, like me, commit crime for a loaf of bread. She
is carried abroad by a new protector, and strangers bear her to a pauper's grave. This was
her fate, sir. But to return. In consequence of the refusal, a coolness arose between the partners.
An angry word or two took place--a taunt--something too galling for my father's pride was spoken,
and there was a separation. My father then commenced business on his own foundation--it is
hardly necessary for me to say with success. He could not but prosper. To fail whilst reason
was left him was impossibility. He soon married. His wife--my mother--was the daughter of a
rich merchant. You know the name, sir. Her brother, my uncle, bears the same. I told it you
just now. There could not have been a more unfortunate union. My father was full of feeling
and noble impulses, intelligent, active, passionate, and required, if not his own qualities
in a partner, at least a milder reflex of himself--a woman that could appreciate his nature,
encourage, help, support him; a woman, in a word, with a heart and mind, and both devoted.
My mother, unfortunately for her, for all, had no sympathy for her husband--had nothing to
offer him but the portion which she brought, and the hand which her father bade her give. She
was a cold--must I say it?--unfeeling woman, with little thought beyond herself, her apparel,
and her pleasures. I hope, sir, I shall make you understand me. It is hard to speak disparagingly
of her who gave me life. Let me be careful that I do her justice. I bring against her no charge
of vice. I believe her not vicious. I ever considered her too weak to be so. I would have you
imagine a woman apathetic and characterless; her mental powers just equal to providing her
with a becoming garment; her feelings capable, perhaps, of their full expansion if a stranger
moved them with some hollow compliment upon her good taste, or, easier still, her beauty--for
she was not without this dangerous gift--a lovely image, sir. I have myself, as a boy, often
seen a radiance upon her countenance at such a season, when the pretty gambols of my infant
sister has failed to draw one smile of approbation. The little sensibility she had waited on
a paltry vanity. I may say with truth, that her children caused her no pain. By a fortunate
physical constitution, she bore the burden of a mother without the pangs that usually attend
a mother's state. In this respect she was considered a remarkable woman by those who deemed
their judgement in such matters sound. Once in the world, her care was at an end. I have heard,
sir--I have read of mother's love. I can feel what it should be; I can guess what wonders it
may work in the wayward spirit of man; for I longed and yearned for it, but it never came.
My elder sister died when a child of two years. My father was then in the zenith of his prosperity,
and was absorbed in his affairs; yet this loss--this heavy blow--came upon him like a thunderstroke.
Many things occupied his time, but this alone his mind. Deep sighs would escape him in the
active prosecution of his business, and his cheeks were suffused with tears as he sped along
the city's streets, sacred only to gain and worldly commerce. He doated on his girls, and to
lose one was to lose half the joy of his existence. The effect of this calamity was otherwise
on my mother; and I revert to the difference in order to make clear to you their respective
natures. My mother wept at the death of her child--she would not else have been a woman; but
as I have seen weak watery clouds pass across the moon's surface, leaving the planet untouched
and tranquil in their transit, so the thin veil of her sorrows did not disturb the palpable
unconcern--the neutrality of soul that were behind. One easy flow of tears, and the claim of
the departed was satisfied. In a day, the privation had ceased to be one. Here then, sir, are
the seeds of a wilderness of after woe: my father, overflowing with affection, and craving,
as it were, for sympathy, turning to my mother, and finding there a blank--nothing to rest
upon. 'What is fortune,' says the poet, 'to a heart yearning for affection, and finding it
not? Is it not as a triumphal crown to the brows of one parched with fever, and asking for
one fresh, healthful draught--the cup of cold water?' So it was here, and hence husband and
wife became soon estranged from one another. The former, busy from hour to hour in his counting-house,
had little time to spare upon his children; the latter, with all her time at her disposal,
took no delight in the task. My sister and I, in our infancy, were made over to strangers;
and from the hands of the nurse we were transmitted to those of the schoolmistress. When I
was old enough, I was removed from my sister's school, and placed, with a select number of
young gentlemen, under the care of a highly respectable master. It was here that my pride began
to take root. One of my schoolfellows was the son of a general, another the son of a large
landed proprietor, a third was heir to a peerage, a fourth traced his ancestors to a period
when the soil was yet untrodden by a Norman foot. I was chagrined at my position--irritated--humbled,
but the boys, especially those to whom I have alluded, behaved towards me with extreme kindness,
and whilst I felt humbled, I did not envy them, because I loved them. I had one advantage,
I was the son of a rich merchant, as he was called in the school, although I knew that title
to be one of courtesy only, and I was ashamed of the little superiority which that advantage
gave me. What cause for pride can there be in the possession of so much dross? You will smile,
sir, when I tell you of the resolution which fixed itself in the mind of a boy scarcely in
his teens. My playfellows were respected on account of the considerations which I have named.
Why should I not be respected? I vowed that I would become so. And how? For what? For nothing
less, sir, than myself; for my own high principle and integrity of conduct. It is true, sir.
There were the sons of a noble ancestry about me who would condescend to tell a falsehood,
the nephew of an officer who was mean enough to borrow money and not repay it. There were many
whose notions of honour were lax and unbecoming. Had I entertained them, they must have been
fatal to me. Discarding them for ever, and speaking and acting on all occasions, of trifling
or of serious moment, with the most jealous regard to truth and honesty, I relied upon securing
for myself what my predecessors had failed to leave me--the respect of my fellow-men, and a
good and honourable name. It seems a noble resolution. I repent it to this hour. It is true
that I rose rapidly in the estimation of my master, and that I was regarded even with deference,
as I grew up, by boys of my own age, and of better standing; but it is no less true, that,
from the moment my determination was made, I became morbidly anxious for the good opinion of
men, painfully alive to ridicule, and as fearful of the breath of slander or reproach as though
it came loaded with the plagues of Egypt. With such an idiosyncrasy, what becomes of happiness
on earth? But I tire you, sir."

"Go on, I beg of you," I answered, deeply interested in the narrative, and no less surprised
at the language and manner of the speaker, both of which convinced me that he was a man of
genius and of education. The whole thing was a mystery, and I was impatient for the solution
and the end. "Do not fatigue yourself," I continued. "For my own part I listen with the greatest
interest."

"I remember, sir," proceeded Mr Warton, "as if it were yesterday, my first return home. It
was for the midsummer holidays, and gay enough were my spirits then. All was sunshine and hope.
I had not seen my parents for two years. It seemed as if twenty had passed over my father's
head since our leave-taking. His hair had become blanched, and a settled frown had grown upon
his brow. His forehead was full of lines and wrinkles; his lips were constantly pressed together;
anger was the predominant expression of his face. The openness of countenance which had so
well become him, and which inspired me even as a child with loving confidence, was chased away,
and disappointment and vexation had seated themselves in its place. He relaxed for a moment
when he saw me, and pressed me, even then, passionately to his arms; but the clouds soon gathered
again, and asserted their right of possession. I, boylike and apprehensive, concluded that
his affairs were in a disordered state. I had but one thought at the time. I prayed that misfortune,
and not dishonesty, might appear to the world as the occasion of his difficulties. My mother
looked younger than ever. She was dressed with much care, and there was a bloom upon her cheek
that would have adorned a country maiden. Not a line, not a shadow of a line, was visible on
her soft skin--not a tooth had departed from the ivory and well-formed set. She had retained
all that was valueless, and had lost entirely and irreparably the priceless treasure of her
husband's love. At supper-time, on the very first evening of my arrival, I was made thoroughly
aware of the fearful change which, in so short a time, had come over the spirit of our home.
Joy, I knew, had long since fled from it--now peace had been startled, and there was discord,
nothing but discord, at the hearth. My father drew his chair to the table, in the sullen and
angry temper which I have told you was visible on his countenance at our meeting. It seemed
at first as though he had received offence elsewhere, and was resolved to remain discomforted.
I could not understand it, but I was awed by his frown, and sat in terror. In a few minutes,
the flame burst forth. My father required a silver spoon. There was one within arm's reach
of him. 'But why was it not before him?' He repeated the question again and again, until he
forced an answer, which gave him no satisfaction, but provoked fresh rage. Then came insipid
remonstrances from my mother, foolish argument--passionless, but not on that account less irritating,
allusions to the past. There was little incitement required, and a word from her lips scarcely
worth noticing was sufficient to maintain a quarrel for an hour. To a stranger, the scene would
have been lamentable; to me, their child, it was sad and sickening indeed. I have no terms
to express to you the fierceness of my father's anger. By degrees, he lost all mastery over
himself; he used the most opprobrious epithets, and, but for me, he would have struck her.
For three hours this state of things continued, and at midnight they withdrew, to retire to
separate beds, and separate rooms.

"'And all this,' said my mother as she closed her door--'all this for the sake of a paltry
spoon!' Ah! poor woman, could she but have understood how guiltless of offence was that said
spoon, she would have learnt the secret of her troubles; but we are not all physicians, sir,
and we do not trouble ourselves concerning the seat of our complaint, whilst its effects are
killing us with pain. It was evident that every spark of affection was extinguished in my father's
breast, that his disposition was soured, and that, cause or no cause, misery must be our daily
bread. I could not sleep that night, and I rose from my bed in the morning, determined to speak
boldly to my father on what had taken place. I loved him--child never loved parent better--and
I knew I could speak respectfully-- affectionately--yes, and solemnly to him; for, God bless
him--he was proud of me, and he listened with regard to my words--on account of my little education,
already so superior to his own. I was better able to remonstrate with him, because I had taken
no part in the contest which I had witnessed, further than placing myself between them when
his rage seemed to have robbed him of reason.

"I stepped into his bed-room before he quitted it.

"Father"--said I.

"'What? Edgar,' he replied kindly, 'what can I do for you?'

"I had arranged in my mind the words which I proposed to utter, but they vanished suddenly,
and I could do nothing but weep.

"My father, sir, was the strangest of men. Indeed, since his alienation from his wife, the
most unaccountable. Rude and violent as he could be to her--he was the tenderest, the most
anxious of fathers. He turned pale as death when he saw me in tears, and entreated me to tell
him what I suffered. I gained confidence from his anxiety, and spoke.

"'Father,' I said, 'you must not be angry with me for speaking boldly. Poor mother! you will
kill her--you do not treat her well. I am sure nothing could justify all you said and did last
night. You called her cruel names. It is not right. I am certain it is not.'

"'Edgar,' said my father, frowning as he went on, 'be silent. You are a child, and I love you.
I will do any thing for your happiness. I forbid you to speak to me of your mother.'

"'But if you love me,' I answered quickly, 'you ought to love my mother, too. Oh! do, dear
father--do be kind and loving to her.'

"'Edgar,' exclaimed my parent passionately, 'you are very young now--you will be older if you
live, and then I can speak to you as a friend. You cannot understand me now. She has broken
your father's heart--she has rendered me the most miserable of men. I would I could speak to
you, dear Edgar but this tongue will perhaps be cold and immovable before you can understand
the tale. I am wretched, wretched, indeed!'

"My father was overcome. He could not himself refrain from tears. I felt deeply for him, and
would have given any thing to hear this secret cause of grief. But his expressions kept me
silent; and I clasped his hands in pity.

"'Edgar,' he continued in a loud voice, and speaking through his tears, 'listen to my words.
They are sacred. Receive them as you would my dying syllables. You may be distant when the
blow falls which divides us. Edgar, I implore you, when you become a man, to let one consideration
only guide you in your selection of a partner. Mark me--only one--see that she has a heart--a
virtuous heart--and that it be yours entire. Despise wealth-- beauty--family--look to nothing
but that. Would to Heaven that I had!-- Edgar--your happiness--your salvation, every thing,
depends upon it. I have lost all--I am crushed and ruined; but do you, dear child, learn wisdom
from your father's wreck.'

"He said no more. I could not answer him, for my heart was choked. In a few minutes he bade
me, in a quiet tone, retire to the breakfast room; and shortly afterwards he made his own appearance
there, looking as moodily and cross when he beheld my mother, as when he had encountered her
at supper on the night before.

"Now, sir, I am ashamed to confess to you--but I have asked you to hear my history--and you
shall hear the truth in the teeth of shame--that all my sympathy was, from this hour, towards
my father, and against my mother. It may be wrong--wicked--but I could not control the strong
feeling within me. His words had left a powerful impression upon my mind. His tone, his tears--his
man's tears--stamped those words with truth, and I believed him wronged. In what way I knew
not--nor did I care. It was sufficient for me to hear it, as I did, from his lips, and to be
told that it was not possible to reveal more. Besides, sir, I have already intimated to you
that there was little tenderness in my mother's heart for me. She was cold, indifferent, and
had never had part in all my little joys and griefs. My father, even with his heavy fault--a
fault almost pardoned, as I believed; by the provocation--watched my boyish steps, and rejoiced
with me in my well-doing. Nothing had interest for me which was not important to him. He encouraged
me in learning. He grudged no money that could be spent in my improvement--he had no joy so
great as that which waited on my desire for knowledge. He had been to me a playmate, counsellor,
friend, whenever his slender opportunities permitted him to escape to me; and evidences of
the most devoted affection had disturbed my youthful heart with an emotion too deep for utterance
in the silence and solitude of my schoolboy hours. Yes--right or wrong--by necessity--my sympathy
was all for him. And to convince you, sir, that my feelings were enlisted in his cause, irrespectively
of self, without the most distant view to my own interest, I have but to refer to the life
which I passed under his roof, until I left it, to return, for a second time, to the enjoyments
and consolations--as they were always--of my school. Although his affection for me was unbounded,
it was not long before I perceived, with bitterness and trouble, that it was impossible for
him to save me from the fury of a temper which he had no longer power to govern. I could read,
or I believed I could, his inmost soul, and I could see the hourly struggle for forbearance
and self-control. It was in vain. If his passion obtained the rein for an instant--it was wild--away--beyond
his reach--and he thought not, in the paroxysm, of the sufferer, whose smile he would not have
ruffled in the season of sobriety and quiet. I did not fail again and again to remonstrate
on behalf of my mother--for the scene which I have described to you became an endless one;
but perceiving at length that representation added only fuel to the fire, I desisted. My lively
habits soon appeared to be unsuited to the new order of things. My father would once have smiled
with enjoyment at some piece of boyish mischief which now roused him to anger, and before excuse
could be offered, or pardon asked--the severest chastisement--I cannot tell how severe, was
inflicted on my flesh."

"Madman!" I exclaimed involuntarily, interrupting Warton in his narrative.

"Madman do you say, sir?" he answered quickly. "Yes, I have often thought so--and to an extent,
I grant you--if it be madness to have the reason prostrate before passion. But it is profitless
to define the malady. I would have you dwell, sir, on the cause--her fatal apathy--her indifference--I
know not what besides--which made him what he was. You may imagine, sir, that my blood has
boiled beneath the punishment--that I have burned with indignation beneath the weight of it,
undeserved and cruel as it was. Oh, sir! God has visited me these many years with sore affliction.
I am a forlorn, disabled, cast-off creature--nothing lives viler than the thing I have become;
and yet in this dark hour I thank my Maker with an overflowing grateful heart that He tied
down my hands when they have tingled in my agony to return the father's blow. I never did--I
never did."

The speaker grew more and more excited, and his voice at last failed him. I rose, and retired
to the window, but he proceeded whilst my face was turned away. I know not why--but my own
eyes smarted.

"Yes, sir, time after time the horrible desire to be avenged, and to give back blow for blow,
has possessed me; and, as if eternal torture were to be the immediate penalty of the unnatural
act, I have thrown my arms behind me, clasped hand in hand, and held them tiger-like together,
until the fit was passed away. And then who could be more penitent, more sorrowful, than he!
Within an hour of perpetrating this barbarity, he has met me with a look pleading for forgiveness,
which I would have given him had he offended me, oh much--much more. What could he say to his
child? What could his child allow him to utter? Nothing. I have kissed him; he has taken me
by the hand, we have walked abroad together; and he has loaded me with gifts for the joy of
our reconciliation."

Curious as I was to hear more, I deemed it expedient, for the present, to close the history.
The man seemed carried away by the subject, and his cheeks were scorched with this burning
flush which the unusual exertion of mind and body had summoned up. He spoke vehemently--hurriedly--at
the top of his voice, and I knew not how far his agitation might carry him. I again proposed
to him to abstain from fatigue, and to leave his history unfinished for the present. He paused
for a few minutes, wiped the heavy perspiration from his brow, and answered me in a calm and
steady voice--

"I will transgress no more, sir. I have never spoken of these things yet--and they come before
my mind too vividly--they inflame and mislead me. I ask your pardon. But let me finish now--the
tale is soon told--I cannot for a second time revert to it."

"Go on," I answered, yielding once more to his wish, and in the same composed and quiet voice
he began again.

"The first watch which I called my own, was given to me on one of these occasions. My father
had requested me to execute some small commission. I forgot to do it. In his eyes the fault
for a moment assumed the form of wilful disobedience. That moment was enough--he was roused--the
paroxysm prevailed--and I was beaten like a dog. An hour afterwards he was persuaded that his
child was not undutiful. His reason had returned to him, and, with it a load of miserable remorse.
He offered me, with a tremulous hand, the bauble, which I accepted; and, as I took it, I saw
a weight of sorrow tumble from his unhappy breast. This was my father, sir. A man who would
have been the best of fathers--had he been permitted, as his heart directed him, to be the
tenderest of husbands. I could see in my boyhood that blame attached to my mother--to what
extent I did not know. I lived in the hope of hearing at some future time. That time never
came. I remained at home two months, and then went back to school. I received a letter from
one of my father's clerks, who was an especial favourite of mine. It must have been about a
week after my departure. It told me that my father had drooped since I quitted him. On the
morning that I came away, he left his business and locked himself in my bedroom. He was shut
up at least two hours there. Fifty different matters required his presence in the counting-house,
and at length my friend, the clerk, disturbed him. When the door was opened he found his master,
his eyes streaming with tears, intent upon a little book in which he had seen me reading many
days before. Oh, it was like him, sir! Within a few days I received another letter from the
same hand. My father was dangerously ill, and I was summoned home. I flew, and arrived to find
him delirious. He had been seized with inflammation the day before. The fire blazed in a system
that was ripe for it. The doctors were baffled. Mortification had already begun. He did not
recognize me, but he spoke of me in his delirium in terms of endearment, whilst curses against
my mother rolled from his unconscious lips. Three hours after my arrival he was a corpse. And
such a corpse! They told me it was my father, and I believed them.

"Are you, sir, fatherless?" asked Warton suddenly.

I told him, and he continued. "You have felt then the lightning shock that has altered the
very face of nature. Earth, before and after that event, is not the same. It never was to human
being yet. It cannot be. What a secret is learnt upon that day! How tottering and insecure
have become the things of life that seemed so firm and fixed! The penalty is heavy which we
pay for the privilege to be our own master. Oh, the desolation of a fatherless home! My father
died, having made no will. So it was said at first--but in a few days there was another version.
My mother's brother--the uncle that I spoke of--then appeared upon the stage, and was most
active for his sister's interests. He had never been a friend of my father's. They had not
spoken for years. I did not know why. I had never enquired--for the man was a stranger to me,
and since my birth he had not crossed our threshold. My father believed that his relative had
wronged him--of this I was sure--and I hated him therefore when he appeared. When my father
was buried, this man produced a will. I was present when it was read--bodily present; but my
heart and soul were away with him in the grave--and with him, sir, in heaven, beyond it. They
told me at the conclusion of the ceremony, that my father had died worth fifty thousand pounds--that
he had left my mother the bulk of his property--to my sister a fortune of ten thousand pounds,
and to me the sum of a hundred and fifty pounds per annum. But they might have talked to stone.
What cared my young and inexperienced, and still bleeding heart, for particulars and sums?
A crust without him was more than enough. It was more than I could swallow now--and what was
wealth to me? My uncle, I heard afterwards, watched me as the different items were read over,
and seemed pleased to observe upon my face no sign of disappointment. That he was pleased,
I am certain, for he spoke kindly to me when all was over, and said that I was a good boy,
and should be taken care of. "-Taken care of-!"--and so I was--and so I am--for look about
you, sir, and observe the evidences of my uncle's love. The clerk, to whom I have alluded,
took an early opportunity to remind me of the nature of my father's will--and to hint to me
suspicions of foul play. I readily believed him. It was not that I cared for the money. At
that age I was ignorant of its value, and my little portion seemed a mine of wealth. But I
wished to dislike my uncle, because he had given pain to my dear father. I avoided his presence
as much as I could, and I made him feel that my aversion was hearty. We never became friends.
We seldom spoke--and never but when obliged. He was a coarse man then--I have not seen him
for many years--ungentlemanly and unfeeling in his deportment. It would have been as easy for
him to alter the framework of his body as to have shown regard for the sensibilities of other
men. He lived to amass. He counts his tens of thousands now--they may have been scraped together
amidst the groans and shrieks of the distressed, but there they are--he has them, and he is
happy. I asked, and obtained from my mother, permission to return to school. I remained there
without visiting my home again for three years. My mother did not once write to me, or come
to see me. I did not write to her. My expenses were paid from my income. My father's business
was still conducted by my mother with her assistants, and she resided in the old house. Did
I tell you that my uncle was the appointed executor of my father's will, and my guardian? He
managed my affairs, and for the present I suffered him to do as he thought proper. In the meanwhile
my happiness at school was unbounded. My existence there was sweet and tranquil, like the flow
of a small secluded stream. I loved my master. Ill-taught and self-neglected nearly till the
time that I came under his instruction, I believed that I owed all my education to him; and
whilst I thirsted for knowledge as the means of raising myself and my own mind, he supplied
me with the healthful sustenance, and helped me forward with his precepts. I had neither taste
nor application for the severer studies. Science was too hard and real for the warm imagination
with which Providence had liberally endowed me. It was a scarecrow in the garden of knowledge,
and I looked at it with fear from the sunny heights of poesy on which I basked and dreamed.
History--fiction--the strains of Fletcher, Shakspeare--the lore of former worlds--these had
unspeakable charms for me; and such information as they yielded, I imbibed greedily. Admiration
of the beautiful creations of mind leads rapidly in ardent spirits to an emulative longing;
and the desire to achieve--to a firm belief of capability. The grateful glow of love within
is mistaken for the gift divine. I burned to follow in the steps of the immortal, and already
believed myself inspired. Hours and days I passed in compositions, which have since helped
to warm our poverty-stricken room; for they had all one destination--the fire. I shall, however,
never consider the days ill-spent which were engaged in such pursuits. The pleasure was intense--the
advantage, if unseen and indirect, was not insignificant. Whatever tends to elevate and purify,
is in itself good and noble. We cannot withdraw ourselves from the selfishness of life, and
incline our souls to the wisdom of the speaking dead, and not advance--be it but one step--heavenward.
And in my own case--the intellectual character was associated with all that is lofty in principle,
and exalted in conduct. Sans peur et sans reproche was its fit motto. Falsehood and dishonesty
must not attach to it. In my own mind I pictured a moral excellence which it was necessary
to attain; and in my strivings for intellectual fame, that, as the essential accompaniment,
was never once lost sight of. Pride still clung to me--and was fed throughout. I was eighteen
years of age, and I desired to enter the university. I fixed upon Oxford, as holding out a
better prospect of success than the sister seat of learning. I enquired what sum of money was
necessary for my education there; and received for answer, that two hundred pounds a-year might
carry me comfortably through, but that, with some economy and self-denial, a hundred and fifty
might be sufficient. It is a curious circumstance that the very post which brought this information,
brought likewise a letter from my uncle, offering, as my guardian, and at his own expense,
to send me to the university. I was indignant at the proposition, and vowed, before his letter
was half read, that I would rather live upon a meal a-day, than owe my bread to one whom I
regarded as my father's foe. Does it not strike you, sir, as somewhat singular, that my father
should make this man executor, trustee, and guardian? Men do not generally appoint their enemies
to such offices. I wrote to my uncle in reply, declined coldly but respectfully his offer,
and told him my intention. Here our correspondence ended, and six months afterwards my name
was on the boards of my college. I went up knowing no one, but carrying from my friend, the
schoolmaster, a letter of introduction to a clergyman who had been his college friend, and
who (now married and the father of one child) earned his subsistence by taking pupils. I was
received by this poor but worthy man with extreme kindness. He read the character which I had
brought with me, and bade me make his house my home. His hospitality was at first a great advantage
to me. My slender income compelled me to exercise rigid economy--and to avoid all company.
Although very poor, I have told you that I was already very proud. I would not receive a favour
which I could not pay back--I would not permit the breath of slander to whisper a syllable
against my name. There were hours in which no book could be read with pleasure, which no study
could make light. Such were passed in delightful converse with my friend, and thus I was spared
even the temptation to walk astray. I need not tell you that I had no tutor. It was a luxury
I could not afford. I worked the harder, and was all the happier for the victory I had gained--such
I deemed it--over my uncle. At the end of a twelve-month, I found my expenses were even within
my income. It was a sweet discovery. I had paid my way. I did not owe a penny. I was respected,
and no one knew my mode of life, or the amount of income that I possessed. My friend, I said,
had one child. She was a daughter. During my first year's residence I had never seen her. She
was away in Dorsetshire nursing a cousin, who died at length in her arms. She returned home
at the commencement of my second year, and I was introduced to her. She fell upon my solitary
life like the primrose that comes alone to enliven the dull earth--a simple flower of loveliness
and promise, graceful in herself--but to the gazer's eye more beautiful, no other flower being
present to provoke comparison. We met often. She was an artless creature sir, and gave her
love to me long, long before she knew the price of such a gift. She doated on her father, and
it was a virtue that I understood. She was very fair to look at; timid as the fawn--as guileless;
a creature of poetry, sent to be a dream, and to shed about her a beguiling unsubstantial brightness.
All things looked practicable and easy in the light in which she moved. The difficulties of
life were softened--its rewards and joys coloured and enhanced. I thought of her as a wife,
and the tone of my existence was from the moment changed. If you could have seen her, sir--the
angel of that quiet house--gliding about, ministering happiness--her innocent expression--her
lovely form--her golden hair falling to her swelling bosom--her truthfulness and cultivated
mind--you would, like me, have blessed the fortune which had brought her to your side, and
revealed the treasure to your youthful heart. I told her that I loved, and her tears and maiden
blushes made her own affection manifest. Her father spoke to me, bade me reflect, take counsel,
and be cautious. He gave at last no opposition to our wishes--but requested that time might
be allowed for trial, and my settlement in life. And so it was agreed. I prosecuted my studies
more diligently than ever, and looked with impatience for the hour when my profession (for
I had gone to the university with a view to the church) and my little income would justify
me in offering to my darling one a home. Did I now mourn over the inequality of my fortune?
Did I upbraid the dead--accuse the living? I did not, sir. Too pleased to labour for the girl
whom I had chosen--I rejoiced to owe my bread to my exertion. She then, as now--for it was
her--my Anna, sir--the wreck whom you have seen--cruelly misused by poverty and grief--robbed
of her beauty and her strength--the miserable outline of her former self--she then, even as
now, was in all things actuated by the highest motives--a serious and religious maid. She cheered
me with her smiles--her perfect patience and tranquil hope. It was to her a privilege to be
united to a clergyman, and to find her earthly joy combined with usefulness and good. In our
walks, I have painted the future which was never to be--the bliss we were never to experience.
I have spoken of the parsonage, and its little lawn and many flowers--pictured myself at work--visiting
the poor--comforting the sick--herself my dear attendant at the cottage doors, with hosts of
little ones about her, whom she might call her children, and for whom she might exercise more
than a mother's care. She could not listen to such promises, and not grow happier in her inexperience
than reality could ever render her; and yet sighs, sighs, ominous sighs, would from the first
escape her. Still for a twelvemonth our nook of earth was Paradise, and sorrow, the universal
lot, was banished from our door. The tales which I had been accustomed to hear of the world's
deceit and falsehood seemed groundless and cruel--the inventions of envious disappointed minds--whose
ambition had betrayed them into hopes, too preposterous for fulfilment Happiness was on earth--did
I not find her in my daily walk?--for such as were not loth to greet her with a lowly and contented
spirit. I had no present care. The days were prosperous. I obtained a scholarship in my college
at the end of the first year, which was worth to me at least fifty pounds per annum. This,
not requiring, I saved up. I worked hard during the day--withdrew myself from all intercourse
with men, and every evening was rewarded with the smiles of her for whose dear sake all labour
was so easy. Oh, the tranquillity and ineffable bliss of those distant bygone days! Bygone,
did I say? No--they exist still. Poverty--misery--persecution--such things pass away, and are
in truth a dream. The troubles of yesterday vanish with the sun that set upon them--but those
hours, deeply impressed upon the soul, have left their mark indelible; the intense, unspeakable
joy that filled them, lingers yet, and brightens up one spot that stands alone, distinct in
life. Cast when I will one single glance there, and I behold the stationary sun shine. I do
so now. None feel so vigorous and well as they who are on the eve of some prostrating sickness.
Dreaming of security, and as I looked about, perceiving from no side the probability or show
of evil, I was in truth entangled in a maze of peril. My summer's day was at an end. The cloud
had gathered--was overhead, and ready to burst and overwhelm me. For one twelvemonth, as I
have said, I felt the perfect enjoyment of life, and was blest. At the end of that period I
received a letter from my uncle. It was full of tenderness and affection. The first few lines
were taken up with enquiries--and immediately afterwards there came a proposition. It was to
this effect. "My mother wished to retire from business; it was still a lucrative one, and she
offered it to me. She undertook to leave in the firm a capital sufficiently large to carry
it on, and receiving a moderate interest only for this sum, she would relinquish all other
profit in favour of her son." I read the letter, and had faith in its sincerity. As I read
it, a devil whispered delusively into my ear, and the sounds were music there, until my ruin
was completed. I knew the business to be affluent and thriving. The income derived from it
enabled my mother to live luxuriously. Half the sum would afford every wished-for comfort to
my Anna, and much less would enable us at once to marry. Here was the rock on which I went
to pieces--here was the giddy light that blinded me to all considerations--here was the sophistry
that made all other reasoning dull and valueless. I did not stop to enquire what movement of
feeling could operate so generously upon my uncle. If an unfavourable suggestion forced itself
upon me, it was expelled at once; and persuasion of the purity of his motives was too easy,
where my wish was father to the thought. If I remained at college, years might elapse before
our union. Now, immediately, if I accepted this unlooked-for offer--she was mine, and a home,
such as in other circumstances I could never hope to give her, was ready for her reception!
I could think of nothing else, but I beheld in the unexpected good--the outstretched hand of
Providence. Full of my delight, I communicated the intelligence to Anna; but very different
was its effect on her. She read the letter, and looked at me as if she wished to read the most
hidden of my secret wishes.

"'What have you thought of doing, then?' she asked.

"'Accepting the proposal, Anna,' I replied, 'with your consent.'

"'Never with that,' she answered almost solemnly. 'My lips shall never bid you turn from the
course which you have chosen, and to which you have been called. You do not require wealth--you
have said so many times--and I am sure it is not necessary for your happiness.'

"'I think not of myself, dear Anna,' I replied. 'I have more than enough for my own wants.
It is for your sake that I would accept their offer, and become richer than we can ever be
if I refuse it. Our marriage now depends upon a hundred things--is distant at the best, and
may never be. The moment that I consent to this arrangement, you are mine for ever.'

"'Warton,' she said, more seriously than ever, 'I am yours. You have my heart, and I have engaged
to give you, when you ask it, this poor hand. In any condition of life--I am yours. But I tell
you that I never can deliberately ask you to resign the hopes which we have cherished--with,
as we have believed, the approbation and the blessing of our God. Your line of duty is, as
I conceive it--marked. Whilst you proceed, steadily and with a simple mind--come what may,
your pillow will never be moistened with tears of remorse. If affliction and trial come--they
will come as the chastening of your Father, who will give you strength to bear the load you
have not cast upon yourself. But once diverge from the straight and narrow path, and who can
see the end of difficulty and danger? You are unused to business, you know nothing of its forms,
its ways--you are not fit for it. Your habits--your temperament are opposed to it, and you
cannot enter the field as you should--to prosper. Think not of me. I wish--my happiness, and
joy, and pride will be to see you a respected minister of God. I am not impatient. If we do
right, our reward will come at last. Let years intervene, and my love for you will burn as
steadily as now. Do not be tempted--and do not let us think that good can result--if, for my
sake, you are unfaithful--there!' She pointed upwards as she spoke, and for a moment the sinfulness
of my wishes blazed before me--startled, and silenced me. I resolved to decline my uncle's
offer; yet a week elapsed, and the letter was not written. But another came from him. It was
one of tender reproach for my long silence, and it requested an immediate answer to the munificent
proposal of my mother. If I refused it, a stranger would be called upon to enjoy my rights,
and the opportunity for realizing a handsome fortune would never occur again. Such were its
exciting terms, and once more, perplexed by desire and doubt, I appealed to the purer judgment
of my Anna.

"She wept when she came to the close of the epistle, and had not a word to say.

"'I distress you, Anna,' said I, 'by my indecision. Dry your tears, my beloved; I will hesitate
no longer.'

"'I know not what to do,' she faltered; 'if you should act upon my advice, and afterwards repent,
you would never forgive me. Yet, I believe from my very soul that you should flee from this
temptation. But do as you will--as seems wisest and best--and trust not to a weak woman. Do
what reason and principle direct, and happen what will--I will be satisfied. One thing occurs
to me. Can you trust your uncle?"

I hesitated.

"'I ask,' she continued, 'because you have often spoken of him as if you could not confidently.
May he not have--I judge of him only from your report--some motive for his present conduct
which we cannot penetrate? It is an unkind world, and the innocent and guileless are not safe
from the schemes and contrivances of the wicked. I speak at random, but I am filled with alarm
for you. You are safe now--but one step may be your ruin.'

"'You are right, Anna,' I replied; 'it is too great a venture, I cannot trust this man. I will
not leave the path of duty. I will refuse his offer this very night.'

"And I did so. In her presence I wrote an answer to his letter, and declined respectfully the
brilliant prospect which he had placed before me. The letter was dispatched--Anna was at peace,
and my own mind was satisfied.

"It was, however, not my fate to pass safely through this fiery ordeal. Nothing but my destruction,
final and entire, would satisfy my greedy persecutor--and artfully enough did he at length
encompass it. In a few days, there arrived a third communication on the same subject, but from
another hand. My mother became the correspondent, and she conjured me by my filial love and
duty, not to disobey her. She desired to retire into privacy. She was growing old and it was
time to make arrangements for another world. Her son, if he would, might enable her to carry
out her pious wish--or, by his obstinate refusal, hurry her with sorrow to the grave. There
was much more to this effect. Appeal upon appeal was made there, where she knew me to be most
vulnerable, and the choice of action was not left me. To deny her longer--would be to stand
convicted of disobedience, undutifulness, and all unfilial faults. From this period, I was
lost. One word before I hurry to the end. I absolve my mother from all participation in the
crimes of which boldly I accuse my uncle. She, poor helpless woman, was but his instrument,
and believed, when she urged me, that it was with a view to my advancement and lasting benefit.
I conveyed my mother's communication immediately to Anna. She made no observation on its contents--bade
me seek counsel of her father; and with her eyes streaming with agonizing tears, left me to
pray upon my knees for counsel and direction from on high. Her father--I could not blame him--a
man who had struggled hardly for his bread as a clergyman and a scholar--and seen more of the
dark shadows than the light of life--received my intelligence with unmingled satisfaction.
He charged me, as I loved his child, and valued her future welfare, to accept the princely
kindness of my friends--to see them instantly, and secure my fortune whilst time and circumstances
served. And then, as if to appease his own qualms of conscience, and to justify his counsel,
he reasoned about the usefulness which, even to a pious mind, was permitted in the exercise
of trade. Infinite was the good that I might do. Yea, more, perhaps, than if I persisted in
my first design, and remained for ever a poor clergyman; I might relieve the poor even to my
heart's content. What privilege so great as this! What suffering so acute as the desire to
help the sick and needy with no ability to do it! 'Be sure, young man, the hand of Providence
is here; it would be sinful to deny it.' O interest--interest!--self--self!--words of magic
and of power; they rendered my poor friend blind as they did me. I listened to his advice with
eagerness and delight; and though I knew that to obey it was to cast myself from security into
turmoil and danger, I laboured to persuade myself that he was right, and that hesitation was
now criminal. Again I saw my betrothed, and I approached her--innocent and truthful as she
was--with shame and self-abasement. I repeated her father's words, and she shook her head sadly,
but made no reply. What need was there of reply? Had she not already spoken?

"'Let me, at least, dear Anna, go to London,' I said, 'and implore my mother to retract this
wish, unsay her words. I would rather give up the world, than take it without your cheerful
acquiescence. Your happiness is every thing to me. You shall decide for me.'

"'No, Warton,' she replied--'you and my father must decide, and may Heaven direct you both.
Go to London--do as you wish. I am resigned. I am presumptuous, and may be wrong. All will
be for the best. Go! God bless you and support you.'

"And I went, traitor and renegade that I was, prepared to surrender to the bitterest foe that
ever hunted victim down. Believe me not, sir, when I say that any sense of filial duty actuated
me in my resolve, that any feeling influenced this unsteady heart but one--The desire to call
my Anna mine--the pride I felt in the consciousness of wealth--and of the power to bestow it
all on her.

"My reception in London was as favourable as I could wish it. My uncle was an altered man--at
least he appeared so. He met me with smiles and honied words, and made such promises of friendship
and protection, that I stood before him convicted of uncharitableness and gross misconduct.
I reproached myself for the old prejudices, and for the malice which I had always borne him,
and attributed them all to boyish inexperience, and stubbornness. I was older now, and could
see with the eyes of a man. Not only did I acquit him of all intention of wrong, but I could
have fallen on my knees before him, and asked his pardon for my own offences. I wrote a long
letter to Anna, and described in lively colours my own agreeable surprise, desired her to be
of good heart, and to rely upon my prudence. I engaged to write daily, to announce the progress
of my mission--and to advise her of the proposed arrangements. This was my first communication.
Before she could receive a second, I had put my hand to paper, and signed my death-warrant.
I had irretrievably committed myself. I was living with my uncle. His wine was of the best.
He could drink freely of it, and get cooler and more collected at each glass, but frequent
draughts animated and inflamed my younger head. He spoke to me with kindness, and I grew confiding
and loquacious. I told him of my engagement with Anna, described her beauty, extolled her virtues.
He seized the golden opportunity, and reproved me gently for the little consideration which
I exhibited for one so worthy of my love. It was unpardonably selfish to hesitate one instant
longer. It was due to her, and to our future offspring, to make every provision for their maintenance
and comfort. It was madness to overlook the advantages which my mother's offer gave. She herself,
the lovely Anna, as her cares increased, would mourn over the cruel obstinacy of him who might
have placed her beyond anxiety and apprehension, but who preferred to keep her poor, dependent,
joyless. She was young, and spoke, doubtless, as she felt--but time would dissipate romance,
and bitterly would she regret that he who professed to love her had not taken pains to prove
that love more thoughtful and sincere. So he went on--and, in the height of his appeal, a visitor
was announced--Mr Gilbert, an old friend, an intimate, who was immediately admitted. I was
requested not to mind him, for he knew every secret of my uncle's. The latter repeated my story,
and ended with an account of my ingratitude to Anna. Mr Gilbert could scarcely speak for his
astonishment. He shook his head severely, and vowed the case was quite unparalleled. I drank
on--the thought of the immediate possession of my Anna flashed once powerfully and effectually
across my brain, and I held out no longer. I yielded to the sweet solicitation--and was lost.

"On the following morning, Mr Gilbert arrived to breakfast. The subject was resumed. My uncle
produced a paper, which he had hastily drawn up. It should be signed by all. Mr Gilbert, as
a friend, could witness it. It was a rough draught, but would answer every purpose for the
present. The statement was very simple. My mother left in the firm twenty thousand pounds in
stock, and cash and book debts. For this I made myself responsible, and undertook to pay an
interest of five per cent. All profits in the business were my own. Fool that I was, I signed
the document without reflection--gave, with one movement of the pen, my liberty, my happiness,
and life, into the power of one who had for years resolved to get them in his clutch. My uncle
followed with his signature--then Mr Gilbert. To make all sure, however, a clerk of the former
was summoned to the room, and requested to act as second witness to the deed.

"You are perfectly satisfied with the contents?' said Mr Gilbert to my uncle, when the clerk
had finished.

"'Quite so,' was the answer.

"'And you, sir?' he continued, turning then to me.

"'I answered, 'Yes,' whilst a sickening shudder crept through my blood, and the remonstrance
of Anna sounded in my ears like a knell.

"I remained in London, and a week after this ceremony I entered upon my duties at the counting-house.
At the earnest recommendation of my uncle, I carried into the business, as additional capital,
the sum of money from which I had hitherto derived my income. This amounted to nearly four
thousand pounds. It may seem strange to you, sir, as it does to me now, that I should so readily
have adopted the statement of my uncle, and so deeply involved myself upon the strength of
his simple ipse dixit. It was a mad-man's act, and yet there were many excuses for it at the
time. I was but a boy--fresh from a life of retirement and study--unused to the ways of men--unprepared
for fraud. Satisfied of my own integrity, I believed implicitly in the ingenuousness of others.
I had no friend to act for me--to investigate and warn--my heart was burthened with its love,
and all my thoughts were far away. The business had prospered for years, and it was conducted
externally as in the days of my poor father. All was decorous and business-like, and the reputation
of the house was high and unblemished. There was nothing in the appearance of things to excite
suspicion--and not a breath was suggested from my own too easy and confiding nature. The father
of my betrothed! was delighted at the step which I had taken. He wrote me an impassioned letter,
full of praise and brilliant prophecies, none of which he lived to see fulfilled. His daughter,
he assured me, would yet be grateful to me for the firmness I had evinced, and that the blessing
of Heaven must attend conduct so estimable and wise. Anna herself wrote in another strain.
The act which she had so long dreaded was accomplished--it was useless to look back--she could
only hope and pray for the future. She entreated me to be careful of my health, and to accustom
myself gradually to my new employment. It was a consolation to behold her father so very happy,
and to find me contented in my position. Nothing would give her now such satisfaction, as to
be convinced that she had been wrong throughout, and that I had done well in giving up my former
occupations. A month passed quickly by. The engagements of the firm were met--and its affairs
were carried on as usual. No change took place. The only difference was my presence, and the
appearance of my name in all the transactions of the house. I saw my mother frequently--but
my uncle, by degrees, withdrew. His own affairs required his constant attention, but he provided
me with help and countenance in the person of Mr Gilbert. This gentleman, in addition to the
character of a bosom friend, sustained another--that of legal adviser to my uncle! He visited
me daily, and helped me marvellously. He procured from my uncle my patrimony of four thousand
pounds--drew up in return for it a release, which I executed--paid the money into my banker's
hands--received my mother's dividend--inspected the accounts--advised summary proceedings against
defaulters--and settled, at a certain rate, to purchase a few outstanding debts, which it would
cost some trouble and manoeuvring to get in. I could not choose but act upon advice that was
at once so very friendly and professional. My inexperience, for a time, gratefully reposed
in Mr Gilbert. Exactly two months after I had entered the concern, I married. Sun never rose
more promisingly upon a wedding-day--a lovelier bride had never graced it. I pass over the
few intoxicating weeks during which life assumes a form and hue which it never wore before--never
puts forth again. The novelty of my situation--the joy I had in her possession, and in the
knowledge that she was wholly mine--lived now and breathed for me--the pride with which I gazed
upon her blooming beauty, and communed with her, as with a new-found better self--all combined
to render one brief season a sweet delirium--an ecstatic dream. It is time to wake from it.
I return to the business. I had agreed to pay my mother's dividend every quarter--and, as I
told you, Mr Gilbert received the money for her. She did not live to enjoy it. A short illness
removed her from a world which had never been one of sorrow to her. Her heart was adamant,
and troubled waters passed over--did not enter and disturb it. All that she had became my uncle's,
and he was now my creditor. I beg you, sir, to mark this. Twice had he inherited the property
which should have been my own. It was about a twelvemonth after the death of my mother, that
small, dark shadows appeared in the horizon, foretelling storm and tempest. At first they gave
me no uneasiness, but they increased and gathered, and soon compelled me to take measures for
the outbreak. I continued to discharge my uncle's claim with undeviating regularity. Mr Gilbert
sharply saw to that; but a difficulty arose at length of meeting punctually all the demands
which came upon me in the way of business. This was overcome in the beginning, by enforcing
payment from customers who had traded previously on a liberal credit. The evil thus temporarily
repaired gave rise, however, to a greater evil. Our friends withdrew their favours, and offered
them else where. This critical state of things did not improve, but caused me daily fresh alarm.
Money became more scarce--the difficulty of meeting payments more imminent and harassing. It
was very strange. It had not been so in my father's time; nor later, when my mother had the
management of affairs. Was it my fault? What had I done amiss. Frightful thoughts began to
haunt my bosom, and my sleep was broken, as a criminal's might be. One day I had a heavy sum
to pay. It was on the fourth of the month--a serious day to many--and, although I had made
every exertion to meet this payment, I found myself, on the very morning, at least two hundred
pounds deficient. I have told you, that the credit of our house was without a spot. Its reputation
stood high amongst the highest. Slander had not dared to breathe one syllable against it. To
me was entrusted this precious jewel, and I was now upon the very brink of losing it. I rose
from my pillow before daylight, and endeavoured to contrive a plan for my relief. Fear and
excitement prevented all deliberate thought, and I walked to the counting-house confounded--almost
delirious. I had taken no food. I could not break my fast until the exigency had passed away.
I was sitting in the little room, filled with dismal apprehensions, when Mr Gilbert was announced,
and suddenly appeared. As suddenly I resolved to tell him of my necessity, and to ask his aid
or counsel. Blushing to the forehead, I confided my situation to him, and asked what it was
possible to do. He smiled in answer produced his pocket-book, and gave me, without a word;
a draft upon his banker for the sum required. At that moment, sir, I felt what it was to be
respited after sentence of death--to be rescued from drowning--to awaken into life from horrible
and numbing dreams. I pressed the hand of my deliverer with the most affectionate zeal, and
assured him of my everlasting gratitude.

"'No occasion, my dear sir,' answered Mr Gilbert. 'This is a very common case in business,
and will happen to the best of men. Never hesitate to ask me when you are in need. When I have
the cash, you shall command me always. Give me your IOU--that will be quite sufficient, and
pay the money back when it is quite convenient.' Disinterested, most praiseworthy man! He left
me, impressed with his benevolence, and with my spirit at rest. With the dismissal of my incubus,
my appetite was restored. I partook of a hearty dinner, and returned home, happy as a boy again.
At the end of a week, I was enabled to repay my benefactor; but, at the end of a fortnight;
I was again in need of his assistance. Emboldened by his offer, I did not hesitate to apply;
as freely as before he responded to my call; and I felt that I had gained a friend indeed.
Men who have committed heinous crimes, will tell you that it is the first divergence from the
point of rectitude that gives them pain and anguish. The false direction once obtained, and
the moral sense is blunted. So in matters of this kind. There was no blushing or palpitation
when I begged a third time for a temporary loan. The occasion soon presented itself, and I
asked deliberately for the sum I wanted. Mr Gilbert likewise had grown familiar with these
demands; and familiarity, they say, does not heighten our politeness and respect. He had not
the money by him, but he might get it, though, from a friend, he thought, if it were absolutely
necessary. But then a friend is not like one's self. He must be paid for what he did. Well,
for once in the way, I could afford it. I must borrow as cheaply, as I could, and give my note
of hand, &c. Sir, in less than three months; I was in a mesh of difficulties, from which it
was impossible to tear myself. Bill after bill had I accepted and given to this Gilbert--pounds
upon pounds had he sucked from me in the way of interest; He grew greedier every hour. If I
hesitated; he spoke to me of exposure--I refused, he threatened enforcement of his previous
claims. And, what was worse than all, notwithstanding the heavy sums which he advanced, and
for which he held securities, my affairs remained disordered, and the demand for money increased
with every new supply. I could not understand it. I had not communicated with my uncle. I was
afraid to do it; but I took care to pay his dividend the instant it was due. Had I omitted
it, Mr Gilbert would have looked to me; for he was even more anxious than myself to keep my
affairs a secret from my uncle. It was not long before I got bewildered by the accumulated
anxieties of my position. My mind was paralyzed. My days were wretched. Home had no delight
for me; and neither there nor elsewhere could I find repose. Before daybreak, I quitted my
bed, and until midnight, I was occupied in arranging for the engagements of the coming day.
Legitimate and profitable business was neglected; lost sight of, and all my faculties were
engrossed in the one great object of obtaining money to appease the present and the pressing
importunity. In the midst of my trouble, I was thrown, for the first time, upon a bed of sickness.
I was attacked with fever, but I rallied in a day or two, and was prepared once more to cast
myself into the vortex from which I saw no hope or possibility of escape. It was the evening
before the day on which I had determined to resume the whirl of my sickening occupation. I
was in bed, and, tired with the thought that weighed upon my brain, had fallen into a temporary
sleep, from which I woke too soon, to find my wife, now about to become a mother, weeping as
if her heart were broken, at my side. Trouble, sir, had soured my temper, and I had ceased
to be as tender as she deserved. I was base enough to speak unkindly to her.

"'You are discontented, Anna,' I exclaimed. You are not satisfied--you repent now that you
married me'--I see you do.'

"'Warton,' she exclaimed, 'if you love me, leave this cruel business. Let us live upon a crust.
I will work for you. I will submit to any thing to see you calm and happy. This will kill you.'

"'It will, it must!' I cried out in misery. 'I cannot help it. What is to be done?'

"'Retire from it--resign all--every thing--but save us both. This agitation--this ceaseless
wear and tear--must eventually, and soon, destroy you. What, then, becomes of me?'

"'Show me, Anna, how I can do what you desire with honour. Show me the way, and I will bless
you. Oh, why did I not heed your words before! Why did I suffer myself to be entrapped'--

"She stopped me in my exclamations.

"'You have promised, dear,' said she, 'never to look upon the past. You acted for the best.
So did we all. It is our consolation and support. But the present is sad and mournful, and,
I believe, it rests with ourselves to secure our happiness for the future. Are you content
to do it?'

"'Oh, can you ask me, Anna? Tell me how I may escape without discredit--without shame and one
dishonourable taint--and you take me from the depths of my despair. I see no end to this career.
I am fixed to the stake, and I must burn.'

"'Listen to me, dearest. You shall write to your uncle without delay, and explain to him your
wishes. You shall tell him of your difficulties frankly and unreservedly. Make known to him
your state of health, and tell him firmly that you are unequal to the burden which is laid
upon you. Should he insist upon a recompense for your loss, you have money of your own there--yield
it to him, and these hands shall never rest until they have earned for you every shilling of
it back again. Be tranquil, resolute, cheerful, and all will yet be well, I trust--I feel it will.'

"I had once refused to act on her advice, and the consequences had been dire enough. When compliance
was too late, I implicitly obeyed her. The letter was written, and an answer came as speedily
as we could wish it. It was a kind reply. My uncle was sorry for my illness, and was content
to take the business off my hands, if I was ready to resign it in the condition that I had
found it. And this, I thanked my God with tears of joy, I was prepared to do. My personal expenses
had been trifling. The amount of business done was large--my the profits had not been withdrawn.
Although my sufferings had been great, and difficulties had met me which I could neither prevent
nor comprehend, still reason told me that the property must have increased in value. It was
with alacrity that I engaged, at my uncle's particular request, an accountant to investigate
the proceedings of the house, and to pronounce upon its present state. The result of the examination
could not but be most satisfactory. It did not occur to me at the time, that my uncle had deemed
no accountant necessary when he heaped upon me the responsibility which I had borne so ill.
It would have been but fair, methinks. A time was fixed for a meeting with my uncle, and for
producing the result of the enquiry. The accountant had been closely engaged at his work for
many days, and had brought it to an end only on the evening preceding the day of our appointment.
He submitted his estimate to me, and you shall judge my horror when I perused it. There were
many sheets of paper, but in one line my misery was summed up. EIGHT THOUSAND POUNDS were deficient
and unaccounted for. Yes, and my own small fortune had been included in the amount of capital.
The accountant had been careful and exact--there was not a flaw in his reckoning. The glaring
discrepancy stared me in the face, and pronounced my ruin. I knew not what to think or do.
In accents of the most earnest supplication, I entreated the accountant to pass the night in
reviewing his labours, and to afford me, if possible, the means of rescuing my name from the
obloquy which, in a few hours, must attach to it. I offered him any sum of money--all that
he could ask--for his pains, and he promised to comply with my request. The idea that I had
been the victim of a trick, a fraud, never glanced across my mind. No, when my wretchedness
permitted me to think at all, I suspected and accused no one but myself. I could imagine and
believe that, inadvertently, I had committed some great error when my soul had been darkened
by the daily and hourly anxieties which had followed it so long. But how to discover it? How
to make my innocence apparent to the world? How to face my uncle? How to brave the taunts of
men? How, above all, to meet the huge demands which soon would press and fall upon me? The
tortures of hell cannot exceed in acuteness all that I suffered that long and bitter night.
The accountant was waiting for me in the parlour when I left my bed. He had spent the night
as I had wished him but had not found one error in his calculations. I tore the papers from
his hands, and strained my eyes upon the pages to extract the lie which existed there to damn
me. It would not go--it could not be removed. I was a doomed, lost man. Whatever might be the
consequence, I resolved to see my uncle, and to speak the truth. I relied upon the sympathy
which I believed inherent in the nature of man. I relied upon my own integrity, and the serenity
which conscious innocence should give. I met my uncle. I shall never forget that interview.
He received me in his private house--in his drawing-room. We were alone. He sat at a table:
his face was somewhat pale, but he was cool and undisturbed--ah, how much more so than his
trembling sacrifice! I placed before him the condemning paper. It was that only that he cared
to see. He looked at once to the result, and then, without a word, he turned his withering
eye upon me.

"'I know it,' I cried out, not permitting him to speak. 'I know what you would say. It is a
mystery, and I cannot solve it. There is a fearful error somewhere--but where I know not. I
am as innocent--'

"'Innocent!' exclaimed my uncle, in a tone of bitterness, 'Well, go on, sir.'

"'Yes, innocent,' I repeated. 'Time will prove it, and make the mystery clear. My brain is
now confused; but it cannot be that this gigantic error can escape me when I am calm--composed.
Grant me but time.'

"'I grant nothing,' said my uncle, fiercely. 'Plunderer! I show no mercy. You would have shown
me none--you would have left me in the lurch, and laughed at me as you made merry with your
stolen wealth. Mark me, sir--restore it--labour till you have made it good, or I crush you--once,
and for ever.'

"I was rendered speechless by these words. I attempted to make answer; but my tongue clove
to the roof of my mouth--my throat grew dry and hot--my brain was dizzy, and the room swam
round me. I thought of the name which I had been striving for years to build up--the honourable
name which I had gained--the height from which I was about to fall--the yawning gulf below--a
thousand painful thoughts rushed in one instant to my mind, and overcame me. I should have
fallen to the earth, had not my heart found in my eyes a passage for its grief, and rendered
me weaker than a child before a creature who had never felt the luxury of one human tear. I
wept aloud and fearfully.

"'Guilt, guilt, palpable guilt!' exclaimed my uncle. 'None but the guilty weep. You do not
take me by surprise, young man. I was prepared for this--I have but a word to say. Restore
this money, or undertake to pay it back to me--to the last farthing of my lawful claim. Do
this, and I forgive you, and forget your indiscretion. Refuse, and to-morrow you are a bankrupt
and a beggar. Leave me, and take time for your decision. Come to me again this evening. If
you fail--you may expect a visit in the morning.'

"This was said deliberately, but in a tone most expressive of sincerity. I staggered from his
presence, and hurried homeward. A sickening sensation checked me as I approached my door. I
could not enter it. I rushed away; and in the open fields, where I could weep and rave unnoticed
and alone, I cursed my fate, and entreated heaven to smite me with its thunders. My mind was
tottering. Hours passed before I reached the house again, how, when, or by what means I arrived
there, I could not tell. The servant girl who gave me admittance looked savagely upon me, as
I thought. It was sorrow, and not anger, that was written in her face; but how could I discriminate?
Her mistress was seriously ill. She had been alarmed by the visit of a gentleman, who waited
for me in the parlour, and by my protracted absence; and her agitation had brought on the pangs
of labour. A physician was now with her. Who was this gentleman? I entered the room, and there
the fiend sate, white with irritation and gnawing disappointment. I started back, but he advanced
to me--held my papers to my face, and pointed to one portion of them with a finger that was
alive with rage and agitation.

"'Is it true?' asked my uncle, gnashing his teeth. 'Answer me--yes or no?--one word, is it true?'

"'It is a lie!' I answered, ignorant of his meaning, and half crazed with the excitement. 'I
am innocent--innocent--Heaven knows I am.'

"'Have you, or have you not given to Gilbert, for these heavy sums, a power of attorney? Has
he got it? Answer me in a word.'

"'He advanced me money,' I replied, 'and I gave him such documents as he required.'

"'Enough!' said my uncle. 'You are a beggar!'--and without another word he left me.

"For a week my wife remained in a dangerous condition. Threatened with the loss of her, I did
not leave her side. What was the business to me at such a time?--what was reputation--what
life? Life!--sir, I carried about with me a potent poison, and I waited only for her latest
breath to drink it off, and join her in the grave. She rallied, however, and once more I walked
abroad--to find myself a bankrupt and a castaway. The very day that my uncle quitted me, he
called my creditors together--exposed the state of my affairs--and accused me of the vilest
practices. A docket was struck against me. Every thing that I possessed was dragged away--even
to the bed on which my Anna had been cast, and which she so much needed now. Every thing was
gone; but the blow had fallen, and I was callous to the loss. In the midst of the desolation
I struggled to preserve one trifle from the common wreck. Do not smile, sir, when I mention
my reputation. Yes, I felt that if it could be rescued all might be spared, and I might yet
defy and shame my persecutors. I appealed to the commissioner who had charge of my estate.
I proclaimed aloud, and in the face of men, my innocence. I conjured him to subject me to the
severest trial--to compel the closest examination of my affairs--my books--and every individual
connected with the house. I demanded it for the sake of justice--for my own sake, and for the
sake of the poor creatures--I was a father now--whose fortunes were linked with mine, whose
bread depended upon the verdict which should be pronounced against me. My passionate supplication
was not in vain. The affairs of our house were looked into--the business that had been done
for years was sifted--and clerks and men were subjected to every interrogatory that could elucidate
a fact. At the end of six months it was publicly announced that an important error had been
discovered--that the estimate given to me was incorrect, and by many thousand pounds greater
than the true value.

"There had been a mistake! The bankrupt departed from the court without a blemish on his character.
He had been indiscreet in entering heedlessly upon so large an undertaking, and must pay dearly
for that in discretion. He was strictly liable and bound to pay what he had acknowledged with
his hand to be a lawful debt. There was no help for him. The young man was worthy of commiseration,
and his creditors should show him mercy." This was the verdict of the commissioner, spoken
in the ears of one who was a stranger to mercy, and who had vowed to show me none. Guilt, however,
attached to my good name no longer, and I smiled at his malignity. It was too soon to smile.
The secret of all my difficulty was now explained. Trading upon a false capital, to an extravagant
extent beyond the real one--draining my exchequer of its resources to pay an ever-recurring
interest, whilst the principal was but a fiction in the estate, it was no wonder that I became
hemmed in by claims impossible to meet, and that the services of Mr Gilbert were so soon in
requisition. In giving to Mr Gilbert a power over the firm, I acted according to my ideas of
justice. When I was impoverished, he furnished me with the means of keeping up the credit of
the house. But for him it must have fallen. I believed that I was solvent. Why should I hesitate
to make this man secure? But it is for this preference, which rendered my uncle's dividend
comparatively nothing, that I have been followed through my life with rancour and malevolence
unparalleled. Mark me, sir; the mistake, as it was called--the vital error--was a deliberate
fraud committed by my uncle at the outset.

He had withdrawn this heavy sum of money at the beginning--he had resolved to keep me for my
life his servant and his slave--to feast upon the dropping sweat of my exhausted mind--to convert
my heart's blood into gold, which was his god. He hated me for my conduct towards him in my
boyhood, which he had neither forgotten nor forgiven; and his detestation gave zest to his
hellish desire of accumulating wealth at any cost. Had I applied to him, had I entered into
new engagements with him, given to him the securities which, from a notion of right, I had
presented to Gilbert--had I made over to the fiend soul as well as body, I might still have
retained his friendship, still been permitted to labour and to toil for his aggrandizement
and ease. It was Gilbert himself who revealed to me his patron's villany. It was time for the
vultures to quarrel when they could not both fatten on my prostrate carcass; but they were
bound together by the dark doings of years, and it was only by imperfect hints and innuendoes
that I was made aware of their treachery. If proofs existed to convict my uncle, Gilbert could
not afford to produce them. The price was life, or something short of it; but I heard enough
for satisfaction. Although I was deprived of everything that I possessed, my mind recovered
its buoyancy, and my spirit, after the first shock, grew sanguine. I had been proclaimed an
innocent and injured man, and my beloved Anna was at my side smiling and rejoicing. In our
overthrow, she beheld only the dark storm of morning, that sometimes ushers in the glorious
noon and golden sunset. I spoke of the past with anger; she reverted to it with the chastened
sorrow of a repentant angel. I looked to the future with distrust and apprehension, she, with
a bright, abiding confidence. Never had she appeared so happy, so contented--never had the
smile remained so constant to her cheek, so unalloyed with touch of care, as when we stood
houseless and homeless in the world, and nothing but her fortitude and love were left me to
rely upon. My first care after my dismission into life again, was to obtain my certificate
from my creditors, and with almost all of them I was successful. The exceptions were my uncle,
and three individuals--his creatures, and willing instruments of torture. They were sufficient
to brand me with disgrace, and to affix for ever to my name that mark of infamy which an after
life of virtue shall never wash away or hide. UNCERTIFICATED BANKRUPT was the badge I carried
with me. From this period my decline was rapid and unequivocal. A creditor, who had not proved
his debt upon the estate, hearing tell of my defenceless situation, cast me forthwith into
prison. I will not tell you of the sufferings we endured during a two years' cruel incarceration.
Starvation and its horrors came gradually upon us. Application upon application was made to
my uncle; entreaties for nothing more than justice; and my poor meek Anna was turned with contumely
from his doors. After years of privation, a glimmering of light stole in upon us, to be soon
extinguished. I obtained temporary employment in a school far away from the scenes of my misery,
and hither my evil fortune followed me. The schoolmaster was an ignorant, gross man. He gained
my services for a song, and he treated me with disrespect in consequence. I had been with him
about six months when some silver spoons were stolen from his house. The thief escaped detection;
but the master received an anonymous communication, containing a false history of my life,
with a true statement of my unfortunate position. He at once charged me with the crime of being
an uncertificated bankrupt. I confessed to it, and the very day I was dragged before a magistrate
on suspicion of felony. I was acquitted, it is true, for want of evidence; but what could acquit
me--what could release me from the super-added stigma? An uncertificated bankrupt, and a suspected
felon! Alas! the charity of man will not look further than the surface of things, and is it
not secretly pleased to find there, rather an excuse for neglect, than a reason for exertion?
Excited almost to madness by privation and want, and unable to get assistance from a human
being, I visited my uncle. I could not see my wife and children drooping and sinking day by
day, and not make one great struggle for their rescue. I resolved to accost him with meekness
and humility--yes, to fall upon my knees and kiss the dust before him, so that he would fill
their famished mouths. He would not see me. I watched for him in the street, and there addressed
him. He reviled me--cast me off--provoked me to exasperation, and finally gave me into custody
for an attempt upon his life. Again I was taken to the magistrate, but not again discharged
so easily. My character and previous offences were exhibited. The magistrate, serious with
judicial sorrow, looked upon me as you would turn an eye towards a reptile that defiles the
earth. I appealed to him, and in a loud and animated voice proclaimed my grievances. It was
suggested that I was a lunatic, and whilst the justice committed me to hard labour, he benevolently
promised that the prison surgeon should visit me, and pronounce upon my fitness for Saint Luke's.
It was during my temporary confinement for this offence, that I was seized with the illness
from which I have never since been free. For three years I was unable to work for my family,
and by the end of that period we were sunk into the lowest depths. My Anna sickened likewise;
but as long as she was able she laboured for our support. We have been hunted and driven from
place to place, and the little which we have been able to earn in our wanderings, has hardly
kept us alive. Twice have I stolen a loaf of bread to appease the children's hunger. What could
I do? I could not bear to see their languid glassy eyes, and hear their little voices imploring
for the food--God knows, I could not let them die before my face--I could not be their murderer--I
could not--"

"Stay, Mr Warton," said I, interrupting the narrator, "I have heard enough. Spare me for the
present. Your statements must be corroborated. This is all I ask. Leave the rest to me."

If the reader has perused, with painful interest, the account that I have laid before him,
let me gratify him with the intelligence that I have accomplished for this unfortunate family
all that I could wish. Warton's account of himself was strengthened and confirmed by the strict
enquiry which I set on foot immediately. He was, as he asserted, an innocent and injured man.
Satisfied of this, I transmitted to the worthy judge, who had been moved by the man's misfortunes,
a faithful history of his life. I was not disappointed here. It was that functionary who obtained
for Warton the situation which he at present fills--and for his children the education which
they are now receiving. Nor was this his first exertion on their behalf. It was he who furnished
them with clothing on the night of the criminal's discharge. They are restored to happiness,
to comfort, and to health. The moderate ambition of the faithful Anna is realized, and my vision
is a vision no longer.

Reader, I have nothing more to add. I have told you a simple tale and a true one. It is for
you to say whether it shall be--useless and uninstructive.

       *       *       *       *       *

FREDERICK SCHLEGEL.[1]

[Footnote A: 1. Geschichte der alten und neuen Literatur von FRIEDRICH SCHLEGEL. Neue auflage.
Berlin, 1842.

2. Lectures on the History of Ancient and Modern Literature, from the German of Frederick Schlegel.
New edition. Blackwood: Edinburgh and London, 1841.

3. The Philosophy of History, translated from the German of FRIEDRICH VON SCHLEGEL, with a
Memoir of the Author, by JAMES BURTON ROBERTSON, Esq. In two vols. London, 1835. Reprinted
in America, 1841.

4. Philosophie des Lebens von FRIEDRICH SCHLEGEL. Wien, 1828.]

"I would not have you pin your faith too closely to these SCHLEGELS," said FICHTE one day at
Berlin to VARNHAGEN VON ENSE, or one of his friends, in his own peculiar, cutting, commanding
style--"I would not have you pin your faith to these Schlegels. I know them well. The elder
brother wants depth, and the younger clearness. One good thing they both have--that is, hatred
of mediocrity; but they have also both a great jealousy of the highest excellence; and, therefore,
where they can neither be great themselves nor deny greatness in others, they, out of sheer
desperation, fall into an outrageous strain of eulogizing. Thus they have bepraised Goethe,
and thus they have bepraised me."[B]

[Footnote B: Denkwürdigkeiten von K. A. VARNHAGEN VON ENSE. Mannheim, 1837. Vol. ii. p. 60.]

Some people, from pride, don't like to be praised at all; and all sensible people, from propriety,
don't like to be praised extravagantly: whether from pride or from propriety, or from a mixture
of both, philosopher Fichte seemed to have held in very small account the patronage with which
he was favoured at the hands of the twin aesthetical dictators, the Castor and Pollux of romantic
criticism; and, strange enough also, poet Goethe, who had worship enough in his day, and is
said to have been somewhat fond of the homage, chimes in to the same tune thus: "the Schlegels,
with all their fine natural gifts, have been unhappy men their life long, both the one and
the other; they wished both to be and do something more than nature had given them capacity
for; and accordingly they have been the means of bringing about not a little harm both in art
and literature. From their false principles in the fine arts--principles which, however much
trumpeted and gospeled about, were in fact egotism united with weakness--our German artists
have not yet recovered, and are filling the exhibitions, as we see, with pictures which nobody
will buy. Frederick, the younger of these Dioscouri, choked himself at last with the eternal
chewing of moral and religious absurdities, which, in his uncomfortable passage through life,
he had collected together from all quarters, and was eager to hawk about with the solemn air
of a preacher to every body: he accordingly betook himself, as a last refuge, to Catholicism,
and drew after him, as a companion to his own views, a man of very fair but falsely overwrought
talent--Adam Müller.

"As for their Sanscrit studies again, that was at bottom only a pis aller. They were clear-sighted
enough to perceive that neither Greek nor Latin offered any thing brilliant enough for them;
they accordingly threw themselves into the far East; and in this direction, unquestionably,
the talent of Augustus William manifests itself in the most honourable way. All that, and more,
time will show. Schiller never loved them: hated them rather; and I think it peeps out of our
correspondence how I did my best, in our Weimar circles at least, to keep this dislike from
coming to an open difference. In the great revolution which they actually effected, I had the
luck to get off with a whole skin, (sie liessen mich noth dürftig stehen,) to the great annoyance
of their romantic brother Novalis, who wished to have me simpliciter deleted. 'Twas a lucky
thing for me, in the midst of this critical hubbub, that I was always too busy with myself
to take much note of what others were saying about me.

"Schiller had good reason to be angry with them. With their aesthetical denunciations and critical
club-law, it was a comparatively cheap matter for them to knock him down in a fashion; but
Schiller had no weapons that could prostrate them. He said to me on one occasion, displeased
with my universal toleration even for what I did not like. 'KOTZEBUE, with his frivolous fertility,
is more respectable in my eyes than that barren generation, who, though always limping themselves,
are never content with bawling out to those who have legs--STOP!'"[C]

[Footnote C: Briefwechse Zwischen GOETHE und ZELTER. Berlin, 1834. Vol. vi. p. 318.]

That there is some truth in these severe remarks, the paltry personal squibs in the Leipzig
Almanach for 1832, which called them forth, with regard to Augustus Schlegel at least, sufficiently
show: but there is a general truth involved in them also, which the worthy fraternity of us
who, in this paper age, wield the critical pen, would do well to take seriously to heart; and
it is this, that great poets and philosophers have a natural aversion as much to be praised
and patronized, as to be rated and railed at by great critics; and very justly so. For as a
priest is a profane person, who makes use of his sacred office mainly to show his gods about,
(so to speak,) that people may stare at them, and worship him; so a critic who forgets his
inferior position in reference to creative genius, so far as to assume the air of legislation
and dictatorship, when explanation and commentary are the utmost he can achieve, has himself
only to blame, if, after his noisy trumpet has blared itself out, he reaps only ridicule from
the really witty, and reproof from the substantially wise. Not that a true philosopher or poet
shrinks from, and does not rather invite, true criticism. The evil is not in the deed, but
in the manner of doing it. Here, as in all moral matters, the tone of the thing is the soul
of the thing. And in this view, the blame which Fichte and Goethe attach to the Schlegels,
amounts substantially to this, not that in their critical vocation the romantic brothers wanted
either learning or judgment generally, but that they were too ambitious, too pretenceful, too
dictatorial that they must needs talk on all subjects, and always as if they were the masters
and the lions, when they were only the servants and the exhibitors; that they made a serious
business of that which is often best done when it is done accidentally, viz. discussing what
our neighbours are about, instead of doing something ourselves; and that they attempted to
raise up an independent literary reputation, nay, and even to found a new poetical school,
upon mere criticism--an attempt which, with all due respect for Aristarchus and the Alexandrians,
is, and remains, a literary impossibility.

But was Frederick Schlegel merely a critic? No He was a philosopher also, and not a vulgar
one; and herein lies the foundation of his fame. His criticism, also, was thoroughly and characteristically
a philosophical criticism; and herein mainly, along with its vastness of erudition and comprehensiveness
of view, lies the foundation of its fame. To understand the criticism thoroughly, one must
first understand the philosophy. Will the unphilosophical English reader have patience with
us for a few minutes while we endeavour to throw off a short sketch of the philosophy of Frederick
Schlegel? If the philosophical system of a transcendental German and Viennese Romanist, can
have small intrinsic practical value to a British Protestant, it may extrinsically be of use
even to him as putting into his hands the key to one of the most intellectual, useful, an popular
books of modern times--"The history of ancient and modern literature, by Frederick Von Schlegel,"--a
book, moreover, which is not merely "a great national possession of the Germans," as by one
of themselves it has been proudly designated, but has also, through the classical translation
of Mr Lockhart,[D] been made the peculiar property of English literature.

[Footnote D: Lectures on the History of Literature, Ancient and Modern. Blackwoods, Edinburgh,
1841.]

In the first chapter of his "Philosophie des Lebens," the Viennese lecturer states very clearly
the catholic and comprehensive ground which all philosophy must take that would save itself
from dangerous error. The philosopher must start from the complete living totality of man,
formed as he is, not of flesh merely, a Falstaff--or of spirit merely, a Simon Pillarman and
Total Abstinence Saint--but of both flesh and spirit, body and soul, in his healthy and normal
condition. For this reason clearly--true philosophy is not merely sense-derived and material
like the French philosophy of Helvetius, nor altogether ideal like that of Plotinus, and the
pious old mathematical visionaries at Alexandria; but it stands on mother earth, like old Antaeus
drinking strength therefrom, and filches fire at the same time, Prometheus-like, from heaven,
feeding men with hopes--not, as Aeschylus says, altogether "blind," ([Greek: tuphlas d eu autois
elôidas katôkioa)] but only blinking. Don't court, therefore, if you would philosophize wisely,
too intimate an acquaintance with your brute brother, the baboon--a creature, whose nature
speculative naturalists have most cunningly set forth by the theory, that it is a parody which
the devil, in a fit of ill humour, made upon God's noblest work, man; and don't hope, on the
other hand, as many great saints and sages have done, by prayer and fasting, or by study and
meditation, to work yourself up to a god, and jump bodily out of your human skin. Assume as
the first postulate, and lay it down as the last proposition of your "philosophy of life,"
that a man is neither a brute, nor a god nor an angel, but simply and sheerly a MAN. Furthermore,
as man is not only a very comprehensive and complex, but also, (to appearance at least,) in
many points, a very contrary and contradictory creature, see that you take the whole man along
with you into your metaphysical chamber; for if there be one paper that has a bearing in the
case amissing out of your green bag, (which has happened only too often,) the evidence will
be imperfect, and the sentence false or partial--shake your wig as you please. Remember, that
though you may be a very subtle logician, the soul of man is not all made up of logic; remember
that reason, (Vernunft,) the purest that Kant ever criticized withal, is not the proper vital
soul in man; is not the creative and productive faculty in intellect at all, but is merely
the tool of that which, in philosophers no less than in poets, is the proper inventive power,
IMAGINATION, as Wordsworth phrases it: Schlegel's word is fantasie. Remember that in more cases
than academic dignities may be willing to admit, the heart (where a man has one) is the only
safe guide, the only legitimate ruler of the head; and that a mere metaphysician, and solitary
speculator, however properly trimmed,

  "One to whose smooth-rubb'd soul can cling
  Nor form nor feeling, great nor small;
  A reasoning, self-sufficing thing,
  An intellectual all-in-all,"

may write very famous books, profound even to unintelligibility, but can never be a philosopher.
Therefore reject Hegel, "that merely thinking, on a barren heath speculating, self-sufficient,
self-satisfied little EGO;"[E] and consider Kant as weighed in the balance and found wanting
on his own showing: for if that critical portal of pure reason had indeed been sufficient,
as it gave itself out to be, for all the purposes of a human philosophy, what need was there
of the "practical back-door" which, at the categorical command of conscience, was afterwards
laid open to all men in the "Metaphysic of Ethics?" As little will you allow your philosophical
need to be satisfied with any thing you can get from SCHELLING; for however well it sounds
to "throw yourself from the transcendental emptiness of ideal reason into the warm embrace
of living and luxuriant nature," here also you will find yourself haunted by the intellectual
phantom of absolute identity, (say absolute inanity,) or in its best phasis a "pantheizing
deification of nature." Strange enough as it may seem, the true philosophy is to be found any
where rather than among philosophers. Each philosopher builds up a reasoned system of a part
of existence; but life is based upon God-given instincts and emotions, with which reason has
nothing to do; and nature contains many things which it is not given to mortal brain to comprehend,
much less to systematize. True philosophy is not to be found in any intellectual system, much
less in any of the Aristotelian quality, where the emotional element in man is excluded or
subordinated; but in a living experience. To know philosophy, therefore, first know life. To
learn to philosophize, learn to live; and live not partially, but with the full outspread vitality
of human reason. You go to college, and, as if you were made altogether of head, expect some
Peter Abelard forthwith, by academic disputation, to reason you into manhood; but neither manhood
nor any vital WHOLE ever was learned by reasoning. Pray, therefore, to the Author of all good,
in the first place, that you may be something rather than that you may know something. Get
yourself planted in God's garden, and learn to GROW. Woo the sun of life, which is love, and
the breeze which is enthusiasm, an impulse from that same creative Spirit, which, brooding
upon the primeval waters, out of void brought fulness, and out of chaos a world.

[Footnote E: This is Menzel's phrase, not Schlegel's. "Hegel's centrum war ein blos denkendes,
auf öder Heide spekulirendes, kleines, suffisantes, selbstgenügsames Ichlein." The untranslatable
beauty of the German is in the diminutive with which the sentence closes. It is difficult to
say whether Menzel or Schlegel shows the greater hostility to the poor Berlin philosopher.]

Such, shortly, so far as we can gather, is the main scope, popularly stated, of Frederick Schlegel's
philosophy, as it is delivered in his two first lectures on the philosophy of life, the first
being titled, "Of the thinking soul, or the central point of consciousness;" and the second,
"Of the loving soul, or the central point of moral life." The healthy-toned reader, who has
been exercised in speculations of this kind, will feel at once that there is much that is noble
in all this, and much that is true; but not a little also, when examined in detail, of that
sublime-sounding sweep of despotic generality, (so inherent a vice of German literature,) which
delights to confound the differences, rather than to discriminate the characters, of things;
much that seems only too justly to warrant that oracular sentence of the stern Fichte with
which we set out, "The younger brother wants clearness;" much that, when applied to practice,
and consistently followed out in that grand style of consistency which belongs to a real German
philosopher, becomes what we in English call Puseyism and Popery, and what Goethe in German
called a "chewing the cud of moral and religious absurdities." But we have neither space nor
inclination, in this place, to make an analysis of the Schlegelian philosophy, or to set forth
how much of it is true and how much of it is false. Our intention was merely to sketch a rapid
outline, in as popular phrase as philosophy would allow itself to be clothed in; to finish
which outline without extraneous remark, with the reader's permission, we now proceed.

If man be not, according to Aristotle's phrase, a [Greek: zôon logikon] in his highest faculty,
a ratiocinative, but rather an emotional and imaginative animal; and if to start from, as to
end, in mere reason, be in human psychology a gross one-sidedness, much more in theology is
such a procedure erroneous, and altogether perverse. If not the smallest poem of a small poet
ever came to him from mere reason, but from something deeper and more vital, much less are
the strong pulsations of pure emotion, the deep-seated convictions of religious faith in the
inner man, to be spoke of as things that mere reason can either assert or deny; and in fact
we see, when we look narrowly into the great philosophical systems that have been projected
by scheming reasoners in France and Germany, each man out of his own brain, that they all end
either in materialism and atheism on the one hand, or in idealism and pantheism on the other.
All our philosophers have stopped short of that one living, personal, moral God, on whose existence
alone humanity can confidently repose--who alone can give to the trembling arch of human speculation
that keystone which it demands. The idea of God, in fact, is not a thing that individual reason
has first to strike out, so to speak, by the collision or combination of ideas, the collocation
of proofs, and the concatenation of arguments. It is a living growth rather of our whole nature,
a primary instinct of all moral beings, a necessary postulate of healthy humanity, which is
given and received as our life and our breath is, and admits not of being reasoned into any
soul that has it not already from other sources. And as no philosopher of Greek or German times
that history tells of, ever succeeded yet in inventing a satisfactory theology, or establishing
a religion in which men could find solace to their souls, therefore it is clear that that satisfactory
Christian theology and Christian religion which we have, and not only that, but all the glimpses
of great theological truth that are found twinkling through the darkness of a widespread superstition,
came originally from God by common revelation, and not from man by private reasoning. The knowledge
of God and a living theology is, in fact, a simple science of experience like any other, only
of a peculiar quality and higher in degree. All true human knowledge in moral matters rests
on experience, internal or external, higher or lower, on tradition, on language as the bearer
of tradition, on revelation; while that false, monstrous, and unconditioned science to which
the pride of human reason has always aspired, which would grasp at every thing at once by one
despotic clutch, and by a violent bound of logic bestride and beride the ALL, is, and remains,
an oscillating abortion that always would be something, and always can be nothing. A living,
personal, moral God, the faith of nations, the watch-word of tradition, the cry of nature,
the demand of mind, received not invented, existing in the soul not reasoned into it--this
is the gravitating point of the moral world, the only intelligible centre of any world; from
which whatsoever is centrifugal errs, and to which whatsoever is opposed is the devil.

Not private speculation, therefore, or famous philosophies of any kind, but the living spiritual
man, and the totality of the living flow of sacred tradition on which he is borne, and with
which he is encompassed, are the two grand sources of "the philosophy of life." Let us follow
these principles, now, into a few of their wide-spread streams and multiform historical branchings.
First, the Bible clearly indicates what the profoundest study of the earliest and most venerable
literatures confirms, that man was not created at first in a brutish state, crawling with a
slow and painful progress out of the dull slime of a half organic state into apehood, and from
apehood painfully into manhood; but he was created perfect in the image of God, and has fallen
from his primeval glory. This is to be understood not only of the state of man before the Fall
as recorded in the two first chapters of Genesis; but every thing in the Bible, and the early
traditions of famous peoples, warrants us to believe, that the first ages of men before the
Flood, were spiritually enlightened from one great common source of extraordinary aboriginal
revelation; so that the earliest ages of the world were not the most infantine and ignorant
to a comprehensive survey, as modern conceit so fondly imagines, but the most gigantic and
the most enlightened. That beautiful but material and debasing heathenism, with which our Greek
and Latin education has made us so familiar, is only a defaced fragment of the venerable whole
which preceded it, that old and true heathenism of the holy aboriginal fathers of our race.
"There were GIANTS on the earth in those days." We read this; but who believes it? We ought
seriously to consider what it means, and adopt it bona fide into our living faith of man, and
man's history. Like the landscape of some Alpine country, where the primeval granite Titans,
protruding their huge shoulders every where above us and around, make us feel how petty and
how weak a thing is man; so ought our imagination to picture the inhabitants of the world before
the Flood. Nobility precedes baseness always, and truth is more ancient than error. Antediluvian
man--antediluvian nature, is to be imaged as nobler in every respect, more sublime and more
pure than postdiluvian man, and postdiluvian nature. But mighty energies, when abused, produce
mighty corruptions; hence the gigantic scale of the sins into which the antediluvian men fell;
and the terrible precipitation of humanity which followed. This is a point of primary importance,
in every attempt to understand how to estimate the value of that world-famous Greek philosophy,
which is commonly represented as the crown and the glory of the ancient world. All that Pythagoras
and Plato ever wrote of noble and elevating truths, are merely flashes of that primeval light,
in the full flood of which, man, in his more perfect antediluvian state, delighted to dwell;
and it is remarkable in the case of Pythagoras, Anaxagoras, Thales, and so many other of the
Greek philosophers, that the further we trace them back, we come nearer to the divine truth,
which, in the systems of Epicurus, Aristippus, Zeno, or the shallow or cold philosophers of
later origin, altogether disappears. Pythagoras and Plato were indeed divinely gifted with
a scientific presentiment of the great truths of Christianity soon to be revealed, or say rather
restored to the world; while Aristotle, on the other hand, is to be regarded as the father
of those unhappy academical schismatics from the Great Church of living humanity, who allowed
the ministrant faculty of reason to assume an unlawful supremacy over the higher powers of
intellect, and gave birth to that voracious despotism of barren dialectics, in the middle ages
commonly called the scholastic philosophy. The Greek philosophy, however, even its noblest
Avatar, Plato, much less in the case of a Zeno or an Aristotle, was never able to achieve that
which must be the practically proposed end of all higher philosophy that is in earnest; viz.
the coming out of the narrow sphere of the school and the palaestra, uniting itself with actual
life, and embodying itself completely in the shape of that which we call a CHURCH. This Platonism
could not do. Christianity did it. Revelation did it. God Incarnate did it. Now once again
came humanity forth, fresh from the bosom of the divine creativeness, conquering and to conquer.
There was no Aristotle and Plato--no Abelard and Bernard here--reason carping at imagination,
and imagination despising reason. But once, if but once in four thousand years, man appeared
in all the might of his living completeness. Love walked hand in hand with knowledge, and both
were identified in life. The spirit of divine peace brooded in the inner sanctuary of the heart,
while the outer man was mailed for the sternest warfare. Such was pure Christianity, so long
as it lasted--for the celestial plant was condemned to grow in a terrestrial atmosphere; and
there, alas! it could only grow with a stunted likeness of itself. It was more than stunted
also--it was tainted; for are not all things tainted here? Do we not live in a tainted atmosphere?
do we not live in a time out of joint? Does not the whole creation literally groan? Too manifestly
it does, however natural philosophers may affect to speak of the book of nature, as if it were
the clear and uncorrupted text of the living book of God. Not only man, but the whole environment
of external nature, which belongs to him, has been deranged by the Fall. In such a world as
this, wherein whoso will not believe a devil cannot believe a God, it was impossible for Christianity
to remain in that state of blissful vital harmony with itself with which it set out. It became
divided. Extravagant developments of ambitious, monopolizing faculties became manifest on every
side. Self-sufficing Pelagianisn and Arianism, here; self-confounding Gnosticism and Manichaeism
there. Then came those two great strifes and divisions of the middle ages--the one, that old
dualism of the inner man, the ever-repeated strife between reason and imagination, to which
we have so often alluded--the other, a no less serious strife of the outward machinery of life,
the strife between the spiritual and the temporal powers, between the Pope and the Emperor.
This was bad enough; that the two vicars of God on earth should not know to keep the peace
among themselves, when the keeping of the peace among others was the very end and aim of the
appointment. But worse times were coming. For in the middle ages, notwithstanding the rank
evils of barren scholasticism, secular-minded popes, and intrusive emperors, there was still
a church, a common Christian religion, a common faith of all Christians; but now, since that
anarchical and rebellious movement, commonly called the Reformation, but more fitly termed
the revolution, the overturning and overthrowing of the religion of Christendom, we have no
more a mere internal strife and division to vex us, but there is an entire separation and divorce
of one part of the Christian church (so called) from the main mother institution. The abode
of peace has become the camp of war and the arena of battles; that dogmatical theology of the
Christian church, which, if it be not the infallible pure mathematics of the moral world, has
been deceiving men for 1800 years, and is a liar--that theology is now publicly discussed and
denied, scorned and scouted by men who do not blush to call themselves Christians; there is
no universal peace any longer to be found in that region where it is the instinct of humanity,
before all things, to seek repose; the only religious peace which the present age recognises,
is that of which the Indian talks, when he says of certain epochs of the world's history, Brahma
sleeps! Those who sleep and are indifferent in spiritual matters find peace; but those who
are alive and awake must beat the wind, and battle, belike, with much useless loss of strength,
before they can arrive even at that first postulate of all healthy thinking--there is a God.
"Ueber Gott werd ich nie streiten," said Herder. "About God I will never dispute." Yet look
at German rationalism, look at Protestant theology--what do you see there? Reason usurping
the mastery in each individual, without control of the higher faculties of the soul, and of
those institutions in life by which those faculties are represented; and as one man's reason
is as good as another's, thence arises war of each self-asserted despotism against that which
happens to be next it, and of all against all--a spiritual anarchy, which threatens the entire
dissolution of the moral world, and from which there is no refuge but in recurring to the old
traditionary faith of a revolted humanity, no redemption but in the venerable repository of
those traditions--the one and indivisible holy Catholic church of Christ, of whom, as the inner
and eternal keystone is God, so the outer and temporal is the Pope.

Such is a general outline of the philosophy of Frederick Schlegel--a philosophy belonging to
the class theological and supernatural, to the genus Christian, to the species sacerdotal and
Popish. Now, without stopping here to blame its sublime generalities and beautiful confusions,
on the one hand, or to praise its elevated tendency, its catholic and reconciling tone on the
other, we shall merely call attention, in a single sentence, physiologically, to its main and
distinguishing character. It was, in fact, (in spirit and tendency, though not in outward accomplishment,)
to German literature twenty years ago what Puseyism is now to the English church--it was a
bold and grand attempt to get rid of those vexing doubts and disputes on the most important
subjects that will ever disquiet minds of a certain constitution, so long as they have nothing
to lean on but their own judgment; and as Protestantism, when consistently carried out, summarily
throws a man back on his individual opinion, and subjects the vastest and most momentous questions
to the scrutiny of reason and the torture of doubt, therefore Schlegel in literary Germany,
and Pusey in ecclesiastical England, were equally forced, if they would not lose Christianity
altogether, to renounce Protestantism, and to base their philosophy upon sacerdotal authority
and ecclesiastical tradition. That Schlegel became a Romanist at Cologne, and Dr Pusey an Anglo-Catholic
at Oxford, does not affect the kinship. Both, to escape from the anarchy of Protestant individualism,
(as it was felt by them,) were obliged to assert not merely Christianity, but a hierarchy--not
merely the Bible, but an authoritative interpretation of the Bible; and both found, or seemed
to find, that authoritative interpretation and exorcism of doubt there, where alone in their
circumstances, and intellectually constituted as they were, it was to be found. Dr Pusey did
not become a Papist like Frederick Schlegel, for two plain reasons--first, because he was an
Englishman, second, because he was an English churchman. The authority which he sought for
lay at his door; why should he travel to Rome for it? Archbishop Laud had taught apostolical
succession before--Dr Pusey might teach it again. But this convenient prop of Popery without
the Pope was not prepared for Frederick Schlegel. There was no Episcopal church, no Oxford
in Germany, into whose bosom he could throw himself, and find relief from the agony of religious
doubt. He was a German, moreover, and a philosopher. To his searching eye and circumspective
wariness, the general basis of tradition which might satisfy a Pusey, though sufficiently broad,
did not appear sure enough. To his lofty architectural imagination a hierarchical aristocracy,
untopped by a hierarchical monarch, did not appear sufficiently sublime. To his all-comprehending
and all-combining historical sympathies, a Christian priesthood, with Cyprian, Augustine, and
Jerome, but without Hildebrand, Innocent, and Boniface, would have presented the appearance
of a fair landscape, with a black yawning chasm in the middle, into which whoever looked shuddered.
Therefore Frederick Schlegel, spurning all half measures, inglorious compromises, and vain
attempts to reconcile the irreconcilable, vaulted himself at once, with a bold leap, into the
central point of sacerdotal Christianity. The obstacles that would have deterred ordinary minds
had no effect on him. All points of detail were sunk in the over-whelming importance of the
general question. Transubstantiation or consubstantiation, conception, maculate or immaculate,
were a matter of small moment with him. What he wanted was a divinely commissioned church with
sacred mysteries--a spiritual house of refuge from the weary battle of intellectual east winds,
blasting and barren, with which he saw Protestant Germany desolated. This house of refuge he
found in Cologne, in Vienna; and having once made up his mind that spiritual unity and peace
were to be found only in the one mother church of Christendom, not being one of those half
characters who, "making I dare not wait upon I would," are continually weaving a net of paltry
external no's to entangle the progress of every grand decided yes of the inner man, Schlegel
did not for a moment hesitate to make his thought a deed, and publicly profess his return to
Romanism in the face of enlightened and "ultra-Protestant" Germany. To do this certainly required
some moral courage; and no just judge of human actions will refuse to sympathize with the motive
of this one, however little he may feel himself at liberty to agree with the result.

But Frederick Schlegel, a well informed writer has said,[F] "became Romanist in a way peculiar
to himself, and had in no sense given up his right of private judgment." We have not been able
to see, from a careful perusal of his works, (in all of which there is more or less of theology,)
that there is any foundation for this assertion of Varnhagen. Frederick Schlegel, the German,
was as honest and stout a Romanist in this nineteenth century as any Spanish Ferdinand Catholicus
in the fifteenth. Freedom of speculation indeed, within certain known limits, and spirituality
of creed above what the meagre charity of some Protestants may conceive possible in a Papist,
we do find in this man; but these good qualities a St Bernard, a Dante, a Savonarola, a Fénélon,
had exhibited in the Romish Church before Schlegel, and others as great may exhibit them again.
Freedom of thought, however, in the sense in which it is understood by Protestants, was the
very thing which Schlegel, Göres, Adam Müller, and so many others, did give up when they entered
the Catholic Church.

And if it seem strange to any one that Frederick Schlegel, the learned, the profound, the comprehensive,
should believe in Transubstantiation,[G] let him look at a broader aspect of history than that
of German books, and ask himself--Did Isabella of Castile--the gentle, the noble, the generous--establish
the Inquisition, or allow Ximenes to establish it? In a world which surrounds us on all sides
with apparent contradictions, he who admits a real one now and then into his faith, or into
his practice, is neither a fool nor a monster.

[Footnote F: Varnhagen Von Ense, Rahel's Umgang, i. p. 227. "Er war auf besondere Weise Katholisch,
und hatte seine Geistesfreiheit dabei gar nicht aufgegeben."]

[Footnote G: The following is Schlegel's philosophy of transubstantiation--"Though it be true,
that in the Holy Scriptures, in accordance with the symbolical nature of man, there is much
that is generally symbolical, and symbolically to be understood; yet when a symbol proceeds
immediately from God, it can in this case be nothing less than substantial; it cannot be a
mere sign, it must also be something actual; otherwise it would be as if one would palm on
the eternal LOGOS, who is the ground of all existence and all knowledge, words without meaning
and without power. Quite natural, therefore, it must be regarded, i.e. quite suitable to the
nature of the thing, although per se certainly supernatural, and surpassing all comprehension,
when that highest symbol which forms the proper principle of unity, and the living central
point of Christianity, is perceived to possess this character, that it is at once the sign
and the thing signified. For now, that on the high altar of divine love the one great sacrifice
has been accomplished for ever, and no flame more can rise from it save the inspiration of
a pure God-united will, that solemn act by which the bond formed between the soul and God is
from time to time revealed, can consist in nothing else than this--that here the essential
substance of the divine power and the divine love is in all its lively fullness communicated
to, and received by man, as the miraculous sign of his union with God."--Philosophie des Lebene,
p. 376. On the logic of this remarkable passage, those who are strong in Mill and Whately may
decide; its orthodoxy belongs to the consideration of the Tridentine doctors.]

In his political opinions, Schlegel maintained the same grand consistency that characterizes
his religious philosophy. He had more sense, however, and more of the spirit of Christian fraternity
in him than, for the sake of absolutism, to become a Turk or a Russian; nay, from some passages
in the Concordia--a political journal, published by him and his friend Adam Müller, in 1820,
and quoted by Mr Robertson--it would almost appear that he would have preferred a monarchy
limited by states, conceived in the spirit of the middle ages, to the almost absolute form
of monarchical government, under whose protection he lived and lectured at Vienna. To some
such constitution as that which now exists in Sweden, for instance, we think he would have
had no objections. At the same time, it is certain he gave great offence to the constitutional
party in Germany, by the anti-popular tone of his writings generally, more perhaps than by
any special absolutist abuses which he had publicly patronized. He was, indeed, a decided enemy
to the modern system of representative constitutions, and popular checks; a king by divine
right according to the idea of our English nonjurors, was as necessary a corner-stone to his
political, as a pope by apostolical succession to his ecclesiastical edifice. And as no confessed
corruption of the church, represented as it might be by the monstrous brutality of a Borgia,
or the military madness of a Julius, was, in his view, sufficient to authorize any hasty Luther
to make a profane bonfire of a papal bull; any hot Henry to usurp the trade of manufacturing
creeds; so no "sacred right of insurrection," no unflinching patriotic opposition, no claim
of rights, (by petitioners having swords in their hands,) are admissible in his system of a
Christian state. And as for the British constitution, and "the glorious Revolution of 1688,"
this latter, indeed, is one of the best of a bad kind, and that boasted constitution as an
example of a house divided against itself, and yet not falling, is a perfect miracle of dynamical
art, a lucky accident of politics, scarcely to be looked for again in the history of social
development, much less to be eagerly sought after and ignorantly imitated. Nay, rather, if
we look at this boasted constitution a little more narrowly, and instruct ourselves as to its
practical working, what do we see? "Historical experience, the great teacher of political science,
manifestly shows that in these dynamical states, which exist by the cunningly devised balance
and counter-balance of different powers, what is called governing is, in truth, a continual
strife and contention between the Ministry and the Opposition, who seem to delight in nothing
so much as in tugging and tearing the state and its resources to pieces between them, while
the hallowed freedom of the hereditary monarch seems to serve only as an old tree, under whose
shades the contending parties may the more comfortably choose their ground, and fight out their
battles."[H] It is but too manifest, indeed, according to Schlegel's projection of the universe,
that all constitutionalism is, properly speaking, a sort of political Protestantism, a fretful
fever of the social body, having its origin (like the religious epidemic of the sixteenth century)
in the private conceit of the individual, growing by violence and strife, and ending in dissolution.
This is the ever-repeated refrain of his political discourses, puerile enough, it may be, to
our rude hearing in Britain, but very grateful to polite and patriotic ears at Vienna, when
the cannon of Wagram was yet sounding in audible echo beneath their towers. The propounder
of such philosophy had not only the common necessity of all philosophers to pile up his political
in majestic consistency with his ecclesiastical creed, but he had also to pay back the mad
French liberalism with something more mad if possible, and more despotic. And if also Danton,
and Mirabeau, and Robespierre, and other terrible Avatars of the destroying Siva in Paris,
had raised his naturally romantic temperament a little into the febrile and delirious now and
then, what wonder? Shall the devil walk the public streets at noon day, and men not be afraid?

[Footnote H: Philosophie des Lebens, p.407.]

We said that Frederick Schlegel's philosophy, political and religious, but chiefly religious,
was the grand key to his popular work on the history of literature. We may illustrate this
now by a few instances. In the first place, the "many-sided" Goethe seems to be as little profound
as he is charitable, when he sees nothing in the Sanscrit studies of the romantic brothers
but a pis aller, and a vulgar ambition to bring forward something new, and make German men
stare. We do not answer for the elder brother; but Frederick certainly made the cruise to the
east, as Columbus did to the west, from a romantic spirit of adventure. He was not pleased
with the old world--he wished to find a new world more to his mind, and, beyond the Indus,
he found it. The Hindoos to him were the Greeks of the aboriginal world--"diese Griechen der
Urwelt"--and so much better and more divine than the western Greeks, as the aboriginal world
was better and more divine than that which came after it. If imagination was the prime, the
creative faculty in man, here, in the holy Eddas, it had sat throned for thousands of years
as high as the Himalayas. If repose was sought for, and rest to the soul from the toil and
turmoil of religious wars in Europe, here, in the secret meditations of pious Yooges, waiting
to be absorbed into the bosom of Brahma, surely peace was to be found. Take another matter.
Why did Frederick Schlegel make so much talk of the middle ages? Why were the times, so dark
to others, instinct to him with a steady solar effluence, in comparison of which the boasted
enlightenment of these latter days was but as the busy exhibition of squibs by impertinent
boys, the uncertain trembling of fire-flies in a dusky twilight? The middle ages were historically
the glory of Germany; and those who had lived to see and to feel the Confederation of the Rhine,
and the Protectorate of Napoleon, did not require the particular predilections of a Schlegel
to carry them back with eager reaction to the days of the Henries, the Othos, and the Fredericks,
when to be the German emperor was to be the greatest man in Europe, after the Pope. But to
Schlegel the middle ages were something more. The glory of Germany to the patriot, they were
the glory of Europe to the thinker. Modern wits have laughed at the enthusiasm of the Crusades.
Did they weep over the perfidy of the partition of Poland? Do they really trust themselves
to persuade a generous mind that the principle of mutual jealousy and mere selfishness, the
meagre inspiration of the so called balance of power in modern politics, is, according to any
norm of nobility in action, a more laudable motive for a public war, than a holy zeal against
those who were at once the enemies of Christ, and (as future events but too clearly showed)
the enemies of Europe? Modern wits sneer at the scholastic drivelling or the cloudy mistiness
of the writers of the middle ages. Did they ever blush for the impious baseness of Helvetius,
for the portentous scaffolding of notional skeletons in Hegel? But, alas! we talk of we know
not what. What spectacle does modern life present equal to that of St Bernard, the pious monk
of Clairvaux, the feeble, emaciated thinker, brooding, with his dove-like eyes, ("oculos columbinos,")
over the wild motions of the twelfth century, and by the calm might of divine love, guiding
the sceptre of the secular king, and the crosier of the spiritual pontiff alike? Was that a
weak or a dark age, when the strength of mind and the light of love could triumph so signally
over brute force, and that natural selfishness of public motive which has achieved its cold,
glittering triumphs in the lives of so many modern heroes and heroines--a Louis, a Frederick,
a Catharine, a Napoleon? But indeed here, as elsewhere, we see that the modern world has fallen
altogether into a practical atheism by the idolatry of mere reason; whereas all true greatness
comes not down from the head, but up from the heart of man. In which greatness of the heart,
the Bernards and the Barbarossas of the middle ages excelled; and therefore they were better
than we.

It is by no means necessary for the admirer of Schlegel to maintain that all this eulogium
of the twelfth century, or this depreciation of the times we live in, is just and well-merited.
Nothing is more cheap than to praise a pretty village perched far away amid the blue skies,
and to rail at the sharp edges and corners of things that fret against our ribs. Let it be
admitted that there is not a little of artistical decoration, and a great deal of optical illusion,
in the matter; still there is some truth, some great truth, that lay in comparative neglect
till Schlegel brought it into prominency. This is genuine literary merit; it is that sort of
discovery, so to speak, which makes criticism original. And it was not merely with the bringing
forward of new materials, but by throwing new lights on the old, that Frederick Schlegel enriched
aesthetical science. If the criticism of the nineteenth century may justly boast of a more
catholic sympathy, of a wider flight, of a more comprehensive view, and more various feast
than that which it superseded, it owes this, with something that belongs to the spirit of the
age generally, chiefly to the special captainship of Frederick Schlegel. If the grand spirit
of combination and comprehension which distinguishes the "Lectures on Ancient and Modern Literature,"
be that quality which mainly distinguishes the so called Romantic from the Classical school
of aesthetics, then let us profess ourselves Romanticists by all means immediately; for the
one seems to include the other as the genus does the species. The beauty of Frederick Schlegel
is, that his romance arches over every thing like a sky, and excludes nothing; he delights
indeed to override every thing despotically, with one dominant theological and ecclesiastical
idea, and now and then, of course, gives rather a rough jog to whatever thing may stand in
his way; but generally he seeks about with cautious, conscientious care to find room for every
thing; and for a wholesale dealer in denunciation (as in some views we cannot choose but call
him) is really the most kind, considerate, and charitable Aristarchus that ever wielded a pen.
Hear what Varnhagen Von Ense says on this point--"The inward character of this man, the fundamental
impulses of his nature, the merit or the results of his intellectual activity, have as yet
found none to describe them in such a manner as he has often succeeded in describing others.
It is not every body's business to attempt an anatomy and re-combination of this kind. One
must have courage, coolness, profound study, wide sympathies, and a free comprehensiveness,
to keep a steady footing and a clear eye in the midst of this gigantic, rolling conglomeration
of contradictions, eccentricities, and singularities of all kinds. Here every sort of demon
and devil, genius and ghost, Lucinde and Charlemagne, Alarcos, Maria, Plato, Spinoza and Bonald,
Goethe consecrated and Goethe condemned, revolution and hierarchy, reel about restlessly, come
together, and, what is the strangest thing of all, do not clash. For Schlegel, however many
Protean shapes he might assume, never cast away any thing that had ever formed a substantial
element in his intellectual existence, but found an advocatus Dei to plead always with a certain
reputable eloquence even for the most unmannerly of them; and with good reason too, for in
his all-appropriating and curiously combining soul, there did exist a living connexion between
the most apparently contradictory of his ideas. To point out this connexion, to trace the secret
thread of unity through the most distant extremes, to mark the delicate shade of transition
from one phasis of intellectual development to another, to remove, at every doubtful point,
the veil and to expose the substance, that were a problem for the sagacity of no common critic."[I]
We take the hint. It is not every Byron that finds a Goethe to take him to pieces and build
him up again, and peruse him and admire him, as Cuvier did the Mammoth. Those who feel an inward
vocation to do so by Schlegel may yet do so in Germany; if there be any in these busy times,
even there, who may have leisure to applaud such a work. To us in Britain it may suffice to
have essayed to exhibit the fruit and the final results, without attempting curiously to dissect
the growth of Schlegel's criticism.

[Footnote I: RAHEL'S Umgang. FRIEDRICH VON SCHLEGEL, vol. i. p. 325.]

The outward fates of this great critic's life may be found, like every thing else, in the famous
"Conversations Lexicon;" but as very few readers of these remarks, or students of the history
of ancient and modern literature, may be in a condition to refer to that most useful Cyclopaedia
of literary reference, we may here sketch the main lines of Schlegel's biography from the sources
supplied by Mr Robertson,[J] in the preface to his excellent translation of the "Lectures on
the philosophy of history." Whatever we take from a different source will be distinctly noted.

[Footnote J: The authorities given by Mr Robertson are, (1.) La Biographie des Vivans, Paris.
(2.) An article for July 1829, in the French Globe, apparently an abridgement of the account
of Schlegel in the Conversations Lexicon. (3.) A fuller and truer account of the author, in
a French work published several years ago at Paris, entitled "Memoirs of distinguished Converts."
(4.) Some facts in Le Catholique, a journal, edited at Paris from 1826 to 1829, by Schlegel's
friend, the Baron d'Echstein.]

The brothers Schlegel belonged to what Frederick in his lectures calls the third generation
of modern German literature. The whole period from 1750 to 1800, being divided into three generations,
the first comprehends all those whose period of greatest activity falls into the first decade,
from 1750 to 1760, and thereabout. Its chief heroes are Wieland, Klopstock, and Lessing. These
men of course were all born before the year 1730. The second generation extends from 1770 to
1790, and thereabouts, and presents a development, which stands to the first in the relation
of summer to spring--Goethe and Schiller are the two names by which it will be sent down to
posterity. Of these the one was born in 1749, and the other in 1759. Then follows that third
generation to which Schlegel himself belongs, and which is more generally known in literary
history as the era of the Romantic school--a school answering both in chronology, and in many
points of character also, to what we call the Lake school in England. Coleridge, Wordsworth,
and Southey, are contemporaries of Tieck, Novalis, and the Schlegels. Their political contemporaries
are Napoleon and Wellington. The event which gave a direction to their literary development,
no less decidedly than it did to the political history of Europe, was the French Revolution.
Accordingly, we find that all these great European characters--for so they all are more or
less--made the all-important passage from youth into manhood during the ferment of the years
that followed that ominous date, 1789. This coincidence explains the celebrity of the famous
biographical year 1769--Walter Scott was born in that year, Wellington and Napoleon, as every
body knows--and the elder Aristarchus of the Romantic school, the translator of Shakspeare,
Augustus William Von Schlegel was born in 1767. At Hanover, five years later, was born his
brother Frederick, that is to say, in May 1772, and our Coleridge in the same year--and to
carry on the parallel for another year, Ludwig Tieck, Henry Steffens, and Novalis, were all
born in 1773. These dates are curious; when taken along with the great fact of the age--the
French Revolution--they may serve to that family likeness which we have noted in characterizing
the Romanticists in Germany and the Lake school in England. When Coleridge here was dreaming
of America and Pantisocracy, Frederick Schlegel was studying Plato, and scheming republics
there.[K] In the first years of his literary career Schlegel devoted himself chiefly to classical
literature; and between 1794 and 1797 published several works on Greek and Roman poetry and
philosophy, the substance of which was afterwards concentrated into the four first lectures
on the history of literature. About this time he appears to have lived chiefly by his literary
exertions--a method of obtaining a livelihood very precarious, (as those know best who have
tried it,) and to men of a turn of mind more philosophical than popular, even in philosophical
Germany, exceedingly irksome. Schlegel felt this as deeply as poor Coleridge--"to live by literature,"
says he, in one of those letters to Rahel from which we have just quoted--"is to me je länger
je unerträglicher--the longer I try it the more intolerable." Happily, to keep him from absolute
starvation, he married the daughter of Moses Mendelsohn, the Jewish philosopher, who, it appears,
had a few pence in her pocket, but not many;[L] and between these, and the produce of his own
pen, which could move with equal facility in French as in German, he managed not merely to
keep himself and his wife alive, but to transport himself to Paris in the year 1802, and remain
there for a year or two, laying the foundation for that oriental evangel which, in 1808, he
proclaimed to his countrymen in the little book, Ueber die Sprache und Weisheit der Indier.
Meanwhile, in the year 1805, he had returned from France to his own Germany--alas, then about
to be one Germany no more! And while the sun of Austerlitz was rising brightly on the then
Emperor of France, and soon to be protector of the Rhine, the future secretary of the Archduke
Charles, and literary evangelist of Prince Metternich, was prostrating himself before the three
holy kings, and swearing fealty to the shade of Charlemagne in Catholic Cologne. There were
some men in those days base enough to impeach the purity of Schlegel's motives in the public
profession thus made of the old Romish faith. Such men wherever they are to be found now or
then, ought to be whipped out of the world. If mere worldly motives could have had any influence
on such a mind, the gates of Berlin were as open to him as the gates of Vienna. As it was,
not wishing to expatriate himself, like Winkelmann, he had nowhere to go to but Vienna; in
those days, indeed, mere patriotism and Teutonic feeling, (in which the Romantic school was
never deficient,) independently altogether of Popery, could lead him nowhere else. To Vienna,
accordingly, he went; and Vienna is not a place--whatever Napoleon, after Mack's affair, might
say of the "stupid Austrians"--where a man like Schlegel will ever be neglected. Prince Metternich
and the Archduke Charles had eyes in their head; and with the latter, therefore, we find the
great Sanscrit scholar marching to share the glory of Aspern and the honour of Wagram; while
the former afterwards decorated him with what of courtly remuneration, in the shape of titles
and pensions, it is the policy alike and the privilege of politicians to bestow on poets and
philosophers who can do them service. Nay, with some diplomatic missions and messages to Frankfurt
also, we find the Romantic philosopher entrusted and even in the great European Congress of
Vienna in 1815, he appears exhibiting himself, in no undignified position, alongside of Gentz,
Cardinal Gonsalvi, and the Prince of Benevento.[M] We are not to imagine, however, from this,
either that the comprehensive philosopher of history had any peculiar talent for practical
diplomacy, or that he is to be regarded as a thorough Austrian in politics. For the nice practical
problems of diplomacy, he was perhaps the very worst man in the world; and what Varnhagen states
in the place just referred to, that Schlegel was, what we should call in England, far too much
of a high churchman for Prince Metternich, is only too manifest from the well-known ecclesiastical
policy of the Austrian government, contrasted as it is with the ultramontane and Guelphic views
propounded by the Viennese lecturer in his philosophy of the eleventh and twelfth centuries.
Frederick Schlegel wished to see the state, with relation to the church, in the attitude that
Frederick Barbarossa assumed before Alexander III. at Venice--kneeling, and holding the stirrup.

    "An emperor tramples where an emperor knelt."

Joseph II., in his estimation, had inverted the poles of the moral world, making the state
supreme, and the church subordinate--that degrading position, which the Non-intrusionsts picture
to themselves when they talk of ERASTIANISM, and which Schlegel would have denominated simply--PROTESTANTISM.

[Footnote K: "Das republikanishe Werk erscheint gewiss nicht vor Zwei Jahren."--Letters to
Rahel--1802. Varnhagen, as above. Vol. I. p. 234.]

[Footnote L: "Das kleine Vermogen meiner Frau."--Letters to Rahel. Paris: 1803.]

[Footnote M: Das Wiener Congress in 1814-15, by VARNHAGEN VON ENSE, in the fifth volume of
his Denkwürdigkeiten, p. 51. By the way here, Mr Robertson in his list of famous Catholics
in Germany, (p. 19,) includes Gentz. Now, Varnhagen, who knew well, says that Gentz was only
politically an Austrian, and always remained Protestant in his religious opinions; which is
doubtless the fact.]

During his long residence at Vienna, from 1806 to 1828, Schlegel delivered four courses of
public lectures in the following order:--One-and-twenty lectures on Modern History,[N] delivered
in the year 1810; sixteen lectures on Ancient and Modern Literature, delivered in the spring
of 1812, fifteen lectures on the Philosophy of Life, delivered in 1827; and lastly, eighteen
lectures on the Philosophy of History, delivered in 1828. Of these, the Philosophy of life
contains the theory, as the lectures on literature and on history do the application, of Schlegel's
catholic and combining system of human intellect, and, altogether, they form a complete and
consistent body of Schlegelism. Three works more speculatively complete, and more practically
useful in their way, the production of one consistent architectural mind, are, in the history
of literature, not easily to be found.

[Footnote N: Ueber die neuere Geschichte Vorlesungen gehalten zu Wien im Jahre 1810; Wien, 1811.]

Towards the close of the year 1828, Schlegel repaired to Dresden, a city endeared to him by
the recollections of enthusiastic juvenile studies. Here he delivered nine lectures Ueber die
Philosophie der Sprache, und des Worts, on the Philosophy of Language, a work which the present
writer laments much that he has not seen; as it is manifest that the prominency given in Schlegel's
Philosophy of Life above sketched to living experience and primeval tradition, must, along
with his various accomplishments as a linguist, have eminently fitted him for developing systematically
the high significance of human speech. On Sunday the 11th January 1829, he was engaged in composing
a lecture which was to be delivered on the following Wednesday, and had just come to the significant
words--"Das ganz vollendete und voll-kommene Verstehen selbst, aber"--"The perfect and complete
understanding of things, however"--when the mortal palsy suddenly seized his hand, and before
one o'clock on the same night he had ceased to philosophize. The words with which his pen ended
its long and laborious career, are characteristic enough, both of the general imperfection
of human knowledge, and of the particular quality of Schlegel's mind. The Germans have a proverb:--"Alles
wäre gut wäre kein ABER dabei"--"every thing would be good were it not for an ABER--for a HOWEVER--for
a BUT." This is the general human vice that lies in that significant ABER. But Schlegel's part
in it is a virtue--one of his greatest virtues--a conscientious anxiety never to state a general
proposition in philosophy, without, at the same time, stating in what various ways the eternal
truth comes to be limited and modified in practice. Great, indeed, is the virtue of a Schlegelian
ABER. Had it not been for that, he would have had his place long ago among the vulgar herds
of erudite and intellectual dogmatists.

Heinrich Steffens, a well-known literary and scientific character in Germany, in his personal
memoirs recently published,[O] describes Frederick Schlegel, at Jena in 1798, as "a remarkable
man, slenderly built, but with beautiful regular features, and a very intellectual expression"--(im
höchsten Grade gisntreich.) In his manner there was something remarkably calm and cool, almost
phlegmatic. He spoke with great slowness and deliberation, but often with much point, and a
great deal of reflective wit. He was thus a thorough German in his temperament; so at least
as Englishmen and Frenchmen, of a more nimble blood, delight to picture the Rhenish Teut, not
always in the most complimentary contrast with themselves. As it is, his merit shines forth
only so much the more, that being a German of the Germans, he should by one small work, more
of a combining than of a creative character, have achieved an European reputation and popularity
with a certain sphere, that bids fair to last for a generation or two, at least, even in this
book-making age. Such an earnest devotedness of research; such a gigantic capacity of appropriation,
such a kingly faculty of comprehension, will rarely be found united in one individual. The
multifarious truths which the noble industry of such a spirit either evolved wisely or happily
disposed, will long continue to be received as a welcome legacy by our studious youth; and
as for his errors in a literary point of view, and with reference to British use, practically
considered they are the mere breadth of fantastic colouring, which, being removed, does not
destroy the drawing.

[Footnote O: Was Ich Erlebte, von HEINRICH STEFFENS. Breslau, 1840-2. Vol. iv. p. 303.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MARSTON; OR THE MEMOIRS OF A STATESMAN.

PART IV.

What that residence and Brighton have since become, is familiar to the world--the one an oriental
palace, and the other an English city. But at this time all that men saw in the surrounding
landscape was almost as it had been seen by our forefathers the Picts and Saxons. I found the
prince standing, with four or five gentlemen of distinguished appearance, under the veranda
which shaded the front of the cottage from the evening sun. The day had been one of that sultry
atmosphere in which autumn sometimes takes its leave of us, and the air from the sea was now
delightfully refreshing. The flowers, clustered in thick knots over the little lawn, were raising
their languid heads, and breathing their renewed fragrance. All was sweetness and calmness.
The sunlight, falling on the amphitheatre of hills, and touching them with diversities of colour
as it fell on their various heights and hollows, gave the whole a glittering and fantastic
aspect; while the total silence, and absence of all look of life, except an occasional curl
of smoke from some of the scattered cottages along the beach; with the magnificent expanse
of the ocean bounding all, smooth and blue as a floor of lapis-lazuli, completed the character
of a scene which might have been in fairyland.

The prince, whose politeness was undeviating to all, came forward to meet me at once, introduced
me to his circle, and entered into conversation; the topic was his beautiful little dwelling.

"You see, Mr Marston," said he, "we live here like hermits, and in not much more space. I give
myself credit for having made the discovery of this spot. I dare say, the name of Brighthelmstone
may have been in the journal of some voyager to unknown lands, but I believe I have the honour
of being the first who ever made it known in London."

I fully acknowledged the taste of his discovery.

"Why," said he, "it certainly is not the taste of Kew, whose chief prospect is the ugliest
town on the face of the earth, and whose chief zephyrs are the breath of its brew houses and
lime-kilns. Hampton Court has always reminded me of a monastery, which I should never dream
of inhabiting unless I put on the gown of a monk. St James's still looks the hospital that
it once was. Windsor is certainly a noble structure--Edward's mile of palaces--but that residence
is better tenanted than by a subject. While, here I have found a desert, it is true; but as
the poet says or sings--

'I am monarch of all I survey.'"

"Yes," I observed. "But still a desert highly picturesque, and capable of cultivation."

"Oh! I hope not," he answered laughingly. "The first appearance of cultivation would put me
to flight at once. Fortunately, cultivation is almost impossible. The soil almost totally prohibits
tillage, the sea air prohibits trees, the shore prohibits trade, nothing can live here but
a fisherman or a shrimp, and thus I am secure against the invasion of all improvers. W----,
come here, and assist me to cure Mr Marston of his skepticism on the absolute impossibility
of our ever being surrounded by London brick and mortar."

A man of a remarkably graceful air bowed to the call, and came towards us.

"W----," said the prince, "comfort me, by saying that no man can be citizenized in this corner
of the world."

"It is certainly highly improbable," was the answer. "And yet, when we know John Bull's variety
of tastes, and heroic contempt of money in indulging them, such things may be. I lately found
one of my country constituents the inhabitant of a very pretty villa--which he had built, too,
for himself--in Sicily; and of all places, in the Val di Noto, the most notorious spot in the
island, or perhaps on the earth, for all kinds of desperadoes--the very haunt of Italian smugglers,
refugee Catalonians, expert beyond all living knaves in piracy, and African renegades. Yet
there sat my honest and fat-cheeked friend, with Aetna roaring above him; declaiming on liberty
and property, as comfortably as if he could not be shot for the tenth of a sixpence, or swept
off, chattels and all, at the nod of an Algerine. No, sir. If the whim takes the Londoner,
you will have him down here without mercy. To the three per cents nothing is impossible."

"Well, well," said the good-humoured prince, "that cannot happen for another hundred years;
and in the mean time my prospect will never be shut out. Let them build, or pull down the pyramids,
if they will. The tide of city wealth will never roll through this valley; the noise of city
life will never fill those quiet fields; the smoke of an insurrection of city hovels will never
mingle with the freshness of such an evening as this. Here, at all events, I have spent half
a dozen of the pleasantest years of my existence, and here, if I should live so long, I might
spend the next fifty, notwithstanding your prophecies, W----, as far from London, except in
the mere matter of miles, as if I had fixed myself in a valley of the Crimea."

His royal highness was clever, but he was no prophet, more than other men. Need I say that
London found him out within the tenth part of his fifty years; instead of suffering him to
escape, compelled him to build: and, after the outlay of a quarter of a million, shut him up
within his own walls, like the giant of the Arabian tales in a bottle--His village a huge suburb
of the huge metropolis; his lawn surrounded by a circumvallation of taverns and toyshops; the
sea invisible; and the landscape scattered over with prettinesses of architecture created by
the wealth of Cheapside, and worthy of all the caprices of all the tourists of this much travelled
world.

But simple as was the exterior of the cottage, all within was costliness, so far as it can
be united with elegance. Later days somewhat impaired the taste of this accomplished man, and
he sought in splendour what was only to be found in grace. But here, every decoration, from
the ceiling to the floor, exhibited the simplicity of refinement. A few busts of his public
friends, a few statues of the patriots of antiquity, and a few pictures of the great political
geniuses of Europe--among which the broad forehead and powerful eye of Machiavel were conspicuous--showed
at a glance that we were under the roof of a political personage. Even the figures in chased
silver on the table were characteristic of this taste. A Timoleon, a Brutus, and a Themistocles,
incomparably classic, stood on the plateau; and a rapier which had belonged to Doria, and a
sabre which had been worn by Castruccio, hung on either side of the mantelpiece. The whole
had a republican tendency, but it was republicanism in gold and silver--mother-of-pearl republicanism--the
Whig principle embalmed in Cellini chalices and porcelain of Frederic le Grand. Fortunately
the conversation did not turn upon home politics. It wandered lightly through all the pleasanter
topics of the day; slight ventilations of public character, dexterous allusions to anecdotes
which none but the initiated could understand; and the general easy intercourse of well-bred
men who met under the roof of another well-bred man to spend a few hours as agreeably as they
could. The prince took his full share in the gaiety of the evening; and I was surprised to
find at once so remarkable a familiarity with the classics, whose sound was scarcely out of
my college ears; and with those habits of the humbler ranks, which could have so seldom come
to his personal knowledge. To his exterior, nature had been singularly favourable. His figure,
though full, still retained all the activity and grace of youth; his features, though by no
means regular, had a general look of manly beauty, and his smile was cordiality itself. I have
often since heard him praised for supreme elegance; but his manner was rather that of a man
of great natural good-humour, who yet felt his own place in society, and of that degree of
intelligence which qualified him to enjoy the wit and talents of others, without suffering
a sense of inferiority. Among those at table were C---- and H----, names well known in the
circles of Devonshire House; Sir P---- F----, who struck me at first sight by his penetrating
physiognomy, and who was even then suspected of being the author of that most brilliant of
all libels, Junius; W----, then in the flower of life, and whose subtilty and whim might be
seen in his fine forehead and volatile eyes; some others, whose names I did not know, and among
them one of low stature, but of singularly animated features. He was evidently a military man,
and of the Sister Isle, a prime favourite with the prince and every body; and I think a secretary
in the prince's household. He had just returned from Paris; and as French news was then the
universal topic, he took an ample share in the conversation. The name of La Fayette happening
to be mentioned, as then carrying every thing before him in France--

"I doubt his talents," said the prince.

"I more doubt his sincerity," said W----.

"I still more doubt whether this day three months he will have his head on his shoulders,"
said Sir P----.

"None can doubt his present popularity," said the secretary.

"At all events," said his highness, "I cannot doubt that he has wit, which in France was always
something, and now, in the general crash of pedigree, is the only thing. Any man who could
furnish the Parsans with a bon-mot a-day, would have a strong chance of succeeding to the throne
in the probable vacancy."

"A case has just occurred in point," said the secretary. "Last week La Fayette had a quarrel
with a battalion of the National Guard on the subject of drill; they considering the manual
exercise as an infringement of the Rights of Man. The general being of the contrary opinion,
a deputation of corporals, for any thing higher would have looked too aristocratic, waited
on him at the quarters of his staff in the Place Vendôme, to demand--his immediate resignation.
On further enquiry, he ascertained that all the battalions, amounting to thirty thousand men,
were precisely of the same sentiments. Next morning happened to have been appointed for a general
review of the National Guard. La Fayette appeared on the ground as commandant at the head of
his staff, and after a gallop along the line, suddenly alighted from his horse, and taking
a musket on his shoulder, to the utter astonishment of every body walked direct into the centre
of the line, and took post in the ranks. Of course all the field-officers flew up to learn
the reason. 'Gentlemen,' said he, 'I am tired of receiving orders as commander-in-chief, and
that I may give them, I have become a private, as you see.' The announcement was received with
a shout of merriment; and, as in France a pleasantry would privilege a man to set fire to a
church, the general was cheered on all sides, was remounted and the citizen army, suspending
the 'Rights of Man' for the day, proceeded to march and manoeuvre according to the drill framed
by despots and kings."

"Well done, La Fayette," said the prince, "I did not think that there was so much in him. To
be sure, to have one's neck in danger--for the next step to deposing would probably be to hang
him--might sharpen a man's wits a good deal."

"Yes," said Sir P----, "so many live by their wits in Paris, that even the marquis of the mob
might have his chance; but a bon-mot actually saved, within these few days, one even so obnoxious
as a bishop from being sus. per coll. In the general system of purifying the church by hanging
the priests, the rabble of the Palais Royal seized the Bishop of Autun, and were proceeding
to treat him 'à la lanterne' as an aristocrat. It must be owned that the lamps in Paris, swinging
by ropes across the streets, offer really a very striking suggestion for giving a final lesson
in politics. It was night, and the lamp was trimmed. They were already letting it down for
the bishop to be its successor; when he observed, with the coolness of a spectator--'Gentlemen,
if I am to take the place of that lamp, it does not strike me that the street will be better
lighted.' The whimsicality of the idea caught them at once; a bishop for a reverbère was a
new idea; they roared with laughter at the conception, and bid him go home for a 'bon enfant!'"

"I cannot equal the La Fayette story," said C----, "but I remember one not unlike it, when
the Duke of Rutland was Irish viceroy. Charlemont was reviewing a brigade of his volunteers
when he found a sudden stop in one of the movements, a troop of cavalry on a flank: choosing
to exhibit a will of their own in an extraordinary way. If the brigade advanced, they halted;
if it halted, they advanced. The captain bawled in vain. Aide-de-camp after aide-de-camp was
sent to enquire the cause; they all came back roaring with laughter. At length Charlemont,
rather irritated by the ridicule of the display, rode down the line and desired the captain
to order them to move; not a man stirred; they were as immovable as a wall of brass. He then
took the affair upon himself; and angrily asked, 'if they meant to insult him.' 'Not a bit
of it, my lord,' cried out all the Paddies together. 'But we are not on speaking terms with
the captain.'"

"How perfectly I can see Charlemont's countenance at that capital answer: his fastidious look
turning into a laugh, and the real dignity of the man forced to give way to his national sense
of ridicule. Is there any hope of his coming over this season, C----?" asked the prince.

"Not much. He talks in his letters of England, as a man married to a termagant might talk of
his first love--hopeless regrets, inevitable destiny, and so forth. He is bound to Ireland,
and she treats him as Catharine treated Petruchio before marriage. But he has not the whip
of Petruchio, nor perhaps the will, since the knot has been tied. He is only one of the many
elegant and accomplished Irishmen who have done just the same--who find some strange spell
in the confusions of a country full of calamities; prefer clouds to sunshine, and complain
of their choice all their lives."

"Yes," said W----. "It is like the attempt to put a coat and trousers on the American Indian.
The hero flings them off on the first opportunity, takes to his plumes and painted skin, and
prefers being tomahawked in a swamp to dying in a feather-bed like a gentleman!"

"Or," said the prince, "as Goldsmith so charmingly expresses it of the Swiss--to whom, however,
it is much less applicable than his own countrymen--

    'For as the babe, whom rising storms molest,
    Clings but the closer to his mother's breast,
    So the rude whirlwind and the tempest's roar
    But bind him to his native mountains more.'"

My story next came upon the tapis; and the sketch of my capture by the free-traders was listened
to with polite interest.

"Very possibly I may have some irregular neighbours," was the prince's remark. "But, it must
be confessed, that I am the intruder on their domain, not they on mine; and, if I were plundered,
perhaps I should have not much more right to complain, than a whale-catcher has of being swamped
by a blow of the tail, or a man fond of law being forced to pay a bill of costs."

"On the contrary," said the secretary, "I give them no slight credit for their forbearance;
for the sacking of this cottage would, probably, be an easier exploit than beating off a revenue
cruiser, and the value of their prize would be worth many a successful run. I make it a point
never to go to war with the multitude. I had a little lesson on the subject myself, within
the week, in Paris"--

An attendant here brought in a letter for the prince, which stopped the narrative. The prince
honoured the letter with a smile.

"It is from Devonshire House," said he--"a very charming woman the Duchess; just enough of
the woman to reconcile us to the wit, and just enough of the wit to give poignancy to the woman.
She laughingly says she is growing 'heartless, harmless, and old.' What a pity that so fine
a creature should grow any of the three!"

"There is no great fear of that," observed Sir P----, "if it is to be left to her Grace's own
decision. There is no question in the world on which a fine woman is more deliberate in coming
to a conclusion."

"Well, well," said the prince; "she, at least, is privileged. Diamonds never grow old."

"They may require a little resetting now and then, however," said I.

"Yes, perhaps; but it is only once in a hundred years. If they sparkle during one generation,
what can we ask more? Her Grace tells me an excellent hit--the last flash of my old friend
Selwyn. It happens that Lady ----"--another fine woman was mentioned--"has looked rather distantly
upon her former associates since her husband was created a marquis. 'I enquired the other day,'
says the duchess, 'for a particular friend of hers, the wife of an earl.' 'I have not seen
her for a long time,' was the answer. Selwyn whispered at the moment, I dare say, long enough--she
has not seen her since the creation.'"

"If Selwyn," said Sir P----, "had not made such a trade of wit; if he had not been such a palpable
machine for grinding every thing into bons-mots; if his distillation of the dross of common
talk into the spirit of pleasantry were less tardy and less palpable; I should have allowed
him to be"--

"What?" asked some one from the end of the table.

"Less a bore than he was," was the succinct answer.

"For my part," said the prince, "I think that old George was amusing to the last. He had great
observation of oddity, and, you will admit, that he had no slight opportunities; for he was
a member of, I believe, every club for five miles round St James's. But he was slow. Wit should
be like a pistol-shot; a flash and a hit, and both best when they come closest together. Still,
he was a fragment of an age gone by, and I prize him as I should a piece of pottery from Herculaneum;
its use past away, but its colours not extinguished, and, though altogether valueless at the
time, curious as the beau reste of a pipkin of antiquity."

"Sheridan," observed C----, "amounts, in my idea, to a perfect wit, at once keen and polished;
nothing of either violence or virulence--nothing of the sabre or the saw; his weapon is the
stiletto, fine as a needle, yet it strikes home."

"Apropos," said the prince, "does any one know whether there is to be a debate this evening?
He was to have dined here. What can have happened to him?"

"What always happens to him," said one of the party; "he has postponed it. Ask Sheridan for
Monday at seven, and you will have him next week on Tuesday at eight. 'Procrastination is the
thief of time,' to him more than, I suppose, any other man living."

"At all events," said H----, "it is the only thief that Sheridan has to fear. His present condition
defies all the skill of larceny. He is completely in the position of Horace's traveller--he
might sing in a forest of felons."

At this moment the sound of a post-chaise was heard rushing up the avenue, and Sheridan soon
made his appearance. He was received by the prince with evident gladness, and by all the table
with congratulations on his having arrived at all. He was abundant in apologies; among the
rest "his carriage had broken down halfway--he had been compelled to spend the morning with
Charles Fox--he had been subpoenaed on the trial of one of the Scottish conspirators--he had
been summoned on a committee of a contested election." The prince smiled sceptically enough
at this succession of causes to produce the single effect of being an hour behind-hand.

"The prince bows at every new excuse," said H---- at my side, "as Boileau took off his hat
at every plagiarism in his friend's comedy--on the score of old acquaintance. If one word of
all this is true, it may be the breaking down of his post-chaise, and even that he probably
broke down for the sake of the excuse. Sheridan could not walk from the door to the dinner-table
without a stratagem."

I had now, for the first time, an opportunity of seeing this remarkable man. He was then in
the prime of life, his fame, and of his powers. His countenance struck me at a glance, as the
most characteristic that I had ever seen. Fancy may do much, but I thought that I could discover
in his physiognomy every quality for which he was distinguished: the pleasantry of the man
of the world, the keen observation of the great dramatist, and the vividness and daring of
the first-rate orator. His features were fine, but their combination was so powerfully intellectual,
that, at the moment when he turned his face to you, you felt that you were looking on a man
of the highest order of faculties. None of the leading men of his day had a physiognomy so
palpably mental. Burke's spectacled eyes told but little; Fox, with the grand outlines of a
Greek sage, had no mobility of feature; Pitt was evidently no favourite of whatever goddess
presides over beauty at our birth. But Sheridan's countenance was the actual mirror of one
of the most glowing, versatile, and vivid minds in the world. His eyes alone would have given
expression to a face of clay. I never saw in human head orbs so large, of so intense a black,
and of such sparkling lustre. His manners, too, were then admirable; easy without negligence,
and respectful, as the guest at a royal table, without a shadow of servility. He also was wholly
free from that affectation of epigram, which tempts a man who cannot help knowing that his
good things are recorded. He laughed, and listened, and rambled through the common topics of
the day, with all the evidence of one enjoying the moment, and glad to contribute to its enjoyment;
and yet, in all this ease, I could see that remoter thoughts, from time to time, passed through
his mind. In the midst of our gaiety, the contraction of his deep and noble brows showed that
he was wandering far away from the slight topics of the table; and I could imagine what he
might be, when struggling against the gigantic strength of Pitt, or thundering against Indian
tyranny before the Peerage in Westminster Hall.

I saw him long afterwards, when the promise of his day was overcast; when the flashes of his
genius were like guns of distress; and his character, talents, and frame were alike sinking.
But, ruined as he was, and humiliated by folly as much as by misfortune, I have never been
able to regard Sheridan but as a fallen star--a star, too, of the first magnitude; without
a superior in the whole galaxy from which he fell, and with an original brilliancy perhaps
more lustrous than them all.

"Well, Sheridan, what news have you brought with you?" asked the prince.

The answer was a laugh. "Nothing, but that Downing Street has turned into Parnassus. The astounding
fact is, that Grenville has teemed, and, as the fruits of the long vacation, has produced a
Latin epigram.

  'Veris risit Amor roses caducas:
   Cui Ver--"Vane puer, tuine flores,
   Quaeso, perpetuum manent in aevum?'"

The prince laughed. "He writes on the principle, of course, that in one's dotage we are privileged
to return to the triflings of our infancy, and that Downing Street cannot be better employed
in these days than as a chapel of ease to Eton."

"Yet, even there, he is but a translator," said Sir P----.

"'The tenth transmitter of an idler's line,'

It is merely a rechauffé of the old Italian.

  'Amor volea schernir la primavera
   Sulla breve durata e passegiera
   Dei vaghi fiori suoi.
   Ma la belle stagione a lui rispose
   Forse i piacere tuoi
   Vita piu lunga avran delle mie rose.'"

The prince, who, under Cyril Jackson, had acquired no trivial scholarship, now alluded to a
singular poetic production, printed in 1618, which seemed distinctly to announce the French
Revolution.

'Festinat propere cursu jam temporis ordo, Quo locus, et Franci majestas prisca, senatus, Papa,
sacerdotes, missae, simulacra, Deique Fictitii, atque omnis superos exosa potestas, Judicio
Domini justo sublata peribunt.[A]

[Footnote A:

    The time is rushing on
    When France shall be undone;
    And like a dream shall pass,
    Pope, monarch, priest, and mass;
    And vengeance shall be just,
    And all her shrines be dust,
    And thunder dig the grave
    Of sovereign and of slave.]

"The production is certainly curious," remarked W----; "but poets always had something of the
fortune-teller; and it is striking, that in many of the modern Italian Latinists you will find
more instances of strong declamation against Rome, and against France as its chief supporter,
than perhaps in any other authorship of Europe. Audacity was the result of terror. All Italy
reminds one of the papal palace at Avignon--the banqueting-rooms above, the dungeons of the
Inquisition below; popes and princes feasting within sound of the rack and the scourge. The
Revolution is but the ripening of the disease; the hydrophobia which has been lurking in the
system for centuries."

"Why, then," said Sheridan, "shall we all wonder at what all expected? France may be running
mad without waiting for the moon; mad in broad day; absolutely stripping off, not merely the
royal livery, which she wore for the last five hundred years with so much the look of a well-bred
footman; but tearing away the last coverture of the national nakedness. Well; in a week or
two of this process, she will have got rid not only of church and king, but of laws, property,
and personal freedom. But, I ask, what business have we to interfere? If she is madder than
the maddest of March hares, she is only the less dangerous; she will probably dash out her
brains against the first wall that she cannot spring over."

"But, at least, we know that mischief is already done among ourselves. Those French affairs
are dividing our strength in the House," remarked C----.

"What then?" quickly demanded Sheridan. "What is it to me if others have the nightmare, while
I feel my eyes open? Burke, in his dreams, may dread the example of France; but I as little
dread it as I should a fire at the Pole. He thinks that Englishmen have such a passion for
foreign importations, that if the pestilence were raging on the other side of the Channel,
we should send for specimens. My proposition is, that the example of France is more likely
to make slaves of us than republicans."

"Is it," asked W----, "to make us

    'Fly from minor tyrants to the throne?'"

"I laugh at the whole," replied Sheridan, "as a bugbear. I have no fear of France as either
a schoolmaster, or a seducer, of England. France is lunatic, and who dreads a lunatic after
his first paroxysm? Exhaustion, disgust, decay, perhaps death, are the natural results. If
there is any peril to us, it is only from our meddling. The lunatic never revenges himself
but on his keeper. I should leave the patient to the native doctors, or to those best of all
doctors for mad nations, suffering, shame, and time. Chain, taunt, or torment the lunatic,
and he rewards you by knocking out your brains."

"Those are not exactly the opinions of our friend Charles," observed the prince with peculiar
emphasis.

"No," was the reply. "I think for myself. Some would take the madman by the hand, and treat
him as if in possession of his senses. Burke would gather all the dignitaries of Church and
State, and treat him as a demoniac; attempt to exorcise the evil spirit, and if it continued
intractable, solemnly excommunicate the possessed by bell, book, and candle. But, as I do not
like throwing away my trouble, I should let him alone."

"The doctrine of confiscation is startling to all property," remarked the prince. "I wish Charles
would remember, that his strength lies in the aristocracy."

"No man knows it better," observed W----. "But I strongly doubt whether his consciousness of
his own extraordinary talents is not at this moment tempting him to try a new source of hazard.
The people, nay, the populace, are a new element to him, and to all. I can conceive a man of
pre-eminent ability, as much delighted with difficulty as inferior men are delighted with ease.
Fox has managed the aristocracy so long, and has bridled them with so much the hand of a master,
that what he might have once considered as an achievement, he now regards as child's play.
If Alexander's taming Bucephalus was a triumph for a noble boy, I scarcely think that, after
passing the Granicus, he would have been proud of his fame as a horse-breaker. Fox sees, as
all men see, that great changes, for either good or ill, are coming on the world. Next to that
of a great king, perhaps the most tempting rank to ambition would be that of a great demagogue."

The glitter of Sheridan's eye, and the glow which passed across his cheek, as he looked at
the speaker, showed how fully he agreed with the sentiment; and I expected some bold burst
of eloquence. But, with that sudden change of tone and temper which was among the most curious
characteristics of the man, he laughingly said, "At all events, whatever the Revolution may
do to our neighbours, it will do a vast deal of good to ourselves. The clubs were growing so
dull, that I began to think of withdrawing my name from them all. Their principal supporters
were daily yawning themselves to death. The wiser part were flying into the country, where,
at least, their yawning would not be visible; and the rest remained enveloped in dry and dreary
newspapers, like the herbs of a 'Hortus siccus.' White's was an hospital of the deaf and dumb;
and Brookes's strongly resembled Westminster Hall in the long vacation. It was in the midst
of this general doze that the news from Paris came. I assure you the effects were miraculous--the
universal spasm of lock-jaw was no more. Men no longer regarded each other with a despairing
glance in St James's Street, and passed on. All was sudden sociability. Even in the city people
grew communicative, and puns were committed that would have struck their forefathers with amazement.
As Burke said, in one of his sybilline speeches the other night: 'The tempest had come, at
once bending down the summits of the forest and stirring up the depths of the pool.' One of
the aldermen, on being told that the French were preparing to pass the Waal, said, that if
the Dutch would take his advice, and if iron spikes were not enough, they should glass their wall."

The newspapers now arrived, and France for a while engrossed the conversation. The famous Mirabeau
had just made an oration with which all France was ringing.

"That man's character," said the prince, after reading some vehement portions of his speech,
"perplexes me more and more. An aristocrat by birth, he is a democrat by passion; but he has
palpably come into the world too early, or too late, for power. Under Louis XIV., he would
have made a magnificent minister; under his successor, a splendid courtier; but under the present
unfortunate king, he must be either the brawler or the buffoon, the incendiary, or the sport,
of the people. Yet he is evidently a man of singular ability, and if he knows how to manage
his popularity, he may yet do great things."

"I always," said Sheridan, "am inclined to predict well of the man who takes advantage of his
time. That is the true faculty for public life; the true test of commanding capacity. There
are thousands who have ability, for one who knows how to make use of it; as we are told that
there are monsters in the depths of the ocean which never come up to the light. But I prefer
your leviathan, which, whether he slumbers in the calm or rushes through the storm, shows all
his magnitude to the eye."

"And gets himself harpooned for his pains," observed W----.

"Well, then, at least he dies the death of a hero," was the reply--"tempesting the brine, and
perhaps even sinking the harpooner." He uttered this sentiment with such sudden ardour, that
all listened while he declaimed--"I can imagine no worse fate for a man of true talent than
to linger down into the grave; to find the world disappearing from him while he remains in
it; his political vision growing indistinct, his political ear losing the voice of man, his
passions growing stagnant, all his sensibilities palpably paralyzing, while the world is as
loud, busy, and brilliant round him as ever--with but one sense remaining, the unhappy consciousness
that, though not yet dead, he is buried; a figure, if not of scorn, of pity, entombed under
the compassionate gaze of mankind, and forgotten before he has mouldered. Who that could die
in the vigour of his life, would wish to drag on existence like Somers, coming to the Council
day after day without comprehending a word? or Marlborough, babbling out his own imbecility?
If I am to die, let me die in hot blood, let me die like the lion biting the spear that has
entered his heart, or springing upon the hunter who has struck him--not like the crushed snake,
miserable and mutilated, hiding itself in its hole, and torpid before it is turned into clay!"

"Will Mirabeau redeem France?" asked the prince; "or will he overwhelm the throne?"

"I never heard of any one but Saint Christopher," said Sheridan, sportively, "who could walk
through the ocean, and yet keep his head above water. Mirabeau is out of soundings already."

"Burke," said F----, "predicts that he must perish; that the Revolution will go on, increasing
in terrors; and that it would be as easy to stop a planet launched through space, as the progress
of France to ruin."

"So be it," said Sheridan with sudden animation. "There have been revolutions in every age
of the world, but the world has outlived them all. Like tempests, they may wreck a royal fleet
now and then, but they prevent the ocean from being a pond, and the air from being a pestilence.
I am content if the world is the better for all this, though France may be the worse. I am
a political optimist, in spite of Voltaire; or, I agree with a better man and a greater poet--'All's
well that ends well.'"

The prince looked grave; and significantly asked, "Whether too high a present price might not
be paid for prospective good?"

Sheridan turned off the question with a smile. "The man who has as little to pay as I have,"
said he, "seldom thinks of price one way or the other. Possibly, if I were his Grace of Bedford,
or my Lord Fitzwilliam, I might begin to balance my rent-roll against my raptures. Or, if I
were higher still, I might be only more prudent. But," said he, with a bow, "if what was fit
for Parmenio was not fit for Alexander, neither would what was fit for Alexander be fit for
Parmenio."

The prince soon after rose from table, and led the way into the library, where we spent some
time in looking over an exquisite collection of drawings of Greece and Albania, a present from
the French king to his royal highness. The windows were thrown open, and the fresh scents of
the flower garden were delicious; the night was calm, and the moon gleamed far over the quiet
ocean.

At this moment a soft sound of music arose at a distance. I looked in vain for the musicians--none
were visible. The strain, incomparably managed, now approached, now receded, now seemed to
ascend from the sea, now to stoop from the sky. All crowded to the casement--to me, a stranger
and unexpecting, all was surprise and spell. I, almost unconsciously, repeated the fine lines
in the Tempest:--

  "Where should this music be? I' the air, or the earth?
  No, it begins again."

The prince returned my quotation with a gracious smile, and the words of the great poet,

"This is no mortal business, nor no sound This the earth owns."

The private band, stationed in one of the thickets, had been the magicians. Supper was laid
in this handsome apartment, not precisely

  "The spare Sabine feast,
  A radish and an egg,"

but perfectly simple, and perfectly elegant. The service was Sevre, and I observed on it the
arms of the Duke of Orleans, combined with those of the Prince. It had been a present from
the most luxurious, and most unfortunate, man on earth. And thus closed my first day in the
exclusive world.

On the next evening, I had exchanged fresh breezes and bright skies for the sullen atmosphere
and perpetual smoke of the great city; stars for lamps, and the gentle murmurs of the tide,
for the turbid rush and heavy roar of the million of London. During the day, I had been abandoned
sufficiently to my own meditations. For though we did not leave Brighton till noon, Marianne
remained steadily, and I feared angrily, invisible. Mordecai, during the journey, consulted
nothing but his tablets, and was evidently plunged in some huge financial speculation; and
when he dropped me at a hotel in St James's, and hurried towards his den in the depths of the
city, like a bat to its cave, I felt as solitary as if I had dropped from the moon.

But an English hotel is a cure for most of the sorrows of English life. The well-served table--the
excellent sherry--a blazing fire, not at all unrequired in the first sharp evenings of our
autumn--and the newspaper "just come in," are capital "medicines for the mind diseased." And
like old Maréchal Louvois, who recommended roast pigeons as a cure for grief--observing that,
"whenever he heard of the loss of any of his friends, he ordered a pair, and found himself
always much comforted after eating them"--I was beginning to sink into that easy oblivion of
the rules of life, which, without actual sleep, has all the placid enjoyment of slumber; when
a voice pronounced my name, and I was startled and half suffocated by the embrace of a figure
who rushed from an opposite box, and in a torrent of French poured out a torrent of raptures
on my arriving in London.

When I contrived at last to disengage myself, I saw Lafontaine; but so hollow-cheeked and pale-visaged,
that I could scarcely recognize my showy friend in the skeleton knight who stood gesticulating
his ultra-happiness before me.

At length he drew, with a trembling touch and a glistening eye, from his bosom a letter, which
he placed in my hand with a squeeze of eternal friendship. "Read," said he, "read, and then
wonder, if you can, at my misery and my gratitude." The letter was from Mariamne, and certainly
a very pretty one--gay and tender at once; gracefully alluding to some little fretfulness on
her part, or his, I could scarcely tell which; but assuring him that all this was at an end--that
she foreswore the world henceforth, and was quite his own. All this was expressed with an elegance
which I was not quite prepared to find in the fair one, and with a tone of sincerity for which
I was still less prepared; yet with the coquette in every line.

I should have been glad to see him at any time, but now I received him as a resource from solitude,
or rather from those restless thoughts which made solitude so painful to me. Another bottle,
perhaps, made me more sensitive, and him more willing to communicate; and before it was finished,
he had opened his whole heart and emptied his letter-case, and I had consulted him on the improbabilities
of my ever being able to succeed in the object which had so strangely, yet so totally, occupied
all my feelings.

It was clear, from her correspondence, that his pretty Jewess had played him much as the angler
plays the trout which he has secured on his hook. She evidently enjoyed the display of her
skill in tormenting: every second letter was almost a declaration of breaking off the correspondence
altogether; or, what was even worse, mingled with those menaces, there were from time to time
allusions to my opinions, and quotations of my chance remarks, which, rather to my surprise,
showed me that the proverb, "Les absens ont toujours tort," was true in more senses than one,
and that the Frenchman occasionally lost ground by being fifty miles off. Once or twice it
seemed to me that the little "betrothed" was evidently thinking of the error of precipitate
vows, and was beginning to change her mind. But her last letter was a complete extinguisher
of all my vanity, if it had ever been awakened. It was a curious mingling of poignancy and
penitence; an acknowledgment of the pain which she felt in ever having given pain, and almost
an entreaty that he would hasten his affairs in London, and return to Brighton, to "guard her
against herself, once and for ever."

All this was quite as it should be; but the envelope contained an enormous postscript, of which
I happened to be the theme. It was evidently written in another mood of mind; and except that
passion is blind, and even refuses to see, when it might, I should probably have had another
rencontre with the best swordsman in the Chevaux Legers. After speaking of me and my prospects
in life, with an interest which reached at least to the full amount of friendship, the subject
of my reveries came on the tapis. "My father and Mr Marston are on the point of going to town,"
said the postscript; "the latter to dream of Mademoiselle De Tourville, without the smallest
hope of ever obtaining her hand. But I scarcely know what to think of him and his feelings--if
feelings they can be called--which change like the fashions of the day, and at the mercy of
all the triflers of the day; or like the butterfly fluttering round the garden, as if merely
to show that it can flutter. This habit must make him for ever incapable of the generous devotedness
of heart and truth of affection which I so much value in my 'friend.'" But here Lafontaine
interfered, obviously through fear of my plunging into some discovery of my own demerits, which
had not struck him on his first perusal; and I surrendered the letter, postscript and all,
having first ascertained by a glance, that the former was dated at the very hour of the discovery
of my unlucky stanzas to Clotilde, and the latter probably after the "fair penitent" had time
to reflect on the matter, and let compassion make its way. Woman is a brilliant problem--but
a problem after all.

A sudden trampling of cavalry and loud rush of carriages prevented my attempting the solution--at
least for that sitting. All the guests crowded to the door. "His Majesty was going to Drury-Lane!"
It was a performance "by command." The never-failing pulse in the foreign heart was touched.
Lafontaine crushed his correspondence into his bosom, sprang on his feet, wiped his eyes of
all their sorrows, and proposed that we should see the display. I was rejoiced to escape a
topic too delicate for my handling. A carriage was called, and by a double fee we contrived,
through many a hazard, in the narrowest and most dangerous defiles of any Christian city, to
reach the stately entrance, just as the troopers were brushing away the mob from the steps,
and the trumpets were outringing the cries of the orangewomen.

By another bribe we contrived to make our way into a box, whose doors were more unrelenting
than brass or marble to the crowd in the lobby, less acquainted with the mode of getting through
the English world; and I had my first view of national loyalty, in the handsomest theatre which
I have ever seen. How often it has been burnt down and built since, is beyond my calculation.
It was then perfection.

We had galloped to some purpose; for we had distanced the monarch and his eight carriages.
The royal party had not yet entered the house; and I enjoyed, for a few minutes, one of the
most striking displays that the opulence and animation of a great country can possibly produce--the
coup-d'oeil of a well-dressed audience in a fine and spacious theatre. Multitudes spread over
hill and dale may be picturesque; the aspect of great public meetings may be startling, stern,
or powerfully impressive; the British House of Lords, on the opening of the session, exhibits
a majestic spectacle; but for a concentration of all the effects of art, beauty, and magnificence,
I have yet seen nothing like one of the English theatres in their better days. To compare it
in point of importance with any other great assemblage, would in general be idle. But at this
time, even the assemblage before me, collected as it was for indulgence, had a character of
remarkable interest. The times were anxious. The nation was avowedly on the eve of a struggle
of which no human foresight could discover the termination. The presence of the king was the
presence of the monarchy; the presence of the assemblage was the presence of the nation. The
house was only a levee on a large scale, and the crowd, composed as it was of the most distinguished
individuals of the country--the ministers, the peerage, the heads of legislature--and the whole
completed by an immense mass of the middle order, gave a strong and admirable representation
of the power and feelings of the empire.

At length the sound of the trumpets was heard, the door of the royal box was thrown open, and
"God save the King" began. Noble as this noblest of national songs is, it had, at that period,
a higher meaning. It is impossible to describe the spirit and ardour in which it was received;
nay, the almost sacred enthusiasm in which it was joined by all, and in which every sentiment
was followed with boundless acclamation. It was more than an honourable and pleased welcome
of a popular king. It was a national pledge to the throne--a proud declaration of public principle--a
triumphant defiance of the enemy and the Earth to strike the stability of a British throne,
or subdue the hearts of a British people.

The king advanced to the front of the box, and bowed in return to the general plaudits. It
was the first time that I had seen George the Third, and I was struck at once with the stateliness
of his figure and the kindliness of his countenance. Combined, they perfectly realized all
that I had conceived of a monarch, to whose steadiness of determination, and sincerity of good-will,
the empire had been already indebted in periods of faction and foreign hostility; and to whom
it was to be indebted still more in coming periods of still wilder faction, and of hostility
which brought the world in arms against his crown.

As I glanced around for a moment, to see the effect on the house, which was then thundering
with applause, I observed a slight confusion, like a personal quarrel, in the pit; and in the
next instant saw a hand raised above the crowd, and a pistol fired full in the direction of
the royal box. The King started back a pace or two, and the general apprehension that he had
been struck, produced a loud cry of horror. He evidently understood the public feeling, and
instantly came forward, and by a bow, with his hand on his heart, at once assured them of his
gratitude and his safety. This was acknowledged by a shout of universal congratulation; and
many a bright eye, and many a manly one, too, streamed with tears. In the midst of all, the
Queen and the royal family rushed into the box, flung themselves round the king, and all was
embracing, fainting, and terror. Cries for the seizure of the assassin now resounded on every
side. He was grasped by a hundred hands, and torn out of the house. Then the universal voice
demanded "God save the King" once more: the performers came forward and the national chant,
now almost elevated to a hymn, was sung by the audience with a solemnity scarcely less than
an act of devotion. All the powers of the stage never furnished a more touching, perhaps a
more sublime scene, than the simple reality of the whole occurrence before my eyes.

But at length the tumult sank; the order of the theatre was resumed; and the curtain rose,
displaying a remarkably fine view of Roman architecture, a vista of temples and palaces, the
opening scene of Coriolanus.

The fame of the admirable actor who played the leading character was then at its height; and
John Kemble shared with his splendid sister the honour of being the twin leaders of the theatrical
galaxy. I am not about to dwell on Shakspeare's conception of the magnificent republican, nor
on the scarcely less magnificent representative which it found in the actor of the night. But
I speak to a generation which have never seen either Siddons or Kemble, and will probably never
see their equals. I may be suffered, too, to indulge my own admiration of forms and faculties
which once gave me a higher sense of the beauty and the powers of which our being is capable.
Is this a dream? or, if so, is it not a dream that tends to ennoble the spirit of man? The
dimness and dulness of the passing world require relief, and I look for it in the world of
recollections.

Kemble was, at that time, in the prime of his powers; his features strongly resembling those
of Siddons; and his form the perfection of manly grace and heroic beauty. His voice was his
failing part; for it was hollow and interrupted; yet its tone was naturally sweet, and it could,
at times, swell to the highest storm of passion. In later days he seemed to take a strange
pride in feebleness, and, in his voice and his person, affected old age. But when I saw him
first, he was all force, one of the handsomest of human beings, and, beyond all comparison,
the most accomplished classic actor that ever realized the form and feelings of the classic
age. His manners in private life completed his public charm; and, in seeing Kemble on the stage,
we saw the grace and refinement acquired by the companionship of princes and nobles, the accomplished,
the high-born, and the high-bred of the land.

From the mingled tenderness and loftiness of Kemble's playing, a new idea of Coriolanus struck
me. I had hitherto imagined him simply a bold patrician, aristocratically contemptuous of the
multitude, indignant at public ingratitude, and taking a ruthless revenge. But the performance
of the great actor on this night opened another and a finer view to me. Till now, I had seen
the hero, a Roman, merely a gallant chieftain of the most unromantic of all commonwealths,
the land of inflexibility, remorseless daring, and fierce devotement to public duty. But, by
throwing the softer feelings of the character into light, Kemble made him less a Roman than
a Greek--a loftier and purer Alcibiades, or a republican Alexander, or, most and truest of
all, a Roman Achilles--the same dazzling valour, the same sudden affections, the same deep
conviction of wrong, and the same generous, but unyielding, sense of superiority. Say what
we will of the subordination of the actor to the author, the great actor shares his laurels.
He, too, is a creator.

