John's advertisement was speedily attended to. The little fellow who had lost the shoe made
no delay in setting about redeeming it. The first free day he got that he might come out in
the daylight, he came as a respectable merchant, knocked at John Wilde's door, and asked if
John had not got a glass shoe to sell:

"For," says he, "they are an article now in great demand, and are sought for in every market."

John replied that it was true that he had a very pretty little glass shoe; but it was so small
that even a dwarf's foot would be squeezed in it, and that a person must be made on purpose
to suit it before it could be of use. For all that, it was an extraordinary shoe, a valuable
shoe, and a dear shoe, and it was not every merchant that could afford to pay for it.

The merchant asked to see it, and when he had examined it--

"Glass shoes," said he, "are not by any means such rare articles, my good friend, as you think
here in Rodenkirchen, because you do not happen to go much into the world. However," said he,
after humming a little, "I will give you a good price for it, because I happen to have the
very fellow of it."

He bid the countryman a thousand dollars for it.

"A thousand dollars are money, my father used to say when he drove fat oxen to market," replied
John Wilde, in a mocking tone; "but it will not leave my hands for that shabby price, and,
for my own part, it may ornament the foot of my daughter's doll! Hark ye, my friend, I have
heard a sort of little song sung about the glass shoe, and it is not for a parcel of dirt it
will go out of my hands. Tell me now, my good fellow, should you happen to know the knack of
it, how in every furrow I make when I am ploughing I may find a ducat? If not, the shoe is
still mine; and you may inquire for glass shoes at those other markets."

The merchant made still a great many attempts, and twisted and turned in every direction to
get the shoe; but when he found the farmer inflexible, he agreed to what John desired, and
swore to the performance of it. Cunning John believed him, and gave him up the glass shoe,
for he knew right well with whom he had to do. So, the business being ended, away went the
merchant with his glass shoe.

Without a moment's delay John repaired to his stable, got ready his horses and his plough,
and went out to the field. He selected a piece of ground where he would have the shortest turns
possible, and began to plough. Hardly had the plough turned up the first sod when up sprang
a ducat out of the ground, and it was the same with every fresh furrow he made. There was now
no end of his ploughing, and John Wilde soon bought eight new horses, and put them into the
stable to the eight he already had, and their mangers were never without plenty of oats in
them, that he might be able every two hours to yoke two fresh horses, and so be enabled to
drive them the faster.

John was now insatiable in ploughing. Every morning he was out before sunrise, and many a time
he ploughed on till after midnight. Summer and winter it was plough, plough with him ever-more,
except when the ground was frozen as hard as a stone. He always ploughed by himself, and never
suffered any one to go out with him, or to come to him when he was at work, for John understood
too well the nature of his crop to let people see for what it was he ploughed so constantly.

However, it fared far worse with him than with his horses, who ate good oats, and were regularly
changed and relieved, for he grew pale and meagre by reason of his continual working and toiling.
His wife and children had no longer any comfort for him. He never went to the ale-house or
to the club. He withdrew himself from every one, and scarcely ever spoke a single word, but
went about silent and wrapped up in his own thoughts. All the day long he toiled for his ducats,
and at night he had to count them, and to plan and meditate how he might find out a still swifter
kind of plough.

His wife and the neighbours lamented over his strange conduct, his dulness and melancholy,
and began to think he was grown foolish. Everybody pitied his wife and children, for they imagined
the numerous horses that he kept in his stable, and the preposterous mode of agriculture he
pursued, with his unnecessary and superfluous ploughing, must soon leave him without house or land.

Their anticipations, however, were not fulfilled. True it is, the poor man never enjoyed a
happy or contented hour since he began to plough the ducats up out of the ground. The old saying
held good in his case, that he who gives himself up to the pursuit of gold is half-way in the
claws of the evil one. Flesh and blood cannot bear perpetual labour, and John Wilde did not
long hold out against his running through the furrows day and night. He got through the first
spring; but one day in the second he dropped down at the tail of the plough like an exhausted
November fly. Out of the pure thirst for gold he was wasted away and dried up to nothing, whereas
he had been a very strong and hearty man the day the shoe of the little underground man fell
into his hands.

His wife, however, found he had left a great treasure--two great nailed-up chests full of good
new ducats; and his sons purchased large estates for themselves, and became lords and noblemen.

But what good did all that to poor John Wilde?

HOW LOKI WAGERED HIS HEAD.

Loki, the son of Laufey, out of mischief cut off all the hair of Sif. When Thor discovered
this he seized Loki, and would have broken every bone in his body, only he swore that he would
get the black dwarfs to make hair of gold for Sif, which should grow like any other hair.

Loki then went to the dwarfs that are called the sons of Ivallda. They first made the hair,
which, as soon as it was put on the head, grew like natural hair. Then they made the ship Skidbladnir,
which always had the wind with it wherever it would sail. Lastly, they made the spear Gugner,
which always hit its mark in battle.

Then Loki wagered his head against the dwarf Brock, that his brother, Eitri, could not forge
three such valuable things as these. They went to the forge. Eitri set the bellows to the fire,
and bid his brother, Brock, blow. While he was blowing there came a fly that settled on his
hand and bit him, but he blew without stopping till the smith took the work out of the fire,
and it was a boar, and its bristles were of gold.

Eitri then put gold into the fire, and bid his brother not stop blowing till he came back.
He went away, and the fly came and settled on Brock's neck, and bit him more severely than
before, but he blew on till the smith came back, and took out of the fire the gold ring which
is called Draupnir.

Then he put iron into the fire, and bid Brock blow, and said that if he stopped blowing all
the work would be lost. The fly settled between Brock's eyes, and bit so hard that the blood
ran down so that he could not see. So, when the bellows were down, he caught at the fly in
all haste, and tore off its wings. When the smith came he said that all that was in the fire
was nearly spoiled. Then he took out of it the hammer, Mjolnir. He then gave all the things
to his brother Brock, and bade him go with them to Asgard, and settle the wager.

Loki produced his articles, and Odin, Thor, and Frey were the judges. Then Loki gave to Odin
the spear Gugner, and to Thor the hair that Sif was to have, and to Frey Skidbladnir, and told
them what virtues those things possessed. Brock took out his articles, and gave to Odin the
ring, and told him that every ninth night there would drop from it eight other rings as valuable
as itself. To Frey he gave the boar, and said that it would run through air and water, by night
and by day, better than any horse, and that never was there night so dark that the way by which
he went would not be light from his hide. The hammer he gave to Thor, and said that it would
never fail to hit a troll, and that at whatever he threw it, it would never miss the mark,
and that Thor could never throw it so far that it would not return to his hand. It would also,
when Thor chose, become so small that he could put it in his pocket. The only fault of the
hammer was that its handle was a little too short.

Their judgment was that the hammer was the best of all the things before them, and that the
dwarf had won his wager. Then Loki prayed hard not to lose his head, but the dwarf said that
could not be.

"Catch me, then!" said Loki, and when the dwarf sought to catch him he was far away, for Loki
had shoes with which he could run through air and water. Then the dwarf prayed Thor to catch
him, and he did so. The dwarf now proceeded to cut off his head, but Loki objected that he
was to have the head only, and not the neck. As he would not be quiet, the dwarf took a knife
and a thong, and began to sew his mouth up; but the knife was bad, so the dwarf wished that
he had his brother's awl, and as soon as he wished it, it was there. So he sewed Loki's lips
together.

THE ADVENTURES OF JOHN DIETRICH. Klas abounded in these, and he became John Dietrich's dearest
friend. In particular, he knew a number of stories of the Nine-hills, and the underground people
in the old times, when the giants disappeared from the country and the little ones came into
the hills. The person whose cap he got would be his servant, and obey all his commands.

St. John's day, when the days were longest and the nights shortest, was now come. The moment
he felt it he caught hold of it, and, standing up, bid farewell to sleep. That's not the sort
of thing one gives away for buttered cake.

So he gave up, especially as the others told him there was no remedy.

John now flung away his old hat, and put on the cap, and set it firm on his head lest it should
slip off or fly away, for all his power lay in the cap. Whoever wanted to go in stepped upon
this. It opened, and he glided gently in, the grass closing again after him; and when they
had all entered it vanished, and there was no further trace of it to be seen. Several tuns
of this kind went up and down after each other, until all were in. They hung by long silver
chains, which were drawn and hung without.

In his descent John was amazed at the brilliancy of the walls between which the tun glided
down. These were differently clad. The birds now struck up a most lively air, and the little
people danced their rounds most merrily. Every afternoon while he remained there he used to
dance thus merrily with them, and, to the last hour of his life, he used to speak of it with
the greatest glee. His language was--that the joys of heaven and the songs and music of the
angels, which the righteous hope to enjoy there, might be excessively beautiful, but that he
could conceive nothing to surpass the music and the dancing under the earth, the beautiful
and lively little men, the wonderful birds in the branches, and the tinkling silver bells in
their caps.

"No one," said he, "who has not seen and heard it, can form any idea whatever of it."

When the music and dancing were over it might be about four o'clock. The little people then
disappeared, and went each about his own business or pleasure. After supper they sported and
danced in the same way, and at midnight, especially on star-light nights, they slipped out
of their hills to dance in the open air. John used then to say his prayers, a duty he never
neglected either in the evening or in the morning, and go to sleep. After the first week, however,
he began to walk about, making his servant show and explain everything to him. Whence all this
came no one knew, nor could John's servant tell anything about it, but one thing John saw plainly,
which was, that the large carbuncles and diamonds that were set in the roof and walls gave
light instead of the sun, moon, and stars.

These lovely meads and plains were, for the most part, all lonesome.

Of all of them there was none of whom he was so fond as of a fair-haired girl named Elizabeth
Krabbe.

"Therefore," said he, "for the last time, think for a minute, and if you then say 'No,' you
shall feel that pain which is to you and your children the most terrible of all pains."

When the sun rose, John arranged the procession, and they set out for Rambin.

HOW THORSTON BECAME RICH.

When spring came Thorston made ready his ship and put twenty-four men on board of her. When
they came to Finland they ran her into a harbour, and every day he went on shore to amuse himself.

He came one day to an open part of the wood, where he saw a great rock, and a little way out
from it was a horribly ugly dwarf. He was looking over his head, with his mouth wide open,
and it appeared to Thorston that it stretched from ear to ear, and that the lower jaw came
down to his knees.

Thorston asked him why he acted so foolishly.

"Do not be surprised, my good lad," answered the dwarf, "do you not see that great dragon that
is flying up there? He has taken off my son, and I believe that it is Odin himself that has
sent the monster to do it. I shall burst and die if I lose my son."

Then Thorston shot at the dragon, and hit him under one of the wings, so that he fell dead
to the earth; but Thorston caught the dwarf's child in the air, and brought him to his father.

The dwarf was very glad, more rejoiced than any one can tell, and he said--

"I have to reward you for a great service, you who are the deliverer of my son. Now choose
your reward in silver or gold."

"Take your son," said Thorston; "but I am not used to accept rewards for my services."

"It would not be becoming," said the dwarf, "if I did not reward you. I will give you my vest
of sheep's wool. Do not think it is a contemptible gift, for you will never be tired when swimming,
or wounded, if you wear it next your skin."

Thorston took it and put it on, and it fitted him well, though it had appeared too small for
the dwarf.

The dwarf next took a gold ring out of his purse and gave it to Thorston, and bade him take
good care of it, telling him he should never want money while he had the ring.

Next he gave him a black stone, and said--

"If you hide this stone in the palm of your hand no one will see you. I have not many more
things to offer you, or that would be of any value to you. I will, however, give you a firestone
for your amusement."

He took the stone out of his purse, and with it a steel point. The stone was triangular, white
on one side and red on the other, and a yellow border ran round it. The dwarf said--

"If you prick the stone with the point in the white side there will come on such a hailstorm
that no one will be able to look at it. If you want to stop the shower you have only to prick
on the yellow part, and there will come so much sunshine that the hail will melt away. If you
prick the red side then there will come out of it such fire, with sparks and crackling, that
no one will be able to look at it. You may also get whatever you will by means of this point
and stone, and they will come of themselves back to your hand when you call them. I can give
you no more of such gifts."

Thorston then thanked the dwarf for his presents, and returned to his men; and it was better
for him to have made that voyage than to have stayed at home.

GUDBRAND.

There was once upon a time a man who was called Gudbrand. He had a farm which lay far away
on a hill, and he was therefore known as Gudbrand of the Hillside. He and his wife lived so
happily together, and were so well matched, that do what the man would his wife was well pleased,
thinking nothing in the world could be better. Whatever he did she was satisfied. The farm
was their own, and they had a hundred dollars which lay in a box, and in the stall they had
two cows.

One day the woman said to Gudbrand.

"I think it would be well to take one of the cows to town and sell it, and so we shall have
some money at hand. We are such fine folk that we ought to have a little ready money, as other
people have. As for the hundred dollars which lie in the chest, we must not make a hole in
them, but I do not see why we should keep more than one cow. We shall, too, gain something,
for I shall then have only to look after one cow, instead of having to litter and feed two."

This Gudbrand thought was right and reasonable, so he took the cow, and set off to town to
sell it. When he arrived there he could find no one who would buy the beast.

"Well, well," said he, "I can go home again with the cow. I have stall and litter for her,
and the road home is no longer than the road here."

So he began to go homewards again.

When he had gone a little distance he met a man who had a horse he wanted to sell. So Gudbrand
thought it was better to have a horse than a cow, and exchanged with him. So he exchanged with
the man. He went on a bit further, and met a man with a goat. A goat, he thought, was better
than a pig. So he exchanged with him. He went on a good bit further till he met a man who had
a sheep, and he exchanged with him, for he thought a sheep was always better than a goat. He
went on again, and met a man with a goose. So he exchanged the sheep for the goose. Then he
went a long, long way, and met a man with a cock. So he gave the goose for the cock, for he
thought to himself--

"It is better to have a cock than a goose."

He walked on till late in the day, and then as he was getting hungry he sold the cock for twelve
shillings, and bought something to eat, for, thought Gudbrand of the Hillside--

"It is better to save one's life than have a cock."

Then he walked on homeward till he came to the house of his nearest neighbour, and there he
looked in.

"Well, how did you get on at the town?" asked the neighbour.

"Only so and so," said the man. "I cannot say I have had good or bad luck," and then he began
and told them all that had happened.

"Well," said the neighbour, "you will catch it when you get home to your wife. Heaven help
you! I would not stand in your shoes."

"I think things might have been much worse," said Gudbrand of the Hillside; "but whether things
have gone well or badly, I have such a gentle wife that she never says anything, do what I will."

"Ah," said the neighbour, "I hear what you say, but I don't believe it."

"Shall we make a bet?" said Gudbrand. "I have a hundred dollars lying at home in a chest, will
you lay as much?"

The neighbour was willing, so the bet was made. They waited till evening, and then set out
for Gudbrand's house. The neighbour stood outside the door, while Gudbrand went inside to his wife.

"Good evening," said Gudbrand, when he was inside.

"Good evening," said his wife. "Heaven be praised. Is it you?"

Yes, it was he. His wife then asked him how things went at the town.

"Oh, but so-so," said Gudbrand, "not much to boast of. When I came to the town I could find
no one to buy the cow, so I exchanged it for a horse."

"Thanks for that!" said the wife; "we are such fine folk that we can ride to church the same
as other people, and as we can keep a horse we might as well have one. Go and put the horse
up, children."

"But," said Gudbrand, "I have not got the horse. After I had gone a bit further I exchanged
it for a pig."

