4. We have only to repeat about war what we said of self-defence, that all the killing that
takes place in it is incidental, or indirect. The cannon that you see in Woolwich Arsenal,
the powder and torpedoes, have for their end what St. Thomas (De Potentia, q. 7, art. 2, ad
10) declares to be the end and object of the soldier, "to upset the foe," to put him hors de
combat. This is accomplished in such rough and ready fashion, as the business admits of; by
means attended with incidental results of extremest horror. But no sooner has the bayonet thrust
or the bullet laid the soldier low, and converted him into a non-combatant, than the ambulance
men are forward to see that he shall not die. If indeed even in the dust he continues to be
aggressive, like the wounded Arabs at Tel-el-Kebir, he must be quieted and repressed a second
time. Probably he will not escape with life from a second repression: still, speaking with
philosophic precision, we must say that "to quiet, not to kill him," is, or should be, the
precise and formal object of the will of his slayer in war. St. Thomas indeed (2a 2a, q. 64,
art. 7, in corp.) seems to allow the soldier fighting against the enemy to mean to kill his
man. But by enemy in this passage we should probably understand rebel. The soldier spoken of
is the instrument of the feudal lord bringing back to duty his rebellious vassal. In the Middle
Ages, till the end of the fifteenth century, the notion of independent nations scarcely found
place.

In war, as all cases of self-defence, the killing is indirect. In capital punishment, on the
other hand, the killing is direct: it being chosen as a deterrent means, that the offender
be "hanged by the neck" till he is "dead, dead, dead." This disposes of the error, that capital
punishment is an act of self-defence on the part of the State against evildoers. We may observe
finally that by the right of the sword, and by that alone, not in self-defence, not in war,
but by the hand of public justice raised against a guilty subject, can human life ever be taken
directly.

Reading.--St. Thos., 2a 2a, q. 40, art. 1.

SECTION X.--Of the Scope and Aim of Civil Government.

1. I beseech the pious reader not to be shocked and scandalised by the conclusions of this
section. He will find them in the end a valuable support to theology. The most religious mind
can have no difficulty in allowing that cookery, as such, is a business of this world only:
that you retain your cook, not to save your soul, but to prepare palatable and wholesome nourishment
for your body; that honesty, sobriety, and good temper are officially requisite qualifications,
simply inasmuch as the contrary vices would be the plague of your kitchen and the spoiling
of your dinner. In a Catholic house the soup on a Friday is made without meat. That restriction
is observed, not as a point of culinary art, but because, whereas eternal salvation is the
main end of life, and cookery a subordinate end, the latter must be so prosecuted as not to
interfere with the former. She who uses ingredients forbidden by the Church, is the worse Christian,
but she may be the better cook. Now, to compare a great thing with a little, the State equally
with the kitchen is a creation of this world,--there are no nationalities, nor kitchen-ranges
either, beyond the grave. Civil government is a secular concern. The scope and aim intrinsic
to it, and attainable by its own proper forces, is a certain temporal good. Suarez (De Legibus,
III., xi., 7) sets forth that good to be,--"the natural happiness of the perfect human community,
whereof the civil legislature has the care, and the happiness of individuals as they are members
of such of a community, that they may live therein peaceably and justly, and with a sufficiency
of goods for the preservation and comfort of their bodily life, and with so much moral rectitude
as is necessary for this external peace and happiness of the commonwealth and the continued
preservation of human nature."

2. The intrinsic scope and aim of civil government is the good of the citizens as citizens.
That, we have to show, is not any good of the world to come; nor again the full measure of
good requisite for individual well-being in this world. The good of the citizens as such is
that which they enjoy in common in their social and political capacity: namely, security, wealth,
liberty, commerce, the arts of life, arms, glory, empire, sanitation, and the like, all which
goods, of their own nature, reach not beyond this world. True, a certain measure of moral rectitude
also is maintained in common, but only "so much as is necessary for the external peace and
happiness of the commonwealth," not that rectitude of the whole man which is required in view
of the world to come. (Ethics, c. x., n. 4 [3], p. 182.) The intrinsic aim of the State, then,
falls short of the next life. Neither does it cover the entire good of the individual even
for this life. The good of the State, and of each citizen as a citizen, which it is the purpose
of civil government to procure, is a mere grand outline, within which every man has to fill
in for himself the little square of his own personal perfection and happiness. Happiness, as
we have seen, lies essentially in inward acts. The conditions of these acts, outward tranquillity
and order, are the statesman's care: the acts themselves must be elicited by each individual
from his own heart. Happiness also depends greatly on domestic life, the details of which,
at least when they stop short of wife-beating, come not within the cognisance of the civil
power. It remains, as we have said, that the scope and aim of the State, within its own sphere
and the compass of its own powers, is the temporal prosperity of the body politic, and the
prosperity of its members as they are its members and citizens, but not absolutely as they
are men. We cannot repeat too often the saying of St. Thomas: "Man is not ordained to the political
commonwealth to the full extent of all that he is and has." (1a 2a, q. 21, art. 4, ad 3.)

3. From this view it appears that the end for which the State exists is indeed an important
and necessary good, but it is not all in all to man, not his perfect and final happiness. To
guide man to that is the office of the Christian Church in the present order of Providence.
Cook and statesman must so go about the proper ends of their several offices, as not to stand
in the way of the Church, compassing as she does that supreme end to which all other ends are
subordinate. This limitation they are bound to observe, not as cook and statesman, but as men
and Christians. A perfectly Christian State, as Christian, has a twofold duty. First, it has
a positive duty, at the request of the Church, to follow up ecclesiastical laws with corresponding
civil enactments, e.g., laws against criminous clerks and excommunicates. On this spiritual
ground, being beyond its jurisdiction, the State must be careful not to forestall but to second
the precept of spiritual authority. It is no business of the State, as such, to punish a purely
religious offence. The second duty of a Christian State, and a more urgent duty even than the
former, is the negative one of making no civil enactment to the prejudice of the Church: e.g.,
not to subject clerics to the law of conscription. Useful as their arms might be for the defence
of the country, the State must forego that utility for the sake of a higher end.

4. In the order of pure nature, which is the order of philosophy, there is of course no Church.
Still there would be, as we have seen (c. i., s. i., n. 8, p. 197), erected on the same lines
as the civil power, and working side by side with it, a religious power competent to prescribe
and conduct divine worship. This power the State would be bound to abet and support, both positively
and negatively; something in the same manner, but not to the same degree, as the Christian
State is bound to abet the Church. The supreme direction of the natural religious power would
conveniently be vested in the person of the Civil Ruler. Thus the Roman Emperor was also Chief
Pontiff.

5. How in the mere natural, as distinguished from the Christian order, the provinces of marriage
and education should be divided between the civil and the religious power, is perhaps not a
very profitable enquiry. The only use of it is a polemic use in arguing with men of no Christianity.
Among all men of any religion, marriage has ever been regarded as one of those occasions of
life that bring man into special relation with God, and therefore into some dependence on God's
ministers. Education, again, has a religious element, to be superintended by the religious
power. Education has a secular element also, the general superintendence of which cannot be
denied to the State. Though children are facts of the domestic order, and the care and formation
of them belongs primarily to their parents, yet if the parents neglect their charge, the State
can claim the right of intervention ab abusu. It certainly is within the province of the State
to prevent any parent from launching upon the world a brood of young barbarians, ready to disturb
the peace of civil society. The practical issue is, who are barbarians and what is understood
by peace. The Emperor Decius probably considered every Christian child an enemy of the Pax
Romana. But the misapplication of a maxim does not derogate from its truth. It also belongs
to the State to see that no parent behaves like a Cyclops ([Greek: kyklopikos], Ar., Eth.,
X., ix., 13) in his family, ordering his children, not to their good, as a father is bound
to do, but to his own tyrannical caprice. For instruction, as distinguished from education,
it is the parent's duty to provide his child with so much of it as is necessary, in the state
of society wherein his lot is cast, to enable the child to make his way in the world according
to the condition of his father. In many walks of life one might as well be short of a finger
as not know how to read and write. Where ignorance is such a disadvantage, the parent is not
allowed to let his child grow up ignorant. There, if he neglects to have him taught, the State
may step in with compulsory schooling. Compulsory schooling for all indiscriminately, and that
up to a high standard, is quite another matter.

Readings.--Suarez, De Legibus, III., xi.; ib., IV., ii., nn. 3, 4: St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 93,
art. 3, ad 3; ib., q. 96, art. 2; ib., q. 98, art. 1, in corp.;ib., q. 99, art. 3, in corp.;
ib., q. 100, art. 2, in corp.

SECTION XI.--Of Law and Liberty.

1. The student of Natural Law does not share the vulgar prejudice against civil law and lawyers.
He knows it for a precept of the Natural Law, that there should be a State set up, and that
this State should proceed to positive legislation. This legislation partly coincides with Natural
Law in urging the practice of that limited measure of morality, which is necessary for the
State to do its office and to be at all. (s. x., n. 2, p. 355.) This partial enforcement of
the Law of Nature is the main work of the criminal law of the State. But State legislation
goes beyond the Natural Law, and in the nature of things must go beyond it. Natural Law leaves
a thousand conflicting rights undetermined, which in the interest of society, to save quarrels,
must be determined one way or another.

2. An illustration. It is an axiom of Natural Law, that res perit domino; that is, the owner
bears the loss. If an article under sale perishes before delivery, the loss falls, apart from
contracts to the contrary, upon whichever of the two parties is the owner at the time. So far
nature rules. But who is the owner at any given time, and at what stage of the transaction
does the dominion pass? That can only be settled by custom and the law of the land. "If I order
a pipe of port from a wine-merchant abroad; at what period the property passes from the merchant
to me; whether upon delivery of the wine at the merchant's warehouse; upon its being put on
shipboard at Oporto; upon the arrival of the ship in England at its destined port; or not till
the wine be committed to my servants, or deposited in my cellar; all are questions which admit
of no decision but what custom points out." (Paley, Mor. Phil., bk. iii., p. i, c. vii.)

This leads us to remark upon the much admired sentence of Tacitus, in corruptissima republica
plurimae leges, that not merely the multitude of transgressions, but the very complexity of
a highly developed civilization, requires to be kept in order by a vast body of positive law.

3. Incidentally we may also remark, that the law of the State does not create the right of
property; otherwise, abolishing its own creation, the State could bring in Communism, (c. vii.,
s. i., p. 278). But finding this right of property unprotected and undetermined, the State
by its criminal law protects property against robbers, and by its civil as distinguished from
criminal law, it defines numerous open questions between possessors as to manner of acquirement
and conditions of tenure.

4. All civil laws bind the conscience: some by way of a categorical imperative, Do this: others
by way of a disjunctive, Do this, or being caught acting otherwise, submit to the penalty.
The latter are called purely penal laws, an expression, by the way, which has no reference
to the days of religious persecution. Civil law binds the conscience categorically whenever
the civil ruler so intends. In the absence of express declaration, it must be presumed that
he so intends whenever his law is an enforcement of the Natural Law, or a determination of
the same; as when the observance is necessary to the preservation of the State, or when the
ruler determines what lapse of time shall be necessary for the acquisition of property by prescription.
Very frequently, the parties to a contract tacitly accept the dispositions of the civil law
as forming part of their agreement; and in this indirect fashion the civil law becomes binding
on the conscience. In this way an Englishman who accepts a bill of exchange tacitly binds himself
to pay interest at five per cent., if the bill is not met at maturity, for such is the disposition
of the English Law. It may be further observed that no prudent legislator would attach a severe
penalty to what was not already wrong.

5. In Roman times it was part of the flattery of the imperial jurists to their master, to tell
him that he was above the laws, legibus solutus. In the trial of Louis XVI., the Sovereign
People, or they who called themselves such, dispensed with certain legal formalities on that
same plea. Against the law at Athens, the generals who had fought at Arginusae were condemned
by one collective sentence, the anger of the Sovereign People being too impatient to vote on
them separately, as the law required. Hereupon we must observe in the first place, that the
Supreme Ruler, whether one man or a multitude, can never be brought to trial in his own court
for any legal offence. As all justice requires two terms: no power can do justice on itself.
(Ethics, c. v., s. ix., n. 1, p. 102.) This truth is embodied in the English maxim, that the
king can do no wrong. Again, the Sovereign is either expressly or virtually exempted from the
compass of many laws, e.g. those which concern the flying of certain flags or ensigns, and
other petty matters. Thirdly, we have the principle, that no being can give a law to himself.
(Ethics, c. vi. s. ii., n. 3, p. 117.) Lastly, we must observe that there is no law so fundamental
but what the Supreme Power, taken in its entirety, can alter it, and by consequence dispense
from it. From these considerations it follows that the Sovereign--the complete and absolute
Sovereign, be he one man or many--lies under no legal obligation to obey any law of his own
making as such. It does not follow that he is perfectly free to ignore the laws. He is bound
in conscience and before God to make his government effectual; and effectual it cannot be,
if the laws are despised; and despised they will be, if the Sovereign gives scandal by ignoring
them in his own practice. Therefore the Sovereign, be he King, Council, or Assembly, is bound
in conscience and before God, though not legally of his own jurisdiction, so far himself to
stand to the observance of the law as not to render it nugatory in the eyes and practice of others.

6. Law and liberty are like the strings and meshes of a net. In the one limit of minimum of
mesh, the net passes into sack-cloth, where nothing could get through. In the other limit of
maximum of mesh, the net vanishes, and everything would get through. We cannot praise in the
abstract either a large mesh or a small one: the right size is according to the purpose for
which the net is to be used in each particular case. So neither can law nor liberty be praised,
as Burke says, "on a simple view of the subject, as it stands stripped of every relation, in
all the nakedness and solitude of metaphysical abstraction." We can only praise either as it
is "clothed in circumstances." Commonly we are led to praise the one by getting too much of
the other. Confounded in a tangle of fussy, vexatious, perhaps malicious restrictions, men
cry loudly for liberty. When people all about us are doing things by their own sweet will,
we are converted to praise of regulation and discipline and the wholesome restraint of law.

Readings.--St. Thos., 1a 2a, q. 96, art. 5, ad 3; Suarez, De Legibus, III., xxxv.; ib., V.,
iv.; Ruskin, Seven Lamps of Architecture, c. vii., SS I, 2.

SECTION XII.--Of Liberty of Opinion.

1. We are here dealing with liberty only so far as it means exemption from State control. So
far as the State is concerned, a man has the fullest liberty to hold in his heart the most
seditious opinions, and to think the foulest thoughts, so long as they do not appear in his
public language and conduct. The heart is free from all mere human law, resting in subjection
to His law alone, and in responsibility to His judgment, who is the Searcher of Hearts.

2. We are dealing then not properly with opinion, but with the public expression of opinion.
We are dealing with that expression as controllable by the State, not acting in deference to
the invitation of any religious power, but of its own initiative and proper authority, in view
of its own end, scope and aim, which is social order and public prosperity for this life. (s.
x., nn. 2, 3, p. 355.)

3. That there are doctrines dangerous to social order, cannot be denied, unless we are to cease
to believe in any influence of thought upon conduct. It is important to the State, that men
should have the greatest possible horror of crime. (s. viii., nn. 3, 6, pp. 345, 348.) This
horror is notably impaired when all idea of sin is taken away. Now the idea of sin vanishes
with that of God. (Ethics, c, vi., s. ii., nn. 6, 7, 13, pp. 119, 123.) Therefore to pull down
the idea of God among a nation of theists, whether by the wiles of a courtly Professor at a
University, or by the tub-thumping blasphemy of an itinerant lecturer, is to injure the State.
The tub-thumper however is the more easily reached by the civil authority, especially when
his discourses raise a tumult among the people. But where attacks upon theism have become common,
and unbelief is already rampant among the masses, for the State to interfere with either "leader
of thought," high or low, would be a shutting of the stable-door after the steed was stolen.
Similarly we should speak of those who subvert the received notions touching the sanctity of
the marriage-tie and the law of external purity generally, the obligation of civil allegiance,
the rights of property and of life.

4. It will be objected: "The doctrines that you wish to express as inimical to the peace of
the commonwealth, possibly may be true. Did not the first heralds of Christianity trouble the
peace of the Roman world?" We reply: Let the new teachers come to us as those apostolic men
came, "in weakness and in fear and in much trembling," and yet withal "in the showing of the
spirit and power," with an "exhortation not of uncleanness," nor upon "an occasion of covetousness,"
"holily and justly and without blame" (1 Cor. ii. 3, 4; 1 Thess. ii. 3, 5, 10); and we will
receive them as angels of God, even to the plucking out of our own eyes, if need be, and giving
to them. (Gal. iv. 15.) Any hostile reception that they may meet with at first from a misapplication
of our principle, will soon be made up for by welcome and veneration. There is no principle
that may not be momentarily misapplied in all good faith. But the mistake in this case will
readily be rectified.

5. But, writes J. S. Mill, On Liberty, "we can never be sure that the opinion we are endeavouring
to stifle is a false opinion." If we cannot, then is there no such thing as certainty upon
any point of morals, politics, or religion. Assassination of tyrants, whether in public or
private life, may be wickedness, or it may be a laudable outburst of public spirit, who knows?
Which of us is sure that all property is not theft? Plato's views on marriage and infanticide
may be correct: the Nihilist may be your true politician; and all our religious knowledge dwindles
down to the confession of Protagoras: "Concerning Gods, I find no clear evidence whether they
are or are not, or what manner of beings they are." These are the sceptical tremors which this
denial induces. But even scepticism has its proof, which Mill furnishes as follows: "All silencing
of discussion is an assumption of infallibility." The very name infallibility has an effect
upon the modern Englishman like that of Popery upon his forefathers. It shakes his nerves,
obscures his judgment, and scares his seated reason to leap up from her throne. But after we
have recovered from our fright, we recollect that, whereas infallibility is an all-round attribute,
compassing an entire subject, certainty goes out to one particular point on the circumference;
we may then be certain without being infallible. Extremely fallible as I am in geography, I
am nevertheless certain that Tunis is in Africa. Silencing discussion is an assumption, not
of infallibility, but of certainty. The man who never dares assume that he is certain of anything,
so certain as to close his ears to all further discussion, comes nothing short of a universal
sceptic.

6. We are told, free discussion promotes discovery. Yes, free discussion in philosophical circles,
free discussion among competent persons. But free discussion of a subject among the incompetent
and the incapable, and the passionate and the prejudiced, is not good for the cause of truth;
and if the subject be practical and momentous, it is not good for the disputants either, nor
for the community. If we allow that the science and practice of morality is not advanced by
free debate of ethical questions in nurseries and boarding-schools, we must also bear in mind
that a vast proportion of the human family remain all their lives long, for the purpose of
such discussions, as incompetent as children. The multitude cannot be philosophers. They have
neither time, nor intelligence, nor love of hard thinking sufficient to arrive at the final
and adequate why and wherefore of their every duty. Though capable of doing right, they are
quite incapable of doing so philosophically. They do it according as they are led by custom
and authority. Their inheritance is the traditionary wisdom of mankind, which they live upon
as an infant on his estate, not understanding whence their support comes. It is dangerous to
batter them with objections against the received moral law. You will overthrow them, not confirm
them by the result of your reasonings: you will perplex their intellect, you will confound
their good purpose, you will awaken their evil passions. Surely it is a more necessary point
to secure that right be done somehow, than that it be philosophically done. The one is difficult
enough, the other quite impossible for the mass of mankind. Therefore, adapting to our purpose
the old Greek oracle: "let us not disturb the foundations of popular morality: they are better
undisturbed"--

  [Greek: Mae kinei Kamarinan akinaetos gar ameinoon]

7. But is it not immoral to interfere with conscience, and to attempt to stifle sincere convictions?
The State, we repeat, has nothing to do with conscience as such, nor with the inward convictions
of any man. But if the State is sincerely convinced, that the convictions openly professed
and propagated by some of its subjects are subversive of social order and public morality,
whose sincere conviction is it that must carry the day in practice? It is of the essence of
government that the convictions, sincere or otherwise, of the governed shall on certain practical
issues be waived in the external observance in favour of the convictions of the ruling power.
After all, this talk of conscience and sincere convictions is but the canting phrase of the
day, according to which conscience means mere wild humour and headstrong self-will. Such teachings
as those which we would have the State to suppress, e.g.: An oath is a folly: There is no law
of purity: There is no harm in doing anything that does not annoy your neighbour: are not the
teachings of men sincerely convinced: they deserve no respect, consideration, or tenderness
on that score. We do not say, that the teachers of these monstrosities are not convinced, but
that they are not honestly and conscientiously convinced: they have blinded themselves, and
become the guilty authors of their own delusion. Not all strong convictions are honestly come
by or virtuously entertained.

8. Arraigned for their utterances, men protest their sincerity, as parties indicted for murder
do their innocence. We can set but small store by such protestations. It is a question of evidence
to come from other sources than from the accused person's own mouth. A man indeed must be held
to be sincere until he is proved to be the contrary. That is the general rule. But there are
what Roman lawyers call prasumptiones juris; circumstances which, if proved, will induce the
court to take a certain view of a case, and give judgment accordingly, unless by further evidence
that view is proved to be a false one. Now when a man proclaims some blatant and atrocious
error in a matter bearing directly upon public morals--and it is for the restraint of these
errors alone that we are arguing--there is a decided prasumptio juris, that the error in him,
however doggedly he maintains it, is not a sincere, candid, and innocently formed conviction.
The light of nature is not so feeble as that, among civilized men. Let the offender be admonished
and given time to think: but if, for all warning to the contrary, the wilful man will have
his way, and still propagate his error to the confusion of society, he must be treated like
any other virtuous and well-meaning criminal: he must be restrained and coerced to the extent
that the interests of society require.

