 Not a wisp of straw had we to lie on, for it was so rainy we could not gather any.

On the evening of the fourth of December, we received marching orders, and at about 8 o'clock,
we were very glad to get away from this forsaken place, which we did in a hurry. We arrived
in Brooklyn about 12 o'clock that night and I assure you it was no easy matter to find a place
to stay till morning. It was a long cold December night. The men got places wherever they could
find them. I and several other comrades stayed with a Doctor Green. We were up early in the
morning and the doctor wanted us all to stay and have breakfast with him, an invitation which
we accepted with thanks. I wrote a letter to my mother while there.

On the morning of the fifth of December we embarked on the steamer Empire City with the Twenty-sixth
Connecticut Regiment. The men of the Twenty-sixth were in the hold of the vessel while the
Twenty-fifth men took a deck passage which we didn't appreciate especially at this season of
the year, December 6th. We left the Atlantic Dock, Brooklyn, at six o'clock that morning. We
hadn't been out long before the water became quite rough and the steamer plunged and rolled
dreadfully which made the soldiers very sea-sick.

December 7th was dark and boisterous and the good old ship creaked and swayed on the mighty
deep. By the way, I hadn't been sea-sick since we left the Atlantic dock, but I could not help
laughing, the first day we were out, to see the guards of the vessel from stem to stern lined
up with anxious sea-gazers, their knees knocking together, their countenances ashen and a very
intimate connection evidently existing between the stomach and the mouth. Even my risibiles
were aroused though myself not entirely insensible to the attractions of Neptune.

December 8th. It was Sunday and when daylight came it brought with it a calmer sea and a more
jolly set of soldiers, although the water was several inches deep on deck. That day was spent,
as all others, without any religious exercises so we had nothing to do but watch the porpoises,
of which there had been a great many in sight all day.

We had been out of sight of land since the previous day at noon. Well, we had found out where
our expedition was going. It was going to sea. One thing was certain, we were going pretty
far south.

December 9th. The weather had become quite fine. The boys had, most of them, gotten over being
sea-sick. As the Twenty-sixth boys began to feel as though they had rather be on deck than
down in that dirty hole, we were in pretty close quarters, for I think there were as many as
twelve hundred men on this old unseaworthy ship which had been used as a transport in the California
trade for a great many years. So I was told by Harlan Skinner, who went out as Sutler's clerk
of the Twenty-fifth Regiment. (He was a brother of Town Clerk Francis B. Skinner of Rockville
and went to California on board of her in 1849.)

December 10th. We were still out of sight of land. Some of us might be imagined reading the
Bible or some other interesting book and others were lying asleep on deck, while the rest were
watching and wondering where we were going to land, I suppose.

December 11th. It was much warmer, and very pleasant. We were still out of sight of land. Spying
an English vessel, we ran up the Stars and Stripes and they ran up their flag to let us know
that all was right. Some of the boys sang out, just for a little fun, that the old Rebel gunboat
Alabama was in sight.

December 12th we came in sight of the coast of Florida. We had seen the trees and the snow
white beach about all day. We also saw several lighthouses. The porpoises and flying fish attracted
a great deal of attention and when a school came in sight, all eyes were turned upon them.

December 13th. It has been very pleasant and there has been a smooth sea, consequently we have
had a very pleasant day's sail, with a cool breeze. We have been out of sight of land all day,
and we long to be on shore once more. As we are so dove-tailed in, when we try to lie down
at night, we get very little sleep.

December 14th, Sunday. We were now in the Gulf of Mexico and there had not been a living thing
in sight all day. We had a sermon preached on deck. The text was, "Thou shall not take the
name of the Lord, thy God, in vain."

December 15th. We arrived at Ship Island at noon and found about the most God forsaken, miserable
hole, man ever got into. The sand was ankle deep everywhere. And such a lot of Negroes; shiftless,
lazy dogs, black as the ace of spades and twice as natural. But the little "nigs" kill me outright,
they looking so much like a lot of monkeys, I know of nothing so comical. I could sit half
the morning watching them and hearing them jabber.

December 16th. We arrived at the mouth of the Mississippi River. A pilot came aboard and took
us over the bar in the river in compliance with the rules of navigation. We had a very pleasant
day's sail coming up the old Mississippi. We saw many half clad slaves on the banks who seemed
much pleased to think that Massa Lincoln's soldiers were coming to set them free. We arrived
in New Orleans, La., on the 17th of December and got our fill of oranges and victuals before
the peddlers were stopped from supplying us.

I want to tell you here what a beautiful sight a sunrise and sunset is at sea. There is something
very fascinating about it.

We arrived at Carrollton, just above New Orleans, and went ashore at Camp Parapet, on the morning
of December 18. We pitched our tents in the afternoon and were very glad to be on land once
more and have room to lie down at night.

This completes my narrative of our sea voyage which I certainly have never forgotten, after
having such an experience as I had on a vessel crowded to its utmost capacity and a deck passage
at that.

December 19th. We have cleaned up, washed our clothing and are drying it upon our backs, thereby
saving the trouble of hanging it on the bushes to dry.

December 20th. We received our rifles and now I suppose we shall have to put on our accoutrements
and get right down to drilling in the manual of arms.

December 21st. I was on guard for the first time at Camp Parapet. I am beginning to find out
that camp life in Hartford, Connecticut, was quite different from camp life of instruction
at Camp Parapet, La.

From this date I shall omit many of the dates and unimportant events of camp life, as one day
we drill the next have inspection, so every day brings us many troubles.

Christmas Day. We don't expect a very elaborate dinner. No doubt we shall be thinking of the
good things our friends and loved ones are having at home. Such was a soldier's life fifty
years ago.

December 30th. Wrote a letter to mother and put some small magnolia leaves, a magnolia bud,
a live oak, a cypress and several other varieties into it which I have in my possession to
this day. I had an exquisitely fine sympathy with vegetable life in all its forms and especially
with trees.

I wrote at that time: "The country charms me with its magnificent lemon and orange groves.
The trees are perfectly bowed down with their weight of fruit. Upon my word, I am in love with
the Sunny South. I think when this cruel war is over and I can find my affinity, I shall settle
down in this beautiful country for life. But I am not thinking much about that just now, for
the girls are not much in love with the Union soldiers. The ladies here wear secesh cockades
in their bonnets and it is really amusing to see the curl of the lip and the contempt of countenance
with which they sweep by us. Of course it is no wonder, when we take into consideration the
way they have always lived, and thought that they were fighting for a just cause."

The object of our expedition was to cooperate with General Grant in the reduction of Vicksburg,
but General Banks did not know until he arrived at New Orleans that Port Hudson was fortified
and manned by almost as large a force as he could bring against it, or that fifty miles west
of New Orleans was a force of five or six thousand men ready to move on the city and cut his
lines of communication the moment he moved up the river. In addition to this he was furnished
with transportation for only one division of his army and instructions from General Grant.
There was only one thing that could be done and that was to destroy the Confederate Army west
of the Mississippi; before he could, with safety, leave New Orleans in the rear, and advance
on Port Hudson. Therefore, concentrating his army at Donaldsonville, we marched across the
country to Burwick's Bay and followed up the Bayou Teche to Alexandra, on the Red River, to
the Mississippi. We advanced upon Port Hudson from the north.

On the 15th of January, 1863, our regiments at New Orleans were sent up the river. We went
on board a little steamer, called the Laurel Hill at about eight o'clock in the evening. We
arrived in Baton Rouge about one o'clock on the sixteenth of January and had our tents pitched
before night. These regiments formed the Third Brigade of the Fourth Division of the Nineteenth
Army Corps, General Grover division commander.

January 25th. We were now in the presence of the enemy and the position assigned to the Twenty-fifth
was on the extreme left in advance and we were getting our first taste of active service.

January 26th. Our camp was about half a mile from the town, just on the edge of a dense forest
and cypress swamp. Last night I went out on picket duty for the first time in Baton Rouge.
General Payne warned us that we must look out for the enemy. In the afternoon the officer of
the day came running his horse out where we were on picket and ordered us to stand by our arms
for there was danger of an attack. Toward night we had a man badly wounded and he was sent
to the hospital. During the night there was a great deal of firing upon the out-posts. We certainly
thought there was going to be an attack and half the camp was up all night.

January 27th. I came in from picket in the morning. We were relieved by the Twenty-sixth Maine.
We fired off our rifles at a target and started for camp. We thought sometimes that Louisiana
was a very "quare country," as the Irish man said when he got lost in the woods, and ran up
against an owl in a tree, and thought it was a man calling to him. The woods were plentifully
stocked with game and we could hear most every sound from the hooting of the owls, growling
of wild hogs, to the snarl of the wild-cat and cry of the opossum. It was also a strange sight
to see the limbs festooned from tree to tree. Some of them were gigantic. The trees were covered
with moss or vines that encircled them. Strange as it may seem, we gathered this moss for bedding.
I wonder it didn't kill the whole lot of us, but I think the country agreed with me, for I
could sleep right on the ground under the magnolia trees with nothing but a log for a pillow,
while some of our sentry kept watch.

    [January 28, 1913. It is with great sorrow that I sit down to
    resume this narrative of my army life, for since my last writing I
    have lost a dear son by death. He died on the morning of January
    7th, after a long and painful illness of seventeen weeks, and was
    laid to rest in Grove Hill cemetery on the afternoon of January
    9th. Strange that this affliction should come on the fiftieth
    anniversary of my hardships in the Civil War, but I thought that I
    couldn't proceed until I had made mention of this sad trial.]

And now I must resume my story as best I can. For some weeks we had been very busy doing picket
and guard duty, and acquiring the use of fire-arms. Everything seemed peaceful and quiet, but
it was fearfully cold. It was very singular weather. Following every rain-storm it cleared
intensely cold for several days; then it became very hot again; next we had another storm to
subdue the intense heat. I don't think these sudden changes agreed with the men for we had
a large number on the sick list. Our ranks were very much reduced by sickness. Some of the
companies dwindled down to about half their original number. The result was we had to work
very hard; every day we had to have a large number for picket and guard duty. It was a comical
sight to see the men going out on picket. First we had our overcoats and fixings, then our
cartridge box and belt, then in a sling a good sized blanket and a rubber blanket, then the
haversack with a day's rations and lastly the coffee cup and canteen. The boys got up some
fine dishes, although we hardly knew how to name some of them, but they were fine. I managed
to get hold of some fish and made a delicious fry. Soaked it over night with some hard tack
and the next morning threw the pieces into a frying pan (that our company had confiscated)
along with a little salt pork; to this I added a little concentrated milk that I happened to
have; next toasted some bread and poured the whole over it; why it was a dish fit for anybody.
We were glad to be able to get some soft bread; at first we couldn't get anything but hard
tack and very little of that. Fresh meat we hadn't tasted since we landed till one day, when
out on picket, one of our boys caught a pig and we forthwith skinned and roasted it. You can
imagine that that pig tasted pretty good after going without meat for over a month. The next
day when we were out on picket, a contraband brought us some fresh eggs and sweet potatoes,
but such instances were not very common. Why I became a nine-days' wonder on returning to camp
and relating my experience. We managed to get some fun out of camp life, and my health was
good (about this time I was flourishing like the owl of the desert and the pelican of the wilderness).
One thing we missed was books. The only books we had were our Testaments which I enjoyed reading
very much, for I meant to read some of it every day. The Testament I had was presented to me,
about the time we left Hartford for the seat of war, by a Vernon lady, and I have it in my
possession yet. I prize it still as a great treasure.

February 22d, Sunday, Washington's Birthday. Had inspection in the forenoon and in afternoon
we had a sermon preached to us by our chaplain, Mr. Oviate, whom some might remember when he
preached in Somers, Connecticut.

February 23rd. I was detailed to go on guard duty this morning for 24 hours. The day was celebrated
as Washington's Birthday and the boys had a ball game. At sunset we had a dress parade and
brigade review. Most of the boys were getting pretty short of money, and if we sent any letters
home we had to have them franked as soldiers' letters. This means that soldiers' letters can
be sent without a stamp.

February 24th. Came off guard this morning; had the forenoon to myself; in the afternoon we
had a brigade drill under General Birge in the unpleasant duty of reversed arms and rest, a
duty which we were called upon to perform quite often those days.

February 25th. I went to the hospital with Sergeant Sam Harding of our company. It was a sickening
sight to go over the hospital and see the thin and wasted sufferers, many of them stretched
on the floor with only a blanket and scarce a comfort, let alone a luxury of any kind; many
of them stricken down in their strength by swamp fever; and one by one they dropped off. They
had not even seen the enemy. Poor fellows!

February 26th. It was a very rainy day and we stayed in our tents and cleaned our muskets.
Mortar and gunboats are daily arriving at this port. We have six of the former and four or
five of the latter. The Confederate gunboats are continually making reconnoissance up the river
and occasionally give Port Hudson a taste of their shells. But most of them give her a wide
berth and I think they had better. By the way I want to tell you how hard it was for us poor
boys to get reading matter. When the New York papers arrived they commanded 25 and 30 cents
apiece. You can see that we fellows had to go without, for we had not received a cent of pay
since arriving here. You can't imagine what it is to be cut off from all communication from
the outer world for a week or ten days at a time as we were and during that interval hear nothing
but discouraging rumors and false reports circulated by the Rebels.

February 27th. Came off guard in a soaking rain, in a very cross state of mind, but being neither
sugar nor salt didn't melt away; but I felt that I could stand it awhile longer if our hard-tack
and salt horse held out as well as it had and I felt it would, for I noticed that it stood
by pretty well.

Having a prisoner consigned to my tender mercy to be fed on the bread of affliction and waters
of repentance until further orders, this same prisoner did at dead hour of night break from
the guard-house and abscond to his quarters, did there fare sumptuously on hard-tack and salt-horse.
This coming to the ears of the colonel he did get angry with the officer of the guard and sending
this same officer of the guard a pair of hand-cuffs, did order to arrest this delinquent and
confine him in close quarters and in this performance a spirited encounter did thereupon take
place in which the offender did get upset in one corner and the officer very nearly in the
other; this criminal being finally secured did create such a row he was forced to be gagged
and bound hand and foot.

That the weather hath proved very unpleasant for some time raining hard most of the time when
your humble servant did hope to go round and view the pretty maidens of Baton Rouge and now
that our three commissioned officers not knowing better than to all fall sick at once and go
to the hospital, it bringeth us many cares when we had to have Lieutenant Goodell of Company
F detailed to take command of our company and that the paymaster, (that much desired individual),
hath again disappointed us and we are here as usual without a cent to buy anything for our
comfort or luxury of any kind.

March 7th. However, this camp life was not to last. Admiral Farragut wished to run his fleet
past the batteries of Port Hudson so that we might intercept the Red River traffic and cooperate
with General Grant at Vicksburg. Therefore he asked General Banks to make a demonstration behind
the fortress. This movement was intended to divert the attention of the enemy. General Banks
at once put his army in motion, and our army, with a squadron of cavalry and a battery of regular
artillery men, commenced the advance.

March 9th. Had marching orders this morning and struck our tents about seven o'clock. And we
have been here all day waiting for orders to start.

March 10th. We had marching orders this morning and left camp about five o'clock; when we got
outside the picket lines, our regiment was detailed to do skirmish duty and we immediately
deployed on both sides of the road and into the woods, when we came to the remnants of a bridge
that had been destroyed by the Confederates. We halted here and our regiment was sent out on
picket duty for the night.

March 11th. This morning we had a sharp skirmish with the enemy. One man was killed in Company
I. His name was Rockwell.

March 12th. Last night one-half of our regiment stood by our arms for fear of an attack. Sergeant
Benjamin Turner and myself were up together on the same post. Our army at this time was within
cannon shot of the Confederate works, but they could not get their guns up in time to be of
any service. We were witnesses of a terrible scene, at 1:20 A.M. Two rockets burst into the
air and in an instant all the guns of the fortress lit up the darkness with the flash of their
firing. The fleet replied and until half past one, the roar of one hundred and fifty guns was
incessant. To add terror to the awful scene, the U.S. Frigate Mississippi, which had grounded,
was set on fire to save her from capture. She was soon wrapped in flames and lighted up the
sky for miles around. This good old gunboat which had been in so many battles went up with
a terrific explosion. This desperate enterprise consisted of four ships, and three gunboats,
the latter being lashed to the port side of the ships. But only the Hartford, which flew the
Admiral's dauntless blue, and her consort, the little Albatross, succeeded in running past
the batteries. The other ships were disabled by the enemy's fire and dropped down stream. The
Mississippi, which had no consort, grounded and to save the lives of her men was abandoned
and fired.

March 15th. We started at two o'clock on our return march for Baton Rouge. When we had been
on our way a short time, a hard thunder shower came up, and it rained hard until we halted
for camp about eight miles from Baton Rouge. It was a wet, muddy place, and we named it Camp
Misery. It was very dark and it continued to rain at times during all that long dreary night.
Our quartermaster, John Ives, furnished us with coffee which he brought from Baton Rouge. I
think that we must have had it about every hour during the night.

I cannot refrain from speaking right here of our first surgeon, Dr. Alden Skinner, who went
out with the Twenty-fifth Regiment. For it was at Camp Misery that Dr. Alden Skinner, father
of Town Clerk Francis B. Skinner, contracted a cold that developed into pneumonia and resulted
in his death a short time later. Dr. Skinner, after whom the Rockville Sons of Veterans named
their camp, was a highly respected Rockville physician, who went with us down into that Rebel
stronghold in 1862, as many in town will remember. He was a man of many noble qualities. I
knew him personally, for I had lived with him one winter when I attended school in Rockville.
I felt it a great personal loss, as well as a loss to the regiment when he died. I desire to
express myself at some length relative to this good man who gave his life for our country's
cause fifty years ago about March 30th, 1863. He was very kind to me when we were encamped
at Baton Rouge and especially when that thunder shower came up, as we were marching back from
our first advance on Port Hudson. This experience was on Sunday, March 15, 1863. Dr. Skinner
was on horseback and I can see him now in memory, as he was in that drenching rain, wet to
the skin, as all were. That was the last time I ever saw Dr. Skinner, for he died a few days
after in the hospital at Baton Rouge. He was brought home and was laid to rest in our beautiful
Grove Hill Cemetery.

