The statesman was seated in a spacious library, once a banqueting-room in the old Castle of
Ravenswood, as was evident from the armorial insignia still displayed on the carved roof, which
was vaulted with Spanish chestnut, and on the stained glass of the casement, through which
gleamed a dim yet rich light on the long rows of shelves, bending under the weight of legal
commentators and monkish historians, whose ponderous volumes formed the chief and most valued
contents of a Scottish historian [library] of the period. On the massive oaken table and reading-desk
lay a confused mass of letters, petitions, and parchments; to toil amongst which was the pleasure
at once and the plague of Sir William Ashton's life. His appearance was grave and even noble,
well becoming one who held an high office in the state; and it was not save after long and
intimate conversation with him upon topics of pressing and personal interest, that a stranger
could have discovered something vacillating and uncertain in his resolutions; an infirmity
of purpose, arising from a cautious and timid disposition, which, as he was conscious of its
internal influence on his mind, he was, from pride as well as policy, most anxious to conceal
from others. He listened with great apparent composure to an exaggerated account of the tumult
which had taken place at the funeral, of the contempt thrown on his own authority and that
of the church and state; nor did he seem moved even by the faithful report of the insulting
and threatening language which had been uttered by young Ravenswood and others, and obviously
directed against himself. He heard, also, what the man had been able to collect, in a very
distorted and aggravated shape, of the toasts which had been drunk, and the menaces uttered,
at the subsequent entertainment. In fine, he made careful notes of all these particulars, and
of the names of the persons by whom, in case of need, an accusation, founded upon these violent
proceedings, could be witnessed and made good, and dismissed his informer, secure that he was
now master of the remaining fortune, and even of the personal liberty, of young Ravenswood.

When the door had closed upon the officer of the law, the Lord Keeper remained for a moment
in deep meditation; then, starting from his seat, paced the apartment as one about to take
a sudden and energetic resolution. "Young Ravenswood," he muttered, "is now mine--he is my
own; he has placed himself in my hand, and he shall bend or break. I have not forgot the determined
and dogged obstinacy with which his father fought every point to the last, resisted every effort
at compromise, embroiled me in lawsuits, and attempted to assail my character when he could
not otherwise impugn my rights. This boy he has left behind him--this Edgar--this hot-headed,
hare-brained fool, has wrecked his vessel before she has cleared the harbor. I must see that
he gains no advantage of some turning tide which may again float him off. These memoranda,
properly stated to the privy council, cannot but be construed into an aggravated riot, in which
the dignity both of the civil and ecclesiastical authorities stands committed. A heavy fine
might be imposed; an order for committing him to Edinburgh or Blackness Castle seems not improper;
even a charge of treason might be laid on many of these words and expressions, though God forbid
I should prosecute the matter to that extent. No, I will not; I will not touch his life, even
if it should be in my power; and yet, if he lives till a change of times, what follows? Restitution--perhaps
revenge. I know Athole promised his interest to old Ravenswood, and here is his son already
bandying and making a faction by his own contemptible influence. What a ready tool he would
be for the use of those who are watching the downfall of our administration!"

While these thoughts were agitating the mind of the wily statesman, and while he was persuading
himself that his own interest and safety, as well as those of his friends and party, depended
on using the present advantage to the uttermost against young Ravenswood, the Lord Keeper sate
down to his desk, and proceeded to draw up, for the information of the privy council, an account
of the disorderly proceedings which, in contempt of his warrant, had taken place at the funeral
of Lord Ravenswood. The names of most of the parties concerned, as well as the fact itself,
would, he was well aware, sound odiously in the ears of his colleagues in administration, and
most likely instigate them to make an example of young Ravenswood, at least, in terrorem.

It was a point of delicacy, however, to select such expressions as might infer the young man's
culpability, without seeming directly to urge it, which, on the part of Sir William Ashton,
his father's ancient antagonist, could not but appear odious and invidious. While he was in
the act of composition, labouring to find words which might indicate Edgar Ravenswood to be
the cause of the uproar, without specifically making such a charge, Sir William, in a pause
of his task, chanced, in looking upward, to see the crest of the family for whose heir he was
whetting the arrows and disposing the toils of the law carved upon one of the corbeilles from
which the vaulted roof of the apartment sprung. It was a black bull's head, with the legend,
"I bide my time"; and the occasion upon which it was adopted mingled itself singularly and
impressively with the subject of his present reflections.

It was said by a constant tradition that a Malisius de Ravenswood had, in the 13th century,
been deprived of his castle and lands by a powerful usurper, who had for a while enjoyed his
spoils in quiet. At length, on the eve of a costly banquet, Ravenswood, who had watched his
opportunity, introduced himself into the castle with a small band of faithful retainers. The
serving of the expected feast was impatiently looked for by the guests, and clamorously demanded
by the temporary master of the castle. Ravenswood, who had assumed the disguise of a sewer
upon the occasion, answered, in a stern voice, "I bide my time"; and at the same moment a bull's
head, the ancient symbol of death, was placed upon the table. The explosion of the conspiracy
took place upon the signal, and the usurper and his followers were put to death. Perhaps there
was something in this still known and often repeated story which came immediately home to the
breast and conscience of the Lord Keeper; for, putting from him the paper on which he had begun
his report, and carefully locking the memoranda which he had prepared into a cabinet which
stood beside him, he proceeded to walk abroad, as if for the purpose of collecting his ideas,
and reflecting farther on the consequences of the step which he was about to take, ere yet
they became inevitable.

In passing through a large Gothic ante-room, Sir William Ashton heard the sound of his daughter's
lute. Music, when the performers are concealed, affects us with a pleasure mingled with surprise,
and reminds us of the natural concert of birds among the leafy bowers. The statesman, though
little accustomed to give way to emotions of this natural and simple class, was still a man
and a father.

The sounds ceased, and the Keeper entered his daughter's apartment.

The words she had chosen seemed particularly adapted to her character; for Lucy Ashton's exquisitely
beautiful, yet somewhat girlish features were formed to express peace of mind, serenity, and
indifference to the tinsel of wordly pleasure. Her locks, which were of shadowy gold, divided
on a brow of exquisite whiteness, like a gleam of broken and pallid sunshine upon a hill of
snow. The expression of the countenance was in the last degree gentle, soft, timid, and feminine,
and seemed rather to shrink from the most casual look of a stranger than to court his admiration.
Something there was of a Madonna cast, perhaps the result of delicate health, and of residence
in a family where the dispositions of the inmates were fiercer, more active, and energetic
than her own.

Yet her passiveness of disposition was by no means owing to an indifferent or unfeeling mind.
Left to the impulse of her own taste and feelings, Lucy Ashton was peculiarly accessible to
those of a romantic cast. Her secret delight was in the old legendary tales of ardent devotion
and unalterable affection, chequered as they so often are with strange adventures and supernatural
horrors. This was her favoured fairy realm, and here she erected her aerial palaces. But it
was only in secret that she laboured at this delusive though delightful architecture. In her
retired chamber, or in the woodland bower which she had chosen for her own, and called after
her name, she was in fancy distributing the prizes at the tournament, or raining down influence
from her eyes on the valiant combatants: or she was wandering in the wilderness with Una, under
escort of the generous lion; or she was identifying herself with the simple yet noble-minded
Miranda in the isle of wonder and enchantment.

But in her exterior relations to things of this world, Lucy willingly received the ruling impulse
from those around her. The alternative was, in general, too indifferent to her to render resistance
desirable, and she willingly found a motive for decision in the opinion of her friends which
perhaps she might have sought for in vain in her own choice. Every reader must have observed
in some family of his acquaintance some individual of a temper soft and yielding, who, mixed
with stronger and more ardent minds, is borne along by the will of others, with as little power
of opposition as the flower which is flung into a running stream. It usually happens that such
a compliant and easy disposition, which resigns itself without murmur to the guidance of others,
becomes the darling of those to whose inclinations its own seem to be offered, in ungrudging
and ready sacrifice. This was eminently the case with Lucy Ashton. Her politic, wary, and wordly
father felt for her an affection the strength of which sometimes surprised him into an unusual
emotion. Her elder brother, who trode the path of ambition with a haughtier step than his father,
had also more of human affection. A soldier, and in a dissolute age, he preferred his sister
Lucy even to pleasure and to military preferment and distinction. Her younger brother, at an
age when trifles chiefly occupied his mind, made her the confidante of all his pleasures and
anxieties, his success in field-sports, and his quarrels with his tutor and instructors. To
these details, however trivial, Lucy lent patient and not indifferent attention. They moved
and interested Henry, and that was enough to secure her ear.

Her mother alone did not feel that distinguished and predominating affection with which the
rest of the family cherished Lucy. She regarded what she termed her daughter's want of spirit
as a decided mark that the more plebeian blood of her father predominated in Lucy's veins,
and used to call her in derision her Lammermoor Shepherdess. To dislike so gentle and inoffensive
a being was impossible; but Lady Ashton preferred her eldest son, on whom had descended a large
portion of her own ambitious and undaunted disposition, to a daughter whose softness of temper
seemed allied to feebleness of mind. Her eldest son was the more partially beloved by his mother
because, contrary to the usual custom of Scottish families of distinction, he had been named
after the head of the house.

"My Sholto," she said, "will support the untarnished honour of his maternal house, and elevate
and support that of his father. Poor Lucy is unfit for courts or crowded halls. Some country
laird must be her husband, rich enough to supply her with every comfort, without an effort
on her own part, so that she may have nothing to shed a tear for but the tender apprehension
lest he may break his neck in a foxchase. It was not so, however, that our house was raised,
nor is it so that it can be fortified and augmented. The Lord Keeper's dignity is yet new;
it must be borne as if we were used to its weight, worthy of it, and prompt to assert and maintain
it. Before ancient authorities men bend from customary and hereditary deference; in our presence
they will stand erect, unless they are compelled to prostrate themselves. A daughter fit for
the sheepfold or the cloister is ill qualified to exact respect where it is yielded with reluctance;
and since Heaven refused us a third boy, Lucy should have held a character fit to supply his
place. The hour will be a happy one which disposes her hand in marriage to some one whose energy
is greater than her own, or whose ambition is of as low an order."

So meditated a mother to whom the qualities of her children's hearts, as well as the prospect
of their domestic happiness, seemed light in comparison to their rank and temporal greatness.
But, like many a parent of hot and impatient character, she was mistaken in estimating the
feelings of her daughter, who, under a semblance of extreme indifference, nourished the germ
of those passions which sometimes spring up in one night, like the gourd of the prophet, and
astonish the observer by their unexpected ardour and intensity. In fact, Lucy's sentiments
seemed chill because nothing had occurred to interest or awaken them. Her life had hitherto
flowed on in a uniform and gentle tenor, and happy for her had not its present smoothness of
current resembled that of the stream as it glides downwards to the waterfall!

"So, Lucy," said her father, entering as her song was ended, "does your musical philosopher
teach you to contemn the world before you know it? That is surely something premature. Or did
you but speak according to the fashion of fair maidens, who are always to hold the pleasures
of life in contempt till they are pressed upon them by the address of some gentle knight?"

Lucy blushed, disclaimed any inference respecting her own choice being drawn from her selection
of a song, and readily laid aside her instrument at her father's request that she would attend
him in his walk.

A large and well-wooded park, or rather chase, stretched along the hill behind the castle,
which, occupying, as we have noticed, a pass ascending from the plain, seemed built in its
very gorge to defend the forest ground which arose behind it in shaggy majesty. Into this romantic
region the father and daughter proceeded, arm in arm, by a noble avenue overarched by embowering
elms, beneath which groups of the fallow-deer were seen to stray in distant perspective. As
they paced slowly on, admiring the different points of view, for which Sir William Ashton,
notwithstanding the nature of his usual avocations, had considerable taste and feeling, they
were overtaken by the forester, or park-keeper, who, intent on silvan sport, was proceeding
with his cross-bow over his arm, and a hound led in leash by his boy, into the interior of
the wood.

"Going to shoot us a piece of venison, Norman?" said his master, as he returned the woodsman's
salutation.

"Saul, your honour, and that I am. Will it please you to see the sport?"

"Oh no," said his lordship, after looking at his daughter, whose colour fled at the idea of
seeing the deer shot, although, had her father expressed his wish that they should accompany
Norman, it was probable she would not even have hinted her reluctance.

The forester shrugged his shoulders. "It was a disheartening thing," he said, "when none of
the gentles came down to see the sport. He hoped Captain Sholto would be soon hame, or he might
shut up his shop entirely; for Mr. Harry was kept sae close wi' his Latin nonsense that, though
his will was very gude to be in the wood from morning till night, there would be a hopeful
lad lost, and no making a man of him. It was not so, he had heard, in Lord Ravenswood's time:
when a buck was to be killed, man and mother's son ran to see; and when the deer fell, the
knife was always presented to the knight, and he never gave less than a dollar for the compliment.
And there was Edgar Ravenswood--Master of Ravenswood that is now--when he goes up to the wood--there
hasna been a better hunter since Tristrem's time--when Sir Edgar hauds out, down goes the deer,
faith. But we hae lost a' sense of woodcraft on this side of the hill."

There was much in this harangue highly displeasing to the Lord Keeper's feelings; he could
not help observing that his menial despised him almost avowedly for not possessing that taste
for sport which in those times was deemed the natural and indispensable attribute of a real
gentleman. But the master of the game is, in all country houses, a man of great importance,
and entitled to use considerable freedom of speech. Sir William, therefore, only smiled and
replied, "He had something else to think upon to-day than killing deer"; meantime, taking out
his purse, he gave the ranger a dollar for his encouragement. The fellow received it as the
waiter of a fashionable hotel receives double his proper fee from the hands of a country gentleman--that
is, with a smile, in which pleasure at the gift is mingled with contempt for the ignorance
of the donor. "Your honour is the bad paymaster," he said, "who pays before it is done. What
would you do were I to miss the buck after you have paid me my wood-fee?"

"I suppose," said the Keeper, smiling, "you would hardly guess what I mean were I to tell you
of a condictio indebiti?"

"Not I, on my saul. I guess it is some law phrase; but sue a beggar, and--your honour knows
what follows. Well, but I will be just with you, and if bow and brach fail not, you shall have
a piece of game two fingers fat on the brisket."

As he was about to go off, his master again called him, and asked, as if by accident, whether
the Master of Ravenswood was actually so brave a man and so good a shooter as the world spoke him.

"Brave!--brave enough, I warrant you," answered Norman. "I was in the wood at Tyninghame when
there was a sort of gallants hunting with my lord; on my saul, there was a buck turned to bay
made us all stand back--a stout old Trojan of the first head, ten-tyned branches, and a brow
as broad as e'er a bullock's. Egad, he dashed at the old lord, and there would have been inlake
among the perrage, if the Master had not whipt roundly in, and hamstrung him with his cutlass.
He was but sixteen then, bless his heart!"

"And is he as ready with the gun as with the couteau?" said Sir William.

"He'll strike this silver dollar out from between my finger and thumb at fourscore yards, and
I'll hold it out for a gold merk; what more would ye have of eye, hand, lead, and gunpowder?"
"Oh, no more to be wished, certainly," said the Lord Keeper; "but we keep you from your sport,
Norman. Good morrow, good Norman."

And, humming his rustic roundelay, the yeoman went on his road, the sound of his rough voice
gradually dying away as the distance betwixt them increased:

     "The monk must arise when the matins ring,
     The abbot may sleep to their chime;
     But the yeoman must start when the bugles sing
     'Tis time, my hearts, 'tis time.

     There's bucks and raes on Bilhope braes,
     There's a herd on Shortwood Shaw;
     But a lily-white doe in the garden goes,
     She's fairly worth them a'."

"Has this fellow," said the Lord Keeper, when the yeoman's song had died on the wind, "ever
served the Ravenswood people, that he seems so much interested in them? I suppose you know,
Lucy, for you make it a point of conscience to record the special history of every boor about
the castle."

"I am not quite so faithful a chronicler, my dear father; but I believe that Norman once served
here while a boy, and before he ewnt to Ledington, whence you hired him. But if you want to
know anything of the former family, Old Alice is the best authority."

"And what should I have to do with them, pray, Lucy," said her father, "or with their history
or accomplishments?"

"Nay, I do not know, sir; only that you were asking questions of Norman about young Ravenswood."

"Pshaw, child!" replied her father, yet immediately added: "And who is Old Alice? I think you
know all the old women in the country."

"To be sure I do, or how could I help the old creatures when they are in hard times? And as
to Old Alice, she is the very empress of old women and queen of gossips, so far as legendary
lore is concerned. She is blind, poor old soul, but when she speaks to you, you would think
she has some way of looking into your very heart. I am sure I often cover my face, or turn
it away, for it seems as if she saw one change colour, though she has been blind these twenty
years. She is worth visiting, were it but to say you have seen a blind and paralytic old woman
have so much acuteness of perception and dignity of manners. I assure you, she might be a countess
from her language and behaviour. Come, you must go to see Alice; we are not a quarter of a
mile from her cottage."

"All this, my dear," said the Lord Keeper, "is no answer to my question, who this woman is,
and what is her connexion with the former proprietor's family?"

"Oh, it was somethign of a nouriceship, I believe; and she remained here, because her two grandsons
were engaged in your service. But it was against her will, I fancy; for the poor old creature
is always regretting the change of times and of property."

"I am much obliged to her," answered the Lord Keeper. "She and her folk eat my bread and drink
my cup, and are lamenting all the while that they are not still under a family which never
could do good, either to themselves or any one else!"

"Indeed," replied Lucy, "I am certain you do Old Alice injustice. She has nothing mercenary
about her, and would not accept a penny in charity, if it were to save her from being starved.
She is only talkative, like all old folk when you put them upon stories of their youth; and
she speaks about the Ravenswood people, because she lived under them so many years. But I am
sure she is grateful to you, sir, for your protection, and that she would rather speak to you
than to any other person in the whole world beside. Do, sir, come and see Old Alice."

And with the freedom of an indulged daughter she dragged the Lord Keeper in the direction she
desired.

CHAPTER IV.

     Through tops of the high trees she did descry
     A little smoke, whose vapour, thin and light,
     Reeking aloft, uprolled to the sky,
     Which cheerful sign did send unto her sight,
     That in the same did wonne some living wight.

     SPENSER.

LUCY acted as her father's guide, for he was too much engrossed with his political labours,
or with society, to be perfectly acquainted with his own extensive domains, and, moreover,
was generally an inhabitant of the city of Edinburgh; and she, on the other hand, had, with
her mother, resided the whole summer in Ravenswood, and, partly from taste, partly from want
of any other amusement, had, by her frequent rambles, learned to know each lane, alley, dingle,
or bushy dell,

     And every bosky bourne from side to side.

We have said that the Lord Keeper was not indifferent to the beauties of nature; and we add,
in justice to him, that he felt them doubly when pointed out by the beautiful, simple, and
interesting girl who, hanging on his arm with filial kindness, now called him to admire the
size of some ancient oak, and now the unexpected turn where the path, developing its maze from
glen or dingle, suddenly reached an eminence commanding an extensive view of the plains beneath
them, and then gradually glided away from the prospect to lose itself among rocks and thickets,
and guide to scenes of deeper seclusion.

It was when pausing on one of those points of extensive and commanding view that Lucy told
her father they were close by the cottage of her blind protegee; and on turning from the little
hill, a path which led around it, worn by the daily steps of the infirm inmate, brought them
in sight of the hut, which, embosomed in a deep and obscure dell, seemed to have been so situated
purposely to bear a correspondence with the darkened state of its inhabitant.

The cottage was situated immediately under a tall rock, which in some measure beetled over
it, as if threatening to drop some detached fragment from its brow on the frail tenement beneath.
The hut itself was constructed of turf and stones, and rudely roofed over with thatch, much
of which was in a dilapidated condition. The thin blue smoke rose from it in a light column,
and curled upward along the white face of the incumbent rock, giving the scene a tint of exquisite
softness. In a small and rude garden, surrounded by straggling elder-bushes, which formed a
sort of imperfect hedge, sat near to the beehives, by the produce of which she lived, that
"woman old" whom Lucy had brought her father hither to visit.

Whatever there had been which was disastrous in her fortune, whatever there was miserable in
her dwelling, it was easy to judge by the first glance that neither years, poverty, misfortune,
nor infirmity had broken the spirit of this remarkable woman.

She occupied a turf seat, placed under a weeping birch of unusual magnitude and age, as Judah
is represented sitting under her palm-tree, with an air at once of majesty and of dejection.
Her figure was tall, commanding, and but little bent by the infirmities of old age. Her dress,
though that of a peasant, was uncommonly clean, forming in that particular a strong contrast
to most of her rank, and was disposed with an attention to neatness, and even to taste, equally
unusual. But it was her expression of countenance which chiefly struck the spectator, and induced
most persons to address her with a degree of deference and civility very inconsistent with
the miserable state of her dwelling, and which, nevertheless, she received with that easy composure
which showed she felt it to be her due. She had once been beautiful, but her beauty had been
of a bold and masculine cast, such as does not survive the bloom of youth; yet her features
continued to express strong sense, deep reflection, and a character of sober pride, which,
as we have already said of her dress, appeared to argue a conscious superiority to those of
her own rank. It scarce seemed possible that a face, deprived of the advantage of sight, could
have expressed character so strongly; but her eyes, which were almost totally closed, did not,
by the display of their sightless orbs, mar the countenance to which they could add nothing.
She seemed in a ruminating posture, soothed, perhaps, by the murmurs of the busy tribe around
her to abstraction, though not to slumber.

Lucy undid the latch of the little garden gate, and solicited the old woman's attention. "My
father, Alice, is come to see you."

"He is welcome, Miss Ashton, and so are you," said the old woman, turning and inclining her
head towards her visitors.

"This is a fine morning for your beehives, mother," said the Lord Keeper, who, struck with
the outward appearance of Alice, was somewhat curious to know if her conversation would correspond
with it.

"I believe so, my lord," she replied; "I feel the air breathe milder than of late."

"You do not," resumed the statesman, "take charge of these bees yourself, mother? How do you
manage them?"

"By delegates, as kings do their subjects," resumed Alice; "and I am fortunate in a prime minister.
Here, Babie."

She whistled on a small silver call which ung around her neck, and which at that time was sometimes
used to summon domestics, and Babie, a girl of fifteen, made her appearance from the hut, not
altogether so cleanly arrayed as she would probably have been had Alice had the use of her
yees, but with a greater air of neatness than was upon the whole to have been expected.

"Babie," said her mistress, "offer some bread and honey to the Lord Keeper and Miss Ashton;
they will excuse your awkwardness if you use cleanliness and despatch."

Babie performed her mistress's command with the grace which was naturally to have been expected,
moving to and fro with a lobster-like gesture, her feet and legs tending one way, while her
head, turned in a different direction, was fixed in wonder upon the laird, who was more frequently
heard of than seen by his tenants and dependants. The bread and honey, however, deposited on
a plantain leaf, was offered and accepted in all due courtesy. The Lord Keeper, still retaining
the place which he had occupied on the decayed trunk of a fallen tree, looked as if he wished
to prolong the interview, but was at a loss how to introduce a suitable subject.

"You have been long a resident on this property?" he said, after a pause.

"It is now nearly sixty years since I first knew Ravenswood," answered the old dame, whose
conversation, though perfectly civil and respectful, seemed cautiously limited to the unavoidable
and necessary task of replying to Sir William.

"You are not, I should judge by your accent, of this country originally?" said the Lord Keeper,
in continuation.

"No; I am by birth an Englishwoman." "Yet you seem attached to this country as if it were your
own."

"It is here," replied the blind woman, "that I have drank the cup of joy and of sorrow which
Heaven destined for me. I was here the wife of an upright and affectionate husband for more
than twenty years; I was here the mother of six promising children; it was here that God deprived
me of all these blessings; it was here they died, and yonder, by yon ruined chapel, they lie
all buried. I had no country but theirs while they lived; I have none but theirs now they are
no more."

"But your house," said the Lord Keeper, looking at it, "is miserably ruinous?"

"Do, my dear father," said Lucy, eagerly, yet bashfully, catching at the hint, "give orders
to make it better; that is, if you think it proper."

"It will last my time, my dear Miss Lucy," said the blind woman; "I would not have my lord
give himself the least trouble about it."

"But," said Lucy, "you once had a much better house, and were rich, and now in your old age
to live in this hovel!"

"It is as good as I deserve, Miss Lucy; if my heart has not broke with what I have suffered,
and seen others suffer, it must have been strong enough, adn the rest of this old frame has
no right to call itself weaker."

"You have probably witnessed many changes," said the Lord Keeper; "but your experience must
have taught you to expect them."

"It has taught me to endure them, my lord," was the reply.

"Yet you knew that they must needs arrive in the course of years?" said the statesman.

"Ay; as I knew that the stump, on or beside which you sit, once a tall and lofty tree, must
needs one day fall by decay, or by the axe; yet I hoped my eyes might not witness the downfall
of the tree which overshadowed my dwelling."

"Do not suppose," said the Lord Keeper, "that you will lose any interest with me for looking
back with regret to the days when another family possessed my estates. You had reason, doubtless,
to love them, and I respect your gratitude. I will order some repairs in your cottage, and
I hope we shall live to be friends when we know each other better." "Those of my age," returned
the dame, "make no new friends. I thank you for your bounty, it is well intended undoubtedly;
but I have all I want, and I cannot accept more at your lordship's hand."

"Well, then," continued the Lord Keeper, "at least allow me to say, that I look upon you as
a woman of sense and education beyond your appearance, and that I hope you will continue to
reside on this property of mine rent-free for your life."

"I hope I shall," said the old dame, composedly; "I believe that was made an article in the
sale of Ravenswood to your lordship, though such a trifling circumstance may have escaped your
recollection."

"I remember--I recollect," said his lordship, somewhat confused. "I perceive you are too much
attached to your old friends to accept any benefit from their successor."

"Far from it, my lord; I am grateful for the benefits which I decline, and I wish I could pay
you for offering them, better than what I am now about to say." The Lord Keeper looked at her
in some surprise, but said not a word. "My lord," she continued, in an impressive and solemn
tone, "take care what you do; you are on the brink of a precipice."

"Indeed?" said the Lord Keeper, his mind reverting to the political circumstances of the country.
"Has anything come to your knowledge--any plot or conspiracy?"

"No, my lord; those who traffic in such commodities do not call to their councils the old,
blind, and infirm. My warning is of another kind. You have driven matters hard with the house
of Ravenswood. Believe a true tale: they are a fierce house, and there is danger in dealing
with men when they become desperate."

"Tush," answered the Keeper; "what has been between us has been the work of the law, not my
doing; and to the law they must look, if they would impugn my proceedings."

"Ay, but they may think otherwise, and take the law into their own hand, when they fail of
other means of redress."

"What mean you?" said the Lord Keeper. "Young Ravenswood would not have recourse to personal
violence?"

"God forbid I should say so! I know nothing of the youth but what is honourable and open. Honourable
and open, said I? I should have added, free, generous, noble. But he is still a Ravenswood,
and may bide his time. Remember the fate of Sir George Lockhart."

The Lord Keeper started as she called to his recollection a tragedy so deep and so recent.
The old woman proceeded: "Chiesley, who did the deed, was a relative of Lord Ravenswood. In
the hall of Ravenswood, in my presence and in that of others, he avowed publicly his determination
to do the cruelty which he afterwards committed. I could not keep silence, though to speak
it ill became my station. 'You are devising a dreadful crime,' I said, 'for which you must
reckon before the judgment seat.' Never shall I forget his look, as he replied, 'I must reckon
then for many things, and will reckon for this also.' Therefore I may well say, beware of pressing
a desperate man with the hand of authority. There is blood of Chiesley in the veins of Ravenswood,
and one drop of it were enough to fire him in the circumstances in which he is placed. I say,
beware of him."

The old dame had, either intentionally or by accident, harped aright the fear of the Lord Keeper.
The desperate and dark resource of private assassination, so familiar to a Scottish baron in
former times, had even in the present age been too frequently resorted to under the pressure
of unusual temptation, or where the mind of the actor was prepared for such a crime. Sir William
Ashton was aware of this; as also that young Ravenswood had received injuries sufficient to
prompt him to that sort of revenge, which becomes a frequent though fearful consequence of
the partial administration of justice. He endeavoured to disguise from Alice the nature of
the apprehensions which he entertained; but so ineffectually, that a person even of less penetration
than nature had endowed her with must necessarily have been aware that the subject lay near
his bosom. His voice was changed in its accent as he replied to her, "That the Master of Ravenswood
was a man of honour; and, were it otherwise, that the fate of Chiesley of Dalry was a sufficient
warning to any one who should dare to assume the office of avenger of his own imaginary wrongs."
And having hastily uttered these expressions, he rose and left the place without waiting for
a reply.

CHAPTER V.

     Is she a Capulet?
     O dear account! my life is my foe's debt.

     SHAKESPEARE

THE Lord Keeper walked for nearly a quarter of a mile in profound silence. His daughter, naturally
timid, and bred up in those ideas of filial awe and implicit obedience which were inculcated
upon the youth of that period, did not venture to interrupt his meditations.

"Why do you look so pale, Lucy?" said her father, turning suddenly round and breaking silence.

According to the ideas of the time, which did not permit a young woman to offer her sentiments
on any subject of importance unless required to do so, Lucy was bound to appear ignorant of
the meaning of all that had passed betwixt Alice and her father, and imputed the emotion he
had observed to the fear of the wild cattle which grazed in that part of the extensive chase
through which they were now walking.

Of these animals, the descendants of the savage herds which anciently roamed free in the Caledonian
forests, it was formerly a point of state to preserve a few in the parks of the Scottish nobility.
Specimens continued within the memory of man to be kept at least at three houses of distinction--Hamilton,
namely, Drumlanrig, and Cumbernauld. They had degenerated from the ancient race in size and
strength, if we are to judge from the accounts of old chronicles, and from the formidable remains
frequently discovered in bogs and morasses when drained and laid open. The bull had lost the
shaggy honours of his mane, and the race was small and light made, in colour a dingy white,
or rather a pale yellow, with black horns and hoofs. They retained, however, in some measure,
the ferocity of their ancestry, could not be domesticated on account of their antipathy to
the human race, and were often dangerous if approached unguardedly, or wantonly disturbed.
It was this last reason which has occasioned their being extirpated at the places we have mentioned,
where probably they would otherwise have been retained as appropriate inhabitants of a Scottish
woodland, and fit tenants for a baronial forest. A few, if I mistake not, are still preserved
at Chillingham Castle, in Northumberland, the seat of the Earl of Tankerville.

It was to her finding herself in the vicinity of a group of three or four of these animals,
that Lucy thought proper to impute those signs of fear which had arisen in her countenance
for a different reason. For she had been familiarised with the appearance of the wil cattle
during her walks in the chase; and it was not then, as it may be now, a necessary part of a
young lady's demeanour to indulge in causeless tremors of the nerves. On the present occasion,
however, she speedily found cause for real terror.

Lucy had scarcely replied to her father in the words we have mentioned, and he was just about
to rebuke her supposed timidity, when a bull, stimulated either by the scarlet colour of Miss
Ashton's mantle, or by one of those fits of capricious ferocity to which their dispositions
are liable, detached himself suddenly from the group which was feeding at the upper extremity
of a grassy glade, that seemed to lose itself among the crossing and entangled boughs. The
animal approached the intruders on his pasture ground, at first slowly, pawing the ground with
his hoof, bellowing from time to time, and tearing up the sand with his horns, as if to lash
himself up to rage and violence.

The Lord Keeper, who observed the animal's demeanour, was aware that he was about to become
mischievous, and, drawing his daughter's arm under his own, began to walk fast along the avenue,
in hopes to get out of his sight and his reach. This was the most injudicious course he could
have adopted, for, encouraged by the appearance of flight, the bull began to pursue them at
full speed. Assailed by a danger so imminent, firmer courage than that of the Lord Keeper might
have given way. But paternal tenderness, "love strong as death," sustained him. He continued
to support and drag onward his daughter, until her fears altogether depriving her of the power
of flight, she sunk down by his side; and when he could no longer assist her to escape, he
turned round and placed himself betwixt her and the raging animal, which, advancing in full
career, its brutal fury enhanced by the rapidity of the pursuit, was now within a few yards
of them. The Lord Keeper had no weapons; his age and gravity dispensed even with the usual
appendage of a walking sword--could such appendage have availed him anything.

It seemed inevitable that the father or daughter, or both, should have fallen victims to the
impending danger, when a shot from the neighbouring thicket arrested the progress of the animal.
He was so truly struck between the junction of the spine with the skull, that the wound, which
in any other part of his body might scarce have impeded his career, proved instantly fatal.
Stumbling forward with a hideous bellow, the progressive force of his previous motion, rather
than any operation of his limbs, carried him up to within three yards of the astonished Lord
Keeper, where he rolled on the ground, his limbs darkened with the black death-sweat, and quivering
with the last convulsions of muscular motion.

Lucy lay senseless on the ground, insensible of the wonderful deliverance which she had experience.
Her father was almost equally stupified, so rapid and unexpected had been the transition from
the horrid death which seemed inevitable to perfect security. He gazed on the animal, terrible
even in death, with a species of mute and confused astonishment, which did not permit him distinctly
to understand what had taken place; and so inaccurate was his consciousness of what had passed,
that he might have supposed the bull had been arrested in its career by a thunderbolt, had
he not observed among the branches of the thicket the figure of a man, with a short gun or
musquetoon in his hand.

This instantly recalled him to a sense of their situation: a glance at his daughter reminded
him of the necessity of procuring her assistance. He called to the man, whom he concluded to
be one of his foresters, to give immediate attention to Miss Ashton, while he himself hastened
to call assistance. The huntsman approached them accordingly, and the Lord Keeper saw he was
a stranger, but was too much agitated to make any farther remarks. In a few hurried words he
directed the shooter, as stronger and more active than himself, to carry the young lady to
a neighbouring fountain, while he went back to Alice's hut to procure more aid.

The man to whose timely interference they had been so much indebted did not seem inclined to
leave his good work half finished. He raised Lucy from the ground in his arms, and conveying
her through the glades of the forest by paths with which he seemed well acquainted, stopped
not until he laid her in safety by the side of a plentiful and pellucid fountain, which had
been once covered in, screened and decorated with architectural ornaments of a Gothic character.
But now the vault which had covered it being broken down and riven, and the Gothic font ruined
and demolished, the stream burst forth from the recess of the earth in open day, and winded
its way among the broken sculpture and moss-grown stones which lay in confusion around its source.

Tradition, always busy, at least in Scotland, to grace with a legendary tale a spot in itself
interesting, had ascribed a cause of peculiar veneration to this fountain. A beautiful young
lady met one of the Lords of Ravenswood while hunting near this spot, and, like a second Egeria,
had captivated the affections of the feudal Numa. They met frequently afterwards, and always
at sunset, the charms of the nymph's mind completing the conquest which her beauty had begun,
and the mystery of the intrigue adding zest to both. She always appeared and disappeared close
by the fountain, with which, therefore, her lover judged she had some inexplicable connexion.
She placed certain restrictions on their intercourse, which also savoured of mystery. They
met only once a week--Friday was the appointed day--and she explained to the Lord of Ravenswood
that they were under the necessity of separating so soon as the bell of a chapel, belonging
to a hermitage in the adjoining wood, now long ruinous, should toll the hour of vespers. In
the course of his confession, the Baron of Ravenswood entrusted the hermit with the secret
of this singular amour, and Father Zachary drew the necessary and obvious consequence that
his patron was enveloped in the toils of Satan, and in danger of destruction, both to body
and soul. He urged these perils to the Baron with all the force of monkish rhetoric, and described,
in the most frightful colours, the real character and person of the apparently lovely Naiad,
whom he hesitated not to denounce as a limb of the kingdom of darkness. The lover listened
with obstinate incredulity; and it was not until worn out by the obstinacy of the anchoret
that he consented to put the state and condition of his mistress to a certain trial, and for
that purpose acquiesced in Zachary's proposal that on their next interview the vespers bell
should be rung half an hour later than usual. The hermit maintained and bucklered his opinion,
by quotations from Malleus Malificarum, Sprengerus, Remigius, and other learned demonologists,
that the Evil One, thus seduced to remain behind the appointed hour, would assume her true
shape, and, having appeared to her terrified lover as a fiend of hell, would vanish from him
in a flash of sulphurous lightning. Raymond of Ravenswood acquiesced in the experiment, not
incurious concerning the issue, though confident it would disappoint the expectations of the
hermit.

At the appointed hour the lovers met, and their interview was protracted beyond that at which
they usually parted, by the delay of the priest to ring his usual curfew. No change took place
upon the nymph's outward form; but as soon as the lengthening shadows made her aware that the
usual hour of the vespers chime was passed, she tore herself from her lover's arms with a shriek
of despair, bid him adieu for ever, and, plunging into the fountain, disappeared from his eyes.
The bubbles occasioned by her descent were crimsoned with blood as they arose, leading the
distracted Baron to infer that his ill-judged curiosity had occasioned the death of this interesting
and mysterious being. The remorse which he felt, as well as the recollection of her charms,
proved the penance of his future life, which he lost in the battle of Flodden not many months
after. But, in memory of his Naiad, he had previously ornamented the fountain in which she
appeared to reside, and secured its waters from profanation or pollution by the small vaulted
building of which the fragments still remained scattered around it. From this period the house
of Ravenswood was supposed to have dated its decay.

Such was the generally-received legend, which some, who would seem wiser than the vulgar, explained
as obscurely intimating the fate of a beautiful maid of plebeian rank, the mistress of this
Raymond, whom he slew in a fit of jealousy, and whose blood was mingled with the waters of
the locked fountain, as it was commonly called. Others imagined that the tale had a more remote
origin in the ancient heathen mythology. All, however, agreed that the spot was fatal to the
Ravenswood family; and that to drink of the waters of the well, or even approach its brink,
was as ominous to a descendant of that house as for a Grahame to wear green, a Bruce to kill
a spider, or a St. Clair to cross the Ord on a Monday.

It was on this ominous spot that Lucy Ashton first drew breath after her long and almost deadly
swoon. Beautiful and pale as the fabulous Naiad in the last agony of separation from her lover,
she was seated so as to rest with her back against a part of the ruined wall, while her mantle,
dripping with the water which her protector had used profusely to recall her senses, clung
to her slender and beautifully proportioned form.

The first moment of recollection brought to her mind the danger which had overpowered her senses;
the next called to remembrance that of her father. She looked around; he was nowhere to be
seen. "My father, my father!" was all that she could ejaculate.

"Sir William is safe," answered the voice of a stranger--"perfectly safe, adn will be with
you instantly."

"Are you sure of that?" exclaimed Lucy. "The bull was close by us. Do not stop me: I must go
to seek my father!"

And she rose with that purpose; but her strength was so much exhausted that, far from possessing
the power to execute her purpose, she must have fallen against the stone on which she had leant,
probably not without sustaining serious injury.

The stranger was so near to her that, without actually suffering her to fall, he could not
avoid catching her in his arms, which, however, he did with a momentary reluctance, very unusual
when youth interposes to prevent beauty from danger. It seemed as if her weight, slight as
it was, proved too heavy for her young and athletic assistant, for, without feeling the temptation
of detaining her in his arms even for a single instant, he again placed her on the stone from
which she had risen, and retreating a few steps, repeated hastily "Sir William Ashton is perfectly
safe and will be here instantly. Do not make yourself anxious on his account: Fate has singularly
preserved him. You, madam, are exhausted, and must not think of rising until you have some
assistance more suitable than mine."

Lucy, whose senses were by this time more effectually collected, was naturally led to look
at the stranger with attention. There was nothing in his appearance which should have rendered
him unwilling to offer his arm to a young lady who required support, or which could have induced
her to refuse his assistance; and she could not help thinking, even in that moment, that he
seemed cold and reluctant to offer it. A shooting-dress of dark cloth intimated the rank of
the wearer, though concealed in part by a large and loose cloak of a dark brown colour. A montero
cap and a black feather drooped over the wearer's brow, and partly concealed his features,
which, so far as seen, were dark, regular, adn full of majestic, though somewhat sullen, expression.
Some secret sorrow, or the brooding spirit of some moody passion, had quenched the light and
ingenuous vivacity of youth in a countenance singularly fitted to display both, and it was
not easy to gaze on the stranger without a secret impression either of pity or awe, or at least
of doubt and curiosity allied to both.

The impression which we have necessarily been long in describing, Lucy felt in the glance of
a moment, and had no sooner encountered the keen black eyes of the stranger than her own were
bent on the ground with a mixture of bashful embarrassment and fear. Yet there was a necessity
to speak, or at last she thought so, and in a fluttered accent she began to mention her wonderful
escape, in which she was sure that the stranger must, under Heaven, have been her father's
protector and her own.

He seemed to shrink from her expressions of gratitude, while he replied abruptly, "I leave
you, madam," the deep melody of his voice rendered powerful, but not harsh, by something like
a severity of tone--"I leave you to the protection of those to whom it is possible you may
have this day been a guardian angel."

Lucy was surprised at the ambiguity of his language, and, with a feeling of artless and unaffected
gratitude, began to deprecate the idea of having intended to give her deliverer any offence,
as if such a thing had been possible. "I have been unfortunate," she said, "in endeavouring
to express my thanks--I am sure it must be so, though I cannot recollect what I said; but would
you but stay till my father--till the Lord Keeper comes; would you only permit him to pay you
his thanks, and to inquire your name?"

"My name is unnecessary," answered the stranger; "your father--I would rather say Sir William
Ashton--will learn it soon enough, for all the pleasure it is likely to afford him."

"You mistake him," said Lucy, earnestly; "he will be grateful for my sake and for his own.
You do not know my father, or you are deceiving me with a story of his safety, when he has
already fallen a victim to the fury of that animal."

When she had caught this idea, she started from the ground and endeavoured to press towards
the avenue in which the accident had taken place, while the stranger, though he seemed to hesitate
between the desire to assist and the wish to leave her, was obliged, in common humanity, to
oppose her both by entreaty and action.

"On the word of a gentleman, madam, I tell you the truth; your father is in perfect safety;
you will expose yourself to injury if you venture back where the herd of wild cattle grazed.
If you will go"--for, having once adopted the idea that her father was still in danger, she
pressed forward in spite of him--"if you WILL go, accept my arm, though I am not perhaps the
person who can with most propriety offer you support."

But, without heeding this intimation, Lucy took him at his word. "Oh, if you be a man," she
said--"if you be a gentleman, assist me to find my father! You shall not leave me--you must
go with me; he is dying perhaps while we are talking here!"

Then, without listening to excuse or apology, and holding fast by the stranger's arm, though
unconscious of anything save the support which it gave, and without which she could not have
moved, mixed with a vague feeling of preventing his escape from her, she was urging, and almost
dragging, him forward when Sir William Ashton came up, followed by the female attendant of
blind Alice, and by two woodcutters, whom he had summoned from their occupation to his assistance.
His joy at seeing his daughter safe overcame the surprise with which he would at another time
have beheld her hanging as familiarly on the arm of a stranger as she might have done upon his own.

"Lucy, my dear Lucy, are you safe?--are you well?" were the only words that broke from him
as he embraced her in ecstasy.

"I am well, sir, thank God! and still more that I see you so; but this gentleman," she said,
quitting his arm and shrinking from him, "what must he think of me?" and her eloquent blood,
flushing over neck and brow, spoke how much she was ashamed of the freedom with which she had
craved, and even compelled, his assistance.

"This gentleman," said Sir William Ashton, "will, I trust, not regret the trouble we have given
him, when I assure him of the gratitude of the Lord Keeper for the greatest service which one
man ever rendered to another--for the life of my child--for my own life, which he has saved
by his bravery and presence of mind. He will, I am sure, permit us to request----" "Request
nothing of ME, my lord," said the stranger, in a stern and peremptory tone; "I am the Master
of Ravenswood."

There was a dead pause of surprise, not unmixed with less pleasant feelings. The Master wrapt
himself in his cloak, made a haughty inclination toward Lucy, muttering a few words of courtesy,
as indistinctly heard as they seemed to be reluctantly uttered, and, turning from them, was
immediately lost in the thicket.

"The Master of Ravenswood!" said the Lord Keeper, when he had recovered his momentary astonishment.
"Hasten after him--stop him--beg him to speak to me for a single moment."

The two foresters accordingly set off in pursuit of the stranger. They speedily reappeared,
and, in an embarrassed and awkward manner, said the gentleman would not return.

The Lord Keeper took one of the fellows aside, and questioned him more closely what the Master
of Ravenswood had said.

"He just said he wadna come back," said the man, with the caution of a prudent Scotchman, who
cared not to be the bearer of an unpleasant errand.

"He said something more, sir," said the Lord Keeper, "and I insist on knowing what it was."

"Why, then, my lord," said the man, looking down, "he said--But it wad be nae pleasure to your
lordship to hear it, for I dare say the Master meant nae ill."

"That's none of your concern, sir; I desire to hear the very words."

"Weel, then," replied the man, "he said, 'Tell Sir William Ashton that the next time he and
I forgather, he will nto be half sae blythe of our meeting as of our parting.'"

"Very well, sir," said the Lord Keeper, "I believe he alludes to a wager we have on our hawks;
it is a matter of no consequence."

He turned to his daughter, who was by this time so much recovered as to be able to walk home.
But the effect, which the various recollections connected with a scene so terrific made upon
a mind which was susceptible in an extreme degree, was more permanent than the injury which
her nerves had sustained. Visions of terror, both in sleep and in waking reveries, recalled
to her the form of the furious animal, and the dreadful bellow with which he accompanied his
career; and it was always the image of the Master of Ravenswood, with his native nobleness
of countenance and form, that seemed to interpose betwixt her and assured death. It is, perhaps,
at all times dangerous for a young person to suffer recollection to dwell repeatedly, and with
too much complacency, on the same individual; but in Lucy's situation it was almost unavoidable.
She had never happened to see a young man of mien and features so romantic and so striking
as young Ravenswood; but had she seen an hundred his equals or his superiors in those particulars,
no one else would have been linked to her heart by the strong associations of remembered danger
and escape, of gratitude, wonder, and curiosity. I say curiosity, for it is likely that the
singularly restrained and unaccommodating manners of the Master of Ravenswood, so much at variance
with the natural expression of his features and grace of his deportment, as they excited wonder
by the contrast, had their effect in riveting her attention to the recollections. She knew
little of Ravenswood, or the disputes which had existed betwixt her father and his, and perhaps
could in her gentleness of mind hardly have comprehended the angry and bitter passions which
they had engendered. But she knew that he was come of noble stem; was poor, though descended
from the noble and the wealthy; and she felt that she could sympathise with the feelings of
a proud mind, which urged him to recoil from the proffered gratitude of the new proprietors
of his father's house and domains. Would he have equally shunned their acknowledgments and
avoided their intimacy, had her father's request been urged more mildly, less abruptly, and
softened with the grace which women so well know how to throw into their manner, when they
mean to mediate betwixt the headlong passions of the ruder sex? This was a perilous question
to ask her own mind--perilous both in the idea and its consequences.

Lucy Ashton, in short, was involved in those mazes of the imagination which are most dangerous
to the young and the sensitive. Time, it is true, absence, change of scene and new faces, might
probably have destroyed the illusion in her instance, as it has done in many others; but her
residence remained solitary, and her mind without those means of dissipating her pleasing visions.
This solitude was chiefly owing to the absence of Lady Ashton, who was at this time in Edinburgh,
watching the progress of some state-intrigue; the Lord Keeper only received society out of
policy or ostentation, and was by nature rather reserved and unsociable; and thus no cavalier
appeared to rival or to obscure the ideal picture of chivalrous excellence which Lucy had pictured
to herself in the Master of Ravenswood.

While Lucy indulged in these dreams, she made frequent visits to old blind Alice, hoping it
would be easy to lead her to talk on the subject which at present she had so imprudently admitted
to occupy so large a portion of her thoughts. But Alice did not in this particular gratify
her wishes and expectations. She spoke readily, and with pathetic feeling, concerning the family
in general, but seemed to observe an especial and cautious silence on the subject of the present
representative. The little she said of him was not altogether so favourable as Lucy had anticipated.
She hinted that he was of a stern and unforgiving character, more ready to resent than to pardon
injuries; and Lucy combined, with great alarm, the hints which she now dropped of these dangerous
qualities with Alice's advice to her father, so emphatically given, "to beware of Ravenswood."

But that very Ravenswood, of whom such unjust suspicions had been entertained, had, almost
immediately after they had been uttered, confuted them by saving at once her father's life
and her own. Had he nourished such black revenge as Alice's dark hints seemed to indicate,
no deed of active guilt was necessary to the full gratification of that evil passion. He needed
but to have withheld for an instant his indispensable and effective assistance, and the object
of his resentment must have perished, without any direct aggression on his part, by a death
equally fearful and certain. She conceived, therefore, that some secret prejudice, or the suspicions
incident to age and misfortune, had led Alice to form conclusions injurious to the character,
and irreconcilable both with the generous conduct and noble features, of the Master of Ravenswood.
And in this belief Lucy reposed her hope, and went on weaving her enchanted web of fairy tissue,
as beautiful and transient as the film of the gossamer when it is pearled with the morning
dew and glimmering to the sun.

Her father, in the mean while, as well as the Master of Ravenswood, were making reflections,
as frequent though more solid than those of Lucy, upon the singular event which had taken place.
The Lord Keeper's first task, when he returned home, was to ascertain by medical advice that
his daughter had sustained no injury from the dangerous and alarming situation in which she
had been placed. Satisfied on this topic, he proceeded to revise the memoranda which he had
taken down from the mouth of the person employed to interrupt the funeral service of the late
Lord Ravenswood. Bred to casuistry, and well accustomed to practise the ambidexter ingenuity
of the bar, it cost him little trouble to soften the features of the tumult which he had been
at first so anxious to exaggerate. He preached to his colleagues of the privy council the necessity
of using conciliatory measures with young men, whose blood and temper were hot, and their experience
of life limited. He did not hesitate to attribute some censure to the conduct of the officer,
as having been unnecessarily irritating.

These were the contents of his public despatches. The letters which he wrote to those private
friends into whose management the matter was likely to fall were of a yet more favourable tenor.
He represented that lenity in this case would be equally politic and popular, whereas, considering
the high respect with which the rites of interment are regarded in Scotland, any severity exercised
against the Master of Ravenswood for protecting those of his father from interruption, would
be on all sides most unfavourably construed. And, finally, assuming the language of a generous
and high-spirited man, he made it his particular request that this affair should be passed
over without severe notice. He alluded with delicacy to the predicament in which he himself
stood with young Ravenswood, as having succeeded in the long train of litigation by which the
fortunes of that noble house had been so much reduced, and confessed it would be most peculiarly
acceptable to his own feelings, could he find in some sort to counterbalance the disadvantages
which he had occasioned the family, though only in the prosecution of his just and lawful rights.
He therefore made it his particular and personal request that the matter should have no farther
consequences, an insinuated a desire that he himself should have the merit of having put a
stop to it by his favourable report and intercession. It was particularly remarkable that,
contrary to his uniform practice, he made no special communication to Lady Ashton upon the
subject of the tumult; and although he mentioned the alarm which Lucy had received from one
of the wild cattle, yet he gave no detailed account of an incident so interesting and terrible.

There was much surprise among Sir William Ashton's political friends and colleagues on receiving
letters of a tenor so unexpected. On comparing notes together, one smiled, one put up his eyebrows,
a third nodded acquiescence in the general wonder, and a fourth asked if they were sure these
were ALL the letters the Lord Keeper had written on the subject. "It runs strangely in my mind,
my lords, that none of these advices contain the root of the matter."

But no secret letters of a contrary nature had been received, although the question seemed
to imply the possibility of their existence.

"Well," said an old grey-headed statesman, who had contrived, by shifting and trimming, to
maintain his post at the steerage through all the changes of course which the vessel had held
for thirty years, "I thought Sir William would hae verified the auld Scottish saying, 'As soon
comes the lamb's skin to market as the auld tup's'."

"We must please him after his own fashion," said another, "though it be an unlooked-for one."

"A wilful man maun hae his way," answered the old counsellor.

"The Keeper will rue this before year and day are out," said a third; "the Master of Ravenswood
is the lad to wind him a pirn."

"Why, what would you do, my lords, with the poor young fellow?" said a noble Marquis present.
"The Lord Keeper has got all his estates; he has not a cross to bless himself with."

On which the ancient Lord Turntippet replied,

     "If he hasna gear to fine,
     He ha shins to pine.

"And that was our way before the Revolution: Lucitur cum persona, qui luere non potest cum
crumena. Hegh, my lords, that's gude law Latin."

"I can see no motive," replied the Marquis, "that any noble lord can have for urging this matter
farther; let the Lord Keeper have the power to deal in it as he pleases."

"Agree, agree--remit to the Lord Keeper, with any other person for fashion's sake--Lord Hirplehooly,
who is bed-ridden--one to be a quorum. Make your entry in the minutes, Mr. Clerk. And now,
my lords, there is that young scattergood the Laird of Bucklaw's fine to be disposed upon.
I suppose it goes to my Lord Treasurer?"

"Shame be in my meal-poke, then," exclaimed the Lord Turntippet, "and your hand aye in the
nook of it! I had set that down for a bye-bit between meals for mysell."

"To use one of your favourite saws, my lord," replied the Marquis, "you are like the miller's
dog, that licks his lips before the bag is untied: the man is not fined yet."

"But that costs but twa skarts of a pen," said Lord Turntippet; "and surely there is nae noble
lord that will presume to say that I, wha hae complied wi' a' compliances, taen all manner
of tests, adjured all that was to be abjured, and sworn a' that was to be sworn, for these
thirty years bye-past, sticking fast by my duty to the state through good report and bad report,
shouldna hae something now and then to synd my mouth wi' after sic drouthy wark? Eh?"

"It would be very unreasonable indeed, my lord," replied the Marquis, "had we either thought
that your lordship's drought was quenchable, or observed anything stick in your throat that
required washing down."

And so we close the scene on the privy council of that period.

CHAPTER VI.

     For this are all these warriors come,
     To hear an idle tale;
     And o'er our death-accustom'd arms
     Shall silly tears prevail?

     HENRY MACKENZIE.

ON the evening of the day when the Lord Keeper and his daughter were saved from such imminent
peril, two strangers were seated in the most private apartment of a small obscure inn, or rather
alehouse, called the Tod's Den [Hole], about three or four [five or six] miles from the Castle
of Ravenswood and as far from the ruinous tower of Wolf's Crag, betwixt which two places it
was situated.

One of these strangers was about forty years of age, tall, and thin in the flanks, with an
aquiline nose, dark penetrating eyes, and a shrewd but sinister cast of countenance. The other
was about fifteen years younger, short, stout, ruddy-faced, and red-haired, with an open, resolute,
and cheerful eye, to which careless and fearless freedom and inward daring gave fire and expression,
notwithstanding its light grey colour. A stoup of wine (for in those days it was erved out
from the cask in pewter flagons) was placed on the table, and each had his quaigh or bicker
before him. But there was little appearance of conviviality. With folded arms, and looks of
anxious expectation, they eyed each other in silence, each wrapt in his own thoughts, and holding
no communication with his neighbour. At length the younger broke silence by exclaiming: "What
the foul fiend can detain the Master so long? He must have miscarried in his enterprise. Why
did you dissuade me from going with him?"

"One man is enough to right his own wrong," said the taller and older personage; "we venture
our lives for him in coming thus far on such an errand."

"You are but a craven after all, Craigengelt," answered the younger, "and that's what many
folk have thought you before now." "But what none has dared to tell me," said Craigengelt,
laying his hand on the hilt of his sword; "and, but that I hold a hasty man no better than
a fool, I would----" he paused for his companion's answer.

"WOULD you?" said the other, coolly; "and why do you not then?"

Craigengelt drew his cutlass an inch or two, and then returned it with violence into the scabbard--"Because
there is a deeper stake to be played for than the lives of twenty harebrained gowks like you."

"You are right there," said his companion, "for it if were not that these forfeitures, and
that last fine that the old driveller Turntippet is gaping for, and which, I dare say, is laid
on by this time, have fairly driven me out of house and home, I were a coxcomb and a cuckoo
to boot to trust your fair promises of getting me a commission in the Irish brigade. What have
I to do with the Irish brigade? I am a plain Scotchman, as my father was before me; and my
grand-aunt, Lady Girnington, cannot live for ever."

"Ay, Bucklaw," observed Craigengelt, "but she may live for many a long day; and for your father,
he had land and living, kept himself close from wadsetters and money-lenders, paid each man
his due, and lived on his own."

"And whose fault it it that I have not done so too?" said Bucklaw--"whose but the devil's and
yours, and such-like as you, that have led me to the far end of a fair estate? And now I shall
be obliged, I suppose, to shelter and shift about like yourself: live one week upon a line
of secret intelligence from Saint Germains; another upon a report of a rising in the Highlands;
get my breakfast and morning draught of sack from old Jacobite ladies, and give them locks
of my old wig for the Chevalier's hair; second my friend in his quarrel till he comes to the
field, and then flinch from him lest so important a political agent should perish from the
way. All this I must do for bread, besides calling myself a captain!"

"You think you are making a fine speech now," said Craigengelt, "and showing much wit at my
expense. Is starving or hanging better than the life I am obliged to lead, because the present
fortunes of the king cannot sufficiently support his envoys?" "Starving is honester, Craigengelt,
and hanging is like to be the end on't. But what you mean to make of this poor fellow Ravenswood,
I know not. He has no money left, any more than I; his lands are all pawned and pledged, and
the interest eats up the rents, and is not satisfied, and what do you hope to make by meddling
in his affairs?"

"Content yourself, Bucklaw; I know my business," replied Craigengelt. "Besides that his name,
and his father's services in 1689, will make such an acquisition sound well both at Versailles
and Saint Germains, you will also please be informed that the Master of Ravenswood is a very
different kind of a young fellow from you. He has parts and address, as well as courage and
talents, and will present himself abroad like a young man of head as well as heart, who knows
something more than the speed of a horse or the flight of a hawk. I have lost credit of late,
by bringing over no one that had sense to know more than how to unharbour a stag, or take and
reclaim an eyas. The Master has education, sense, and penetration."

"And yet is not wise enough to escape the tricks of a kidnapper, Craigengelt?" replied the
younger man. "But don't be angry; you know you will nto fight, and so it is as well to leave
your hilt in peace andquiet, and tell me in sober guise how you drew the Master into your confidence?"

"By flattering his love of vengeance, Bucklaw," answered Craigengelt. "He has always distrusted
me; but I watched my time, and struck while his temper was red-hot with the sense of insult
and of wrong. He goes now to expostulate, as he says, and perhaps thinks, with Sir William
Ashton. I say, that if they meet, and the lawyer puts him to his defence, the Master will kill
him; for he had that sparkle in his eye which never deceives you when you would read a man's
purpose. At any rate, he will give him such a bullying as will be construed into an assault
on a privy councillor; so there will be a total breach betwixt him and government. Scotland
will be too hot for him; France will gain him; and we will all set sail together in the French
brig 'L'Espoir,' which is hovering for us off Eyemouth."

"Content am I," said Bucklaw; "Scotland has little left that I care about; and if carrying
the Master with us will get us a better reception in France, why, so be it, a God's name. I
doubt our own merits will procure us slender preferment; and I trust he will send a ball through
the Keeper's head before he joins us. One or two of these scoundrel statesmen should be shot
once a year, just to keep the others on their good behaviour."

"That is very true," replied Craigengelt; "and it reminds me that I must go and see that our
horses have been fed and are in readiness; for, should such deed be done, it will be no time
for grass to grow beneath their heels." He proceeded as far as the door, then turned back with
a look of earnestness, and said to Bucklaw: "Whatever should come of this business, I am sure
you will do me the justice to remember that I said nothing to the Master which could imply
my accession to any act of violence which he may take it into his head to commit."

"No, no, not a single word like accession," replied Bucklaw; "you know too well the risk belonging
to these two terrible words, 'art and part.'"

"What is that you are talking to yourself?" said Craigengelt, turning back with some anxiety.

"Nothing, only two lines I have heard upon the stage," replied his companion.

"Bucklaw," said Craigengelt, "I sometimes think you should have been a stage-player yourself;
all is fancy and frolic with you."

"I have often thought so myself," said Bucklaw. "I believe it would be safer than acting with
you in the Fatal Conspiracy. But away, play your own part, and look after the horses like a
groom as you are. A play-actor--a stage-player!" he repeated to himself; "that would have deserved
a stab, but that Craigengelt's a coward. And yet I should like the profession well enough.
Stay, let me see; ay, I would come out in Alexander:

     Thus from the grave I rise to save my love,
     Draw all your swords, and quick as lightning move.
     When I rush on, sure none will dare to stay:
     'Tis love commands, and glory leads the way."

As with a voice of thunder, and his hand upon his sword, Bucklaw repeated the ranting couplets
of poor Lee, Craigengelt re-entered with a face of alarm.

"We are undone, Bucklaw! The Master's led horse has cast himself over his halter in the stable,
and is dead lame. His hackney will be set up with the day's work, and now he has no fresh horse;
he will never get off."

"Egad, there will be no moving with the speed of lightning this bout," said Bucklaw, drily.
"But stay, you can give him yours."

"What! and be taken myself? I thank you for the proposal," said Craigengelt.

"Why," replied Bucklaw, "if the Lord Keeper should have met with a mischance, which for my
part I cannot suppose, for the Master is not the lad to shoot an old and unarmed man--but IF
there should have been a fray at the Castle, you are neither art not part in it, you know,
so have nothing to fear."

"True, true," answered the other, with embarrassment; "but consider my commission from Saint
Germains."

"Which many men think is a commission of your own making, noble Captain. Well, if you will
not give him your horse, why, d----n it, he must have mine."

"Yours?" said Craigengelt.

"Ay, mine," repeated Bucklaw; "it shall never be said that I agreed to back a gentleman in
a little affair of honour, and neither helped him on with it nor off from it."

"You will give him your horse? and have you considered the loss?"

"Loss! why, Grey Gilbert cost me twenty Jacobuses, that's true; but then his hackney is worth
something, and his Black Moor is worth twice as much were he sound, and I know how to handle
him. Take a fat sucking mastiff whelp, flay and bowel him, stuff the body full of black and
grey snails, roast a reasonable time, and baste with oil of spikenard, saffron, cinnamon, and
honey, anoint with the dripping, working it in----"

"Yes, Bucklaw; but in the mean while, before the sprain is cured, nay, before the whelp is
roasted, you will be caught and hung. Depend on it, the chase will be hard after Ravenswood.
I wish we had made our place of rendezvous nearer to the coast."

"On my faith, then," said Bucklaw, "I had best go off just now, and leave my horse for him.
Stay--stay, he comes: I hear a horse's feet."

"Are you sure there is only one?" said Craigengelt. "I fear there is a chase; I think I hear
three or four galloping together. I am sure I hear more horses than one."

"Pooh, pooh, it is the wench of the house clattering to the well in her pattens. By my faith,
Captain, you should give up both your captainship and your secret service, for you are as easily
scared as a wild goose. But here comes the Master alone, and looking as gloomy as a night in
November."

The Master of Ravenswood entered the room accordingly, his cloak muffled around him, his arms
folded, his looks stern, and at the same time dejected. He flung his cloak from him as he entered,
threw himself upon a chair, and appeared sunk in a profound reverie.

"What has happened? What have you done?" was hastily demanded by Craigengelt and Bucklaw in
the same moment.

"Nothing!" was the short and sullen answer.

"Nothing! and left us, determined to call the old villain to account for all the injuries that
you, we, and the country have received at his hand? Have you seen him?" "I have," replied the
Master of Ravenswood.

"Seen him--and come away without settling scores which have been so long due?" said Bucklaw;
"I would not have expected that at the hand of the Master of Ravenswood."

"No matter what you expected," replied Ravenswood; "it is not to you, sir, that I shall be
disposed to render any reason for my conduct."

"Patience, Bucklaw," said Craigengelt, interrupting his companion, who seemed about to make
an angry reply. "The Master has been interrupted in his purpose by some accident; but he must
excuse the anxious curiosity of friends who are devoted to his cause like you and me."

"Friends, Captain Craigengelt!" retorted Ravenswood, haughtily; "I am ignorant what familiarity
passed betwixt us to entitle you to use that expression. I think our friendship amounts to
this, that we agreed to leave Scotland together so soon as I should have visited the alienated
mansion of my fathers, and had an interview with its present possessor--I will not call him
proprietor."

"Very true, Master," answered Bucklaw; "and as we thought you had in mind to do something to
put your neck in jeopardy, Craigie and I very courteously agreed to tarry for you, although
ours might run some risk in consequence. As to Craigie, indeed, it does not very much signify:
he had gallows written on his brow in the hour of his birth; but I should not like to discredit
my parentage by coming to such an end in another man's cause."

"Gentlemen," said the Master of Ravenswood, "I am sorry if I have occasioned you any inconvenience,
but I must claim the right of judging what is best for my own affairs, without rendering explanations
to any one. I have altered my mind, and do not design to leave the country this season."

"Not to leave the country, Master!" exclaimed Craigengelt. "Not to go over, after all the trouble
and expense I have incurred--after all the risk of discovery, and the expense of freight and
demurrage!"

"Sir," replied the Master of Ravenswood, "when I designed to leave this country in this haste,
I made use of your obliging offer to procure me means of conveyance; but I do not recollect
that I pledged myself to go off, if I found occasion to alter my mind. For your trouble on
my account, I am sorry, and I thank you; your expense," he added, putting his hand into his
pocket, "admits a more solid compensation: freight and demurrage are matters with which I am
unacquainted, Captain Craigengelt, but take my purse and pay yourself according to your own
conscience." And accordingly he tendered a purse with some gold in it to the soi-disant captain.

But here Bucklaw interposed in his turn. "Your fingers, Craigie, seem to itch for that same
piece of green network," said he; "but I make my vow to God, that if they offer to close upon
it, I will chop them off with my whinger. Since the Master has changed his mind, I suppose
we need stay here no longer; but in the first place I beg leave to tell him----"

"Tell him anything you will," said Craigengelt, "if you will first allow me to state the inconveniences
to which he will expose himself by quitting our society, to remind him of the obstacles to
his remaining here, and of the difficulties attending his proper introduction at Versailles
and Saint Germains without the countenance of those who have established useful connexions."

"Besides forfeiting the friendship," said Bucklaw, "of at least one man of spirit and honour."

"Gentlemen," said Ravenswood, "permit me once more to assure you that you have been pleased
to attach to our temporary connexion more importance than I ever meant that it should have.
When I repair to foreign courts, I shall not need the introduction of an intriguing adventurer,
nor is it necessary for me to set value on the friendship of a hot-headed bully." With these
words, and without waiting for an answer, he left the apartment, remounted his horse, and was
heard to ride off.

"Mortbleu!" said Captain Craigengelt, "my recruit is lost!"

"Ay, Captain," said Bucklaw, "the salmon is off with hook and all. But I will after him, for
I have had more of his insolence than I can well digest."

Craigengelt offered to accompany him; but Bucklaw replied: "No, no, Captain, keep you the check
of the chimney-nook till I come back; it's good sleeping in a haill skin.

     Little kens the auld wife that sits by the fire,
     How cauld the wind blaws in hurle-burle swire."

And singing as he went, he left the apartment.

CHAPTER VII.

     Now, Billy Berwick, keep good heart,
     And of they talking let me be;
     But if thou art a man, as I am sure thou art,
     Come over the dike and fight with me.

     Old Ballad.

THE Master of Ravenswood had mounted the ambling hackney which he before rode, on finding the
accident which had happened to his led horse, and, for the animal's ease, was proceeding at
a slow pace from the Tod's Den towards his old tower of Wolf's Crag, when he heard the galloping
of a horse behind him, and, looking back, perceived that he was pursued by young Bucklaw, who
had been delayed a few minutes in the pursuit by the irresistable temptation of giving the
hostler at the Tod's Den some recipe for treating the lame horse. This brief delay he had made
up by hard galloping, and now overtook the Master where the road traversed a waste moor. "Halt,
sir," cried Bucklaw; "I am no political agent--no Captain Craigengelt, whose life is too important
to be hazarded in defence of his honour. I am Frank Hayston of Bucklaw, and no man injures
me by word, deed, sign, or look, but he must render me an account of it."

"This is all very well, Mr. Hayston of Bucklaw," replied the Master of Ravenswood, in a tone
the most calm and indifferent; "but I have no quarrel with you, and desire to have none. Our
roads homeward, as well as our roads through life, lie in different directions; there is no
occasion for us crossing each other."

"Is there not?" said Bucklaw, impetuously. "By Heaven! but I say that there is, though: you
called us intriguing adventurers."

"Be correct in your recollection, Mr. Hayston; it was to your companion only I applied that
epithet, and you know him to be no better."

"And what then? He was my companion for the time, and no man shall insult my companion, right
or wrong, while he is in my company."

"Then, Mr. Hayston," replied Ravenswood, with the same composure, "you should choose your society
better, or you are like to have much work in your capacity of their champion. Go home, sir;
sleep, and have more reason in your wrath to-morrow."

"Not so, Master, you have mistaken your man; high airs and wise saws shall not carry it off
thus. Besides, you termed me bully, and you shall retract the word before we part."

"Faith, scarcely," said Ravenswood, "unless you show me better reason for thinking myself mistaken
than you are now producing."

"Then, Master," said Bucklaw, "though I should be sorry to offer it to a man of your quality,
if you will not justify your incivility, or retract it, or name a place of meeting, you must
here undergo the hard word and the hard blow."

"Neither will be necessary," said Ravenswood; "I am satisfied with what I have done to avoid
an affair with you. If you are serious, this place will serve as well as another."

"Dismount then, and draw," said Bucklaw, setting him an example. "I always thought and said
you were a pretty man; I should be sorry to report you otherwise."

"You shall have no reason, sir," said Ravenswood, alighting, and putting himself into a posture
of defence.

Their swords crossed, and the combat commenced with great spirit on the part of Bucklaw, who
was well accustomed to affairs of the kind, and distinguished by address and dexterity at his
weapon. In the present case, however, he did not use his skill to advantage; for, having lost
temper at the cool and contemptuous manner in which the Master of Ravenswood had long refused,
and at length granted, him satisfaction, and urged by his impatience, he adopted the part of
an assailant with inconsiderate eagerness. The Master, with equal skill, and much greater composure,
remained chiefly on the defensive, and even declined to avail himself of one or two advantages
afforded him by the eagerness of his adversary. At length, in a desperate lunge, which he followed
with an attempt to close, Bucklaw's foot slipped, and he fell on the short grassy turf on which
they were fighting. "Take your life, sir," said the Master of Ravenswood, "and mend it if you can."

"It would be but a cobbled piece of work, I fear," said Bucklaw, rising slowly and gathering
up his sword, much less disconcerted with the issue of the combat than could have been expected
from the impetuosity of his temper. "I thank you for my life, Master," he pursued. "There is
my hand; I bear no ill-will to you, either for my bad luck or your better swordsmanship."

The Master looked steadily at him for an instant, then extended his hand to him. "Bucklaw,"
he said, "you are a generous fellow, and I have done you wrong. I heartily ask your pardon
for the expression which offended you; it was hastily and incautiously uttered, and I am convinced
it is totally misapplied."

"Are you indeed, Master?" said Bucklaw, his face resuming at once its natural expression of
light-hearted carelessness and audacity; "that is more than I expected of you; for, Master,
men say you are not ready to retract your opinion and your language."

"Not when I have well considered them," said the Master.

"Then you are a little wiser than I am, for I always give my friend satisfaction first, and
explanation afterwards. If one of us falls, all accounts are settled; if not, men are never
so ready for peace as after war. But what does that bawling brat of a boy want?" said Bucklaw.
"I wish to Heaven he had come a few minutes sooner! and yet it must have been ended some time,
and perhaps this way is as well as any other."

As he spoke, the boy he mentioned came up, cudgelling an ass, on which he was mounted, to the
top of its speed, and sending, like one of Ossian's heroes, his voice before him: "Gentlemen--gentlemen,
save yourselves! for the gudewife bade us tell ye there were folk in her house had taen Captain
Craigengelt, and were seeking for Bucklaw, and that ye behoved to ride for it." "By my faith,
and that's very true, my man" said Bucklaw; "and there's a silver sixpence for your news, and
I would give any man twice as much would tell me which way I should ride."

"That will I, Bucklaw," said Ravenswood; "ride home to Wolf's Crag with me. There are places
in the old tower where you might lie hid, were a thousand men to seek you."

"But that will bring you into trouble yourself, Master; and unless you be in the Jacobite scrape
already, it is quite needless for me to drag you in."

"Not a whit; I have nothing to fear."

"Then I will ride with you blythely, for, to say the truth, I do not know the rendezvous that
Craigie was to guide us to this night; and I am sure that, if he is taken, he will tell all
the truth of me, and twenty lies of you, in order to save himself from the withie."

They mounted and rode off in company accordingly, striking off the ordinary road, and holding
their way by wild moorish unfrequented paths, with which the gentlemen were well acquainted
from the exercise of the chase, but through which others would have had much difficulty in
tracing their course. They rode for some time in silence, making such haste as the condition
of Ravenswood's horse permitted, until night having gradually closed around them, they discontinued
their speed, both from the difficulty of discovering their path, and from the hope that they
were beyond the reach of pursuit or observation.

"And now that we have drawn bridle a bit," said Bucklaw, "I would fain ask you a question, Master."

"Ask and welcome," said Ravenswood, "but forgive not answering it, unless I think proper."

"Well, it is simply this," answered his late antagonist "What, in the name of old Sathan, could
make you, who stand so highly on your reputation, think for a moment of drawing up with such
a rogue as Craigengelt, and such a scapegrace as folk call Bucklaw?"

"Simply, because I was desperate, and sought desperate associates."

"And what made you break off from us at the nearest?" again demanded Bucklaw.

"Because I had changed my mind," said the Master, "and renounced my enterprise, at least for
the present. And now that I have answered your questions fairly and frankly, tell me what makes
you associate with Craigengelt, so much beneath you both in birth and in spirit?"

"In plain terms," answered Bucklaw, "because I am a fool, who have gambled away my land in
thse times. My grand-aunt, Lady Girnington, has taen a new tack of life, I think, and I could
only hope to get something by a change of government. Craigie was a sort of gambling acquaintance;
he saw my condition, and, as the devil is always at one's elbow, told me fifty lies about his
credentials from Versailles, and his interest at Saint Germains, promised me a captain's commission
at Paris, and I have been ass enough to put my thumb under his belt. I dare say, by this time,
he has told a dozen pretty stories of me to the government. And this is what I have got by
wine, women, and dice, cocks, dogs, and horses."

"Yes, Bucklaw," said the Master, "you have indeed nourished in your bosom the snakes that are
now stinging you."

"That's home as well as true, Master," replied his companion; "but, by your leave, you have
nursed in your bosom one great goodly snake that has swallowed all the rest, and is as sure
to devour you as my half-dozen are to make a meal on all that's left of Bucklaw, which is but
what lies between bonnet and boot-heel."

"I must not," answered the Master of Ravenswood, "challenge the freedom of speech in which
I have set example. What, to speak without a metaphor, do you call this monstrous passion which
you charge me with fostering?"

"Revenge, my good sir--revenge; which, if it be as gentle manlike a sin as wine and wassail,
with their et coeteras, is equally unchristian, and not so bloodless. It is better breaking
a park-pale to watch a doe or damsel than to shoot an old man."

"I deny the purpose," said the Master of Ravenswood. "On my soul, I had no such intention;
I meant but to confront the oppressor ere I left my native land, and upbraid him with his tyranny
and its consequences. I would have stated my wrongs so that they would have shaken his soul
within him."

"Yes," answered Bucklaw, "and he would have collared you, and cried 'help,' and then you would
have shaken the soul OUT of him, I suppose. Your very look and manner would have frightened
the old man to death."

"Consider the provocation," answered Ravenswood--"consider the ruin and death procured and
caused by his hard-hearted cruelty--an ancient house destroyed, an affectionate father murdered!
Why, in our old Scottish days, he that sat quiet under such wrongs would have been held neither
fit to back a friend nor face a foe."

"Well, Master, I am glad to see that the devil deals as cunningly with other folk as he deals
with me; for whenever I am about to commit any folly, he persuades me it is the most necessary,
gallant, gentlemanlike thing on earth, and I am up to saddlegirths in the bog before I see
that the ground is soft. And you, Master, might have turned out a murd----a homicide, just
out of pure respect for your father's memory."

"There is more sense in your language, Bucklaw," replied the Master, "than might have been
expected from your conduct. It is too true, our vices steal upon us in forms outwardly as fair
as those of the demons whom the superstitious represent as intriguing with the human race,
and are not discovered in their native hideousness until we have clasped them in our arms."

"But we may throw them from us, though," said Bucklaw, "and that is what I shall think of doing
one of these days--that is, when old Lady Girnington dies."

"Did you ever hear the expression of the English divine?" said Ravenswood--"'Hell is paved
with good intentions,'--as much as to say, they are more often formed than executed."

"Well," replied Bucklaw, "but I will begin this blessed night, and have determined not to drink
above one quart of wine, unless your claret be of extraordinary quality."

"You will find little to tempt you at Wolf's Crag," said the Master. "I know not that I can
promise you more than the shelter of my roof; all, and more than all, our stock of wine and
provisions was exhausted at the late occasion."

"Long may it be ere provision is needed for the like purpose," answered Bucklaw; "but you should
not drink up the last flask at a dirge; there is ill luck in that."

"There is ill luck, I think, in whatever belongs to me," said Ravenswood. "But yonder is Wolf's
Crag, and whatever it still contains is at your service."

The roar of the sea had long announced their approach to the cliffs, on the summit of which,
like the nest of some sea-eagle, the founder of the fortalice had perched his eyrie. The pale
moon, which had hitherto been contending with flitting clouds, now shone out, and gave them
a view of the solitary and naked tower, situated on a projecting cliff that beetled on the
German Ocean. On three sides the rock was precipitous; on the fourth, which was that towards
the land, it had been originally fenced by an artificial ditch and drawbridge, but the latter
was broken down and ruinous, and the former had been in part filled up, so as to allow passage
for a horseman into the narrow courtyard, encircled on two sides with low offices and stables,
partly ruinous, and closed on the landward front by a low embattled wall, while the remaining
side of the quadrangle was occupied by the tower itself, which, tall and narrow, and built
of a greyish stone, stood glimmering in the moonlight, like the sheeted spectre of some huge
giant. A wilder or more disconsolate dwelling it was perhaps difficult to conceive. The sombrous
and heavy sound of the billows, successively dashing against the rocky beach at a profound
distance beneath, was to the ear what the landscape was to the eye--a symbol of unvaried and
monotonous melancholy, not unmingled with horror.

Although the night was not far advanced, there was no sign of living inhabitant about this
forlorn abode, excepting that one, and only one, of the narrow and stanchelled windows which
appeared at irregular heights and distances in the walls of the building showed a small glimmer
of light.

"There," said Ravenswood, "sits the only male domestic that remains to the house of Ravenswood;
and it is well that he does remain there, since otherwise we had little hope to find either
light or fire. But follow me cautiously; the road is narrow, and admits only one horse in front."

In effect, the path led along a kind of isthmus, at the peninsular extremity of which the tower
was situated, with that exclusive attention to strength and security, in preference to every
circumstances of convenience, which dictated to the Scottish barons the choice of their situations,
as well as their style of building.

By adopting the cautious mode of approach recommended by the proprietor of this wild hold,
they entered the courtyard in safety. But it was long ere the efforts of Ravenswood, though
loudly exerted by knocking at the low-browed entrance, and repeated shouts to Caleb to open
the gate and admit them, received any answer.

"The old man must be departed," he began to say, "or fallen into some fit; for the noise I
have made would have waked the seven sleepers."

At length a timid and hesitating voice replied: "Master--Master of Ravenswood, is it you?"

"Yes, it is I, Caleb; open the door quickly."

"But it is you in very blood and body? For I would sooner face fifty deevils as my master's
ghaist, or even his wraith; wherefore, aroint ye, if ye were ten times my master, unless ye
come in bodily shape, lith and limb." "It is I, you old fool," answered Ravenswood, "in bodily
shape and alive, save that I am half dead with cold."

The light at the upper window disappeared, and glancing from loophole to loophole in slow succession,
gave intimation that the bearer was in the act of descending, with great deliberation, a winding
staircase occupying one of the turrets which graced the angles of the old tower. The tardiness
of his descent extracted some exclamations of impatience from Ravenswood, and several oaths
from his less patient and more mecurial companion. Caleb again paused ere he unbolted the door,
and once more asked if they were men of mould that demanded entrance at this time of night.

"Were I near you, you old fool," said Bucklaw, "I would give you sufficient proofs of MY bodily
condition."

"Open the gate, Caleb," said his master, in a more soothing tone, partly from his regard to
the ancient and faithful seneschal, partly perhaps because he thought that angry words would
be thrown away, so long as Caleb had a stout iron-clenched oaken door betwixt his person and
the speakers.

At length Caleb, with a trembling hand, undid the bars, opened the heavy door, and stood before
them, exhibiting his thin grey hairs, bald forehead, and sharp high features, illuminated by
a quivering lamp which he held in one hand, while he shaded and protected its flame with the
other. The timorous, courteous glance which he threw around him, the effect of the partial
light upon his white hair and illumined features, might have made a good painting; but our
travellers were too impatient for security against the rising storm to permit them to indulge
themselves in studying the picturesque. "Is it you, my dear master?--is it you yourself, indeed?"
exclaimed the old domestic. "I am wae ye suld hae stude waiting at your ain gate; but wha wad
hae thought o' seeing ye sae sune, and a strange gentleman with a--(Here he exclaimed apart,
as it were, and to some inmate of the tower, in a voice not meant to be heard by those in the
court)--Mysie--Mysie, woman! stir for dear life, and get the fire mended; take the auld three-legged
stool, or ony thing that's readiest that will make a lowe. I doubt we are but puirly provided,
no expecting ye this some months, when doubtless ye was hae been received conform till your
rank, as gude right is; but natheless----"

"Natheless, Caleb," said the Master, "we must have our horses put up, and ourselves too, the
best way we can. I hope you are not sorry to see me sooner than you expected?"

"Sorry, my lord! I am sure ye sall aye be my lord wi' honest folk, as your noble ancestors
hae been these three hundred years, and never asked a Whig's leave. Sorry to see the Lord of
Ravenswood at ane o' his ain castles! (Then again apart to his unseen associate behind the
screen) Mysie, kill the brood-hen without thinking twice on it; let them care that come ahint.
No to say it's our best dwelling," he added, turning to Bucklaw; "but just a strength for the
Lord of Ravenswood to flee until--that is, no to FLEE, but to retreat until in troublous times,
like the present, when it was ill convenient for him to live farther in the country in ony
of his better and mair principal manors; but, for its antiquity, maist folk think that the
outside of Wolf's Crag is worthy of a large perusal."

"And you are determined we shall have time to make it," said Ravenswood, somewhat amused with
the shifts the old man used to detain them without doors until his confederate Mysie had made
her preparations within.

"Oh, never mind the outside of the house, my good friend," said Bucklaw; "let's see the inside,
and let our horses see the stable, that's all." "Oh yes, sir--ay, sir--unquestionably, sir--my
lord and ony of his honourable companions----"

"But our horses, my friend--our horses; they will be dead-founded by standing here in the cold
after riding hard, and mine is too good to be spoiled; therefore, once more, our horses!" exclaimed
Bucklaw.

"True--ay--your horses--yes--I will call the grooms"; and sturdily did Caleb roar till the
old tower rang again: "John--William--Saunders! The lads are gane out, or sleeping," he observed,
after pausing for an answer, which he knew that he had no human chance of receiving. "A' gaes
wrang when the Master's out-bye; but I'll take care o' your cattle mysell."

"I think you had better," said Ravenswood, "otherwise I see little chance of their being attended
to at all."

"Whisht, my lord--whisht, for God's sake," said Caleb, in an imploring tone, and apart to his
master; "if ye dinna regard your ain credit, think on mine; we'll hae hard eneugh wark to make
a decent night o't, wi' a' the lees I can tell."

"Well, well, never mind," said his master; "go to the stable. There is hay and corn, I trust?"

"Ou ay, plenty of hay and corn"; this was uttered boldly and aloud, and, in a lower tone, "there
was some half fous o' aits, and some taits o' meadow-hay, left after the burial."

"Very well," said Ravenswood, taking the lamp from his domestic's unwilling hand, "I will show
the stranger upstairs myself."

"I canna think o' that, my lord; if ye wad but have five minutes, or ten minutes, or, at maist,
a quarter of an hour's patience, and look at the fine moonlight prospect of the Bass and North
Berwick Law till I sort the horses, I would marshal ye up, as reason is ye suld be marshalled,
your lordship and your honourable visitor. And I hae lockit up the siller candlesticks, and
the lamp is not fit----"

"It will do very well in the mean time," said Ravenswood, "and you will have no difficulty
for want of light in the stable, for, if I recollect, half the roof is off."

"Very true, my lord," replied the trusty adherent, and with ready wit instantly added, "and
the lazy sclater loons have never come to put it on a' this while, your lordship."

"If I were disposed to jest at the calamities of my house," said Ravenswood, as he led the
way upstairs, "poor old Caleb would furnish me with ample means. His passion consists in representing
things about our miserable menage, not as they are, but as, in his opinion, they ought to be;
and, to say the truth, I have been often diverted with the poor wretch's expedients to supply
what he though was essential for the credit of the family, and his still more generous apologies
for the want of those articles for which his ingenuity could discover no substitute. But though
the tower is none of the largest, I shall have some trouble without him to find the apartment
in which there is a fire."

As he spoke thus, he opened the door of the hall. "Here, at least," he said, "there is neither
hearth nor harbour."

It was indeed a scene of desolation. A large vaulted room, the beams of which, combined like
those of Westminster Hall, were rudely carved at the extremities, remained nearly in the situation
in which it had been left after the entertainment at at Allan Lord Ravenswood's funeral. Overturned
pitchers, and black-jacks, and pewter stoups, and flagons still cumbered the large oaken table;
glasses, those more perishable implements of conviviality, many of which had been voluntarily
sacrificed by the guests in their enthusiastic pledges to favourite toasts, strewed the stone
floor with their fragments. As for the articles of plate, lent for the purpose by friends and
kinsfolk, those had been carefully withdrawn so soon as the ostentatious display of festivity,
equally unnecessary and strangely timed, had been made and ended. Nothing, in short, remained
that indicated wealth; all the signs were those of recent wastefulness and present desolation.
The black cloth hangings, which, on the late mournful occasion, replaced the tattered moth-eaten
tapestries, had been partly pulled down, and, dangling from the wall in irregular festoons,
disclosed the rough stonework of the building, unsmoothed either by plaster or the chisel.
The seats thrown down, or left in disorder, intimated the careless confusion which had concluded
the mournful revel. "This room," said Ravenswood, holding up the lamp--"this room, Mr. Hayston,
was riotous when it should have been sad; it is a just retribution that it should now be sad
when it ought to be cheerful."

They left this disconsolate apartment, and went upstairs, where, after opening one or two doors
in vain, Ravenswood led the way into a little matted ante-room, in which, to their great joy,
they found a tolerably good fire, which Mysie, by some such expedient as Caleb had suggested,
had supplied with a reasonable quantity of fuel. Glad at the heart to see more of comfort than
the castle had yet seemed to offer, Bucklaw rubbed his hands heartily over the fire, and now
listened with more complacency to the apologies which the Master of Ravenswood offered. "Comfort,"
he said, "I cannot provide for you, for I have it not for myself; it is long since these walls
have known it, if, indeed, they were ever acquainted with it. Shelter and safety, I think,
I can promise you."

"Excellent matters, Master," replied Bucklaw, "and, with a mouthful of food and wine, positively
all I can require tonight."

"I fear," said the Master, "your supper will be a poor one; I hear the matter in discussion
betwixt Caleb and Mysie. Poor Balderstone is something deaf, amongst his other accomplishments,
so that much of what he means should be spoken aside is overheard by the whole audience, and
especially by those from whom he is most anxious to conceal his private manoeuvres. Hark!"

They listened, and heard the old domestic's voice in conversation with Mysie to the following
effect:

"Just mak the best o't--make the besto't, woman; it's easy to put a fair face on ony thing."

"But the auld brood-hen? She'll be as teugh as bow-strings and bend-leather!"

"Say ye made a mistake--say ye made a mistake, Mysie," replied the faithful seneschal, in a
soothing and undertoned voice; "tak it a' on yoursell; never let the credit o' the house suffer."

"But the brood-hen," remonstrated Mysie--"ou, she's sitting some gate aneath the dais in the
hall, and I am feared to gae in in the dark for the dogle; and if I didna see the bogle, I
could as ill see the hen, for it's pit-mirk, and there's no another light in the house, save
that very blessed lamp whilk the Master has in his ain hand. And if I had the hen, she's to
pu', and to draw, and to dress; how can I do that, and them sitting by the only fire we have?"

"Weel, weel, Mysie," said the butler, "bide ye there a wee, and I'll try to get the lamp wiled
away frae them."

Accordingly, Caleb Balderstone entered the apartment, little aware that so much of his by-play
had been audible there. "Well, Caleb, my old friend, is there any chance of supper?" said the
Master of Ravenswood.

"CHANCE of supper, your lordship?" said Caleb, with an emphasis of strong scorn at the implied
doubt. "How should there be ony question of that, and us in your lordship's house? Chance of
supper, indeed! But ye'll no be for butcher-meat? There's walth o' fat poultry, ready either
for spit or brander. The fat capon, Mysie!" he added, calling out as boldly as if such a thing
had been in existence.

"Quite unnecessary," said Bucklaw, who deemed himself bound in courtesy to relieve some part
of the anxious butler's perplexity, "if you have anything cold, or a morsel of bread."

"The best of bannocks!" exclaimed Caleb, much relieve; "and, for cauld meat, a' that we hae
is cauld eneugh,--how-beit, maist of the cauld meat and pastry was gien to the poor folk after
the ceremony of interment, as gude reason was; nevertheless----"

"Come, Caleb," said the Master of Ravenswood, "I must cut this matter short. This is the young
Laird of Bucklaw; he is under hiding, and therefore, you know----"

"He'll be nae nicer than your lordship's honour, I'se warrant," answered Caleb, cheerfully,
with a nod of intelligence; "I am sorry that the gentleman is under distress, but I am blythe
that he canna say muckle agane our housekeeping, for I believe his ain pinches may matach ours;
no that we are pinched, thank God," he added, retracting the admission which he had made in
his first burst of joy, "but nae doubt we are waur aff than we hae been, or suld be. And for
eating--what signifies telling a lee? there's just the hinder end of the mutton-ham that has
been but three times on the table, and the nearer the bane the sweeter, as your honours weel
ken; and--there's the heel of the ewe-milk kebbuck, wi' a bit of nice butter, and--and--that's
a' that's to trust to." And with great alacrity he produced his slender stock of provisions,
and placed them with much formality upon a small round table betwixt the two gentlemen, who
were not deterred either by the homely quality or limited quantity of the repast from doing
it full justice. Caleb in the mean while waited on them with grave officiousness, as if anxious
to make up, by his own respectful assiduity, for the want of all other attendance.

But, alas! how little on such occasions can form, however anxiously and scrupulously observed,
supply the lack of substantial fare! Bucklaw, who had eagerly eaten a considerable portion
of the thrice-sacked mutton-ham, now began to demand ale.

"I wadna just presume to recommend our ale," said Caleb; "the maut was ill made, and there
was awfu' thunner last week; but siccan water as the Tower well has ye'll seldome see, Bucklaw,
and that I'se engage for."

"But if your ale is bad, you can let us have some wine," said Bucklaw, making a grimace at
the mention of the pure element which Caleb so earnestly recommended.

"Wine!" answered Caleb, undauntedly, "eneugh of wine! It was but twa days syne--wae's me for
the cause--there was as much wine drunk in this house as would have floated a pinnace. There
never was lack of wine at Wolf's Crag."

"Do fetch us some then," said the master, "instead of talking about it." And Caleb boldly departed.

Every expended butt in the old cellar did he set a-tilt, and shake with the desperate expectation
of collecting enough of the grounds of claret to fill the large pewter measure which he carred
in his hand. Alas! each had been too devoutly drained; and, with all the squeezing and manoeuvring
which his craft as a butler suggested, he could only collect about half a quart that seemed
presentable. Still, however, Caleb was too good a general to renounce the field without a strategem
to cover his retreat. He undauntedly threw down an empty flagon, as if he had stumbled at the
entrance of the apartment, called upon Mysie to wipe up the wine that had never been spilt,
and placing the other vessel on the table, hoped there was still enough left for their honours.
There was indeed; for even Bucklaw, a sworn friend to the grape, found no encouragement to
renew his first attack upon the vintage of Wolf's Crag, but contented himself, however reluctantly,
with a draught of fair water. Arrangements were now made for his repose; and as the secret
chamber was assigned for this purpose, it furnished Caleb with a first-rate and most plausible
apology for all deficiencies of furniture, bedding, etc.

"For wha," said he, "would have thought of the secret chaumer being needed? It has not been
used since the time of the Gowrie Conspiracy, and I durst never let a woman ken of the entrance
to it, or your honour will allow that it wad not hae been a secret chaumer lang."

CHAPTER VIII.

     The hearth in hall was black and dead,
     No board was dight in bower within,
     Nor merry bowl nor welcome bed;
     "Here's sorry cheer," quoth the Heir of Linne.

     Old Ballad

THE feelings of the prodigal Heir of Linne, as expressed in that excellent old song, when,
after dissipating his whole fortune, he found himself the deserted inhabitant of "the lonely
lodge," might perhaps have some resemblance to those of the Master of Ravenswood in his deserted
mansion of Wolf's Crag. The Master, however, had this advantage over the spendthrift in the
legend, that, if he was in similar distress, he could not impute it to his own imprudence.
His misery had been bequeathed to him by his father, and, joined to his high blood, and to
a title which the courteous might give or the churlish withhold at their pleasure, it was the
whole inheritance he had derived from his ancestry. Perhaps this melancholy yet consolatory
reflection crossed the mind of the unfortunate young nobleman with a breathing of comfort.
Favourable to calm reflection, as well as to the Muses, the morning, while it dispelled the
shades of night, had a composing and sedative effect upon the stormy passions by which the
Master of Ravenswood had been agitated on the preceding day. He now felt himself able to analyse
the different feelings by which he was agitated, and much resolved to combat and to subdue
them. The morning, which had arisen calm and bright, gave a pleasant effect even to the waste
moorland view which was seen from the castle on looking to the landward; and the glorious ocean,
crisped with a thousand rippling waves of silver, extended on the other side, in awful yet
complacent majesty, to the verge of the horizon. With such scenes of calm sublimity the human
heart sympathises even in its most disturbed moods, and deeds of honour and virtue are inspired
by their majestic influence. To seek out Bucklaw in the retreat which he had afforded him,
was the first occupation of the Master, after he had performed, with a scrutiny unusually severe,
the important task of self-examination. "How now, Bucklaw?" was his morning's salutation--"how
like you the couch in which the exiled Earl of Angus once slept in security, when he was pursued
by the full energy of a king's resentment?"

"Umph!" returned the sleeper awakened; "I have little to complain of where so great a man was
quartered before me, only the mattress was of the hardest, the vault somewhat damp, the rats
rather more mutinous than I would have expected from the state of Caleb's larder; and if there
had been shutters to that grated window, or a curtain to the bed, I should think it, upon the
whole, an improvement in your accommodations."

"It is, to be sure, forlorn enough," said the Master, looking around the small vault; "but
if you will rise and leave it, Caleb will endeavour to find you a better breakfast than your
supper of last night."

"Pray, let it be no better," said Bucklaw, getting up, and endeavouring to dress himself as
well as the obscurity of the place would permit--"let it, I say, be no better, if you mean
me to preserve in my proposed reformation. The very recollection of Caleb's beverage has done
more to suppress my longing to open the day with a morning draught than twenty sermons would
have done. And you, master, have you been able to give battle valiantly to your bosom-snake?
You see I am in the way of smothering my vipers one by one."

"I have commenced the battle, at least, Bucklaw, adn I have had a fair vision of an angel who
descended to my assistance," replied the Master.

"Woe's me!" said his guest, "no vision can I expect, unless my aunt, Lady Grinington, should
betake herself to the tomb; and then it would be the substance of her heritage rather than
the appearance of her phantom that I should consider as the support of my good resolutions.
But this same breakfast, Master--does the deer that is to make the pasty run yet on foot, as
the ballad has it?"

"I will inquire into that matter," said his entertainer; and, leaving the apartment, he went
in search of Caleb, whom, after some difficulty, he found in an obscure sort of dungeon, which
had been in former times the buttery of the castle. Here the old man was employed busily in
the doubtful task of burnishing a pewter flagon until it should take the hue and semblance
of silver-plate. "I think it may do--I think it might pass, if they winna bring it ower muckle
in the light o' the window!" were the ejaculations which he muttered from time to time, as
if to encourage himself in his undertaking, when he was interrupted by the voice of his master.

"Take this," said the Master of Ravenswood, "and get what is necessary for the family." And
with these words he gave to the old butler the purse which had on the preceding evening so
narrowly escaped the fangs of Craigengelt.

The old man shook his silvery and thin locks, and looked with an expression of the most heartfelt
anguish at his master as he weighed in his hand the slender treasure, and said in a sorrowful
voice, "And is this a' that's left?"

"All that is left at present," said the Master, affecting more cheerfulness than perhaps he
really felt, "is just the green purse and the wee pickle gowd, as the old song says; but we
shall do better one day, Caleb."

"Before that day domes," said Caleb, "I doubt there will be an end of an auld sang, and an
auld serving-man to boot. But it disna become me to speak that gate to your honour, adn you
looking sae pale. Tak back the purse, and keep it to be making a show before company; for if
your honour would just take a bidding, adn be whiles taking it out afore folk and putting it
up again, there's naebody would refuse us trust, for a' that's come and gane yet."

"But, Caleb," said the Master, "I still intend to leave this country very soon, and desire
to do so with the reputation of an honest man, leaving no debty behind me, at last of my own
contracting."

"And gude right ye suld gang away as a true man, and so ye shall; for auld Caleb can tak the
wyte of whatever is taen on for the house, and then it will be a' just ae man's burden; and
I will live just as weel in the tolbooth as out of it, and the credit of the family will be
a' safe and sound."

The Master endeavoured, in vain, to make Caleb comprehend that the butler's incurring the responsibility
of debts in his own person would rather add to than remove the objections which he had to their
being contracted. He spoke to a premier too busy in devising ways and means to puzzle himself
with refuting the arguments offered against their justice or expediency.

"There's Eppie Sma'trash will trust us for ale," said Caleb to himself--"she has lived a' her
life under the family--and maybe wi' a soup brandy; I canna say for wine--she is but a lone
woman, and gets her claret by a runlet at a time; but I'll work a wee drap out o' her by fair
means or foul. For doos, there's the doocot; there will be poultry amang the tenants, though
Luckie Chirnside says she has paid the kain twice ower. We'll mak shift, an it like your honour--we'll
mak shift; keep your heart abune, for the house sall haud its credit as lang as auld Caleb
is to the fore."

The entertainment which the old man's exertions of various kinds enabled him to present to
the young gentlemen for three or four days was certainly of no splendid description, but it
may readily be believed it was set before no critical guests; and even the distresses, excuses,
evasions, and shifts of Caleb afforded amusement to the young men, and added a sort fo interest
to the scrambling and irregular style of their table. They had indeed occasion to seize on
every circumstance that might serve to diversify or enliven time, which otherwise passed away
so heavily.

Bucklaw, shut out from his usual field-sports and joyous carouses by the necessity of remaining
concealed within the walls of the castle, became a joyless and uninteresting companion. When
the Master of Ravenswood would no longer fence or play at shovel-board; when he himself had
polished to the extremity the coat of his palfrey with brush, curry comb, and hair-cloth; when
he had seen him eat his provender, and gently lie down in his stall, he could hardly help envying
the animal's apparent acquiescence in a life so monotonous. "The stupid brute," he said, "thinks
neither of the race-ground or the hunting-field, or his green paddock at Bucklaw, but enjoys
himself as comfortably when haltered to the rack in this ruinous vault, as if he had been foaled
in it; and, I who have the freedom of a prisoner at large, to range through the dungeons of
this wretched old tower, can hardly, betwixt whistling and sleeping, contrive to pass away
the hour till dinner-time."

And with this disconsolate reflection, he wended his way to the bartizan or battlements of
the tower, to watch what objects might appear on the distant moor, or to pelt, with pebbles
and pieces of lime, the sea-mews and cormorants which established themselves incautiously within
the reach of an idle young man.

Ravenswood, with a mind incalculably deeper and more powerful than that of his companion, had
his own anxious subjects of reflection, which wrought for him the same unhappiness that sheer
enui and want of occupation inflicted on his companion. The first sight of Lucy Ashton had
been less impressive than her image proved to be upon reflection. As the depth and violence
of that revengeful passion by which he had been actuated in seeking an interview with the father
began to abate by degrees, he looked back on his conduct towards the daughter as harsh and
unworthy towards a female of rank and beauty. Her looks of grateful acknowledgment, her words
of affectionate courtesy, had been repelled with something which approached to disdain; and
if the Master of Ravenswood had sustained wrongs at the hand of Sir William Ashton, his conscience
told him they had been unhandsomely resented towards his daughter. When his thoughts took this
turn of self-reproach, the recollection of Lucy Ashton's beautiful features, rendered yet more
interesting by the circumstances in which their meeting had taken place, made an impression
upon his mind at once soothing and painful. The sweetness of her voice, the delicacy of her
expressions, the vivid glow of her filial affection, embittered his regret at having repulsed
her gratitude with rudeness, while, at the same time, they placed before his imagination a
picture of the most seducing sweetness.

Even young Ravenswood's strength of moral feeling and rectitude of purpose at once increased
the danger of cherishing these recollections, and the propensity to entertain them. Firmly
resolved as he was to subdue, if possible, the predominating vice in his character, he admitted
with willingness--nay, he summoned up in his imagination--the ideas by which it could be most
powerfully counteracted; and, while he did so, a sense of his own harsh conduct towards the
daughter of his enemy naturally induced him, as if by way of recompense, to invest her with
more of grace and beauty than perhaps she could actually claim.

Had any one at this period told the Master of Ravenswood that he had so lately vowed vengeance
against the whole lineage of him whom he considered, not unjustly, as author of his father's
ruin and death, he might at first have repelled the charge as a foul calumny; yet, upon serious
self-examination, he would have been compelled to admit that it had, at one period, some foundation
in truth, though, according to the present tone of his sentiments, it was difficult to believe
that this had really been the case.

There already existed in his bosom two contradictory passions--a desire to revenge the death
of his father, strangely qualified by admiration of his enemy's daughter. Against the former
feeling he had struggled, until it seemed to him upon the wane; against the latter he used
no means of resistance, for he did not suspect its existence. That this was actually the case
was chiefly evinced by his resuming his resolution to leave Scotland. Yet, though such was
his purpose, he remained day after day at Wolf's Crag, without taking measures for carrying
it into execution. It is true, that he had written to one or two kinsmen who resided in a distant
quarter of Scotland, and particularly to the Marquis of A----, intimating his purpose; and
when pressed upon the subject by Bucklaw, he was wont to allege the necessity of waiting for
their reply, especially that of the Marquis, before taking so decisive a measure.

The Marquis was rich and powerful; and although he was suspected to entertain sentiments unfavourable
to the government established at the Revolution, he had nevertheless address enough to head
a party in the Scottish privy council, connected with the High Church faction in England, and
powerful enough to menace those to whom the Lord Keeper adhered with a probable subversion
of their power. The consulting with a personage of such importance was a plausible excise,
which Ravenswood used to Bucklaw, and probably to himself, for continuing his residence at
Wolf's Crag; and it was rendered yet more so by a general report which began to be current
of a probable change of ministers and measures in the Scottish administration. The rumours,
strongly asserted by some, and as resolutely denied by others, as their wishes or interest
dictated, found their way even to the ruinous Tower of Wolf's Crag, chiefly through the medium
of Caleb, the butler, who, among his other excellences, was an ardent politician, and seldom
made an excursion from the old fortress to the neighbouring village of Wolf's Hope without
bringing back what tidings were current in the vicinity.

But if Bucklaw could not offer any satisfactory objections to the delay of the Master in leaving
Scotland, he did not the less suffer with impatience the state of inaction to which it confined
him; and it was only the ascendency which his new companion had acquired over him that induced
him to submit to a course of life so alien to his habits and inclinations.

"You were wont to be thought a stirring active young fellow, Master," was his frequent remonstrance;
"yet here you seem determined to live on and on like a rat in a hole, with this trifling difference,
that the wiser vermin chooses a hermitage where he can find food at least; but as for us, Caleb's
excuses become longer as his diet turns more spare, and I fear we shall realise the stories
they tell of the slother: we have almost eat up the last green leaf on the plant, and have
nothing left for it but to drop from the tree and break our necks."

"Do not fear it," said Ravenswood; "there is a fate watches for us, and we too have a stake
in the revolution that is now impending, and which already has alarmed many a bosom."

"What fate--what revolution?" inquired his companion. "We have had one revolution too much
already, I think."

Ravenswood interrupted him by putting into his hands a letter.

"Oh," answered Bucklaw, "my dream's out. I thought I heard Caleb this morning pressing some
unfortunate fellow to a drink of cold water, and assuring him it was better for his stomach
in the morning than ale or brandy."

"It was my Lord of A----'s courier," said Ravenswood, "who was doomed to experience his ostentatious
hospitality, which I believe ended in sour beer and herrings. Read, and you will see the news
he has brought us." "I will as fast as I can," said Bucklaw; "but I am no great clerk, nor
does his lordship seem to be the first of scribes."

The reader will peruse in, a few seconds, by the aid our friend Ballantyne's types, what took
Bucklaw a good half hour in perusal, though assisted by the Master of Ravenswood. The tenor
was as follows:

"RIGHT HONOURABLE OUR COUSIN:

"Our hearty commendations premised, these come to assure you of the interest which we take
in your welfare, and in your purpose towards its augmentation. If we have been less active
in showing forth our effective good-will towards you than, as a loving kinsman and blood-relative,
we would willingly have desired, we request that you will impute it to lack fo opportunity
to show our good-liking, not to any coldness of our will. Touching your resolution to travel
in foreign parts, as at this time we hold the same little advisable, in respect that your ill-willers
may, according to the custom of such persons, impute motives for your journey, whereof, although
we know and believe you to be as clear as ourselves, yet natheless their words may find credence
in places where the belief in them may much prejudice you, and which we should see with more
unwillingness and displeasure than with means of remedy.

"Having thus, as becometh our kindred, given you our poor mind on the subject of your journeying
forth of Scotland, we would willingly add reasons of weight, which might materially advantage
you and your father's house, thereby to determine you to abide at Wolf's Crag, until this harvest
season shall be passed over. But what sayeth the proverb, verbum sapienti--a word is more to
him that hath wisdom than a sermon to a fool. And albeit we have written this poor scroll with
our own hand, and are well assured of the fidelity of our messenger, as him that is many ways
bounden to us, yet so it is, that sliddery ways crave wary walking, and that we may not peril
upon paper matters which we would gladly impart to you by word of mouth. Wherefore, it was
our purpose to have prayed you heartily to come to this our barren Highland country to kill
a stag, and to treat of the matters which we are now more painfully inditing to you anent.
But commodity does not serve at present for such our meeting, which, therefore, shall be deferred
until sic time as we may in all mirth rehearse those things whereof we now keep silence. Meantime,
we pray you to think that we are, and will still be, your good kinsman and well-wisher, waiting
but for times of whilk we do, as it were, entertain a twilight prospect, and appear and hope
to be also your effectual well-doer. And in which hope we heartily write ourself,

"Right Honourable,

"Your loving cousin,

"A----. "Given from our poor house of B----," etc.

Superscribed--"For the right honourable, and our honoured kinsman, the Master of Ravenswood--These,
with haste, haste, post haste--ride and run until these be delivered."

"What think you of this epistle, Bucklaw?" said the Master, when his companion had hammered
out all the sense, and almost all the words of which it consisted.

"Truly, that the Marquis's meaning is as great a riddle as his manuscript. He is really in
much need of Wit's Interpreter, or the Complete Letter-Writer, and were I you, I would send
him a copy by the bearer. He writes you very kindly to remain wasting your time and your money
in this vile, stupid, oppressed country, without so much as offering you the countenance and
shelter of his house. In my opinion, he has some scheme in view in which he supposes you can
be useful, and he wishes to keep you at hand, to make use of you when it ripens, reserving
the power of turning you adrift, should his plot fail in the concoction."

"His plot! Then you suppose it is a treasonable business," answered Ravenswood.

"What else can it be?" replied Bucklaw; "the Marquis has been long suspected to have an eye
to Saint Germains."

"He should not engage me rashly in such an adventure," said Ravenswood; "when I recollect the
times of the first and second Charles, and of the last James, truly I see little reason that,
as a man or a patriot, I should draw my sword for their descendants."

"Humph!" replied Bucklaw; "so you have set yourself down to mourn over the crop-eared dogs
whom honest Claver'se treated as they deserved?"

"They first gave the dogs an ill name, and then hanged them," replied Ravenswood. "I hope to
see the day when justice shall be open to Whig and Tory, and when these nicknames shall only
be used among coffee-house politicians, as 'slut' and 'jade' are among apple-women, as cant
terms of idle spite and rancour."

"That will nto be in our days, Master: the iron has entered too deeply into our sides and our
souls."

"It will be, however, one day," replied the Master; "men will not always start at these nicknames
as at a trumpet-sound. As social life is better protected, its comforts will become too dear
to be hazarded without some better reasons than speculative politics."

"It is fine talking," answered Bucklaw; "but my heart is with the old song--

     To see good corn upon the rigs,
     And a gallow built to hang the Whigs,
     And the right restored where the right should be.
     Oh, that is the thing that would wanton me."

"You may sing as loudly as you will, cantabit vacuus----," answered the Master; "but I believe
the Marquis is too wise, at least too wary, to join you in such a burden. I suspect he alludes
to a revolution in the Scottish privy council, rather than in the British kingdoms."

"Oh, confusion to your state tricks!" exclaimed Bucklaw--"your cold calculating manoeuvres,
which old gentlemen in wrought nightcaps and furred gowns execute like so many games at chess,
and displace a treasurer or lord commissioner as they would take a rook or a pawn. Tennis for
my sport, and battle for my earnest! And you, Master, so dep and considerate as you would seem,
you have that within you makes the blood boil faster than suits your present humour of moralising
on political truths. You are one of those wise men who see everything with great composure
till their blood is up, and then--woe to any one who should put them in mind of their own prudential
maxims!" "Perhaps," said Ravenswood, "you read me more rightly than I can myself. But to think
justly will certainly go some length in helping me to act so. But hark! I hear Caleb tolling
the dinner-bell."

"Which he always does with the more sonorous grace in proportion to the meagreness of the cheer
which he has provided," said Bucklaw; "as if that infernal clang and jangle, which will one
day bring the belfry down the cliff, could convert a starved hen into a fat capon, and a blade-bone
of mutton into a haunch of venison."

"I wish we may be so well off as your worst conjectures surmise, Bucklaw, from the extreme
solemnity and ceremony with which Caleb seems to place on the table that solitary covered dish."

"Uncover, Caleb! uncover, for Heaven's sake!" said Bucklaw; "let us have what you can give
us without preface. Why, it stands well enough, man," he continued, addressing impatiently
the ancient butler, who, without reply, kept shifting the dish, until he had at length placed
it with mathematical precision in the very midst of the table.

"What have we got here, Caleb?" inquired the Master in his turn.

"Ahem! sir, ye suld have known before; but his honour the Laird of Bucklaw is so impatient,"
answered Caleb, still holding the dish with one hand and the cover with the other, with evident
reluctance to disclose the contents.

"But what is it, a God's name--not a pair of clean spurs, I hope, in the Border fashion of
old times?"

"Ahem! ahem!" reiterated Caleb, "your honour is pleased to be facetious; natheless, I might
presume to say it was a convenient fashion, and used, as I have heard, in an honourable and
thriving family. But touching your present dinner, I judged that this being St. Magdalen's
[Margaret's] Eve, who was a worthy queen of Scotland in her day, your honours might judge it
decorous, if not altogether to fast, yet only to sustain nature with some slight refection,
as ane saulted herring or the like." And, uncovering the dish, he displayed four of the savoury
fishes which he mentioned, adding, in a subdued tone, "that they were no just common herring
neither, being every ane melters, and sauted with uncommon care by the housekeeper (poor Mysie)
for his honour's especial use."

"Out upon all apologies!" said the Master, "let us eat the herrings, since there is nothing
better to be had; but I begin to think with you, Bucklaw, that we are consuming the last green
leaf, and that, in spite of the Marquis's political machinations, we must positively shift
camp for want of forage, without waiting the issue of them."

CHAPTER IX.

     Ay, and when huntsmen wind the merry horn,
     And from its covert starts the fearful prey,
     Who, warm'd with youth's blood in his swelling veins,
     Would, like a lifeless clod, outstretched lie,
     Shut out from all the fair creation offers?

     Ethwald, Act I. Scene 1.

LIGHT meals procure light slumbers; and therefore it is not surprising that, considering the
fare which Caleb's conscience, or his necessity, assuming, as will sometimes happen, that disguise,
had assigned to the guests of Wolf's Crag, their slumbers should have been short.

In the morning Bucklaw rushed into his host's apartment with a loud halloo, which might have
awaked the dead.

"Up! up! in the name of Heaven! The hunters are out, the only piece of sport I have seen this
month; and you lie here, Master, on a bed that has little to recommend it, except that it may
be something softer than the stone floor of your ancestor's vault."

"I wish," said Ravenswood, raising his head peevishly, "you had forborne so early a jest, Mr.
Hayston; it is really no pleasure to lose the very short repose which I had just begun to enjoy,
after a night spent in thoughts upon fortune far harder than my couch, Bucklaw."

"Pschaw, pshaw!" replied his guest; "get up--get up; the hounds are abroad. I have saddled
the horses myself, for old Caleb was calling for grooms and lackeys, and would never have proceeded
without two hours' apology for the absence of men that were a hundred miles off. Get up, Master;
I say the hounds are out--get up, I say; the hunt is up." And off ran Bucklaw.

"And I say," said the Master, rising slowly, "that nothing can concern me less. Whose hounds
come so near to us?"

"The Honourable Lord Brittlebrains's," answered Caleb, who had followed the impatient Laird
of Bucklaw into his master's bedroom, "and truly I ken nae title they have to be yowling and
howling within the freedoms and immunities of your lordship's right of free forestry."

"Nor I, Caleb," replied Ravenswood, "excepting that they have bought both the lands and the
right of forestry, and may think themselves entitled to exercise the rights they have paid
their money for."

"It may be sae, my lord," replied Caleb; "but it's no gentleman's deed of them to come here
and exercise such-like right, and your lordship living at your ain castle of Wolf's Crag. Lord
Brittlebrains would weel to remember what his folk have been."

"And what we now are," said the Master, with suppressed bitterness of feeling. "But reach me
my cloak, Caleb, and I will indulge Bucklaw with a sight of this chase. It is selfish to sacrifice
my guest's pleasure to my own."

"Sacrifice!" echoed Caleb, in a tone which seemed to imply the total absurdity of his master
making the least concession in deference to any one--"sacrifice, indeed!--but I crave your
honour's pardon, and whilk doublet is it your pleasure to wear?"

"Any one you will, Caleb; my wardrobe, I suppose, is not very extensive."

"Not extensive!" echoed his assistant; "when there is the grey and silver that your lordship
bestowed on Hew Hildebrand, your outrider; and the French velvet that went with my lord your
father--be gracious to him!--my lord your father's auld wardrobe to the puir friends of the
family; and the drap-de-Berry----"

"Which I gave to you, Caleb, and which, I suppose, is the only dress we have any chance to
come at, except that I wore yesterday; pray, hand me that, and say no more about it."

"If your honour has a fancy," replied Caleb, "and doubtless it's a sad-coloured suit, and you
are in mourning; nevertheless, I have never tried on the drap-de-Berry--ill wad it become me--and
your honour having no change of claiths at this present--and it's weel brushed, and as there
are leddies down yonder----"

"Ladies!" said Ravenswood; "and what ladies, pray?"

"What do I ken, your lordship? Looking down at them from the Warden's Tower, I could but see
them glent by wi' their bridles ringing and their feathers fluttering, like the court of Elfland."

"Well, well, Caleb," replied the Master, "help me on with my cloak, and hand me my sword-belt.
What clatter is that in the courtyard?"

"Just Bucklaw bringing out the horses," said Caleb, after a glance through the window, "as
if there werena men eneugh in the castle, or as if I couldna serve the turn of ony o' them
that are out o' the gate."

"Alas! Caleb, we should want little if your ability were equal to your will," replied the Master.

"And I hope your lordship disna want that muckle," said Caleb; "for, considering a' things,
I trust we support the credit of the family as weel as things will permit of,--only Bucklaw
is aye sae frank and sae forward. And there he has brought out your lordship's palfrey, without
the saddle being decored wi' the broidered sumpter-cloth! and I could have brushed it in a minute."

"It is all very well," said his master, escaping from him and descending the narrow and steep
winding staircase which led to the courtyard.

"It MAY be a' very weel," said Caleb, somewhat peevishly; "but if your lordship wad tarry a
bit, I will tell you what will NOT be very weel."

"And what is that?" said Ravenswood, impatiently, but stopping at the same time.

"Why, just that ye suld speer ony gentleman hame to dinner; for I canna mak anither fast on
a feast day, as when I cam ower Bucklaw wi' Queen Margaret; and, to speak truth, if your lordship
wad but please to cast yoursell in the way of dining wi' Lord Bittlebrains, I'se warrand I
wad cast about brawly for the morn; or if, stead o' that, ye wad but dine wi' them at the change-house,
ye might mak your shift for the awing: ye might say ye had forgot your purse, or that the carline
awed ye rent, and that ye wad allow it in the settlement."

"Or any other lie that cam uppermost, I suppose?" said his master. "Good-bye, Caleb; I commend
your care for the honour of the family." And, throwing himself on his horse, he followed Bucklaw,
who, at the manifest risk of his neck, had begun to gallop down the steep path which led from
the Tower as soon as he saw Ravenswood have his foot in the stirrup.

Caleb Balderstone looked anxiously after them, and shook his thin grey locks: "And I trust
they will come to no evil; but they have reached the plain, and folk cannot say but that the
horse are hearty and in spirits." Animated by the natural impetuosity and fire of his temper,
young Bucklaw rushed on with the careless speed of a whirlwind. Ravenswood was scarce more
moderate in his pace, for his was a mind unwillingly roused from contemplative inactivity,
but which, when once put into motion, acquired a spirit of forcible and violent progression.
Neither was his eagerness proportioned in all cases to the motive of impulse, but might be
compared to the sped of a stone, which rushes with like fury down the hill whether it was first
put in motion by the arm of a giant or the hand of a boy. He felt, therefore, in no ordinary
degree, the headlong impulse of the chase, a pastime so natural to youth of all ranks, that
it seems rather to be an inherent passion in our animal nature, which levels all differences
of rank and education, than an acquired habit of rapid exercise.

The repeated bursts of the French horn, which was then always used for the encouragement and
direction of the hounds; the deep, though distant baying of the pack; the half-heard cries
of the huntsmen; the half-seen forms which were discovered, now emerging from glens which crossed
the moor, now sweeping over its surface, now picking their way where it was impeded by morasses;
and, above all, the feeling of his own rapid motion, animated the Master of Ravenswood, at
last for the moment, above the recollections of a more painful nature by which he was surrounded.
The first thing which recalled him to those unpleasing circumstances was feeling that his horse,
notwithstanding all the advantages which he received from his rider's knowledge of the country,
was unable to keep up with the chase. As he drew his bridle up with the bitter feeling that
his poverty excluded him from the favourite recreation of his forefathers, and indeed their
sole employment when not engaged in military pursuits, he was accosted by a well-mounted stranger,
who, unobserved, had kept near him during the earlier part of his career.

"Your horse is blown," said the man, with a complaisance seldom used in a hunting-field. "Might
I crave your honour to make use of mine?"

"Sir," said Ravenswood, more surprised than pleased at such a proposal. "I really do not know
how I have merited such a favour at a stranger's hands."

"Never ask a question about it, Master," said Bucklaw, who, with great unwillingness, had hitherto
reined in his own gallant steed, not to outride his host and entertainer. "Take the goods the
gods provide you, as the great John Dryden says; or stay--here, my friend, lend me that horse;
I see you have been puzzled to rein him up this half-hour. I'll take the devil out of him for
you. Now, Master, do you ride mine, which will carry you like an eagle."

And throwing the rein of his own horse to the Master of Ravenswood, he sprung upon that which
the stranger resigned to him, and continued his career at full speed. "Was ever so thoughtless
a being!" said the Master; "and you, my friend, how could you trust him with your horse?"

"The horse," said the man, "belongs to a person who will make your honour, or any of your honourable
friends, most welcome to him, flesh and fell."

"And the owner's name is----?" asked Ravenswood.

"Your honour must excuse me, you will learn that from himself. If you please to take your friend's
horse, and leave me your galloway, I will meet you after the fall of the stag, for I hear they
are blowing him at bay."

"I believe, my friend, it will be the best way to recover your good horse for you," answered
Ravenswood; and mounting the nag of his friend Bucklaw, he made all the haste in his power
to the spot where the blast of the horn announced that the stag's career was nearly terminated.

These jovial sounds were intermixed with the huntsmen's shouts of "Hyke a Talbot! Hyke a Teviot!
now, boys, now!" and similar cheering halloos of the olden hunting-field, to which the impatient
yelling of the hounds, now close of the object of their pursuit, gave a lively and unremitting
chorus. The straggling riders began now to rally towards the scene of action, collecting from
different points as to a common centre.

Bucklaw kept the start which he had gotten, and arrived first at the spot, where the stag,
incapable of sustaining a more prolonged flight, had turned upon the hounds, and, in the hunter's
phrase, was at bay. With his stately head bent down, his sides white with foam, his eyes strained
betwixt rage and terror, the hunted animal had now in his turn become an object of intimidation
to his pursuers. The hunters came up one by one, and watched an opportunity to assail him with
some advantage, which, in such circumstances, can only be done with caution. The dogs stood
aloof and bayed loudly, intimating at once eagerness and fear, and each of the sportsmen seemed
to expect that his comrade would take upon him the perilous task of assaulting and disabling
the animal. The ground, which was a hollow in the common or moor, afforded little advantage
for approaching the stag unobserved; and general was the shout of triumph when Bucklaw, with
the dexterity proper to an accomplished cavalier of the day, sprang from his horse, and dashing
suddenly and swiftly at the stag, brought him to the ground by a cut on the hind leg with his
short hunting-sword. The pack, rushing in upon their disabled enemy, soon ended his painful
struggles, and solemnised his fall with their clamour; the hunters, with their horns and voices,
whooping and blowing a mort, or death-note, which resounded far over the billows of the adjacent
ocean.

The huntsman then withdrew the hounds from the throttled stag, and on his knee presented his
knife to a fair female form, on a white palfrey, whose terror, or perhaps her compassion, had
till then kept her at some distance. She wore a black silk riding-mask, which was then a common
fashion, as well for preserving the complexion from the sun and rain, as from an idea of decorum,
which did not permit a lady to appear barefaced while engaged in a boisterous sport, and attended
by a promiscuous company. The richness of her dress, however, as well as the mettle and form
of her palfrey, together with the silvan compliment paid to her by the huntsman, pointed her
out to Bucklaw as the principal person in the field. It was not without a feeling of pity,
approaching even to contempt, that this enthusiastic hunter observed her refuse the huntsman's
knife, presented to her for the purpose of making the first incision in the stag's breast,
and thereby discovering the venison. He felt more than half inclined to pay his compliments
to her; but it had been Bucklaw's misfortune, that his habits of life had not rendered him
familiarly acquainted with the higher and better classes of female society, so that, with all
his natural audacity, he felt sheepish and bashful when it became necessary to address a lady
of distinction.

Taking unto himself heart of grace (to use his own phrase), he did at length summon up resolution
enough to give the fair huntress good time of the day, and trust that her sport had answered
her expectation. Her answer was very courteously and modestly expressed, and testified some
gratitude to the gallant cavalier, whose exploit had terminated the chase so adroitly, when
the hounds and huntsmen seemed somewhat at a stand.

"Uds daggers and scabbard, madam," said Bucklaw, whom this observation brought at once upon
his own ground, "there is no difficulty or merit in that matter at all, so that a fellow is
not too much afraid of having a pair of antlers in his guts. I have hunted at force five hundred
times, madam; and I never yet saw the stag at bay, by land or water, but I durst have gone
roundly in on him. It is all use and wont, madam; and I'll tell you, madam, for all that, it
must be done with good heed and caution; and you will do well, madam, to have your hunting-sword
right sharp and double-edged, that you may strike either fore-handed or back-handed, as you
see reason, for a hurt with a buck's horn is a perilous ad somewhat venomous matter."

"I am afraid, sir," said the young lady, and her smile was scarce concealed by her vizard,
"I shall have little use for such careful preparation."

"But the gentleman says very right for all that, my lady," said an old huntsman, who had listened
to Bucklaw's harangue with no small edification; "and I have heard my father say, who was a
forester at the Cabrach, that a wild boar's gaunch is more easily healed than a hurt from the
deer's horn, for so says the old woodman's rhyme--

     If thou be hurt with horn of hart, it brings thee to they bier;
     But tusk of boar shall leeches heal, thereof have lesser fear."

"An I might advise," continued Bucklaw, who was now in his element, and desirous of assuming
the whole management, "as the hounds are surbated and weary, the head of the stag should be
cabaged in order to reward them; and if I may presume to speak, the huntsman, who is to break
up the stag, ought to drink to your good ladyship's health a good lusty bicker of ale, or a
tass of brandy; for if he breaks him up without drinking, the venison will not keep well."

This very agreeable prescription received, as will be readily believed, all acceptation from
the huntsman, who, in requital, offered to bucklaw the compliment of his knife, which the young
lady had declined.

This polite proffer was seconded by his mistress. "I believe, sir," she said, withdrawing herself
from the circle, "that my father, for whose amusement Lord Bittlebrain's hounds have been out
to-day, will readily surrender all care of these matters to a gentleman of your experience."

Then, bending gracefully from her horse, she wished him good morning, and, attended by one
or two domestics, who seemed immediately attached to her service, retired from the scene of
action, to which Bucklaw, too much delighted with an opportunity of displaying his woodcraft
to care about man or woman either, paid little attention; but was soon stript to his doublet,
with tucked-up sleeves, and naked arms up to the elbows in blood and grease, slashing, cutting,
hacking, and hewing, with the precision of Sir Tristrem himself, and wrangling and disputing
with all around him concerning nombles, briskets, flankards, and raven-bones, then usual terms
of the art of hunting, or of butchery, whichever the reader chooses to call it, which are now
probably antiquated.

When Ravenswood, who followed a short pace behind his friend, saw that the stag had fallen,
his temporary ardour for the chase gave way to that feeling of reluctance which he endured
at encountering in his fallen fortunes the gaze whether of equals or inferiors. He reined up
his horse on the top of a gentle eminence, from which he observed the busy and gay scene beneath
him, and heard the whoops of the huntsmen, gaily mingled with the cry of the dogs, and the
neighing and trampling of the horses. But these jovial sounds fell sadly on the ear of the
ruined nobleman. The chase, with all its train of excitations, has ever since feudal times
been accounted the almost exclusive privilege of the aristocracy, and was anciently their chief
employment in times of peace. The sense that he was excluded by his situation from enjoying
the silvan sport, which his rank assigned to him as a special prerogative, and the feeling
that new men were now exercising it over the downs which had been jealously reserved by his
ancestors for their own amusement, while he, the heir of the domain, was fain to hold himself
at a distance from their party, awakened reflections calculated to depress deeply a mind like
Ravenswood's, which was naturally contemplative and melancholy. His pride, however, soon shook
off this feeling of dejection, and it gave way to impatience upon finding that his volatile
friend Bucklaw seemed in no hurry to return with his borrowed steed, which Ravenswood, before
leaving the field, wished to see restored to the obliging owner. As he was about to move towards
the group of assembled huntsmen, he was joined by a horseman, who, like himself, had kept aloof
during the fall of the deer.

This personage seemed stricken in years. He wore a scarlet cloak, buttoning high upon his face,
and his hat was unlooped and slouched, probably by way of defence against the weather. His
horse, a strong and steady palfrey, was calculated for a rider who proposed to witness the
sport of the day rather than to share it. An attendant waited at some distance, and the whole
equipment was that of an elderly gentleman of rank and fashion. He accosted Ravenswood very
politely, but not without some embarrassment.

"You seem a gallant young gentleman, sir," he said, "and yet appear as indifferent to this
brave sport as if you had my load of years on your shoulders."

"I have followed the sport with more spirit on other occasions," replied the Master; "at present,
late events in my family must be my apology; and besides," he added, "I was but indifferently
mounted at the beginning of the sport."

"I think," said the stranger, "one of my attendants had the sense to accommodate your friend
with a horse."

"I was much indebted to his politeness and yours," replied Ravenswood. "My friend is Mr. Hayston
of Bucklaw, whom I dare say you will be sure to find in the thick of the keenest sportsmen.
He will return your servant's horse, and take my pony in exchange; and will add," he concluded,
turning his horse's head from the stranger, "his best acknowledgments to mine for the accommodation."

The Master of Ravenswood, having thus expressed himself, began to move homeward, with the manner
of one who has taken leave of his company. But the stranger was not so to be shaken off. He
turned his horse at the same time, and rode in the same direction, so near to the Master that,
without outriding him, which the formal civility of the time, and the respect due to the stranger's
age and recent civility, would have rendered improper, he could not easily escape from his company.

The stranger did not long remain silent. "This, then," he said, "is the ancient Castle of Wolf's
Crag, often mentioned in the Scottish records," looking to the old tower, then darkening under
the influence of a stormy cloud, that formed its background; for at the distance of a short
mile, the chase, having been circuitous, had brought the hunters nearly back to the point which
they had attained when Ravenswood and Bucklaw had set forward to join them.

Ravenswood answered this observation with a cold and distant assent. "It was, as I have heard,"
continued the stranger, unabashed by his coldness, "one of the most early possessions of the
honourable family of Ravenswood."

"Their earliest possession," answered the Master, "and probably their latest."

"I--I--I should hope not, sir," answered the stranger, clearing his voice with more than one
cough, and making an effort to overcome a certain degree of hesitation; "Scotland knows what
she owes to this ancient family, and remembers their frequent and honourable achievements.
I have little doubt that, were it properly represented to her Majesty that so ancient and noble
a family were subjected to dilapidation--I mean to decay--means might be found, ad re-aedificandum
antiquam domum----"

"I will save you the trouble, sir, of discussing this point farther," interrupted the Master,
haughtily. "I am the heir of that unfortunate house--I am the Master of Ravenswood. And you,
sir, who seem to be a gentleman of fashion and education, must be sensible that the next mortification
after being unhappy is the being loaded with undesired commiseration."

"I beg your pardon, sir," said the elder horseman; "I did not know--I am sensible I ought not
to have mentioned--nothing could be farther from my thoughts than to suppose----"

"There are no apologies necessary, sir," answered Ravenswood, "for here, I suppose, our roads
separate, and I assure you that we part in perfect equanimity on my side."

As speaking these words, he directed his horse's head towards a narrow causeway, the ancient
approach to Wolf's Crag, of which it might be truly said, in the words of the Bard of Hope, that

     Frequented by few was the grass-cover'd road,
     Where the hunter of deer and the warrior trode,
     To his hills that encircle the sea.

But, ere he could disengage himself from his companion, the young lady we have already mentioned
came up to join the stranger, followed by her servants.

"Daughter," said the stranger to the unmasked damsel, "this is the Master of Ravenswood."

It would have been natural that the gentleman should have replied to this introduction; but
there was something in the graceful form and retiring modesty of the female to whom he was
thus presented, which not only prevented him from inquiring to whom, and by whom, the annunciation
had been made, but which even for the time struck him absolutely mute. At this moment the cloud
which had long lowered above the height on which Wolf's Crag is situated, and which now, as
it advanced, spread itself in darker and denser folds both over land and sea, hiding the distant
objects and obscuring those which were nearer, turning the sea to a leaden complexion and the
heath to a darker brown, began now, by one or two distant peals, to announce the thunders with
which it was fraught; while two flashes of lightning, following each other very closely, showed
in the distance the grey turrets of Wolf's Crag, and, more nearly, the rollowing billows of
the ocean, crested suddenly with red and dazzling light.

The horse of the fair huntress showed symptoms of impatience and restiveness, and it became
impossible for Ravenswood, as a man or a gentleman, to leave her abruptly to the case of an
aged father or her menial attendants. He was, or believed himself, obliged in courtesy to take
hold of her bridle, and assist her in managing the unruly animal. While he was thus engaged,
the old gentleman observed that the storm seemed to increase; that they were far from Lord
Bittlebrains's, whose guests they were for the present; and that he would be obliged to the
Master of Ravenswood to point him the way to the nearest place of refuge from the storm. At
the same time he cast a wistful and embarrassed look towards the Tower of Wolf's Crag, which
seemed to render it almost impossible for the owner to avoid offering an old man and a lady,
in such an emergency, the temporary use of his house. Indeed, the condition of the young huntress
made this courtesy indispensable; for, in the course of the services which he rendered, he
could not but perceive that she trembled much, and was extremely agitated, from her apprehensions,
doubtless, of the coming storm.

I know not if the Master of Ravenswood shared her terrors, but he was not entirely free from
something like a similar disorder of nerves, as he observed, "The Tower of Wolf's Crag has
nothing to offer beyond the shelter of its roof, but if that can be acceptable at such a moment----"
he paused, as if the rest of the invitation stuck in his throat. But the old gentleman, his
self-constituted companion, did not allow him to recede from the invitation, which he had rather
suffered to be implied than directly expressed.

"The storm," said the stranger, "must be an apology for waiving ceremony; his daughter's health
was weak, she had suffered much from a recent alarm; he trusted their intrusion on the Master
of Ravenswood's hospitality would not be altogether unpardonable in the circumstances of the
case: his child's safety must be dearer to him than ceremony."

There was no room to retreat. The Master of Ravenswood led the way, continuing to keep hold
of the lady's bridle to prevent her horse from starting at some unexpected explosion of thunder.
He was not so bewildered in his own hurried reflections but that he remarked, that the deadly
paleness which had occupied her neck and temples, and such of her features as the riding-mask
left exposed, gave place to a deep and rosy suffusion; and he felt with embarrassment that
a flush was by tacit sympathy excited in his own cheeks. The stranger, with watchfulness which
he disguised under apprehensions of the safety of his daughter, continued to observe the expression
of the Master's countenance as they ascended the hill to Wolf's Crag. When they stood in front
of that ancient fortress, Ravenswood's emotions were of a very complicated description; and
as he led the way into the rude courtyard, and hallooed to Caleb to give attendance, there
was a tone of sternness, almost of fierceness, which seemed somewhat alien from the courtesies
of one who is receiving honoured guests.

Caleb came; and not the paleness of the fair stranger at the first approach of the thunder,
nor the paleness of any other person, in any other circumstances whatever, equalled that which
overcame the thin cheeks of the disconsolate seneschal when he beheld this accession of guests
to the castle, and reflected that the dinner hour was fast approaching. "Is he daft?" he muttered
to himself;--"is he clean daft a'thegither, to bring lords and leddies, and a host of folk
behint them, and twal o'clock chappit?" Then approaching the Master, he craved pardon for having
permitted the rest of his people to go out to see the hunt, observing, that "They wad never
think of his lordship coming back till mirk night, and that he dreaded they might play the truant."

"Silence, Balderstone!" said Ravenswood, sternly; "your folly is unseasonable. Sir and madam,"
he said, turning to his guests, "this old man, and a yet older and more imbecile female domestic,
form my whole retinue. Our means of refreshing you are more scanty than even so miserable a
retinue, and a dwelling so dilapidated, might seem to promise you; but, such as they may chance
to be, you may command them."

The elder stranger, struck with the ruined and even savage appearance of the Tower, rendered
still more disconsolate by the lowering and gloomy sky, and perhaps not altogether unmoved
by the grave and determined voice in which their host addressed them, looked round him anxiously,
as if he half repented the readiness with which he had accepted the offered hospitality. But
there was now no opportunity of receding from the situation in which he had placed himself.

As for Caleb, he was so utterly stunned by his master's public and unqualified acknowledgment
of the nakedness of the land, that for two minutes he could only mutter within his hebdomadal
beard, which had not felt the razor for six days, "He's daft--clean daft--red wud, and awa'
wit! But deil hae Caleb Balderstone," said he, collecting his powers of invention and resource,
"if the family shall lose credit, if he were as mad as the seven wise masters!" He then boldly
advanced, and in spite of his master's frowns and impatience, gravely asked, "If he should
not serve up some slight refection for the young leddy, and a glass of tokay, or old sack--or----"

"Truce to this ill-timed foolery," said the Master, sternly; "put the horses into the stable,
and interrupt us no more with your absurdities."

"Your honour's pleasure is to be obeyed aboon a' things," said Caleb; "nevertheless, as for
the sack and tokay which it is not your noble guests' pleasure to accept----"

But here the voice of Bucklaw, heard even above the clattering of hoofs and braying of horns
with which it mingled, announced that he was scaling the pathway to the Tower at the head of
the greater part of the gallant hunting train.

"The deil be in me," said Caleb, taking heart in spite of this new invasion of Philistines,
"if they shall beat me yet! The hellicat ne'er-do-weel! to bring such a crew here, that will
expect to find brandy as plenty as ditch-water, and he kenning sae absolutely the case in whilk
we stand for the present! But I trow, could I get rid of thae gaping gowks of flunkies that
hae won into the courtyard at the back of their betters, as mony a man gets preferment, I could
make a' right yet."

The measures which he took to execute this dauntless resolution, the reader shall learn in
the next chapter.

     COLERIDGE'S Rime of the Ancient Mariner.

HAYSTON of Bucklaw was one of the thoughtless class who never hesitate between their friend
and their jest. When it was announced that the principal persons of the chase had taken their
route towards Wolf's Crag, the huntsmen, as a point of civility, offered to transfer the venison
to that mansion; a proffer which was readily accepted by Bucklaw, who thought much of the astonishment
which their arrival in full body would occasion poor old Caleb Balderstone, and very little
of the dilemma to which he was about to expose his friend the Master, so ill circumstanced
to receive such a party. But in old Caleb he had to do with a crafty and alert antagonist,
prompt at supplying, upon all emergencies, evasions and excuses suitable, as he thought, to
the dignity of the family.

"Praise be blest!" said Caleb to himself, "ae leaf of the muckle gate has been swung to wi'
yestreen's wind, and I think I can manage to shut the ither."

But he was desirous, like a prudent governor, at the same time to get rid, if possible, of
the internal enemy, in which light he considered almost every one who eat and drank, ere he
took measures to exclude those whom their jocund noise now pronounced to be near at hand. He
waited, therefore, with impatience until his master had shown his two principal guests into
the Tower, and then commenced his operations.

"I think," he said to the stranger menials, "that, as they are bringing the stag's head to
the castle in all honour, we, who are indwellers, should receive them at the gate."

The unwary grooms had no sooner hurried out, in compliance with this insidious hint, than,
one folding-door of the ancient gate being already closed by the wind, as has been already
intimated, honest Caleb lost no time in shutting the other with a clang, which resounded from
donjon-vault to battlement. Having thus secured the pass, he forthwith indulged the excluded
huntsmen in brief parley, from a small projecting window, or shot-hole, through which, in former
days, the warders were wont to reconnoitre those who presented themselves before the gates.
He gave them to understand, in a short and pity speech, that the gate of the castle was never
on any account opened during meal-times; that his honour, the Master of Ravenswood, and some
guests of quality, had just sat down to dinner; that there was excellent brandy at the hostler-wife's
at Wolf's Hope down below; and he held out some obscure hint that the reckoning would be discharged
by the Master; but this was uttered in a very dubious and oracular strain, for, like Louis
XIV., Caleb Balderstone hesitated to carry finesse so far as direct falsehood, and was content
to deceive, if possible, without directly lying.

This annunciation was received with surprise by some, with laughter by others, and with dismay
by the expelled lackeys, who endeavoured to demonstrate that their right of readmission, for
the purpose of waiting upon their master and mistress, was at least indisputable. But Caleb
was not in a humour to understand or admit any distinctions. He stuck to his original proposition
with that dogged but convenient pertinacity which is armed against all conviction, and deaf
to all reasoning. Bucklaw now came from the rear of the party, and demanded admittance in a
very angry tone. But the resolution of Caleb was immovable.

"If the king on the throne were at the gate," he declared, "his ten fingers should never open
it contrair to the established use and wont of the family of Ravenswood, and his duty as their
head-servant."

Bucklaw was now extremely incensed, and with more oaths and curses than we care to repeat,
declared himself most unworthily treated, and demanded peremptorily to speak with the Master
of Ravenswood himself.

But to this also Caleb turned a deaf ear. "He's as soon a-bleeze as a tap of tow, the lad Bucklaw,"
he said; "but the deil of ony master's face he shall see till he has sleepit and waken'd on't.
He'll ken himsell better the morn's morning. It sets the like o' him, to be bringing a crew
of drunken hunters here, when he kens there is but little preparation to sloken his ain drought."
And he disappeared from the window, leaving them all to digest their exclusion as they best might.

But another person, of whose presence Caleb, in the animation of the debate, was not aware,
had listened in silence to its progress. This was the principal domestic of the stranger--a
man of trust and consequence--the same who, in the hunting-field, had accommodated Bucklaw
with the use of his horse. He was in the stable when Caleb had contrived the expulsion of his
fellow-servants, and thus avoided sharing the same fate, from which his personal importance
would certainly not have otherwise saved him.

This personage perceived the manoeuvre of Caleb, easily appreciated the motive of his conduct,
and knowing his master's intentions towards the family of Ravenswood, had no difficulty as
to the line of conduct he ought to adopt. He took the place of Caleb (unperceived by the latter)
at the post of audience which he had just left, and announced to the assembled domestics, "That
it was his master's pleasure that Lord Bittlebrain's retinue and his own should go down to
the adjacent change-house and call for what refreshments they might have occasion for, and
he should take care to discharge the lawing."

The jolly troop of huntsmen retired from the inhospitable gate of Wolf's Crag, execrating,
as they descended the steep pathway, the niggard and unworthy disposition of the proprietor,
and damning, with more than silvan license, both the castle and its inhabitants. Bucklaw, with
many qualities which would have made him a man of worth and judgment in more favourable circumstances,
had been so utterly neglected in point of education, that he was apt to think and feel according
to the ideas of the companions of his pleasures. The praises which had recently been heaped
upon himself he contrasted with the general abuse now levelled against Ravenswood; he recalled
to his mind the dull and monotonous days he had spent in the Tower of Wolf's Crag, compared
with the joviality of his usual life; he felt with great indignation his exclusion from the
castle, which he considered as a gross affront, and every mingled feeling led him to break
off the union which he had formed with the Master of Ravenswood.

On arriving at the change-house of the village of Wolf's Hope, he unexpectedly met with an
acquaintance just alighting from his horse. This was no other than the very respectable Captain
Craigengelt, who immediately came up to him, and, without appearing to retain any recollection
of the indifferent terms on which they had parted, shook him by the hand in the warmest manner
possible. A warm grasp of the hand was what Bucklaw could never help returning with cordiality,
and no sooner had Craigengelt felt the pressure of his fingers than he knew the terms on which
he stood with him.

"Long life to you, Bucklaw!" he exclaimed; "there's life for honest folk in this bad world yet!"

The Jacobites at this period, with what propriety I know not, used, it must be noticed, the
term of HONEST MEN as peculiarly descriptive of their own party.

"Ay, and for others besides, it seems," answered Bucklaw; "otherways, how came you to venture
hither, noble Captain?"

"Who--I? I am as free as the wind at Martinmas, that pays neither land-rent nor annual; all
is explained--all settled with the honest old drivellers yonder of Auld Reekie. Pooh! pooh!
they dared not keep me a week of days in durance. A certain person has better friends among
them than you wot of, and can serve a friend when it is least likely."

"Pshaw!" answered Hayston, who perfectly knew and thoroughly despised the character of this
man, "none of your cogging gibberish; tell me truly, are you at liberty and in safety?"

"Free and safe as a Whig bailie on the causeway of his own borough, or a canting Presbyterian
minister in his own pulpit; and I came to tell you that you need not remain in hiding any longer."

"Then I suppose you call yourself my friend, Captain Craigengelt?" said Bucklaw.

"Friend!" replied Craigengelt, "my cock of the pit! why, I am thy very Achates, man, as I have
heard scholars say--hand and glove--bark and tree--thine to life and death!"

"I'll try that in a moment," answered Bucklaw. "Thou art never without money, however thou
comest by it. Lend me two pieces to wash the dust out of these honest fellows' throats in the
first place, and then----"

"Two pieces! Twenty are at thy service, my lad, and twenty to back them."

"Ay, say you so?" said Bucklaw, pausing, for his natural penetration led him to suspect some
extraordinary motive lay couched under an excess of generosity. "Craigengelt, you are either
an honest fellow in right good earnest, and I scarce know how to believe that; or you are cleverer
than I took you for, and I scarce know how to believe that either."

"L'un n'empeche pas l'autre," said Craigengelt. "Touch and try; the gold is good as ever was
weighed."

He put a quantity of gold pieces into Bucklaw's hand, which he thrust into his pocket without
either counting or looking at them, only observing, "That he was so circumstanced that he must
enlist, though the devil offered the press-money"; and then turning to the huntsmen, he called
out, "Come along, my lads; all is at my cost."

"Long life to Bucklaw!" shouted the men of the chase.

"And confusion to him that takes his share of the sport, and leaves the hunters as dry as a
drumhead," added another, by way of corollary.

"The house of Ravenswood was ance a gude and an honourable house in this land," said an old
man; "but it's lost its credit this day, and the Master has shown himself no better than a
greedy cullion."

And with this conclusion, which was unanimously agreed to by all who heard it, they rushed
tumultuously into the house of entertainment, where they revelled till a late hour. The jovial
temper of Bucklaw seldom permitted him to be nice in the choice of his associates; and on the
present occasion, when his joyous debauch received additional zest from the intervention of
an unusual space of sobriety, and almost abstinence, he was as happy in leading the revels
as if his comrades had been sons of princes. Craigengelt had his own purposes in fooling him
up to the top of his bent; and having some low humour, much impudence, and the power of singing
a good song, understanding besides thoroughly the disposition of his regained associate, he
headily succeeded in involving him bumper-deep in the festivity of the meeting.

A very different scene was in the mean time passing in the Tower of Wolf's Crag. When the Master
of Ravenswood left the courtyard, too much busied with his own perplexed reflections to pay
attention to the manoeuvre of Caleb, he ushered his guests into the great hall of the castle.

The indefatigable Balderstone, who, from choice or habit, worked on from morning to night,
had by degrees cleared this desolate apartment of the confused relics of the funeral banquet,
and restored it to some order. But not all his skill and labour, in disposing to advantage
the little furniture which remained, could remove the dark and disconsolate appearance of those
ancient and disfurnished walls. The narrow windows, flanked by deep indentures into the walls,
seemed formed rather to exclude than to admit the cheerful light; and the heavy and gloomy
appearance of the thunder-sky added still farther to the obscurity.

As Ravenswood, with the grace of a gallant of that period, but not without a certain stiffness
and embarrassment of manner, handed the young lady to the upper end of the apartment, her father
remained standing more near to the door, as if about to disengage himself from his hat and
cloak. At this moment the clang of the portal was heard, a sound at which the stranger started,
stepped hastily to the window, and looked with an air of alarm at Ravenswood, when he saw that
the gate of the court was shut, and his domestics excluded.

"You have nothing to fear, sir," said Ravenswood, gravely; "this roof retains the means of
giving protection, though not welcome. Methinks," he added, "it is time that I should know
who they are that have thus highly honoured my ruined dwelling!" The young lady remained silent
and motionless, and the father, to whom the question was more directly addressed, seemed in
the situation of a performer who has ventured to take upon himself a part which he finds himself
unable to present, and who comes to a pause when it is most to be expected that he should speak.
While he endeavoured to cover his embarrassment with the exterior ceremonials of a well-bred
demeanour, it was obvious that, in making his bow, one foot shuffled forward, as if to advance,
the other backward, as if with the purpose of escape; and as he undid the cape of his coat,
and raised his beaver from his face, his fingers fumbled as if the one had been linked with
rusted iron, or the other had weighed equal with a stone of lead. The darkness of the sky seemed
to increase, as if to supply the want of those mufflings which he laid aside with such evident
reluctance. The impatience of Ravenswood increased also in proportion to the delay of the stranger,
and he appeared to struggle under agitation, though probably from a very different cause. He
laboured to restrain his desire to speak, while the stranger, to all appearance, was at a loss
for words to express what he felt necessary to say.

At length Ravenswood's impatience broke the bounds he had imposed upon it. "I perceive," he
said, "that Sir William Ashton is unwilling to announced himself in the Castle of Wolf's Crag."

"I had hoped it was unnecessary," said the Lord Keeper, relieved from his silence, as a spectre
by the voice of the exorcist, "and I am obliged to you, Master of Ravenswood, for breaking
the ice at once, where circumstances--unhappy circumstances, let me call them--rendered self-introduction
peculiarly awkward."

"And I am not then," said the Master of Ravenswood, gravely, "to consider the honour of this
visit as purely accidental?"

"Let us distinguish a little," said the Keeper, assuming an appearance of ease which perhaps
his heart was a stranger to; "this is an honour which I have eagerly desired for some time,
but which I might never have obtained, save for the accident of the storm. My daughter and
I are alike grateful for this opportunity of thanking the brave man to whom she owes her life
and I mine."

The hatred which divided the great families in the feudal times had lost little of its bitterness,
though it no longer expressed itself in deeds of open violence. Not the feelings which Ravenswood
had begun to entertain towards Lucy Ashton, not the hospitality due to his guests, were able
entirely to subdue, though they warmly combated, the deep passions which arose within him at
beholding his father's foe standing in the hall of the family of which he had in a great measure
accelerated the ruin. His looks glanced from the father to the daughter with an irresolution
of which Sir William Ashton did not think it proper to await the conclusion. He had now disembarrassed
himself of his riding-dress, and walking up to his daughter, he undid the fastening of her mask.

"Lucy, my love," he said, raising her and leading her towards Ravenswood, "lay aside your mask,
and let us express our gratitude to the Master openly and barefaced."

"If he will condescend to accept it," was all that Lucy uttered; but in a tone so sweetly modulated,
and which seemed to imply at once a feeling and a forgiving of the cold reception to which
they were exposed, that, coming from a creature so innocent and so beautiful, her words cut
Ravenswood to the very heart for his harshness. He muttered something of surprise, something
of confusion, and, ending with a warm and eager expression of his happiness at being able to
afford her shelter under his roof, he saluted her, as the ceremonial of the time enjoined upon
such occasions. Their cheeks had touched and were withdrawn from each other; Ravenswood had
not quitted the hand which he had taken in kindly courtesy; a blush, which attached more consequence
by far than was usual to such ceremony, still mantled on Lucy Ashton's beautiful cheek, when
the apartment was suddenly illuminated by a flash of lightning, which seemed absolutely to
swallow the darkness of the hall. Every object might have been for an instant seen distinctly.
The slight and half-sinking form of Lucy Ashton; the well-proportioned and stately figure of
Ravenswood, his dark features, and the fiery yet irresolute expression of his eyes; the old
arms and scutcheons which hung on the walls of the apartment, were for an instant distinctly
visible to the Keeper by a strong red brilliant glare of light. Its disappearance was almost
instantly followed by a burst of thunder, for the storm-cloud was very near the castle; and
the peal was so sudden and dreadful, that the old tower rocked to its foundation, and every
inmate concluded it was falling upon them. The soot, which had not been disturbed for centuries,
showered down the huge tunnelled chimneys; lime and dust flew in clouds from the wall; and,
whether the lightning had actually struck the castle or whether through the violent concussion
of the air, several heavy stones were hurled from the mouldering battlements into the roaring
sea beneath. It might seem as if the ancient founder of the castle were bestriding the thunderstorm,
and proclaiming his displeasure at the reconciliation of his descendant with the enemy of his
house.

The consternation was general, and it required the efforts of both the Lord Keeper and Ravenswood
to keep Lucy from fainting. Thus was the Master a second time engaged in the most delicate
and dangerous of all tasks, that of affording support and assistance to a beautiful and helpless
being, who, as seen before in a similar situation, had already become a favourite of his imagination,
both when awake and when slumbering. If the genius of the house really condemned a union betwixt
the Master and his fair guest, the means by which he expressed his sentiments were as unhappily
chosen as if he had been a mere mortal. The train of little attentions, absolutely necessary
to soothe the young lady's mind, and aid her in composing her spirits, necessarily threw the
Master of Ravenswood into such an intercourse with her father as was calculated, for the moment
at least, to break down the barrier of feudal enmity which divided them. To express himself
churlishly, or even coldly, towards an old man whose daughter (and SUCH a daughter) lay before
them, overpowered with natural terror--and all this under his own roof, the thing was impossible;
and by the time that Lucy, extending a hand to each, was able to thank them for their kindness,
the Master felt that his sentiments of hostility towards the Lord Keeper were by no means those
most predominant in his bosom.

The weather, her state of health, the absence of her attendants, all prevented the possibility
of Lucy Ashton renewing her journey to Bittlebrains House, which was full five miles distant;
and the Master of Ravenswood could not but, in common courtesy, offer the shelter of his roof
for the rest of the day and for the night. But a flush of less soft expression, a look much
more habitual to his features, resumed predominance when he mentioned how meanly he was provided
for the entertainment of his guests.

"Do not mention deficiencies," said the Lord Keeper, eager to interrupt him and prevent his
resuming an alarming topic; "you are preparing to set out for the Continent, and your house
is probably for the present unfurnished. All this we understand; but if you mention inconvenience,
you will oblige us to seek accommodations in the hamlet."

As the Master of Ravenswood was about to reply, the door of the hall opened, and Caleb Balderstone
rushed in.

CHAPTER XI.

     Let them have meat enough, woman--half a hen;
     There be old rotten pilchards--put them off too;
     'Tis but a little new anointing of them,
     And a strong onion, that confounds the savour.

     Love's Pilgrimage.

THE thunderbolt, which had stunned all who were within hearing of it, had only served to awaken
the bold and inventive genius of the flower of majors-domo. Almost before the clatter had ceased,
and while there was yet scarce an assurance whether the castle was standing or falling, Caleb
exclaimed, "Heaven be praised! this comes to hand like the boul of a pint-stoup." He then barred
the kitchen door in the face of the Lord Keeper's servant, whom he perceived returning from
the party at the gate, and muttering, "How the deil cam he in?--but deil may care. Mysie, what
are ye sitting shaking and greeting in the chimney-neuk for? Come here--or stay where ye are,
and skirl as loud as ye can; it's a' ye're gude for. I say, ye auld deevil, skirl--skirl--louder--louder,
woman; gar the gentles hear ye in the ha'. I have heard ye as far off as the Bass for a less
matter. And stay--down wi' that crockery----"

And with a sweeping blow, he threw down from a shelf some articles of pewter and earthenware.
He exalted his voice amid the clatter, shouting and roaring in a manner which changed Mysie's
hysterical terrors of the thunder into fears that her old fellow-servant was gone distracted.
"He has dung down a' the bits o' pigs, too--the only thing we had left to haud a soup milk--and
he has spilt the hatted hit that was for the Master's dinner. Mercy save us, the auld man's
gaen clean and clear wud wi' the thunner!"

"Haud your tongue, ye b----!" said Caleb, in the impetuous and overbearing triumph of successful
invention, "a's provided now--dinner and a'thing; the thunner's done a' in a clap of a hand!"

"Puir man, he's muckle astray," said Mysie, looking at him with a mixture of pity and alarm;
"I wish he may ever come come hame to himsell again."

"Here, ye auld doited deevil," said Caleb, still exulting in his extrication from a dilemma
which had seemed insurmountable; "keep the strange man out of the kitchen; swear the thunner
came down the chimney and spoiled the best dinner ye ever dressed--beef--bacon--kid--lark--leveret--wild-fowl--venison,
and what not. Lay it on thick, and never mind expenses. I'll awa' up to the la'. Make a' the
confusion ye can; but be sure ye keep out the strange servant."

With these charges to his ally, Caleb posted up to the hall, but stopping to reconnoitre through
an aperture, which time, for the convenience of many a domestic in succession, had made in
the door, and perceiving the situation of Miss Ashton, he had prudence enough to make a pause,
both to avoid adding to her alarm and in order to secure attention to his account of the disastrous
effects of the thunder.

But when he perceived that the lady was recovered, and heard the conversation turn upon the
accommodation and refreshment which the castle afforded, he thought it time to burst into the
room in the manner announced in the last chapter.

"Willawins!--willawins! Such a misfortune to befa' the house of Ravenswood, and I to live to
see it."

"What is the matter, Caleb?" said his master, somewhat alarmed in his turn; "has any part of
the castle fallen?"

"Castle fa'an! na, but the sute's fa'an, and the thunner's come right down the kitchen-lum,
and the things are a' lying here awa', there awa', like the Laird o' Hotchpotch's lands; and
wi' brave guests of honour and quality to entertain (a low bow here to Sir William Ashton and
his daughter), and naething left in the house fit to present for dinner, or for supper either,
for aught that I can see!"

"I very believe you, Caleb," said Ravenswood, drily. Balderstone here turned to his master
a half-upbraiding, half-imploring countenance, and edged towards him as he repeated, "It was
nae great matter of preparation; but just something added to your honour's ordinary course
of fare--petty cover, as they say at the Louvre--three courses and the fruit."

"Keep your intolerable nonsense to yourself, you old fool!" said Ravenswood, mortified at his
officiousness, yet not knowing how to contradict him, without the risk of giving rise to scenes
yet more ridiculous.

Caleb saw his advantage, and resolved to improve it. But first, observing that the Lord Keeper's
servant entered the apartment and spoke apart with his master, he took the same opportunity
to whisper a few words into Ravenswood's ear: "Haud your tongue, for heaven's sake, sir; if
it's my pleasure to hazard my soul in telling lees for the honour of the family, it's nae business
o' yours; and if ye let me gang on quietly, I'se be moderate in my banquet; but if ye contradict
me, deil but I dress ye a dinner fit for a duke!"

Ravenswood, in fact, thought it would be best to let his officious butler run on, who proceeded
to enumerate upon his fingers--"No muckle provision--might hae served four persons of honour,--first
course, capons in white broth--roast kid--bacon with reverence; second course, roasted leveret--butter
crabs--a veal florentine; third course, blackcock--it's black eneugh now wi' the sute--plumdamas--a
tart--a flam--and some nonsense sweet things, adn comfits--and that's a'," he said, seeing
the impatience of his master--"that's just a' was o't--forbye the apples and pears."

Miss Ashton had by degrees gathered her spirits, so far as to pay some attention to what was
going on; and observing the restrained impatience of Ravenswood, contrasted with the peculiar
determination of manner with which Caleb detailed his imaginary banquet, the whole struck her
as so ridiculous that, despite every effort to the contrary, she burst into a fit of incontrollable
laughter, in which she was joined by her father, though with more moderation, and finally by
the Master of Ravenswood himself, though conscious that the jest was at his own expense. Their
mirth--for a scene which we read with little emotion often appears extremely ludicrous to the
spectators--made the old vault ring again. They ceased--they renewed--they ceased--they renewed
again their shouts of laughter! Caleb, in the mean time, stood his ground with a grave, angry,
and scornful dignity, which greatly enhanced the ridicule of the scene and mirth of the spectators.

At length, when the voices, and nearly the strength, of the laughers were exhausted, he exclaimed,
with very little ceremony: "The deil's in the gentles! they breakfast sae lordly, that the
loss of the best dinner ever cook pat fingers to makes them as merry as if it were the best
jeest in a' George Buchanan. If there was as little in your honours' wames as there is in Caleb
Balderstone's, less caickling wad serve ye on sic a gravaminous subject."

Caleb's blunt expression of resentment again awakened the mirth of the company, which, by the
way, he regarded not only as an aggression upon the dignity of the family, but a special contempt
of the eloquence with which he himself had summed up the extent of their supposed losses. "A
description of a dinner," as he said afterwards to Mysie, "that wad hae made a fu' man hungry,
and them to sit there laughing at it!"

"But," said Miss Ashton, composing her countenance as well as she could, "are all these delicacies
so totally destroyed that no scrap can be collected?"

"Collected, my leddy! what wad ye collect out of the sute and the ass? Ye may gang down yoursell,
and look into our kitchen--the cookmaid in the trembling exies--the gude vivers lying a' about--beef,
capons, and white broth--florentine and flams--bacon wi' reverence--and a' the sweet confections
and whim-whams--ye'll see them a', my leddy--that is," said he, correcting himself, "ye'll
no see ony of them now, for the cook has soopit them up, as was weel her part; but ye'll see
the white broth where it was spilt. I pat my fingers in it, and it tastes as like sour milk
as ony thing else; if that isna the effect of thunner, I kenna what is. This gentleman here
couldna but hear the clash of our haill dishes, china and silver thegither?"

The Lord Keeper's domestic, though a statesman's attendant, and of course trained to command
his countenance upon all occasions, was somewhat discomposed by this appeal, to which he only
answered by a bow.

"I think, Mr. Butler," said the Lord Keeper, who began to be afraid lest the prolongation of
this scene should at length displease Ravenswood--"I think that, were you to retire with my
servant Lockhard--he has travelled, and is quite accustomed to accidents and contingencies
of every kind, and I hope betwixt you, you may find out some mode of supply at this emergency."

"His honour kens," said Caleb, who, however hopeless of himself of accomplishing what was desirable,
would, like the high-spirited elephant, rather have died in the effort than brooked the aid
of a brother in commission--"his honour kens weel I need nae counsellor, when the honour of
the house is concerned."

"I should be unjust if I denied it, Caleb," said his master; "but your art lies chiefly in
making apologies, upon which we can no more dine than upon the bill of fare of our thunder-blasted
dinner. Now, possibly Mr. Lockhard's talent may consist in finding some substitute for that
which certainly is not, and has in all probability never been."

"Your honour is pleased to be facetious," said Caleb, "but I am sure that, for the warst, for
a walk as far as Wolf's Hope, I could dine forty men--no that the folk there deserve your honour's
custom. They hae been ill advised in the matter of the duty eggs and butter, I winna deny that."

"Do go consult together," said the Master; "go down to the village, and do the best you can.
We must not let our guests remain without refreshment, to save the honour of a ruined family.
And here, Caleb, take my purse; I believe that will prove your best ally."

"Purse! purse, indeed!" quoth Caleb, indignantly flinging out of the room; "what suld I do
wi' your honour's purse, on your ain grund? I trust we are no to pay for our ain?"

The servants left the hall; and the door was no sooner shut than the Lord Keeper began to apologise
for the rudeness of his mirth; and Lucy to hope she had given no pain or offence to the kind-hearted
faithful old man.

"Caleb and I must both learn, madam, to undergo with good humour, or at least with patience,
the ridicule which everywhere attaches itself to poverty."

"You do yourself injustice, Master of Ravenswood, on my word of honour," answered his elder
guest. "I believe I know more of your affairs than you do yourself, and I hope to show you
that I am interested in them; and that--in short, that your prospects are better than you apprehend.
In the mean time, I can conceive nothing so respectable as the spirit which rises above misfortune,
and prefers honourable privations to debt or dependence."

Whether from fear of offending the delicacy or awakening the pride of the Master, the Lord
Keeper made these allusions with an appearance of fearful and hesitating reserve, and seemed
to be afraid that he was intruding too far, in venturing to touch, however lightly, upon such
a topic, even when the Master had led to it. In short, he appeared at once pushed on by his
desire of appearing friendly, and held back by the fear of intrusion. It was no wonder that
the Master of Ravenswood, little acquainted as he then was with life, should have given this
consummate courtier credit for more sincerity than was probably to be found in a score of his
cast. He answered, however, with reserve, that he was indebted to all who might think well
of him; and, apologising to his guests, he left the hall, in order to make such arrangements
for their entertainment as circumstances admitted.

Upon consulting with old Mysie, the accommodations for the night were easily completed, as
indeed they admitted of little choice. The Master surrendered his apartment for the use of
Miss Ashton, and Mysie, once a person of consequence, dressed in a black satin gown which had
belonged of yore to the Master's grandmother, and had figured in the court-balls of Henrietta
Maria, went to attend her as lady's-maid. He next inquired after Bucklaw, and understanding
he was at the change-house with the huntsmen and some companions, he desired Caleb to call
there, and acquaint him how he was circumstanced at Wolf's Crag; to intimate to him that it
would be most convenient if he could find a bed in the hamlet, as the elder guest must necessarily
be quartered in the secret chamber, the only spare bedroom which could be made fit to receive
him. The Master saw no hardship in passing the night by the hall fire, wrapt in his campaign-cloak;
and to Scottish domestics of the day, even of the highest rank, nay, to young men of family
or fashion, on any pinch, clean straw, or a dry hayloft, was always held good night-quarters.

For the rest, Lockhard had his master's orders to bring some venison from the inn, and Caleb
was to trust to his wits for the honour of his family. The Master, indeed, a second time held
out his purse; but, as it was in sight of the strange servant, the butler thought himself obliged
to decline what his fingers itched to clutch. "Couldna he hae slippit it gently into my hand?"
said Caleb; "but his honour will never learn how to bear himsell in siccan cases."

Mysie, in the mean time, according to a uniform custom in remote places in Scotland, offered
the strangers the produce of her little dairy, "while better meat was getting ready." And according
to another custom, not yet wholly in desuetude, as the storm was now drifting off to leeward,
the Master carried the Keeper to the top of his highest tower to admire a wide and waste extent
of view, and to "weary for his dinner."

CHAPTER XII.

     "Now dame," quoth he, "Je vous dis sans doute,
     Had I nought of a capon but the liver,
     And of your white bread nought but a shiver,
     And after that a roasted pigge's head
     (But I ne wold for me no beast were dead),
     Then had I with you homely sufferaunce."

     CHAUCER, Summer's Tale.

IT was not without some secret misgivings that Caleb set out upon his exploratory expedition.
In fact, it was attended with a treble difficulty. He dared not tell his mast the offence which
he had that morning given to Bucklaw, just for the honour of the family; he dared not acknowledge
he had been too hasty in refusing the purse; and, thirdly, he was somewhat apprehensive of
unpleasant consequences upon his meeting Hayston under the impression of an affront, and probably
by this time under the influence also of no small quantity of brandy.

Caleb, to do him justice, was as bold as any lion where the honour of the family of Ravenswood
was concerned; but his was that considerate valour which does not delight in unnecessary risks.
This, however, was a secondary consideration; the main point was to veil the indigence of the
housekeeping at the castle, and to make good his vaunt of the cheer which his resources could
procure, without Lockhard's assistance, and without supplies from his master. This was as prime
a point of honour with him as with the generous elephant with whom we have already compared
him, who, being overtasked, broke his skull through the desperate exertions which he made to
discharge his duty, when he perceived they were bringing up another to his assistance.

The village which they now approached had frequently afforded the distressed butler resources
upon similar emergencies; but his relations with it had been of late much altered.

It was a little hamlet which straggled along the side of a creek formed by the discharge of
a small brook into the sea, and was hidden from the castle, to which it had been in former
times an appendage, by the intervention of the shoulder of a hill forming a projecting headland.
It was called Wolf's Hope (i.e. Wolf's Haven), and the few inhabitants gained a precarious
subsistence by manning two or three fishing-boats in the herring season, and smuggling gin
and brandy during the winter months. They paid a kind of hereditary respect to the Lords of
Ravenswood; but, in the difficulties of the family, most of the inhabitants of Wolf's Hope
had contrived to get feu-rights to their little possessions, their huts, kail-yards, and rights
of commonty, so that they were emancipated from the chains of feudal dependence, and free from
the various exactions with which, under every possible pretext, or without any pretext at all,
the Scottish landlords of the period, themselves in great poverty, were wont to harass their
still poorer tenants at will.

Caleb loved the memory and resented the downfall of that authority, which mimicked, on a petty
scale, the grand contributions exacted by the feudal sovereigns. And as he fondly flattered
himself that the awful rule and right supremacy, which assigned to the Barons of Ravenswood
the first and most effective interest in all productions of nature within five miles of their
castle, only slumbered, and was not departed for ever, he used every now and then to give the
recollection of the inhabitants a little jog by some petty exaction. These were at first submitted
to, with more or less readiness, by the inhabitants of the hamlet; for they had been so long
used to consider the wants of the Baron and his family as having a title to be preferred to
their own, that their actual independence did not convey to them an immediate sense of freedom.
They resembled a man that has been long fettered, who, even at liberty, feels in imagination
the grasp of the handcuffs still binding his wrists. But the exercise of freedom is quickly
followed with the natural consciousness of its immunities, as the enlarged prisoner, by the
free use of his limbs, soon dispels the cramped feeling they had acquired when bound.

The inhabitants of Wolf's Hope began to grumble, to resist, and at length positively to refuse
compliance with the exactions of Caleb Balderstone. It was in vain he reminded them, that when
the eleventh Lord Ravenswood, called the Skipper, from his delight in naval matters, had encouraged
the trade of their port by building the pier (a bulwark of stones rudely piled together), which
protected the fishing-boats from the weather, it had been matter of understanding that he was
to have the first stone of butter after the calving of every cow within the barony, and the
first egg, thence called the Monday's egg, laid by every hen on every Monday in the year.

The feuars heard and scratched their heads, coughed, sneezed, and being pressed for answer,
rejoined with one voice, "They could not say"--the universal refuge of a Scottish peasant when
pressed to admit a claim which his conscience owns, or perhaps his feelings, and his interest
inclines him to deny.

Caleb, however, furnished the notables of Wolf's Hope with a note of the requisition of butter
and eggs, which he claimed as arrears of the aforesaid subsidy, or kindly aid, payable as above
mentioned; and having intimated that he would not be averse to compound the same for goods
or money, if it was inconvenient to them to pay in kind, left them, as he hoped, to debate
the mode of assessing themselves for that purpose. On the contrary, they met with a determined
purpose of resisting the exaction, and were only undecided as to the mode of grounding their
opposition, when the cooper, a very important person on a fishing-station, and one of the conscript
fathers of the village, observed, "That their hens had caickled mony a day for the Lords of
Ravenswood, and it was time they suld caickle for those that gave them roosts and barley."
An unanimous grin intimated the assent of the assembly. "And," continued the orator, "if it's
your wull, I'll just tak a step as far as Dunse for Davie Dingwall, the writer, that's come
frae the North to settle amang us, and he'll pit this job to rights, I'se warrant him."

A day was accordingly fixed for holding a grand palaver at Wolf's Hope on the subject of Caleb's
requisitions, and he was invited to attend at the hamlet for that purpose.

He went with open hands and empty stomach, trusting to fill the one on his master's account
and the other on his own score, at the expense of the feuars of Wolf's Hope. But, death to
his hopes! as he entered the eastern end of the straggling village, the awful form of Davie
Dingwall, a sly, dry, hard-fisted, shrewd country attorney, who had already acted against the
family of Ravenswood, and was a principal agent of Sir William Ashton, trotted in at the western
extremity, bestriding a leathern portmanteau stuffed with the feu-charters of the hamlet, and
hoping he had not kept Mr. Balderstone waiting, "as he was instructed and fully empowered to
pay or receive, compound or compensate, and, in fine, to age as accords respecting all mutual
and unsettled claims whatsoever, belonging or competent to the Honourable Edgar Ravenswood,
commonly called the Master of Ravenswood----"

"The RIGHT Honourable Edgar LORD RAVENSWOOD," said Caleb, with great emphasis; for, though
conscious he had little chance of advantage in the conflict to ensue, he was resolved not to
sacrifice one jot of honour.

"Lord Ravenswood, then," said the man of business--"we shall not quarrel with you about titles
of courtesy--commonly called Lord Ravenswood, or Master of Ravenswood, heritable proprietor
of the lands and barony of Wolf's Crag, on othe ne part, and to John Whitefish and others,
feuars in the town of Wolf's Hope, within the barony aforesaid, on the other part."

Caleb was conscious, from sad experience, that he would wage a very different strife with this
mercenary champion than with the individual feuars themselves, upon whose old recollections,
predilections, and habits of thinking he might have wrought by an hundred indirect arguments,
to which their deputy-representative was totally insensible. The issue of the debate proved
the reality of his apprehensions. It was in vain he strained his eloquence and ingenuity, and
collected into one mass all arguments arising from antique custom and hereditary respect, from
the good deeds done by the Lords of Ravenswood to the community of Wolf's Hope in former days,
and from what might be expected from them in future. The writer stuck to the contents of his
feu-charters; he could not see it: 'twas not in the bond. And when Caleb, determined to try
what a little spirit would do, deprecated the consequences of Lord Ravenswood's withdrawing
his protection from the burgh, and even hinted in his using active measures of resentment,
the man of law sneered in his face.

"His clients," he said, "had determined to do the best they could for their own town, and he
thought Lord Ravenswood, since he was a lord, might have enough to do to look after his own
castle. As to any threats of stouthrief oppression, by rule of thumb, or via facti, as the
law termed it, he would have Mr. Balderstone recollect, that new times were not as old times;
that they lived on the south of the Forth, and far from the Highlands; that his clients thought
they were able to protect themselves; but should they find themselves mistaken, they would
apply to the government for the protection of a corporal and four red-coats, who," said Mr.
Dingwall, with a grin, "would be perfectly able to secure them against Lord Ravenswood, and
all that he or his followers could do by the strong hand."

If Caleb could have concentrated all the lightnings of aristocracy in his eye, to have struck
dead this contemner of allegiance and privilege, he would have launched them at his head, without
respect to the consequences. As it was, he was compelled to turn his course backward to the
castle; and there he remained for full half a day invisible and inaccessible even to Mysie,
sequestered in his own peculiar dungeon, where he sat burnishing a single pewter plate and
whistling "Maggie Lauder" six hours without intermission.

The issue of this unfortunate requisition had shut against Caleb all resources which could
be derived from Wolf's Hope and its purlieus, the El Dorado, or Peru, from which, in all former
cases of exigence, he had been able to extract some assistance. He had, indeed, in a manner
vowed that the deil should have him, if ever he put the print of his foot within its causeway
again. He had hitherto kept his word; and, strange to tell, this secession had, as he intended,
in some degree, the effect of a punishment upon the refractory feuars. Mr. Balderstone had
been a person in their eyes connected with a superior order of beings, whose presence used
to grace their little festivities, whose advice they found useful on many occasions, and whose
communications gave a sort of credit to their village. The place, they acknowledged, "didna
look as it used to do, and should do, since Mr. Caleb keepit the castle sae closely; but doubtless,
touching the eggs and butter, it was a most unreasonable demand, as Mr. Dingwall had justly
made manifest."

Thus stood matters betwixt the parties, when the old butler, though it was gall and wormwood
to him, found himself obliged either to ackowledge before a strange man of quality, and, what
was much worse, before that stranger's servant, the total inability of Wolf's Crag to produce
a dinner, or he must trust to the compassion of the feuars of Wofl's Hope. It was a dreadful
degradation; but necessity was equally imperious and lawless. With these feelings he entered
the street of the village.

Willing to shake himself from his companion as soon as possible, he directed Mr. Lockhard to
Luckie Sma-trash's change-house, where a din, proceeding from the revels of Bucklaw, Craigengelt,
and their party, sounded half-way down the street, while the red glare from the window overpowered
the grey twilight which was now settling down, and glimmered against a parcel of old tubs,
kegs, and barrels, piled up in the cooper's yard, on the other side of the way.

"If you, Mr. Lockhard," said the old butler to his companion, "will be pleased to step to the
change-house where that light comes from, and where, as I judge, they are now singing 'Cauld
Kail in Aberdeen,' ye may do your master's errand about the venison, and I will do mine about
Bucklaw's bed, as I return frae getting the rest of the vivers. It's no that the venison is
actually needfu'," he added, detaining his colleague by the button, "to make up the dinner;
but as a compliment to the hunters, ye ken; and, Mr. Lockhard, if they offer ye a drink o'
yill, or a cup o' wine, or a glass o' brandy, ye'll be a wise man to take it, in case the thunner
should hae soured ours at the castle, whilk is ower muckle to be dreaded."

He then permitted Lockhard to depart; and with foot heavy as lead, and yet far lighter than
his heart, stepped on through the unequal street of the straggling village, meditating on whom
he ought to make his first attack. It was necessary he should find some one with whom old acknowledged
greatness should weigh more than recent independence, and to whom his application might appear
an act of high dignity, relenting at once and soothing. But he could not recollect an inhabitant
of a mind so constructed. "Our kail is like to be cauld eneugh too," he reflected, as the chorus
of "Cauld Kail in Aberdeen" again reached his ears. The minister--he had got his presentation
from the late lord, but they had quarrelled about teinds; the brewster's wife--she had trusted
long, and the bill was aye scored up, and unless the dignity of the family should actually
require it, it would be a sin to distress a widow woman. None was so able--but, on the other
hand, none was likely to be less willing--to stand his friend upon the present occasion, than
Gibbie Girder, the man of tubs and barrels already mentioned, who had headed the insurrection
in the matter of the egg and butter subsidy. "But a' comes o' taking folk on the right side,
I trow," quoted Caleb to himself; "and I had ance the ill hap to say he was but a Johnny New-come
in our town, and the carle bore the family an ill-will ever since. But he married a bonny young
quean, Jean Lightbody, auld Lightbody's daughter, him that was in the steading of Loup-the-Dyke;
and auld Lightbody was married himsell to Marion, that was about my lady in the family forty
years syne. I hae had mony a day's daffing wi' Jean's mither, and they say she bides on wi'
them. The carle has Jacobuses and Georgiuses baith, an ane could get at them; and sure I am,
it's doing him an honour him or his never deserved at our hand, the ungracious sumph; and if
he loses by us a'thegither, he is e'en cheap o't: he can spare it brawly." Shaking off irresolution,
therefore, and turning at once upon his heel, Caleb walked hastily back to the cooper's house,
lifted the latch withotu ceremony, and, in a moment, found himself behind the "hallan," or
partition, from which position he could, himself unseen, reconnoitre the interior of the "but,"
or kitchen apartment, of the mansion.

Reverse of the sad menage at the Castle of Wolf's Crag, a bickering fire roared up the cooper's
chimney. His wife, on the one side, in her pearlings and pudding-sleeves, put the last finishing
touch to her holiday's apparel, while she contemplated a very handsome and good-humoured face
in a broken mirror, raised upon the "bink" (the shelves on which the plates are disposed) for
her special accommodation. Her mother, old Luckie Loup-the-Dyke, "a canty carline" as was within
twenty miles of her, according to the unanimous report of the "cummers," or gossips, sat by
the fire in the full glory of a grogram gown, lammer beads, and a clean cockernony, whiffing
a snug pipe of tobacco, and superintending the affairs of the kitchen; for--sight more interesting
to the anxious heart and craving entrails of the desponding seneschal than either buxom dame
or canty cummer--there bubbled on the aforesaid bickering fire a huge pot, or rather cauldron,
steaming with beef and brewis; while before it revolved two spits, turned each by one of the
cooper's apprentices, seated in the opposite corners of the chimney, the one loaded with a
quarter of mutton, while the other was graced with a fat goose and a brace of wild ducks. The
sight and scent of such a land of plenty almost wholly overcame the drooping spirits of Caleb.
He turned, for a moment's space to reconnoitre the "ben," or parlour end of the house, and
there saw a sight scarce less affecting to his feelings--a large round table, covered for ten
or twelve persons, decored (according to his own favourite terms) with napery as white as snow,
grand flagons of pewter, intermixed with one or two silver cups, containing, as was probable,
something worthy the brilliancy of their outward appearance, clean trenchers, cutty spoons,
knives and forks, sharp, burnished, and prompt for action, which lay all displayed as for an
especial festival.

"The devil's in the peddling tub-coopering carl!" muttered Caleb, in all the envy of astonishment;
"it's a shame to see the like o' them gusting their gabs at sic a rate. But if some o' that
gude cheer does not find its way to Wolf's Crag this night, my name is not Caleb Balderstone."

So resolving, he entered the apartment, and, in all courteous greeting, saluted both the mother
and the daughter. Wolf's Crag was the court of the barony, Caleb prime minister at Wolf's Crag;
and it has ever been remarked that, though the masculine subject who pays the taxes sometimes
growls at the courtiers by whom they are imposed, the said courtiers continue, nevertheless,
welcome to the fair sex, to whom they furnish the newest small-talk and the earliest fashions.
Both the dames were, therefore, at once about old Caleb's neck, setting up their throats together
by way of welcome.

"Ay, sirs, Mr. Balderstone, and is this you? A sight of you is gude for sair een. Sit down--sit
down; the gudeman will be blythe to see you--ye nar saw him sae cadgy in your life; but we
are to christen our bit wean the night, as ye will hae heard, and doubtless ye will stay and
see the ordinance. We hae killed a wether, and ane o' our lads has been out wi' his gun at
the moss; ye used to like wild-fowl."

"Na, na, gudewife," said Caleb; "I just keekit in to wish ye joy, and I wad be glad to hae
spoken wi' the gudeman, but----" moving, as if to go away.

"The ne'er a fit ye's gang," said the elder dame, laughing and holding him fast, with a freedom
which belonged to their old acquaintance; "wha kens what ill it may bring to the bairn, if
ye owerlook it in that gate?"

"But I'm in a preceese hurry, gudewife," said the butler, suffering himself to be dragged to
a seat without much resistance; "and as to eating," for he observed the mistress of the dwelling
bustling about to place a trencher for him--"as for eating--lack-a-day, we are just killed
up yonder wi' eating frae morning to night! It's shamefu' epicurism; but that's what we hae
gotten frae the English pock-puddings." "Hout, never mind the English pock-puddings," said
Luckie Lightbody; "try our puddings, Mr. Balderstone; there is black pudding and white-hass;
try whilk ye like best."

"Baith gude--baith excellent--canna be better; but the very smell is eneugh for me that hae
dined sae lately (the faithful wretch had fasted since daybreak). But I wadna affront your
housewifeskep, gudewife; and, with your permission, I'se e'en pit them in my napkin, and eat
them to my supper at e'en, for I am wearied of Mysie's pastry and nonsense; ye ken landward
dainties aye pleased me best, Marion, and landward lasses too (looking at the cooper's wife).
Ne'er a bit but she looks far better than when she married Gilbert, and then she was the bonniest
lass in our parochine and the neist till't. But gawsie cow, goodly calf."

The women smiled at the compliment each to herself, and they smiled again to each other as
Caleb wrapt up the puddings in a towel which he had brought with him, as a dragoon carries
his foraging bag to receive what my fall in his way.

"And what news at the castle?" quo' the gudewife.

"News! The bravest news ye ever heard--the Lord Keeper's up yonder wi' his fair daughter, just
ready to fling her at my lord's head, if he winna tak her out o' his arms; and I'se warrant
he'll stitch our auld lands of Ravenswood to her petticoat tail."

"Eh! sirs--ay!--and will hae her? and is she weel-favoured? and what's the colour o' her hair?
and does she wear a habit or a railly?" were the questions which the females showered upon
the butler.

"Hout tout! it wad tak a man a day to answer a' your questions, and I hae hardly a minute.
Where's the gudeman?"

"Awa' to fetch the minister," said Mrs. Girder, "precious Mr. Peter Bide-the-Bent, frae the
Mosshead; the honest man has the rheumatism wi' lying in the hills in the persecution."

"Ay! Whig and a mountain-man, nae less!" said Caleb, with a peevishness he could not suppress.
"I hae seen the day, Luckie, when worthy Mr. Cuffcushion and the service-book would hae served
your turn (to the elder dame), or ony honest woman in like circumstances."

"And that's true too," said Mrs. Lightbody, "but what can a body do? Jean maun baith sing her
psalms and busk her cockernony the gate the gudeman likes, and nae ither gate; for he's maister
and mair at hame, I can tell ye, Mr. Balderstone."

"Ay, ay, and does he guide the gear too?" said Caleb, to whose projects masculine rule boded
little good. "Ilka penny on't; but he'll dress her as dink as a daisy, as ye see; sae she has
little reason to complain: where there's ane better aff there's ten waur."

"Aweel, gudewife," said Caleb, crestfallen, but not beaten off, "that wasna the way ye guided
your gudeman; bt ilka land has its ain lauch. I maun be ganging. I just wanted to round in
the gudeman's lug, that I heard them say up-bye yonder that Peter Puncheon, that was cooper
to the Queen's stores at the Timmer Burse at Leith, is dead; sae I though that maybe a word
frae my lord to the Lord Keeper might hae served Gilbert; but since he's frae hame----"

"O, but ye maun stay his hame-coming," said the dame. "I aye telled the gudeman ye meant weel
to him; but he taks the tout at every bit lippening word."

"Aweel, I'll stay the last minute I can."

"And so," said the handsome young spouse of Mr. Girder, "ye think this Miss Ashton is weel-favoured?
Troth, and sae should she, to set up for our young lord, with a face and a hand, and a seat
on his horse, that might become a king's son. D'ye ken that he aye glowers up at my window,
Mr. Balderstone, when he chaunces to ride thro' the town? Sae I hae a right to ken what like
he is, as weel as ony body."

"I ken that brawly," said Caleb, "for I hae heard his lordship say the cooper's wife had the
blackest ee in the barony; and I said, 'Weel may that be, my lord, for it was her mither's
afore her, as I ken to my cost.' Eh, Marion? Ha, ha, ha! Ah! these were merry days!"

"Hout awa', auld carle," said the old dame, "to speak sic daffing to young folk. But, Jean--fie,
woman, dinna ye hear the bairn greet? I'se warrant it's that dreary weid has come ower't again."

Up got mother and grandmother, and scoured away, jostling each other as they ran, into some
remote corner of the tenement, where the young hero of the evening was deposited. When Caleb
saw the coast fairly clear, he took an invigorating pinch of snuff, to sharpen and confirm
his resolution.

"Cauld be my cast," thought he, "if either Bide-the-Bent or Girder taste that broach of wild-fowl
this evening"; and then addressing the eldest turnspit, a boy of about eleven years old, and
putting a penny into his hand, he said, "Here is twal pennies, my man; carry that ower to Mrs.
Sma'trash, and bid her fill my mill wi' snishing, and I'll turn the broche for ye in the mean
time; and she will gie ye a ginge-bread snap for your pains."

No sooner was the elder boy departed on this mission than Caleb, looking the remaining turnspit
gravely and steadily in the face, removed from the fire the spit bearing the wild-fowl of which
he had undertaken the charge, clapped his hat on his head, and fairly marched off with it.
he stopped at the door of the change-house only to say, in a few brief words, that Mr. Hayston
of Bucklaw was not to expect a bed that evening in the castle.

If this message was too briefly delivered by Caleb, it became absolute rudeness when conveyed
through the medium of a suburb landlady; and Bucklaw was, as a more calm and temperate man
might have been, highly incensed. Captain Craigengelt proposed, with the unanimous applause
of all present, that they should course the old fox (meaning Caleb) ere he got to cover, and
toss him in a blanket. But Lockhard intimated to his master's servants and those of Lord Bittlebrains,
in a tone of authority, that the slightest impertinence to the Master of Ravenswood's domestic
would give Sir William Ashton the highest offence. And having so said, in a manner sufficient
to prevent any aggression on their part, he left the public-house, taking along with him two
servants loaded with such provisions as he had been able to procure, and overtook Caleb just
when he had cleared the village.

CHAPTER XIII.

     Should I take aught of you?  'Tis true I begged now;
     And what is worse than that, I stole a kindness;
     And, what is worst of all, I lost my way in't.

     Wit Without Money.

THE face of the little boy, sole witness of Caleb's infringement upon the laws at once of property
and hospitality, would have made a good picture. He sat motionless, as if he had witnessed
some of the spectral appearances which he had heard told of in a winter's evening; and as he
forgot his own duty, and allowed his spit to stand still, he added to the misfortunes of the
evening by suffering the mutton to burn as black as a coal. He was first recalled from his
trance of astonishment by a hearty cuff administered by Dame Lightbody, who, in whatever other
respects she might conform to her name, was a woman strong of person, and expert in the use
of her hands, as some say her deceased husband had known to his cost.

"What garr'd ye let the roast burn, ye ill-clerkit gude-for-nought?"

"I dinna ken," said the boy.

"And where's that ill-deedy gett, Giles?"

"I dinna ken," blubbered the astonished declarant.

"And where's Mr. Balderstone?--and abune a', and in the name of council and kirk-session, that
I suld say sae, where's the broche wi' the wild-fowl?" As Mrs. Girder here entered, and joined
her mother's exclamations, screaming into one ear while the old lady deafened the other, they
succeeded in so utterly confounding the unhappy urchin, that he could not for some time tell
his story at all, and it was only when the elder boy returned that the truth began to dawn
on their minds.

"Weel, sirs!" said Mrs. Lightbody, "wha wad hae thought o' Caleb Balderstone playing an auld
acquaintance sic a pliskie!"

"Oh, weary on him!" said the spouse of Mr. Girder; "and what am I to say to the gudeman? He'll
brain me, if there wasna anither woman in a' Wolf''s Hope."

"Hout tout, silly quean," said the mother; "na, na, it's come to muckle, but it's no come to
that neither; for an he brain you he maun brain me, and I have garr'd his betters stand back.
Hands aff is fair play; we maunna heed a bit flyting."

The tramp of horses now announced the arrival of the cooper, with the minister. They had no
sooner dismounted than they made for the kitchen fire, for the evening was cool after the thunderstorm,
and the woods wet and dirty. The young gudewife, strong in the charms of her Sunday gown and
biggonets, threw herself in the way of receiving the first attack, while her mother, like the
veteran division of the Roman legion, remained in the rear, ready to support her in case of
necessity. Both hoped to protract the discovery of what had happened--the mother, by interposing
her bustling person betwixt Mr. Girder and the fire, and the daughter, by the extreme cordiality
with which she received the minister and her husband, and the anxious fears which she expressed
lest they should have "gotten cauld." "Cauld!" quoted the husband, surlily, for he was not
of that class of lords and masters whose wives are viceroys over them, "we'll be cauld eneugh,
I think, if ye dinna let us in to the fire."

And so saying, he burst his way through both lines of defence; and, as he had a careful eye
over his property of every kind, he perceived at one glance the absence of the spit with its
savoury burden. "What the deil, woman----"

"Fie for shame!" exclaimed both the women; "and before Mr. Bide-the-Bent!"

"I stand reproved," said the cooper; "but--"

"The taking in our mouths the name of the great enemy of our souls," said Mr. Bide-the-Bent--

"I stand reproved," said the cooper.

"--Is an exposing ourselves to his temptations," continued the reverend monitor, "and in inviting,
or, in some sort, a compelling, of him to lay aside his other trafficking with unhappy persons,
and wait upon those in whose speech his name is frequent."

"Weel, weel, Mr. Bide-the-Bent, can a man do mair than stand reproved?" said the cooper; "but
jest let me ask the women what for they hae dished the wild-fowl before we came."

"They arena dished, Gilbert," said his wife; "but--but an accident----"

"What accident?" said Girder, with flashing eyes. "Nae ill come ower them, I trust? Uh?"

His wife, who stood much in awe of him, durst not reply, but her mother bustled up to her support,
with arms disposed as if they were about to be a-kimbo at the next reply.--"I gied them to
an acquaintance of mine, Gibbie Girder; and what about it now?"

Her excess of assurance struck Girder mute for an instant. "And YE gied the wild-fowl, the
best end of our christening dinner, to a friend of yours, ye auld rudas! And what might HIS
name be, I pray ye?"

"Just worthy Mr. Caleb Balderstone--frae Wolf's Crag," answered Marion, prompt and prepared
for battle.

Girder's wrath foamed over all restraint. If there was a circumstance which could have added
to the resentment he felt, it was that this extravagant donation had been made in favour of
our friend Caleb, towards whom, for reasons to which the reader is no stranger, he nourished
a decided resentment. He raised his riding-wand against the elder matron, but she stood firm,
collected in herself, and undauntedly brandished the iron ladle with which she had just been
"flambing" (Anglice, basting) the roast of mutton. Her weapon was certainly the better, and
her arm not the weakest of the two; so that Gilbert thought it safest to turn short off upon
his wife, who had by this time hatched a sort of hysterical whine, which greatly moved the
minister, who was in fact as simple and kind-hearted a creature as ever breathed. "And you,
ye thowless jade, to sit still and see my substance disponed upon to an idle, drunken, reprobate,
worm-eaten serving-man, just because he kittles the lugs o' a silly auld wife wi' useless clavers,
and every twa words a lee? I'll gar you as gude----"

Here the minister interposed, both by voice and action, while Dame Lightbody threw herself
in front of her daughter, and flourished her ladle.

"Am I no to chastise my ain wife?" exclaimed the cooper very indignantly.

"Ye may chastise your ain wife if ye like," answered Dame Lightbody; "but ye shall never lay
finger on my daughter, and that ye may found upon." "For shame, Mr. Girder!" said the clergyman;
"this is what I little expected to have seen of you, that you suld give rein to your sinful
passions against your nearest and your dearest, and this night too, when ye are called to the
most solemn duty of a Christian parent; and a' for what? For a redundancy of creature-comforts,
as worthless as they are unneedful."

"Worthless!" exclaimed the cooper. "A better guse never walkit on stubble; two finer, dentier
wild ducks never wat a feather."

"Be it sae, neighbour," rejoined the minister; "but see what superfluities are yet revolving
before your fire. I have seen the day when ten of the bannocks which stand upon that board
would have been an acceptable dainty to as many men, that were starving on hills and bogs,
and in caves of the earth, for the Gospel's sake."

"And that's what vexes me maist of a'," said the cooper, anxious to get some one to sympathise
with his not altogether causeless anger; "an the quean had gien it to ony suffering sant, or
to ony body ava but that reaving, lying, oppressing Tory villain, that rade in the wicked troop
of militia when it was commanded out against the sants at Bothwell Brig by the auld tyrant
Allan Ravenswood, that is gane to his place, I wad the less hae minded it. But to gie the principal
parts o' the feast to the like o' him----!"

"Aweel, Gilbert," said the minister, "and dinna ye see a high judgment in this? The seed of
the righteous are not seen begging their bread: think of the son of a powerful oppressor being
brought to the pass of supporting his household from your fulness."

"And, besides," said the wife, "it wasna for Lord Ravenswood neither, an he wad hear but a
body speak: it was to help to entertain the Lord Keeper, as they ca' him, that's up yonder
at Wolf's Crag."

"Sir William Ashton at Wolf's Crag!" ejaculated the astonished man of hoops and staves.

"And hand and glove wi' Lord Ravenswood," added Dame Lightbody.

"Doited idiot! that auld, clavering sneckdrawer wad gar ye trow the moon is made of green cheese.
The Lord Keeper and Ravenswood! they are cat and dog, hare and hound."

"I tell ye they are man and wife, and gree better than some others that are sae," retorted
the mother-in-law; "forbye, Peter Puncheon, that's cooper the Queen's stores, is dead, and
the place is to fill, and----"

"Od guide us, wull ye haud your skirling tongues!" said Girder,--for we are to remark, that
this explanation was given like a catch for two voices, the younger dame, much encouraged by
the turn of the debate, taking up and repeating in a higher tone the words as fast as they
were uttered by her mother.

"The gudewife says naething but what's true, maister," said Girder's foreman, who had come
in during the fray. "I saw the Lord Keeper's servants drinking and driving ower at Luckie Sma'trash's,
ower-bye yonder."

"And is their maister up at Wolf's Crag?" said Girder.

"Ay, troth is he," replied his man of confidence.

"And friends wi' Ravenswood?"

"It's like sae," answered the foreman, "since he is putting up wi' him."

"And Peter Puncheon's dead?"

"Ay, ay, Puncheon has leaked out at last, the auld carle," said the foreman; "mony a dribble
o' brandy has gaen through him in his day. But as for the broche and the wild-fowl, the saddle's
no aff your mare yet, maister, and I could follow and bring it back, for Mr. Balderstone's
no far aff the town yet."

"Do sae, Will; and come here, I'll tell ye what to do when ye owertake him."

He relieved the females of his presence, and gave Will his private instructions.

"A bonny-like thing," said the mother-in-law, as the cooper re-entered the apartment, "to send
the innocent lad after an armed man, when ye ken Mr. Balderstone aye wears a rapier, and whiles
a dirk into the bargain."

"I trust," said the minister, "ye have reflected weel on what ye have done, lest you should
minister cause of strife, of which it is my duty to say, he who affordeth matter, albeit he
himself striketh not, is in no manner guiltless."

"Never fash your beard, Mr. Bide-the-Bent," replied Girder; "ane canna get their breath out
here between wives and ministers. I ken best how to turn my ain cake. Jean, serve up the dinner,
and nae mair about it."

Nor did he again allude to the deficiency in the course of the evening.

Meantime, the foreman, mounted on his master's steed, and charged with his special orders,
pricked swiftly forth in pursuit of the marauder Caleb. That personage, it may be imagined,
did not linger by the way. He intermitted even his dearly-beloved chatter, for the purpose
of making more haste, only assuring Mr. Lockhard that he had made the purveyor's wife give
the wild-fowl a few turns before the fire, in case that Mysie, who had been so much alarmed
by the thunder, should not have her kitchen-grate in full splendour. Meanwhile, alleging the
necessity of being at Wolf's Crag as soon as possible, he pushed on so fast that his companions
could scarce keep up with him. He began already to think he was safe from pursuit, having gained
the summit of the swelling eminence which divides Wolf's Crag from the village, when he heard
the distant tread of a horse, and a voice which shouted at intervals, "Mr. Caleb--Mr. Balderstone--Mr.
Caleb Balderstone--hollo--bide a wee!"

Caleb, it may be well believed, was in no hurry to acknowledge the summons. First, he would
not heart it, and faced his companions down, that it was the echo of the wind; then he said
it was not worth stopping for; and, at length, halting reluctantly, as the figure of the horseman
appeared through the shades of the evening, he bent up his whole soul to the task of defending
his prey, threw himself into an attitude of dignity, advanced the spit, which is his grasp
might with its burden seem both spear and shield, and firmly resolved to die rather than surrender
it.

What was his astonishment, when the cooper's foreman, riding up and addressing him with respect,
told him: "His master was very sorry he was absent when he came to his dwelling, and grieved
that he could not tarry the christening dinner; and that he had taen the freedom to send a
sma' runlet of sack, and ane anker of brandy, as he understood there were guests at the castle,
and that they were short of preparation."

I have heard somewhere a story of an elderly gentleman who was pursued by a bear that had gotten
loose from its muzzle, until completely exhausted. In a fit of desperation, he faced round
upon Bruin and lifted his cane; at the sight of which the instinct of discipline prevailed,
and the animal, instead of tearing him to pieces, rose up upon his hind-legs and instantly
began to shuffle a saraband. Not less than the joyful surprise of the senior, who had supposed
himself in the extremity of peril from which he was thus unexpectedly relieved, was that of
our excellent friend Caleb, when he found the pursuer intended to add to his prize, instead
of bereaving him of it. He recovered his latitude, however, instantly, so soon as the foreman,
stooping from his nag, where he sate perched betwixt the two barrels, whispered in his ear:
"If ony thing about Peter Puncheon's place could be airted their way, John [Gibbie] Girder
wad mak it better to the Master of Ravenswood than a pair of new gloves; and that he wad be
blythe to speak wi' Maister Balderstone on that head, and he wad find him as pliant as a hoop-willow
in a' that he could wish of him."

Caleb heard all this without rendering any answer, except that of all great men from Louis
XIV. downwards, namely, "We will see about it"; and then added aloud, for the edification of
Mr. Lockhard: "Your master has acted with becoming civility and attention in forwarding the
liquors, and I will not fail to represent it properly to my Lord Ravenswood. And, my lad,"
he said, "you may ride on to the castle, and if none of the servants are returned, whilk is
to be dreaded, as they make day and night of it when they are out of sight, ye may put them
into the porter's lodge, whilk is on the right hand of the great entry; the porter has got
leave to go to see his friends, sae ye will met no ane to steer ye."

The foreman, having received his orders, rode on; and having deposited the casks in the deserted
and ruinous porter's lodge, he returned unquestioned by any one. Having thus executed his master's
commission, and doffed his bonnet to Caleb and his company as he repassed them in his way to
the village, he returned to have his share of the christening festivity.

CHAPTER XIV.

     As, to the Autumn breeze's bugle sound,
     Various and vague the dry leaves dance their round;
     Or, from the garner-door, on ether borne,
     The chaff flies devious from the winnow'd corn;
     So vague, so devious, at the breath of heaven,
     From their fix'd aim are mortal counsels driv'n.

     Anonymous.

WE left Caleb Balderstone in the extremity of triumph at the success of his various achievements
for the honour of the house of Ravenswood. When he had mustered and marshalled his dishes of
divers kinds, a more royal provision had not been seen in Wolf's Crag since the funeral feast
of its deceased lord. Great was the glory of the serving-man, as he "decored" the old oaken
table with a clean cloth, and arranged upon it carbonaded venison and roasted wild-fowl, with
a glance, every now and then, as if to upbraid the incredulity of his master and his guests;
and with many a story, more or less true, was Lockhard that evening regaled concerning the
ancient grandeur of Wolf's Crag, and the sway of its barons over the country in their neighbourhood.

"A vassal scarce held a calf or a lamb his ain, till he had first asked if the Lord of Ravenswood
was pleased to accept it; and they were obliged to ask the lord's consent before they married
in these days, and mony a merry tale they tell about that right as weel as others. And although,"
said Caleb, "these times are not like the gude auld times, when authority had its right, yet
true it is, Mr. Lockhard, and you yoursell may partly have remarked, that we of the house of
Ravenswood do our endeavour in keeping up, by all just and lawful exertion of our baronial
authority, that due and fitting connexion betwixt superior and vassal, whilk is in some danger
of falling into desuetude, owing to the general license and misrule of these present unhappy
times."

"Umph!" said Mr. Lockhard; "and if I may inquire, Mr. Balderstone, pray do you find your people
at the village yonder amenable? for I must needs say, that at Ravenswood Castle, now pertaining
to my master the Lord Keeper, ye have not left behind ye the most compliant set of tenantry."

"Ah! but Mr. Lockhard," replied Caleb, "ye must consider there has been a change of hands,
and the auld lord might expect twa turns frae them, when the new-comer canna get ane. A dour
and fractious set they were, thae tenants of Ravenswood, and ill to live wi' when they dinna
ken their master; and if your master put them mad ance, the whole country will not put them down."

"Troth," said Mr. Lockhard, "an such be the case, I think the wisest thing for us a' wad be
to hammer up a match between your young lord and our winsome young leddy up-bye there; and
Sir William might just stitch your auld barony to her gown-sleeve, and he wad sune cuitle another
out o' somebody else, sic a lang head as he has."

Caleb shook his head. "I wish," he said--"I wish that may answer, Mr. Lockhard. There are auld
prophecies about this house I wad like ill to see fulfilled wi' my auld een, that has seen
evil eneugh already."

"Pshaw! never mind freits," said his brother butler; "if the young folk liked ane anither,
they wad make a winsome couple. But, to say truth, there is a leddy sits in our hall-neuk,
maun have her hand in that as weel as in every other job. But there's no harm in drinking to
their healths, and I will fill Mrs. Mysie a cup of Mr. Girder's canary."

While they thus enjoyed themselves in the kitchen, the company in the hall were not less pleasantly
engaged. So soon as Ravenswood had determined upon giving the Lord Keeper such hospitality
as he had to offer, he deemed it incumbent on him to assume the open and courteous brow of
a well-pleased host. It has been often remarked, that when a man commences by acting a character,
he frequently ends by adopting it in good earnest. In the course of an hour or two, Ravenswood,
to his own surprise, found himself in the situation of one who frankly does his best to entertain
welcome and honoured guests. How much of this change in his disposition was to be ascribed
to the beauty and simplicity of Miss Ashton, to the readiness with which she accommodated herself
to the inconveniences of her situation; how much to the smooth and plausible conversation of
the Lord Keeper, remarkably gifted with those words which win the ear, must be left to the
reader's ingenuity to conjecture. But Ravenswood was insensible to neither.

The Lord Keeper was a veteran statesman, well acquainted with courts and cabinets, and intimate
with all the various turns of public affairs during the last eventful years of the 17th century.
He could talk, from his own knowledge, of men and events, in a way which failed not to win
attention, and had the peculiar art, while he never said a word which committed himself, at
the same time to persuade the hearer that he was speaking without the least shadow of scrupulous
caution or reserve. Ravenswood, in spite of his prejudices and real grounds of resentment,
felt himself at once amused and instructed in listening to him, while the statesman, whose
inward feelings had at first so much impeded his efforts to make himself known, had now regained
all the ease and fluency of a silver-tongued lawyer of the very highest order.

His daughter did not speak much, but she smiled; and what she did say argued a submissive gentleness,
and a desire to give pleasure, which, to a proud man like Ravenswood, was more fascinating
than the most brilliant wit. Above all, he could not be observe that, whether from gratitude
or from some other motive, he himself, in his deserted and unprovided hall, was as much the
object of respectful attention to his guests as he would have been when surrounded by all the
appliances and means of hospitality proper to his high birth. All deficiencies passed unobserved,
or, if they did not escape notice, it was to praise the substitutes which Caleb had contrived
to supply the want of the usual accommodations. Where a smile was unavoidable, it was a very
good-humoured one, and often coupled with some well-turned compliment, to show how much the
guests esteemed the merits of their noble host, how little they thought of the inconveniences
with which they were surrounded. I am not sure whether the pride of being found to outbalance,
in virtue of his own personal merit, all the disadvantages of fortune, did not make as favourable
an impression upon the haughty heart of the Master of Ravenswood as the conversation of the
father and the beauty of Lucy Ashton.

The hour of repose arrived. The Keeper and his daughter retired to their apartments, which
were "decored" more properly than could have been anticipated. In making the necessary arrangements,
Mysie had indeed enjoyed the assistance of a gossip who had arrived from the village upon an
exploratory expedition, but had been arrested by Caleb, and impressed into the domestic drudgery
of the evening; so that, instead of returning home to describe the dress and person of the
grand young lady, she found herself compelled to be active in the domestic economy of Wolf's Crag.

According to the custom of the time, the Master of Ravenswood attended the Lord Keeper to his
apartment, followed by Caleb, who placed on the table, with all the ceremonials due to torches
of wax, two rudely-framed tallow-candles, such as in those days were only used by the peasantry,
hooped in paltry clasps of wire, which served for candlesticks. He then disappeared, and presently
entered with two earthen flagons (the china, he said, had been little used since my lady's
time), one filled with canary wine, the other with brandy. The canary sack, unheeding all probabilities
of detection, he declared had been twenty years in the cellars of Wolf's Crag, "though it was
not for him to speak before their honours; the brandy--it was weel-kenn'd liquor, as mild as
mead and as strong as Sampson; it had been in the house ever since the memorable revel, in
which auld Micklestob had been slain at the head of the stair by Jamie of Jenklebrae, on account
of the honour of the worshipful Lady Muirend, wha was in some sort an ally of the family; natheless----"

"But to cut that matter short, Mr. Caleb," said the Keeper, "perhaps you will favour me with
a ewer of water."

"God forbid your lordship should drink water in this family," replied Caleb, "to the disgrace
of so honourable an house!"

"Nevertheless, if his lordship have a fancy," said the Master, smiling, "I think you might
indulge him; for, if I mistake not, there has been water drank here at no distant date, and
with good relish too."

"To be sure, if his lordship has a fancy," said Caleb; and re-entering with a jug of pure element--"He
will scarce find such water onywhere as is drawn frae the well at Wolf's Crag; nevertheless----"

"Nevertheless, we must leave the Lord Keeper to his repose in this poor chamber of ours," said
the Master of Ravenswood, interrupting his talkative domestic, who immediately turning to the
doorway, with a profound reverence, prepared to usher his master from the secret chamber.

But the Lord Keeper prevented his host's departure.--"I have but one word to say to the Master
of Ravenswood, Mr. Caleb, and I fancy he will excuse your waiting."

With a second reverence, lower than the former, Caleb withdrew; and his master stood motionless,
expecting, with considerable embarrassment, what was to close the events of a day fraught with
unexpected incidents.

"Master of Ravenswood," said Sir William Ashton, with some embarrassment, "I hope you understand
the Christian law too well to suffer the sun to set upon your anger."

The Master blushed and replied, "He had no occasion that evening to exercise the duty enjoined
upon him by his Christian faith."

"I should have thought otherwise," said his guest, "considering the various subjects of dispute
and litigation which have unhappily occurred more frequently than was desirable or necessary
betwixt the late honourable lord, your father, and myself."

"I could wish, my lord," said Ravenswood, agitated by suppressed emotion, "that reference to
these circumstances should be made anywhere rather than under my father's roof."

"I should have felt the delicacy of this appeal at another time," said Sir William Ashton,
"but now I must proceed with what I mean to say. I have suffered too much in my own mind, from
the false delicacy which prevented my soliciting with earnestness, what indeed I frequently
requested, a personal communing with your father: much distress of mind to him and to me might
have been prevented."

"It is true," said Ravenswood, after a moment's reflection, "I have heard my father say your
lordship had proposed a personal interview."

"Proposed, my dear Master? I did indeed propose it; but I ought to have begged, entreated,
beseeched it. I ought to have torn away the veil, which interested persons had stretched betwixt
us, and shown myself as I was, willing to sacrifice a considerable part even of my legal rights,
in order to conciliate feelings so natural as his must be allowed to have been. Let me say
for myself, my young friend, for so I will call you, that had your father and I spent the same
time together which my good fortune has allowed me to-day to pass in your company, it is possible
the land might yet have enjoyed one of the most respectable of its ancient nobility, and I
should have been spared the pain of parting in enmity from a person whose general character
I so much admired and honoured."

He put his handkerchief to his eyes. Ravenswood also was moved, but awaited in silence the
progress of this extraordinary communication.

"It is necessary," continued the Lord Keeper, "and proper that you should understand, that
there have been many points betwixt us, in which, although I judged it proper that there should
be an exact ascertainment of my legal rights by the decree of a court of justice, yet it was
never my intention to press them beyond the verge of equity."

"My lord," said the Master of Ravenswood, "it is unnecessary to pursue this topic farther.
What the law will give you, or has given you, you enjoy--or you shall enjoy; neither my father
nor I myself would have received anything on the footing of favour."

"Favour! No, you misunderstand me," resumed the Keeper; "or rather you are no lawyer. A right
may be good in law, and ascertained to be so, which yet a man of honour may not in every case
care to avail himself of."

"I am sorry for it, my lord," said the Master.

"Nay, nay," retorted his guest, "you speak like a young counsellor; your spirit goes before
your wit. There are many things still open for decision betwixt us. Can you blame me, an old
man desirous of peace, and in the castle of a young nobleman who has saved my daughter's life
and my own, that I am desirous, anxiously desirous, that these should be settled on the most
liberal principles?" The old man kept fast hold of the Master's passive hand as he spoke, and
made it impossible for him, be his predetermination what it would, to return any other than
an acquiescent reply; and wishing his guest good-night, he postponed farther conference until
the next morning.

Ravenswood hurried into the hall, where he was to spend the night, and for a time traversed
its pavement with a disordered and rapid pace. His mortal foe was under his roof, yet his sentiments
towards him were neither those of a feudal enemy nor of a true Christian. He felt as if he
could neither forgive him in the one character, nor follow forth his vengeance in the other,
but that he was making a base and dishonourable composition betwixt his resentment against
the father and his affection for his daughter. He cursed himself, as he hurried to and fro
in the pale moonlight, and more ruddy gleams of the expiring wood-fire. He threw open and shut
the latticed windows with violence, as if alike impatient of the admission and exclusion of
free air. At length, however, the torrent of passion foamed off its madness, and he flung himself
into the chair which he proposed as his place of repose for the night.

"If, in reality," such were the calmer thoughts that followed the first tempest of his passion--"if,
in reality, this man desires no more than the law allows him--if he is willing to adjust even
his acknowledged rights upon an equitable footing, what could be my father's cause of complaint?--what
is mine? Those from who we won our ancient possessions fell under the sword of my ancestors,
and left lands and livings to the conquerors; we sink under the force of the law, now too powerful
for the Scottish cavalry. Let us parley with the victors of the day, as if we had been besieged
in our fortress, and without hope of relief. This man may be other than I have thought him;
and his daughter--but I have resolved not to think of her."

He wrapt his cloak around him, fell asleep, and dreamed of Lucy Ashton till daylight gleamed
through the lattices.

CHAPTER XV.

     We worldly men, when we see friends and kinsmen
     Past hope sunk in their fortunes, lend no hand
     To lift them up, but rather set our feet
     Upon their heads to press them to the bottom,
     As I must yield with you I practised it;
     But now I see you in a way to rise,
     I can and will assist you.

     New Way to Pay Old Debts.

THE Lord Keeper carried with him, to a couch harder than he was accustomed to stretch himself
upon, the same ambitious thoughts and political perplexities which drive sleep from the softest
down that ever spread a bed of state. He had sailed long enough amid the contending tides and
currents of the time to be sensible of their peril, and of the necessity of trimming his vessel
to the prevailing wind, if he would have her escape shipwreck in the storm. The nature of his
talents, and the timorousness of disposition connected with them, had made him assume the pliability
of the versatile old Earl of Northampton, who explained the art by which he kept his ground
during all the changes of state, from the reign of Henry VIII. to that of Elizabeth, by the
frank avowal, that he was born of the willow, not of the oak. It had accordingly been Sir William
Ashton's policy, on all occasions, to watch the changes in the political horizon, and, ere
yet the conflict was decided, to negotiate some interest for himself with the party most likely
to prove victorious. His time-serving disposition was well-known, and excited the contempt
of the more daring leaders of both factions in the state. But his talents were of a useful
and practical kind, and his legal knowledge held in high estimation; and they so far counterbalanced
other deficiencies that those in power were glad to use and to reward, though without absolutely
trusting or greatly respecting, him.

The Marquis of A---- had used his utmost influence to effect a change in the Scottish cabinet,
and his schemes had been of late so well laid and so ably supported, that there appeared a
very great chance of his proving ultimately successful. He did not, however, feel so strong
or so confident as to neglect any means of drawing recruits to his standard. The acquisition
of the Lord Keeper was deemed of some importance, and a friend, perfectly acquainted with his
circumstances and character, became responsible for his political conversion.

When this gentleman arrived at Ravenswood Castle upon a visit, the real purpose of which was
disguised under general courtesy, he found the prevailing fear which at present beset the Lord
Keeper was that of danger to his own person from the Master of Ravenswood. The language which
the blind sibyl, Old Alice, had used; the sudden appearance of the Master, armed, and within
his precincts, immediately after he had been warned against danger from him; the cold and haughty
return received in exchange for the acknowledgments with which he loaded him for his timely
protection, had all made a strong impression on his imagination.

So soon as the Marquis's political agent found how the wind sate, he began to insinuate fears
and doubts of another kind, scarce less calculated to affect the Lord Keeper. He inquired with
seeming interest, whether the proceedings in Sir William's complicated litigation with the
Ravenswood family were out of court, and settled without the possibility of appeal. The Lord
Keeper answered in the affirmative; but his interrogator was too well informed to be imposed
upon. He pointed out to him, by unanswerable arguments, that some of the most important points
which had been decided in his favour against the house of Ravenswood were liable, under the
Treaty of Union, to be reviewed by the British House of Peers, a court of equity of which the
Lord Keeper felt an instinctive dread. This course came instead of an appeal to the old Scottish
Parliament, or, as it was technically termed, "a protestation for remeid in law."

The Lord Keeper, after he had for some time disputed the legality of such a proceeding, was
compelled, at length, to comfort himself with the improbability of the young Master of Ravenswood's
finding friends in parliament capable of stirring in so weighty an affair.

"Do not comfort yourself with that false hope," said his wily friend; "it is possible that,
in the next session of Parliament, young Ravenswood may find more friends and favour even than
your lordship."

"That would be a sight worth seeing," said the Keeper, scornfully.

"And yet," said his friend, "such things have been seen ere now, and in our own time. There
are many at the head of affairs even now that a few years ago were under hiding for their lives;
and many a man now dines on plate of silver that was fain to eat his crowdy without a bicker;
and many a high head has been brought full low among us in as short a space. Scott of Scotsarvet's
Staggering State of Scots Statesmen, of which curious memoir you showed me a manuscript, has
been outstaggered in our time."

The Lord Keeper answered with a deep sigh, "That these mutations were no new sights in Scotland,
and had been witnessed long before the time of the satirical author he had quoted. It was many
a long year," he said, "since Fordun had quoted as an ancient proverb, 'Neque dives, neque
fortis, sed nec sapiens Scotus, praedominante invidia, diu durabit in terra.'"

"And be assured, my esteemed friend," was the answer, "that even your long services to the
state, or deep legal knowledge, will not save you, or render your estate stable, if the Marquis
of A---- comes in with a party in the British Parliament. You know that the deceased Lord Ravenswood
was his near ally, his lady being fifth in descent from the Knight of Tillibardine; and I am
well assured that he will take young Ravenswood by the hand, and be his very good lord and
kinsman. Why should he not? The Master is an active and stirring young fellow, able to help
himself with tongue and hands; and it is such as he that finds friends among their kindred,
and not those unarmed and unable Mephibosheths that are sure to be a burden to every one that
takes them up. And so, if these Ravenswood cases be called over the coals in the House of Peers,
you will find that the Marquis will have a crow to pluck with you."

"That would be an evil requital," said the Lord Keeper, "for my long services to the state,
and the ancient respect in which I have held his lordship's honourable family and person."

"Ay, but," rejoined the agent of the Marquis, "it is in vain to look back on past service and
auld respect, my lord; it will be present service and immediate proofs of regard which, in
these sliddery times, will be expected by a man like the Marquis."

The Lord Keeper now saw the full drift of his friend's argument, but he was too cautious to
return any positive answer.

"He knew not," he said, "the service which the Lord Marquis could expect from one of his limited
abilities, that had not always stood at his command, still saving and reserving his duty to
his king and country."

Having thus said nothing, while he seemed to say everything, for the exception was calculated
to cover whatever he might afterwards think proper to bring under it, Sir William Ashton changed
the conversation, nor did he again permit the same topic to be introduced. His guest departed,
without having brought the wily old statesman the length of committing himself, or of pledging
himself to any future line of conduct, but with the certainty that he had alarmed his fears
in a most sensible point, and laid a foundation for future and farther treaty.

When he rendered an account of his negotiation to the Marquis, they both agreed that the Keeper
ought not to be permitted to relapse into security, and that he should be plied with new subjects
of alarm, especially during the absence of his lady. They were well aware that her proud, vindictive,
and predominating spirit would be likely to supply him with the courage in which he was deficient;
that she was immovably attached to the party now in power, with whom she maintained a close
correspondence and alliance; and that she hated, without fearing, the Ravenswood family (whose
more ancient dignity threw discredit on the newly acquired grandeur of her husband) to such
a degree that she would have perilled the interest of her own house to have the prospect of
altogether crushing that of her enemy.

But Lady Ashton was now absent. The business which had long detained her in Edinburgh had afterwards
induced her to travel to London, not without the hope that she might contribute her share to
disconcert the intrigues of the Marquis at court; for she stood high in favour with the celebrated
Sarah Duchesss of Marlborough, to whom, in point of character, she bore considerable resemblance.
It was necessary to press her husband hard before her return; and, as a preparatory step, the
Marquis wrote to the Master of Ravenswood the letter which we rehearsed in a former chapter.
It was cautiously worded, so as to leave it in the power of the writer hereafter to take as
deep or as slight an interest in the fortunes of his kinsmen as the progress of his own schemes
might require. But however unwilling, as a statesman, the Marquis might be to commit himself,
or assume the character of a patron, while he had nothing to give away, it must be said to
his honour that he felt a strong inclination effectually to befriend the Master of Ravenswood,
as well as to use his name as a means of alarming the terrors of the Lord Keeper.

As the messenger who carried this letter was to pass near the house of the Lord Keeper, he
had it in direction that, in the village adjoining to the park-gate of the castle, his horse
should lose a shoe, and that, while it was replaced by the smith of the place, he should express
the utmost regret for the necessary loss of time, and in the vehemence of his impatience give
it to be understood that he was bearing a message from the Marquis of A---- to the Master of
Ravenswood upon a matter of life and death.

This news, with exaggerations, was speedily carried from various quarters to the ears of the
Lord Keeper, and each reporter dwelt upon the extreme impatience of the courier, and the surprising
short time in which he had executed his journey. The anxious statesman heard in silence; but
in private Lockhard received orders to watch the courier on his return, to waylay him in the
village, to ply him with liquor, if possible, and to use all means, fair or foul, to learn
the contents of the letter of which he was the bearer. But as this plot had been foreseen,
the messenger returned by a different and distant road, and thus escaped the snare that was
laid for him.

After he had been in vain expected for some time, Mr. Dingwall had orders to made especial
inquiry among his clients of Wolf's Hope, whether such a domestic belonging to the Marquis
of A----had actually arrived at the neighbouring castle. This was easily ascertained; for Caleb
had been in the village one morning by five o'clock, to borrow "twa chappins of ale and a kipper"
for the messenger's refreshment, and the poor fellow had been ill for twenty-four hours at
Luckie Sma'trash's, in consequence of dining upon "saut saumon and sour drink." So that the
existence of a correspondence betwixt the Marquis and his distressed kinsman, which Sir William
Ashton had sometimes treated as a bugbear, was proved beyond the possibility of further doubt.

The alarm of the Lord Keeper became very serious; since the Claim of Right, the power of appealing
from the decisions of the civil court to the Estates of Parliament, which had formerly been
held incompetent, had in many instances been claimed, and in some allowed, and he had no small
reason to apprehend the issue, if the English House of Lords should be disposed to act upon
an appeal from the Master of Ravenswood "for remeid in law." It would resolve into an equitable
claim, and be decided, perhaps, upon the broad principles of justice, which were not quite
so favourable to the Lord Keeper as those of strict law. Besides, judging, though most inaccurately,
from courts which he had himself known in the unhappy times preceding the Scottish Union, the
Keeper might have too much right to think that, in the House to which his lawsuits were to
be transferred, the old maxim might prevail which was too well recognised in Scotland in former
times: "Show me the man, and I'll show you the law." The high and unbiased character of English
judicial proceedings was then little known in Scotland, and the extension of them to that country
was one of the most valuable advantages which it gained by the Union. But this was a blessing
which the Lord Keeper, who had lived under another system, could not have the means of foreseeing.
In the loss of his political consequence, he anticipated the loss of his lawsuit. Meanwhile,
every report which reached him served to render the success of the Marquis's intrigues the
more probable, and the Lord Keeper began to think it indispensable that he should look round
for some kind of protection against the coming storm. The timidity of his temper induced him
to adopt measures of compromise and conciliation. The affair of the wild bull, properly managed,
might, he thought, be made to facilitate a personal communication and reconciliation betwixt
the Master and himself. He would then learn, if possible, what his own ideas were of the extent
of his rights, and the means of enforcing them; and perhaps matters might be brought to a compromise,
where one party was wealthy and the other so very poor. A reconciliation with Ravenswood was
likely to give him an opportunity to play his own game with the Marquis of A----. "And besides,"
said he to himself, "it will be an act of generosity to raise up the heir of this distressed
family; and if he is to be warmly and effectually befriended by the new government, who knows
but my virtue may prove its own reward?"

Thus thought Sir William Ashton, covering with no unusual self-delusion his interested views
with a hue of virtue; and having attained this point, his fancy strayed still farther. He began
to bethink himself, "That if Ravenswood was to have a distinguished place of power and trust,
and if such a union would sopite the heavier part of his unadjusted claims, there might be
worse matches for his daughter Lucy: the Master might be reponed against the attainder. Lord
Ravenswood was an ancient title, and the alliance would, in some measure, legitimate his own
possession of the greater part of the Master's spoils, and make the surrender of the rest a
subject of less bitter regret."

With these mingled and multifarious plans occupying his head, the Lord Keeper availed himself
of my Lord Bittlebrains's repeated invitation to his residence, and thus came within a very
few miles of Wolf's Crag. Here he found the lord of the mansion absent, but was courteously
received by the lady, who expected her husband's immediate return. She expressed her particular
delight at seeing Miss Ashton, and appointed the hounds to be taken out for the Lord Keeper's
special amusement. He readily entered into the proposal, as giving him an opportunity to reconnoitre
Wolf's Crag, and perhaps to make some acquaintance with the owner, if he should be tempted
from his desolate mansion by the chase. Lockhard had his orders to endeavour on his part to
make some acquaintance with the inmates of the castle, and we have seen how he played his part.

The accidental storm did more to further the Lord Keeper's plan of forming a personal acquaintance
with young Ravenswood than his most sanguine expectations could have anticipated. His fear
of the young nobleman's personal resentment had greatly decreased since he considered him as
formidable from his legal claims and the means he might have of enforcing them. But although
he thought, not unreasonably, that only desperate circumstances drove men on desperate measures,
it was not without a secret terror, which shook his heart within him, that he first felt himself
inclosed within the desolate Tower of Wolf's Crag; a place so well fitted, from solitude and
strength, to be a scene of violence and vengeance. The stern reception at first given to them
by the Master of Ravenswood, and the difficulty he felt in explaining to that injured nobleman
what guests were under the shelter of his roof, did not soothe these alarms; so that when Sir
William Ashton heard the door of the courtyard shut behind him with violence, the words of
Alice rung in his ears, "That he had drawn on matters too hardly with so fierce a race as those
of Ravenswood, and that they would bide their time to be avenged."

The subsequent frankness of the Master's hospitality, as their acquaintance increased, abated
the apprehensions these recollections were calculated to excite; and it did not escape Sir
William Ashton, that it was to Lucy's grace and beauty he owed the change in their host's behavior.

All these thoughts thronged upon him when he took possession of the secret chamber. The iron
lamp, the unfurnished apartment, more resembling a prison than a place of ordinary repose,
the hoarse and ceaseless sound of the waves rushing against the base of the rock on which the
castle was founded, saddened and perplexed his mind. To his own successful machinations, the
ruin of the family had been in a great measure owing, but his disposition was crafty, and not
cruel; so that actually to witness the desolation and distress he had himself occasioned was
as painful to him as it would be to the humane mistress of a family to superintend in person
the execution of the lambs and poultry which are killed by her own directions. At the same
time, when he thought of the alternative of restoring to Ravenswood a large proportion of his
spoils, or of adopting, as an ally and member of his own family, the heir of this impoverished
house, he felt as the spider may be supposed to do when his whole web, the intricacies of which
had been planned with so much art, is destroyed by the chance sweep of a broom. And then, if
he should commit himself too far in this matter, it gave rise to a perilous question, which
many a good husband, when under temptation to act as a free agent, has asked himself without
being able to return a satisfactory answer: "What will my wife--what will Lady Ashton say?"
On the whole, he came at length to the resolution in which minds of a weaker cast so often
take refuge. He resolved to watch events, to take advantage of circumstances as they occurred,
and regulate his conduct accordingly. In this spirit of temporising policy, he at length composed
his mind to rest.

CHAPTER XVI.

     A slight note I have about me for you, for the delivery of which
     you must excuse me.  It is an offer that friendship calls upon me
     to do, and no way offensive to you, since I desire nothing but
     right upon both sides.

     King and no King.

WHEN Ravenswood and his guest met in the morning, the gloom of the Master's spirit had in part
returned. He, also, had passed a night rather of reflection that of slumber; and the feelings
which he could not but entertain towards Lucy Ashton had to support a severe conflict against
those which he had so long nourished against her father. To clasp in friendship the hand of
the enemy of his house, to entertain him under his roof, to exchange with him the courtesies
and the kindness of domestic familiarity, was a degradation which his proud spirit could not
be bent to without a struggle.

But the ice being once broken, the Lord Keeper was resolved it should not have time against
to freeze. It had been part of his plan to stun and confuse Ravenswood's ideas, by a complicated
and technical statement of the matters which had been in debate betwixt their families, justly
thinking that it would be difficult for a youth of his age to follow the expositions of a practical
lawyer, concerning actions of compt and reckoning, and of multiplepoindings, and adjudications
and wadsets, proper and improper, and poindings of the ground, and declarations of the expiry
of the legal. "Thus," thought Sir William, "I shall have all the grace of appearing perfectly
communicative, while my party will derive very little advantage from anything I may tell him."
He therefore took Ravenswood aside into the deep recess of a window in the hall, and resuming
the discourse of the proceeding evening, expressed a hope that his young friend would assume
some patience, in order to hear him enter in a minute and explanatory detail of those unfortunate
circumstances in which his late honourable father had stood at variance with the Lord Keeper.
The Master of Ravenswood coloured highly, but was silent; and the Lord Keeper, though not greatly
approving the sudden heightening of his auditor's complexion, commenced the history of a bond
for twenty thousand merks, advanced by his father to the father of Allan Lord Ravenswood, and
was proceeding to detail the executorial proceedings by which this large sum had been rendered
a debitum fundi, when he was interrupted by the Master.

"It is not in this place," he said, "that I can hear Sir William Ashton's explanation of the
matters in question between us. It is not here, where my father died of a broken heart, that
I can with decency or temper investigate the cause of his distress. I might remember that I
was a son, and forget the duties of a host. A time, however, there must come, when these things
shall be discussed, in a place and in a presence where both of us will have equal freedom to
speak and to hear."

"Any time," the Lord Keeper said, "any place, was alike to those who sought nothing but justice.
Yet it would seem he was, in fairness, entitled to some premonition respecting the grounds
upon which the Master proposed to impugn the whole train of legal proceedings, which had been
so well and ripely advised in the only courts competent."

"Sir William Ashton," answered the Master, with warmth, "the lands which you now occupy were
granted to my remote ancestor for services done with his sword against the English invaders.
How they have glided from us by a train of proceedings that seem to be neither sale, nor mortgage,
nor adjudication for debt, but a nondescript and entangled mixture of all these rights; how
annual rent has been accumulated upon principal, and no nook or coign of legal advantage left
unoccupied, until our interest in our hereditary property seems to have melted away like an
icicle in thaw--all this you understand better than I do. I am willing, however, to suppose,
from the frankness of your conduct towards me, that I may in a great measure have mistaken
your personal character, and that things may have appeared right and fitting to you, a skilful
and practised lawyer, which to my ignorant understanding seem very little short of injustice
and gross oppression."

"And you, my dear Master," answered Sir William--"you, permit me to say, have been equally
misrepresented to me. I was taught to believe you a fierce, imperious, hot-headed youth, ready,
at the slightest provocation, to throw your sword into the scales of justice, and to appeal
to those rude and forcible measures from which civil polity has long protected the people of
Scotland. Then, since we were mutually mistaken in each other, why should not the young nobleman
be willing to listen to the old lawyer, while, at least, he explains the points of difference
betwixt them?"

"No, my lord," answered Ravenswood; "it is in the House of British Peers, whose honour must
be equal to their rank--it is in the court of last resort that we must parley together. The
belted lords of Britain, her ancient peers, must decide, if it is their will that a house,
not the least noble of their members, shall be stripped of their possessions, the reward of
the patriotism of generations, as the pawn of a wretched mechanic becomes forfeit to the usurer
the instant the hour of redemption has passed away. If they yield to the grasping severity
of the creditor, and to the gnawing usury that eats into our lands as moths into a raiment,
it will be of more evil consequence to them and their posterity than to Edgar Ravenswood. I
shall still have my sword and my cloak, and can follow the profession of arms wherever a trumpet
shall sound."

