Varnhorst, who had been beside me during the whole day, now exhibited great delight. "I told
you," said he, "that Clairfait would turn out well. I see that he has been taught in our school.
Observe that manoeuvre;" he continued his comment with increasing force of gesture--"That was
the Great Frederic's favourite, the oblique formation. The finest invention in tactics, with
that he gained Rosbach, and beat the French and Austrians; with that he gained the battle of
Breslau; and with that he gained the grand fight of Torgau, and finished the war. Yet the king
always said that he had learned the manoeuvre from Epaminondas, and was only fighting the battle
of Leuctra over again. But look there!" He pointed to a rising ground, a bluff of the forest
ridge, to which a battalion of sharpshooters were hastening; it had seemed destitute of defence,
and the sharpshooters were already beginning to scramble up its sides; when on the instant
a large body of the enemy which had been covered by the forest, rushed upon its summit with
a shout, and poured down a general volley. The whole Prussian line returned it by one tremendous
discharge. The drums and trumpets struck up, the battalions and squadrons advanced, singing
their national hymn. The skirmishers poured forward and the battle began. How shall I speak
of what I felt at that moment; the sensation was indescribable! It was mingled of all feelings
but personal. I was absorbed in that glorious roar, in that bold burst of human struggle, in
all that was wild, ardent, and terrible in the power of man. I had not a thought of any thing
but of the martial pomp and spirit-stilling grandeur of the scene before me. I was aroused
from my contemplations by the loud laugh of my veteran friend; he was trying the benefit of
a large brandy flask, which I remembered, and with some not very respectful opinion of his
temperance, to have seen him place in one of his holsters at our visit to the suttlers. He
now offered it to me. "You look wretchedly pale," said he; "our kind of life is too rough for
you gentlemen diplomats, and you will find this glass right Nantz, the very best thing, if
not the only good thing, that its country has to give." This took me down from my heroics at
once, the brandy was first-rate, and I found myself restored to the level of the world at once,
and infinitely the better for the operation. We now followed the advance of the troops. The
leading columns had already forced their way into the entrance of the forest; but it was a
forest of three leagues' depth and twice the number in length, a wooded province, and the way
was fought foot by foot. It is only justice to the French to say, that they fought well--held
the pass boldly--often charged our advance, and gave way only when they were on the point of
being surrounded. But our superiority of discipline and numbers combined, did not suffer the
success to be for a moment doubtful. Still, as we followed, the battle raged in the depths
of the forest, already as dark as if night had come on--our only light the incessant illumination
of the musketry, and the bursts of fire from the howitzers and guns.

As we were standing on the last height at the entrance of the defile, "Look round," exclaimed
Varnhorst, "and take your first lesson in our art, if you ever adopt the trade of soldiership.
The Duke has outwitted the Frenchman. I suspected something of this sort in the morning, when
I first heard his guns so far to the right. I allow that the enemy may be puzzled for a while
who has five passes to defend, with half a dozen leagues between them, and a Prussian army
in front ready to make him choose. He has evidently drawn off the strength of his troops to
the Duke's point of attack, and has stripped the wing before us. Clairfait's mass has been
thrown upon it, and the day is our own. Onward."

The roads and the surrounding glades gave fearful evidence of the obstinacy of the struggle;
but it also gave some curious evidence of the force of habit in making light of the troubles
of life. The cavalry, which had been comparatively unemployed, from the nature of the service
during the day, had taken advantage of the opportunity to consult their own comfort as much
as possible. On the flank and rear of the infantry the troopers had taken the whole affair
en amateur, and had lit their campfires, cooked their rations, handsomely augmented by the
general spoliation of the hen-coops within many a league. Something like a fair was established
round them by the suttlers; while the shells were actually falling and many a branch was shattered
over their banquets by the shot which constantly whizzed through the trees. But, "Vive la fortune!"
Even the sober Teuton and the rough son of the Bannat could enjoy the few moments that war
gives to festivity, and what the next night or morning might bring was not suffered to disturb
their sense of "schnapps," and their supper.

The trampling of horses in our rear, and the galloping of the chasseurs of the ducal escort,
now told us that the generalissimo was at hand. He rode up in high spirits, received our congratulations
with princely courtesy, and bestowed praises on the troops, and especially on Clairfait, which
made the count's dark features absolutely glow. The whole group rode together until we reached
the open country. A decisive success had unquestionably been gained; and in war the first success
is of proverbial importance. On this point, the duke laid peculiar weight on the few words
which he could spare to me.

"M. Marston," he observed, taking me cordially by the hand, "we are henceforth more than friends,
we are camarades. We have been in the field together; and, with us Prussians, that is a tie
for life."

I made my acknowledgments for his highness's condescension. Business then took the lead.

"You will now have a good despatch to transmit to our friends in England. The Count Clairfait
has shown himself worthy of his reputation. I understand that the enemy's force consisted chiefly
of the household troops of France; if so, we have beaten the best soldiers of the kingdom,
and the rest can give us but little trouble. You will remark upon these points; and now for Paris."

A cry, or rather a shout of assent from the circle of officers, echoed the words, and we all
put spurs to our horses, and followed the cortège through the noble old groves. But before
we reached its confines, the firing had wholly ceased, and the enemy were hurrying down the
slope of the Argonne, and crossing in great disorder a plain which separated them from their
main body. Our light troops and cavalry were dashing in pursuit, and prisoners were continually
taken. From the spot where we halted, the light of the sinking day showed us the rapid breaking
up of the fugitive column, the guns, one by one, left behind; the muskets thrown away; and
the soldiers scattered, until our telescopes could discover scarcely more than a remnant reaching
the protection of the distant hill.

We supped that night on the green sward. The duke had invited his own staff, and that of Clairfait,
to his tent, in honour of the day, and I never spent a gayer evening. His incomparable finish
of manners, mingled with the cordiality which no man could more naturally assume when it was
his pleasure, and his mixture of courtly pleasantry with the bold humour which campaigning,
in some degree, teaches to every one, made him, if possible, more delightful, to my conception,
than even in our first interview. Towards the close of the supper, which, like every thing
else round him, was worthy of Sardanapalus, he addressed himself to me, and giving a most gracious
personal opinion of what my "services had merited from the English minister," said that, "limited
as his own means of rewarding zeal and ability might be, he begged of me to retain a slight
memorial of his friendship, and of our day together on the heights of Argonne." Taking from
the hand of Guiscard the riband and star of the "Order of Merit," the famous order instituted
by the Great Frederic, he placed it round my neck, and proposed my health to the table as a
"Knight of Prussia."

This was a flattering distinction, and, if I could have had entire faith in all the complimentary
language addressed to me by the sitters at that stately table, I should have had visions of
very magnificent things. But there is no antidote to vanity equal to an empty purse. If I had
been born to one of the leviathan fortunes of our peerage, I might possibly have imagined myself
possessed of all the talents of mankind, and with all its distinctions waiting for my acceptance;
but I never could forget the grave lesson that I was a younger son. I sat, like the Roman in
his triumph, with the slave, to lecture him, behind. However, I had a more ample evidence of
the sincerity with which those compliments were paid, in the higher degree of trust reposed
in me from day to day.

After the repast was ended, and the principal part of the guests had withdrawn, I was desired
to wait for the communication of important intelligence--Guiscard and Varnhorst being the only
officers of the staff who remained. A variety of papers, taken in the portfolio of one of the
French generals who had fallen in the engagement of the day, were laid before us, and our little
council proceeded to examine them. They were of a very various kind, and no bad epitome of
the mind of a gallant and crackbrained coxcomb. Reflections on the conduct of the Allied armies,
and conjectures on their future proceedings--both of so fantastic a kind, that the duke's gravity
often gave way, and even the grim Guiscard sometimes wore a smile. Then came in a letter from
some "confrère" in Paris, a tissue of gossip and grumbling, anecdotes of the irregularities
of private life, and merciless abuse of the leaders of party. Interspersed with those were
epistles of a more tender description; from which it appeared that the general's heart was
as capacious as his ambition, and that he contrived to give his admiration to half a dozen
of the élite of Parisian beauty at a time. Varnhorst was delighted with this portion of the
correspondence; even the presence of the duke could not prevent him from bursting into explosions
of laughter; and he ended by imploring possession of the whole, as models of his future correspondence,
in any emergency which compelled him to put pen to paper in matters of the sex. But nearly
the last of the documents in the portfolio was one deserving of all attention. It was a statement
of the measures which had been enjoined by the Republican government for raising the population
in arms; and, as an appendix, the muster-roll of the various corps which were already on their
way to join the army of Dumourier. The duke read this paper with a countenance from which all
gaiety had vanished and handed it to Guiscard to read aloud.

"What think you of that, gentlemen?" asked the duke, in his most deliberate tone.

Varnhorst, in his usual unhesitating style, said--"It tells us only that we shall have some
more fighting; but, as we are sure to beat them, the more the better. Your highness knows as
well as any man alive, that the maxim of our great master was, 'Begin the war by fighting as
many pitched battles as you can. Skirmishes teach discipline to the rabble; allow the higher
orders time to escape, the government to tamper, and to encourage the resistance of all. Pitched
battles are thunderbolts; they finish the business at once; and, like the thunderbolts, they
appear to come from a source which defies resistance by man.'"

"I think," said Guiscard, with his deep physiognomy still darkening, "that we lost, what is
the most difficult of all things to recover--time."

The duke bit his lip. "How was it to be helped, Guiscard? You know the causes of the delay;
they were many and stubborn."

"Ay," was the reply, with an animation, which struck me with surprise, "as many as the blockheads
in Berlin, and as stubborn as the rock under our feet, or the Aulic council."

"Well," said the duke, turning to me, with his customary grace of manner--"What does our friend,
the Englishman, say?"

Of course, I made no pretence to giving a military opinion. I merely said, "That I had every
reliance on the experienced conduct of his highness, and on the established bravery of his army."

"The truth is, M. Marston, as Guiscard says, we have lost time, though it is no fault of ours,
and I observe, from these papers, that the enemy availed themselves of the delay, by bringing
up strong corps from every point. Still, our duty lies plain before us; we must advance, and
rescue the unfortunate royal family--we must tranquillize France, by overthrowing the rabble
influence, which now threatens to subvert all law; and having done that, we may then retire,
with the satisfaction of having fought without ambition, and been victorious without a wish
for aggrandizement." After a pause, which none attempted to interrupt, he finished by saying--"I
admit that our work is likely to become more difficult than I had supposed."

Varnhorst's sanguine nature bore this with visible reluctance. "Pardon me, your highness, but
my opinion is for instant action, whatever may happen. Let us but move to-morrow morning, and
I promise you another battle of Rosbach within the next twelve hours." The idea was congenial
to the gallantry of the duke; he smiled, and shook the bold speaker by the hand.

"I see, by these lists," said Guiscard, as he slowly perused the returns, "that the troops
with which we have been engaged to-day amounted to little more than twenty thousand men, under
the new general, Dumourier. They fought badly, I think. I scarcely expected that they would
have fought at all since the emigration of their officers. Sixteen or eighteen thousand men
are already moving up from Flanders; a strong corps under my old acquaintance and countryman,
Kellerman--and whatever he may be as an officer, a bolder and braver veteran does not exist--are
coming, by forced marches, from the Rhine; the sea-coast towns are stripped of their garrisons,
to supply a supplementary force; and I should not be surprised to find that we rather under,
than over, calculated the force which will be in line against us within a week.

"So be it!" exclaimed Varnhorst, "What are troops without discipline, and generals without
science? Both made to be beaten. The fifty thousand Prussians with us would march through Europe.
I am for the advance. That was a brilliant dash of Clairfait's this afternoon. Let us match
it to-morrow morning."

"It was admirable!" replied the duke, with the colour mounting to his cheek. "Any officer in
Europe might envy the decision, the daring, and the success. His sagacity in discovering the
weak point of the enemy's position, and his skill in its attack, deserve all praise. His flank
movement was perfectly admirable."

"Well, we have only to try him again," exclaimed Varnhorst, with increasing animation. "We
have turned the position, and taken a thousand prisoners and some guns. Our men are in high
spirits; and, if I were in command of a corps to-morrow, my only countersign would be--'Paris.'"

"Varnhorst," said the duke, "you have only anticipated my intention with regard to yourself.
You shall have a command; the three brigades of Prussian grenadiers shall be given into your
charge, and you shall operate on the flank. It is my wish to make our principal movement in
that direction, and I know you well."

Varnhorst's gratitude almost denied him words; but his countenance spoke better than his tongue.

One of those papers contained a detail of several projects by the leading members of the Assembly
for the government of France. Guiscard, after bending his wise head over them, pronounced them
all equally futile, and equally tending to democracy. The duke was of the opposite opinion,
and after a glance at the papers, observed--"that he thought some of those schemes ingenious;
but that they so closely resembled the ideas thrown out in Germany, under the patronage of
the Emperor Joseph, as to deprive them of any strong claim to originality." "No," said he gaily,
"I shall never believe that Frenchmen are changed, until I hear that there is no ballet in
Paris; you might as well tell me, that the Swiss will abjure the money which makes a part of
his distinction, as the Frenchman give up the laced coat, the powdered queue, and the order
of St Louis at his buttonhole. Those things are the man, they are his mind, his senses, himself.
He is a creation of monarchy--a clever, amusing, ingenious, and brave one; but rely upon my
knowledge of human nature--if French nature be any thing of the kind--that Paris, a capital
without balls, and a government without embroidery, will disgust him beyond all forgiveness.
It is my opinion, that if democracy were formed to-morrow, it would be danced away in a week;
or if every pedigree in France were burned in this evening's fire, you would have the Boulevards
crowded with marquises and marchionesses before the month was over. Is my friend un peu philosophe?"
He laughed at his own picture of a revolution, and his pleasantry of manner would have made
his sentiments popular on any subject. Still, our long-headed friend, Guiscard, was not to
be convinced.

"I may have every contempt," said he, in a hurried tone, "for the shallowness of idlers and
talkers attempting to mould men by theories; but the question whether France is to remain a
monarchy or not, is one of the most pressing importance to your highness's operations. It is
only in this practical sense that I should think of the topic at all. You have taken the frontier
towns, and have beaten the frontier army. Thus, so far as the regular force of France is concerned,
the war is at an end. But then comes the grand point. A country of thirty millions of people
cannot be conquered, if they can but be roused to resist. All the troops of Europe--nay, perhaps
all the princes of the earth--might perish before they fully conquered a country so large as
France, with so powerful a population. This seems even to be one of the provisions of Providence
against ambition, that an invasion of a populous country is the most difficult operation in
the world, unless the people welcome the invader. It gives every ditch the character of a fortress,
and every man the spirit of a soldier. I recollect no instance in European history, where an
established kingdom was conquered by invasion. They all stand at this hour, as they stood a
thousand years ago. In France, we found the people without leaders, without troops, and without
experience in war; of course they have not resisted our hussars and guns. But they have not
joined us. In any other country of Europe, we should have recruits crowding to ask for service.
But the French farmer shuts up his house; the peasant flies; the citizen barricades his gates,
and gives a cannon-shot for an answer. The whole land rejects us, if it dares not repel; and,
if we conquer, we shall have to colonize."

"Well, we must fight them into it," said Varnhorst.

"Or leave them to fight themselves out of it," I observed--"my national prejudices not being
favourable to reasoning at the point of the bayonet."

"Or take the chances of the world, and float on wherever the surge carries us," laughed the duke.

But Guiscard was still inflexible. His deep eye flashed with a light which I never could have
looked for under those projecting brows. His cheek was visited by a tinge which argued a passionate
interest in the subject; and, as he spoke, his tongue uttered a nervous and powerful eloquence,
which showed that Guiscard was thrown among camps, while he might have figured in senates and
councils. Of course, at this distance of time, I can offer but a faint memory of his bold and
spontaneous wisdom.

"I can see no result for France but democracy. This war is like no other since the fall of
the Roman Empire. It is a war of the passions. What man can calculate the power of those untried
elements? I implore your highness to consider with the deepest caution every step to be taken
from this moment. Europe has no other commander whom it can place in a rank with yourself;
and if you, at the head of the first army of Europe, shall find it necessary to retreat before
the peasantry of France, it will form a disastrous era in the art of war, and a still more
disastrous omen to every crowned head of Europe."

The duke looked uneasy. But he merely said with a smile--"My dear Guiscard, we must keep these
sentiments to ourselves in camp. You are a cosmopolite, and look on these things with too refined
a speculation. Like myself, you have dined and supped with the Diderots and Raynals--pleasant
people, no doubt, but dangerous advisers."

"I have!" exclaimed his excited hearer; "and neither I, nor any other man, would have met them
without admiring their talents. But I always looked on their coterie as a sort of moral lunatics,
the madder the more light they have."

"Our question is simply one of fact," said the duke.

"Yes, and of a fact on which the fate of Europe hinges at this moment! The monarchy of France
is already cloven down. What wild shape of power is now to take up its fallen sword? The sovereignty
of time, laws, and loyalty are in the grave, and the funeral rites will be bloody; but what
hand is to make the ground of that grave firm enough to bear the foundations of a new throne?

"The heels of our boots and the hoofs of our horses will trample it solid enough!" exclaimed
Varnhorst.

"The much stronger probability is," replied Guiscard, "that they will trample it into a mire
so deep, that we may reckon the Allied powers fortunate if they can draw themselves out of
it. France is revolutionized irrecoverably. Three things have been done within the last three
months, any one of which would overthrow the strongest government on the Continent. By confiscating
the property of the nobles, she has set the precedent for breaking down all property, thrown
the prize into the hands of the populace, and thus, after corrupting them by the robbery, has
bound them by the bribe. By destroying and banishing the persons of the nobility, she has done
more than extinguish an antagonist to the mob--she has swept away a protector of the people.
The provinces will henceforth be helpless; Paris will be the sovereign, and Paris itself will
have the mob for its master. And by her third step, the ruin of the church, she has given the
death-blow to the few and feeble feelings which acknowledged higher objects than those of the
hour. The pressing point for us, is, how the Revolution will act upon the military spirit of
the nation. The French nay succumb; but they make good soldiers, they are the only nation in
Europe who have an actual fondness for war, who contemplate it as a pastime, and, in spite
of all their defeats, regard it as their natural path to power."

"But they fly before our squadrons," observed the duke.

"Yes, as schoolboys fly before their master, until they are strong enough to rebel; or as the
Indians fled before the lances and horses of Cortes, until they became accustomed to them.
It would be infinitely wiser to leave the republicans to struggle with each other, than unite
them by a national attack. Mobs, like the wolves, always fall upon the first wounded. The first
faction that receives a blow in those campaigns of the Palais Royal, will have all the others
tearing it to fragments. The custom will spread; every new drop of blood will let loose a torrent
in retaliation; and when France has thus been drained of her fever, will be the time, either
to restore her, or to paralyse for ever her power of disturbing the world."

The sound of a gun from either flank of the army, reminded us that the hour of the evening
hymn had come. It broke up our council. The incomparable harmony of so many thousand voices
ascended into the air; and at the discharge of another gun, all was still once more. The night
had now fallen, and the fatigues of the day made repose welcome. But the conversation of the
last hour made me anxious to obtain all the knowledge of the actual state of the country, and
the prospects of the campaign, which could be obtained from Guiscard. Varnhorst, full of a
soldier's impetuosity, was gone to the quarters of his grenadiers, and was busy with hurried
preparations for the morrow. The duke had retired, and, through the curtains of his tent, I
could see the lamps by whose light his secretaries were in attendance, and with whom he would
probably pass the greater part of the next twelve hours. With Guiscard I continued pacing up
and down in front of our quarters, listening to the observations of a mind as richly stored,
and as original, as I have ever met. He still persisted in his conviction, "that we had come
at the wrong time, either too early or too late; before the nation had grown weary of anarchy,
and after they had triumphed over the throne. "The rebound," said he energetically, "will be
terrible. Ten times our force would be thrown away in this war. The army may drive all things
before its front; but it will be assailed in the rear, in the flanks--every where. It is like
the lava which I have seen pour down from Etna into the sea. It drove the tide before it, and
threw the water up in vapour; but they were too powerful for it after all. And there stands
the lava fixed and cold, and there roll the surges once again, burying it from the sight of man."

A sudden harmony of trumpets, from various points of the vast encampment, pierced the ear,
and in another moment the whole line of the hills was crowned with flame. The signal for lighting
the fires of the Austrian and Prussian outposts had been given, and the effect was almost magical.
In this army all things were done with a regularity almost perfect. The trumpet spoke, and
the answer was instantaneous. All comparisons are feeble to realities of this order--seen,
too, while the heart of man is quickened to enjoy and wonder, and feels scarcely less than
a new existence in the stirring events every where round him. The first comparison that struck
me was the vague one of a shower of stars. The mountain pinnacles were in a blaze. The general
fires of the bivouacs soon spread through the forest, and down the slopes of the hills, all
round to the horizon.

The night was fine, the air flowed refreshingly from the verdure of the immense woods, and
the scent of the thyme and flowers of the heath, pressed by my foot, rose "wooingly on the
air." All was calm and odorous. The flourish of the evening trumpets still continued to swell
in the rich harmonies which German skill alone can breathe, and thoughts of the past and the
future began to steal over my mind. I was once more in England, gazing on the splendid beauty
of Clotilde; and imagining the thousand forms in which my weary fortunes must be shaped, before
I dared offer her a share in my hopes of happiness. I saw Mariamne once more, with her smile
reminding me of Shakspeare's exquisite picture--

  "Oh, what a deal of scorn looks beautiful,
  In the contempt and anger of that lip!"

Then came a vision of my early home. The halls of Mortimer castle--the feebly surviving parent
there, whom I still loved--the heartless and haughty brother--the pomp and pageantry to which
he was born; while I was flung out into the wilderness, like the son of the handmaid, to perish,
or, like him, escape only by a miracle. At that hour, perhaps, there were revels in the house
of my fathers, while their descendant was wandering on a hill-side, in the midst of hostile
armies, exposed to the chances of the conflict, and possibly only measuring with his pace the
extent of his grave. But while I was thus sinking in heart, my hand, in making some unconscious
gesture, struck the badge of Frederic's order on my bosom. What trifles change the current
of human thoughts! That star threw more light over my darkness than the thousand constellations
that studded the vault above my head. Success, honours, and public name, filled my mind. I
saw all things, events, and persons through a brilliant haze of hope; and determining to follow
fortune wherever she might lead me, abjured all thoughts of calamity in my unfriended, yet
resolute career. Is it to consider the matter too curiously, to conceive that the laws of nature
affect the mind? or that the spirit of man resembles an instrument, after all--an Aeolian harp,
which owes all its pulses to the gusts that pass across its strings, and in which it simply
depends upon the stronger or the feebler breeze, whether it shall smile with joyous and triumphant
chords, or sink into throbs and sounds of sorrow?

The galloping of horses roused me. It was Guiscard with an escort. "What! not in your bed yet?"
was his hurried salutation. "So much the better; you will have a showy despatch to send to
England to-night. Clairfait has just outdone himself. He found that the French were retreating,
and he followed them without loss of time. His troops had been so dispersed by the service
of the day, that he could collect but fifteen hundred hussars; and with these he gallantly
set forth to pick up stragglers. His old acquaintance, Chazot, whom he had beaten the day before,
was in command of a rearguard of ten thousand men. His fifteen hundred brave fellows were now
exposed to ruin; and doubtless, if they had exhibited any show of retreating, they must have
been ruined. But here Clairfait's à la Turque style was exactly in place. He ordered that not
a shot should be fired, but that the spur and sabre should do the business; and at once plunged
into the mass of infantry, cavalry, and artillery. In five minutes the whole were put to the
rout--guns, baggage, and ammunition taken; and the French general-in-chief as much stripped
of his rearguard, as ever a peacock was plucked of his tail."

"Will the duke follow up the blow?" was my enquiry.

"Beyond doubt. I have just left him giving orders for the advancement of the whole line at
daybreak; and unless M. Dumouier is remarkably on the alert, we shall have him supping in the
camp within the next twenty-four hours. But you will have better intelligence from himself;
for he bade me prepare you for meeting him, as he rides to the wing from which the march begins."

"Excellent news! You and Varnhorst will be field-marshals before the campaign is over." His
countenance changed.

"No; my course unfortunately lies in a different direction. The duke has been so perplexed,
by the delays continually forced upon him by the diplomacy of the Allied cabinets, that he
has been more than once on the point of giving up the command. Clairfait's success, and the
prospect of cutting off the retreat of the French, or of getting between them and Paris, have
furnished him with new materials; and I am now on my way to Berlin, to put matters in the proper
point of view. Farewell, Marston, I am sorry to lose you as a comrade; but we must meet again--no
laurels for me now. The duke must not find me here; he will pass by within the next five minutes."

The noble fellow sprang from his horse, and shook my hand with a fervour which I had not thought
to be in his grave and lofty nature.

"Farewell!" he uttered once more, and threw himself on his saddle, and was gone.

I had scarcely lost the sound of his horse's hoofs, as they rattled up the stony ravine of
the hill, when the sound of a strong body of cavalry announced the approach of the generalissimo.
He soon rode up, and addressed me with his usual courtesy. "I really am afraid, Mr Marston,
that you will think me in a conspiracy to prevent your enjoying a night's rest, for all our
meetings, I think, have been at the 'witching hour!' But would you think it too much to mount
your horse now, and ride with me, before you send your despatches to your cabinet? I must visit
the troops of the left wing without delay; we can converse on the way."

I was all obedience, a knight of Prussia, and therefore at his highness's service.

"Well, well, I thought so. You English gentlemen are ready for every thing. In the mean time,
while your horse is saddling, look over this letter. That was a gallant attempt of Clairfait's,
and, if we had not been too far off to support him, we might have pounced upon the main body
as effectually as he did upon the rear. Chazot has escaped, but one of M. Dumourier's aides-de-camp,
a remarkably intelligent fellow, has been taken, and on him has been found the papers which
I beg you to peruse."

It was a letter from the commander-in-chief to the Bureau de la Guerre in Paris.

"MONSIEUR LE MINISTRE,--I write this, after having been on horseback for eighteen hours. We
must have reinforcements without a moment's delay, or we are lost--the honour of France is
lost--France herself is lost. I have with me less than 20,000 men to defend the road to Paris
against 100,000. The truth must be told--truth becomes a citizen. We have been beaten! I have
been unable to hold the passes of Argonne, and the enemy's hussars are already scouring the
country in my rear. I have sent order upon order to Kellerman, and all my answer is, that he
is preparing to advance; but he has not stirred a step. I daresay, that he is playing trictrac
at Metz this moment.

"My march from the Argonne has been a bold manoeuvre, but it has cost us something. Chazot,
to whom I entrusted the protection of the march, and to whom I had given the strictest orders
to keep the enemy's light troops at a distance, has suffered himself to be entrapped by those
experienced campaigners, and has lost men. Duval fought bravely at the head of his brigade,
and Miranda narrowly escaped being taken, in a dashing attempt to save the park of artillery.
He had a horse killed under him, and was taken from the field insensible. Macdonald, who takes
this, will explain more. He is a promising officer--give him a step. In the mean time, send
me every man that you can. France is in danger."

"The object now," observed the duke, "will be, to press upon the enemy in his present state
of disorder, until we shall either be enabled to force him to fight a pitched battle at a disadvantage,
or strike in between him and the capital. And now forward!"

I mounted, and we rode through the camp--the duke occasionally giving some order for the morning
to the officers commanding the successive divisions, and conversing with me on the points in
discussion between England and the Allies. He was evidently dissatisfied with continental politics.

"The king and the emperor are both sincere; but that is more than I can always say for those
about them. We have too many Italians, and even Frenchmen, at our German courts. They are republicans
to a man; and, by consequence, every important measure is betrayed. I can perceive, in the
manoeuvres of the enemy's general, that he must have been acquainted with my last despatch
from Berlin; and, I am so thoroughly persuaded of the fact, that I mean to manoeuvre to-morrow
on that conviction. The order from Berlin is, that I shall act upon his flanks. Within two
hours after daylight I shall make a push for his centre; and, breaking through that, shall
separate his wings, and crush them at my leisure. One would think," said he, pausing, and looking
round him with the exaltation of conscious power, "that the troops had overheard us, and already
anticipated a victory."

The sight from the knoll, where we drew our bridles, was certainly of the most striking kind.
The fires, which at first I had seen glittering only on the mountain tops, were now blazing
in all quarters; in the cleared spaces of the forest, on the heaths and in the ravines: the
heaps of fagots gathered for the winter consumption of the cities, by woodmen of the district,
were put in requisition, and the axes of the pioneers laid many a huge larch and elm on the
blaze. Soldiers seldom think much of those who are to come after them; and the flames shot
up among the thickets with the most unsparing brilliancy. Cheerfulness, too, prevailed; the
sounds of laughter, and gay voices, and songs, arose on every side. The well-preserved game
of this huge hunting-ground, the old vexation of the French peasant, now fell into hands which
had no fear of the galleys for a shot at a wild boar, or bringing down a partridge. The fires
exhibited many a substantial specimen of forest luxury in the act of preparation. No man enjoys
rest and food like the soldier. A day's fighting and fasting gives a sense of delight to both,
such as the man of cities can scarcely conceive. No epicure at his most recherché board ever
knew the true pleasure of the senses, equal to the campaigner stretched upon the grass, until
his supper was ready, and then sitting down to it. I acknowledge, that to me that simple rest,
and that simple meal, often gave a sense of enjoyment which I have never even conceived in
the luxuries of higher life. The instantaneous sleep that followed; the night without a restless
moment; the awaking with all my powers refreshed, and yet with as complete an unconsciousness
of the hours past away, as if I had lain down but the moment before, and started from night
into sunshine--all belong to the campaigner: he has his troubles, but his enjoyments are his
own, exclusive, delicious, incomparable.

An officer of the staff now rode up to make a report on some movement of the division intended
to lead in the morning, and the duke gave me permission to retire. He galloped off in the direction
of the column, and I slowly pursued my way to my quarters. Yet I could not resist many a halt,
to gaze on the singular beauty of the bursts of flame which lighted the landscape. More than
once, it reminded me of the famous Homeric description of the Trojan bivouac by the ships.
All the images were the same, except that, for the sea, we had the endless meadows of Champagne,
and, for the ships, the remote tents of the enemy. We had the fire, the exulting troops, the
carouse, the picketed horses, the shouts and songs, the lustre of the autumnal sky, and the
bold longings for victory and the dawn. Even in Pope's feeble translation, the scene is animated--

  "The troops exulting sate in order round,
  And beaming fires illumined all the ground."

Then follows the famous simile of the moon, suddenly throwing its radiance over the obscure
features of the landscape.

I leave it to others to give the history of this campaign, one of the most memorable of Europe
from its consequences--the tramp of that army roused the slumbering giant of France. If the
Frenchman said of a battle, that it was like a ball-room, you see little beyond your opposite
partner; he might have said of a campaign, that you scarcely see even so much. The largeness
of the scale is beyond all personal observation. I can answer only for myself, that I was on
horseback before daybreak, and marched in the midst of columns which had no more doubt of beating
up the enemy's quarters than they had of eating their first meal. All were in the highest spirits;
and the opinions of the staff, among whom the duke had assigned me a place, were so sanguine,
that I felt some concern at their reaching the ear of the captive aide-de-camp. This induced
me to draw him away gradually from the crowd. I found him lively, as his countrymen generally
are, but exhibiting at once a strength of observation and a frankness of language which are
more uncommon.

"I admit," said he, "that you have beaten us; but this is the natural effect of your incomparable
discipline. Our army is new, our general new, every thing new but our imprudence, in venturing
to meet your 100,000 with our 25,000. Yet France is not beaten. In fact, you have not met the
French up to this hour."

"What!" I exclaimed in surprise; "of what nation are the troops which we have fought in the
Argonne, and are now following through the high-road to Paris? The Duke of Brunswick will be
amused by hearing that he has been wasting his cannon-shot on spectres."

"Ah, you English," he replied with a broad laugh, which made me still more doubt his nation,
"are such matter-of-fact people, that you require substance in every thing. But what are the
troops of France? Brave fellows enough, but not one of them has ever seen a shot fired in his
life; even the few battalions which we had in America saw nothing but hedge-firing. The men
before you have never seen more service than they could find in a cabaret, or hunting a highwayman.
Some of them, I admit, have served their King in the shape of shouldering their muskets at
his palace gates in Versailles, or marching in a procession of cardinals and confessors to
Notre-Dame. My astonishment is, that at the first shot they did not all run to their soup,
and at the second leave their muskets to take care of themselves. But they are brave; and,
if they once learn to fight, the pupils will beat the master."

"You are a philosopher, Monsieur, but, I hope, no prophet. I think I observe in you something
of our English blood after all. You have opinions, and speak them."

"Not quite English, nor quite French. My father was a borderer; so not even exactly either
English or Scotch. He took up arms for the son of James--of course was ruined, as every one
was who had to do with Stuart from the beginning of time--luckily escaped after the crash of
Culloden, entered the Scottish Brigade here, and left to me nothing but his memory, his sword,
and the untarnished name of Macdonald." I bowed to a name so connected with honour, and the
lively aide-de-camp and I became from that moment, fast friends. After a long and fatiguing
march, about noon, in one of the most sultry days of a British autumn, our advanced guard reached
the front of the enemy's position. The outposts were driven in at once, and the whole army,
as it came up, was formed in order of battle. Rumours had been spread of large reinforcements
being on their way; and the clouds of dust which rose along the plain, and the confused sound
of baggage-wagons, and heavy guns behind the hills, rendered it probable. Still the country
before us was clear to the eye, and our whole force moved slowly forward to storm a range of
heights, in the shape of a half-moon, which commanded the field. This was one of the sights
which nothing but war can furnish, and to which no other sight on earth is equal. The motion,
the shouts, the rapidity of all things--the galloping of the cavalry--the rolling of the parks
of artillery--the rush of the light troops--the pressing march of the battalions--and all glittering
with all the pomps of war, waving standards, flashing sabres, and the blaze thrown back from
the columns' bayonets, that looked like sheets of steel, made me almost breathless. The aide-de-camp
evidently enjoyed the sight as much as myself, and gave way to that instinct, by which man
is a wolf, let the wise say what they will, and exults in war. But when he heard shots fired
from the range of hills, his countenance changed.

"There must be some mistake here," he said, with sudden gravity. "Dumourier could never have
intended to hold his position so far in advance, and so wholly unprotected. Those troops will
be lost, and the whole campaign may be compromised."

The attack now commenced along the line, and the resistance was evidently serious. A heavy
fire was sustained for some time; but the troops gradually established themselves on the lower
part of the range. "I know it all now!" exclaimed my agitated companion, after a long look
through my glass: "it is Kellerman's corps," said he, "which ought to have been a league to
the rear of its present position at this moment. He must have received counter orders since
I left him, or been desperately deceived; another half hour there, and he will never leave
those hills but a prisoner or a corpse." From the shaking of his bridle, and the nervous quivering
of his manly countenance, I saw how eagerly he would have received permission to bring the
French general out of his dilemma. But he was a man of honour, and I was sure of him. In the
midst of a thunder of cannon, which absolutely seemed to shake the ground under our feet, the
firing suddenly ceased on the enemy's side. The cessation was followed on ours; there was an
extraordinary silence over the field, and probably the generalissimo expected a flag of truce,
or some proposal for the capitulation of the enemy's corps. But none came; and after a pause,
in which aides-de-camp and orderlies were continually galloping between the advance and the
spot where the duke stood at the head of his staff, the line moved again, and the hill was
in our possession. But Kellerman was gone; and before our light troops could make any impression
on the squadrons which covered the movement, he had again taken up a position on the formidable
ground which was destined to figure so memorably in the annals of French soldiership, the heights
of Valmy.

"What think you now, my friend?" was my question.

"Just what I thought before," was the answer. "We want science, without which bravery may fail;
but we have bravery, without which science must fail. Kellerman may have been deceived in his
first position, but he has evidently retrieved his error. He has now shortened his distance
from his reinforcements, he has secured one of the most powerful positions in the country,
and unless yon drive him out of it before nightfall, you might as well storm Ehrenbreitstein,
or your own Gibraltar, by morning."

"Well, the experiment is about to be made, for my glass shows me our howitzers en masse, moving
up to cannonade him with grape and canister. He will have an uneasy bivouac of it."

"Whether Kellerman can manoeuvre, I do not know. But that he will fight, I am perfectly sure.
He is old, but one of the most daring and firm officers in our service. If it is in his orders
to maintain those heights, he will hold them to his last cartridge and his last man."

Our conversation was now lost in the roar of artillery, and after a tremendous fire of an hour
on the French position, which was answered with equal weight from the heights, a powerful division
was sent to assail the principal battery. The attempt was gallantly made, and the success seemed
infallible, when I heard, through all the roar, the exclamation of Macdonald, "Brave Steingell!"
At the words, he pointed to a heavy column of infantry hurrying down the ravine in rear of
the redoubt.

"Those are from the camp," he exclaimed, "and a few thousands more will make the post impregnable."

The sight of the column seemed to have given renewed vigour to both sides; for, while the French
guns rapidly increased their fire, aided by the musketry of the newly arrived troops, the Prussian
artillerists, then the first in Europe, threw in their balls in such showers, that the forest,
which hitherto had largely screened the enemy, began to fall in masses; branch and trunk were
swept away, and the ground became as naked of cover as if it had been stripped by the axe.
The troops thus exposed could not withstand this "iron hail," and they were palpably staggered.
The retreat of a brigade, after suffering immense loss, shook the whole line, and produced
a charge of our dragoons up the hill. I gave an involuntary glance at Macdonald. He was pale
and exhausted; but in another moment his eye sparkled, his colour came, and I heard him exclaim,
"Bravo, Chazot! All is not lost yet." I saw a group of mounted officers galloping into the
very spot which had been abandoned by the brigade, and followed by the colours of three or
four battalions, which were planted directly under our fire. "There comes Chazot with his division!"
cried the aide-de-camp; "gallant fellow, let him now make up for his ill fortune! Monsieur
Brunswick will not sleep on the hill of Valmy to-night. He has been unable to force the centre,
and now both flanks are secured: another attack would cost him ten thousand men. Nor will Monsieur
Brunswick sleep on the hills of Valmy to-morrow. Dumourier was right; there was his Thermopylæ.
But it will not be stormed. Vive la France!"

The prediction was nearly true. The unexpected reinforcements, and the approach of night, determined
the generalissimo to abandon the assault for the time. The fire soon slackened, the troops
were withdrawn, and, after a heavy loss on both sides, both slept upon the field.

I was roused at midnight from the deep sleep of fatigue, by an order to attend the duke, who
was then holding a council. Varnhorst was my summoner, and on our way he slightly explained
the purpose of his mission. "We are all in rather bad spirits at the result of to-day's action.
The affair itself was not much, as it was only between detachments, but it shows two things;
that the French are true to their revolutionary nonsense, and that they can fight. On even
ground we have beaten them, and shall beat them again; but if Champagne gives them cover, what
will it be when we get into the broken country that lies between this and Paris? Still there
has been no rising of the people, and until then, we have nothing to fear for the event of
the campaign."

"What then have you to fear?" was my question. "What calls the council to-night?"

"My good friend," said Varnhorst with a grave smile, which more reminded me of Guiscard, "remember
the Arab apologue, that every man is born with two strings tied to him, one large and visible,
but made of twisted feathers; the other so fine as to be invisible, but made of twisted steel.
Thus there are few men without a visible motive, which all can see, and an invisible one--which,
however, pulls then just as the puller pleases. Berlin pulls now, and the duke's glory and
the good of Europe must be sacrificed to policy."

"But will the king suffer this? Will the emperor stand by and see this done?"

"They are both zealous for the liberation of the unfortunate royal family. But, entre nous--and
this is a secret which I scarcely dare whisper even in a French desert--their counsellors have
other ideas. Poland is the prize to which the ministers of both courts look. They know that
the permanent possession of French provinces is impossible. It is against the will of your
great country, against the deepest request of the French king, and against their own declarations.
But Polish seizures would give them provinces to which nobody has laid claim, and which nobody
can envy. The consequence is, that a negotiation is on foot at this moment to conclude the
war by treaty, and, having ensured the safety of the royal family, to withdraw the army into
Lorraine."

"Why am I then summoned?"

"To put your signature to the preliminaries."

I started with indignation. "They shall wait long enough if they wait till I sign them. I shall
not attend this council."

"Observe," said Varnhorst, "I have spoken only on conjecture. If I return without you, my candour
will be rewarded by an instant sentence for Spandau."

This decided me. I shook my gallant friend by the hand, the cloud passed from his brow, and
we rode together to the council. This was of a more formal nature than I had yet witnessed.
Two officers expressly sent from Vienna and Berlin, a kind of military envoys, had brought
the decisions of their respective cabinets upon the crisis. The duke said little. He had lost
his gay nonchalance of manners, and was palpably dispirited and disappointed. His address to
me was gracious as ever; but he was more of the prince and the diplomatist, and less of the
soldier. Our sitting closed with a resolution, to agree upon an armistice, and to make the
immediate release of the king one of the stipulations. I combated the proposal as long as I
could with decorum. I placed, in the strongest light that I could, the immense impulse which
any pause in our advance must give to the revolutionary spirit in France, or even in Europe--the
impossibility of relying on any negotiation which depended on the will of the rabble--and,
above all, the certainty that the first sign of tardiness on the part of the Allies would overthrow
the monarchy, which was now kept in existence only by the dread of our arms. I was overruled.
The proposal for the armistice was signed by all present but one--that one myself. And as we
broke up silently and sullenly, at the first glimpse of a cold and stormy dawn, the fit omen
of our future fate, I saw a secretary of the duke, accompanied by Macdonald, sent off to the
headquarters of the enemy.

All was now over, and I thought of returning to my post at Paris. I spent the rest of the day
in paying parting civilities to my gallant friends, and ordered my calèche to be in readiness
by morning. But my prediction had been only too true, though I had not calculated on so rapid
a fulfilment. The knowledge of the armistice was no sooner made public--and, to do the French
general justice, he lost neither time nor opportunity--than it was regarded as a national triumph.
The electric change of public opinion, in this most electric of all countries, raised the people
from a condition of the deepest terror to the highest confidence. Every man in France was a
soldier, and every soldier a hero. This was the miracle of twenty-four hours. Dumourier's force
instantly swelled to 100,000 men. He might have had a million, if he had asked for them. The
whole country became impassable. Every village poured out its company of armed peasants; and,
notwithstanding the diplomatic cessation of hostilities, a real, universal, and desperate peasant
war broke upon us on every side.

After a week of this most harassing warfare, in which we lost ten times the number of men which
it would have cost to march over the bodies of Dumourier's army to the capital, the order was
issued for a general retreat to the frontier. I remembered Mordecai's letter; but it was now
too late. Even if I could have turned my horse's head to a French post, I felt myself bound
to share the fortunes of the gallant army to which I had been so closely attached. In the heat
of youth, I went even further, and, as my mission had virtually ceased, and I wore a Prussian
order, I took the undiplomatic step of proposing to act as one of the duke's aides-de-camp
until the army had left the enemy's territory. Behold me now, a hulan of the duke's guard!
I found no reason to repent my choice, though our service was remarkably severe. The present
war was chiefly against the light troops and irregulars of the retreating army--the columns
being too formidable to admit of attack, at least by the multitude. Forty thousand men, of
the main army of France, were appointed to the duty of "seeing us out of the country." But
every attempt at foraging, every movement beyond the range of our cannon, was instantly met
by a peasant skirmish. Every village approached by our squadrons, exhibited a barricade, from
which we were fired on; every forest produced a succession of sharp encounters; and the passage
of every river required as much precaution, and as often produced a serious contest, as if
we were at open war. Thus we were perpetually on the wing, and our personal escapes were often
of the most hair-breadth kind. If we passed through a thicket, we were sure to be met by a
discharge of bullets; if we dismounted from our horses to take our hurried and scanty meal,
we found some of them shot at the inn-door; if we flung ourselves, as tired as hounds after
a chase, on the straw of a village stable, the probability was that we were awakened by finding
the thatch in a blaze. How often we envied the easier life of the battalions! But there an
enemy, more fearful than the peasantry, began to show itself. The weather had changed to storms
of rain and bitter wind; the plains of Champagne, never famed for fertility, were now as wild
and bare as a Russian steppe. The worst provisions, supplied on the narrowest scale--above
all, disgust, the most fatal canker of the soldier's soul--spread disease among the ranks;
and the roads on which we followed the march, gave terrible evidence of the havoc that every
hour made among them. The mortality at last became so great, that it seemed not unlikely that
the whole army would thus melt away before it reached the boundary of this land of death.

The horror of the scene even struck the peasantry, and whether through fear of the contagion,
or through the uselessness of hunting down men who were treading to the grave by thousands,
the peasantry ceased to follow us. Yet such was the wretchedness of that hideous progress,
that this cessation of hostility was scarcely a relief. The animation of the skirmishes, though
it often cost life, yet kept the rest more alive; the strategem, the adventure, the surprise,
nay, even the failure and escape, relieved us from the dreadful monotony of the life, or rather
the half-existence, to which we were now condemned. Our buoyant and brilliant career was at
an end; we were now only the mutes and mourners of a funeral procession of seventy thousand men.

I still look back with an indescribable shudder at the scenes which we were compelled to witness
from day to day during that month of misery; for the march, which began in the first days of
October, was protracted till its end. I had kept up my spirits when many a more vigorous frame
had sunk, and many a maturer mind had desponded; but the perpetual recurrence of the same dreary
spectacles, the dying, and the more fortunate dead, covering the highways, the fields, and
the village streets, at length sank into my soul. Some recollections of earlier principles,
and the memory of my old friend Vincent, prevented my taking the summary and unhappy means
of ridding myself of my burden, which I saw daily resorted to among the soldiery--a bullet
through the brain, or a bayonet through the heart, cured all. But, thanks to early impressions,
I was determined to wait the hand of the enemy, or the course of nature. Many a night I lay
down beside my starving charger, with something of a hope that I should never see another morning;
and many a morning, when I dragged my feeble limbs from the cold and wet ground, I looked round
the horizon for the approach of some enemy's squadron, or peasant band, which might give me
an honourable chance of escape from an existence now no longer endurable. But all was in vain.
For leagues round no living object was visible, except that long column, silently and slowly
winding on through the distance, like an army of spectres.

My diminished squadron had at length become almost the only rear-guard. From a hundred and
fifty as fine fellows as ever sat a charger, we were now reduced to a third. All its officers,
youths of the first families of Prussia, had either been left behind dying in the villages,
or had been laid in the graves by the road-side, and I was now the only commandant. Perhaps
even this circumstance was the means of saving my life. My new responsibility compelled me
to make some exertion; and I felt that, live or die, I might still earn an honourable name.
Even in those darkest hours, the thought that Clotilde might ask where and how I finished my
ill-fortuned career, and perhaps give a moment's sorrow to one who remembered her to the last,
had its share in restoring me to a sense of the world. In that sort of fond frenzy, which seems
so fantastic when it is past, but so natural, and is actually so irresistible while it is in
the mind, I wrote down my feelings, wild as they were--my impossible hopes, and a promise never
to forget her while I remained in this world, and, if there could be an intercourse between
the living and the dead, in that world to which I felt myself hastening. I then bade her a
solemn and heartfelt farewell. Placing the paper in my bosom, with a locket containing a ringlet
of her beautiful hair, which Marianne had contrived to obtain for me, the only legacy I had
to offer, I felt as if I had done my last duty among mankind.

Still we wandered on, through a country which had the look of a boundless cemetery. Not a peasant
was met; not a sound of human labour, joy or sorrow, reached the ear; not a smoke rose from
mansion or cottage; all was still, except when the wind burst in bitter gusts over the plain,
or the almost ceaseless rain swelled into sheets, and sent the rivers roaring down before us.
If the land had never been inhabited, or had been swept of its inhabitants by an avenging Providence,
it could not have been more solitary. I never conceived the idea of the wilderness before.
It was the intensity of desolation.

We seemed even to make no progress. We began to think that the scene would never change. But
one evening, when the troop had lain down under the shelter of a knoll, my sergeant, a fine
Hungarian, whose eyes had been sharpened by hussar service on the Turkish border, aroused me,
saying that he had discovered French horse-tracks in advance of us. We were all instantly on
the alert, the horse-tracks were found to be numerous, and it was evident that a strong body
of the enemy's cavalry had managed to get in between us and the army. It is true that there
was a treaty, in which the unmolested movement of the duke was an article. But, it might have
been annulled; or the French general might have been inclined to make a daring experiment on
our worn-down battalions; or, at all events, it was our business to keep him as far off as
we could. We were on horseback immediately. The track led us along the high-road for one or
two leagues and then turned off towards a village on a height at some distance. We now paused,
and the question was, whether to follow the enemy, or to dismount and try to rest ourselves,
and our tired horses, for the night. We had scarcely come to the decision of unloosing girths,
when the sky above the village showed a sudden glow; and a confused clamour of voices came
upon the wind. Dispatching an orderly to the duke, to inform him of the French movement, we
rode towards the village. We found the road in its immediate neighbourhood covered with fugitives;
who, however, instead of flying from us with the usual horror of the peasantry, threw themselves
beside our stirrups, hung on our bridles, and implored us with every wild gesticulation to
hasten to the gates. All that I could learn from the outcries of men, women, and children,
was, that their village, or rather town--for we found it of considerable size--had been the
quarters of some of the Austrian cavalry, and that the officers had given a ball, to which
the leading families had been invited. The ball was charged as a national crime by the democrats
in Paris, and a regiment of horse had been sent to punish the unfortunate town.

To attack such a force with fifty worn-out men, was obviously hopeless, and my hulans, brave
as they were, hung down their heads; but a fresh concourse came rushing from the gates with
even louder outcries than before, and the words, massacre and conflagration, were heard with
fearful emphasis. While I pondered for a moment on our want of means, a fine old man, with
his white hair stained with blood from a sabre wound in his forehead, clung to my charger's
neck, and implored me, by the honour of soldiership, to make but one effort against the revolutionary
brigands, as he termed them. "I am a French officer and noble!" he exclaimed--"I have served
my king, I have a son in the army of Condé, and now the wretches have seized on my only daughter,
my Amalia, and they are carrying her to their accursed guillotine." I could resist no longer;
yet I looked round despairingly at my force. "Follow me," said the agonized old man; "one half
of the villains are drunk in the cafes already, the other half are busy in that horrid procession
to the axe. I shall take you by a private way, and you may fall upon them by surprise. You
shall find me, and all who belong to me, sword in hand by your side. Come on; and the God of
battles, and protector of the unhappy, will give you victory." He knelt at my feet, with his
hands upraised.--"For my child's sake!"--he continued faintly to exclaim--"for my innocent
child's sake!" I saw tears fall down some of our bronzed faces, and I had but one word to utter;
but that was--"Forward!" We followed our guide swiftly and silently through the narrow streets;
and then suddenly emerging into the public square, saw such a sight of terror as never before
met my eyes.

       *       *       *       *       *

SECESSION FROM THE CHURCH OF SCOTLAND. Every body has that. And the patron, as necessity requires,
if property is to be protected, has in all circumstances the reversionary power.

II. Secondly, How were these things done?

       *       *       *       *       *

SITTING FOR A PORTRAIT

What could induce you, my dear Eusebius, to commit yourself into the hands of a portrait-painter?
And so, you ask me to go with you. Are you afraid, that you want me to keep you in countenance,
where I shall be sure to put you out? You ask too petitioningly, as if you suspected I should
refuse to attend your execution; for you are going to be be-headed, and soon will it be circulated
through your village, that you have had your head taken off: I will not go with you--it would
spoil all. You are afraid to trust the painter. You think he may be a physiognomist, and will
hit some characteristic which you would quietly let slip his notice; and you flatter yourself
that I might help to mislead him. Are you afraid of being made too amiable, or too plain? No,
no! You are not vain. Whence comes this vagary?--well, we shall all know in good time. Were
I to be with you, I should talk--perhaps maliciously--on purpose to see how your features would
unsettle and shift themselves to the vagrant humour, that though one would know another from
habit, and their old acquaintanceship, the painter would never be able to keep them steadily
together. I should laugh to see every lineament "going ahead," and art "non compos."

I will, however, venture to put down some plain directions how you are to sit. First, let me
tell you how you are not to sit. Don't, in your horror of a sentimental amiable look, put on
yourself the air of a Diogenes, or you will be like nothing human--and if you shun Diogenes,
you may put on the likeness of a still greater fool. No man living can look more wise than
you; but if you fall out with wisdom, or would in your whim throw contempt on it, no one can
better play the fool. You are the laughing or crying Philosopher at pleasure--but sit as neither,
for in either character you will set the painter's house in a roar. I fear the very plaster
figures in it will set you off--to see yourself in such motley company, with Bacchus and Hercules,
and Jupiter and Saturn, with his marble children to devour. You will look Homer and Socrates
in the face; and I know will make antics, throw out, and show fight to the Gladiator. This
may be, if your painter, as many of them do, affect the antique; but if he be another sort
of guess person, it may be worse still with you. You may not have to make your bow to a Venus
Anadyomene--but how will you be able to face the whole Muggletonian synod? Imagine the "Complete
Body," from the Evangelical Magazine, framed and glazed, round the walls, and all looking at
you in the condemned cell. Against this you must prepare; for many country artists prefer this
line to the antique. It is their connexion--and should you make a mistake and go to the wrong
man, you will most assuredly be added to the Convocation, if not put to head a controversy
as frontispiece. It will be in vain for you to say, "Fronti nulla fides;" "[Greek: gnothi seauton]"
before you get there, or nobody will know you. Take care lest your physiognomy be canvassed
by many more besides the painter. Are you prepared to have your every lineament scrutinized
by every body? to hear behind a screen the disparagement of your lips, your eyes thought deceitful,
and, in addition, a sentence of general ugliness passed upon you? So you must stoop to paint-pots,
have daubs of reds, and yellows, and greys perked up against your nose for comparison. Your
man may be a fancy mesmerizer, or mesmerize you, now that it is flying about like an epidemic,
without knowing it. If he can, he will surely do it, to keep you still: that is the way to
get a good sitter. Eusebius in a coma! answering all comers, like one of the heads in the play
of Macbeth! But I was to tell you how to sit--that is the way, get into a coma--that will be
the painter's best chance of having you; or, when he has been working for hours, he may find
you a Proteus, and that you have slipped through his fingers after all his toil to catch you.
I will tell you what happened to a painter of my acquaintance. A dentist sat to him two days--the
third the painter worked away very hard--looked at the picture, then at his sitter. "Why, sir,"
said he; "I find I have been all wrong--what can it be? Why, sir, your mouth is not at all
like what it was yesterday." "Ah! ah! I will tell you vat it ees," replied the French dentist;
"ah! good--my mouse is not de same--no indeed--yesterday I did have my jaw in, but I did lend
it out to a lady this day." Don't you think of this now while you are sitting. You know the
trick Garrick played the painter, who, foiled in his attempt, started up, and said--"You must
be Garrick or the d----!" Then as to attitude, 'tis ten to one but you will be put into one
which will be quite uncomfortable to you. One, perhaps, after a pattern. I should advise you
to resist this--and sit easy--if you can. Don't put your hand in your waistcoat, and one arm
akimbo, like a Captain Macheath, however he may entreat you; and don't be made looking up,
like a martyr, which some wonderfully affect; and don't be made turn your head round, as if
it was in disgust with the body; and don't let your stomach be more conspicuous than the head,
like a cucumber running to seed. Don't let him put your arm up, as in command, or accompanied
with a rapt look as if you were listening to the music of the spheres; don't thrust out your
foot conspicuously, as if you meant to advertise the blacking. Some artists are given to fancy
attitudes such as best set off the coats, they are but nature's journeymen at the faces; don't
fancy that the cut, colour, or cloth of your coat will exempt you from the penalty of their
practice. Why, Eusebius, they have lay-figures, and dress them just as you see them at the
tailor's or perfumer's; and one of these things will be put up for you--a mannikin for Eusebius!
In such hands the coat is by far the best piece of work, you may be sure your own won't be
taken for a pattern. You will despise it when you see it, and it will be one you can never
change--it will defy vamping. You may be at any time new varnished whenever after generations
shall wish to see how like a dancing-master the old gentleman must have looked. It is enough
to make you a dancing bear now to think of it. Others, again, equip you with fur and make you
look as if you were in the Hudson's Bay Company. Luckily for you, flowered dressing-gowns are
out, or you might have been represented a Mantelini. What can you be doing! It is difficult
to put you in your positions. There are some that will turn you about and about a half an hour
or more before they begin, as they would a horse at the fair--ay, and look in your mouth too.
If they cannot get you otherwise into an attitude, they will shampoo you into one. And, remember,
all this they will do, because they have not the skill to paint any one sitting quite easy.
Don't have a roll in your hand--that always signifies a member of Parliament. Don't have your
finger on a book--that would be a pedantry you could not endure. I cannot imagine what you
will do with your hands. Ten to one, however, but the painter leaves then out or copies them
out of some print when you are gone. This will be picking and stealing that you will have no
hand in. What to do with any one's hands is a most difficult thing to say--too many do not
know what to do with them themselves; and, under the suffering of sitting, I think you will
be one of them. If there is a child in the room, you will be making rabbits with your fingers.
Then you are at the mercy of the painter's privilege--the foreground and background. If you
have the common fate, your head will be stuck upon a red curtain, a watered pattern. If your
man has used up his carmine, you will be standing in a fine colonnade, waiting with the utmost
patience for the burst of a thunder cloud that makes the marble column stand out conspicuously,
and there will be a distant park scene; and thus you will represent the landed interest: or
you will perhaps have your glove in your hand--a device adopted by some, to intimate that they
are hand and glove with all the neighbouring gentry. And it is a common thing to have a new
hat and a walking-cane upon a marble table. This shows the sitter has the use of his legs,
which otherwise might be doubted, and is therefore judicious. If you are supposed to be in
the open air, you will not know at first sight that you are so represented, until you have
learned the painter's hieroglyphic for trees. You will find them to be angular sorts of sticks,
with red and yellow flag-rags flapping about; and ten to one but you have a murky sky, and
no hat on your head; but as to such a country as you ever walked in, or ever saw, don't expect
to see such a one as a background to your picture, and you will readily console yourself that
you are turning your back upon it. If you are painted in a library, books are cheap--so that
the artist can afford to throw you in a silver inkstand into the bargain, and a pen--such a
pen! the goose wouldn't know it that bred it--and perhaps an open letter to answer, with your
name on the cover. If you are made answering the letter, that will never be like you--perhaps
it would be more like if the letter should be unopened. Now, do not flatter yourself; Eusebius,
that all these things are matters of choice with you. "Non omnia possumus omnes," is the regular
rule of the profession; some stick to the curtain all their lives, from sheer inability to
set it--to draw it aside. You remember the sign-painter that went about painting red lions,
and his reply to a refractory landlord who insisted upon a white lamb. "You may have a white
lamb if you please, but when all is said and done, it will be a great deal more like a red
lion." And I am sorry to say, the faces too, are not unfrequently in this predicament, for
they have a wonderful family likeness, and these run much by counties. A painter has often
been known totally to fail, by quitting his beat. There is certainly an advantage in this;
for if any gentleman should be so unfortunate as to have no ancestors, he may pick up at random,
in any given county in England, a number that will very well match, and all look like blood-relations.
There is an instance where this resemblance was greatly improved, by the advice of an itinerant
of the profession, who, at a very moderate price, put wigs on all the Vandyks. And there you
see some danger, Eusebius, that--be represented how you may--you are not sure of keeping your
condition ten years; you may have, by that time, a hussar cap put upon your unconscious head.
But portraits fare far worse than that.

I remember, when a boy, walking with an elderly gentleman, and passing a broker's stall, there
was the portrait of a fine florid gentleman in regimentals; he stopped to look at it--he might
have bought it for a few shillings. After we had gone away,--"that," said he, "is the portrait
of my wife's great uncle--member for the county, and colonel of militia: you see how he is
degraded to these steps." "Why do you not rescue him?" said I. "Because he left me nothing,"
was the reply. A relative of mine, an old lady, hit upon a happy device; the example is worth
following. Her husband was the last of his race, for she had no children. She took all the
family portraits out of their frames, rolled up all the pictures, and put them in the coffin
with the deceased. No one was more honourably accompanied to the grave--and so he slept with
his fathers. It has not, to be sure, Eusebius, much to do with your portrait, but thinking
of these family portraits, one is led on to think of their persons, &c.; so I must tell you
what struck me as a singular instance of the 'sic nos non nobis.' I went with a cousin, upon
a sort of pilgrimage at some distance, to visit some family monuments. There was one large
handsome marble one in the chancel. You will never guess how it had been treated. A vicar's
wife had died, and the disconsolate widower had caused a square marble tablet, with the inscription
of his wife's virtues, to be actually inserted in the Very centre of our family monument: and
yet you, by sitting for your portrait, hope to be handed down unmutilated to generations to
come,--yes, they will come, and you will be a mark for the boys to shoot peas at--that is,
if you remain at all in the family--you may be transferred to the wench's garret, or the public-house,
and have a pipe popped through the canvass into your mouth, to make you look ridiculous. I
really think you have a chance of being purchased, to be hung up in the club parlour as pictorial
president of the Odd-Fellows. Why should you be exempt from what kings are subject to? The
"king's head" is a sign in many a highway, to countenance ill-living. You too, will be bought
at a broker's--have your name changed without your consent--and be adopted into a family whereof
you would heartily despise the whole kith and kin. If pride has not a fall in the portraits
of the great and noble, where shall we find it?"

A painter once told me, that he assisted one of the meanest of low rich men, to collect some
family portraits; he recommended to him a fine Velasquez. "Velasquez!--who's he?" said the
head of his family. "It is a superb picture, sir--a genuine portrait by the Spaniard, and doubtless,
of some Spanish nobleman. "Then," said he, "I won't have it; I'll have no Spanish blood contaminate
my family, sir." "Spanish blood," rejected by the plebeian! I have known better men than you,
Eusebius--excuse the comparison--vamped up and engraved upon the spur of the moment, for celebrated
highwaymen or bloody murderers. But this digression won't help you out in your sitting. Let
me see what the learned say upon the subject--what advice shall we get from the man of academies.
Here we have him, Gerrard Larresse; you may be sure that he treats of portrait-painting, and
with importance enough too. Here it is--"Of Portraiture." But that is far too plan. We must
have an emblem:--

  "Emblem touching the handling of portraits."

"Nature with her many breasts, is in a sitting posture. Near her stands a little child, lifting
her garment off her shoulders. On the other side stands Truth, holding a mirror before her,
wherein she views herself down to the middle, and is seemingly surprised at it. On the frame
of this glass, are seen a gilt pallet and pencils. Truth has a book and palm branch in her
hand." What do you think of that, Eusebius, for a position? But why Nature or Truth should
be surprised at viewing herself down to the middle, I cannot imagine. It evidently won't do
to surprise you in that manner. Poor Gerrard, I see, thinks it a great condescension in him
to speak of portrait-painting at all; he calls it, "departing from the essence of art, and
subjecting (the painter) to all the defects of nature." Hear that, Eusebius! you are to sit
to be a specimen of the defects of nature. He is indignant that "such great masters as Vandyke,
Lely, Van Loo, the old and young Bakker, and others," possessed of great talents, postponed
what is noble and beautiful to what is more ordinary. There you are again, Eusebius, with your
ordinary visage, unworthy such men as the old and young Bakker, whoever they were. But since
there must be portraits, he could endure the method of the ancients, who, "used to cause those
from whom the commonwealth had received extraordinary benefits, either in war or civil affairs,
or for eminence in religion, to be represented in marble or metal, or in a picture, that the
sight of them, by those honours, might be a spur to posterity to emulate the same virtues.
This honour was first begun with their deities; afterwards it was paid to heroes, and of consequence
to philosophers, orators, religious men, and others, not only to perpetuate their virtues,
but also to embalm their names and memories. But now it goes further; a person of any condition
whatsoever, have he but as much money as the painter asks, must sit for his picture. This is
a great abuse, and sprung from as laudable a cause."

Are you not ashamed to sit after that? He is not, however, without his indulgences. He will
allow something to a lover and a husband.

"Has a citizen's wife but an only babe? he is drawn at half a year old; at ten years old he
sits again; and for the last time in his twenty-fifth year, in order to show her tender folly:
and then she stands wondering how a man can so alter in that time. Is not this a weighty reason?
a reprovable custom, if painters did not gain by it. But again, portraits are allowable, when
a lover is absent from his mistress, that they may send each other their pictures, to cherish
and increase their loves; a man and wife parted so may do the same." You undertake, you perceive,
a matter of some responsibility--you must account to your conscience for the act of sitting
for your picture. Then there is a chapter upon defects, which, as I suppose he presumes people
don't know themselves, he catalogues pretty fully, till you are quite out of humour with poor
human nature. The defects are "natural ones--accidental ones--usual ones." Natural--"a wry
face, squint eyes, wry mouth, nose," &c. Accidental. "Loss of an eye, a cut on the cheek, or
other part of the face, pits of the small-pox and the like." Usual. "Contraction of the eyes
and mouth, or closing or gaping of the latter, or drawing it in somewhat to this or that side,
upwards or downwards," &c. As for other bodily infirmities, how many have wry necks, hunchbacks,
bandy legs--withered or short arms, or one shorter than another; dead or lame hands or fingers."
Now, are you so sure of the absence of all these defects, that you venture? You must think
yourself an Adonis, and not think that you are to be flattered, by having any very considerable
number of your defects hid. "The necessary ones ought to be seen, because they help the likeness;
such as a wry face, squint eyes, low forehead, thinness, and fatness; a wry neck, too short
or too long a nose; wrinkles between the eyes; ruddiness or paleness of the cheeks, or lips;
pimples or warts about the mouth; and such like." After this, it is right you should know that
"Nature abhors deformity." Nay, that we always endeavour to hide our own--and which do you
mean to hide, or do you intend to come out perfect? I daresay you can discover some little
habits of your own, Eusebius, free from vanity as you are, that tend to these little concealments!
Do you remember how a foolish man lost a considerable sum of money once, by forgetting this
human propensity? He had lost some money to little K---- of Bath, the deformed gambler--and
being netted at his loss, thought to pique the winner. "I'll wager," said he, "£50, I'll point
out the worst leg in company."--"Done," said K---- to his astonishment. "The man does not know
himself," thought he, for there sat K---- crouched up all shapes by the fireside. The wagerer,
to win his bet, at once cried, "Why, that," pointing to K----'s leg, which was extended towards
the grate. "No," said K---- quietly unfolding the other from beneath the chair, and showing
it, "that's worse." By which you may learn the fact--that every man puts his best leg foremost.
But we must not quit our friend Gerard yet. I like his grave conceit. I rejoice to find him
giving the painters a rap over their knuckles. He says, Eusebius, that they are fond of having
"smutty pictures" in their rooms; and roundly tells them, that though fine pictures are necessary,
there is no need of their having such subjects as "Mars and Venus, and Joseph and Potiphar's
Wife." Now, though I do not think our moderns offend much in this respect--the hint is good--and
some exhibit studies from models about their rooms, that evidently sat without their stays.
Gerard was the man for contrivances--here is a capital one. He does not quite approve of painting
a wooden leg; but if it be to be done, see with what skill even that in the hands of a Gerard
may be dignified--and the painter absolved, "lege solutus." "But if the hero insist upon the
introducing of such a leg, on a supposition that 'tis an honour to have lost a limb in his
country's service, the painter must then comply with his desires; or else contrive it lying
on a table covered with red velvet." But capital as this is, it is not all. He quite revels
in contrivances; "if he desire it after the antique manner, it must be contrived in a bas-relief,
wherein the occasion of it may be represented; or it may hang near him on a wall, with its
buckles and straps, as is done in hunting equipages; or else it may be placed among the ornaments
of architecture, to be more in view." You see he scorns to hide it--has worked up his imagination
to conceive all possible ways of showing it; depend upon it he longed to paint a wooden leg,
to which the face should be the appendage, the leg the portrait. "Hoc ligno," not "hoc signo
vinces." But here Gerard bounces--giving an instance of a gentleman "who, being drawn in little,
and comparing the smallness of the eyes with his own, asked the painter whether he had such?
However, in complaisance, and for his pleasure, he desired that one eye at least might be as
big as his own, the other to remain as it was." Fie, Gerard! you have spoiled your emblem by
taking the mirror out of truth's hand.

He is particular about postures and backgrounds. "It will not be improper to treat also about
easiness and sedateness in posture, opposed to stir and bustle, and the contrary--namely, that
the picture of a gentlewoman of repute, who, in a grave and sedate manner, turns towards that
of her husband, hanging near it, gets a great decorum by moving and stirring hind-works, whether
by means of waving trees, or crossing architecture of stone and wood, or any thing else that
the master thinks will best contrast, or oppose, the sedate posture of his principal figure."
Here you see Eusebius, how hind-works tend to keep up a bustle! "And because these are things
of consequence, and may not be plainly apprehended by every one," he explains himself by ten
figures in one plate--and such figures! As a sitter, he would place you very much above the
eye--that is, technically speaking, adopt a low horizon; "because--the because is a because--because
it's certain that when we see any painted figure, or object, in a place where the life can
be expected, as standing on the ground, leaning over a balcony or balustrade, or out at a window,
&c., it deceives the eye, and by being seen unawares, (though expected,) causes sometimes a
pleasing mistake; or it frightens and surprises others, when they meet with it unexpectedly,
at such places as aforesaid, and where there is any likelihood for it." Your artist will probably
put you on an inverted box, and sitting in a great chair, probably covered with red morocco
leather, in which you will not be at home, and in any manner comfortable. We see this deal
box sometimes converted into a marble step, as a step to a throne, and such it is in one of
the pictures of the Queen; but it is so ill coloured, that it looks for all the world like
a great cheese; it should be sent to the farmers who made the Queen the cheese present, to
show the pride of England walking upon the "fat of the land." He presents us with many methods
of showing the different characters of persons to be painted, some of which will be novel to
you. For instance, you would not expect directions to represent a secretary of state with the
accompaniments of a goose. "With a secretary the statue of Harpocrates, and in tapestry or
bas-relief, the story of Alexander shutting Hephæstion's mouth with a seal-ring; also the emblem
of fidelity, or a goose with a stone in its bill." Methinks the director, or governor, of the
East India Company, must look very small beside his bedizened accessory, meant to represent
Company. "She is to be an heroine with a scollop of mother-of-pearl on her head, in the nature
of an helmet, and thereon a coral branch; a breast ornament of scales; pearls and corals about
her neck; buskins on her legs, with two dolphins conjoined head to head, adorned with sea-shells;
two large shells on her shoulders, a trident in her hand, and her clothing a long mantle; a
landskip behind her of an Indian prospect, with palm and cocoa trees, some figures of blacks,
and elephant's teeth. This figure also suits an admiral, or commander at sea, when a sea-fight
is introduced instead of a landskip." Such a figure may, indeed, be more at home at sea, and
such a one may have been that famous lady, whose captain so "very much applauded her," and

  "Made her the first lieutenant
  Of the gallant Thunder Bomb."

Not a painter of the present day, it seems, knows how to paint the clergy. Mr Pickersgill has
done quite common things, and simply shown the cloth and the band--that is poor device. See
how Gerard would have it done. Every clergyman should be a Dr Beattie. "With a divine agrees
the statue of truth, represented in a Christian-like manner, or else this same emblem in one
of his hands, and his other on his breast, besides tapestries, bas-reliefs, or paintings, and
some Christian emblems of the true faith; and representation of the Old and New Testament--in
the offskip a temple." All the portraits of the great duke are defective, inasmuch as none
of them have "Mars in a niche," or Victory sitting on a trophy, or a statue of Hercules. You
probably have no idea what a great personage is a "sea-insurer." He is accompanied by Arion
on a dolphin; and in a picture a sea-haven, with a ship under sail making towards it; on the
shore the figure of Fortune, and (who are, think you, the "supercargoes?") over the cargo "Castor
and Pollux." In this mode of portrait-painting it would be absolutely necessary to go back
to the old plan of putting the names underneath the personages; and even then, though you write
under such, this is Castor, this Pollux, and this the sea-insurer, it will ever puzzle the
whole ship's crew to conjecture how they came there together. Gerard admits we cannot paint
what we have not seen, and by example rather condemns his own recommendations. Fewer have seen
Castor and Pollux, than have seen a lion, and he says men cannot paint what they have not seen.
"As was the case of a certain Westphalian, who, representing Daniel in the lions' den, and
having never seen a lion, he painted hogs instead of lions, and wrote underneath, 'These should
be lions.'"

By this time, Eusebius, you ought to know how to sit, if you have not made up your mind not
to sit at all. You need not, however, be much alarmed about the emblems--modern masters cut
all that matter short. They won't throw in any superfluous work, you may be sure of that, unless
you should sit to Landseer, and he will paint your dog, and throw in your superfluous self
for nothing. You would be like Mercury with the statuary, mortified to find his own image thrown
into the bargain.

Besides your own defects, you have to encounter the painter's. His unsteady, uncertain hand,
may add an inch to your nose before you are aware of it. It is quite notorious that few painters
paint both eyes of the same size; and after your utmost efforts to look straight in his face,
he may make you squint for ever, and not see that he has done so. Unless he be himself a sensible
man, he will be sure to make you look like a fool. Then, what is like to-day will be unlike
to-morrow. His megillups will change, so that in six months you may look like a copper Indian;
or the colours may fade, and leave you the ghost of what you were. Again, he may paint you
lamentably like, odiously like, yet give you a sinister expression, or at least an unpleasant
one. Then, if you remonstrate, he is offended; if you refuse to take it, he writes you word
that if not paid for and removed by next Tuesday, he will add a tail to it, and dispose of
it to Mr Polito. Did not Hogarth do something of this kind? If he please himself he may not
satisfy you, and if you are satisfied, none of your friends are, who take an opportunity of
the portrait to say sarcastic things of you. For in that respect you may be most like your
picture, or it most like you, for every body will have some fault to find with it. Why, don't
you remember but last year some friends poked out the eye from a portrait, even after it had
been on the exhibition walls. Then, what with the cleaning and varnishing, you have to go through
as many disorders as when you were a child. You will have the picture-cleaner's measles. It
was not long ago, I saw a picture in a most extraordinary state; and, on enquiry, I found that
the cook of the house had rubbed it over with fat of bacon to make it bear out, and that she
had learned it at a great house, where there is a fine collection, which are thus bacon'd twice
every year. You are sure not to keep even your present good looks, but will become smoked and
dirty. Then must you be cleaned, and there is an even chance that in doing it they put out
at least one of your eyes, (I saw both eyes taken out of a Correggio,) and the new one to be
put in will never match the other. The ills that flesh is heir to, are nothing to the ills
its representative is heir to. At best, the very change of fashion in dress will make you look
quizzical in a few years. For you are going to sit when dress is most unbecoming, and it is
only by custom that the eye is reconciled to it, so that all the painted present generation
must look ridiculous in the eyes of posterity. Don't have your name put on the canvass; then
you may console yourself that, in all these mortal chances and changes, whatever happens to
it, you will not be known. I have one before me now with the name and all particulars in large
gilt letters. Happily this ostentation is out; you may therefore hope, when the evil day comes,
fallere, to escape notice. I hope the painter will give you that bold audacious look which
may stare the beholder in the face, and deny your own identity; no small advantage, for doubtless
the "[Greek: sêmata lugra]" of Bellerophon was but his portrait, which, by a hang-look expression,
intimatd death. Your painter may be ignorant of phrenology, and, without knowing it, may give
you some detestable bumps; and your picture may be borrowed to lecture upon, at inns and institutions,
and anecdotes rummaged up or forged, to match the painter's doing--the bumps he has given you.

You must not, however, on this account, think too ill of the poor painter. He is subject to
human infirmities--so are you--and his hand and eye are not always in tune. He has, too, to
deal with all sorts of people--many difficult enough to please. You know the fable of the painter
who would please everybody, and pleased nobody. You sitters are a whimsical set, and most provokingly
shift your features and position, and always expect miracles, at a moment, too; you are here
to-day, and must be off to-morrow. It is nothing, to you that paint won't dry for you, so even
that must be forced, and you are rather varnished in than painted, and no wonder if your faces
go to pieces, and you become mealy almost as soon as you have had the life's blood in you,
and that with the best carmine. And often you take upon yourselves to tell the painter what
to do, as if you knew yourselves better than he, though he has been staring at nothing but
you for an hour or two at a time, perhaps. You ask him, too, perpetually what feature he is
now doing, that you may call up a look. You screw up your mouths, and try to put all the shine
you can into your eyes, till, from continual effort, they look like those of a shotten herring;
and yet you expect all to be like what you are in your ordinary way. After he has begun to
paint your hair, you throw it about with your hands in all directions but the right, and all
his work is to begin over again. You have no notion how ignorant of yourselves you are. I happened
to call, some time since, upon a painter with whom I am on intimate terms. I found him in a
roar of laughter, and quite alone. "What is the matter?" said I. "Matter!" replied he; "why,
here has Mr B. been sitting to me these four days following, and at last, about half an hour
ago, he, sitting in that chair, puts up his hand to me, thus, with 'Stop a moment, Mr Painter;
I don't know whether you have noticed it or not, but it is right that I should tell you that
I have a slight cast in my eye.' You know Mr B., a worthy good man, but he has the very worst
gimlet eye I ever beheld." Yes, and only slightly knew it, Eusebius. And I have to say, he
thought his defect wondrously exaggerated, when, for the first time, he saw it on canvas; and
perhaps all his family noticed it there, whom custom had reconciled into but little observation
of it, and the painter was considered no friend of the family. For the poor artist is expected
to please all down to the youngest child, and perhaps that one most, for she often rules the
rest. And people do not too much consider the feelings of painters. I knew an artist, a great
humorist, who spent much time at the court at Lisbon. He had to paint a child, I believe the
Prince of the Brazils. I remember, as if I saw him act the scene but yesterday, and it is many
years ago. Well, the maid of honour, or whatever was her title, brought the child into the
room, and remained some time, but at length left him alone with the painter. When he found
himself only in this company, his pride took the alarm. He put on great airs, frowned, pouted,
looked disdainful, superbly swelling, and got off the chair, retreating slowly, scornfully.
The artist, who was a great mimic, imitated his every gesture, and, with some extravagance,
frowned as he frowned, swelled as he swelled, blew out his breath as the child did, advanced
as he retreated, till the child at length found himself pinned in the corner, at which the
artist put on such a ridiculous expression, that risible nature could stand it no longer; pride
was conquered by humour, and from that hour they were on the most familiar terms. It was not
an ill-done thing of our Henry VIII. when he made one of his noble courtiers apologize to Holbein
for some slight, bidding him, at the same time, to know that he could make a hundred such as
he, but it was past his power to make a Holbein. And you know how a great monarch picked up
Titian's pencil which had fallen. How greatly did Alexander honour Apelles, in that he would
suffer none else to paint his portrait. And when the painter, by drawing his Campaspe, fell
in love with her, he presented her to him. It is a bad policy, Eusebius, to put slights upon
these men--and it is more, it is ungenerous; they may revenge themselves upon you whenever
they please, and give you a black eye too, that will never get right again. They can in effigy,
put every limb out of joint; and you being no anatomist, may only see that you look ill, and
know not where you went wrong. All you sitters expect to be flattered, and very little flattery
do you bestow. Perversely, you won't even see your own likenesses. Take, for instance, the
following scene, which I had from a miniature painter:--A man upwards of forty years of age,
had been sitting to him--one of as little pretensions as you can well imagine; you would have
thought it impossible that he could have had an homoeopathic proportion of vanity--of personal
vanity at least; but it turned out otherwise. He was described as a greasy bilious man, with
a peculiarly conventicle aspect--that is, one that affects a union of gravity and love. "Well,
sir," said the painter, "that will do--I think I have been very fortunate in your likeness."
The man looks at it, and says nothing, puts on an expression of disappointment. "What! don't
you think it like, sir?" says the artist. "Why--ye-ee-s, it is li-i-ke--but----" "But what
sir?--I think it exactly like. I wish you would tell me where it is not like?" "Why, I'd rather
you should find it out yourself. Have the goodness to look at me."--And here my friend the
painter declared, that he put on a most detestably affected grin of amiability.--"Well, sir,
upon my word, I don't see any fault at all; it seems to me as like as it can be; I wish you'd
be so good as to tell me what you mean." "Oh, sir, I'd rather not--I'd rather you should find
it out yourself--look again." "I can't see any difference, sir; so if you don't tell me, it
can't be altered." "Well then, with reluctance, if I must tell you, I don't think you have
given my sweet expression about the eyes." Oh, Eusebius, Eusebius, what a mock you would have
made of that man; you would have flouted his vanity about his ears for him gloriously; I would
have given a crown to have had him sit to you, and you should have let me be by, to attend
your colours. How we would have bedaubed the fellow before he had left the room, with his sweet
eyes! But there, your patient painter must endure all that, and not give a hint that he disagrees
in the opinion: or if he speak his mind on the occasion, he may as well quit the town, for
under the influence of those sweet eyes, nor man, woman, nor child, will come to sit to him.
And consider, Eusebius, their misery in having such sitters at all. They are not Apollos, and
Venuses, nor Adonises, that knock at painters' doors. Not one in a hundred has even a tolerably
pleasant face. I certainly once knew a rough-dealing artist, who told a gentleman very plainly--"Sir,
I do not paint remarkably ugly people." But he came to no good. Not but that a clever fellow
might do something of this kind with management, with good effect; get the reputation of being
a painter of "beauties," with a little skill, make beauties of every body, and stoutly maintain
that he never will have any others sit to him. I am not quite certain, that something of this
kind has been practised, or I do not think I should have the art to invent it. All those who
sit during a courtship, to present their portraits as lovers, I look upon it come as professed
cheats, and mean to be most egregiously flattered; and if the thing succeeds through the painter's
skill, within six months after the marriage, he, the painter, is called the cheat, and the
portrait not in the least like. So easy is it to get out of repute, by doing your best to please
them with a little flattery. You will never get into a book of beauty, Eusebius. Hitherto,
the list runs in the female line. The male will soon come in, depend upon it.

Have a little pity upon the poor artist, who would, but cannot, flatter--who is conscious of
his inability to put in those blandishments that shall give a grace to ugliness--from whose
hand unmitigated ugliness becomes uglier--who, at length, driven from towns, where people begin
to see this, as a dauber, takes refuge among the farm houses; at first paints the farmers and
their wives, their ugly faces stretching to the very edge of the frames, and is at last reduced
to paint the favourite cow, or the fat ox--the prodigal (alas! no; the simply miserable, in
mistaking his profession) feeding the swine, and with them, and they not over-proud of his
doings. Then there is another poor, self-deluded character among the tribe. I have the man
in my eye at this moment. It is not long since I paid him a visit to see a great historical
composition, which I had been requested to look at. It was the most miserable of all miserable
daubs; yet so conspicuously set off with colours and hardness, that the eye could not escape
it. It was a most determined eye-sore. The quiet, the modest demeanour of the young man at
first deceived me; I ventured to find some trifling fault. The artist was up--still his manner
was quiet--somewhat, in truth, contemptuously so; but, as for modesty, I doubt not he was modest
in every other matter relating to himself; but, in art, he as calmly talked of himself, Michael
Angelo, and Raffaelle, as a trio--that two had obtained immortality of fame, and that he sought
the same, and, he trusted, by the same means, and believed with similar powers: as calmly did
he speak in this manner, as if it were a thing long settled in his own mind and in fate--and
in the manner of an indulgent communication. He lamented the lack of taste and knowledge in
the world; that so little was real art appreciated, that he was obliged to submit to the drudgery
of portrait. Submit!--and such portraits. Poor fellow! how long will he get sitters to submit?
I have recently heard the fate of one of his great compositions. He had persuaded the vicar
and church-wardens of a parish to accept a picture. He attended the putting it up. It was a
fine old church. With the quietest conceit, he had a fine east window blocked up to receive
the picture--had the tables of Commandments mutilated, and thrust up in a corner--damaged the
wall to give effect to the picture--and really believed that he was conferring an honour and
benefit upon the parishioners and the county. Soon, however, men of better taste and sense
began to cry out. The incumbent died. His successor related to me the shocking occurrence of
the picture. He had it removed, and the damage done to the edifice repaired. And what became
of the grand historical? The church-warden alone, who, in the pride of his heart and ignorance,
had paid the poor artist for the colours, gladly took the picture. His account of it was, that
it was so powerful in his small room, as to affect several ladies to tears--and that he had
covered it with a thin gauze, to keep down the fierceness of the sentiment; for it was too
affecting. Now, here is a man, who, if you should happen to sit to him, will think it the greatest
condescension to take your picture, and will paint you such as you never would wish to be seen
or known. There is a predilection now for schools of design; and the world will teem with these
poor creatures.

Many there are, however, who, having considerable ability, have much to struggle against--who
love the profession of art, and with that unaccountable giving themselves up to it, are quite
unfit for any other occupation in life, yet, from adverse circumstances--ill health, strange
temperaments--do not succeed. Many years ago, I knew a very interesting young man, and a very
industrious one, too, of very considerable ability as a painter, but not, at that time, of
portraits. While hard at work, getting just enough to live by, he was seized with an illness
that threatened rapid consumption. The kind physician who gratuitously visited him, told him
one day--"You cannot live here. I do not say that you have a year of safety in this climate,
or a month of safety, but you have not weeks. You must instantly go to a warmer climate." Ill,
and without means, beyond the few pounds he could gather from his hasty breaking-up, he had
courage to look on the cheerful side of things, and went off in the first vessel to the West
Indies. I saw him afterwards. He gave me a history of his adventures. He went from island to
island--became portrait-painter--a painter of scenes--of any thing that might offer; by good
conduct, urbanity, gentleness, and industry, was respected, liked, and patronized; lived, and
sent home a thousand pounds or two--came to England to see his friends for a few months. I
saw him on his way to them. He was then in health and spirits--told me the many events of the
few years--and in six weeks the climate killed him. But the anecdote of his turning portrait-painter
is what I have to tell. On the passage, they touched at one of the islands, and he found but
very little money in his pocket; and, while others went off to hotels, or estates of friends,
he went his way quietly to seek out cheap lodgings. He found such, which the good woman told
him he could have in three hours. He afterwards learned that she waited that time for the then
tenant to die in the bed which he was to occupy. Walking away to pass the time, he met some
of his fellow passengers, who asked him if he had been to see the governor. He had not. They
told him it was necessary he should go. So thither he went. Now, the governor asked him, "What
brought him out to the West Indies?" He replied, that he came as an artist. "An artist!" said
the governor. "That is a novelty indeed. Have you any specimens? I should like to see them."
Now, among his things, he had a miniature of himself, painted by a man who attained eminence
in the profession, and whom I knew well. Here, with an ingenuousness characteristic of the
man, he acknowledged to me how, starvation staring him in the face, he stared in the governor's;
and the governor being rather a hard-featured man, whose likeness, though he had never taken
a portrait, he thought he could hit; when the governor admired the miniature, and asked him,
"If it was his?" he did not resist the temptation, and said, "Yes." Upon which the governor
sat to him. Then others sat to him; and so he left the island, with a replenished purse, and
from that time became a portrait-painter. If the poor fellow had been the veriest dauber, you,
Eusebius, would have sat to him twenty times over, and have told all the country round quite
as great a fib as he did the governor, that he was a very Raffaelle in outline, and Titian
in coloring. And what shall the "recording angel" do? Poor fellow! he had no conceit.

But you, Eusebius, need not trust or give your countenance, in the way of the art to any man
because you like his history or his manners. A thing you are very likely to do in spite of
this advice, though you multiply portraits for "Saracen's Heads."

Foolish artists themselves, who affect to talk of the great style, and set themselves up as
geniuses, speak slightingly of portrait-painting, as degrading--as pandering to vanity, &c.
I verily believe, that half this common cant arose from jealousy of Sir Joshua Reynolds. Degradation
indeed!--as if Raffaelle and Titian, and Vandyk and Reynolds, degraded the art, or were degraded
by their practice; and as to pandering to vanity--view it in another light, and it is feeding
affection.

I knew a painter, who honourably refused to paint a lady's picture, when he waited upon her
on purpose, sent by some injudicious friends to take her portrait in her last days. She had
been a woman of great celebrity--she received the painter--but, with a weakness, pointed first
to one side of the room where were portraits of earls and bishops, saying, "these are or were
all my particular friends"--and then to the other side of the room, to a well filled library--"and
these are all my works." "Now," said the painter to me, "I did not think it fair to her reputation
to take her portrait--and she had had many taken at better times." Here was one who would not
pander to vanity. After all, it is astonishing how few flattering painters there have been.
Even he who made Venus, Minerva, and Juno, starting with astonishment at the presence of Queen
Elizabeth, certainly made her by far the ugliest of the quartette. You may see the picture
at Hampton Court. She must have been difficult to please, for she insisted upon being painted
without shadow. "Glorious Gloriana" was to be the sun of female beauty. She is quite as well
as some in "The Book." For modern "beauty" manufacturers make beauty to consist in silliness
or sentimentality.

Do you believe in the story of the origin of portrait--the Grecian maid and her lover? I cannot--for
I have often tried my hand, and such frights were the result, that it would have been a cure
for love.

For lack of the art of portrait-painting, we have really no idea what mankind were like before
the time of our Eighth Harry. What we see could not possibly be likenesses, because they are
not humanity. But in Holbein's heads, such as the royal collection, published by Chamberlaine,
we begin to see what men and women were. What our early Henrys and Edwards were: what the court
or the people were, we cannot know; they are buried in the night of art, like the brave who
lived before the time of Agamemnon. Perhaps it is quite as well--"omne ignotum pro mirifico"--and
who would lose the pleasure of wonder and conjecture, with all its imaginary phantasmagoria?
We might have a mesmeric coma that might put us in possession of the past, if it can of the
future--and gratify curiosity wofully at the expense of what is more valuable than that kind
of truth. A mesmeric painter may take the portrait of Helen of Troy, and you may knock at your
twenty neighbours' doors, and find perhaps a greater beauty, especially if chronology be trusted
as to her age at the Trojan war. Would you like to see a veritable portrait of Angelica--or
of your Orlando in his madness?

The great portrait-painter--the sun, in his diurnal course all over the world, may be, for
aught we know, photographing mankind, and registering us, too; and, if we are to judge from
the specimens we do see, the collection cannot be very flattering. Who dares call the sun a
flatterer?

  "... Solem quis dicere falsum
  Audeat?"

At the very moment that you are sitting to your man, to be set off with smirk and smile and
the graces of art, you are perhaps making a most formidable impression elsewhere. You would
not like to

  "Look upon this picture, and on this."

Some poor country people have an unaccountable dislike to having their portraits taken. Savages
think them second selves, and that may be bewitched and punished; possibly something of this
feeling may be at the bottom of the dislike. I was once sketching in a country village, and
an old woman went by, and I put her into the picture. Some, looking over me, called out to
her that her likeness was taken. She cried, because she had not her best cap and gown on. I
was once positively driven from a cottage door, because a woman thought I was "taking her off."
I know not but that it was a commendable wish in the old woman to appear decent before the
world, and so might have been the fine lady's wish--

      "Betty, put on a little red,
  One surely need not look a fright when dead."

We choose to be satirical, and call it vanity; but put both anecdotes into tolerably good grave
Latin, and name them Portia and Lucretia, and we should have as fine a sentiment as the boasted
one of the hero endeavouring to fall decently. There may be but little difference, and that
only just what we, in our humours, choose to make it. I am sure you, Eusebius, will stand up
for the old village crone, and the fine lady, too. But the fraternity of the brush, if they
do now and then promote vanity, much more commonly gratify affection. Private portraits seem
to me to be things so sacred, that they ought not to survive the immediate family or friends
for whose gratification they are painted. I much like the idea of burying them at last. I will
show you how estimable these things sometimes are. You remember a portrait I have--a gentleman
in a dress of blue and gold--in crayon. Did I ever tell you the anecdote respecting him? If
not, you shall have it, as I had from my father. If you recollect the picture, you must recollect
that it is of a very handsome man. His horses took fright, the carriage was overturned, and
he was killed upon the spot. The property came to my father. One day an unknown lady, in a
handsome equipage, stopped at his door, and, in an interview with him, requested a portrait
of this very person, not the one you have seen, but another in oil-colour, and of that the
head only. My father cut it out, and gave it to her. Many, many years afterwards it was returned
to him by an unknown hand, with an account of the accident that caused the death, pasted on
the back; and it is now in my possession. The lady was never known. No, Eusebius, we must not
deny portrait-painters, nor portrait painting. It is the line in which we excel--and that we
have above all others patronized, and had great men too arise from our encouragement--Who are
so rich in Vandyks as we are? And some we have had better than the world allowed them to be--Sir
Peter Lely was occasionally an admirable painter--though Sir Joshua did say, "We must go beyond
him now." There was Sir Joshua himself, and Gainsborough--would that either were alive to take
you, Eusebius, though I were to pay for the sitting. I think too, that I should have given
the preference to Gainsborough--it would have been so true. Did you ever see his portrait of
Foote?--so unaffected--it must be like. I won't be invidious by naming any, where we have so
many able portrait-painters--but if you have not fixed upon your man, come to me, and I will
tell half-a-dozen, and we will go to them, and you shall judge for yourself--and if you like
miniature, there are those who will make what is small great. What wonderful power Cooper had
in this way. I recently had in my hands a wondrous and marvellous portrait of Andrew Marvell
by him. The sturdy honest Andrew. This man Cooper, had such wonderful largeness of style, of
execution too, even in his highest finished small oil pictures--such as in this of Andrew Marvell.
We had an age, certainly, of very bad taste, and it was not extinct in the days of Sir Joshua
and Gainsborough; nay, sometimes under both of these, I am sorry to say, it was even made worse.
The age of shepherds and shepherdesses--in the case of Gainsborough, brought down to downright
rustics. This, of making the sitters affect to be what they were not, was bad enough--and it
was any thing but poetical. But it was infinitely worse in the itinerants of the day--and is
very well ridiculed by Goldsmith, who lived much among painters, in his Vicar of Wakefield
and family sitting for the family picture. We have happily quite got out of that folly. But
we are getting into one of most unpoetical pageantry--portrait likenesses. We have not seen
yet a good portrait of Wellington, and the Queen, or the Prince; and if they must send their
portraits to foreign courts, let them be advised to learn, if they know not yet how, and we
are told they do, to paint them themselves. Montaigne tells us, that he was present one day
at Bar-le-duc, when King Francis the Second, for a memorial of Réné, King of Sicily, was presented
with a picture the king had drawn of himself. Some how or other, kings and queens are apt to
have too many trappings about them; and the man is often chosen to paint, who paints velvets
and satins best, and faces the worst. That is the reason we have them so ill done; and even
if the faces are well painted, they are overpowered by the ostentation of the dress. Now, the
Venetian portrait-painters contrived to keep down the glare of all this ornament, to make it
even more rich, but not obtruding. I remember seeing a portrait of our queen, where, in a large
bonnet, her face looked like a small pip in the midst of an orange. It would be a good thing,
too, if you could contrive to spend a week or so in company with your painter before you sit,
that he may know you. Many a characteristic may he lose, for want of knowing that it is a characteristic;
and may give you that in expression which does not belong to you, while he may miss "your sweet
expression about your eyes." He may purse up your large and generous mouth, because you may
screw it for a moment to keep some ill-timed conceit from bolting out, and, besides missing
that noble feature, may give you an expression of a caution that is not yours. A painter the
other day, as I am assured, in a country town, made a great mistake in a characteristic, and
it was discovered by a country farmer. It was the portrait of a lawyer--an attorney, who, from
humble pretensions, had made a good deal of money, and enlarged thereby his pretensions, but
somehow or other not very much enlarged his respectability. To his pretensions was added that
of having his portrait put up in the parlour, as large as life. There it is, very flashy and
very true--one hand in his breast, the other in his small-clothes' pocket. It is market-day--the
country clients are called in--opinions are passed--the family present, and all complimentary--such
as, "Never saw such a likeness in the course of all my born days. As like 'un as he can stare."
"Well, sure enough, there he is." But at last--there is one dissentient! "'Tain't like--not
very--no, 'tain't," said a heavy middle-aged farmer, with rather a dry look, too, about his
mouth, and a moist one at the corner of his eye, and who knew the attorney well. All were upon
him. "Not like!--How not like? Say where is it not like?" "Why, don't you see," said the man,
"he's got his hand in his breeches' pocket. It would be as like again if he had his hand in
any other body's pocket." The family portrait was removed, especially as, after this, many
came on purpose to see it; and so the attorney was lowered a peg, and the farmer obtained the
reputation of a connoisseur.

But it is high time, Eusebius, that I should dismiss you and portrait-painting, or you will
think your thus sitting to me worse than sitting for your picture; which picture, if it be
of my Eusebius as I know him and love him, will ever be a living speaking likeness, but if
it be one but of outward feature and resemblance, it will soon pass off to make up the accumulation
of dead lumber--while do you, Eusebius, as you are, vive valeque.

       *       *       *       *       *

MY FRIEND.

  Wouldst thou be friend of mine?--
    Thou must be quick and bold
  When the right is to be done,
    And the truth is to be told;

  Wearing no friend-like smile
    When thine heart is hot within,
  Making no truce with fraud or guile,
    No compromise with sin.

  Open of eye and speech,
    Open of heart and hand,
  Holding thine own but as in trust
    For thy great brother-band.

  Patient and stout to bear,
    Yet bearing not for ever;
  Gentle to rule, and slow to bind,
    Like lightning to deliver!

  True to thy fatherland,
    True to thine own true love;
  True to thine altar and thy creed,
    And thy good God above.

  But with no bigot scorn
    For faith sincere as thine,
  Though less of form attend the prayer,
    Or more of pomp the shrine;

  Remembering Him who spake
    The word that cannot lie,
  "Where two or three in my name meet
    There in the midst am I!"

  I bar thee not from faults--
    God wot, it were in vain!
  Inalienable heritage
    Since that primeval slain!

  The wisest have been fools--
    The surest stumbled sore:
  Strive thou to stand--or fall'n arise,
    I ask thee not for more!

  This do, and thou shalt knit
    Closely my heart to thine;
  Next the dear love of God above,
    Such Friend on earth, be mine!

  O.O.

LONDON, January 1844.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAND OF SLAVES.

  "Le printemps--le printemps!"--Berenger.

  'Twas a sunny holiday,
  Scene, Killarney--time, last May;
  In the fields the rustic throng,
  Every linnet in full song,
  Not a cloud to threaten rain,
  As I walk'd with lovely Jane.

  While we wander'd round the bay,
  Came the gayest of the gay,
  Pouring from a painted barge,
  Anchor'd by the flowery marge;
  Sporting round its cliffs and caves:--
  Ireland is the land of slaves!

  Next we met an infant group,
  Never was a happier troop;
  Dancing o'er the primrose plain.
  "Joyous infancy!" said Jane;
  "Free from care as winds and waves."
  --"No, my darling, these are slaves!"

  On we walk'd--a garden shade
  Show'd us matron, man, and maid,
  Laughing, talking, all coquetting,
  "Here," said Jane, "I see no fretting:
  Mammon makes but fools or knaves."
  --"No, my darling, these are slaves!"

  On we walk'd--we saw a dome,
  Fill'd with furious dupes of Rome,
  Ranting of the sword and chain.
  "Let us run away," said Jane:
  "How that horrid rebel raves!"
  --"No, my darling, these are slaves!"

  As we ran, a monster-crowd
  Stopp'd us, uttering vengeance loud;
  Giving nobles to the halter,
  Cursing England's throne and altar,
  Brandishing their pikes and staves.
  "Love," said Jane, "are all these slaves?"

[Greek: Aion]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRIEST'S BURIAL.

  He is dead!--he died of a broken heart,
    Of a frighten'd soul, and a frenzied brain:
  He died--of playing a desperate part
    For folly; which others play'd for gain.
        Yet o'er his turf the rebels rave!
        Be silent, wretches!--spare the grave!

  He is dead!--bewilder'd, betray'd, beguiled;
    Swept on by faction's fiery blast.
  In its blood-stain'd track, a fool, a child!
    His doom is fix'd--his lot is cast.
        Yet scowls by his bier earth's blackest knave.
        Be silent, wretches!--spare the grave!

  They dress'd the cold clay in mimic state,
    And the peasants came crowding round;
  And many a vow of revenge and hate
    In that hour on their souls was bound--
        Oh! ruthless creed, that never forgave!
        Be silent, wretches!--spare the grave!

  They bore him along by the village road,
    And they yell'd at the village spire!
  And they laid him at rest in his long abode,
    In a storm of revenge and ire;
        And round him their furious banners wave.
        Be silent, wretches!--spare the grave!

  Then o'er him the bigot chant was sung,
    And was said the bigot prayer,
  And wild hearts with many a thought were stung,
    That left its venom there,
        To madden in many a midnight cave.
        Be silent, wretches!--spare the grave!

  All is done; he is buried--the crowd depart,
    He is laid in his kindred clay,
  There, freed from the torture that ate his heart,
    He rests, till the last great day.
        O THOU! who alone canst defend and save,
        Wake Ireland wise from this lowly grave.

[Greek: Aion.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PRUDENCE.

  "Bide your time."--Rebel Song.

  Bide your time--bide your time!
  Patience is the true sublime.
  Heroes, bottle up your tears;
  Wait for ten, or ten score, years.
  Shrink from blows, but rage in rhyme:
  Bide your time--bide your time!

  Bide your time--bide your time!
  Snakes are safest in their slime.
  Sages look before they leap;
  Heroes, to your hovels creep.
  "Shoulder arms"--but never prime.
  Keep your skins from Saxon lead;
  Plunder paupers for your bread.
  Popish begging is no crime:
  Bide your time--bide your time!

[Greek: Aion.]

       *       *       *       *       *

FREE TRADE AND PROTECTION

Whoever has travelled in the highlands of Scotland, or the mountains of Wales, must have observed
the remarkable difference which exists between artificial plantations, and the natural woods
of the country. Planted all at once, the former grow up of uniform height, and all their trees
present nearly the same form and symmetry. Sown at different periods, with centuries between
their growth, the latter exhibit every variety of age and form, from the decaying patriarchs
of the forest, which have survived the blasts of some hundred years, to the infant sapling,
which is only beginning to shoot under the shelter of a projecting rock or stem. Nor is the
difference less remarkable in the room which is severally afforded for growth, in the artificial
plantations and in the wilds of nature. The larches or firs, in the stiff and angular enclosure,
are always crowded together; and if not thinned by the care of the woodsman, will inevitably
choke each other, or shoot up thin and unhealthy, in consequence of their close proximity to
each other, and the dense mass of foliage which overshadows the upper part of the wood. But
no such danger need be apprehended In the natural forest. No woodman is called to thin its
denizens. No forester's eye is required to tell which should be left, and which cut away, in
the vast array. In the ceaseless warfare of the weaker with the stronger, the feeble plants
are entirely destroyed. In vain the infant sapling attempts to contend with the old oak, the
branches of which overshadow its growth--it is speedily crushed in the struggle. Nor are the
means of removing the useless remains less effectual. The hand of nature insensibly clears
the waste of its incumbrances; the weakness of time brings them to the ground when their allotted
period is expired; and youth, as in the generations of men, springs beside the decay of age,
and finds ample room for its expansion over the fallen remains of its paternal stems.

The difference between the artificial plantation and the natural wood, illustrates the distinction
between the imaginary communities which the political economist expects to see grow up, in
conformity with his theories, and acting in obedience to his dictates, and the nations of flesh
and blood which exist around us, of which we form a part, and which are immediately affected
by ill-judged or inapplicable measures of commercial regulation. Nations were planted by the
hand of nature; they were not sown, nor their place allotted by human foresight. They exist
often close to each other, and under apparently the same physical circumstances, under every
possible variety of character, age, and period of growth. The difference even between those
ruled by the same government, and inhabited apparently by the same race, is prodigious. Who
could suppose that the Dutchman, methodical, calculating, persevering, was next neighbour to
the fiery, war-like, and impetuous Frenchman? Or that the southern and western Irish, vehement,
impassioned, and volatile, came from the same stock which pervades the whole west of Britain?
England, for centuries the abode of industry, effort, and opulence, is subject to the same
government, and situated in the same latitude as Ireland, where indolence is almost universal,
wealth rare, and manufactures in general unknown. Russia, ignorant, united, and ever victorious,
adjoins Poland, weak, distracted, and ever vanquished; and Prussia has risen with unheard-of
rapidity in national strength, and every branch of industry, at the very time when Spain was
fast relapsing into slavery and barbarism.

Familiar as these truths are to all they seem to have been, in an unaccountable manner, forgotten
by our modern political economists; and the oblivion of them is the principal cause of the
remarkable failure which has attended the application to practice of all their theories. They
invariably forget the different age of nations; they overlook the essential difference between
communities with different national character, or in different stages of manufacturing or commercial
advancement, and fall into the fatal error of supposing that one general system is to be readily
embraced by, and found applicable to, a cluster of nations existing under every possible variety
of physical, social, and political circumstances. Fixing their eyes upon their own country,
or rather upon the peculiar interest to which they belong in their own country, they reason
as if all mankind were placed in the same circumstances, and would be benefited by the arrangements
which they find advantageous. They forget that all nations were not planted at the same time,
nor in the same soil; that the difference in their age, the inequality in their growth, the
variety in their texture, is as great as in the trees of the forest, the seeds of which have
been scattered by the hand of nature; that the incessant warfare of the weaker with the stronger,
exists not less in the social than the physical world; and that all systems founded on the
oblivion of that continued contest, must ever be traversed by the strongest of all moral laws--the
instinct of SELF-PRESERVATION.

We have said that the modern theories when applied to practice, have, in a remarkable manner,
failed. In saying so, we have chiefly in view the acknowledged failure of the strenuous efforts
made by England, during the last twenty years, to effect an interchange in the advantages of
free trade, and the entire disappointment which has attended the long establishment, on a great
scale, of the reciprocity system. To the first we shall advert in the present paper; the second
will furnish ample room for reflection in another.

The abstract principles on which the doctrines of free trade are founded, are these; and we
put it to the warmest advocates of those principles, whether they are not fairly stated. All
nations were not intended by nature, nor are they fitted by their physical circumstances, to
excel in the same branches of industry; and it is the variety in the production which they
severally can bring to maturity, which at once imposes the necessity for, and occasions the
profit of, commercial intercourse. Nothing, therefore, can be so unwise as to attempt, either
by arbitrary regulations, to create a branch of industry in a country for which it is not intended
by nature, or to retain it in that branch where it is created by forced prohibitions. Banish
all restrictions, therefore, from commerce; let every nation apply itself to that particular
branch of industry for which it is adapted by nature, and receive in exchange the produce of
other countries, raised, in like manner, in conformity with their natural capabilities. Then
will the industry of each people be turned into the channel most advantageous and lucrative
to itself; each will enjoy the immense advantage of purchasing the commodities it requires
at the cheapest possible rate; hopeless or absurd hot-bed attempts to force extraneous industry
will cease; and, in the mutual interchange of the surplus produce of each, the foundation will
be laid of an advantageous and durable commercial intercourse. England, on this principle,
should not attempt to raise wine, nor France iron or cotton goods; but the calicoes and hardware
of Great Britain should be exchanged for the wines and fruits of France: both nations will
thus be enriched, and a vast commercial traffic grow up, which, being founded on mutual interest
and attended with mutual advantage, may be expected to be durable, and to extinguish, in the
end, the rivalry of their respective people, or the jealousy of their several governments.

Such is the theory of free trade; and it may be admitted it wears at first sight a seducing
and agreeable aspect. Let us now enquire how far experience, the great test of truth, has verified
its doctrines, or demonstrated its practicability. To illustrate this matter, we shall have
recourse to no mean or doubtful authority; we shall have recourse to the statement of an enlightened
but candid contemporary, whose advocating of a moderate system of free trade has excited no
small anxiety in the British empire; and which report, from the information and ability it
displays, has assigned to the present accomplished head of the Board of Trade.

The efforts made in Great Britain to introduce a general system of free trade, especially within
the last three years, are thus enumerated in the Foreign and Colonial Review.

"England, without gaining or asking a single boon from any foreign country, has--

"1. Reduced by about one-half the duties upon foreign corn.

"2. By nearly the same amount, the duties on foreign timber.

"3. Has removed her prohibitions against the importation of cattle and other animals for food,
and has fixed upon them duties, ranging on the average at about ten per cent ad valorem.

"4. Has made flesh meat admissible.

"5. Has reduced the duty on salt provisions for home consumption by one-third, and one-half;
and has placed them on a footing of entire equality with the British article for the supply
of the whole marine frequenting her ports.

"6. Has lowered her duties on vegetables and seeds in general to one-half, one-sixth, and even
one-twelfth (in the case of that most important esculent the potatoe) of what they formerly were.

"7. Has made all great articles of manufacture, except silk, which is reserved for future negotiations,
admissible at duties of ten, twelve and a half, and fifteen per cent, and only in some few
instances so much as twenty per cent.

"8. Upon some minor articles of manufacture, where our people lie under heavy disadvantages
in obtaining the raw material, and where their habits have been formed in their particular
occupation, wholly under the shelter, and therefore upon the responsibility of the law, she
has retained duties in some cases as high as thirty per cent ad valorem, but yet has reduced
them to rates insignificant in comparison with those formerly charged.

"9. In her colonies, she has fixed the ordinary rules of differential duties upon foreign productions
at four and seven per cent, with exceptions altogether trifling in amount, on which a higher
charge has been laid for special reasons.

"10. She has withdrawn the prohibition to export machinery, except so far as regards the linen
manufacture, and the spinning of the yarns employed in it.

"11. With regard to many other articles, such as butter and cheese, indeed, with regard to
all articles to which the simple and essential interests of the revenue will allow the same
rules to be applied--it has been declared that they are only temporarily exempted from the
operations of those rules, and it is well understood, that no time will be allowed to pass,
except such as is necessary, before the work is completed; and lastly,

"12. She has not even excluded from the benefit of these reductions the very countries under
whose simultaneous enactments, of a hostile character, she is at this moment suffering: these
advantages will be enjoyed by the tar and cordage of Russia; by the corn and timber, the woollens,
linens, and hosiery of northern Germany; by the gloves, the boots and shoes, the light writing-papers,
the perfumery, the corks, the straw-hats, the cottons and cambrics, the dressed skins, the
thrown silk, and even (from an incidental charge with respect to the charge of duty on the
bottles) the wines of France; by the salt provisions, the ashes, the turpentine, the rice,
the furs and skins, the sperm oil of America; and she in particular may expect to derive advantage
from the alteration in our colonial import duties upon the great articles of flour, salt, provisions,
fish and lumber."[15]

    [15] Foreign and Colonial Review, Vol. i. p. 235.

Such have been the sacrifices which Great Britain has recently made in order to secure a system
of free commercial enterprise throughout the world. Let us now enquire what return she has
met with for these concessions; and the recent occurrences in this respect are detailed in
the same unexceptionable authority.

"Within the last year, France has passed an ordinance, doubling the duty on linen yarns--a
measure hostile enough, had it been uniform in its application to all countries; but, lest
there should be any ambiguity about its meaning, she has actually left open her Belgian frontier
to that article at the former duty, on the condition that Belgium should levy the high French
duty in her custom-houses, so as to prevent the transit of the British yarns through that country.
To this disreputable and humiliating proposal, Belgium has consented. Again, amidst the loudest
professions from the Prussian government, of an anxiety to advance the relaxation of commercial
restrictions, that government has, nevertheless, adopted a proceeding not less hostile or mischievous
than the measure of France with regard to linen yarns. The Congress of the Deputies of the
Zollverein, at Stuttgard, have in a new tariff, which was to take effect on the 1st of January,
besides some minor alterations of an unfavourable kind, decreed, upon the proposal of Prussia,
that goods mixed of cotton and wool, if of more than one colour, shall pay fifty thalers the
centner, instead of thirty; that is, instead of a very high, shall be liable to an exorbitant,
and, as it may prove, a prohibitory duty. Next, America, as all our readers must be aware,
has, after a struggle, passed a tariff, subverting altogether the arrangement established by
the Compromise Act of 1833, and imposing upon the various descriptions of manufactured goods
rates of duty varying from thirty to forty and fifty per cent and upwards, which have had the
effect of stopping a great portion of the shipments of cotton goods to that country from Great
Britain during the past autumn, and, without doubt, have added greatly to the distresses of
our manufacturing population. Besides these greater instances, Russia, according to her wont
in such matters, and Spain, have published, within the test fifteen months, new tariffs, of
which it is difficult to say whether they are still worse than, or only as execrably bad, as
those which they succeeded, but, in the close rivalry between the old and the new, the latter
seem, upon the whole, entitled to the palm of prohibitive rigour. And Portugal, likewise, has
augmented the duties payable upon certain classes of her imports, by a measure of the recent
date of March 1841, and by another of last year. In the mean time, Spain has concluded a treaty
with Belgium for the admission of her linens. And the king of Prussia has effected an arrangement
with the czar, which, in certain particulars, secures, upon his own frontier, a relaxation
of the iron strictness of the Russian system. England has concluded no commercial treaty with
any of these powers; and the negotiation with France, which the measures of Lord Palmerston
interrupted in 1840, at the very period of its ripeness, appears still to slumber--owing, we
believe, in part, to the prevalence of an anti-Anglican feeling in that country, which, for
the credit of common sense and of human nature, we trust will be temporary; but much more to
the high protective notions, and the political activity and influence of the French manufacturers,
which overawe an administration far less strong, we regret to say, than it deserves."

Our recent attempts, therefore, to introduce a general system of free trade among nations have
proved a signal failure, on the admission of the most enlightened advocates for that species
of policy. Nor have our earlier efforts been more successful. Mr Huskisson, as it is well known,
introduced, full twenty years ago, the system of free trade, and repealed the navigation laws,
in the hope of making the Northern Powers of Europe more favourable to the admission of British
manufactures, and materially reduced the duties on French silks, watches, wines, and jewellery,
in the hope that the Government of that country would see the expedience of making a corresponding
reduction in the duties levied on our staple manufactures in the French harbours. But after
twenty years' experience of these concessions on our part, the French Government are so far
from evincing a disposition to meet us with a similar conciliatory policy, that they have done
just the reverse. Scarce a year has elapsed without some additional duty being imposed on our
fabrics in their harbours; and the great reductions contained in Sir R. Peel's tariff were
immediately met, as already noticed, by the imposition of an additional and very heavy duty
on British linens. Nay, so far has the free trade system been from enlarging the market for
our manufactures in Europe, that after twenty years' experience of its effects, and an increase
over Europe generally of fully a third in numbers, and at least a half in wealth, it is an
ascertained fact, that our exports to the European-States are less than they were forty years
ago.[16] "That part of our commerce," says Mr Porter, himself a decided free trader, "which,
being carried on with the rich and civilized inhabitants of European nations, should present
the greatest field for extension, will be seen to have fallen off in a remarkable degree. The
annual average exports to the whole of Europe were less in value by nearly twenty per cent,
on an average of five years, from 1832 to 1836, than they were during the five years that followed
the close of the war; and it affords strong evidence of the unsatisfactory footing on which
our trading regulations with Europe are established, that our exports to the United States
of America, which, with their population of 12,000,000, (in 1837,) are situated 3000 miles
from us across the Atlantic, have amounted to more than half the sum of our shipments to the
whole of Europe, with a population fifteen times as great as that of the United States of America,
and with an abundance of productions suited to our wants, which they are naturally desirous
of exchanging for the produce of our mines and looms."[17]

    [16] Foreign and Colonial Review, Vol. i. p. 233.

    [17] Porter's Progress of the Nation, Vol. i. p. 101.

This was written by Mr Porter in 1837; but while subsequent times have evinced an increased
anxiety on the part of this country to extend the principles of free trade, they have been
met by such increased determination on the part of the European governments to resist the system,
and adhere more rigorously to their protecting policy, that the disproportion is now universal,
and is every day becoming more remarkable. The following table will show that our exports to
Europe, notwithstanding our twelve reciprocity treaties with its maritime powers, and unceasing
efforts to give a practical exemplification of the principles of free trade, are stationary
or declining.[18]

    [18] Table showing the date and value of Exports of British Iron
    Manufacturers to Europe in the afore-mentioned years.

           Northern Europe.   Southern Europe.   Total.
    1814   £14,113,773        £12,753,816        £26,867,589
    1815    11,791,692         8,764,552          20,556,544
    1816    11,369,086         7,284,467          18,653,555
    1817    11,408,083         9,685,491          19,093,574
    1818    11,809,243         7,639,139          19,448,382
    1819     9,805,397         6,896,287          16,601,684
    1820    11,289,891         7,139,042          18,428,433

    1833     9,313,549         5,686,949          15,000,498
    1834     9,505,892         8,501,141          18,007,033
    1835    10,303,316         8,161,117          18,464,433
    1836     9,999,861         9,011,205          19,000,066
    1837    11,097,436         7,789,126          18,187,662
    1838    11,258,473         9,481,372          20,739,845
    1839    11,991,236         9,376,241          21,367,477

In one particular instance, the entire failure of the free trade system to procure any corresponding
return from the very continental states whose harbours it was chiefly intended to open, has
been singularly conspicuous. In February 1821 the reciprocity system, in regard to shipping,
was introduced by Mr Huskisson, and acted upon by the legislature; and the following reason
was assigned by that eminent man for deviating from the old navigation laws of Cromwell, which
had so long constituted the strength of the British navy. Mr Huskisson maintained--"That the
period had now arrived, when it had become indispensable to introduce a more liberal system
in regard to the admission of foreign shipping into our harbours, if we would avoid the total
exclusion of our manufacturers into their harbours. The exclusive system did admirably well,
as long as we alone acted upon it; when foreign nations were content to take our goods, though
we excluded their shipping. But they had now become sensible of the impolicy of such a system,
and, right or wrong, were resolved to resist it. Prussia, in particular, had resisted all the
anxious endeavours of this country, to effect the introduction of goods of our manufacture,
on favourable terms, into her harbours; and the reason assigned was, that the navigation laws
excluded her shipping from ours. The reciprocity system has been rendered indispensable by
the prohibitory system, which the other European powers have adopted. The only means of meeting
the heavy duties they have imposed on our goods and shipping, is to place our duties upon a
system of perfect reciprocity with theirs. Foreign nations have no advantage over us in the
carrying trade: from the London report, it clearly appeared, that the ships of Norway, Sweden,
Russia, Prussia, France, and Holland, cannot compete with British, either in long or short
voyages. But at any rate, the repeal of our discriminating duties has become matter of necessity,
if we would propose any trade with these countries."[19]

    [19] Hansard's Parliamentary Debates, February 13, 1823; and Annual
    Register, 1823, p. 104.

    Table showing the British and Foreign tonnage, with Sweden, Norway,
    Denmark, and Prussia, since 1823, when the reciprocity system began,
    in each of the following years:--

             SWEDEN.          NORWAY.         DENMARK.         PRUSSIA.
1821    23,005   8,508   13,855  61,342    5,312   3,969   79,590  37,720
1822    20,799  13,692   13,377  87,974    7,096   3,910  102,847  58,270
1823    20,986  22,529   13,122 117,015    4,413   4,795   81,202  86,013
1824    17,074  40,092   11,419 135,272    6,738  23,689   94,664 151,621
1825    15,906  53,141   14,825 157,910   15,158  50,943  189,214 182,752
1826    11,829  16,939   15,603  90,726   22,000  56,544  119,060 120,589
1827    11,719  21,822   13,945  96,420   10,825  52,456  150,718 109,184
1828    14,877  24,700   10,826  85,771   17,464  49,293  133,753  99,195
1829    16,536  25,046    9,985  86,205   24,576  53,390  125,918 127,861
1830    12,116  23,158    6,459  84,585   12,210  51,420  102,758 139,646
1831    11,450  39,689    4,518 114,865    6,552  62,190   83,908 140,532
1832     8,335  25,755    3,798  82,155    7,268  35,772   62,079  89,187
1833    10,009  29,454    5,901  98,931    6,840  38,620   41,735 108,753
1834    15,353  35,910    6,403  98,303    5,691  53,282   32,021 118,111
1835    12,036  35,061    2,592  95,049    6,007  49,008   25,514 124,144
1836    10,865  42,439    1,573  12,875    2,152  51,907   42,567 174,439
1837     7,608  42,602    1,035  88,004    5,357  55,961   67,566 145,742
1838    10,425  38,991    1,364 110,817    3,466  57,554   86,734 175,643
1839     8,359  42,270    2,582 109,228    5,535 106,960  111,470 229,208
1840    11,933  53,337    3,166 114,241    6,327 103,067  112,709 237,984

    --PORTER'S Part. Tables.

Such were Mr Huskisson's reasons. They were grounded on alleged necessity. He said in substance:--"The
navigation laws are very good things; and if we could only persuade other nations to take our
goods, while we virtually shut out their shipping, it would, doubtless, be very advisable to
continue the present system. But you can no longer do this. Foreign nations see the undue advantage
which has been so long obtained of them. They insist upon an exchange of interests. We, as
the richer and the more powerful, are called on to make the first advances. We must relinquish
our navigation laws in favor of their staple manufacture, shipping, if we would induce them
to admit, on favourable terms, our staple article, cotton goods." These were Mr Huskisson's
principles; and it may be admitted that, in the abstract, they were well-founded, for all commercial
intercourse, to be beneficial and lasting, must be founded on a mutual exchange of advantages.
But, in carrying into execution this principle, he committed a fatal mistake, which has already
endangered, without the slightest advantage, and, if persevered in, may ultimately destroy
the commercial superiority of Great Britain. He virtually repealed, by the 4 Geo. IV. c. 77
and the 5 Geo. IV. c. 1, the navigation laws, by authorizing the King, by an order in council,
to permit the exportation and importation of goods in foreign vessels, on payment of the same
duties as where chargeable on British vessels, in favour of those countries which did not levy
discriminating duties on British vessels bringing goods into their harbours, and to levy on
the vessels of such countries the same tonnage duties as they charged on British vessels. This
was, in effect, to say--We will admit your vessels on the same terms on which you admit ours;
and nothing, at first sight, could seem more equitable.

But, nevertheless, this system involved a fatal mistake, the pernicious effects of which have
now been amply demonstrated by experience, and which lies at the bottom of the whole modern
doctrines of free trade. It stipulates for no advantages corresponding to the concession made,
and thus the reciprocity was on one side only. Mr Huskisson repealed, in favour of the Baltic
powers, the British navigation laws; that is, he threw open to Baltic competition, without
any protection, the British shipping interest: but he forgot to exact from them any corresponding
favour for British iron or cotton goods in the Baltic harbours. He said--"We will admit your
shipping on the same terms on which you admit ours." What he should have said is--"We will
admit your shipping into our harbors on the same term you admit our cotton goods into your
harbours." This would have been real reciprocity, because each side would have given free ingress
to that staple commodity in which its neighbor had the advantage; and thus the most important
branch of industry of each would have been secured an inlet into the other's territories. The
British tonnage might have been driven out of the Baltic trade by the shipowners of Denmark
and Norway, but the Prussian cotton manufacturers would have been crushed by the British. It
might then have come to be a question of whether the upholding of our shipping interest or
the extension of our cotton manufactures was the most advisable policy. But no such question
need be considered now. We have gained nothing by exposing our shipping interest to the ruinous
competition of the Baltic vessels. The Danish, Norwegian and Prussian ships have come into
our harbours, but the British cotton and iron goods have not entered theirs. The reciprocity
system has been all on one side. After having been twenty years in operation, it has failed
in producing the smallest concession in favour of British manufactures, or producing in those
states with whom the reciprocity treaties were concluded, the smallest extension of British
exports. Since we so kindly permitted it, they have taken every thing and given nothing. They
have done worse. They have taken good and returned evil. The vast concession contained in the
repeal of our navigation laws, has been answered by the enhanced duties contained in the Prussian
Zollverein. Twenty-six millions of Germans have been arrayed under a commercial league, which,
by levying duties, practically varying from thirty to fifty, though nominally only ten per
cent, effectually excludes British manufactures; and, after twenty years' experience, our exports
are only a few hundred thousands a year, and our exports of cotton manufactures only a few
hundreds a year, to the whole States of Northern Europe, in favour of whom the navigation laws
were swept away, and an irreparable wound inflicted on British maritime interests, and in whose
wants Mr Huskisson anticipated a vast market for our manufacturing industry, and an ample compensation
for the diminution of our shipping interest.

Nature has established this great and all-important distinction between the effects of wealth
and national age on the productions of agriculture and of manufactures. The reason is this:--If
capital, machinery, and knowledge, conferred the same immediate and decisive advantage on agricultural
that they do on manufacturing industry, old and densely-peopled states would possess an undue
superiority over the ruder and more thinly-inhabited ones; the multiplication of the human
race would become excessive in the seats in which it had first taken root, and the desert parts
of the world would never, but under the pressure of absolute necessity, be explored. The first
command of God to man, "Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it,"
would be frustrated. The apprehensions of the Malthusians as to an excessive increase of mankind,
with its attendant dangers, would be realized in particular places, while nineteen-twentieths
of the earth lay neglected in a state of nature. The desert would be left alone in its glory.
The world would be covered with huge and densely-peopled excrescences--with Babylons, Romes,
and Londons--in which wealth, power, and corruption were securely and permanently intrenched,
and from which the human race would ne'er diverge but under the pressure of absolute impossibility
to wrench a subsistence from their over-peopled vicinities.

These dangers, threatening alike to the moral character and material welfare of nations, are
completely prevented by the simple law, the operations of which we every day see around us--viz.
that wealth, civilization, and knowledge, add rapidly and indefinitely to the powers of manufacturing
and commercial, but comparatively slowly to those of agricultural industry. This simple circumstance
effectually provides for the dispersion of the human race, and the check of an undue growth
in particular communities. The old state can always undersell the young one in manufactures,
but it is everlastingly undersold by them in agriculture. Thus the equalization of industry
is introduced, the dispersion of the human race secured, and a limit put to the perilous multiplication
of its members in particular communities. The old state can never rival the young ones around
it in raising subsistence; the young ones can never rival the old one in manufactured articles.
Either a free trade takes place between them, or restrictions are established. If the commercial
intercourse between them is unrestricted, agriculture is destroyed, and with it national strength
is undermined in the old state, and manufactures are nipped in the bud in the young ones. If
restrictions prevail, and a war of tariffs is introduced, the agriculture of the old state,
and with it its national strength, is preserved, but its export of manufactures to the adjoining
states is checked, and they establish growing fabrics for themselves. Whichever effect takes
place, the object of nature in the equalization of industry, the limitation of aged communities,
and the dispersion of mankind, is gained, in the first, by the ruin of the old empire from
the decay of its agricultural resources; in the second, by the check given to its manufacturing
prowess, and the transference of mercantile industry to its younger rivals.

Generally the interests and necessities of the young states introduce a prohibitory system
to exclude the manufactures of the old one; and it is this necessity which England is now experiencing,
and vainly endeavours to obviate, by introducing a system of free trade. But in one memorable
instance, and one only, the preponderance of a particular power rendered this impossible, and
illustrated on a great scale, and over the whole civilized world, for a course of centuries,
the effects of a perfect freedom of trade. The Roman empire, spreading as it did round the
shores of the Mediterranean, afforded the utmost facilities for a great internal traffic; while
the equal policy of the emperors, and indeed the necessity of their situation, introduced a
perfect freedom in the interchange of commodities between every part of their vast dominions.
And what was the result? Why, that the agriculture of Italy was destroyed--that 300,000 acres
in the champaign of Naples alone reverted to a state of nature, and were tenanted only by wild-boars
and buffaloes, before a single barbarian had crossed the Alps--that the Grecian cities were
entirely maintained by grain from the plains of Podolia--and the mistress of the world, according
to the plaintive expression of the Roman annalist, depended for her subsistence on the floods
of the Nile.[20] Not the corruption of manners, not the tyranny of the Caesars, occasioned
the ruin of the empire, for they affected only a limited class of the people; but the practical
working of free trade, joined to domestic slavery, which destroyed the agricultural population
of the heart of the empire, and left only effeminate urban multitudes to contend with the hardy
barbarians of the north.

    [20] Tacitus, Vol. xiv. p. 21; Michelet's Hist. de France,
    Vol. i. p. 217.

The advocates of free trade are not insensible to the superior advantages of the rising over
the old state in agriculture, and of the latter over the former in manufactures. On the contrary,
it is a secret but clear sense of the reality of this distinction, which causes them so strenuously
to contend for the removal of all restrictions. They hope, by so doing, to effect a great extension
of their sales in foreign countries, without, as they pretend, creating any diminution in their
own. But the views which have now been given show that this is a vain conceit, and demonstrate
how it has happened, that the more strenuously England contends for the principles of free
trade, and the more energetically that she carries them into practice, the more decided is
the resistance which she meets on foreign states in the attempt, and the more rigorously do
they act on the principles of protection. It is because they are striving to become manufacturing
and commercial communities that they do this--it is a clear sense of the ruin which awaits
them, if deluged with British goods, which makes them so strenuous in their system of exclusion.
The more that we open our trade, the more will they close theirs. They think, and not without
reason, that we advocate unrestricted commercial intercourse only because it would be profitable
to us, and deprecate our old system of exclusion only because it has now been turned against
ourselves. "Now, then," say they, "is the time, when England is suffering under the system
of exclusion, which we have at length had sense enough to borrow from her, to draw closer the
bonds of that system, and complete the glorious work of our own elevation on her ruins. Our
policy is clearly chalked out by hers; we have only to do what she deprecates, and we are sure
to be right." It is evident that these views will be permanently entertained by them, because
they are founded on the strongest of all instincts that of self-preservation. When we cease
to be a great manufacturing nation, when we are no longer formidable rivals, they will open
their harbours; but not till then. In striving to introduce a system of free trade, therefore,
we gratuitously inflict a severe wound on our domestic industry, without any chance even of
a compensation in that which is destined for the foreign markets. We let in their goods into
our harbours, but we do not obtain admission, nor will we ever obtain admission, for ours into
theirs. The reciprocity is, and ever must be, all on one side.

It is by mistaking the dominant influence among the continental states, that so large a portion
of the community are deceived on this subject. They say, if we take their grain and cattle,
they will take our cotton goods; that their system of exclusion is entirely a consequence of,
and retaliation for, ours. Can they produce a single instance in which our concessions in favour
of their rude produce have led to a corresponding return in favour of ours? How can it be so,
when, in all old states, the monied is the prevailing interest which sways the determinations
of government? The landholders, separated from each other, without capital, almost all burdened
with debt, are no match in the domestic struggle for the manufacturing and commercial interests.
Their superiority is founded on a very clear footing--the same which has rendered the British
House of Commons omnipotent. They hold the purse. It is their loans which support the credit
of Government; it is by the customs which their imports pay that the public revenue is to be
chiefly raised. The more popular that governments become, the more strongly will their influences
appear in the war of tariffs. If pure democracies were established in all the neighbouring
states, we would be met in then all by a duty of sixty per cent. Witness the American tariff
of 1842, and the progressive increases of duties against us since the popular revolutions we
have fostered and encouraged in France, Belgium, and Portugal.

Is, then, a free and unrestrained system of commercial intercourse impossible between nations,
and must it ever end in a war of tariffs and the pacific infliction of mutual injury? We consider
it is impossible between two nations, both manufacturing, or aspiring to be so, and in the
same, or nearly the same, age and social circumstances. It is mere folly to attempt it; because
interests which must clash, are continually arising on both parts, and reciprocity, if attempted,
is on one side only. With such nations, the only wisdom is, to conclude treaties, not of reciprocity,
but of commerce; that is, treaties in which, in consideration of certain branches of our manufactures
being admitted on favourable terms, we agree to admit certain articles of their produce on
equally advantageous conditions. Thus, a treaty, by which we agreed to admit, for a moderate
duty, the wines of France, which we can never rival, in return for their admitting our iron
and cotton goods on similar terns, would be a measure of equal benefit to both countries. It
would be as wise a measure as Mr Huskisson's reduction of the duties on French silks, gloves,
and clocks, was a gratuitous and unwarranted injury to staple branches of our own industry.
The only countries to which the reciprocity system is really applicable, are distant states
in an early state of civilization, whose natural products are essentially different from our
own, and whose stage of advancement is not such as to have made them enter on the career of
manufacture, of jealousy, and of tariffs. Colonies unite all these advantages; and it is in
them that the real sources of our strength, and the only secure markets for our produce, are
to be found; but that subject, so vast, so interesting, so vital to our individual and national
advancement, must be reserved for a future occasion.

       *       *       *       *       *