Newcastle House.--"The old and expensive custom of 'vails-giving,' received its death-glow
at Newcastle House. Sir Timothy Waldo, on his way from the Duke's dinner table to his carriage,
put a crown into the hand of the cook, who returned it, saying: 'Sir, I do not take silver.'
'Don't you, indeed?' said Sir Timothy, putting it in his pocket; 'then I do not give gold.'
Hanway's 'Eight Letters to the Duke of ----,' had their origin in Sir Timothy's complaint."

Red Lion Square.--"The benevolent Jonas Hanway, the traveller, lived and died (1786) in a house
in Red Lion Square, the principal rooms of which he decorated with paintings and emblematical
devices, 'in a style,' says his biographer, 'peculiar to himself.' 'I found,' he used to say,
when speaking of these ornaments, 'that my countrymen and women were not au fait in the art
of conversation, and that instead of recurring to their cards, when the discourse began to
flag, the minutes between the time of assembling and the placing the card-tables are spent
in an irksome suspense.

Downing Street.--"Baron Bothmar's house was part of the forfeited property of Lee, Lord Lichfield,
who retired with James II., to whom he was Master of the Horse. At the beginning of the present
century there was no other official residence in the street than the house which belonged,
by right of office, to the First Lord of the Treasury, but by degrees one house was bought
after another: first the Foreign Office, increased afterwards by three other houses; then the
Colonial Office; then the house in the north corner, which was the Judge Advocate's, since
added to the Colonial Office; then a house for the Chancellor of the Exchequer; and lastly,
a whole row of lodging-houses, chiefly for Scotch and Irish members."

Whitehall.--"King Charles I. was executed on a scaffold erected in front of the Banqueting
House, towards the park. The warrant directs that he should be executed 'in the open street
before Whitehall.' Lord Leicester tells us in his Journal, that he was 'beheaded at Whitehall
Gate.' Dugdale, in his Diary, that he was 'beheaded at the gate of Whitehall;' and a single
sheet of the time reserved in the British Museum, that 'the King was beheaded at Whitehall
Gate.' There cannot, therefore, be a doubt that the scaffold was erected in front of the building
facing the present Horse Guards. We now come to the next point which has excited some discussion.
It appears from Herbert's minute account of the King's last moments, that 'the King was led
all along the galleries and Banqueting House, and there was a passage broken through the wall,
by which the king passed unto the scaffold.' This seems particular enough, and leads, it is
said, to a conclusion that the scaffold was erected on the north side. Where the passage was
broken through, one thing is certain, the scaffold was erected on the west side, or, in other
words, 'in the open street,' now called Whitehall; and that the King, as Ludlow relates in
his Memoirs, 'was conducted to the scaffold out of the window of the Banqueting House.' Ludlow,
who tells us this, was one of the regicides, and what he states, simply and straightforwardly,
is confirmed by any engraving of the execution, published at Amsterdam in the same year, and
by the following memorandum of Vertue's on the copy of Terasson's large engraving of the Banqueting
House, preserved in the library of the Society of Antiquaries:--'It is, according to the truest
reports, said that out of this window King Charles went upon the scaffold to be beheaded, the
window-frame being taken out purposely to make the passage on to the scaffold, which is equal
to the landing-place of the hall within side.' The window marked by Vertue belonged to a small
building abutting from the north side of the present Banqueting House. From this window, then
the King stept upon the scaffold."

We shall probably next week indulge in a few QUERIES which have suggested themselves to us,
and to which Mr. Cunningham will perhaps be good enough to reply.

       *       *       *       *       * {437}

ANECDOTE OF CHARLES I.

I have great pleasure in forwarding to you an anecdote of the captivity of Charles I., which
I think will be considered interesting to your readers. Of its authenticity there can be no
doubt. I extract it from a small paper book, purchased some fifty years since, at Newport,
in the Isle of Wight, which contains the history of a family named Douglas, for some years
resident in that town, written by the last representative, Eliza Douglas, at the sale of whose
effects it came into my grandfather's hands. There are many curious particulars in it besides
the anecdote I have sent you; especially an account of the writer's great-great-grandfather
(the husband of the heroine of this tale), who "traded abroad, and was took into Turkey as
a slave," and there gained the affections of his master's daughter, after the most approved
old-ballad fashion; though, alas! it was not to her love that he owed his liberty, but (dreadful
bathos!) to his skill in "cooking fowls, &c. &c. in the English taste;" which, on a certain
occasion, when some English merchants came to dine with his master, "so pleased the company,
that they offered to redeem him, which was accepted; and when freed he came home to England,
and lived in London to an advanced age; so old that they fed him with a tea-spoon."

After his death his wife married again; and it was during this second marriage that the interview
with King Charles took place.

    "My mother's great-grandmother, when a-breeding with her
    daughter, Mary Craige, which was at y'e time of King Charles
    being a prisoner in Carisbrook Castle, she longed to kiss
    the King's hand; and when he was brought to Newport to be
    carried off, she being acquainted with the gentleman's
    housekeeper, where the King was coming to stay, till orders for
    him to leave the island, she went to the housekeeper, told her
    what she wanted, and they contrived for her to come the morning
    he was to go away. So up she got, and dressed herself, and set
    off to call her midwife, and going along, the first and second
    guard stopped her and asked her where she was going; she told
    them 'to call her midwife,' which she did. They went to this
    lady, and she went and acquainted his Majesty with the affair;
    he desired she may come up to him, and she said, when she came
    into the room, his Majesty seemed to appear as if he had been at
    prayers. He rose up and came to her, who fell on her knees
    before him; he took her up by the arm himself, and put his
    cheek to her, and she said she gave him a good hearty smack on
    his cheek. His Majesty then said, 'Pray God bless you, and that
    you go withal.' She then went down stairs to wait and see the
    King take coach; she got so close that she saw a gentleman in
    it; and when the King stept into the coach, he said, 'Pray, Sir,
    what is your name?' he replied, 'I am Col. Pride.' 'Not
    miscalled,' says the King. Then Pride says, 'Drive on,
    coachman.'"

E.V.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

THE MAUDELEYNE GRACE.

The rector of Slimbridge, in the diocese of Gloucester, is bound to pay ten pounds a year to
Magdalen College, for "choir music on the top of the College tower on May-day." (See Rudder's
Gloucestershire.) Some years ago a prospectus was issued, announcing as in preparation, "The
Maudeleyne Grace, including the Hymnus Eucharisticus, with the music by Dr. Rogers, as sung
every year on May Morning, on the Tower of Magdalene College, Oxford, in Latin and English.
With an Historical Introduction by William Henry Black." Can any of your readers inform me
whether this interesting work ever made its appearance? I am inclined to think it did not,
and have an indistinct recollection that the original MS. of the "Grace" was lost through the
carelessness of the lithographer who was entrusted with it for the purpose of making a fac-simile.

Whilst making some researches in the library of Christ Church, Oxford, I accidentally met with
what appears to me to be the first draft of the "Grace" in question. It commences "Te Deum
Patrem colimus," and has the following note:--"This Hymn is sung every day in Magdalen College
Hall, Oxon, dinner and supper throughout the year for the after grace, by the chaplains, clarkes,
and choristers there. Composed by Benjamin Rogers, Doctor of Musique of the University of Oxon,
1685." It is entered in a folio volume, with this note on the fly-leaf,--"Ben Rogers, his book,
Aug. 18. 1673, and presented me by Mr. John Playford, Stationer in the Temple, London." The
Latin Grace, Te Deum Patrem colimus, is popularly supposed to be the Hymnus Eucharisticus written
by Dr. Nathaniel Ingelo, and sung at the civic feast at Guildhall on the 5th July, 1660, while
the king and the other royal personages were at dinner; but this is a mistake, for the words
of Ingelo's hymn, very different from the Magdalen hymn, still exist, and are to be found in
Wood's collection in the Ashmolean Museum. The music, too, of the Te Deum is in a grand religious
style, and not of a festal character.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ESQUIRE" AND "GENTLEMAN."

The custom of addressing almost every man above the rank of an artizan or a huckster as "Esquire,"
seems now to be settled as a matter of ordinary politeness and courtesy; whilst the degradation
of the gentleman into the "Gent," has caused this term, as the title of a social class, to
have fallen into total disuse. Originally, they were terms that had their respective meanings
as much as Duke, Knight, Yeoman, or Hind; but now they simply mean courtesy or contempt towards
{438} the person to whom they are applied,--with the exception, indeed, of certain combinations
of circumstances under which the word "Gentleman" is applied as a character.

It would be an interesting occupation to trace the mutations of meaning which these words have
undergone, and the circumstances which gave rise to the successive applications of them. The
subject has been often touched upon more or less slightly; but I know of no work in which it
is discussed fully, though, indeed, there may be such. Of course, many of your readers are
men whose pursuits have lain in other directions than social customs, social language, and
social tastes; and, as one of them, I may be permitted to ask either where a full discussion
can be found, or that some of your correspondents will furnish through your medium a clear
and tolerably full exposition of the question. I believe it would be of general and public
interest.

We naturally expect, that in official correspondence, the public boards, through their proper
officers, would be very precise in assigning to every person his proper title, in the address
of a letter. Yet nothing can be more negligent and capricious than the way in which this is
done. I have held an appointment in the public service, which is generally considered to carry
with it the title of "Esquire," (but really whether it do or not, I am unable to tell), and
have at different times had a good deal of official correspondence, sometimes mere routine,
and sometimes involving topics of a critical character. From my own experience I am led to
think that no definite rule exists, and that the temper of the moment will dictate the style
of address. For instance, in matter-of-course business, or in any correspondence that was agreeable
to official persons, I was addressed as "Esq.;" but if the correspondence took a turn that
was unpleasant, it was "Mr. ----;" and on one occasion I received a note addressed with my
name denuded of all title whatever, even of the office I filled. The note, I hardly need say,
was "full of fire and fury;" and yet, in less than half an hour, I received a second (the writer
having discovered his mistake), opening with "My dear Sir," and superscribed with the "Esquire"
at full length. This, I think, proves the capriciousness of men in public stations in their
assignment of titles of this kind.

I certainly expected to find, however, in the "List of the Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries,"
due attention paid to this circumstance. The one just circulated was therefore referred to,
and it would seem to be as full of anomalies as a "Court Guide" or a "Royal Blue Book." We
have, indeed, the Knights and Baronets duly titled, and the Peers, lay and spiritual, sufficiently
distinguished both by capitals and mode of insertion. All those who have no other title (as
D.D. or F.R.S.) recognised by the Society, are courteously designated by the affix "Esq." In
this, it will be strange indeed if all be entitled to the appellation in its legitimate sense;
or, in other words, if the principle of courtesy does not supersede, amongst the otherwise
untitled mass of Fellows, the principle of social rank. To this in itself, as the distinction
of "Gent" after a man's name has become derogatory, there cannot be the least objection; for
antiquarianism does not palliate rudeness or offensive language.

At the same time, the adoption of this principle should surely be uniform, and invidious distinctions
should not be made. The title "Esq.," should not be given to one man, and left out in designating
another whose social position is precisely the same. For instance, we find in this list "----,
M.D.," and "----, Esq., M.D.," employed to designate two different Doctors in Medicine. We
find "----, F.R.S." and "----, Esq., F.R.S." to designate two Fellows of the Society of Antiquaries,
who are also Fellows of the Royal. We see one or two D.D.'s deprived of their titles of "Rev.,"
and, as if to make amends (in point of quantity at least), we have one Fellow with titles at
each end of his name that seem incompatible with each other, viz., "Rev. ----, Esq."

Anomalies like these can only be the result of sheer carelessness, or of the ignorance of some
clerk employed to make out the list without adequate instructions given to him. It has, in
my hearing, been held up as a specimen of invidious distinction to gratify some petty dislike;
but this notion is simply absurd, and deserves no notice. At the same time, it betokens a carelessness
that it is desirable to avoid.

As a mere question of dignity, it appears to me to savour too much of Clapham-Common or Hampstead-Heath
grandeur, to add much to our respectability or worldly importance. It would, indeed, be more
"dignified" to drop, in the lists, all use of "Esq." under any circumstances; or, if this be
objected to, to at least treat "M.A.," "D.D.," "F.R.S." as higher titles, in which the "Esq."
may properly be merged, and thus leave the appellation to designate the absence of any higher
literary or scientific title.

A good deal of this is irrelevant to the primary object of my letter; but certainly not altogether
irrelevant to the dignity of the highest English representative body of archæology, the Society
of Antiquaries. I hope, at least, that this irrelevancy will give neither pain nor offence
to any one, for nothing could be further from my wish or intention than such an effect. I have
only wished to illustrate the necessity for an accurate description of what are really the
original, subsequent, and present significations of the words "Esquire" and "Gentleman," and
to urge that either some definite rule should be adopted as to their use in official {439}
and semi-official cases, or else that they should be discontinued altogether.

BROWN RAPPEE.

April 18.

       *       *       *       *       *

FIVE QUERIES.

1. Lines by Sir John Suckling.--Is Sir John Suckling, or Owen Feltham, the real author of the
poem whose first verse runs thus:

  "When, dearest, I but think on thee,
  Methinks all things that lovely be
  Are present, and my soul delighted;
  For beauties that from worth arise,
  Are like the grace of deities,
  Still present with us though unsighted."

I find it in the twelfth edition of Feltham's Works, 1709, p. 593., with the following title:

    "This ensuing copy of the late Printer hath been pleased to
    honour, by mistaking it among those of the most ingenious and
    too early lost, Sir John Suckling."

I find it also in the edition of Suckling's Works published at Dublin, 1766. As I feel interested
in all that relates to Suckling, I shall be glad to have the authorship of this short poem
rightly assigned.

2. What is the origin and exact meaning of the phrase "Sleeveless errand"? It is mentioned
as late even as the last century, by Swift, in his poem entitled Reasons for not building at
Drapier's Hill:

  "Who send my mind as I believe, less
  Than others do on errands sleeveless."

3. What is the origin and derivation of the word "Trianon," the name of the two palaces, Le
Grand and Le Petit, at Versailles? and why was it applied to them?

4. What is the correct blazon of the arms of Godin; with crest and motto? I have seen an imperfect
drawing of the arms, Party per fess, a goblet transpierced with a dagger.

5. Whose is the line,

  "With upward finger pointing to the sky."

I have heard it generally referred to Goldsmith, but cannot find it.

HENRY KERSLEY.

Corpus Christi Hall, Maidstone, April 15. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES PROPOSED, NO. I.

The non-appearance of my name as a querist has been rather fortuitous, and it shall now be
made evident that I am neither so rich in materials, nor so proud in spirit, as to decline
such assistance as may be derived from the information and courtesy of other contributors to
the "Notes and Queries."

1. Did the following critical remarks on Shakspere, by Edward Phillips, appear verbatim in
the Thesaurus of J. Buchlerus, 1669?

The Bodleian library has the London edition of 1636; and the British Museum that of 1652. Wood
cites an edition of 1669. I transcribe from that of 1679.

    "Hoc seculo [sc. temporibus Elizabetha reginæ et Jacobi regis]
    floruerunt--Gulielmus Shacsperus, qui præter opera dramatica,
    duo poematia Lucretiæ stuprum à Tarquinio, et Amores Veneris
    in Adonidem, lyrica carmina nonnulla composuit; videtur fuisse,
    siquis alius, re verâ poeta natus. Samuel Daniel non obseurus
    hujus ætatis poeta, etc....

    Ex eis qui dramaticè scripserunt, primas sibi vendicant
    Shacsperus, Jonsonus et Fletcherus, quorum hic facundâ et polita
    quadam familiaritate sermonis, ille erudito judicio et usu
    veterum authorum, alter nativa quadam et poetica sublimitate
    ingenii excelluisse videntur. Ante hos in hoc genere poeseos
    apud nos eminuit nemo. Pauci quidem antea scripserunt, at parum
    foeliciter; hos autem tanquam duces itineris plurimi saltem
    æmulati sunt, inter quos præter Sherleium, proximum à supra
    memorato triumviratu. Suclingium, Randolphium, Davenantium et
    Carturitium--enumerandi veniunt Ric. Bromeus, Tho. Heivodus,"
    etc.

2. What are the contents of a work entitled, [Old German script: Schaubune Englischer und Franßofischer
Comædianten], printed before 1671?

This work is recorded, but without a date, in the Historia literaria of Simon Paulli, which
was printed at Strasbourg in 1671. A statement of its contents would be very acceptable to
myself, and to other admirers of our early dramatic literature.

3. Who is the fortunate possessor of the Lives and characters of the English dramatick poets
with the marginal marks of Garrick?

The copy in question was sold with the unreserved books of Garrick in 1823, No. 1269. It contained
this note:

    "All the plays marked thus * in this catalogue, I bought of
    Dodsley. Those marked thus O, I have added to the collection
    since. D.G."

Each of the above queries would have admitted further remarks, but I wish to set an example
of obedience to the recent editorial injunction on brevity.

BOLTON CORNEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Elizabeth and Isabel.--"A.C." inquires whether these names are not varied forms of the same
name, and if so, what is the common origin of the two? Camden, in his Remains, has--

    "ELIZABETH, Heb. Peace of the Lord, or quiet rest of the Lord,
    the which England has found verified in the most honoured name
    of our late sovereign. Mantuan, playing with it maketh it
    Eliza-bella; and of Isabel he says 'The same with Elizabeth, if
    the Spaniards do not mistake, which always translate Elizabeth
    into Isabel, and the French into Isabeau.'" {440}

Howard, Earl of Surrey.--Dr. Percy is said, in Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica, to have prepared
an edition of the poems of the Earl of Surrey, the whole impression of which was consumed in
the fire which took place in Mr. Nicholl's premises in 1808. Can any of your readers say whether
Dr. Percy had a copy of the sheets, and whether he had prefixed thereto any life of the Earl
of Surrey? or did Sir Egerton Brydges ever print any account of Surrey amongst his numerous
issues from the Lee or other presses?

G.

Bulls called William.--In looking into the notes in my Provincial Glossary, I find that bulls
are in Somersetshire invariably called William. Is this peculiar to that county?

C.W.B.

Bawn.--Mutual.--In vol. iii. p. 506. of Hallam's Constitutional History of England, there occurs
the following passage in reference to the colonisation of Ulster in 1612, after Tyrone's rebellion:

    "Those who received 2000 acres were bound within four years to
    build a castle and bawn, or strong court-yard; the second class
    within two years to build a stone or brick house, with a bawn;
    the third class a bawn only."

What was the bawn, which was equally indispensable to the grantee of 2000, 1500, or 1000 acres?
Richardson variously describes the term as almost any kind of dwelling, or "an enclosure of
walls to keep cattle from being stolen at night;" in fact, a court-yard. This, however, conveys
a very unsatisfactory idea, unless I am justified in supposing that a court-yard was insisted
upon, even when a house could not be built, as insuring a future residential settlement, and
thereby warding off the evils of absenteeism.

At page 514. of the same volume, I read,--

    "Wentworth had so balanced the protestant and recusant parties,
    employed so skilfully the resources of fair promises and
    intimidation, that he procured six subsidies to be granted
    before a prorogation, without any mutual concession from the
    crown."

Will Dr. Kennedy, or any other strict verbal critic, sanction this use of the word "mutual?"

ALFRED GATTY.

April 6. 1850.

    And in a foot-note on Hamilton's bawn, in the original
    edition, it is described as "a large old house, two miles from
    Sir Arthur Acheson's seat."]

Versicle and Response.--What is the meaning of the following versicle and its response, which
occur in both Morning and Evening Prayer?

  "Give peace in our time, O Lord,
  Because there is none other that fighteth for us
  but only thou, O God!"

Surely the "because" &c. is a non sequitur!

ALFRED GATTY.

April 6. 1850.

    [In Palmer's Origines Liturgice, vol. i. p. 241. (2d edit.),
    we find the following note on the response, "Quia non est
    alius," &c.:--"Brev. Eboracens. fol. 264.; Brev. Sarisb. fol.
    85." Bishop Lloyd remarks on this verse and response as
    follows:--"I do not know what Burnet means by stating that this
    response was made in the year 1549, on the occasion of political
    occurrences, for this answer is found in all the foreign
    breviaries, in the Salisbury primer, and in the primer of Hen.
    VIII. See Burnet's Hist. Ref. p. ii. b. 1. anno 1549."]

Yeoman.--This word, the origin of which Dr. Johnson says is much doubted, in the general acceptation
of it meaning signifies a small farmer; though several authorities quoted by Johnson tend to
show it also signifies a certain description of servants, and that it is applied also to soldiers,
as Yeoman of the Guard. It is not, however, confined to soldiers, for we hear of Yeoman of
the Chamber; Yeoman of the Robes; Yeoman of the Pantry; Yeoman Usher of the Black Rod.

I should be glad if any of your readers can give an explanation of the word as used in the
latter instances.

P.R.A.

Pusan.--Iklynton Collar.--Among the royal orders issued on the occasion of the marriage of
Henry VI., contained in the fifth volume of Rymer's Fædera, p. 142., occurs the following:--

    "We wol and charge you, that ye deliver unto oure trusty and
    well-beloved Squier, John Merston, keeper of our Jewell, a
    Pusan of golde, called Iklynton colar, garnished with iv
    Rubies, &c., &c."

What is the meaning and derivation of this word Pusan, and why called Iklynton collar?

E.V.

Who was Lord Karinthon, murdered 1665?--Can any of your readers inform me who was the English
lord, murdered in France by his Flemish valet, in March, 1665, as stated in the following passage
of Gui Patin's Letters, tom. iii. p. 519., ed. 1846:--

    "Hier, ce 18 Mars, je vis sur le pont Notre Dame, mené à la
    Grève, un certain méchant malheureux coquin, natif de Flandre,
    qui avoit poignardé son maître dans Pontoise; c'étoit un
    seigneur anglois, doint il vouloit avoir la bourse.... Ce
    seigneur anglois qui fut poignardé dans son lit avoit nom de
    Milord Karinthon.... Dans le testament de ce bon mais malheureux
    maître il se trouve qui'il donnoit à ce pendard de valet 20,000
    livres."

C. {441}

Christian Captives.--Where can any information be obtained respecting the Christian captives
taken by the Barbary pirates--the subscriptions raised for their relief, by briefs, &c., and
what became of the funds?

I shall be much obliged for a fuller account of these ancient customs, more particularly of
the last two, and for notes of any allusions to them in old books. I may say the same with
reference to the following extract from the Handbook of English Ecclesiology, p. 190.:

    "Under this head may also be mentioned the Funa'l or
    Deadlight, which was lighted in some churchyards at night."

STOKE. He rejects, as of course, the etymology of the former from its passing by the buildings
which were old and "rotten;" neither does he favour the belief that the original word was "Routine"
Row, so called from the processions of the church passing in that direction.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

EARLY STATISTICS.--CHART, KENT.

(No. 21. p. 329.)

The Registrar-General, in his Eighth Report, enters at length into the causes which have brought
about the variations in the number of marriages, and consequently, as I need scarcely say,
of births. In comparing the marriage returns since 1754, which are given in the report, with
the history of events since that period, he certainly makes it clear, to use his own words,
that "The marriage returns in England point out periods of prosperity little less distinctly
than the funds measure the hopes and fears of the money-market." (p. 26. 8vo. edit.)

And that

