THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES AND FLOWERS FROM SEEDS AND ROOTS

BY

SUTTON AND SONS READING

SIXTEENTH EDITION

LONDON

SIMPKIN, MARSHALL, HAMILTON, KENT & CO; LTD.

1921

All rights reserved

PRINTED BY SPOTTISWOODE, BALLANTYNE AND CO. LTD. LONDON, COLCHESTER AND ETON

Contents

THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES                                        1

A YEAR'S WORK IN THE VEGETABLE GARDEN                          151

THE ROTATION OF CROPS IN THE VEGETABLE GARDEN                  198

THE CHEMISTRY OF GARDEN CROPS                                  202

ARTIFICIAL MANURES AND THEIR APPLICATION TO GARDEN CROPS       210

THE CULTURE OF FLOWERS FROM SEEDS                              216

THE CULTURE OF FLOWERING BULBS                                 317

FLOWERS ALL THE YEAR ROUND                                     355

THE PESTS OF GARDEN PLANTS (=illustrated=)                414

THE FUNGUS PESTS OF CERTAIN GARDEN PLANTS (=illustrated=)      434

THE FUNGUS PESTS OF CERTAIN FLOWERS (=illustrated=)       447

INDEX                                                          453

THE CULTURE OF VEGETABLES

Horticulture has a full share in the progressive character of the age. Changes have been effected
in the Kitchen Garden which are quite as remarkable as the altered methods of locomotion, lighting
and sanitation. Vegetables are grown in greater variety, of higher quality, and are sent to
table both earlier and later in the season than was considered possible by gardeners of former
generations.

When Parkinson directed his readers to prepare Melons for eating by mixing with the pulp 'salt
and pepper and good store of wine,' he must have been familiar with fruit differing widely
from the superb varieties which are now in favour. A kindred plant, the Cucumber, is more prolific
than ever, and the fruits win admiration for their symmetrical form.

The Tomato has ceased to be a summer luxury for the few, and is now prized as a delicacy throughout
the year by all classes of the community.

As a result of the hybridiser's skill modern Potatoes produce heavier crops, less liable to
succumb to the attacks of disease, than the old varieties, and the finest table quality has
been maintained.

Peas are not what they were because they are so immensely better. While the powers of the plant
have been concentrated, with the result that it occupies less room and occasions less trouble,
its productiveness has been augmented and the quality improved. All the pulse tribe have shared
in the advance, and a comparison of any dozen or score of the favourite sorts of Peas or Beans
grown to-day with the same number of favourites of half or even a quarter of a century since
will at once prove that progress in horticulture is no dream of the enthusiast.

Among the Brassicas, such as Broccoli, Brussels Sprouts, Cabbage and Cauliflower, a series
of remarkable examples might be mentioned; and roots such as Beet, Carrot, Onion, Radish and
Turnip afford other striking instances of improvement. Salads also, including Celery, Chicory,
Endive and Lettuce, have participated in the beneficial change and offer a large choice of
dainties, adapted to various periods of the year. Indeed it may be truly said that none of
the occupants of the vegetable garden have refused to be improved by scientific crossing and
selection.

The vegetables which are available for daily use offer a wide and most interesting field to
the expert in selecting and hybridising. For past achievements we are indebted to the untiring
labours of specialists, and to their continued efforts we look for further results. Whether
the future may have in store greater changes than have already been witnessed none can tell.
One thing only is certain, that finality is unattainable, and the knowledge of this fact adds
to the charm of a fascinating pursuit. Happily, innovations are no longer received with the
suspicion or hostility they formerly encountered. In gardens conducted with a spirit of enterprise
novelties are welcome and have an impartial trial. The prudent gardener will regard these sowings
as purely experimental, made for the express purpose of ascertaining whether better crops can
be secured in future years. For his principal supplies he will rely on those varieties which
experience has proved to be suitable for the soil and adapted to the requirements of the household
he has to serve. By growing the best of everything, and growing everything well, not only is
the finest produce insured in abundance, but every year the garden presents new features of
interest.

In considering the general order of work in the Kitchen Garden, the first principle is that
its productive powers shall be taxed to the utmost. There need be no fallowing--no resting
of the ground; and if it should so happen that by hard cropping perplexity arises about the
disposal of produce, the proverbial three courses are open--to sell, to give, or to dig the
stuff in as manure. The last-named course will pay well, especially in the disposal of the
remains of Cabbage, Kale, Turnips, and other vegetables that have stood through the winter
and occupy ground required for spring seeds. Bury them in trenches, and sow Peas, Beans, &c.,
over them, and in due time full value will be obtained for the buried crops and the labour
bestowed upon them. But hard cropping implies abundant manuring and incessant stirring of the
soil. To take much off and put little on is like burning the candle at both ends, or expecting
the whip to be an efficient substitute for corn when the horse has extra work to do. Dig deep
always: if the soil be shallow it is advisable to turn the top spit in the usual manner, and
break up the subsoil thoroughly for another twelve or fifteen inches. Where the soil is deep
and the staple good, trench a piece every year two spits deep, the autumn being the best time
for this work, because of the immense benefit which results from the exposure of newly turned
soil to rain, snow, frost, and the rest of Nature's great army of fertilising agencies.

In practical work there is nothing like method. Crop the ground systematically, as if an account
of the procedure had to be laid before a committee of severe critics. Constantly forecast future
work and the disposition of the ground for various crops, keeping in mind the proportions they
should bear to each other. Be particular to have a sufficiency of the flavouring and garnishing
herbs always ready and near at hand. These are sometimes wanted suddenly, and in a well-ordered
garden it should not be difficult to gather a tuft of Parsley in the dark. Change crops from
place to place, so as to avoid growing the same things on the same plots in two successive
seasons. This rule, though of great importance, cannot be strictly followed, and may be disregarded
to a certain extent where the land is constantly and heavily manured. It is, however, of more
consequence in connection with the Potato than with aught else, and this valuable root should,
if possible, be grown on a different plot every year, so that it shall be three or four years
in travelling round the garden. Lastly, sow everything in drills at the proper distances apart.
Broadcasting is a slovenly mode of sowing, and necessitates slovenly cultivation afterwards.
When crops are in drills they can be efficiently thinned, weeded and hoed--in other words,
they can be cultivated. But broadcasting pretty well excludes the cultivator from the land,
and can only be commended to the idle man, who will be content with half a crop of poor quality,
while the land may be capable of producing a crop at once the heaviest and the best.

==GLOBE ARTICHOKE==

==Cynara Scolymus==

The Globe Artichoke is grown mainly for the sake of its flower-heads which make a delightful
dish when cooked while immature. The plant is easily raised from seed, although not quite hardy
in some districts. It will grow on almost any soil, but for the production of large fleshy
heads, deep rich ground is requisite. The preparation of the soil should be liberal, and apart
from the use of animal manure the plant may be greatly aided by wood-ashes and seaweed, for
it is partial to saline manures, its home being the sandy seashores of Northern Africa.

The simplest routine of cultivation consists in sowing annually, and allowing each plantation
to stand to the close of the second season. Seed may be sown in February in boxes of light
soil, or in the open ground in March or April. In the former case, put in the seeds one inch
deep and four inches apart, and start them in gentle heat. Grow on the seedlings steadily,
and thoroughly harden off preparatory to planting out at the end of April, giving each a space
of three to four feet apart each way. Under favourable conditions the plants from the February
sowing will produce heads in the following August, September, and October. In the second year,
the heads will be formed during June and July. This arrangement not only insures a supply of
heads from June to October, but admits of a more effective rotation of crops in the garden.

Sowings in the open ground should be made in March or April, in drills one foot apart. Thin
out the plants to six inches apart in the rows and allow them to stand until the following
spring, when they may be transplanted to permanent beds.

Globe Artichokes may also be grown from suckers planted out in April when about nine inches
high. Put them in rather deep, tread in firmly, and lay on any rough mulch that may be handy.
Should the weather be dry they will require watering, and during a hot dry spell water and
liquid manure should be given freely to insure a good supply of large heads. Seedlings that
are started well in a suitable bed take better care of themselves than do plants from suckers,
especially in a dry season. Vigorous seedlings send down their roots to a great depth.

To advise on weeding and hoeing for the promotion of a clean and strong growth should be needless,
because all crops require such attention. But as to the production of large heads, a few words
of advice may be useful. It is the practice with some growers to twist a piece of wire round
the stem about three inches below the head. This certainly does tend to increase the size,
but the same end may be accomplished by other means. In the first place, a rich deep bed and
abundant supplies of water will encourage the growth of fine heads. Further aid in the same
direction will be derived from the removal of all the lateral heads that appear when they are
about as large as an egg. Up to this stage they do not tax the energies of the plants in any
great degree; but as the flowers are forming within them their demands increase rapidly. Their
removal, therefore, has an immediate effect on the main heads, and these attain to large dimensions
without the aid of wire. The small heads will be valued at many tables for eating raw, as they
are eaten in Italy, or cooked as 'artichauts frits.' The larger main heads are the best for
serving boiled in the usual way. After the heads are used the plants should be cut down.

==Chards== are the blanched summer growth of Globe Artichokes, and are by many preferred to
blanched Cardoons. In the early part of July the plants selected for Chards must be cut over
about six inches above the ground. In a few days after this operation they will need a copious
watering, which should be repeated weekly, except when heavy rains occur. By the end of September
the plants will have made much growth and be ready for blanching. Draw them together, put a
band of hay or straw around them, and earth them up, finishing the work neatly. The blanching
will take fully six weeks, during which time there will be but little growth made--hence the
necessity for promoting free growth before earthing up. Any Chards not used before winter sets
in may be lifted and preserved by packing in sand in a dry shed.

The Artichoke is hardy on dry soils when the winter is of only average severity. But on retentive
soils, which are most favourable to the production of fine heads, a severe winter will destroy
the plantations unless they have some kind of protection. The usual course of procedure is
to cut down the stems and large leaves without touching the smaller central leaves, and, when
severe frost appears probable, partially earth up the rows with soil taken from between; this
protection is strengthened by the addition of light dry litter loosely thrown over. With the
return of spring the litter is removed, the earth is dug back, and all the suckers but about
three removed: then a liberal dressing of manure is dug in, care being taken to do as little
injury to the plants above and below ground as possible. At the end of five years a plantation
will be quite worn out; in somewhat poor soil it will be exhausted in three years. But on any
kind of soil the cultivation of this elegant vegetable is greatly simplified by sowing annually,
and allowing the plants to stand for two years only, as already advised.

==JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE==

==Helianthus tuberosus==

The Jerusalem Artichoke is a member of the Sunflower tribe, quite hardy, and productive of
wholesome roots that are in favour with many as a delicacy, and by others are regarded as worthless.
It is said that wise men learn to eat every good thing the earth produces, and this root is
a good thing when properly served; but when cooked in the same way as a Potato it certainly
is a very poor vegetable indeed. It is a matter of some interest, however, that in respect
of nutritive value it is about equal to the Potato; therefore, in growing it for domestic use
nothing is lost in the way of food, though it needs to be cooked in a different way.

The Jerusalem Artichoke will grow anywhere; indeed, it will often yield a profitable return
on land which is unsuitable for any other crop, but to insure a fine sample it requires a deep
friable loam and an open situation. We have grown immense crops on a strong deep clay, but
it is not a clay plant, because it soon suffers from any excess of moisture. To prepare the
ground well for this crop is a matter of importance, for it roots freely and makes an immense
top-growth, reaching, when very vigorous, a height of ten or twelve feet. Trench and manure
in autumn, and leave the land rough for the winter. Plant in February or March, using whole
or cut sets with about three eyes to each, and put them in trenches six inches deep and three
feet apart, the sets being one foot apart in the trenches. When the plants appear, hoe the
ground between, draw a little fine earth to the stems, and leave the rest to Nature. Take up
a portion of the crop in November and store in sand and dig the remainder when wanted, as recommended
in the case of Parsnips. The tubers must be dug with a fork by opening trenches and cleaning
out every scrap of the roots, for whatever remains will grow and become troublesome in the
following season.

==ASPARAGUS==

==Asparagus officinalis==

Asparagus is a liliaceous plant of perennial duration, and it demands more generous treatment
than the majority of Kitchen Garden crops. Under favourable conditions it improves with age
to such an extent as to justify the best possible cultivation. Plantations that have stood
and prospered for twenty or even thirty years are not uncommon, but a fair average term is
ten years, after which it is generally advisable to break up a bed, the precaution being first
taken to secure a succession bed on fresh soil well prepared for the purpose. Plantations are
made either by sowing seeds or from transplanted roots; and although roots are extremely sensitive
when moved, success can, as a rule, be insured by special care and prompt action, assuming
that the proper time of year is chosen for the operation. The advantage of using roots is the
saving of time, and in most gardens this is an important consideration. Fortunately roots may
be planted almost as safely when two or three years old as at one year.

==Soil.==--Asparagus will grow in any soil that is well cultivated; a deep rich sandy loam
being especially suitable. Calcareous soil is by no means unfavourable to Asparagus; still,
a sand rich in humus is not the less to be desired, as the finest samples of European growth
are the produce of the districts around Paris and Brussels. The London Asparagus, which is
prized by many for its full flavour and tenderness, is for the most part grown near at hand,
in deep alluvial soils enriched with abundance of manure. Nature gives us the key to every
secret that concerns our happiness, and on the cultivation of Asparagus she is liberal in her
teaching. The plant is found growing wild on the sandy coasts of the British Islands--a proof
that it loves sand and salt.

==Preparation of Ground.==--The routine cultivation must begin with a thorough preparation
of the ground. Efficient drainage is imperative, for stagnant water in the subsoil is fatal
to the plant. But a rich loam does not need the extravagant manuring that has been recommended
and practised. Deep digging and, where the subsoil is good, trenching may be recommended, but
an average manuring will suffice, because Asparagus can be effectually aided by annual top-dressings,
and proper surface culture is of great importance in the subsequent stages. It is necessary
to choose an open spot for the plantation. Preparation of the ground should commence in the
autumn and be continued through the winter, a heavy dressing of half-rotten stable manure being
put on in the first instance, and trenched in two feet deep. In the course of a month the whole
piece should be trenched back. If labour is at command a third trenching may be done with advantage,
and the surface may be left ridged up until the time arrives to level it for seeding. It will
be obvious that this routine is of a somewhat costly character, but we are supposing the plantation
is to remain for many years, making an abundant return for the first investment. Still we are
bound to say that a capital supply for a moderate table may be obtained by preparing a piece
of good ground in an open situation in a quite ordinary manner with one deep digging in winter,
adding at the time some six inches or so of fat stable manure, and leaving it thus until the
time arrives for sowing the seed. Then it will be well to level down and point in, half a spade
deep, a thin coat of decayed manure to make a nice kindly seed-bed.

Where soil known to be unsuitable, such as a damp clay or pasty loam, has to be prepared for
Asparagus, it will be found an economical practice to remove the top spit, which we will suppose
to be turf or old cultivated soil, and on the space so cleared make up a bed of the best possible
materials at command. Towards this mixture there is the top spit just referred to. Add any
available lime rubbish from destroyed buildings, sand, peat, leaf-mould, surface soil raked
from the rear of the shrubberies, &c., and the result should be a good compost obtained at
an almost nominal cost.

==Size of Bed, and Sowing Seed.==--At this juncture several questions of considerable importance
arise. And first, whether the crop shall be grown on the flat or in raised beds. Where the
soil is sufficiently deep, and the drainage perfect, the flat system answers well. The advantages
of raised beds are that they deepen the soil, assist the drainage, promote warmth, and thus
aid the growth of an early crop. In fact, raised beds render it possible to grow Asparagus
on soils from which this vegetable could not otherwise be obtained. The preparation is the
same in either case, and therefore we shall make no further allusion to flat beds, but leave
those to adopt them who find their soil and requirements suitable. Now comes the question of
distance, on which depends the width of the beds. The first point may be settled by the measure
of the plant, and the second by the measure of the man. Monster sticks are valued at some tables,
and we shall refer to these later on, but an abundant crop of handsome, though not abnormal,
Asparagus meets the requirements of most households. After many experiments, we have come to
the conclusion that the best mode of insuring a full return of really good sticks, with the
least amount of labour, is to lay out the land in three-feet beds, with two-feet alleys between.
In some instances, no doubt, five-feet beds, containing three rows of roots, one down the middle
and one on each side at a distance of eighteen inches, are preferable. For the majority of
gardens, however, the three-feet bed is a distinct advantage, were it only for the fact that
all excuse for putting a foot on the bed is avoided. On this narrow bed only two rows of plants
will be necessary. Put down the line at nine inches from the edge on both sides, and at intervals
of fifteen inches in the rows dibble holes two inches deep, dropping two or three seeds in
each. This will give a distance between the rows of eighteen inches. In very strong land, heavily
manured, the holes may be eighteen inches apart instead of fifteen. April is the right month
for sowing.

==Thinning.==--When the 'grass' from seeds has grown about six inches high, only the strongest
plant must be left at each station, and they should finally stand at a distance of fifteen
or eighteen inches in the row. Much of the injury reported to follow from close planting has
been the result of carelessness in thinning. The young plant is such a slender, delicate thing,
that, to the thoughtless operator, it seems folly to thin down to one only. The consequence
is that two or three, or perhaps half a dozen, plants are left at each station to 'fight it
out,' and these become so intermixed as to appear to be one, though really many, and of course
amongst them they produce more shoots than can be fed properly by the limited range of their
roots. Severe, or may we say mathematical, thinning is a =sine quâ non=, and it requires sharp
eyes and careful fingers; but it must be done if the Asparagus beds are to become, as they
should be, the pride of the Kitchen Garden.

==Blanching.==--The grave question of white =versus= green Asparagus we cannot entertain, except
so far as concerns the cultivator only. On the point of taste, therefore, we say nothing; and
it is a mere matter of management whether the sticks are blanched to the very tip, or allowed
to become green for some few inches. Blanching is effected in various ways. The heaping up
of soft soil, such as leaf-mould, will accomplish it. On the Continent many contrivances are
resorted to, such as covering the heads with wooden or earthen pipes. In a few districts in
France champagne-bottles with the bottoms cut away are employed. But a strong growth being
secured, the cultivator will find it an easy matter to regulate the degree of colour according
to the requirements of the table he has to serve. As a rule, a moderately stout growth, with
a fair show of purple colour, is everywhere appreciated, and is the easiest to produce, because
the most natural.

There is, however, an interesting point in connection with the production of green Asparagus,
and it is that if wintry weather prevails when the heads are rising (as unfortunately is often
the case) the tender green tops may be melted by frost and become worthless, or may be rendered
so tough as to place the quality below that of blanched Asparagus; for the blanching is also
a protective process, and quickly grown white Asparagus is often more tender and tasty than
that which is green, but has been grown slowly. As the season advances and the heads rise rapidly
the green Asparagus acquires its proper flavour and tenderness, and thus practical considerations
should more or less influence final decisions on matters of taste. The business of the cultivator
is to produce the kind of growth that is required, whether white or green, or of a quality
intermediate between the two. This is easily done, making allowance for conditions. When green
Asparagus is alone in demand, the cultivator may be advised to have in readiness, as the heads
are making their first show, a sufficient supply of some rough and cheap protecting material,
such as grass and coarse weeds, cut with a sickle from odd corners of the shrubbery and meadow
land, or clean hay and straw perfectly free from mildew; but for obvious reasons stable litter
should not be used. A very light sprinkling of material over an Asparagus bed that is making
a first show of produce will ward off the morning frosts, and amply compensate for the little
trouble in saving many tender green sticks that the frosts would melt to a jelly and render
worthless. After the second or third week in May the litter may be removed if needful; but
if appearances are of secondary importance, it may be left to shrink away on the spot.

==Cutting.==--Asparagus as supplied by market growers is needlessly long in the stem. The bundles
have an imposing appearance, no doubt, but the useless length adds nothing to the comfort of
those at table, and is a wasteful tax on the energy of the plant. For home consumption it will
generally suffice if the white portion is about four inches long, and this determines the depth
at which the sticks should be cut. Here it may be useful to remark that deeply buried roots
do not thrive so well as those which are nearer the surface, nor do they produce such early
crops. The sticks are usually cut by thrusting down a stiff narrow-pointed knife, or specially
made saw, close to each shoot; and it is necessary to do this with judgment, or adjacent shoots,
which are not sufficiently advanced to reveal their presence by lifting the soil, may be damaged.
To avoid this risk of injury by the knife it is possible from some beds to obtain the sticks
without the aid of any implement by a twist and pull combined, but the process needs a dexterous
hand and is impracticable in tenacious soils. The sticks of a handsome sample will be white
four or five inches of their length; the tops close, plump, of a purplish-green colour, and
the colour extending two or at most three inches down the stems. Both size and degree of colouring
are, however, so entirely questions of taste that no definite rule can be stated. It is more
to the purpose to say that, if liberally grown, the plant may be cut from in the third year;
and that cutting should cease about the middle of June, or early in July, according to the
district. For the good of the plant the sooner cutting ceases the better, as the next year's
buds have to be formed in the roots by the aid of the top-growth of the current season.

==Weeding and Staking.==--Two other points relating to the general management are worthy of
attention. Some crops get on fairly well when neglected and crowded with weeds. Not so with
Asparagus. The plant appears to have been designed to enjoy life in solitude, being unfit for
competition; and if weeds make way in an Asparagus bed, the cultivator will pay a heavy penalty
for his neglect of duty. The limitation of the beds to a width of three feet, therefore, is
of consequence, because it facilitates weeding without putting a foot on them. The other point
arises out of the necessity of affording support to the frail plant in places where it may
happen to be exposed to wind. When Asparagus in high summer is rudely shaken, the stems snap
off at the base, and the roots lose the service of the top-growth in maturing buds for the
next season. To prevent this injury is easy enough, but the precautions must be adopted in
good time. A free use of light, feathery stakes, such as are employed for the support of Peas,
thrust in firmly all over the bed, will insure all needful support when gales are blowing.
In the absence of pea-sticks, stout stakes, placed at suitable distances and connected with
lengths of thick tarred twine, will answer equally well. In sheltered gardens the protection
of the young growth with litter, and of the mature growth with stakes, need not be resorted
to, but in exposed situations these precautions should not be neglected.

==Manuring Permanent Beds.==--The management of Asparagus includes a careful clean-up of the
beds in autumn. The plants should not be cut down until they change colour; then all the top-growth
may be cleared away and the surface raked clean. Give the beds a liberal dressing of half-decayed
manure, and carefully touch up the sides to make them neat and tidy. It is usual at the same
time to dig and manure the alleys, but this practice we object to =in toto=, because it tends
directly to the production of lean sticks where fat ones are possible; for the roots run freely
in the alleys, and to dig is to destroy them. In the spring clear the beds of the autumn dressing
by raking any remnant of manure into the alleys, and the beds and the alleys should then be
carefully pricked over with a fork two or three inches deep only, and with great care not to
wound any roots.

The application of salt requires judgment. For a time it renders the bed cold, and when followed
by snow the two combine to make a freezing mixture which arrests the growth of established
plants. On a newly made bed salt is unnecessary, and may prove destructive to the roots. The
proper time for applying salt must be determined by the district and the character of the season;
but in no case should the mineral be used until active growth has commenced, although it is
not needful to wait until the growth is visible above the surface. In the southern counties
a suitable opportunity may generally be found from the beginning to the middle of April. Second
and third dressings may follow at intervals of three weeks, which not only stimulate the roots
but keep down weeds.

==Planting Roots.==--In many gardens where there is space for two or three beds only there
will be the very natural desire to secure Asparagus in a shorter time than is possible from
seed, and we therefore proceed to indicate the best method of planting roots. Asparagus roots
do not take kindly to removal, especially old and established plants. The mere drying of the
roots by exposure to the atmosphere is distinctly injurious to them. They will travel safely
a long distance when well packed, but the critical time is between the unpacking and getting
them safely into their final home. Everything should be made ready for the transfer before
the package is opened, and the actual task of planting should be accomplished in the shortest
time possible.

A three-feet bed should be prepared by taking out the soil in such a manner as to leave two
ridges for the roots. The space between ridges to be eighteen inches, and the tops of the ridges
to be so far below the level of the bed that when the soil is returned, and the bed made to
its normal level, the crowns will be about five inches beneath the surface. This may be understood
from the following illustration of a section cut across the bed.

A, A represent the alleys between the beds, and B the top of one bed. The dotted lines show
the ridges on which the roots are to rest at C, C. When the bed is ready, open the package
and place the Asparagus on the ridges at fifteen or eighteen inches apart, allowing about half
the roots of each plant to fall down on either side of the ridge. As a rule it will be wise
to have two pairs of hands engaged in the task. The soil should be filled in expeditiously,
and a finishing touch be given to the bed. Very rarely will it be safe to transplant Asparagus
until the end of March or beginning of April, for although established roots will pass unharmed
through a very severe winter, those which have recently been removed are often killed outright
by a lengthened period of cold wet weather, and especially by thawed snow followed by frost.

==Giant Asparagus.==--Some of the most critical judges of Asparagus in the country are extremely
partial to giant sticks. Their preference is not based on mere superiority in size, but on
the special flavour which is the peculiar merit of these extra-large Asparagus when they are
properly grown. Although there is no difficulty whatever in producing them, it must be admitted
that to insure specimens weighing nearly or quite half a pound, plenty of space must be allowed
for the full development of each plant and a prodigal use of manure is imperative. Where drainage
is effectual, the soil of any well-tilled garden can be made suitable. The roots may be grown
in clumps or in rows. Clumps are planted in triangular form, two feet being allowed between
the three plants of each group, with a distance of five feet between the groups. The more usual
method, however, is to plant in rows. In both cases the cultural details are almost identical,
and to obtain the finest results it is wise to get the preparatory work done at convenient
times in advance of the planting season. Assuming that rows are decided on, commence operations
by digging a broad deep trench, throwing out the soil to the right and left to form sloping
sides until there is a perpendicular depth of twenty-seven inches from the top of the ridge.
About one foot of prepared soil should be placed in the bottom of the trench. This may be composed
of such material as the trimmings of hedges, sweepings of shrubberies, twigs from a faggot
pile, wood ashes and leaf-mould. The constituents must to some extent depend on the materials
at command. What is wanted is a light compost, consisting almost wholly of vegetable matter
in a more or less advanced state of decomposition. Add three or four inches of rich loam, and
on this, at the beginning of April, plant strong one-year roots of a robust-growing variety.
Between the plants it is customary to allow a space of at least two feet, and some growers
put them a full yard apart. Cover the crowns with three inches of rich soil, previously mixed
with manure and laid up for the purpose. The second and following rows are to be treated in
the same way, and the work must be so managed that an equal distance of four and a half or
five feet is left between the rows. When the foliage dies down in autumn, a layer of fertile
loam mixed with rotten manure should be spread over the surface. In the succeeding spring remove
just the top crust of soil and give a thick dressing of decayed manure alone, upon which the
soil can be restored. During the autumn of the second year the furrow must be filled with horse
manure for the winter. Remove this manure in March, and substitute good loam containing a liberal
admixture of decayed manure previously incorporated with the soil. The slight ridges that remain
can then be levelled down. By this treatment large handsome sticks of Asparagus may be cut
in the third year. To maintain the plants in a high state of efficiency, it must be clearly
understood that forcing with horse manure will be necessary every subsequent year. Blanching
may be carried out by any of the usual methods, and Sea Kale pots are both convenient and effectual.
Not a weed should be visible on the beds at any time.

==Forcing== is variously practised, and the best possible system, doubtless, is to force in
the beds, and thereby train the plants to their work so that they become used to it. The growers
who supply Paris with forced Asparagus produce the white sample in the beds, and the green
by removal of the roots to frames. Forcing in beds may be accomplished by means of trenches
filled with fermenting material or by hot-water pipes, the beds in either case being covered
with frames. Where the demand for forced Asparagus is constant, there can be no doubt the hot-water
system is the cheapest as well as the cleanest and most reliable; for a casual supply forcing
in frames answers very well, but it is attended with the disadvantage that when the crop has
been secured the roots are worthless. The practice of forcing may be said to commence with
the formation of the seed-bed, for if it is to be carried on in a systematic and profitable
manner, every detail must be provided for in the original arrangements. The width of the beds
and of the alleys, and the disposition of the plants, will have to be carefully considered,
so as to insure the best results of a costly procedure, and it will be waste of time to begin
forcing until the plants have attained their fourth year. The rough method of market growers
consists in the employment of hot manure in trenches, and also on the beds, after the frames
are put on. The beds are usually four feet wide, the alleys two feet wide and twenty inches
deep, and the plants not more than nine inches apart in the row, there being three or four
rows of plants in the bed. The frames are put on when forcing commences, but the lights are
withheld until the shoots begin to appear. Then the fermenting material is removed from the
beds, the lights are put on, and no air is given, mats being added in cold weather, both to
retain warmth and promote blanching. This method produces a fair market sample, but a much
better growth may be obtained by a good hot-water system, as will be understood from a momentary
consideration of details. By the employment of fermenting material the temperature runs up
rapidly, sometimes extravagantly, so that it is no uncommon event for the growth to commence
at 70° to 80° Fahr., which may produce a handsome sample, but it will be flavourless. The hot-water
system allows of perfect control, and the prudent grower will begin at 50°, rise slowly to
60°, and take care not to exceed 65°; the result will be a sample full of flavour, with a finer
appearance than the best obtainable by the rougher method.

Forcing in frames is systematically practised in many gardens, and as it exhausts the roots
there must be a corresponding production of roots for the purpose. The first requisite is a
good lasting hot-bed, covered with about four inches of light soil of any kind, but preferably
leaf-mould. The roots are carefully lifted and planted as closely as possible on this bed,
and covered with fine soil to a depth of six inches. The sashes are then put on and kept close;
but a little air may be given as the heads rise, to promote colour and flavour. The heat will
generally run to 70°, and that figure should be the maximum allowed. Experienced growers prefer
to force at 60° or 65°, and to take a little more time for the advantage of a finer sample.

==BROAD BEAN==

==Faba vulgaris==

The Broad Bean is a thrifty plant, as hardy as any in the garden, and very accommodating as
to soil. It is quite at home on heavy land, but in common with nearly all other vegetables
it thrives on a deep sandy loam. Considering the productive nature of the plant and its comparatively
brief occupation of the ground, the common Bean must be regarded as one of our most profitable
garden crops. Both the Longpod and Windsor classes should be grown. For general work the Longpods
are invaluable; they are early, thoroughly hardy, produce heavy crops, and in appearance and
flavour satisfy the world at large, as may be proved by appeal to the markets. The Windsor
Beans are especially prized for their superior quality, being tender, full of flavour, and,
if well managed, most tempting in colour when put upon the table.

==For early crops== the Longpods claim attention, and sowings may be made towards the end of
October or during November on a dry soil in a warm situation, sheltered from the north. Choose
a dry day for the operation. On no account should the attempt be made while the soil conditions
are unfavourable, even if the sowing is thereby deferred for some time. The distance must depend
upon the sorts, but two feet will answer generally as the distance between the double rows;
the two lines forming the double rows may be nine inches apart, and the seed two inches deep.
On strong ground a distance of three feet can be allowed between the double rows, but it is
not well to give overmuch space, because the plants protect each other somewhat, and earliness
of production is the matter of chief moment. Thoroughly consolidate the soil to encourage sturdy
hard growth which will successfully withstand the excessive moisture and cold of winter. It
is an excellent practice to prepare a piece of good ground sloping to the south, and on this
to make a plantation in February of plants carefully lifted from the seed rows, wherever they
can be spared as proper thinnings. These should be put in double rows, three feet apart. If
transplanted with care they will receive but a slight check, and will give a successional supply.

==Main Crops.==--Another sowing may be made towards the end of January, but for the main crop
wait until February or March. For succession crops sowings may be made until mid-April, after
which time there is risk of failure, especially on hot soils. A strong soil is suitable, and
generally speaking a heavy crop of Beans may be taken from a well-managed clay. But any deep
cool soil will answer, and where there is a regular demand for Beans the cultivator may be
advised to grow both Longpods and Windsors--the first for earliness and bulk, the second for
quality. The double rows of maincrop Beans should be fully three feet apart, and the plants
quite nine inches apart in the rows. The preparation of the seed-bed must be of a generous
nature. Where grass land or land of questionable quality is broken up and trenched, it will
be tolerably safe to crop it with Beans as a first start; and to prepare it for the crop a
good body of fat stable manure should be laid in between the first and second spits, as this
will carry the crop through, while insuring to the subsoil that has been brought up a time
of seasoning with the least risk of any consequent loss.

There is not much more to be said about growing Beans; the ground must be kept clean, and the
hoe will have its work here as elsewhere. The pinching out of the tops as soon as there is
a fair show of blossom is a good plan, whether fly is visible or not, and it is also advisable
to root out all plants as fast as they finish their work, for if left they throw up suckers
and exhaust the soil. The gathering of the crop is often so carelessly performed that the supply
is suddenly arrested.

==Sowings under Glass.==--In an emergency, Beans may be started in pots in the greenhouse,
or on turf sods in frames for planting out, in precisely the same way as Peas for early crops.
This practice is convenient in cases where heavy water-logged ground precludes outdoor sowing
in autumn and early spring. In all such cases care must be taken that the forcing is of the
most moderate character, or the crop will be poor and late, instead of being plentiful and
early. When pushed on under glass for planting out, the young stock must have as much light
and air as possible consistent with safety, and a slow healthy growth will better answer the
purpose than a rapid growth producing long legs and pale leaves, because the physique of infancy
determines in a great degree that of maturity, not less in plants than in animals.

==DWARF FRENCH BEAN==

==Phaseolus vulgaris==

Among summer vegetables Dwarf French Beans are deservedly in high favour, and are everywhere
sown at the earliest moment consistent with reasonable expectations of their safety. This early
sowing is altogether laudable, for although it occasionally entails the loss of a plantation,
the aggregate result is advantageous, and a very little protection suffices to carry the early
plant through the late spring frosts. But those who supply our tables with green delicacies
do not all recognise the importance of late sowings of Dwarf Beans. Here, again, a risk must
be incurred, but the cost is trifling, and when the summer is prolonged to October the late-sown
Beans are highly prized. Even if they produce plentifully through September there is a great
point gained, but that cannot be secured from the earliest sowings; it is impossible. After
July it is useless to sow Beans, but where the demand is constant, two or three sowings may
be made in this month, choosing the most sheltered nooks that can be found for them. For late
sowings the earliest sorts should have preference.

Dwarf Beans for main crops require a good though somewhat light soil; but any fairly productive
loam will answer the purpose, and the crop will yield an ample return for such reasonable digging
and dressing as a careful cultivator will not fail to bestow. At the same time, it is a matter
of some practical importance that the poorest land ever put under tillage will, in an average
season, yield serviceable crops of these legumes, and on a rich soil of some depth the Dwarf
Bean will endure summer drought better than any other crop in the Kitchen Garden. Earliness
of production is of the highest importance up to a certain point; but an early crop being provided
for, abundance of production next claims consideration, the heaviest bearers being of course
best adapted for main-crop sowing. As regards the sowing and general culture, it is too often
true that Dwarf Beans are crowded injuriously, even in gardens that are usually well managed.
Nothing is gained by crowding. On the contrary, loss always ensues when the individual plant,
through deficiency of space, is hindered in its full development.

==For early crops== which are eventually to come to maturity in the open ground, the first
sowings may be made in the month of April, either in boxes in a gentle heat, or better still
in a frame on a sunny border without artificial heat. In districts where frost frequently prevails
in May, and on heavy soils where early sowings outdoors are impracticable in a wet spring,
the forwarding of plants under glass is very desirable, but the actual date for sowing must
depend on local conditions. The tender growth that is produced by a forcing process is not
well adapted for planting out in May; but a plant produced slowly, with plenty of light and
air, will be stout and strong, and if put out with care as soon as mild weather occurs in May,
will make good progress and yield an early crop. The seed for this purpose should be sown in
rather light turfy soil, as the plants may then be lifted without injury to their fleshy roots.
Careful treatment will be desirable for some time after they are planted, such as protection
from sun and frost, and watering, if necessary, although the less watering the better, provided
the plants can hold their ground. The plot to which these early sowings are to be transplanted
should be light and rich, and lying towards the sun; open the lines with the spade or hoe in
preference to using the dibber, and as fast as the roots are dropped into their places with
their balls of earth unbroken, carefully restore the fine soil from the surface. Rough handling
will seriously interfere with the ultimate result, but ordinary care will insure abundant gatherings
of first-class produce at a time when there are but few in the market. On dry soils a small
sowing may be made about the second week of April on a sheltered south border. Sow in double
rows six inches apart, and allow a distance of two feet between the double rows. When the seedlings
appear give protection if necessary, and in due course thin the plants to six inches apart
in the rows.

==Main crops== are sown from the last week in April to the middle of June. The distance for
the rows may be from one and a half to two feet apart, according to the vigour of the variety,
the strongest growers requiring fully two feet, and the distance between the plants may be
eight to twelve inches; therefore it is well to sow the seed two to three inches apart, and
thin out as soon as the rough leaves appear. The ground being in fairly good condition, it
will only be necessary to chop over the surface, if at all lumpy, and with the hoe draw drills
about two inches deep, which is far better than dibbling, except on very light soil, when dibbling
about three inches deep is quite allowable. Generally speaking, if the plot be kept clean,
the Beans will take care of themselves; but in droughty weather a heavy watering now and then
will be visibly beneficial, for although the plant bears drought well, it is like other good
things in requiring something to live upon. In exposed situations and where storms are prevalent,
it is an excellent practice to support the plants with bushy twigs.

==Late Crops.==--To extend the outdoor supply sowings may be made early in July. When the ground
has become dry and hard, it is advisable to soak the seed in water for five or six hours; the
drills should also be watered, and, if possible, the ground should be covered with rotten dung,
spent hops, or some other mulchy stuff to promote and sustain vegetation.

==The gathering of the crop== should be a matter of discipline. Where it is done carelessly,
there will very soon be none to gather, for the swelling of a few seeds in neglected pods will
cause the plants to cease bearing. Therefore all the Beans should be gathered when of a proper
size, whether they are wanted or not; this is the only way to insure a long-continued supply
of good quality both as to colour and tenderness.

==Autumn, Winter and Spring Supplies.==--By successional sowings under glass a continuous supply
of Beans may be obtained through autumn, winter, and spring. The earliest sowings should be
made at fortnightly intervals, from mid-July to mid-September, in cold frames filled with well-manured
soil. Put in the seeds two inches deep and six inches apart, in rows one foot apart. Water
copiously during the hot months and give protection when the nights become cold. After mid-September
crops of dwarf-growing varieties should be raised in heated pits, or in pots placed in a warm
temperature. In pits the beds should be one foot deep, the drills one foot apart, and the plants
six inches asunder in the rows. When pots are used the ten-inch size will be found most convenient.
Only three-parts fill the pots with a good compost, and insure perfect drainage. Place eight
or nine beans one and a half inches deep in each pot, eventually reducing the number of plants
to five. As the plants progress soil may be added to within an inch and a half of the rims.
Air-giving and watering will need careful management, for the most robust growth possible is
required, but there must be no chill, and any excess of either moisture or dryness will be
immediately injurious. When a few pods are formed feed the plants with alternate applications
of soot water and liquid manure, commencing with highly diluted doses. Thoroughly syringe the
plants twice daily to combat Red Spider. At night a temperature of from 55° to 60° must be
maintained. In mid-February sowings may be made in frames in which six inches of fertile soil
has been placed over a good layer of litter or leaves. From these sowings heavy crops may be
secured in spring and early summer before the outdoor supplies are ready.

==Flageolets== is the name given to the seeds of certain types of Dwarf and Climbing Beans
when used in a state intermediate between the green pods (=Haricots verts=) and the fully ripe
seeds (=Haricots secs=), and they are strongly to be recommended for culinary purposes. The
use of Bean seeds as =Flageolets=, although so little known in this country, is very largely
practised abroad, and in the vegetable markets of many French towns the shelling of the beans
from the semi-ripe pods by women, in readiness for cooking in the manner of green peas, is
a very familiar sight. The seeds of almost all varieties are suitable for use in this way,
irrespective of colour, as this is not developed as would be the case if the seeds were quite ripe.

==CLIMBING FRENCH BEAN==

The Climbing French Bean has all the merits of the Dwarf French Bean, and the climbing habit
not only extends the period of bearing but results in a yield such as cannot be obtained from
the most prolific strains in the Dwarf section. Although the modern Climbing Bean is less vigorous
in growth than the ordinary Runner, the former may generally be had in bearing before the most
forward crop of Runners is ready. For an early supply out of doors seed should be sown under
glass in April, in the manner advised for early crops of the Dwarf class. Gradually harden
off the plants and transfer to permanent quarters on the first favourable opportunity. In the
open ground successive sowings may be made from the end of April to June. The outdoor culture
of Climbing French Beans is practically the same as for the Dwarf varieties, except that the
former are usually grown in double rows about four to five feet apart. Allow the plants to
stand finally at nine to twelve inches each way, and support them with bushy sticks such as
are used for Peas, for Climbing Beans will run far more readily on these than on single sticks.

The Climbing French Bean is especially useful for producing crops under glass in spring and
autumn, and the plants do well when grown in narrow borders with the vines trained close to
the roof-glass by means of wire or string to which the growth readily clings. The general treatment
may be much the same as that recommended for the Dwarf varieties, special care being taken
with regard to watering and the giving of air. During the autumn months atmospheric moisture
must be cautiously regulated or much of the foliage will damp off, while in spring a humid
atmosphere should be maintained and systematic watering practised. Cucumber, Melon, and Tomato
beds from which the crops have been cleared may often be used to advantage for raising a crop
of Climbing Beans, and generally these beds are in excellent condition for the plants without
the addition of manure.

==HARICOT BEAN==

Although in France the term =Haricot= is given to all types of Beans, except those of the English
Broad Bean, in this country the word =Haricot= is generally applied only to the dried seeds
of certain Dwarf and Climbing Beans, notably those which are white. Almost any variety, however,
may be used as =Haricots=, but the most popular are those which produce self-coloured seeds,
such as white, green, and the various shades of brown. Seed should be sown early in May and
the plants treated as advised for French Beans. The pods should not be removed from the plants
until the seeds are thoroughly ripe. If ripening cannot be completed in the open, pull up the
plants and hang them in a shed until the seeds are quite dry.

==RUNNER BEAN==

==Phaseolus multiflorus==

Runner beans need generous cultivation and will amply repay for the most liberal treatment.
The main point to be borne in mind is that the plant possesses the most extensive root-system
of any garden vegetable. Deep digging and liberal manuring are therefore essential where the
production of the finest crops is aimed at. If possible the whole of the ground to be allotted
to Runners should be deeply tilled and well manured in autumn or winter. But where this is
inconvenient, trenching must be carried out in March or early April. Remove the soil to a depth
of two feet, and the trench may be two feet wide for a double row of Beans. Thoroughly break
up the subsoil, half-fill the trench with well-rotted manure, and restore the surface soil
to within a few inches of the level.

==Time of Sowing.==--It is seldom advisable to sow Runners in the open before the month of
May is fairly in, for they are less hardy than Dwarf Beans, but as late supplies are everywhere
valued it is important to sow again in June. Of course these late crops are subject to the
caprices of autumnal weather, although they often continue in bearing until quite late in the
season. In districts where spring frosts are destructive, and on cold soils or in very exposed
situations, plants may be raised in boxes for transferring to the open ground, as advised for
Dwarf Beans, but in the case of Runners allow a space of three inches between the seeds.

==Distances for Rows, &c.==--Frequently the rows of Runner Beans are injuriously close, and
the total crop is thereby diminished. On deep, well-prepared soils, single rows generally prove
most productive, and they should be not less than five feet apart. But where the soil is shallow
and generous preparation is not possible, and in wind-swept positions, double rows, set nine
inches apart, are more satisfactory. Between the double rows allow a space of from six to eight
feet, on which Cauliflower, Lettuce, or other small-growing subjects may be planted out. Two
inches is the proper depth for putting in the seed, and it is a wise policy to sow liberally
and eventually to thin the plants to a distance of from nine to twelve inches apart in the rows.

==Staking.==--It will always pay to give support by stakes, but where these are not available
wire netting or strands of stout string make efficient substitutes. Immediately the plants
are a few inches high, insert the sticks on either side of the rows and tie them firmly to
the horizontal stakes placed in the fork near to the top. The means of support should be decided
upon and erected in advance of planting out Runners which have been raised in boxes, thus avoiding
any risk of injury to the roots.

But Runners make a good return when kept low by topping, and without any support whatever,
a system adopted by many market gardeners. For this method of culture space the plants one
foot apart in single rows set three feet apart. Pinch out the tips when the plants are eighteen
inches high and repeat the operation when a further eighteen inches of growth has formed.

==General Cultivation.==--As slugs and snails are particularly partial to the young plants,
an occasional dusting of old soot, slaked lime, or any gritty substance should be given to
render the leaves unpalatable to these pests. During drought copious watering of the rows is
essential, especially on shallow soils; spraying the plants in the evening with soft water
is also freely practised and this assists the setting of flowers in dry weather. A mulch of
decayed manure will prove of great benefit to the plants and will prolong the period of bearing.

In some gardens Runners are grown in groups running up rods tied together at the top, and when
these groups are arranged at regular intervals on each side of a path, the result is extremely
pleasing. This mode of culture interferes to a very trifling extent with other crops, and the
ornamental effect may be enhanced by growing varieties which have white, red, and bicolor flowers.

Preserving the roots of Runners is sometimes recommended. We can only say that it is a ridiculous
proceeding. The utmost care is required to keep the roots through the winter, and they are
comparatively worthless in the end. A pint of seed will give a better crop than a number of
roots that have cost great pains for their preservation.

==Runner Beans for Exhibition==.--Although fine specimens fit for exhibition may frequently
be gathered from the general garden crop, a little extra attention to the cultivation of Runner
Beans for show work will be well repaid. When staged the pods must possess not only the merit
of mere size, but they should be perfect in shape and quite young. Rapid as well as robust
growth is therefore essential to success. Select the strongest-growing plants in the rows,
and for a few weeks before the pods are wanted give alternate applications of liquid manure
and clear water. Pinch out all side growths, and limit the number of pods to two in each cluster.

==WAXPOD BEAN==

Many visitors to the Continent have learned to appreciate the fine qualities of the Waxpod
Beans, sometimes known as Butter Beans, the pods of which are usually cooked whole. There are
two types, the dwarf and the runner, for which respectively the culture usual for Dwarf French
Beans and Runner Beans will be quite suitable.

==GARDEN BEET==

==Beta vulgaris==

As a food plant the Beet scarcely obtains the attention it deserves. There is no lack of appreciation
of its beauty for purposes of garnishing, or of its flavour as the component of a salad; but
other uses to which it is amenable for the comfort and sustenance of man are sometimes neglected.
As a simple dish to accompany cold meats the Beet is most acceptable. Dressed with vinegar
and white pepper, it is at once appetising, nutritive, and digestible. Served as fritters,
it is by some people preferred to Mushrooms, as it then resembles them in flavour, and is more
easily digested. It makes a first-rate pickle, and as an agent in colouring it has a recognised
value, because of the perfect wholesomeness of the rich crimson hue it imparts to any article
of food requiring it.

==Frame Culture==.--Where the demand for Beet exists the whole year through, early sowings
in heat are indispensable. For this method of cultivation the Globe variety should be employed,
and two sowings, the first in February and another in March, will generally provide a good
supply of roots in advance of the outdoor crops. Sow in drills on a gentle hot-bed and thin
the plants from six to nine inches apart in the rows. As soon as the plants are large enough,
give air at every suitable opportunity. Fresh young Beets grown in this way find far more favour
at table than those which have been stored for several months. They are also of great service
for exhibition, especially in collections of early vegetables.

==Preparation of Ground==.--The cultivation of Beet is of the most simple nature, but a certain
amount of care is requisite for the production of a handsome and profitable crop. Beet will
make a fair return on any soil that is properly prepared for it; but to grow this root to perfection
a rich light loam is necessary, free from any trace of recent or strong manure. A rank soil,
or one to which manure has been added shortly before sowing the seed, will produce ugly roots,
some coarse with overgrowth, others forked and therefore of little value, and others, perhaps,
cankered and worthless. The soil should be well prepared by deep digging some time before making
up the seed-bed, and it is sound practice to grow Beet on plots that have been heavily manured
in the previous year for Cauliflower, Celery, or any other crop requiring good cultivation.
If the soil from an old Melon or Cucumber bed can be spared, it may be spread over the land
and dug in, and the piece should be broken up in good time to become mellow before the seed
is sown. Seaweed is a capital manure for Beet, especially if laid at the bottom of the trench
when preparing the ground. A moderate dressing of salt may be added with advantage, as the
Beet is a seaside plant.

==Early Crops==.--Where frames are not available for providing early supplies of Beetroot,
forward crops may often be obtained from the open ground by making sowings of the Globe variety
from the end of March to mid-April, in a sheltered position. Of course, the earlier the sowing
the greater the risk of destruction by frost, and birds may take the seedlings. A double thickness
of fish netting, however, stretched over stakes about one foot above the soil, will afford
protection from the former and prevent the depredations of the latter. Set the drills about
twelve inches apart and sow the seed one and a half to two inches deep. Thin the plants early
and allow them to stand finally at nine inches in the rows.

==Main Crop.==--The most important crop is that required for salading, for which a deep-coloured
Beet of rich flavour is to be preferred, and the aim of the cultivator should be to obtain
roots of moderate size and of perfect shape and finish. The ground having been trenched two
spades deep early in the year, may be made up into four-and-a-half-feet beds some time in March,
preparatory to sowing the seed. The main sowing should never be made until quite the end of
April or beginning of May. For a neat crop, sow in drills one and a half to two inches deep,
and spaced from twelve to fifteen inches apart. When finally thinned the plants should stand
about nine inches apart in the rows. Hand weeding will have to follow soon after sowing, and
perhaps the hoe may be required to supplement the hand. The thinning should be commenced as
early as possible, but it is waste of time to plant the thinnings, and it is equally waste
of time to water the crop. In fact, if the ground is well prepared, weeding and thinning comprise
the whole remainder of the cultivation.

Some of the smaller and more delicate Beets, of a very dark colour, may be sown in drills a
foot or fifteen inches apart and thinned to six inches distance in the drills. We have, indeed,
lifted pretty crops of the smaller Beets at four inches, but it is not prudent to crowd the
plants, as the result will be thin roots with long necks.

On stony shallow soils, where it is difficult to grow handsome long Beets, the Globe and Intermediate
varieties may be tried with the prospect of a satisfactory result. We have in hot seasons found
these most useful on a damp clay where fine specimens of long Beet were rarely obtainable.
From this same unkind clay it is possible to secure good crops of long Beets, by making deep
holes with a dibber a foot apart and filling these with sandy stuff from the compost yard and
sowing the seed over them. It is a tedious process, but it benefits the land for the next crop,
and the Beets pay for it in the first instance.

==Late Crops.==--By sowing the Globe or Turnip-rooted varieties in July, useful roots may be
obtained during the autumn and winter. Space the drills as advised for early crops. Seed may
also with advantage be thinly sown broadcast; the young plants will thus protect one another,
and the roots may be pulled as they mature.

==Lifting and Storing.==--A Beet crop may be left in the ground during the winter if aided
by a covering of litter during severe frost. But it is safer out of the ground than in it,
and the proper time to lift is when a touch of autumn frost has been experienced. Dry earth
or sand, in sufficient quantity, should be ready for the storing, and a clamp in a sheltered
corner will answer if shed room is scarce. In any case, a dry and cool spot is required, for
damp will beget mildew, and warmth will cause growth. In cutting off the tops before storing,
take care not to cut too near the crown, or injurious bleeding will follow. On the other hand,
the long fang-like roots may be shortened without harm, for the slight bleeding that will occur
at that end will not affect more than the half-inch or so next to the cut part. A little experience
will teach anyone that Beets must be handled with care, or the goodness will run out of them.
Many cooks bake Beets because boiling so often spoils them; but if they are in no way cut or
bruised, and are plunged into boiling water and kept boiling for a sufficient length of time--half
an hour to two hours, according to size--there will be but a trifling difference between boiling
and baking.

==The Silver, or Sea Kale, Beet== is grown principally for the stalk and the midrib of the
leaf, considered by some to be equal to Asparagus. In a rank soil, with plenty of liquid manure,
the growth is quick, robust, and the plant of good quality, without the necessity of earthing
up. Sow in April and May, thinly in drills, and allow the plants eventually to stand at about
fifteen inches apart each way. The leaves should be pulled, not cut. As the stalks often turn
black in cooking, it is advisable to add a few drops of lemon-juice to the water in which they
are boiled, and, of course, soda should never be used. They should be served up in the same
manner as Asparagus. The remainder of the leaf is dressed as Spinach.

==BORECOLE, or KALE==

==Brassica oleracea acephala==

The Borecoles or Kales are indispensable for the supply of winter vegetables, and their importance
becomes especially manifest when severe frost has made general havoc in the Kitchen Garden.
Then it is seen that the hardier Borecoles are proof against the lowest temperature experienced
in these islands; and, while frost leaves the plants unharmed, it improves the tops and side
sprouts that are required for table purposes.

As regards soil, the Borecoles are the least particular of the whole race of Brassicas. They
appear to be capable of supplying the table with winter greens even when grown on hard rocky
soil, but good loam suits them admirably, and a strong clay, well tilled, will produce a grand
sample. Granting, then, that a good soil is better than a bad one, we urge the sowing of seed
as early as possible for insuring to the plant a long season of growth. But early sowing should
be followed by early planting, for it is bad practice to leave the plants crowded in the seed-bed
until the summer is far advanced. This, however, is often unavoidable, and it is well to consider
in time where the plants are to go, and when, according to averages, the ground will be vacant
to receive them. The first sowing may be made early in March, and another in the middle of
April. These two sowings will suffice for almost all the purposes that can be imagined. A good
seed-bed in an open spot is absolutely necessary. It is usual to draw direct from the seed-bed
for planting out as opportunities occur, and this method answers fairly well. But when large
enough it is better practice to prick out as a preparation for the final planting, because
a stouter and handsomer plant is thereby secured. If it is intended to follow the rough and
ready plan, the seed drills should be nine inches apart; but for pricking out six inches will
answer, and thus a very small bed will provide a lot of plants. When pricked out, the plants
should be six inches apart each way, and they should go to final quarters as soon as the leaves
touch one another. On the flat, a fair distance between Borecoles is two feet apart each way,
but some vigorous kinds in good ground will pay for another foot of space, and will yield enormous
crops when their time arrives. Transplanting is usually done in June and July, and in many
gardens Kales are planted between the rows of second-early or maincrop Potatoes. The work should
be done during showery weather if possible, but these Brassicas have an astonishing degree
of vitality. If put out during drought very little water is required to start them, and as
the cool weather returns they will grow with vigour. But good cultivation saves a plant from
extreme conditions; and it is an excellent practice to dig in green manure when preparing ground
for Kales, because a free summer growth is needful to the formation of a stout productive plant.

We have suggested that two sowings may be regarded as generally sufficient, but we are bound
to take notice of the fact that the late supplies of these vegetables are sometimes disappointing.
In a mild winter the Kales reserved for use in spring will be likely to grow when they should
stand still, and at the first break of pleasant spring weather they will bolt, very much to
the vexation of those who expected many a basket of sprouts from them. A May sowing planted
out in a cold place may stand without bolting until spring is somewhat advanced. Kale of the
'Asparagus' type, such as Sutton's Favourite, will often prove successful when sown as late
as July.

As regards the varieties, they agree pretty nearly in constitution, although they differ much
in appearance and in the power of resisting the excitement of spring weather. But in this section
of vegetables there are a few very interesting subjects. The Variegated and Crested Kales are
extremely ornamental and eminently useful in large places for decorative purposes. These do
not require so rich a soil as Sutton's A1 or Curled Scotch, and they must have the fullest
exposure to bring out their peculiarities. It is found that in somewhat dry calcareous soils
these plants acquire their highest colour and most elegant proportions. When planted by the
sides of carriage drives and in other places where their colours may be suitably displayed,
it is a good plan to cut off the heads soon after the turn of the year, as this promotes the
production of side shoots of the most beautiful fresh colours. A crop of Kale may be advantageously
followed by Celery.

==BROCCOLI==

==Brassica oleracea botrytis asparagoides==

The great importance of this crop is indicated by the long list of varieties and the still
longer list of synonyms. As a vegetable it needs no praise, and our sole business will be to
treat of the cultivation.

Of necessity we begin with generalities. Any good soil will grow Broccoli, but it is a strong-land
plant, and a well-tilled clay should yield first-class crops. But there are so many kinds coming
into use at various seasons, that the cultivation may be regarded as a somewhat complex subject.
We will therefore premise that the best must be made of the soil at command, whatever it may
be. The Cornish growers owe their success in great part to their climate, which carries their
crops through the winter unhurt; but they grow Broccoli only on rich soil, and keep it in good
heart by means of seaweed and other fertilisers. All the details of Broccoli culture require
a liberal spirit and careful attention, and the value of a well-grown crop justifies first-class
treatment. On the other hand, a badly-grown crop will not pay rent for the space it covers,
to say nothing of the labour that has been devoted to it.

==The Seed-bed.==--Broccoli should always be sown on good seed-beds and be planted out; the
seed-beds should be narrow, say three or three and a half feet wide, and the seed must be sown
in drills half an inch deep at the utmost--less if possible; and where sparrows haunt the garden
it will be well to cover the beds with netting, or protect the rows with wire pea guards. A
quick way of protecting all round seeds against small birds is to put a little red lead in
a saucer, then lightly sprinkle the seed with water and shake it about in the red lead. Not
a bird or mouse will touch seed so treated.

The seed-beds must be tended with scrupulous care to keep down weeds and avert other dangers.
It is of great importance to secure a robust plant, short, full of colour, and free from club
at the root. Now, cleanliness is in itself a safeguard. It promotes a short sturdy growth,
because where there are no weeds or other rubbish the young plant has ample light and air.
Early thinning and planting is another important matter. If the land is not ready for planting,
thin the seed-bed and prick out the seedlings. A good crop of Broccoli is worth any amount
of trouble, although trouble ought to be an unknown word in the dictionary of a gardener.

==Manuring Ground.==--As a rule, Broccoli should be planted in fresh ground, and, in mild districts,
if the soil is in some degree rank with green manure the crop will be none the worse for it.
But rank manure is not needful; a deep, well-dug, sweet loam will produce a healthy growth
and neat handsome heads. However, it is proper to remark, that if any rank manure is in the
way, or if the ground is poor and wants it, the Broccoli will take to it kindly, and all the
rankness will be gone long before they produce their creamy heads. Still, it must be clearly
understood that the more generous the treatment, the more succulent will be the growth, and
in cold climates a succulent condition may endanger the crop when hard weather sets in.

==Method of Planting.==--Broccoli follows well upon Peas, early Potatoes, early French Beans,
and Strawberries that are dug in when gathered from for the last time. But it does not follow
well upon Cabbage, Turnip, or Cauliflower; if Broccoli must follow any of these, dig deeply,
manure heavily, and in planting, dust a little freshly slaked lime in the holes. The times
of planting will depend on the state of the plants and the proper season of their heading in.
But everywhere and always the plants should be got out of the seed-bed into their permanent
quarters as soon as possible, for the longer they stay in the seed-bed the more likely are
they to become drawn above and clubbed below. As regards distances, too, the soil, the variety,
and the season must be considered. For all sorts the distances range from two to two and a
half feet; and for most of the medium-sized sorts that have to stand out through the winter
for use in spring, a distance of eighteen to twenty-four inches is usually enough, because
if they are rather close they protect one another. But with strong sorts in strong soils and
kind climates, two feet and a half every way is none too much even for safe wintering. Plant
firmly, water if needful, and do not stint it; but, if possible, plant in showery weather,
and give no water at all. Watering may save the crop, but the finest pieces of Broccoli are
those that are secured without any watering whatever.

==Autumn Broccoli.==--To grow Autumn Broccoli profitably, sow in February, March, and April,
the early sowings in a frame to insure vigorous growth, and the later sowings in the open ground.
Plant out as soon as possible in fresh land that has been deeply tilled. If the soil is poor,
draw deep drills, fill them with fat manure, and plant by hand, taking care to press round
each root crumbs from the surface soil. This will give them a good start, and they will take
care of themselves afterwards. When they show signs of heading in, run in shallow drills of
Prickly Spinach between them, and as this comes up the Broccoli will be drawn, leaving the
Spinach a fair chance of making a good stolen crop, needing no special preparation whatever.
Another sowing of Broccoli may be made in May, but the early sowings, if a little nursed in
the first instance, will pay best, because early heads are scarce, whereas late Broccoli are
plentiful.

==Winter Broccoli== should not be sown before the end of March and thence to the end of April.
As a rule, the April sowing will make the best crop, although much depends on season, soil,
and climate. Begin to plant out early, and continue planting until a sufficient breadth of
ground is covered. Within reasonable limits it will be found that the time of planting does
not much affect the date when the heads turn in, and only in a moderate degree influences the
size of them.

==Spring Broccoli== are capricious, no matter what the world may say. It will occasionally
happen that sorts planted for cutting late in spring will turn in earlier than they are wanted,
and the sun rather than the seedsman must be blamed for their precocity. In average seasons
the late sorts turn in late; but the Broccoli is a sensitive plant, and unseasonable warmth
results in premature development. Sow the Spring Broccoli in April and May, the April sowing
being the more important. It will not do, however, to follow a strict rule save to this effect,
that early and late sowings are the least likely to succeed, while mid-season sowings--say
from the middle of April to the middle of May--will, as a rule, make the best crops. Where
there is a constant demand for Broccoli in the early months of the year, two or three small
sowings will be better than one large sowing.

==Summer Broccoli== are useful when Peas are late, and they are always over in time to make
way for the glut of the Pea crop. Late Queen may, in average seasons, be cut at the end of
May and sometimes in June, if sown about the middle of May in the previous year, and carefully
managed. This excellent variety can, as a rule, be relied on, both to withstand a severe winter
in an exposed situation and to keep up the supplies of first-class vegetables until the first
crop of Cauliflower is ready, and Peas are coming in freely. Generally speaking, smallish heads,
neat in shape and pure in colour, are preferred. They are the most profitable as a crop and
the most acceptable for the table. An open, breezy place should be selected for a plantation
of late Broccoli, the land well drained, and it need not be made particularly rich with manure.
But good land is required, with plenty of light and air to promote a dwarf sturdy growth and
late turning in.

==Protection in Winter==.--Various plans are adopted for the protection of Broccoli during
winter. Much is to be said in favour of leaving them to the risk of all events, for certain
it is that finer heads are obtained from undisturbed plants than by any interference with them,
provided they escape the assaults of winter frost. But in such a matter it is wise to be guided
by the light of experience. In cold districts, and on wet soils where Broccoli do not winter
well, heeling over may be adopted. There are several ways of accomplishing the task, the most
successful method being managed thus. Open a trench at the northern end, and gently push over
each plant in the first row so that the heads incline to the north. Put a little mould over
each stem to settle it, but do not earth it up any more than is needful to render it secure.
Push over the next row, and the next, and so on, finishing off between them neatly and leaving
the plants nearly as they were before, save that they now all look northward, and their sloping
stems are a little deeper in the earth than they were in the first instance. This should be
done during fine weather in November, and if the plants flag a little they should have one
good watering at the roots. In the course of about ten days it will be scarcely perceptible
that they have been operated on. They may be lifted and replanted with their heads to the north,
but this is apt to check them too much. In exceptionally cold seasons cover the plot with straw
or bracken, but this must be removed in wet weather. When it is seen that the heads are forming
and hard weather is apprehended, some growers take them up with good balls of earth and plant
them in a frame, or even pack them neatly in a cellar, and the heads finish fairly well, but
not so well as undisturbed plants. It is impossible, however, to cut good heads in a very severe
winter without some such protective measures. In many gardens glass is employed for protecting
Winter Broccoli, in which case the plantations are so shaped that the frames will be easily
adapted to them without any disturbance of the plants whatever. There must be allowed a good
space between the beds to be covered, and the plants must be fifteen to eighteen inches apart,
with the object of protecting the largest number by means of a given stock of frames.

==Sprouting Broccoli==, both white and purple, are invaluable to supply a large bulk of a most
acceptable vegetable in winter and early spring. Sow in April and the plants may be treated
in the same way as other hardy winter greens. They should have the most liberal culture possible,
for which they will not fail to make an ample return. The Purple Sprouting Broccoli is a favourite
vegetable in the kitchen, because of its freedom from the attacks of all kinds of vermin.

==BRUSSELS SPROUTS==

==Brassica oleracea bullata gemmifera==

Brussels Sprouts are everywhere regarded as the finest autumnal vegetable of the strictly green
class. They are, however, often very poorly grown, because the first principle of success--a
long growing season--is not recognised. It is in the power of the cultivator to secure this
by sowing seed at the end of February, or early in March, on a bed of light rich soil made
in a frame, and from the frame the plants should be pricked out into an open bed of similar
light fresh soil as soon as they have made half a dozen leaves. From this bed they should be
transferred to their permanent quarters before they crowd one another, the object being at
each stage to obtain free growth with a sturdy habit, for mere length of stem is no advantage;
it is a disadvantage when the plant is deficient of corresponding substance. The ground should
be made quite firm, in order to encourage robust growth which in turn will produce shapely
solid buttons. This crop is often grown on Potato land, the plants being put out between the
rows in the course of the summer. It is better practice, however, to plant Kales or Broccoli
in Potato ground, because of the comparative slowness of their growth, and to put the Sprouts
on an open plot freely dressed with somewhat fresh manure. If a first-class strain, such as
Sutton's Exhibition, is grown, it will not only pay for this little extra care, but will pay
also for plenty of room, say two and a half feet apart every way at the least; and one lot,
made up of the strongest plants drawn separately, may be in rows three feet apart, and the
plants two and a half feet asunder. For the compact-growing varieties two feet apart each way
will generally suffice. Maintain a good tilth by the frequent use of the hoe during summer,
and as autumn approaches regularly remove all decaying leaves. Those who have been accustomed
to treat Sprouts and Kales on one uniform rough plan will be surprised at the result of the
routine we now recommend. The plants will button from the ground line to the top, and the buttons
will set so closely that, once taken off, it will be impossible to replace them. Moderate-sized,
spherical, close, grass-green Sprouts are everywhere esteemed, and there is nothing in the
season more attractive in the markets.

Crops treated as advised will give early supplies of the very finest Sprouts. For successional
crops it will be sufficient to sow in the open ground in the latter part of March, or early
in April, and plant out in the usual manner; in other words, to treat in the commonplace way
of the ordinary run of Borecoles. With a good season and in suitable ground there will be an
average crop, which will probably hold out far into the winter. It is important to gather the
crop systematically. The Sprouts are perfect when round and close, with not a leaf unfolded.
They can be snapped off rapidly, and where the quantity is considerable they should be sorted
into sizes. The season of use will be greatly prolonged, and the tendency of the Sprouts to
burst be lessened, if the head is cut last of all.

==CABBAGE==

==Brassica oleracea capitata==

The Cabbage is a great subject, and competes with the Potato for pre-eminence in the cottage
garden, in the market garden, and on the farm, sometimes with such success as to prove the
better paying crop of the two. It may be said in a general way that a Cabbage may be grown
almost anywhere and anyhow; that it will thrive on any soil, and that the seed may be sown
any day in the year. All this is nearly possible, and proves that we have a wonderful plant
to deal with; but it is too good a friend of man to be treated, even in a book, in an off-hand
manner. The Cabbage may be called a lime plant, and a clay plant; but, like almost every other
plant that is worth growing, a deep well-tilled loam will suit it better than any other soil
under the sun. It has one persistent plague only. Not the Cabbage butterfly; for although that
is occasionally a troublesome scourge, it is not persistent, and may be almost invisible for
years together. Nor is it the aphis, although in a hot dry season that pest is a fell destroyer
of the crop. The great plague is club or anbury, for which there is no direct remedy or preventive
known. But indirectly the foe may be fought successfully. The crop should be moved about, and
wherever Cabbage has been grown, whether in a mere seed-bed or planted out, it should be grown
no more until the ground has been well tilled and put to other uses for one year at least,
and better if for two or three years. There are happy lands whereon club has never been seen,
and the way to keep these clear of the pest is to practise deep digging, liberal manuring,
and changing the crops to different ground as much as possible. A mild outbreak of club may
generally be met by first removing the warts from the young plants, and then dipping them in
a puddle made of soot, lime, and clay. But when it appears badly amongst the forward plants,
their growth is arrested, the plot becomes offensive, and the only course left is to draw the
bad plants, burn them, and give up Cabbage growing on those quarters for several years. The
question as to why the roots of brassicaceous plants are subject to this scourge on some soils,
while plants from the same seed-bed remain healthy when transferred to different land, is deeply
interesting, and the subject is discussed later on in the chapter on 'The Fungus Pests of certain
Garden Plants.' Here it is sufficient to say that the presence of the disease is generally
an indication that the soil is deficient in lime. A dressing at the rate of from 14 to 28 or
even 56 pounds per square pole may be necessary to restore healthy conditions. The outlay will
not be wasted, for lime is not merely a preventive, it has often an almost magical influence
on the fertility of land.

For general purposes Cabbages may be classified as early and late. The early kinds are extremely
valuable for their earliness, but only a sufficient quantity should be grown, because, as compared
with mid-season and late sorts, they are less profitable. In the scheme of cropping it may
be reckoned that a paying crop of Cabbage will occupy the ground through a whole year; for
although this may not be an exact statement, the growing time will be pretty well gone before
the ground is clear. After Cabbage, none of the Brassica tribe should be put on the land, and,
if possible, the crop to follow should be one requiring less of sulphur and alkalies, for of
these the Cabbage is a great consumer, hence the need for abundant manuring in preparation
for it. The presence of sulphur explains the offensiveness of the exhalations from Cabbage
when in a state of decay.

==Spring-sown Cabbage for Summer and Autumn use==.--To insure the best succession of Cabbage
it will be necessary to recognise four distinct sowings, any of which, save the autumnal sowing,
may be omitted. Begin with a sowing of the earliest kinds in the month of February. For this,
pans or boxes must be used, and the seed should be started in a pit or frame, or in a cool
greenhouse. When forward enough, prick out in a bed of light rich soil in a cold frame, and
give plenty of air. Before the seedlings become crowded harden them off and plant out, taking
care to lift them tenderly with earth attached to their roots to minimise the check. These
will heart quickly and be valued as summer Cabbages. The second sowing is to be made in the
last week of March, and to consist of early kinds, including a few of the best type of Coleworts.
As these advance to a planting size, they may be put out a few at a time as plots become vacant,
and they will be useful in various ways from July to November or later. A third sowing may
be made in the first or second week of May of small sorts and Coleworts; and these again may
be planted out as opportunities occur, both in vacant plots for hearting late in the year,
and as stolen crops in odd places to draw while young. The second and third sowings need not
be pricked out from the seed-bed, but may be taken direct therefrom to the places where they
are to finish their course.

In planting out, the spacing must be regulated according to the size of the variety grown.
If put out in beds, the plants may be placed from one to two feet apart, and the rows one and
a half to two feet asunder. All planting should be done in showery weather if possible, or
with a falling barometer. It may not always be convenient to wait for rain, and happily it
is a peculiarity of Brassicas, and of Cabbage in particular, that the plants will endure, after
removal, heat and drought for some time with but little harm, and again grow freely after rain
has fallen. But good cultivation has in view the prevention of any such check. At the best
it is a serious loss of time in the brief growing season. Therefore in droughty weather it
will be advisable to draw shallow furrows and water these a day in advance of the planting,
and if labour and stuff can be found it will be well to lay in the furrows a sprinkling of
short mulchy manure to follow instantly upon the watering; then plant with the dibber, and
the work is done. If the mulch cannot be afforded, water must be given, and to water the furrows
in advance is better than watering after the planting, as a few observations will effectually
prove. If drought continues, water should be given again and again. The trouble must be counted
as nothing compared with the certain loss of time while the plant stands still, to become,
perhaps, infested with blue aphis, and utterly ruined. As a matter of fact, a little water
may be made to go a long way, and every drop judiciously administered will more than repay
its cost. The use of the hoe will greatly help the growth, and a little earth may be drawn
towards the stems, not to the extent of 'moulding-up,' for that is injurious, but to 'firm'
the plants in some degree against the gales that are to be expected as the days decline.

==Autumn-sown Cabbage for Spring and Summer use.==--The fourth, or autumn, sowing is by far
the most important of the year, and the exact time when seed should be put in deserves careful
consideration. A strong plant is wanted before winter, but the growth must not be so far advanced
as to stand in peril from severe and prolonged frost. There is also the risk that plants which
are too forward may bolt when spring arrives. In some districts it is the practice to sow in
July, and to those who find the results entirely satisfactory we have nothing to say. Our own
experiments have convinced us that, for the southern counties, August is preferable, and it
is wise to make two sowings in that month, the first quite early and the second about a fortnight
later. Here it is necessary to observe that the selection of suitable varieties is of even
greater consequence than the date of sowing. A considerable number of the Cabbages which possess
a recognised value for spring sowing are comparatively useless when sown in August. Success
depends on the capability of the plant to form a heart when the winter is past instead of starting
a seed-stem, and this reduces the choice to very narrow limits. Among the few Cabbages which
are specially adapted for August sowing, Sutton's Harbinger, April, Flower of Spring, Favourite,
and Imperial may be favourably mentioned, and even in small gardens at least two varieties
should be sown. Where Spring Cabbages manifest an unusual tendency to bolt, sowing late in
August, followed by late planting, will generally prove a remedy, always assuming that suitable
varieties have been sown.

The planting of autumn-sown Cabbages should be on well-made ground, following Peas, Beans,
or Potatoes, and as much manure should be dug in as can be spared, for Cabbage will take all
it can get in the way of nourishment. If the entire crop is to be left for hearting, a minimum
of fifteen inches each way will be a safe distance for the smallest varieties. Supposing every
alternate plant is to be drawn young for consumption as Coleworts, a foot apart will suffice,
but in this case the surplus plants must be cleared off by the time spring growth commences.
This procedure will leave a crop for hearting two feet apart, and when the heads are cut the
stumps will yield a supply of Sprouts. As these Sprouts appear when vegetables are none too
plentiful, they are welcome in many households, and make a really delicate dish of greens.

By sowing quick-growing varieties of Cabbage in drills during July and August, and thinning
the plants early, thus avoiding the check of transplanting, heads may often be had fit for
cutting in October and November.

==The Red Cabbage== is grown for pickling and also for stewing, being in demand at many tables
as an accompaniment to roasted partridges. The plant requires the best ground that can be provided
for it, with double digging and plenty of manure. Two sowings may be made, the first in April
for a supply in autumn for cooking, and the second in August for a crop to stand the winter
and to supply large heads for pickling.

==SAVOY CABBAGE==

==Brassica oleracea bullata==

The Savoy Cabbage is directly related to Brussels Sprouts, though differing immensely in appearance.
It is of great value for the bulk of food it produces, as well as for its quality as a table
vegetable during the autumn and winter. In all the essential points the Savoy may be grown
in the same way as any other Cabbage, but it is the general practice to sow the seed in spring
only, the time being determined by requirements. For an early supply, sow in February in a
frame, and in an open bed in March, April, and May for succession. This vegetable needs a rich
deep soil to produce fine heads, but it will pay better on poor soil than most other kinds
of Cabbage, more especially if the smaller sorts are selected. Savoys are not profitable in
the form of Collards; hence it is advisable to plant in the first instance at the proper distances,
say twelve inches for the small sorts, eighteen for those of medium growth, and twenty to twenty-four
where the ground is strong and large heads are required. In private gardens the smaller kinds
are much the best, but the market grower must give preference to those that make large, showy
heads.

==CAPSICUM and CHILI==

==Capsicum annuum, C. baccatum==

Capsicums and Chilis are so interesting and ornamental that it is surprising they are grown
in comparatively few gardens. Sometimes there is reason to lament that Cayenne pepper is coloured
with drugs, but the remedy is within reach of those who find the culture of Capsicums easy,
and to compound the pepper is not a difficult task. The large-fruited varieties may also be
prepared in various ways for the table, if gathered while quite young and before the fruits
change colour.

The cultivation of Capsicums is a fairly simple matter. The best course of procedure is to
sow seed thinly in February or March in pots or pans of fine soil placed on a gentle hot-bed
or in a house where the temperature is maintained at about 55°. Pot on the young plants as
they develop and keep them growing without a check. Spray twice daily, for Capsicums require
atmospheric moisture and the Red Spider is partial to the plant. Nice specimens may be grown
in pots five to eight inches in diameter, beyond which it is not desirable to go, and as the
summer advances these may be taken to the conservatory. Plants intended for fruiting in warm
positions out of doors should be hardened off in readiness for transfer at the end of May.
In gardens favourably situated, as are many in the South of England, it is sufficient to sow
a pinch of seed on an open border in the middle of May, and put a hand glass over the spot.
The plants from this sowing may be transferred to any sunny position, and will yield an abundant
crop of peppers.

The Bird Pepper or Chili is grown in precisely the same way as advised for Capsicum.

To prepare the pods for pepper, put the required number into a wire basket, and consign them
to a mild oven for about twelve hours. They are not to be cooked, but desiccated, and in most
cases an ordinary oven, with the door kept open to prevent the heat rising too high, will answer
perfectly. Being thus prepared, the next proceeding is to pound them in a mortar with one-fourth
their weight of salt, which also should be dried in the oven, and used while hot. When finely
pounded, bottle securely, and there will be a perfect sample of Cayenne pepper without any
poisonous colouring. One hundred Chilis will make about two ounces of pepper, which will be
sufficient in most houses for one year's supply. The large ornamental Capsicums may be put
on strings, and hung up in a dry store-room, for use as required, to flavour soups, make Chili
vinegar, Cayenne essence, &c. The last-named condiment is prepared by steeping Capsicums in
pure spirits of wine. A few drops of the essence may be used in any soup, or indeed wherever
the flavour of Cayenne pepper is required.

==CARDOON==

==Cynara Cardunculus==

This plant is nearly related to the Globe Artichoke, and it makes a stately appearance when
allowed to flower. Although the Cardoon is not widely cultivated in this country, it is found
in some of our best gardens, and is undoubtedly a wholesome esculent from which a skilful cook
will present an excellent dish. The stalks of the inner leaves are stewed, and are also used
in soups, as well as for salads, during autumn and winter. The flowers, after being dried,
possess the property of coagulating milk, for which purpose they are used in France.

In a retentive soil Cardoons should be grown on the flat, but the plant is a tolerably thirsty
subject, and must have sufficient water. Hence on very dry soils it may be necessary to put
it in trenches after the manner of Celery, and then it will obtain the full benefit of all
the water that may be administered. In any case the soil must be rich and well pulverised if
a satisfactory growth is to be obtained.

Towards the end of April rows are marked out three or four feet apart, and groups of seed sown
at intervals of eighteen inches in the rows. The plants are thinned to one at each station,
and in due time secured to stakes. Full growth is attained in August, when blanching is commenced
by gathering the leaves together, wrapping them round with bands of hay, and earthing up. It
requires from eight to ten weeks to accomplish the object fully. The French method is quicker.
Seed is sown in pots under glass, and in May the plants are put out three feet apart. When
fully grown the Cardoons are firmly secured to stakes by three small straw bands. A covering
of straw, three inches thick, is thatched round every plant from bottom to top, and each top
is tied and turned over like a nightcap. A little soil is then drawn to the foot, but earthing
up is needless. In about a month blanching is completed.

==CARROT==

==Daucus Carota==

The Carrot is a somewhat fastidious root, for although it is grown in every garden, it is not
everywhere produced in the best style possible. The handsome long roots that are seen in the
leading markets are the growth of deep sandy soils well tilled. On heavy lumpy land long clean
roots cannot be secured by any kind of tillage. But for these unsuitable soils there are Sutton's
Early Gem, the Champion Horn, and Intermediate, which require no great depth of earth; while
for deep loams the New Red Intermediate answers admirably.

==Forcing.==--Carrots are forced in frames on very gentle hot-beds. They cannot be well grown
in houses, and they must be grown slowly to be palatable. It is usual to begin in November,
and to sow down a bed every three or four weeks until February. A lasting hot-bed is of the
first importance, and it is therefore necessary to have a good supply of stable manure and
leaves. The material should be thoroughly mixed and allowed to ferment for a few days. Then
turn the heap again, and a few days later the bed may be made up. In order to conserve the
heat the material will need to be three to four feet deep, and if a box frame is used the bed
should be at least two feet wider than the frame. Build up the material in even, well-consolidated
layers, to prevent unequal and undue sinking, and make the corners of the bed perfectly sound.
Put on the bed about one foot depth of fine, rich soil; if there is any difficulty about this,
eight inches must suffice, but twelve is to be preferred. As the season advances less fermenting
material will be needed, and a simple but effective hot-bed may be made by digging out a hole
of the required size and filling it with the manure. The latter will in due time sink, when
the soil may be added and the frame placed in position. The bed should always be near the glass,
and a great point is gained if the crop can be carried through without once giving water, for
watering tends to damage the shape of the roots. No seed should be sown until the temperature
has declined to 80°. Sow broadcast, cover with siftings just deep enough to hide the seed,
and close the frame. If after an interval the heat rises above 70°, give air to keep it down
to that figure or to 65°. It will probably decline to 60° by the time the plant appears, but
if the bed is a good one it will stand at that figure long enough to make the crop. Thin betimes
to two or three inches, give air at every opportunity, let the plant have all the light possible,
and cover up when hard weather is expected. Should the heat go down too soon, linings must
be used to finish the crop. Radishes and other small things can be grown on the same bed. In
cold frames seed may be sown in February.

==Warm Borders.==--In March the first sowings on warm borders in the open garden may be made.
These may need the shelter of mats or old lights until the plant has made a good start, but
it is not often the plant suffers in any serious degree from spring frosts, as the seed will
not germinate until the soil acquires a safe temperature. All the early crops of Carrot can
be grown on a prepared soil, or a light sandy loam, free from recent manure. The drills may
be spaced from six to nine inches apart.

==For the main crops== double digging should be practised, and if the staple is poor a dressing
of half-rotten dung may be put in with the bottom spit. But a general manuring as for a surface-rooting
crop is not to be thought of, the sure effect being to cause the roots to fork and fang most
injuriously. It is sound practice to select for Carrots a deep soil that was heavily manured
the year before, and to prepare this by double digging without manure in the autumn or winter,
so as to have the ground well pulverised by the time the seed is sown. Then dig it over one
spit deep, break the lumps, and make seed-beds four feet wide. Sow in April and onwards in
drills, mixing the seed with dry earth, the distance between rows to be eight to twelve inches
according to the sort; cover the seed with a sprinkling of fine earth and finish the bed neatly.
As soon as possible thin the crop, but not to the full distance in the first instance. The
final spacing for main crops may be from six to nine inches, determined by the variety. By
a little management it will be an easy matter during showery weather to draw delicate young
Carrots for the final thinning, and these will admirably succeed the latest of the sowings
in frames and warm borders.

==Late Crops.==--Sowings of early varieties made in July will give delicate little roots during
the autumn and winter. The rows may be placed nine inches apart, and it is essential to thin
the plants early to about three inches apart in the rows. In the event of very severe weather
protect with dry litter. For providing young Carrots throughout the winter it is also an excellent
plan to broadcast seed thinly. When grown in this way the plants afford each other protection,
and the roots may be drawn immediately they are large enough.

In July the culture of the smaller sorts may also be undertaken in frames, but hot-beds may
be dispensed with, and lights will not be wanted until there is a crop needing protection,
when the lights may be put on, or the frames may be covered with shutters or mats.

==Storing.==--Before autumn frosts set in the main crop should be lifted and stored in dry
earth or sand, the tops being removed and the earth rubbed off, but without any attempt to
clean them thoroughly until they are wanted for use.

==Carrots for Exhibition.==--It will be found well worth while to give a little extra attention
to the preparation of the ground when growing Carrots for exhibition. As in the case of Beet
and Parsnip, holes should be bored to the requisite depth and about one foot apart in the rows.
Where the soil is at all unfavourable to the growth of clean symmetrical roots the adoption
of this practice will be essential to success. Any light soil of good quality will be suitable
for filling the holes. Well firm the material in and sow about half a dozen seeds at a station,
eventually thinning out to one plant at each. The tendency of Carrots to become green at the
tops in the later stages of growth, thus spoiling them for show work, may be prevented by lightly
covering the protruding portion of the root with sifted fine earth.

==Destructive Enemies.==--The Carrot maggot and the wire-worm are destructive enemies of this
crop. In a later chapter on 'The Pests of Garden Plants,' both these foes are referred to.
Here it is only necessary to say that sound judgment as to the choice of ground, deep digging,
and the preparation of the beds in good time, are the preventives of these as of many other
garden plagues. It is often observed that main crops sown early in April suffer more than those
sown late, and the lesson is plain. It has also been noticed that where the crops have suffered
most severely the land was made ready in haste, and the wild birds had no time to purge it
of the insects which they daily seek for food.

==CAULIFLOWER==

==Brassica oleracea botrytis cauliflora==

This fine vegetable is managed in much the same way as Broccoli, and it requires similar conditions.
But it is less hardy in constitution, more elegant in appearance, more delicate on the table,
and needs greater care in cultivation to insure satisfactory results. As regards soil, the
Cauliflower thrives best on very rich ground of medium texture. It will also do well on light
land, if heavily manured, and quick growth is promoted by abundant watering. In Holland, Cauliflowers
are grown in sand with water at the depth of a foot only below the surface, and the ground
is prepared by liberal dressings of cow-manure, which, with the moisture rising from below,
promotes a quick growth and a fine quality. In any case, good cultivation is necessary or the
crop will be worthless; and whatever may be the nature of the soil, it must be well broken
up and liberally manured.

In gardens where Cauliflower are in great demand, an unbroken supply of heads from May to November
may be obtained by selecting suitable varieties and with careful management of the crop. But
in arranging for a succession it should be borne in mind that some varieties are specially
adapted for producing heads in spring and summer, while others are only suitable for use in
late summer and autumn.

==For Spring and Early Summer use.==--To have Cauliflower in perfection in spring and early
summer, seed should be sown in autumn. The exact time is a question of climate. In the northern
counties the middle of August is none too early, but for the south seed may be got in during
August and September, according to local conditions. The most satisfactory course is to sow
in boxes, placed in a cool greenhouse or a cold frame, or even in a sheltered spot out of doors.
For these sowings it is desirable to use poor soil of a calcareous nature, as at this period
of the year the seedlings are liable to damp off in rich earth. From the commencement every
endeavour must be made to keep the growth sturdy and to avoid a check of any kind. When the
plants have made some progress, prick them off three inches apart each way into frames for
the winter. No elaborate appliances are necessary. A suitable frame may be easily constructed
by erecting wooden sides around a prepared bed of soil, over which lights, window frames, or
even a canvas covering may be placed. Brick pits, or frames made with turf walls, will also
answer well. The soil should not be rich, or undesirable fleshy growth will result, especially
in a mild winter. It is important to ventilate freely at all times, except during severe weather
when the structures should have the protection of mats or straw, and excessive moisture must
be guarded against. As soon as conditions are favourable in February or March, transfer the
plants to open quarters on the best land at command, and give them every possible care. For
these early-maturing varieties a space of eighteen inches apart each way will generally suffice.
With liberal treatment, vigorous healthy growth should be made and heads of the finest quality
be ready for table from May onwards.

As we have already said, the best results with early Cauliflower are obtained from an autumn
sowing, but there are many growers who prefer to sow in January or February. At this season
the seed should be started in pans or boxes placed in a house just sufficiently heated to exclude
frost. Prick out the plants early, in a frame or on a protected border made up with light rich
soil, and when strong enough plant out on good ground. Spring sowings put out on poor land,
or in dry seasons, are sometimes disappointing, because the heads are too small to please the
majority of growers. Where, however, the soil is rich and the district suitable there is this
advantage in quick cultivation, that while time is shortened and the worry of wintering is
avoided, the crop is safer against buttoning and bolting, which will occasionally occur if
the plants become too forward under glass and receive a check when planted out.

In well-prepared sheltered ground seed may also be sown in March and April, from which the
plants should be pricked out once before being transferred to permanent positions. Occasional
hoeing between the plants and heavy watering in dry weather will materially tend to their well-doing,
the object being to maintain growth from the first without a check. If the plants turn in during
very hot weather, snap one of the inner leaves without breaking it off, and bend it over to
protect the head.

==For use in Late Summer and Autumn.==--Seed may be sown in April or very early in May, and
where only one sowing is made the first week of April should be selected. A fine seed-bed in
a sheltered spot is desirable, and as soon as the seedlings are large enough they should be
pricked out, three inches or so apart. Shift to final quarters while in a smallish state. If
the plants are allowed to become somewhat large in the seed-bed they are liable to 'button,'
which means that small, worthless heads will be produced as the result of an untimely check.
The distances between the plants may vary from one and a half to two feet or more, and between
the rows from two to two and a half feet, according to the size of the variety. If put out
on good ground, the crop will almost take care of itself, but should the plants need water
it must be copiously given.

==Cutting and Preserving.==--The management of the crop has been treated so far as to growth,
but we must now say a word about its appropriation. The two points for practical consideration
are, how to economise a glut, and how to avoid destruction by frost. Cauliflowers should be
cut at daybreak, or as soon after as possible, and be taken from the ground with the dew upon
them. If cut after the dew has evaporated, the heads will be inferior by several degrees as
compared with those cut at the dawn of the day. When the heads appear at too rapid a rate for
immediate consumption, draw the plants, allowing the earth to remain attached to the roots,
and suspend them head downwards in a cool, dark, dry place, and every evening give them a light
shower of water from a syringe. The deterioration will be but trifling, and the gain may be
considerable, but if left to battle with a burning sun the Cauliflowers will certainly be the
worse for it. After being kept in this way for a week, they will still be good, although, like
other preserved vegetables, they will not be so good as those freshly cut and in their prime.
It often happens that frost occurs before the crop is finished. A similar plan of preserving
those that are turning in may be adopted, but it is better to bury them in sand in a shed or
under a wall, and, if kept dry, they may remain sound for a month or more.

==Cauliflower for Exhibition.==--On the exhibition stage few vegetables win greater admiration
than well-grown heads of Cauliflower. Indeed, Cauliflower and Broccoli, in their respective
seasons, are indispensable items in the composition of any first-class collection. By closely
following the cultural directions contained in the foregoing pages no difficulty should be
experienced in obtaining heads of the finest texture and spotless purity during many months
of the year. The degree of success achieved is generally in proportion to the amount of attention
devoted to minor details. Select the most robust plants and treat them generously. As soon
as the heads are formed, examine them frequently to prevent disfiguration by vermin. The best
period of the day for cutting has already been discussed. Do not allow the heads to stand a
day longer than is necessary, and if not wanted immediately the plants should be lifted and
preserved in the manner described in the preceding paragraph.

==CELERY==

==Apium graveolens==

Celery is everywhere esteemed, not only as a salad, but as a wholesome and delicious vegetable.
The crop requires the very best of cultivation, and care should be taken not to push the growth
too far, for the gigantic Celery occasionally seen at Shows has, generally speaking, the quality
of size only, being tough and tasteless. Nevertheless, the sorts that are held in high favour
by growers of prize Celery are good in themselves when grown to a moderate size; it is the
forcing system alone that deprives them of flavour. Yet another precaution may be needful to
prevent a mishap. In a hot summer, Celery will sometimes 'bolt' or run up to flower, in which
case it is worthless. This may be the fault of the cultivator more than of the seed or the
weather, for a check in many cases hastens the flowering of plants, and it is not unusual for
Celery to receive a check through mismanagement. If sown too early, it may be impossible to
plant out when of suitable size, and the consequent arrest of growth at a most important stage
may result in a disposition to flower the first year, instead of waiting for the second. It
should be understood, therefore, that early sowing necessitates early planting, and the cultivator
should see his way clearly from the commencement.

==Sowing and Transplanting.==--The 1st of March is early enough for a first sowing anywhere
of a small variety, and this will require a mild hot-bed, or a place in the propagating house.
Sow on rich fine soil in boxes, cover lightly, and place in a temperature of 60°. When forward
enough prick out the plants on a rich bed close to the glass, in a temperature of 60° to 65°,
keep liberally moist, and give air, at first with great caution, but increasing as the natural
temperature rises until the lights can be removed during the day. The plant may thus be hardened
for a first planting on a warm border in a bed consisting of one-half rotten hot-bed manure
and one-half of turfy loam. The bed need not be deep, but it must be constantly moist, and
old lights should be at hand to give shelter when needful. If well grown in trenches, this
first crop will be of excellent quality, and will come in early.

For the general crop a second sowing may be made of the finest Red and White varieties, also
on a mild hot-bed, in the second week of March, and have treatment similar to the first, but
once pricking out into the open bed will be sufficient, the largest plants being put out first
at six inches, and to have shelter if needful; other plantings in the same way to follow until
the seed-bed is cleared. By good management this sowing may be made to serve the purpose of
three sowings, the chief point being to prick out the most forward plants on another mild bed
as soon as they are large enough to be lifted, and to make a succession from the same seed-bed
as the plants advance to a suitable size.

The third and last sowing may be made in the second week of April, in an open border, on rich
light soil, and should have the shelter of mats or old lights during cold weather. From this,
also, there should be two or three prickings out, the first to be transferred to a bit of hard
ground, covered with about three inches of rich mulchy stuff, in the warmest spot that can
be found, and the last to a similar bed on the coldest spot in the garden. In the final planting
the same order should be followed. The result will be a prolonged supply from one sowing, and
the first lot will come in early, though sown late, if the plants are kept growing without
a check, and receive thoroughly generous culture.

==The planting out== is an important matter, and each lot will require separate treatment,
subordinate to one general and very simple plan. Celery must have rich soil, abundant moisture,
and must be blanched to make it fit for table. There are various ways of accomplishing these
ends, although they differ but slightly, and common sense will guide us in the matter. For
the earliest crops the ground must be laid out in trenches, with as much rich stable manure
dug in as can be afforded. To overdo it in this respect seems impossible, for Celery, like
Cauliflower, will grow freely in rotten manure alone, without any admixture of loam. The trenches
should be eighteen inches wide at bottom, ten inches deep, and four feet from centre to centre,
and should run north and south. The plants are to be carefully lifted with a trowel, and placed
six to nine inches apart in single or double rows, and should have water as planted, that there
may be no check. In a cold soil and a cold season the trenches may be less in depth by two
or three inches with advantage. If dry weather ensues, water must be given ungrudgingly, but
earthing up should not commence until the plant has made a full and profitable growth, for
the earthing pretty well stops the growth, and is but a finishing process, requiring from five
to seven weeks to bring the crop to perfection. The second lot can be put out in the same way,
and other plantings may follow at discretion; but as the season advances the trenches must
be less deep.

==Earthing up== is often performed in a rough way, as though the plant were made of wood instead
of the most delicate tissue. The first earthing should be done with a hand-fork, and quite
loosely, to allow the heart of the plant room to expand. The result should be a little ring
of light earth scarcely pressing the outside leaves, and leaving the whole plant as free as
it was before. A fortnight or so later the earthing must be carried a stage further by means
of the spade. Chop the earth over, and lay it in heaps on each side of the plant. Then gather
a plant together with both hands, liberate one hand, and with it bring the earth to the plant
half round the base, and, changing hands, pack up the earth on the other side. Be careful not
to press the soil very close; also avoid putting any crumbs into the heart of the plant; and
do not earth higher than the base of the leaves. As soon as may be necessary repeat this process,
carrying the earth a stage higher; and about a week from this finish the operation.

The top of the plant must now be closed, and the earth carefully packed so high that only the
very tops of the leaves are visible. Finish to a proper slope with the spade, but do not press
the plants unduly, the object being simply to obtain a final growth of the innermost leaves
in darkness, but otherwise free from restraint.

==The Bed System== answers particularly well for producing a large supply of Celery with the
least amount of labour. This method of cultivation is also especially suitable for raising
Celery intended to be served when boiled, or for soups. Celery beds are made four and a half
feet wide and ten inches deep, the soil which is taken out being laid up in a slope round the
outside of the bed, and the bank thus formed may be planted with any quick crop, such as Dwarf
Beans. The ground will need to be heavily manured in the same manner as for the trench system.
Space the plants six inches apart in single or double lines, as may be preferred, and allow
not less than twelve inches between the rows. Water must be given to each row as planted; afterwards
the surface to be several times chopped over with the hoe or a small fork, and watering repeated
until the plants have made a start. An easy means of blanching is by the use of stiff paper
collars as described below; another simple method is to place mats over the tops of the plants
when nearly full grown. The bed system is not only economical, but convenient for sheltering
in winter, and should have the attention of gardeners who are expected to supply abundance
of Celery throughout the winter and spring, for in such cases a large sample is not required,
but quality and continuance are of importance.

It is a great point to keep Celery unhurt by frost far on in the winter, and the advantage
of growing the late crops on dry light soil, and on the bed system, will be seen in the ease
with which the plants can be preserved. On heavy soil Celery soon suffers from frost, but not
so readily on a soil naturally light and dry. Moreover, the bed system allows of many methods
of protection, with whatever materials are at command. In heavy soil fine crops of Celery for
autumn use may be grown, but in consequence of the liability of the plant to suffer by winter
damp, it is advisable to plant late crops on the level, and earth up from the adjoining plots
in order to keep the roots dry in winter. Another step towards securing a late supply consists
in bending the tops on one side at the final earthing, which prevents the trickling of water
into the heart of the plant during heavy rain or snow.

==Celery for Exhibition.==--From the opening paragraph it will be gathered that to produce
extra fine specimens of Celery for exhibition very generous treatment of the plants is necessary.
Apart from the choice of varieties--and only the finest strains should be considered--four
points are of especial importance to the cultivator. The ground must be liberally enriched;
at no period should the plant receive a check or suffer for want of water; there must be the
closest inspection at frequent intervals to prevent disfiguration of the stalks or leaves by
slugs, snails, or the Celery fly; and finally the operation of blanching will need great care
and discretion. These points have already been dealt with at some length. But on the question
of blanching it may be well to add that in order to insure perfect specimens, free from blemish,
artificial means of some kind must be adopted in place of earthing up in the ordinary way.
The use of strips of good quality brown paper will prove both simple and effectual. These strips
need not exceed a width of five or six inches, fresh bands being added as growth develops.
Tie them securely with raffia or twine, making due allowance for expansion of the plant, and
when in position carefully draw the soil towards the base.

==The numerous enemies of Celery==, such as slugs, snails, the mole-cricket, and the maggot,
do not seriously interfere with the crop where good cultivation prevails, but the Celery fly
appears to be indifferent to good cultivation, and therefore must be dealt with directly. Dusting
the leaves occasionally with soot has been found to operate beneficially. It should be done
during the month of June on the mornings of days that promise to be sunny. If the soot is put
on carelessly it will do more harm than good; a very fine dusting will suffice to render the
plant distasteful to the fly. Syringing the leaves with water impregnated with tar has also
saved plants from attack. Where the eggs are lodged the leaves will soon appear blistered,
and the maggot within must be crushed by pinching the blister between the thumb and finger.
Leaves that are much blistered should be removed and burned, but to rob the plants of many
leaves will seriously reduce the vigour of growth.

==Celeriac==, or ==Turnip-rooted Celery==, is much prized on the Continent as a cooked vegetable,
and as a salad. In ordinary Celery the stem forms a mere basis to the leaves, but in Celeriac
it is developed into a knob weighing from one to five pounds, and the root is more easily preserved
than Celery. When cooked in the same manner as Sea Kale, Celery is well known as a delicacy
at English tables, and the cooked Celeriac ranks in importance with it, though it affords quite
a different dish. The stem or axis of the plant is used, and not the stalks. To grow fine Celeriac
a long season is requisite; and therefore it is advisable to sow the seed in a gentle heat
early in March, and afterwards prick out and treat as Celery; but after the first stage the
treatment is altogether different. For the plantation a light and rich soil is required, and
where the staple is heavy, a small bed can easily be prepared by spreading six inches depth
of any sandy soil over the surface. The plants must be put out on the level a foot and a half
apart each way, and be planted as shallow as possible. Before planting, trim carefully to remove
lateral shoots that might divide the stems, and after planting water freely. The cultivation
will consist in keeping the crop clean, and frequently drawing the soil away from the plants,
for the more they stand out of the ground the better, provided they are not distressed. They
must never stand still for want of water, or the roots will not attain to a proper size. The
lateral shoots and fibres must be removed to keep the roots intact, but not to such an extent
as to arrest progress. When a good growth has been made, and the season is declining, cover
the bulbs or stems with a thin coat of fine soil, and in the first week of October lift a portion
of the crop and store it in sand, all the leaves being first removed, except those in the centre,
which must remain, or the roots may waste their energies in producing another set. The portion
of the crop left in the ground will need protection from frost, and this can be accomplished
by earthing them over with soil taken from between the rows.

Celeriac is cooked in the same manner as Beet, and requires about the same length of time.
The stems, bulbs, or roots (for the knobs, which are true stems, are known by various names)
are trimmed, washed, and put into boiling water without salt or any flavouring, and kept boiling
until quite tender; they may then be pared, sliced, and served with white sauce, or left uncut
to be sliced up for salads when cold.

==CHICORY==

==Cichorium Intybus==

A valuable addition to the supply of winter and spring roots. When stewed and served with melted
butter, Chicory bears a slight resemblance to Sea Kale. More frequently, however, it is eaten
in the same manner as Celery, with cheese, and it also makes an excellent and most wholesome
salad. All the garden varieties have been obtained from the wild plant, and some of the stocks
show a decided tendency to revert to the wild condition. It is therefore important to sow a
carefully selected strain, or the roots may be worthless for producing heads.

Seed should be sown in May or June, in rows one foot apart, and the plants thinned out to about
nine inches in the rows. The soil must be deep and rich, but free from recent manure, except
at a depth of twelve inches, when the roots will attain the size of a good Parsnip.

In autumn the roots must be lifted uninjured with the aid of a fork, and only a few at a time,
as required. After cutting off the tops just above the crown, they can at once be started into
growth, and it is essential that this be made in absolute darkness. French growers plant in
a warm bed of the temperature suited to Mushrooms, but this treatment ruins the flavour, and
has the effect of making the fibre of the leaves woolly. It is far simpler and better to put
the roots into a cellar or shed in which a temperature above the freezing point may be relied
on, and from which every ray of light can be excluded. They can be closely packed in deep boxes,
with light soil or leaf-mould between. If the soil be fairly moist, watering will not be necessary
for a month, and had better not be resorted to until the plants show signs of flagging. Instead
of boxes, a couple of long and very wide boards, stood on edge and supported from the outside,
make a convenient and effective trough. The packing of the roots with soil can be commenced
at one end, and be gradually extended through the entire length, until the part first used
is ready for a fresh start. Breaking the leaves is better than cutting, and gathering may begin
about three weeks after the roots are stored. From well-grown specimens, heads may be obtained
equal to a compact Cos Lettuce, and by a little management it is easy to maintain a supply
from October until the end of May. The quantity of salading to be obtained from a few roots
is really astonishing.

==CORN SALAD==

==Valerianella olitoria==

Corn Salad, or Lamb's Lettuce, so often seen on Continental tables, is comparatively unknown
in this country. The reason for this is, perhaps, to be found in the fact that, as a raw vegetable,
it is not particularly palatable, although when dressed as a salad with oil and the usual condiments
it is altogether delicious, and forms a most refreshing episode in the routine of a good dinner.
Corn Salad is a plant of quick growth, and is valued for its early appearance in spring, when
elegant salads are much in request. It may be mixed with other vegetables for the purpose,
or served alone with a little suitable preparation.

The most important sowings are made in August and September. Seed may, however, be sown at
any time from February to October, but only those who are accustomed to the plant should trouble
to secure summer crops; when Lettuces are plentiful Corn Salad is seldom required. Any good
soil will grow it, but the situation should be dry and open. Sow in drills six inches apart,
and thin to six inches in the rows. The crop is taken in the same way as Spinach, either by
the removal of separate leaves or cutting over in tufts.

==COUVE TRONCHUDA==

==Brassica oleracea costata==

Couve Tronchuda, or Portugal Cabbage, is a fine vegetable that should be grown in every garden,
including those in which Cabbages generally are not regarded as of much importance. The plant
is of noble growth, and in rich ground requires abundant room for the spread of its great leaves,
the midribs of which are thick, white, tender, and when cooked in the same manner as Sea Kale
quite superb in quality. When a fair crop of these midribs has been taken there remains the
top Cabbage, which is excellent.

Two or three sowings may be made in February, March, and April, and the early ones must be
in heat. Transfer to rich soil as early as possible, giving the plants ample room, from two
to three feet each way, and aid with plentiful supplies of water in dry weather.

==CRESS==

==Lepidium sativum==

Cress is best grown in small lots from frequent sowings, and the sorts should be kept separate,
and, if possible, on the same border. Fresh fine soil is requisite, and there is no occasion
for manuring, in fact it is objectionable, but a change of soil must be made occasionally to
insure a good growth. The seed is usually sown too thick, yet thin sowing is not to be recommended.
It is important to cut Cress when it is just ready--tender, green, short, and plump. This it
will never be if sown too thick, or allowed to stand too long. Immediately the plant grows
beyond salad size it becomes worthless, and should be dug in. From small sowings at frequent
intervals under glass a constant supply of Cress may be kept up through the cold months of
the year, for which purpose shallow boxes or pans will be found most convenient. Cress generally
requires rather more time than Mustard.

==American== or ==Land Cress== (=Barbarea præcox=) is of excellent quality when grown on a
good border, and two or three sowings should be made in the spring and autumn in shady spots.
If the site is not naturally moist, water must be copiously given.

==Water Cress== (=Nasturtium officinale=) is so highly prized that many who are out of the
reach of ordinary sources of supply would gladly cultivate it were there a reasonable prospect
of success. Assertions have been made that it can be grown in any garden without water, but
we have never yet seen a sample fit to eat which has been grown without assistance from the
water can. A running stream is not necessary. Make a trench in a shady spot, and well enrich
the soil at the bottom of it. In this sow the seed in March, and when the plants are established
keep the soil well moistened. The more freely this is done the better will be the result. Other
sowings may be made in April, August, and September. We have seen Water Cress successfully
cultivated in pots and pans immersed in saucers of water placed in shady positions.

==CUCUMBER==

==Cucumis sativus==

The Cucumber is everywhere valued. Its exceeding usefulness explains its popularity, and happily
the plant is of an accommodating character. In large establishments, Cucumbers are grown at
all seasons of the year; in medium-sized gardens, summer Cucumbers are generally deemed sufficient,
and there is no difficulty in growing an abundant and continuous supply of the finest quality.
The winter cultivation demands suitable appliances and skilful management; but a very small
house, with an efficient heating apparatus, will suffice to produce a large and constant supply,
and therefore winter Cucumbers need not be regarded as beyond the range of practice of any
ordinary well-kept garden.

==Frame Cucumbers== are the most in demand, and the easiest to grow. The very first point for
the cultivator is to determine when to begin, for the rule is to begin too early, and to waste
time and opportunity in consequence. We will suppose the Cucumbers are to be grown in a two-light
frame, for which will be required four good cartloads of stable manure. This should be put
in a heap three weeks before the bed is made up, and the bed will have to last until the season
is sufficiently advanced to sustain the heat without any further fermentation. Considering
these points, it will be understood that it is a far safer proceeding to begin the first week
in April than the first week in March, and unless the way is clearly seen, the later date is
certainly preferable, for it reduces to a minimum the conflict with time in the matter of bottom
heat. Make up the heap; then, early in March, turn it twice, and at the end of the month prepare
the bed, firming the stuff with a fork as the work proceeds, but taking care not to tread on
the bed. Put on the lights and leave the affair for five or six days; then lay down a bed of
rich loamy soil of a somewhat light and turfy texture, about nine inches deep. It is now optional
to sow or plant as may be most convenient. Strong plants in pots, put out at once, will fruit
earlier than plants from seeds sown on the bed. But sowing on the bed is good practice for
all that, and if this plan is adopted a few more seeds must be sown than the number of plants
required, to provide a margin for enemies; any surplus plants will generally prove useful,
for Cucumber plants seldom go begging. If it is preferred to begin with plants, the question
of providing them must be considered in good time. The seed should be sown at least a month
in advance, and should be brought forward on a hot-bed or in a cool part of a stove. Many a
successful Cucumber grower has no better means of raising plants than by sowing the seeds in
a box or pan of light rich earth, kept in a sunny corner of a common greenhouse, with a slate
or tile laid over until the seeds start, and by a little careful management nice thrifty plants
are secured in the course of about four weeks. In some books on horticulture a great deal is
said as to the soil in which Cucumber seed should be sown. We advise the reader not to make
too much of that question. Any turfy loam, or even peat, will answer; but a rank soil is certainly
unfit. The object should be to obtain short, stout plants of a healthy green colour; not the
long-drawn, pallid things that are often to be seen on sale, and which by their evident weakness
seem destined to illustrate the problems of Cucumber disease.

Having made a beginning with strong plants on a good bed, the two matters of importance are
to regulate the temperature and the watering. In the first instance, it will be necessary to
shade the plants a little, but as they acquire strength they should have more light and more
air than are usually allowed to Cucumbers. A temperature averaging 60° by night and 80° by
day will be found safe and profitable, as promoting a healthy growth and lasting fruitfulness.
But the rule must be elastic. You may shut up at 90° without harm, and during sunshine the
glass may rise to 95° without injury, provided the plants have air and are not dry at the roots.
But it is of great moment that the night temperature should be kept near 60° and not go below
it. If the thermometer shows that the night temperature has been above the proper point owing
to the heat of the bed, wedge up the lights about half an inch in the evening, and as the season
advances increase this supply of night air, for it keeps the plants in health, provided there
is no chill accompanying it. As regards watering, the important point is to employ soft water
of the same temperature as the frame, and therefore a spare can, filled with water, must be
always kept in the frame ready for use, and when emptied should be filled again and left for
the next watering. Twice a day at least the plants and the sides of the frame should receive
a shower from the syringe. It is better to syringe three times than twice, but this must be
in some degree determined by the temperature. The greater the heat, the more freely should
air and water be supplied; on the other hand, if the heat runs down, give water with caution,
or disaster may follow. In case of emergency the plants will go through a bad time without
serious damage if kept almost dry, and then it will be prudent to give but little air. Sometimes
the heat of the bed runs out before there is sufficient sun heat to keep the plants growing,
but if they can be maintained in health for a week or so, hot weather may set in, and all will
come right. But to carry Cucumbers through at such a time demands particular care as to watering
and air-giving.

As regards stopping and training, we may as well say at once, that the less of both the better.
Free healthy natural growth will result in an abundant production of fruit, and stopping and
training will do very little to promote the end in view. But there is something to be done
to secure an even growth and the exposure of every leaf to light. When the young plant has
made three rough leaves, nip out the point to encourage the production of shoots from the base.
When the shoots have made four leaves, nip out the points to promote a further growth of side
shoots, and after this there must be no more stopping until there is a show of fruit. The growth
should be pegged out to cover the bed in the most regular manner possible, and wherever superfluous
shoots appear they must be removed. Any crowding will have to be paid for, because crowded
shoots are not fruitful. If a great show of fruit appears suddenly, remove a large portion
of it, as over-cropping makes a troublesome glut for a short time, and then there is an end
of the business; but by keeping the crop down to a reasonable limit, the plants will bear freely
to the end of the season. Every fruiting shoot should be stopped at two leaves beyond the fruit,
and as the crop progresses there must be occasional pruning out of old shoots to make room
for young ones. An error of management likely to occur with a beginner is allowing the bed
to become dry below while it is kept quite moist above by means of the syringe. Many cultivators
drive sticks into the bed here and there, and from time to time they draw these out and judge
by their appearance whether or not the bed needs a heavy watering. To be dry at the root is
deadly to the Cucumber plant, and to be in a swamp is not less deadly. It must have abundance
of moisture above and below, but stagnation of either air or water will bring disease, ending
in a waste of labour.

==The greenhouse cultivation== of the Cucumber for a summer crop only is the most profitable
and simple as well as the most interesting of all the methods practised. In many gardens the
houses that have been filled during the winter with Geraniums and other plants are very poorly
furnished during the summer, and present a most unsightly appearance. Now, it is a very easy
matter to render them at once profitable and beautiful, for when clothed with green vines bearing
handsome Cucumbers, such houses are attractive and pay their way amazingly well. To carry out
the routine properly, the house should be cleared at the end of April, the plants being removed
to pits and frames. If possible, make up the beds on slates laid close over the hot-water pipes,
and use a bushel or more of soil under each light to begin with. First lay on the slate a large
seed-pan, bottom upwards, and on that a few flat tiles, and then heap up a shallow cone of
nice light turfy loam. Start the fire and shut up, and raise the heat of the empty house to
80° or 90° for one whole day. The next day plant on each hillock a short stout Cucumber plant,
or sow three seeds. Proceed as advised for frame culture, keeping a temperature of 60° by night
and 80° by day, with a rise of 5° to 10° during sunshine. Ply the syringe freely, give air
carefully, and use the least amount of shading possible. It will very soon be found that by
judicious management in shutting up and air-giving, the firing may be dispensed with, and then
it remains only to syringe freely and train with care. The plants should not be stopped at
all, but be taken up direct to the roof and be trained out on a few wires or tarred string,
in the first instance right and left, and afterwards along the rafters to meet at the ridge,
and form a rich leafy arcade. The fruits will appear in quantity, and must be thinned to prevent
over-cropping. As the plants grow, earth must be added to the hillocks until there is a continuous
bed, on which a certain number of shoots may be trained where there is sufficient light for
them. It is best to begin as advised above, with the aid of fire heat to start the crop for
the sake of gaining time; but if this is not convenient begin without fire heat in the last
week of May, and the plants will produce fruit until the chill of autumn makes an end of them,
and the house is again required for the greenhouse plants.

==Winter Cucumbers== thrive best in lean-to houses with somewhat steep roofs, as such houses
are less liable to chill during cold windy weather, and they catch a maximum of the winter
sunshine. In a mild winter, Cucumbers may be grown in any kind of house that can be maintained
at a suitable temperature, and the markets are supplied from rough constructions that do duty
for many purposes. But in hard weather, the steep lean-to, with bed along the front, and tank
to give equable bottom heat, will prove the most serviceable, as it will neither allow snow
to lodge on the glass, nor suffer any serious decline of temperature during the prevalence
of sharp frost and keen winds. For late autumn supply any kind of house will suffice, but best
of all an airy span. A brick pit will answer every purpose from October to March with good
management, and fermenting materials will afford the needful heat. In such cases trenches should
be provided for occasional renewal of the bottom heat. But a roomy house and a service of hot
water justly stand in favour with experienced cultivators, as combining the necessary conditions
with convenience of management.

For winter culture, plants are raised from seeds and from cuttings. Seedling plants are the
most vigorous, but they require a little more time than cuttings to arrive at a fruiting state.
For pot culture cuttings are preferable, as only a moderate crop is expected, and quickness
of production is of great importance. It is usual to sow the first lot of seeds on the 1st
of September, and to sow again on the 1st of October and the 1st of November; after which it
is not advisable to sow again until the 1st of February for the spring crop. If the management
is good, the first sowing will be in fruit by the time the third batch of seed is sown, say,
by the first week of November, and thenceforward throughout the winter there should be no break
in the supply.

The management of Winter Cucumbers turns upon details chiefly, and will be found in the end
to depend rather upon care than skill. The general principles are the same as in growing Cucumbers
in frames, the task for the cultivator being to carry them out successfully. Begin by sowing
the seed singly in small pots in light turfy loam, or peat with which a fair proportion of
sharp sand has been mixed. These pots to be placed in a heat of 70° to 75°, and for plants
to last long the lower temperature is preferable. As regards the next stage, the plants may
be trained up rafters, or spread out on beds, the first being always the better plan where
it happens to be convenient. But the prudent cultivator will not be tied to rules; he will
cut his coat according to his cloth, and while he has a house of Cucumbers trained to the roof,
he will, perhaps, also have a pit filled with plants on beds. To stop severely is bad practice,
for vigorous growth is wanted; but a certain amount of stopping must be done to promote an
even growth, and to distribute the fruit fairly both in space and time. We have already admitted
that in some books on gardening too much has been said about soil. In many places a suitable
turfy loam, or a good fibrous peat, may be obtained, and the accidents that have befallen Cucumbers
have usually been the result of bad management in respect of heat, water, and air, rather than
the use of unsuitable soil. But it must not be supposed that we are careless about this matter.
Neither a pasty clay, a sour sticky loam, nor a poor sandy or chalky soil will produce fine
Cucumbers. On the other hand, rank manure and poor leaf-mould are both unfavourable materials.
There is nothing like mellow loam, which can be enriched and modified at discretion, without
going to extremes.

==Ridge Cucumbers== are grown in much the same way as recommended for Vegetable Marrows. They
may be put on hillocks or beds, and in either case a foundation of fermenting material is required
to insure a crop in the early part of the summer. For a late crop, the natural heat of the
soil will be sufficient should the summer prove to be fine, but in a cold season Ridge Cucumbers
are disappointing. Of the many methods of growing them, one of the best is to lay out the ground
in four-feet beds by taking out the soil to a depth of fifteen inches, and spreading about
that depth or more of half-rotted manure, to which may be added any leaves and other litter
that may be handy. Cover with a foot depth of good loam. About mid-April sow the seeds in three-inch
pots or in boxes and place in a cool greenhouse. After careful hardening, plant out about the
third week of May. If preferred, seeds may be sown on the bed early in May. Give the plants
the protection of a hand-light should the weather prove unfavourable, and some care will be
needed to keep them moving fairly until the season is so far advanced as to allow for the removal
of the lights. Put the plants at thirty inches apart down the middle of the bed, and when growing
freely, nip out the points =once only=. A crop of Lettuce may be taken from the beds while
the plants are advancing.

==DANDELION==

==Taraxacum officinale==

As a salad Dandelion has won general esteem for its wholesome medicinal qualities. Nature teaches
the way to grow this plant, for she sows the seed in early summer, and we find the finest plants
on dry ground, while there are none to be found in bogs and swamps. Any gravelly or chalky
soil will grow good Dandelion, one fair digging without manure being a sufficient preparation
for it. Sow in May or June, and thin to one foot apart every way, keeping the crop scrupulously
clean by flat hoeing. Any time in the winter the roots may be lifted and forced in the same
way as Sea Kale, or they may be covered with pots in spring to blanch where grown. In any case
the spring growth must be made in darkness, for when green the flavour is bitter. Invalids
who require this salutary salad may obtain early supplies by planting the roots in boxes in
a cellar, and covering with empty boxes. Only as much water should be given as will keep the
roots reasonably moist.

==EGG PLANT (AUBERGINE)==

==Solatium Melongena, S. esculentum==

In this country the Egg Plant is generally grown merely as an ornament, but it is a delicious
vegetable when sliced and fried in oil, the purple-and black-fruited kinds being especially
serviceable for the table. The common white, which is best known, is fairly good when cooked
young, though less rich in flavour than the purple. The cultivation recommended for Capsicum
will suit the Egg Plant, but little atmospheric moisture is needed or the seedlings may damp
off. They are not well adapted for planting out, although in a warm season they will fruit
freely under a sunny wall, and will grow in a gravel walk if helped at first with a little
good soil round the roots. If required in quantity for the table, the purple variety may be
grown in a frame from plants raised on a hot-bed. Generally speaking, a few plants in pots
are all that are required where the fruit is not valued as an esculent.

==ENDIVE==

==Cichorium Endivia==

As a result of the growing taste for wholesome salads Endive has considerably advanced in public
esteem. The flavour of well-blanched Endive suits most palates that have had experience of
salads, and of the salutary properties of the plant we have a hint in its close relation to
the Chicory.

The selection of sorts is a question of importance, because the handsome curled varieties that
make the best appearance on the table, and might be regarded as ornaments if they were not
edible, are the very finest for salads, being tender, with a fresh nutty flavour. The broad-leaved
sorts are not so well adapted for salads as for stews, and they take the place of Lettuces
when the latter are not available for soups and ragoûts. However, when an emergency occurs,
the curled varieties will be found suitable for cooking, and the broad-leaved for salading,
and therefore there need be no waste where one sort predominates.

==Soil==.--A difficulty common to Endive culture may be got over in the way advised for Celeriac.
The plant requires a light, dry, sandy soil; and a portion, at least, of the crop is expected
to stand through the winter. Thus on a heavy soil there is a prospect of failure in respect
of the late crop, but that is obviated by adopting a made bed--one of smallish dimensions being
sufficient to accommodate a large stock of plants. Select an open spot, make a foundation of
any hard rubbish that is at hand, and on this put one to two feet of sandy soil. This will
form a raised bed of a kind exactly suited to the plant, and will cost but little as compared
with its ultimate value. If regularly dressed with manure, and otherwise well managed, the
bed will supply Endive in winter and other salads in summer, or it may be cropped with Dwarf
Beans, which can be removed in August to make way for the usual planting of Endive. Where the
soil is naturally light and dry no such preparation is needed, but Endive does not come to
perfection without food, and therefore the soil should be rich and deeply dug.

==Sowing and Transplanting==.--The seed may be sown as early as March, in a moderate heat,
but the latter part of April is early enough for most purposes, and the main sowings are made
in June. Later sowings may follow in July and August. But the June sowing is the most important,
as by a little careful management it will supply a few early heads and many late ones. Sow
in shallow drills six inches apart, and when the plants are an inch high draw the most forward,
and prick them out on a bed of rich light soil in the same way as Celery, and with a little
nursing these will make a first plantation. The plants in the seed-bed should be thinned to
three inches, and must have water in dry weather. All the thinnings should be pricked out in
the first instance to make them strong for planting, but the last lot may go direct to the
beds to finish.

The final planting must be on rich, light, dry soil, and water given to encourage growth. The
distance for the curled varieties is a foot each way, and for the broad-leaved fifteen inches.
In taking the last lot from the seed-bed, a crop should be left untouched to mature at twelve
to fifteen inches apart. These plants will give a first and most excellent supply if carefully
blanched.

If more convenient, seed may be sown where the crop is intended to stand, the plants being
thinned to the distances already given.

==The blanching== is an important business, and is variously performed. The customary mode
is to tie the leaves together in the manner usual with Lettuce and mould them up. This method
answers perfectly, except in wet seasons, when, if the plants stand for some time, the outer
leaves begin to rot, and the decay proceeds inwards, to the deterioration or destruction of
the plant. A clean and effective process is to cover the heart of the plant with a flower-pot.
The hole is darkened with part of a tile or slate, on which should be laid a piece of turf
or a handful of mould. A plate or clean tile placed over the centre of the plant will also
blanch Endives satisfactorily in autumn. For winter supplies, the plants may be lifted as wanted
and placed in boxes or pots of soil, these being covered with other boxes or pots to exclude
light. A Mushroom-house, cellar, or under a greenhouse stage, will serve for storing the lifted
plants. The blanching must be carried on in such a way as to insure a succession without a
glut at any time, for when sufficiently blanched Endive should be used, or decay will soon set in.

==GARLIC==

==Allium sativura==

The mode of culture advised for Shallots will suit Garlic also, except that the latter should
be planted in February about two inches beneath the surface of the soil, and the bulbs may
be grown closer together, about eight or nine inches apart each way.

When large bulbs are required for exhibition or other purposes, the cloves--as the divisions
of each root are called--should be planted separately; but for general use moderate-sized bulbs,
planted whole, will produce a heavier crop.

==GOURD and PUMPKIN==

(==Cucurbita==)

Gourds and Pumpkins may be grown to perfection by precisely the same method recommended for
Ridge Cucumbers; but as the plants occupy more space, room must be left for them to extend
south wards beyond the limits of the ridge. It is well to put out strong plants from seeds
sown in pots in April or May, and protect them until established. If these are not obtainable,
the seed may be sown where the plants are intended to stand, and there will in time be plenty
of produce, but of course somewhat later in the season than if strong plants had been put out
in the first instance. Keep a sharp look-out for slugs, which will flock in from all quarters
to feast upon them, but will scarcely touch them after they have been planted a week or so.
Any rough fermenting material, such as grass mowings, may be used in making the hills, to give
them the aid of a warm bed for a brief space of time, and it is a great gain if they grow freely
from the first. Later on the natural heat will be enough for them.

The edible Gourds are useful in all their stages and ages; and if the cultivator has a fancy
to grow large, handsome fruits, he can make the business answer by hanging them up for use
in winter, when they may be employed in soups in place of Carrots, or in addition to the usual
vegetables, and may indeed be cooked in half a dozen different ways. There remains yet one
more purpose to which the plants may be applied: supposing you have a great plantation of edible
Gourds and Marrows, and would like a peculiarly elegant and delicious dish of Spinach, pinch
off a sufficiency of the tops of the advancing shoots, and cook them Spinach fashion. If properly
done, it is one of the finest vegetables ever eaten. As pinching off the tender tops of the
shoots lessens the fruitfulness of the vines, we only recommend this procedure where there
is a large plantation.

Gourds may be trained to trellises, fences, and walls. In all such cases, a good bed should
be prepared of any light, rich loam, and it will be none the less effective if made on a mound
of fermenting material.

==HERBS==

With certain exceptions, the growing of Sweet Herbs from seeds is altogether advantageous.
The plants come perfectly true, and are so vigorous that it is easier to raise them from seed
than to secure a succession from slips or cuttings. To meet a large and continuous demand in
the kitchen there must be a proportionate plantation in the border; but in gardens of medium
size we do not advocate the culture of Herbs on an extensive scale, unless there be a special
object in view. A moderate number of Herbs will meet the necessities of most families. Still
it is a fact that the tendency is always in the direction of increased variety, and gardeners
are called on to provide frequent changes of flavouring Herbs, some of which are quite as highly
prized in salads as they are for culinary purposes.

In the smallest gardens, Mint, Parsley, Sage, and both Common and Lemon Thyme, must find a
place. In gardens which have any pretension to supply the needs of a luxurious table there
should be added Basil, Chives, Pot and Sweet Marjoram, Summer and Winter Savory, Sorrel, Tarragon,
and others that may be in especial favour. Large gardens generally contain a plot, proportioned
to demands, of all the varieties which follow.

Several of the most popular Herbs, such as Chives, Mint, Tarragon, and Lemon Thyme, are not
grown from seed--at all events, those who venture on the pastime might employ their labour
to greater advantage. But others, such as Basil, Borage, Chervil, Fennel, Marjoram, Marigold,
Parsley, Savory, &c, are grown from seed, in some cases of necessity, and in others because
it is the quicker and easier way of securing a crop.

Angelica and Mint flourish in moist soil, but the majority of aromatic Herbs succeed on land
that is dry, poor, and somewhat sandy, rather than in the rich borders that usually prevail
in the Kitchen Garden. Happily they are not very particular, but sunshine they must have for
the secretion of their fragrant essences. A narrow border marked off in drills, and, if possible,
sloping to the south, will answer admirably. Thin the plants in good time, and the thinnings
of those wanted in quantity may, if necessary, be transplanted. The soil must be kept free
from weeds, and every variety be allowed sufficient space for full development.

==Angelica== (=A. Archangelica=).--A native biennial which is not easily raised from seed treated
in the ordinary way. Germination is always capricious, slow and irregular. It may be several
months before the plants begin to appear. The best results are obtained by placing the seed
in sand, kept moist for several weeks before sowing. The leaves and stalks are sometimes blanched
and eaten as Celery, and are also boiled with meat and fish. Occasionally the tender stems
and midribs are coated with candied sugar as a confection. Angelica was formerly supposed to
possess great medicinal virtues, but its reputation as a remedy for poison and as a preventive
of infectious diseases is not supported by the disciples of modern chemistry. The seeds are
still used for flavouring liqueurs.

==Balm== (=Melissa officinalis=).--A perennial herb, which can be propagated by cuttings or
grown as an annual from seed. An essential oil is distilled from the leaves, but they are chiefly
used, when dried, for making tea for invalids, especially those suffering from fever. The plant
has also been used for making Balm wine. Sow in May.

==Basil, Bush== (=Ocymum minimum=).--A dwarf-growing variety, used for the same purposes as
the Sweet Basil. Sow in April.

==Basil, Sweet== (=Ocymum Basilicum=).--A tender annual, originally obtained from India, and
one of the most popular of the flavouring Herbs. Seeds should be sown in February or March
in gentle heat. When large enough the seedlings must be pricked off into boxes until they are
ready for transferring to a rich border in June, or seed may be sown in the open ground during
April and May. A space of eight inches between the plants in the rows will suffice, but the
rows should be at least a foot apart. The flower-stems must be cut as they rise, and be tied
in bundles for winter use. This practice will prolong the life of the plant until late in the
season. Many gardeners lift plants in September, pot them, and so maintain a supply of fresh
green leaves until winter is far advanced.

==Borage== (=Borago officinalis=).--A native hardy plant, which thrives in poor, stony soil.
The flowers are used for flavouring purposes, especially for claret-cup. Borage is also a great
favourite with bee-masters. Sow in April or May in good loam, and thin to fifteen or eighteen
inches apart. The rows should be from eighteen to twenty-four inches asunder, for the plant
is tall, and strong in growth.

==Chervil, Curled== (=Anthriscus Cerefolium=).--Used for salads, garnishing, and culinary purposes.
To secure a regular supply of leaves small successional sowings are necessary from spring to
autumn, and frequent watering in dry weather will prevent the plants from being spoiled by
throwing up seed-stems. For winter use, sow in boxes kept in a warm temperature.

==Chives== (=Allium Schænoprasum=).--A mild substitute for the Onion in salads and soups. The
plant is a native of Britain, and will grow freely in any ordinary garden soil. Propagation
is effected by division of the roots either in spring or autumn. The clumps should be cut regularly
in succession whether wanted or not, with the object of maintaining a continuous growth of
young and tender shoots. At intervals of four years it will be necessary to lift, divide, and
replant the roots on fresh ground.

==Fennel== (=Fæniculum officinale=).--A hardy perennial which has been naturalised in some
parts of this country. It is grown in gardens to furnish a supply of its elegant feathery foliage
for garnishing and for use in fish sauces. Occasionally the stems are blanched and eaten in
the same way as Celery, and in the natural state they are boiled as a vegetable. The seeds
are also employed for flavouring. Sow in drills in April and May, and thin the plants to fifteen
inches apart.

==Finocchio, or Florence Fennel== (=Fæniculum dulce=, DC).--A sweet-tasting herb, very largely
grown in the south of Italy, where it is eaten both in the natural state and when boiled. Sow
in the open ground during spring or early summer, in rows about eighteen inches apart, and
thin or transplant to six or nine inches. When the base begins to swell, earth up the plants
in the same manner as Celery. If transplanted, pinch off the tips of the roots.

==Horehound== (=Marrubium vulgare=).--A well-known medicinal herb, from which an extract is
obtained for subduing irritating coughs. Sow in April or May, and thin the plants until they
stand fifteen inches apart.

==Hyssop== (=Hyssopus officinalis=).--The leaves and young shoots are used as a pot-herb, and
the leafy tops and flowers, when dried, are employed for medicinal purposes. Hyssop is also
occasionally used as an edging plant. A dry soil and warm situation suit it. Sow in April,
and thin the plants to a foot apart in the rows.

==Lavender== (=Lavandula=).--Universally known and valued for its perfume. Although the plant
is generally propagated from cuttings, it can easily be grown from seed sown in April or May.
The plants attain a height of one or two feet, and the stems should not be cut until the flowers
are expanded.

==Marigold, Pot== (=Calendula officinalis=).--Employed both in flower and vegetable gardens:
in the former as a bedding annual, and in the latter that the flowers may be dried and stored
for colouring and flavouring soups; also for distilling. In April or May sow the seed in drills
one foot apart, and thin the plants to the same distance in the rows.

==Marjoram, Pot== (=Origanum Onites=).--One of the most familiar Herbs in British gardens.
The aromatic leaves are used both green and when dried for flavouring. Strictly the plant is
a perennial, but it is readily grown as an annual. Sow in February or March in gentle heat,
and in the open ground a month later. The plants should be allowed a space often inches or
a foot each way.

==Marjoram, Sweet Knotted== (=Origanum Majorana=).--This plant is used for culinary purposes
in the same way as the Pot Marjoram, and it is also regarded as a tonic and stomachic. The
most satisfactory mode of cultivation is that of a half-hardy annual. Sow in March or April
and allow each plant a square foot of ground.

==Mint== (=Mentha viridis=).--Known also as Spearmint. It must be grown from divisions. Between
the delicacy of fresh young green leaves and those which have been dried with the utmost care
there is so wide a difference that the practice of forcing from November to May is fully justified.
This is easily accomplished by packing roots in a box and keeping them moist in a temperature
of 60°. Where this is impossible, stems must be cut, bunched, and hung in a cool store for
use during winter and spring. Mint grows vigorously in damp soil, and the bed should have occasional
attention, to prevent plants from extending beyond their proper boundary. To secure young and
luxuriant growth a fresh plantation should be made annually in February or March. If allowed
to occupy the same plot of land year after year the leaves become small and the stems wiry.

==Parsley== (=Carum Petroselinum=) will teach those who have eyes exactly how it should be
grown. There will appear here and there in a garden stray or rogue Parsley plants. No matter
how regularly the hoeing and weeding may be done, a stray Parsley plant will occasionally appear
alone, perhaps in the midst of Lettuces, or Cauliflowers, or Onions. When these rogues escape
destruction they become superb plants, and the gardener sometimes leaves them to enjoy the
conditions they have selected, and in which they evidently prosper. The lesson for the cultivator
is, that Parsley should have plenty of room from the very first; and this lesson, we feel bound
to say, cannot be too often enforced upon young gardeners, for they are apt to sow Parsley
far more thickly than is wise, and to be injuriously slow and timid in thinning the crop when
the plants are crowding one another.

Parsley, like many other good things, will grow almost anywhere and anyhow, but to make a handsome
crop a deep, rich, moist soil is required. It attains to fine quality on a well-tilled clay,
but the kindly loam that suits almost every vegetable is adapted to produce perfect Parsley,
and every good garden should show a handsome sample, for beauty is the first required qualification.
To keep the house fairly well supplied sowings should be made in February, May, and July. The
first of these will be in gentle heat. When large enough prick out the plants into boxes, or
on to a mild hot-bed, and transfer to the open ground at the end of April, allowing each plant
a space of one foot each way. In the open, it is best to sow in lines one foot apart, and thin
out first to three inches, and finally to six inches, the strongest of the seedlings being
put out one foot apart. By following this plan sufficient supplies for a small household may
be obtained from one annual sowing made in April. It should not be overlooked that Parsley
is indispensable to exhibitors of vegetables, especially as a groundwork for collections, and
due allowance for such calls must be made in fixing the number and extent of the sowings. When
the plant pushes for seed it becomes useless, and had best be got rid of; but by planting at
various times in different places a sufficiency may be expected to go through a second season
without bolting, after which it will be necessary to root them out and consign them to the
rubbish-heap. Parsley is often grown as an edging, but it is only in large gardens that this
can be done advantageously, and then a very handsome edging is secured. In small gardens it
is best to sow on a bed in lines one foot apart, and thin out first to three inches, and finally
to six inches, the strongest of the thinnings being planted a foot apart, to last over as proposed
above. When Parsley has stood some time it becomes coarse, but the young growth may be renewed
by cutting over; this operation being also useful to defer the flowering, which is surely hastened
by leaving the plants alone. For the winter supply a late plantation made in a sheltered spot
will usually suffice, for the plant is very hardy; but it may be expedient sometimes to put
old frames over a piece worth keeping, or to protect during hard weather with dry litter. A
few plants lifted into five-inch pots and placed in a cool house will often tide over a difficult
period. In gathering, care should be taken to pick separately the young leaves that are nearly
full grown, and to take only one or two from each plant. It costs no more time to fill a basket
by taking a leaf or two here and there from a whole row than to strip two or three plants,
and the difference in the end will be considerable as regards the total produce and quality
of the crop.

==Pennyroyal== (=Mentha Pulegium=) is a native perennial which must be propagated by divisions,
and this can be done either in spring or autumn. The rows may be twelve or fifteen inches apart,
but in the rows the plants do well at a distance of eight inches. The taste for Pennyroyal
is by no means universal, but some persons like the tender tops in culinary preparations. The
belief in its supposed medicinal virtues is slowly dying.

==Purslane== (=Portulaca oleracea=).--This annual plant thrives best in a sunny position. Seed
should be sown from mid-April onwards to insure a succession of young leaves and shoots which
may be cooked as a vegetable or eaten raw as a salad. Space the rows nine inches apart and
thin the plants to a distance of six inches.

==Rampion== (=Campanula Rapunculus=).--Both leaves and roots are used in winter salads; the
roots are also boiled. If the seed be sown earlier than the end of May the plants are liable
to bolt. Choose a shady situation where the soil is rich and light, and do not stint water.
The rows need not exceed six inches apart, and four inches in the rows will be a sufficient
space between plants.

==Rosemary== (=Rosmarinus officinalis=).--A hardy evergreen shrub easily grown from seed, the
leaves of which are used for making Rosemary tea for relieving headache. An essential oil is
also obtained by distillation. A dry, warm, sunny border suits the plant. Sow in April and May.

==Rue== (=Ruta graveolens=).--A hardy evergreen shrub, chiefly cultivated for its medicinal
qualities. The leaves are acrid, and emit a pungent odour when handled. The plant is shrubby,
and as it attains a height of two or three feet it occupies a considerable space. Sow in April.

==Sage== (=Salvia officinalis=).--Although Sage can be raised from seed with a minimum of trouble,
yet this is one of the few instances where it is an advantage to propagate plants from a good
stock. The difference will be obvious to any gardener who will grow seedlings by the side of
propagated plants. Still, seedlings are often raised, and as annuals the plants are quite satisfactory.
Sow under glass in February and March, and in open ground during April and May. Prick off the
seedlings into a nursery bed before transferring to final positions, in which each plant should
be allowed a space of fifteen inches.

==Savory, Summer== (=Satureia hortensis=).--An aromatic seasoning and flavouring herb, which
must be raised annually from seed. Sow early in April in drills one foot apart, and thin the
plants to six or eight inches in the rows. Cut the stems when in full flower, and tie in bunches
for winter use.

==Savory, Winter== (=Satureia montana=).--A hardy dwarf evergreen which can be propagated by
cuttings; but it is more economically grown from seed sown at the same time, and treated in
the same manner, as Summer Savory.

==Sorrel== (=Rumex scutalus=).--The large-leaved or French Sorrel is not only served as a separate
dish, but is mingled with Spinach, and is also used as an ingredient in soups, sauces, and
salads. Leaves of the finest quality are obtainable from plants a year old, and when the crop
has been gathered the ground may with advantage be utilised for some other purpose. Light soil
in fairly good heart suits the plant. The seed should be sown in March or early April, in shallow
drills six or eight inches apart, and the seedlings must be thinned early, leaving three or
four inches between them in the rows. To keep the bed free from weeds is the only attention
necessary, unless an occasional watering becomes imperative. In September the entire crop may
be transferred to fresh ground, allowing eighteen inches between the plants, or part may be
drawn and the remainder left at that distance. In the following spring the flower-stems will
begin to rise, and if these are allowed to develop they reduce the size of the leaves and seriously
impair their quality; hence the heads should be pinched out as fast as they are presented.

==Tarragon== (=Artemisia Dracunculus=).--This aromatic herb is used for a variety of purposes,
but is most commonly employed for imparting its powerful flavour to vinegar. The plant is a
perennial, and must be propagated by divisions in March or April, or by cuttings placed in
gentle heat in spring. Later in the year they will succeed under a hand-glass in the open.
Green leaves are preferable to those which have been dried, and by a little management a succession
of plants is easily arranged. For winter use roots may be lifted in autumn and placed in heat.
Those who have no facilities for maintaining a supply of green leaves rely on foliage cut in
autumn and dried.

==Thyme, Common== (=Thymus vulgaris=).--An aromatic herb, well known in every garden, and in
constant demand for the house. Seedlings are easily raised from a sowing in April, or the plant
can be grown from division of the roots in spring. Thyme makes a very effective edging, and
is frequently employed for this purpose on dry, well-kept borders.

==Thyme, Lemon== (=Thymus Serpyllum vulgaris=).--This plant cannot be grown from seed; only
by division of the roots in March or April. It is an aromatic herb, generally regarded as indispensable
in a well-ordered garden.

==Wormwood== (=Artemisia Absinthium=).--An intensely bitter herb, used for medicinal purposes.
The plant is a hardy perennial, and is usually propagated in spring by taking cuttings or dividing
the roots.

==HORSE-RADISH==

==Cochlearia Armoracia==

This vegetable is highly prized as a condiment to roast beef, but as a rule it is badly grown.
The common practice is to consign it to some neglected corner of the garden, where it struggles
for existence, and produces sticks which are almost worthless for the table. In the same space
a plentiful supply of large handsome sticks may be grown with as little trouble as Carrots
or Parsnips. Choose for the crop a piece of good open ground, and in preparing it place a heavy
dressing of rotten manure quite at the bottom of each trench. Early in the year select young
straight roots from eight to twelve inches long, each having a single crown, and plant them
one foot apart each way. By the following autumn these will become large, succulent sticks,
which will put to shame the ugly striplings grown under starving conditions. The roots may
be dug as required; but we do not advocate that method. It is better practice to clear the
whole bed at once, and store the produce in sand for use when wanted. This plan should be repeated
each year, and a fresh piece of land ought always to be found for the crop.

==KALE==--=see=== BORECOLE==, =page 27=

==KOHL RABI (KNOL KOHL)==

==Brassica oleracea Caulo-rapa==

Kohl Rabi, or Knol Kohl, is comparatively little grown in this country, because we can almost
always command tender and tasty Turnips. On the Continent it is otherwise. There Kohl Rabi
may be seen in every market, and on many a good table, where it proves a most acceptable vegetable.
For all ordinary purposes the green variety is better than the purple. A small crop of this
root should be annually grown in every garden. In case of failure with Turnips, Kohl Rabi will
take their place to tide over an emergency. When. served it has the flavour of a Turnip with
a somewhat nutty tendency, and may be prepared for table in the same manner.

Kohl Rabi is cultivated in much the same way as Turnips. Seed may be sown at any time from
March to August in rows one and a half to two feet apart. As soon as possible thin the seedlings
to three inches apart in the rows, and, as the leaves develop, to six inches apart. By drawing
every other plant some small roots may be obtained early, and the remainder will be left to
mature at twelve inches in the rows. The seedlings may be transplanted, if desired. Keep the
ground clean and the surface open, but care should be taken not to damage the leaves, or in
the least degree to earth up the roots. Any animal that can eat a Turnip will prefer a Kohl
Rabi, and when substituted for the Turnip in feeding cows, it does not affect the flavour of
the milk. The plant is hardy, and as a rule may stand, to be drawn as wanted, until the spring
is far advanced, when the remnant should be cleared off for the benefit of the animals on the
home farm, or be dug in as manure.

==LEEK==

==Allium Porrum==

The leek is not so fully appreciated in the southern parts of England as it is in the North,
and in Scotland and Wales. It is a fine vegetable where it is well understood, and when stewed
in gravy there is nothing of its class that can surpass it in flavour and wholesomeness. One
reason of its fame in Scotland and the colder parts of Wales is its exceeding hardiness. The
severest winters do not harm the plant, and it may remain in the open ground until wanted,
occasioning no trouble for storage.

==Times of Sowing.==--To obtain large handsome specimens of the finest quality a start must
be made in January or early February, and this early sowing is imperative for the production
of Leeks for exhibition, as the roots must be given a longer season of growth than is generally
allowed for ordinary crops. It is usual to sow in pans or boxes of moistened soil, placed in
a temperature of about 55°. The seeds need only a very light covering of fine soil. When the
seedlings are about two inches high transfer to shallow boxes of rich soil, spacing them three
inches apart each way, or the finest may be placed in pots of the 32-size, taking care not
to break the one slender root on which the plant depends at this stage. Grow on in the same
temperature until mid-March, when they may be transferred to a cold frame to undergo progressive
hardening in readiness for planting out at a favourable opportunity in April.

There may be three sowings of Leek made in the open ground in February, March, and April, to
insure a succession, and also to make good any failures. But for most gardens one sowing about
the middle of March will be sufficient. From this sowing it will be an easy matter to secure
an early supply, a main crop, and a late crop, for they may be transplanted from the seed-bed
at a very early stage, and successive thinnings will make several plantations; and finally,
as many can be left in the seed-bed to mature as will form a proper plantation.

==General Cultivation==.--The Leek will grow in any soil, and when no thicker than the finger
is useful; indeed, in many places where the soil is poor and the climate cold it rarely grows
larger, but is, nevertheless, greatly valued. A rich dry soil suits the plant well, and when
liberally grown it attains to a great size, and is very attractive, with its silvery root and
brilliant green top. The economical course of management consists in thinning and planting
as opportunities occur, beginning as soon as the plants are six inches high, and putting them
in well-prepared ground, which should be thoroughly watered previously, unless already softened
by rain. The distance for planting must depend upon the nature of the soil and the requirements
of the cultivator. For an average crop, eighteen inches between the rows and six to nine inches
between the plants is sufficient; but to grow large Leeks, they must be allowed a space of
twelve to eighteen inches in the rows. In planting, first shorten the leaves a little (and
very little), then drive down the dibber, and put the plant in as deep as the base of the leaves,
and close in carefully without pressure. Water liberally, occasionally stir the ground between
plants, and again cut off the tops of the leaves, when the roots will grow to a large size.
If the ground is dangerously damp or pasty, make a bed for the crop with light rich soil, plant
on the level and mould up as the growth advances. On light land, however, it is advisable to
grow them in trenches, prepared as for Celery. The largest and whitest should not be left to
battle with storms, but those left in the seed-bed will take no harm from winter weather, and
will be useful when the grandees are eaten. The finest roots that remain when winter sets in
may be taken up in good time and stored in dry sand, and will keep for at least a month. Any
that remain over in spring can readily be turned to account. As the flower-stems rise nip them
out; not one should be left. The result of this practice will be the formation on the roots
of small roundish white bulbs, which make an excellent dish when stewed in gravy, and may be
used for any purpose in cookery for which Onions or Shallots are employed. They are called
'Leek Bulbs,' and are obtainable only in early summer.

==Blanching==.--The edible part of the root should be blanched, and this may be effected in
various ways. Drain-pipes not less than two and a half inches in diameter, and from twelve
to fifteen inches in length, answer well for large stems. Tubes of stiff brown paper are also
very serviceable. Drawing up the earth to the stem as growth develops is a simple method of
blanching, and the edible portion may easily be increased according to the amount of earthing-up
given. Perfect blanching is of first importance when specimens are wanted for the exhibition
table, and a commencement must be made as soon as the plants may be said to have thoroughly
recovered from the effects of transplanting.

==LETTUCE==

==Lactuca sativa==

The lettuce is the king of salads, and as a cooked vegetable it has its value; but as it does
not compete with the Pea, the Asparagus, or the Cauliflower, we need not make comparisons,
but may proceed to the consideration of its uses in the uncooked state. Scientific advisers
on diet and health esteem the Lettuce highly for its anti-scorbutic properties, and especially
for its wholesomeness as a corrective. It supplies the blood with vegetable juices that are
needful to accompany flesh foods when cooked vegetables are unattainable. Our summers are usually
too brief and too cool to permit us to acquire a knowledge of the real value of the Lettuce,
but in Southern Europe and many parts of the East it becomes a necessary of life, and those
large red Lettuces that are occasionally grown here as curiosities are prized above all others
because of their crisp coolness and refreshing flavour under a burning sun.

The numerous varieties may, for practical purposes, be grouped in two classes--Cabbage and
Cos Lettuces. They vary greatly in habit and are adapted for different purposes, the first
group being invaluable for mixed salads at all seasons, but more especially in winter and early
spring; the second group is most serviceable in the summer season, and is adapted for a simple
kind of salad, the leaves being more crisp and juicy. A certain number of the two classes should
be grown in every garden, both for their great value to appetite and health, and their elegance
on the table, whether plain or dressed. In the selection of sorts, leading types should be
kept in view. Some of the varieties which have been introduced have no claim to a place in
a good list, because of their coarseness. Although they afford a great bulk of blanched material,
it is too often destitute of flavour, or altogether objectionable. The best types are tender
and delicately flavoured, representing centuries of cultivation, and the sub varieties of these
types should retain their leading characteristics, though perhaps they are more hardy and stand
longer, and are therefore much to be desired.

==Preparation of the Soil==.--The Lettuce requires a light, rich soil, but almost any kind
of soil may be so prepared as to insure a fair supply, and in places where fine Cos Lettuces
are not readily obtained, it may be possible to grow excellent Cabbage varieties in place of
them. A tolerably good garden soil will answer for both classes, and fat stable manure should
be liberally used. The best way to prepare ground for the summer crop is to select a piece
that has been trenched, and go over it again, laying in a good body of rough green manure,
one spade deep, so that the plant will be put on unmanured ground, but will reach the manure
at the very period when it is needed, by which time contact with the earth will have rendered
it sweet and mellow. By this mode of procedure the finest growth is secured, and the plants
stand well without bolting, as they, are saved from the distress consequent on continued dry
weather. As regards drought, it must be said that the red-leaved kinds stand remarkably well
in a hot summer, and although they do not rank high as table Lettuces in this country, were
we to experience a succession of roasting summers they would rise in repute and be in great
demand. Cabbage Lettuces bear drought fairly well, more especially the diminutive section;
but where water is available Lettuces have as good a claim to a share of it in a dry, hot season,
as any crop in the garden.

==Blanching==.--A first-class strain of White Cos Lettuce will produce tender white hearts
without being tied, and, as a rule, therefore, the labour of tying may be saved. The section
of which Sutton's Superb White Cos is the type may be said to produce better samples without
tying than with this imaginary aid to blanching. The market grower is still accustomed to tie
Lettuces because they are more easily packed and travel better when tied, but when tying is
practised it need not be done until one or two days before the Lettuces are cut. The coarser
market kinds certainly are improved by tying, and in this case the operation must be performed
when the plants are quite dry, and not more than ten days in advance of the day on which it
is intended to pull them. The Bath Cos must be tied always, and when well managed the heart
is white, with a pretty touch of pink in the centre.

==Spring-sown Lettuces== may be forwarded under glass from January to March, from which time
sowings may be made successively in the open ground. In any and every case the finest Lettuces
are obtained by sowing in the open ground, and leaving the plants to finish in the seed-bed
without being transplanted. It will, of course, occur to the practical cultivator that the
two systems may be combined, so as to vary the time of turning in, and thus from a single sowing
insuring a longer succession than is possible by one system only. We will suppose small sowings
made of three or four sorts in January or early in February, and put into a gentle heat to
start them. A very little care will keep them going nicely, and of course they must have light
and air to any extent commensurate with safety. When about three weeks old, it will be advisable
to prick these out into a bed of light rich earth in frames; or if the season is backward,
and they need a little more nursing, prick them into large shallow boxes, containing two or
three inches of soil, which will be sufficient provided it consists in great part of decayed
manure, kept always moist enough for healthy growing. The next step will be to plant them out
about six inches apart, with a view to draw a certain number as soon as they are large enough
to be useful, leaving the remainder at nine to twelve inches, taking care to thin out in time
to prevent any leaves overlapping. If Peas are being grown under glass, a few plants of an
early Cabbage variety may be put out between the rows, or they may be pricked out on the borders
of a Peach-house, in either case spacing the plants nine inches apart. Successive sowings made
in February and March will be treated in the same way, and will need less nursing. In planting
out, it is important to have the seedlings well hardened, for they are naturally susceptible
to wind and sunshine, and if suddenly exposed to either will be likely to perish. Again, when
first planted out their delicate leaves will attract all the slugs and snails in the garden,
and the discreet way of acting is to regard a plantation of Lettuce as an extensive vermin
trap, and thus, knowing where the marauders are, to be ready to catch and kill, or to destroy
them by sprinklings of lime, salt, or soot, in all cases being careful to keep these agents
at a reasonable distance from the plants.

Sowings in the open ground from the end of March onwards should be made, not on an ordinary
seed-bed, but on a plot loaded with rich manure at one spit deep, and the seed should be put
in shallow drills one foot apart. From the time the young plants are two inches high they must
be drawn freely for 'Cutting Lettuce,' or for planting out elsewhere; this thinning to proceed
until a sufficient crop remains to finish off on the ground. The value of 'Cutting Lettuce'
is better understood on the Continent than in this country. The small tender plants are in
daily use, and appear in the salad bowl with Water Cress and Corn Salad, delicately dressed
with delicious flavourings. After this brief digression it is necessary to add that a crowded
Lettuce crop is an encumbrance to the ground; and one of the evils of the best system, that
of sowing where the crop is to finish, is the tendency of the cultivator to be timid in the
thinning, which should be done with a bold hand, and in good time.

==July and August Sowing==.--From sowings made during these months the supply of Lettuce from
the open ground may be extended throughout the autumn, and even into December or January should
the weather prove favourable. The main conditions essential to success are, the use of quick-growing
varieties, sowing in good soil where the heads are to mature, and early and severe thinning.
The thinnings may be transplanted if required.

==Winter Lettuces== are produced and provided for in various ways. In some places Lettuces
stand out the winter without covering, and turn in early in the spring. But in other districts
they seldom survive the winter without protection, even when the sparrows spare them. The summer
sowings will afford supplies to a late season of the year, and the crop that remains when frost
sets in may be preserved with slight and rough protection. But for the profitable production
of Winter Lettuces frames are a necessity, and care must be taken not to promote a strong growth,
for after a term of mild winter weather a sudden and severe frost will probably annihilate
those that are in a too thriving condition. In the least likely places, however, it is well
to have a small plantation of Winter Lettuces in the open, and to give some rough protection
in bad times, as these often prove of great advantage, and even outlive frame crops which have
been allowed to get too forward by the aid of warmth and a rich soil.

For winter and spring use sowings should commence in August and be continued, according to
requirements, until the middle of October, after which it is waste of time and seed to sow
any more. The August and September sowings may be made partly on an open border and partly
in frames, but the October sowings must be in frames only, for winter may overtake them in
the seed-leaf. The seedlings must in all cases be thinned and pricked out as soon as large
enough, and should be planted in fine soil, free from recent manure, being carefully handled
to avoid needless check. Some should be planted in frames on beds of light soil near the glass,
at three inches apart, and when these meet they must be thinned for the house as may be necessary:
the remainder of the thinnings may be put out on warm borders at six inches, and, if quite
convenient, a crop should be left in the seed-bed at six inches. From the frames, the supplies
will be ready in time to follow those from late summer sowings, and thus through the winter
until the frames are cleared out for the work of the spring. The frame crop must have plenty
of air, and be kept as hardy as possible, but with moisture enough to sustain a steady healthy
growth. If roughly handled in the planting, or a little starved in respect of moisture, the
plants will rise from the centre just when they ought to begin to turn in, and the first few
days of warm sunshine will start them in the wrong way. As to those wintered out, there are
many ways of protecting them, and when success has crowned the effort there will be a crowded
plant. It will be necessary, therefore, to transplant at least half the crop by lifting every
other one. This must be done with care, as though they were worth a guinea each. By transplanting
early in March to a piece of rich light ground in a warm spot, and doing the work neatly and
smartly, the result will be a valuable crop of early Summer Lettuce, while those that remain
will help through the spring.

==Forcing.==--Lettuces do not force well; but as they are so constantly in demand, it is a
matter of importance to grow them in every possible way. Nice promising plants from August
and September sowings may be selected from the frames, and planted on gentle hot-beds from
November to January, and will do well if tenderly lifted. The Commodore Nutt and Golden Ball
are the best of the Cabbage varieties for forcing. The Cos varieties do not differ much as
to forcing, none of them being well adapted for the purpose; but the Superb White Cos may be
brought to fine condition by taking time enough, so as to make a very moderate warmth suffice.
On sunny days the heat should not exceed 75°; but 65° is sufficient, with a night temperature
of 45°to 50°.

One other method of providing small delicate salading may be adopted to meet emergencies. On
the barrows of itinerant greengrocers in Paris the thinnings of Lettuce crops form part of
the general stock, and in this country we do not sufficiently utilise this young tender stuff.
But we have now in view the use of Lettuce in a still earlier stage of growth. By sowing rather
thinly in boxes, kept under glass, a dense growth is produced in a short time which can be
cut in the same manner as Mustard. For this purpose Sutton's Winter Gathering is especially
valuable, or one of the best White Cos varieties should be sown.

==MAIZE and SUGAR CORN==

==Zea Mays==

Maize is a tender plant of great beauty that may be grown as a table vegetable, a forage plant,
or a corn crop; but in the last-named capacity it is rarely profitable in this country, owing
to the brevity of our summers. As an ornamental plant it is entitled to consideration, and
the more so because, while adorning the garden with its noble outlines and splendid silken
tufts, it will at the same time supply to the table the green cobs that are so much valued
when cooked and served in the same manner as Asparagus.

There is a simple rough and ready way of growing Maize, the first step towards which is to
prepare a deep rich soil, in a sunny and sheltered situation. Late in April or early in May
dibble the seeds two inches deep, in rows two feet asunder and one foot apart in the rows.
When the plants have made some progress, remove every other one, these thinnings to be destroyed
or planted at discretion. Plants may also be started under glass by sowing seeds in gentle
heat in April. Prick off into pots and gradually harden for transfer to the open. The crop
will almost take care of itself when the weather is warm enough to suit it. But a deluge of
water may be given during the hottest weather. In its native country, and indeed wherever Maize
thoroughly thrives, it is dependent on frequent storms.

==MELON==

==Cucumis Melo==

The popularity of this cool and delicious fruit has in recent years been greatly enhanced by
increased knowledge as to the best method of treating the plant, and also by the introduction
of several varieties which are attractive in form and superb in flavour. It would shock a modern
Melon eater to be advised to cook a Melon, and flavour it with vinegar and salt, as in the
early days of English gardening. A good Melon of the present day does not even need the addition
of sugar; the beauty, aroma, and flavour are such that it is not unusual for the epicure to
push the luscious Pine aside in order to enjoy this cool, fresh, gratifying fruit that delights
without cloying the palate. The newer varieties are remarkable alike for fruitfulness and high
quality, and are somewhat hardier than the favourites of years gone by.

The Melon is grown in much the same way as the Cucumber, but it differs in requiring a firmer
soil, a higher temperature, a much stronger light, less water, and more air. It may be said
that no man should attempt to grow Melons until he has had some experience in growing Cucumbers.
As regards this point, the hard and fast line is useless, but Cucumber-growing is certainly
a good practical preparative for the higher walk wherein the Melon is found. But Cucumbers
are grown advantageously all the winter through; Melons are not. The former are eaten green,
and the latter are eaten ripe; this makes all the difference. Melons that are ripened between
October and May are seldom worth the trouble bestowed upon them; therefore we shall say nothing
about growing Melons in winter.

==The Frame Culture== may with advantage begin about the middle of March by the preparation
of a good hot-bed. It is best to use a three-light frame, as the heat will be more constant
than with one of smaller size. There should be six loads of stuff laid up for the bed, and
the turning should be sufficient to take out the fire, without materially reducing the fermenting
power. Begin a fortnight in advance of making up the bed, and be careful at every stage to
do things well, as advised for the cultivation of frame Cucumbers. The best soil for Melons
is a firm, turfy loam, nine inches of which should be placed on top of the manure. In a clay
district, a certain amount of clay, disintegrated by frost, may be chopped over with turfy
loam from an old pasture. If the soil is poor, decayed manure should be added, but the best
possible Melons may be grown in a fertile loam without the aid of manures or stimulants of
any kind. It is good practice to raise the plants in pots, and have them strong enough to plant
out as soon as the newly-made beds have settled down to a steady temperature of about 80°,
but below 70° will be unsafe. If plants cannot be prepared in advance, seed must be sown on
the bed, and as a precaution against accidents and to permit of the removal of those which
show any sign of weakness, a sufficient number of seeds should be sown to provide for contingencies.

As regards the bed, it may be made once and for all at the time of planting, a few days being
allowed for warming the soil through. But we much prefer to begin with smallish hillocks, or
with a thin sharp ridge raised so as almost to touch the lights, and to plant or sow on this
ridge, which can be added to from time to time as the plants require more root room. The soil,
coming fresh and fresh, sustains a vigorous and healthy root action. The high ridge favours
the production of stout leaves, and the absorption by the soil of sun-heat is to the Melon
of the first importance.

The practice of pruning Melons as if the plants were grown for fodder, and might be chopped
at for supplies of herbage, must be heartily condemned. Melons should never be so crowded as
to necessitate cutting out, except in a quite trivial manner. A free and vigorous plant is
needed, and under skilful attention it will rarely happen that there is a single leaf anywhere
that can be spared. We will propose a practical rule that we have followed in growing Melons
for seed, of which a large crop of the most perfect fruits is absolutely needful to insure
a fair return. The young plants are pinched when there are two rough leaves. The result is
two side shoots. These are allowed to produce six or seven leaves, and are then pinched. After
this, the plants are permitted to run, and there is no more pinching or pruning until the crop
is visible. Then the fruits that are to remain must be selected, and the shoots be pinched
to one eye above each fruit, and only one fruit should remain on a shoot; the others must be
removed a few at a time. All overgrowth must be guarded against, for crowded plants will be
comparatively worthless. It is not by rudely cutting out that crowding is to be prevented,
but by timely pinching out every shoot that is likely to prove superfluous. From first to last
there must be a regular plant, and not a shoot should be allowed to grow that is not wanted.
Cutting out may produce canker, and crowding results in sterility.

As the Melon is required to ripen its fruits, and the Cucumber is not, the treatment varies
in view of this difference. It is not necessary to fertilise the female flowers of the Cucumber,
but it is certainly desirable, if not absolutely necessary, to operate on those of the Melon
to insure a crop. The early morning, when the leaves are dry and the sun is shining, is the
proper time for this task, which is described in a later paragraph. And the necessity for ripening
the crop marks another difference of management, for Cucumbers may carry many fruits, and continue
producing them until the plants are exhausted. But the production of Melons must be limited
to about half a dozen on each plant, and good management requires that these should all ripen
at the same time, or nearly so, fully exposed to the sun, and with plenty of ventilation.

The requisite supply of water is an important matter. The plant should never be dry at the
root, and must have a light shower twice a day over the leafage, but the moisture which is
necessary for Cucumbers would be excessive for Melons. It is a golden rule to grow Melons liberally,
keeping them sturdy by judicious air-giving, and to give them a little extra watering just
as they are coming into flower. Then, as the flowers open, the watering at the root should
be discontinued, and the syringe should be used in the evening only at shutting up. If discontinued
entirely, red spider will appear, and the crop will be in jeopardy, for that pest can be kept
at a distance only by careful regulation of atmospheric moisture.

Melons in frames do better spread out on the beds than when trained on trellises. When so grown,
each fruit must be supported with a flat tile or an inverted flower-pot, and means must be
taken, by pegs or otherwise, to prevent it from rolling off, for the twist of stem that ensues
may check the fruit or cause it to fall. When the fruits are as large as the top joint of a
man's thumb, watering may be resumed, and the syringe used twice a day until the fruit begins
to change colour, when there must be a return to the dry system, but with care to avoid carrying
it to a dangerous extreme.

==The Melon-house==, heated by hot water, is adapted to supply fruit earlier than is obtainable
by frame culture, and is entirely superior to any frame or pit. It appears, however, that in
Melon-houses red spider is more frequently seen than in frames heated by fermenting material;
but this point rests on management, and there can be nothing more certain than that a reasonable
employment of atmospheric humidity may be made effectual for preventing and removing this pest.
For the convenient cultivation of the crop a lean-to or half-span is to be preferred. The width
should not exceed twelve feet, and ten to twelve feet should be the utmost height of the roof.
A service of pipes under the bed will be required; but as Melons are not grown in winter, the
heating of a Melon-house is a simple affair, and, indeed, very much of the cultivation as the
summer advances will be carried on by the aid of sun-heat only. The treatment of the plants
in a house differs from the frame management, because a trellis is employed, and the plants
are taken up the trellis without stopping until they nearly reach the top, when the points
are pinched out to promote the growth of side shoots. In setting the fruit, the same principles
prevail as in frame culture, and it is advisable to 'set' the whole crop at once; if two or
three fruits obtain a good start, others that are set later will drop off. As the fruits swell,
support must be afforded to prevent any undue strain on the vine, and this should be accomplished
by nets specially made for the purpose, or by suspending small flat boards of half-inch deal
with copper wires, each fruit resting on its board, until the cracking round the stem gives
warning that the fruit should be cut and placed in the fruit room for a few days to complete
the ripening for the table. In houses of the kind described Melons and Cucumbers are occasionally
grown together. But although this may be done, and there are many cultivators expert in the
business, the practice cannot be recommended, for ships that sail near the wind will come to
grief some day. The moisture and partial shade that suit the Cucumber do not suit the Melon,
and it is a poor compromise to make one end of the house shady and moist, and the other end
sunny and dry, to establish different conditions with one atmosphere. A glass partition pretty
well disposes of the difficulty, because it is then possible to insure two atmospheres suitable
for two different operations. (=See also pages 157, 175, and 184.=)

==The Pollination of Melons== is performed by plucking the mature male blooms, and after the
removal of the petals, transferring the pollen of the male flower to the stigma of the female
flower.

==MERCURY==

==Chenopodium Bonus-Henricus==

This perfectly hardy vegetable, known also by the name of Good King Henry, is much grown in
Lincolnshire. The leaves are used in the same way as Spinach, and by earthing up the shoots
they may be blanched as a substitute for Asparagus. Sow the seeds during April in drills twelve
inches apart, and in due course thin the seedlings to one foot apart in the rows.

==MUSHROOM==

==Agaricus campestris==

The Mushroom has many friends among all classes, few benevolent neutrals, and fewer still who
are absolutely hostile to it as an article of food. Those who find, or imagine they find, that
this delicacy does not agree with them, might possibly arrive at another conclusion were a
different mode of preparation adopted, or were the consumption of it accompanied with a full
persuasion that the Mushroom is not merely delicious in flavour, but thoroughly wholesome,
rich in flesh-forming constituents, and, for a vegetable, possessed of more than the average
proportion of fat-formers and minerals. These facts have been clearly established by chemical
analysis, and may dispose of timid misgivings, always supposing the true edible Mushroom, =Agaricus
campestris=, to be in question.

Hitherto the artificial production of Mushrooms has never been equal to the demand. Notwithstanding
the enormous quantities sent to Covent Garden by the growers around London, many tons are imported
from France, although it is generally admitted that they are neither so fine nor so rich in
flavour as those produced in this country. If, however, the large centres of population are
inadequately supplied, the scarcity of Mushrooms is more keenly felt in the provinces, except,
perhaps, in certain favoured districts, where, after a few warm days in autumn, an abundant
crop may be gathered from the neighbouring pastures. Then there is a brave show in the greengrocers'
windows for a brief period, followed by entire dearth for weeks, and perhaps months. Obviously,
therefore, the demand, large as it already is, might be immensely augmented by a commensurate
supply. Yet it is not only possible but quite easy to grow Mushrooms for the greater part of
the year in very small gardens, even when such gardens are entirely destitute of the appliances
usually considered necessary for the higher flights of horticulture. The idea that Mushroom-growing
is somewhat of a mystery, forbidden to all but the strictly initiated, has happily been dispelled.
If we examine the conditions under which Mushrooms grow freely in pastures, it is surprising
how few and simple are the elements of success. The crop generally appears in September, when
temperature is genial and fairly equable, with sufficient but not superabundant moisture. The
artificial production of Mushrooms in the garden needs only reliable spawn, a sweet fertile
bed, and some means of maintaining a steady temperature under varying atmospheric conditions.
When the principles of Mushroom culture are thoroughly mastered, they may be successfully applied
in many different ways, and they render the practical work easy and tolerably certain.

==The Spawn.==--Although the Mushroom may be grown from seed, it is seldom done except for
strictly scientific purposes. The seeds are, however, largely disseminated by Nature, and,
having found a suitable home, they germinate and produce an underground growth which at a hasty
glance resembles mildew. It really consists of white gossamer-like films, which increase in
number and distinctness as they develop, until they push their way towards the surface, and
give rise to the growth above ground of the Mushroom. It follows that if we do not begin the
cultivation with seeds or spores, we must resort to the white films or 'mycelium,' that the
growth of the plant may begin in Nature's own way below ground. What is called 'Mushroom Spawn'
consists of certain materials from the stable and the field, mixed and prepared in such a manner
as to favour the development of the mycelium of the Mushroom. When dried, the cakes have the
appearance of an unburnt brick. The preparation of the spawn, though a very simple matter,
demands the skill and care of experienced operators. If the work is not well done, the spawn
will be of poor quality, and will yield a meagre crop, or perhaps fail to produce a single
Mushroom. Whether the cakes or bricks are impregnated in the manner long practised in this
country, or direct from the tissue of the Mushroom, the culture remains the same. Provided
that the spawn is good, it has but to be broken into lumps of a suitable size, and inserted
in the bed, to impregnate the entire mass with the necessary white films. These will take their
time to collect from the soil the alkalies and phosphates of which Mushrooms principally consist,
and this part of their work being done, the fruits of their labours will be displayed above
ground in the elegant and sweet-smelling fungus that few human appetites can resist when it
is placed upon the table in the way that it deserves. Experts can readily form an opinion as
to whether a cake of Mushroom spawn is or is not in a fit state for planting, and it will be
a safe proceeding for the amateur to buy from a Firm which has a large and constant sale; otherwise,
spawn may be purchased which was originally well made and properly impregnated, but has lost
its vitality through long keeping.

==Soil.==--As to soil, it is well known that in a favourable autumn Mushrooms abound in old
rich pastures, and those who have command of turf cut from a field of this character have only
to stack the sods grass side downwards for a year or two, and they will be in possession of
first-class material for Mushroom beds either in the open or under cover. But small gardens,
particularly in towns, have no such bank to honour their drafts, and for these it becomes a
question of buying a load or two of turfy loam, or of making the soil of the garden answer,
perhaps with a preliminary enrichment by artificial manure. In the general interests of the
garden, the money for a limited quantity of good loam would probably be well spent, independently
of the question of Mushrooms. No great bulk is necessary to cover a moderate-sized Mushroom
bed, but the quality of the soil will certainly have an influence on the number and character
of the Mushrooms. As a proof of the exhaustive nature of the fungus, it almost invariably happens
that when the soil is used a second time it tends to diminish the size and lower the quality
of the crop.

==Manure.==--In the management of the manure two essentials must be borne in mind. Not only
is nourishment for the plant required, but warmth also. Probably a large proportion of the
failures to grow Mushrooms might, if all the facts were known, be traced to some defect in
the manure employed, or to some fault in its preparation. It must be rich in the properties
which encourage and support the development of Mushrooms, absolutely free from the least objectionable
odour, for the plant is most fastidious in its demand for sweetness, although it can dispense
with light; and there must remain in the manure when made into a bed a sufficient reserve of
fermentation to insure prolonged heat, no matter what the temperature of the atmosphere may
be. Of course, the duration of the heat will depend very much on the care with which it is
conserved by suitable covering and management. These requirements, formidable as they may seem,
can be insured with extreme ease; indeed, the work is apparently far more difficult and complicated
on paper than it proves to be in practice.

==Preparation of the Bed.==--The manure should come from stables occupied by horses in good
health, fed exclusively on hard food. The most suitable store is the floor of a dry shed, or
under some protection which will prevent the loss of vital forces. Ammonia, for example, is
readily dissipated in the atmosphere or washed away by rain. The manure should neither be allowed
to become dust dry, nor to waste its power in premature fermentation. Operations may be commenced
with three or four loads. A smaller quantity increases the difficulty of maintaining the requisite
temperature when fermentation begins to flag. The first procedure is to make the manure into
a high oblong heap well trodden down. If the stuff be somewhat dry, a sprinkling of water over
every layer will be necessary. In a few days fermentation will make the heap hot all through,
and then it must be taken to pieces and remade, putting all the outside portions into the interior,
with the object of insuring equal fermentation of the entire bulk. This process will have to
be repeated several times at intervals of three or four days until the manure has not only
been fermented but sweetened. When ready it will be of a dark colour, soft, damp enough to
be cohesive under pressure, but not sufficiently damp to part with any of its moisture, and
almost odourless; at all events the odour will not be objectionable, but may be suggestive
of Mushrooms. Make a long bed, having a base about four feet wide, and sides sloping to a ridge
like the roof of a house, with this difference--the narrow part of the ridge is useless, and
the top should, therefore, be rounded off when about a foot across. Some growers prefer a circular
bed of six or eight feet diameter at the bottom and tapering towards a point, after the shape
of a military tent; but here again the point will be worthless, and the bed may terminate abruptly.
Either the long bed or the round heap answers admirably. Tread the manure down compactly, and
for the sake of appearances endeavour to finish it off in a workmanlike manner. During the
first few days there will be a considerable rise in the temperature, which will gradually subside,
and when the plunging thermometer shows that it has settled down to a comfortable condition
of about 80° the bed must be spawned. Experienced men can determine by the sense of touch when
the temperature is right, but the inexperienced should rely entirely on the thermometer. The
question will arise as to the period of the year when operations should be commenced. Well,
the experts who grow Mushrooms in the open ground for market gather crops almost the year round;
but a beginner will do wisely to start under the most favourable natural conditions, and these
will be found about midsummer, because the bed will commence bearing before winter creates
difficulty as to temperature.

==Spawning and After-management.==--Break each cake of spawn into eight or ten pieces, and
force every piece gently a little way into the manure at regular intervals of six to nine inches
all over the bed, closing the manure over and round each piece of spawn. The practice of inserting
spawn by means of the dibber is to be strongly condemned, for it leaves smooth, hollow spaces
which arrest the mycelium; and very small pieces of spawn should be avoided because they generally
result in small Mushrooms. Immediately the spawning is completed, a thick and even covering
of clean straw or litter of some kind should be laid over the bed, secured from wind by canvas,
mats, hurdles, or in some other way. From good spawn the films of mycelium will begin to extend
within a week. In the contrary case an examination of the pieces will show that they have become
darker than when put into the bed, which means that they have perished. Then the question will
arise as to whether the bed or the spawn is at fault, and the former must either be spawned
again or broken up. Supposing the spawn to show signs of vitality, the time has come for covering
the bed with a layer of rather moist soil, pressed lightly but firmly on to the manure with
the spade or fork, so that the earth will not slip down. At once restore the covering of litter,
&c., and wait patiently for about seven or eight weeks for the crop. Meanwhile the plunging
thermometer ought to be consulted daily. Until the Mushrooms appear the instrument should not
indicate less than 60°, and while in bearing not less than 55°. Experience proves that the
most violent alternations of temperature may be combated by regulating the thickness of the
covering. Although it may possibly be necessary to resort to eighteen inches of litter or more
during hard frost or the prevalence of a cutting east wind, a much thinner covering will suffice
in milder weather.

Should the temperature of the bed, through inexperience in the management of it, sink below
the point at which Mushrooms can grow, we advise the exercise of a little patience. We have
known several instances of beds made in autumn producing no crop at the expected time, but
which have borne fairly in the following spring or summer. But in the event of the first effort
failing outright there is no great loss. The manure, which is the most costly item, will still
be available for the garden, and an observant man will pretty well understand in what respect
he must amend his course of procedure.

==Water.==--Moisture is of great consequence, for a dry Mushroom bed will soon be barren also;
but whenever water is given it must be applied tepid and from a fine rose. To slop cold water
over a Mushroom bed is about as reasonable a procedure as putting ice into hot soup. Water
is best administered in the afternoon of a genial day, and should be sufficient to saturate
the bed. Immediately it is done the covering of litter and canvas must be promptly restored
to prevent the temperature from being seriously lowered by rapid evaporation. A couple of stakes
driven from the crown to the bottom of the bed at the time of making up the heap are useful
as indicators of moisture, and may occasionally be drawn out and examined.

==In gathering the crop,== only a small portion of the bed should be uncovered at a time. This
should be the rule at all seasons, and the strict observance of it will prevent a mistake in
cold weather, for then, if the bed is carelessly uncovered and much chilled, the crop will
come to an end, when perhaps it would, if properly handled, be at high tide and full of profit.
Another rule should be enforced, to this effect, that every Mushroom must be taken out complete,
and if the root does not come with the stem, it must be dug out with a knife. Any trifling
with this rule will prove a costly mistake. The stem of a Mushroom, if left in the ground,
will produce nothing at all. But it may attract flies, and it certainly will interfere with
the movements of the mycelium at that particular spot, and actually prevent the production
of any more Mushrooms. The old practitioners were accustomed to leave the stem in the ground,
and they were content with about one-third of the crop now produced on beds that are, perhaps,
not better made than were theirs. But they had a notion about the powers of the root which
increased knowledge of the subject has shown to be fallacious.

==In Pastures.==--As already indicated, Mushrooms are often to be found in abundance in well-stocked
pastures during the late summer months, and where favourable conditions exist it is an excellent
plan to insert pieces of spawn two inches deep in the turf in June and July.

==Turf Pits.==--The facility with which Mushrooms may be raised under simple methods is illustrated
by the practice of growing them inside the turf walls of cool pits. In the country turf walls
are common, and they offer the advantage of growing Mushrooms in addition to the purpose they
usually serve. After determining the size of the pit, and accurately marking it on the ground,
cut the turf into narrow strips, say three or four inches wide, and of exactly eighteen inches
length. The strips should be closely laid, grass side downwards, across the width of the walls--not
longitudinally--except at the corners, where the layers should cross each other. The front
and back walls to be rather above the required height, because the turf always scales down
a little, and the two ends must gradually rise from front to back. The top layer may be right
side up, when it will keep green for a long time. As the work proceeds insert lumps of spawn
at intervals in every layer, about three or four inches from the inside edge. A wooden frame
will be requisite on the top to carry the glass lights. This structure makes a useful cool
pit and a Mushroom bed from which supplies may sometimes be gathered for years. In the summer
it will be necessary to keep the walls moist by means of the syringe, or they will cease bearing.

==Indoor Beds.==--Mushrooms may be grown almost anywhere, evenly in a cellar, or on the wall
of a warm stable, provided only that the mode of procedure is in a reasonable degree adapted
to the requirements of the fungus. Ordinary pits and frames are also serviceable, and many
gardeners obtain good crops in autumn by the simple process of inserting a few lumps of spawn
in a Cucumber or Melon bed while the plants are still in bearing. Between spawning and cropping
a period of six or eight weeks usually elapses, so that if the plan just mentioned be adopted,
the spawn should be introduced in the height of summer, both to insure it a warm bed and to
allow time for the crop to mature before the season runs out. Sheds and outhouses not only
afford shelter and space for beds on the floor, but the walls can be fitted with shelves on
which Mushrooms may be plentifully grown. In all cases the shelves should be two feet apart
vertically, and each shelf should have a ledge nine inches deep. The walls of a house may be
quickly and cheaply fitted with woodwork for the purpose, but brick is so much better than
wood that whenever it is possible to employ brick it should have the preference. As regards
the ledges, they should be of stout planking in any case, and should not be fixed, because
of the necessity for clearing the shelves and renewing the soil periodically. The details of
cultivation are the same within doors as without, but the roof gives valuable protection, and
helps to maintain the beds at a suitable temperature.

==A proper Mushroom-house== for production during winter should be heated with hot water, and
have an opaque roof. There is nothing so good for the crop as a roof of thatch, but there are
many objections to it, and usually slate is employed. A double roof will pay for its extra
cost by promoting an equable temperature. A few side lights fitted with shutters are necessary,
as there should be a good light for working purposes; but the crop does not need light, and
a more steady temperature can be maintained in a dark house than in one which has several windows.
The most convenient dimensions for a Mushroom-house are: length, twenty-five feet; width, twelve
feet; height at sides, six feet, to allow of a bed on the floor, and a shelf four feet above
it; the ridge rising sufficiently for head room, and to shoot off water. There will be room
for a central path of four feet, and a bed of four feet on each side. An earth or tile floor
and a slate or stone shelf will, with one four-inch flow and return pipe, complete the arrangements.
The less wood and the less concrete the better; there is nothing like porous red tiles for
the floor and stone for the shelves, with loose planks on edge to keep up the soil, a few uprights
being sufficient to hold them in their places.

==Temperatures== at every point are of great importance. The bed should be near 80° when the
spawn is inserted. The air temperature requisite to the rising crop is 60° to 65°, which is
the usual temperature of the season when Mushrooms appear in pastures. While the bed is bearing
a temperature of 55° will suffice, but at any point below this minimum production will be slow
and may come to a stop. When giving water, take care that it is at a temperature rather above
than below that of the bed.

==MUSTARD==

==Sinapis alba, and S. nigra==

Mustard is much valued as a pungent salad, and for mixing in the bowl it may take the place
of Water Cress when the latter is not at command. Mustard is often sown with Cress, but it
is bad practice, for the two plants do not grow at the same pace, and there is nothing gained
by mixing them. The proper sort for salading is the common White Mustard, but Brown Mustard
may be used for the purpose. Rape is employed for market work, but should be shunned in the
garden. As the crop is cut in the seed leaf, it is necessary to sow often, but the frequency
must be regulated by the demand. Supplies may be kept up through the winter by sowing in shallow
boxes, which can be put into vineries, forcing pits, and other odd places. Boxes answer admirably,
as they can be placed on the pipes if needful; they favour the complete cutting of a crop without
remainders, and this is of importance in the case of a salad that runs out of use quickly and
is so easily produced. From Lady Day to Michaelmas Mustard may be sown on the open border with
other saladings, but as the summer advances a shady place must be found for it.

==ONION==

==Allium Cepa==

The onion has the good fortune to be generally appreciated and well grown almost everywhere.
It enhances the flavour and digestibility of many important articles of food that would fail
to nourish us without its aid, while to others it adds a zest that contributes alike to enjoyment
and health. Although there are but few difficulties to be encountered in the cultivation of
the Onion, there is a marked difference between a well-grown crop and one under poor management.
There is, moreover, what may be termed a fine art department in Onion culture, one result being
special exhibitions, in which handsome bulbs of great weight are brought forward in competition
for the amusement and edification of the sight-seeing public. Thus, when the first principles
have been mastered, there may be, for the earnest cultivator of this useful root, many more
things to be learned, and that may be worth learning, alike for their interest and utility.

==Treatment of Soil.==--The Onion can be grown on any kind of soil, but poor land must be assisted
by liberal manuring. A soil that will not produce large Onions may produce small ones, and
the smallest are acceptable when no others are to be had. But for handsome bulbs and a heavy
crop a deep rich loam of a somewhat light texture is required, although an adhesive loam, or
even a clay, may be improved for the purpose; while on a sandy soil excellent results may be
obtained by good management, especially in a wet season. In any case the soil must be well
prepared by deep digging, breaking the lumps, and laying up in ridges to be disintegrated by
the weather, and if needful its texture should be amended, as far as possible, at the same
time. A coat of clay may be spread over a piece of sand, to be thoroughly incorporated with
it; on the other hand, where the staple is clay, the addition of sand will be advantageous.
All such corrective measures yield an adequate return if prudently carried out, because it
is possible to grow Onions from year to year on the same ground; and thus in places where the
soil is decidedly unsuitable a plot may be specially prepared for Onions, and if the first
crop does not fully pay the cost, those that follow will do so. But the plant is not fastidious,
and it is easy work almost anywhere to grow useful Onions. The first step in preparing land
is to make it loose and fine throughout, and as far as possible to do this some time before
the seed is sown. For sowing in spring, the beds should be prepared in the rough before winter,
and when the time comes for levelling down and finishing, the top crust will be found well
pulverised, and in a kindly state to receive the seed. Stagnant moisture is deadly to Onions,
therefore swampy ground is most unfit; but a sufficient degree of dryness for a summer crop
may often be secured by trenching, and leaving rather deep alleys between the beds to carry
off surface water during heavy rains.

==Manures.==--As almost any soil will suit the Onion, so also will almost any kind of manure,
provided that it be not rank or offensive. This strongly flavoured plant likes good but sweet
living, and it is sheer folly to load the ground for it with coarse and stimulating manures.
Yet it is often done, and the result is a stiff-necked generation of bulbs that refuse to ripen,
or there may be complete failure of the crop through disease or plethora. But any fertiliser
that is at hand, whether from the pigstye, or the sweepings of poultry yards or pigeon lofts,
may be turned to account by the simple process of first making it into a compost with fresh
soil, and then digging it in some time in advance of the season for sowing, and in reasonable
but not excessive quantity. All such aids to plant growth as guano, charcoal, and well-rotted
farmyard manure, may be used advantageously for the Onion crop; but there are two materials
of especial value, and costing least of any, that are universally employed by large growers,
both to help the growth and prevent maggot and canker. These are lime and soot, which are sown
together when the ground is finally prepared for the seed, and in quantity only sufficient
to colour the ground. They exercise a magical influence, and those who make money by growing
Onions take care to employ them as a necessary part of their business routine.

==Spring-sown Onions== require to be put on rich, mellow ground, the top spit of which is of
a somewhat fine texture, and at the time of sowing almost dry. Having been well dug and manured
in good time, the top spit only should be dug over when it is finally made ready for the seed.
The work must be done with care, and the beds should be marked off in breadths of four feet,
with one-foot alleys between. Break all lumps with the spade, and work the surface to a regular
and finely crumbled texture. Light soil should be trodden over to consolidate it, and then
the surface may be carefully touched with the rake to prepare it for the seed. March and April
are the usual months for spring sowing, although in mild districts seed is sometimes put in
as early as January. Space the rows from nine to twelve inches apart, according to the character
of the sort and the size of bulbs required. The drills must be drawn across the bed, at right
angles to the alleys, for when drawn the other way it is difficult to keep the ground properly
weeded. For a crop of Onions intended for storing, the seed should be only just covered with
fine earth taken from the alleys and thrown over, after which the drills must be lightly trodden,
the surface again touched over with the rake, and if the soil is dry and works nicely, the
business may be finished by gently patting the bed all over with the back of the spade. If
the ground is damp or heavy, this final touch may be omitted, as the Onion makes a weak grass
that cannot easily push through earth that is caked over it. But speaking generally, an Onion
bed newly sown should be quite smooth as if finished with a roller. To the beginner this will
appear a protracted and complicated story, but the expert will attest that Onions require and
will abundantly pay for special management.

As soon as possible after the crop is visible the ground between should be delicately chopped
over with the hoe to check the weeds that will then be rising. Immediately the rows are defined
a first thinning should be made with a small hoe, care being taken to leave a good plant on
the ground. The next thinning will produce young Onions for saladings, and this kind of thinning
may be continued by removing plants equally all over the bed to insure an even crop, the final
distance for bulbing being about six inches. Keep the hoe at work, for if weeds are allowed
to make way, the crop will be seriously injured. When Onions are doing well they lift themselves
up and =sit= on the earth, needing light and air upon their bulbs to the very axis whence the
roots diverge. If weeds spread amongst them the bulbs are robbed of air and light, and their
keeping properties are impaired. But in the use of the hoe it is important not to loosen the
ground or to draw any earth towards the bulbs. When all the thinning has been done, and the
weeds are kept down, it will perhaps be observed that in places there are clusters of bulbs
fighting for a place and rising out of the ground together as though enjoying the conflict.
With almost any other kind of plant this crowding would bode mischief, but with Onions it is
not so. Bulbs that grow in crowds and rise out of the ground will never be so large as those
that have plenty of room, but they will be of excellent quality, and will keep better than
any that have had ample space for high development. It is almost a pity to touch these accidental
clusters, for the removal of a portion will perhaps loosen the ground, and so spoil the character
of those that are left. Really fine Onions are rarely produced in loose ground, hence the necessity
for care in the use of the hoe. Watering is not often needed, and we may go so far as to say
that, in a general way, it is objectionable. But a long drought on light land may put the crop
in jeopardy, unless watering is resorted to, in which case weak manure water will be beneficial.
Still, watering must be discontinued in good time, or it will prevent the ripening of the bulbs,
and if a sign is wanted the growth will afford it, for from the time the bulbs have attained
to a reasonable size the water will do more harm than good.

==The harvesting of the crop== requires as much care as the growing of it. If all goes well,
the bulbs will ripen naturally, and being drawn and dried on the ground for a few days with
their roots looking southward, may be gathered up and topped and tailed or bunched as may be
most convenient. But there may be a little hesitation of the plant in finishing growth, the
result, perhaps, of cool moist weather, when dry hot weather would be better. In this case
the growth may be checked by passing a rod (as the handle of a rake for example) over the bed
to bend down the tops. After this the tops will turn yellow, and the necks will shrink, and
advantage must be taken of fine weather to draw the Onions and lay them out to dry. A gravel
path or a dry shed fully open to the sun will ripen them more completely than the bed on which
they have been grown; but large breadths of Onions must be ripened where they grew, and experience
teaches when they may be drawn with safety.

As to keeping Onions, any dry, cool, airy place will answer. But if a difficulty arises there
is an easy way out of it, for Onions may be hung in bunches on an open wall under the shelter
of the eaves of any building, and thus the outsides of barns and stables and cottages may be
converted into Onion stores, leaving the inside free for things that are less able to take
care of themselves. During severe frost they must be taken down and piled up anywhere in a
safe place, but may be put on their hooks again when the weather softens, for a slight frost
will not harm them in the least, and the wall will keep them comparatively warm and dry. When
the best part of the crop has been bunched or roped, the remainder may be thrown into a heap
in a cool dry shed, and a few mats put over them will prevent sprouting for at least three
months. But damp will start them into growth, and the only way to save them then is to top
and tail them again, and store as dry as possible in shallow baskets or boxes.

==To grow large Onions== the principles already explained must be carried into practice in
a more intense degree. It will be necessary to devote extreme care to the preparation of the
ground, and to give the plants more time to mature; much greater space must also be allowed
than is usual for an ordinary crop. A good open position is imperative, and where the soil
is sufficiently deep, trenching is desirable. Shallow soil ought to be thoroughly dug down
to the last inch, and it will be an advantage to break up the subsoil by pickaxe and fork.
Cover the subsoil with a thick layer of rotten manure before restoring the top soil. For light
land farmyard manure is excellent, but stable manure is preferable for stiff cold soil. The
usual time for trenching is October or November, leaving the surface rough for disintegration
during winter. Nothing more need be done until the following March. Early in that month break
the soil down to a fine tilth and make it quite firm by treading, or by rolling. Then broadcast
over the plot a liberal dressing of ground lime and soot, using about three pounds of each
per pole. Rake both in and leave the bed until the time arrives for planting out: this will
depend on the weather.

Those who are accustomed to exhibit Onions at horticultural shows almost invariably sow very
early in the year under glass and in due time transplant either from seed-pans or boxes. Of
the two, properly prepared boxes are usually found most convenient. The dimensions are optional,
but boxes about two feet long, one foot wide, and five inches deep answer admirably. Several
holes are perforated in the bottom to insure efficient drainage. In every box place a thick
layer of rotten manure and then fill with thoroughly rich soil firmly pressed down, leaving
the surface quite smooth. One of the most successful growers sows seed in rather small boxes
early in January, and about the middle of February the young Onions are pricked into boxes
of the size we have named. Only the finest and most promising seedlings are used. When transferred,
each Onion is allowed a space of three inches. The boxes are kept in a greenhouse, as near
the glass as possible, in a temperature of about 50°. After sowing, very little water is given;
but when transplanted, finish with a sprinkling from a fine rose. Every morning the plants
will require spraying, but this must never be done at night or damping off may follow. All
through their time in the greenhouse it is important to keep the boxes near the glass. Towards
the end of March remove to cold frames, keeping the lights rather close for a few days, but
gradually giving more air until the lights can be taken off for a short time daily.

In the south, about the middle of April is generally a suitable time for transplanting to open
beds, but in the event of a cold east wind prevailing a brief delay is advisable and it is
always an advantage to plant out on a dull day or in showery weather. Space the rows twelve
to eighteen inches apart, and allow about fifteen inches between plants in the rows. In the
actual work of transplanting take care to insert only the fibrous roots in the soil. To bury
any portion of the stem results in thickened necks. Finish with a dusting of soot over the
entire bed, including the Onions, and then well spray from a fine rose to settle the soil around
the roots. Until the plants are established continue the spraying daily. After the middle of
May renew the dusting of the bed with soot and repeat at fortnightly intervals. About the 20th
of June feeding the Onions must commence. Peruvian guano and nitrate of soda are both excellent,
but these powerful artificials need using with discretion, or the crop may be scorched instead
of stimulated. It is often safer to employ them in liquid form than dry, and ten ounces of
either, dissolved in ten gallons of water, will suffice for thirty square yards. Use the two
articles alternately at intervals of ten days and cease at the end of July. If continued longer,
some of the finest bulbs will split. The use of soot can, however, be regularly maintained.
Should bulbs be required for autumn exhibition carefully lift them a week or ten days in advance
of the show date. This has the effect of making the bulbs firm and reducing the size of the necks.

Supposing an attack of mildew to occur, a dusting of flowers of sulphur will prove effective
if applied immediately the disease appears. Sulphide of potassium, one ounce to a gallon of
water, is also a reliable remedy.

==July and August Sowing==.--During these months seed of the quick-growing types of Onion may
be sown for producing an abundant supply of salading and small bulbs during the autumn and
onwards. It is important to thin the plants early in order that those left standing in the
rows may have every opportunity of developing rapidly.

==Autumn-sown Onions==, intended for use in the following summer, may also be sown in the same
way as advised for spring sowing. The time of sowing is important, as the plants should be
forward enough before winter to be useful, but not so forward as to be in danger of injury
from severe frost. On well-drained ground all the sorts are hardy, and the finest types, which
are so much prized as household and market Onions, may be sown in autumn as safely as any others.
It may be well in most places to sow a small plot: in the latter part of July, and to make
a large sowing of the best keeping sorts about the middle of August--say, for the far north
the first of the month, and for the far south the very last day. Thin the plants in the rows
and transplant the thinnings, if required, as soon as weather permits in February. In places
where spring-sown Onions do not ripen in good time in consequence of cold wet weather, autumn
sowing may prove advantageous, as the ripening will take place when the summer is at its best,
and the crop may be taken off before the season breaks down.

==Pickling Onions== may be obtained by sowing any of the white or straw-coloured varieties
that are grown for keeping, but the large sorts are quite unfit; the best are the Queen and
Paris Silver-skin, as they are very white when pickled and are moderately mild in flavour.
A piece of poor dry ground should be selected and made fine on the surface. Sow in the month
of April thickly, but evenly, cover lightly, and roll or tread to give a firm seed-bed, and
make a good finish. Be careful to keep down weeds, and do not thin the crop at all. If sown
very shallow the bulbs will be round: if sown an inch deep they will be oval or pear-shaped.

==The Potato or Underground Onion== is not much grown in this country, in consequence of occasional
losses of the crop in severe winters. In the South of England the rule as to growing it is
to plant on the shortest day, and take up on the longest. It requires a rich, deep soil, and
to be planted in rows twelve inches apart, the bulbs nine inches apart in the row. Some cultivators
earth them up like Potatoes, but we prefer to let the bulbs rise into the light, even by the
removal of the earth, so as to form a basin around each, taking care, of course, not to lay
bare the roots in so doing. When the planted bulbs have put forth a good head of leaves, they
form clusters of bulbs around them, and the best growth is made in full daylight, the bulbs
sitting on and not in the soil.

==The Onion Grub== (=Phorbia cepetorum=) is often very troublesome to the crop, especially
in its early stages, and its presence may be known by the grass becoming yellow and falling
on the ground. It will then be found that the white portion, which should become the bulb,
has been pierced to the centre by a fleshy, shining maggot, a quarter of an inch in length,
this being the larva of an ashy-coloured, ill-looking, two-winged fly. Where this plague has
acquired such a hold as to be a serious nuisance, care should be taken to clear out all the
old store of Onions instantly upon a sufficiency of young Onions becoming available in spring,
and to burn them without hesitation. If left to become garden waste in the usual way, these
old Onions do much to perpetuate and augment the plague. A regular use of lime and soot will
be found an effectual preventive. Other remedies are suggested in the article on Onion Fly,
Page 420.

==PARSLEY==--=see= ==HERBS==, =page= 68

==PARSNIP==

==Pastinaca sativa==

The Parsnip is one of the most profitable roots the earth produces. Probably its sweet flavour
imposes a limit on its usefulness, but bad cooking doubtless has much to answer for, the people
in our great towns being, in too many instances, quite ignorant of the proper mode of cooking
this nourishing root. When cut in strips, slightly boiled and served up almost crisp, it is
a poor article for human food; but when cooked whole in such a way as to appear on the table
like a mass of marrow, it is at once a digestible dainty and a substantial food that the people
might consume more largely than they do, to their advantage.

The Parsnip requires only one special condition for its welfare, and that is a piece of ground
prepared for it by honest digging. Rich ground it does not need, but the crop will certainly
be the finer from a deep fertile sandy loam than from a poor soil of any kind. But the one
great point is to trench the ground in autumn and lay it up rough for the winter. Then at the
very first opportunity in February or March it can be levelled down and the seed sown, and
the task got out of hand before the rush of spring work comes on. A fine seed-bed should be
prepared either in one large piece or in four-feet strips, as may best suit other arrangements.
Sow in shallow drills eighteen inches apart, dropping the seeds from the hand in twos and threes
at a distance of six inches apart; cover lightly, and touch over with the hoe or rake to make
a neat finish. As soon as the plants are visible, ply the hoe to keep down weeds and thin the
crop slightly to prevent crowding anywhere. The thinning should be carried on from time to
time until the plants are a foot apart; or if the ground is strong and large roots are required,
they may be allowed fifteen inches. Good-quality roots may be grown on the worst types of clay
and on stony soils by boring holes and filling them in with fine earth, in the manner described
for Beet and Carrot. The holes for Parsnip, however, should be rather larger and deeper, with
more space allowed between. It may be well to lift some of the roots in November, a few spits
of earth being removed first at one end or corner of the piece to facilitate removal without
breaking the roots: these may be put aside for immediate use, but the general bulk of the crop
should remain in the ground to be dug as wanted, because the Parsnip keeps better in the ground
than out of it, and in the event of severe frost a coat of rough litter will suffice to prevent
injury. Whatever remains over in the month of February should be lifted and trimmed up and
stored in the coolest place that can be found, a coat of earth or sand being sufficient to
protect the roots from the injurious action of the atmosphere.

==GARDEN PEA==

==Pisum sativum==

Thanks to the skill and enterprise of enthusiastic specialists, we have now the wrinkled as
well as the round-seeded Peas for the earliest supply of this favourite vegetable. Not only
can we commence the season with a dish possessing the true marrowfat flavour, but in the new
maincrop varieties dwarf robust growth is combined with free-bearing qualities, while the size
of both Peas and pods has been increased without in the smallest degree sacrificing flavour.
On the contrary, there has been a distinct and welcome advance in all the special characteristics
which have won for this vegetable its popular position, and so highly is the crop esteemed
that it is usually regarded as a criterion by which the general management of a garden is judged.

As an article of food Peas are the most nutritious of all vegetables, rich in phosphates and
alkalies, and the plant makes a heavy demand on the soil, constituting what is termed an exhausting
crop. For this reason, and also because the time that elapses between sowing seed and gathering
the produce is very brief, it is imperative that the land should be well prepared to enable
the roots to ramify freely and rapidly collect the food required by the plant.

==Treatment of Soil==.--The soil for Peas must be rich, deep, and friable, and should contain
a notable proportion of calcareous matter. Old gardens need to be refreshed with a dressing
of lime occasionally, or of lime rubbish from destroyed buildings, to compensate for the consumption
of calcareous matters by the various crops. For early Peas, a warm dry sandy soil is to be
preferred; for late sorts, and especially for robust and productive varieties, a strong loam
or a well-tilled clay answers admirably, and it is wise to select plots that were in the previous
year occupied with Celery and other crops for which the land was freely manured and much knocked
about. Heavy manuring is not needed for the earliest Peas, unless the soil is very poor, but
for the late supplies it will always pay to trench the ground, and put a thick layer of rotten
manure at the depth of the first spit, in which the roots can find abundant nutriment about
the time when the pods are swelling. In all cases it is advisable not to enrich in any special
manner the top crust for Peas. When the young plant finds the necessary supplies near at hand,
the roots do not run freely but are actually in danger of being poisoned; but when the plant
is fairly formed, and has entered upon the fruiting stage, the roots may ramify in rich soil
to advantage. Hence the desirability of growing Peas in ground that was heavily manured and
frequently stirred in the previous year, and of putting a coat of rotten manure between the
two spits in trenching. As regards the last-named operation, it should be remarked that as
Peas require a somewhat fine tilth, the top spit should be kept on the top where the second
spit will prove lumpy, pasty, or otherwise unkind. In this case bastard trenching will be sufficient;
but when the second spit may be brought up with safety, it should be done for the sake of a
fresh soil and a deep friable bed. The use of wood ashes, well raked in immediately in advance
of sowing, will prove highly beneficial to the crop, for the Pea is a potash-loving plant.

==Method of Sowing==.--It will always pay to sow in flat drills about six inches wide, but
the V-shaped drill in which the seedlings are generally crowded injuriously is not satisfactory.
Two inches apart each way is a useful distance for the seed, although more space may be given
for the robust-growing maincrop and late varieties. It is wise policy, however, to sow liberally
in case of losses through climatic conditions, birds or mice; and if necessary superfluous
plants can always be withdrawn. The depth for the seed may vary from two to three inches: the
minimum for heavy ground and the maximum for light land.

==Early Crops (sown outdoors==).--Early Peas are produced in many ways. The simplest consists
in sowing one or more of the quick-growing round-seeded varieties in November, December, and
January, on sloping sheltered borders expressly prepared for the purpose, and provided with
reed hurdles to screen the plants from cutting winds. Where the assaults of mice are to be
apprehended, it is an excellent plan to soak the seed in paraffin oil for twenty minutes, and
then, having sown in drills only one inch deep, heap over the drill three inches of fine sand.
If this cannot be done, sow in drills fully two inches deep, for shallow sowing will not promote
earliness, but it is likely to promote weakness of the plant. It is not usual to grow any other
crop with first-early Peas, but the rows must be far enough apart to prevent them from shading
one another, and, if possible, let them run north and south, that they may have an equable
enjoyment of sunshine. As soon as the plant is fairly out of the ground, dust carefully with
soot, not enough to choke the tender leaves, but just sufficient to render them unpalatable
to vermin. When they have made a growth of about three inches, put short brushwood to support
and shelter them, deferring the taller sticks until they are required. Then fork the ground
between, taking care not to go too near to the plant. Sticks must be provided in good time,
lest the plant should be distressed, for not only do the sticks give needful support, but they
afford much shelter, as is the case with the small brushwood supplied in the first instance.

On fairly warm soils the first opportunity should be taken to sow one of the early dwarf marrowfat
varieties in the open ground. This may be in February or early March, but it will be useless
to make the attempt until the ground is in a suitable condition. Sow in flat drills as already
described, the distance from row to row depending upon future plans. If no intercropping is
to be done, eighteen inches between the rows will generally suffice for dwarf-growing Peas,
but many gardeners prefer to allow three feet and to take a crop of Spinach on the intervening
space.

==Early Crops (sown under glass.==)--We now come to the modes of growing early Peas by the
aid of glass. The surest and simplest method is to provide a sufficiency of grass turf cut
from a short clean pasture or common. There is in this case a risk of wireworm and black bot;
but if the turf is provided in good time and is laid up in the yard ready for use, it will
be searched by the small birds and pretty well cleansed of the insect larvas that may have
lurked in it when first removed. Lay the turves out in a frame, grass side downwards, and give
them a soaking with water in which a very small quantity of salt has been dissolved. This will
cause the remaining bots and slugs to wriggle out, and by means of a little patient labour
they can be gathered and destroyed. In January or February sow the seed rather thickly in lines
along the centre of each strip of turf, and cover with fine earth. By keeping the frame closed
a more regular sprouting of the seed will be insured; but as soon as the plants rise, air must
be given, and this part of the business needs to be regulated in accordance with the weather.
All now depends on the cultivator, for, having a very large command of conditions, it may be
said that he is removed somewhat from the sport of the elements, which wrecks many of our endeavours.
There are now three points to be kept in mind. In the first place, a short stout slow-growing
plant is wanted, for a tall lean fast-growing plant will at the end of the story refuse to
furnish the dish of Peas aimed at. Give air and water judiciously, and protect from vermin
and all other enemies. A little dry lime or soot may be dusted over the plants occasionally,
but not sufficient to choke the leaves. All going well, plant out in the month of March or
April, on ground prepared for the purpose, and laying the plant-bearing turves in strips, without
any disturbance whatever of the roots. Then earth them up with fine stuff from between the
rows, and put sticks to support and shelter them.

A more troublesome, but often a safer method, is to raise plants in pots, or in boxes about
four and a half inches deep and pierced at the bottom to insure free drainage. Old potting
soil will answer admirably, and the seeds should be put in one inch deep and two inches apart.
Place the pots or boxes in any light cool structure as near the roof-glass as possible, but
make no attempt to force either germination or the growth of the plants. When fair weather
permits, transfer to the open in March or April. A good succession may be obtained by sowing
a first-early dwarf variety and a second-early kind simultaneously.

==Main crops== require plenty of room, and that is really the chief point in growing them.
Supposing the ground has been well prepared as already advised, the next matter of importance
is the distance between the rows. The market gardener is usually under some kind of compulsion
to sow Peas in solid pieces, just far enough apart for fair growth, and to leave them to sprawl
instead of being staked, because of the cost of the proceeding. But the garden that supplies
a household is not subject to the severe conditions of competition, and Peas may be said to
go to the dinner table at retail and not at wholesale price. Moreover, high quality is of importance,
and here the domestic as distinguished from the commercial gardener has an immense advantage,
for well-grown 'Garden Peas' surpass in beauty and flavour the best market samples procurable.
To produce these fine Peas there must be plenty of space allowed between the rows, and it will
be found good practice to grow Peas and early Potatoes on the same plot, and to put short sticks
to the Peas as soon as they are forward enough. By this management the first top-growth of
the Potatoes may be saved from late May frosts, and the Peas will give double the crop of a
crowded plantation. The general sowings of Peas are made from March to June, but as regards
the precise time, seasons and climates must be considered. Nothing is gained by sowing maincrop
Peas so early as to subject the plant to a conflict with frost. It should be understood that
the finest sorts of Peas are somewhat tender in constitution, and the wrinkled sorts are more
tender than the round. Hence, in any case, the wrinkled seeds should be sown rather more thickly
than the round to allow for losses; but robust-habited Peas should never be sown so thickly
as the early sorts, for every plant needs room to branch and spread, and gather sunshine by
means of its leaves for the ultimate production of superb Green Peas.

==Late Crops.==--To obtain Peas late in the season sowings may be made in June and July, and
preference should be given to quick-growing early varieties. Ground from which early crops
of Cauliflower, Carrot, Cabbage, Potatoes, &c., have been removed is excellent for the purpose.
In dry weather thoroughly saturate the trench with water before sowing, and keep the seedlings
as cool as possible by screening them from the sun.

==Staking.==--This important operation must not be unduly deferred, as the plants are never
wholly satisfactory when once the stems have become bent. Commence by carefully earthing up
the rows as soon as the plants are about three inches high. In the case of early varieties,
light bushy sticks of the required height, thinly placed on both sides of the row, will suffice.
Maincrop and late Peas, however, should first be staked with bushy twigs about eighteen inches
high, these to be supplemented with sticks at least one foot taller than the variety apparently
needs, as most Peas exceed their recognised height in the event of a wet season. No attempt
should be made to construct an impenetrable fence, for Peas need abundance of light and air.
Neither should the stakes be arched at the top, but placed leaning outwards.

==General Cultivation.==--On the first appearance of the plant, a slight dusting of lime or
soot will render the rising buds distasteful to slugs and sparrows, but this is more needful
for the early than the later crops. When maincrop Peas have grown two or three inches, they
are pretty safe against the small marauders. As the plant develops, frequently stir the ground
between the rows to keep down weeds and check evaporation. The earthing up of the rows affords
valuable protection to the roots of the plants, and a light mulch of thoroughly decayed manure
will prove very helpful in a dry season. In the event of prolonged dry weather, however, measures
must be taken to supply water in good time and in liberal quantity. The advantage of deep digging
and manuring between the two spits will now be discovered, for Peas thus circumstanced will
pass through the trial, even if not aided by water, although much better with it; whereas similar
sorts, in poor shallow ground, will soon become hopelessly mildewed, and not even water will
save them. In giving water, it will be well to open a shallow trench, distant about a foot
from the rows on the shady side, and in this pour the water so as to fill the trench; by this
method water and labour will be economised, and the plant will have the full benefit of the
operation.

==The enemies Of Peas== are fewer in number than might be expected in the case of so nutritive
a plant. Against the weevil, the moth, and the fly, we are comparatively powerless, and perhaps
the safest course is occasionally to dust the plants with lime or soot, in which case the work
must be carefully done, or the leaf growth will be checked, to the injury of the crop. Light
dustings will suffice to render the plant unpalatable without interfering with its health,
but a heavy careless hand will do more harm than all the insects by loading the leafage with
obnoxious matter. The great enemy of the Pea crop is the sparrow, whose depredations begin
with the appearance of the plant, and are renewed from the moment when the pods contain something
worth having. Other small birds haunt the ground, but the sparrow is the leader of the gang.
Ordinary frighteners used in the ordinary way are of little use; the best are lines, to which
at intervals white feathers, or strips of white paper, or pieces of bright tin are attached.
In the seedling stage the plants may be protected by wire guards, and even strands of black
thread tied to short stakes will prove serviceable. We have found the surest way to guard the
crop against feathered plunderers is to have work in hand on the plot, so as to keep up a constant
bustle, and this shows the wisdom of putting the rows at such a distance as will allow the
formation of Celery trenches between them. We want a crop to come off, and another to be put
on while the Peas are in bearing; and early Potatoes, to be followed by Celery, may be suggested
as a rotation suitable in many instances. Even then the birds will have a good time of it in
the morning, unless the workmen are on the ground early. However, on this delicate point, the
'early bird' that carries a spade will have an advantage, because the sparrow is really a late
riser, and does not begin business until other birds have had breakfast, and have finished
at least one musical performance.

==Early Peas under Glass.==--So greatly esteemed are Peas at table that in many establishments
the demand for them is not limited to supplies obtainable from the open ground. Sowings may
be made from mid-November to mid-February, according to requirements and the extent of accommodation
available, from which the crops may be expected to mature from mid-March onwards. Where a large
glass-house, such as is used for Tomatoes, &c., is at command, early Peas may be grown without
prejudice to other crops. Assuming that a good depth of soil exists, thoroughly trench and
prepare it as for outdoor Peas. Select a tall-growing variety, of which there are a number
that do well under glass. Sow in a triple row, placing the seeds about three inches apart each
way, and in due course support the plants with stakes. A cool greenhouse or a frame will also
carry through an early crop of Peas, but for these structures pots should be used and only
dwarf-growing varieties sown. A ten-inch pot will accommodate about eight seeds, and these
should be planted one and a half inches deep. When a few inches high insert a few bushy stakes
to carry the plants. A compost consisting of two parts loam, one part leaf-soil or well-decayed
manure, with a small quantity of wood ashes, will suit Peas admirably. At no time is a forcing
temperature needed. From 50° to 55° at night, with a rise of about 10° by day will suffice,
and free ventilation must be given whenever possible with safety. Apply water carefully, but
never allow the roots to become dust-dry.

==Peas for Exhibition.==--On the exhibition table handsome well-grown Peas always elicit unstinted
admiration, and the magnificent pods of the newer varieties are certainly worthy of the utmost
praise bestowed upon them. In all cases where vegetables are grown for competition at Shows
the amount of success achieved depends largely on the intensity of the cultivation adopted,
and in this respect no other subject will respond more readily to liberal treatment than will
the Garden Pea. Deep digging, generous manuring, and copious watering during dry weather, in
the manner already described, are fundamental essentials. Another matter of no less importance
is the selection of suitable varieties. It is now the general custom to start the early sorts
in pots or boxes under glass (see page 104), and some growers treat mid-season Peas in the
same manner. Of this system it may be said that it offers the fullest opportunity of giving
attention to the young plants and allows of the strongest specimens being selected for transfer
to open quarters. The number of sowings will, of course, depend on individual requirements.
At the time of transplanting give each plant plenty of space for development, and it will be
well to stake the rows immediately. Keep the plants under constant observation, especially
while quite young, when they are liable to destruction by garden foes. The flowering should
be limited to the fourth spike, and from the time the pods appear assistance must be given
in the form of liquid manure or a mulching of well-rotted dung. Remove all lateral shoots and
promote vigorous healthy growth at every stage. Some means should be adopted to prevent injury
of any kind to the pods, which when gathered should be well filled, carrying a fine bloom free
from blemish.

==POTATO==

==Solarium tuberosum==

The potato has been designated the 'King of the Kitchen Garden,' and perhaps 'the noble tuber'
should be so regarded. Of its importance as an article of food it is impossible to speak too
highly, and the dietetic value of the Potato appears to be always advancing. The known deficiency
of flesh-forming constituents naturally associates this vegetable with meat of various kinds,
poultry, game and fish, and in this proper association the root is probably capable of superseding
all other vegetable foods, bread alone excepted. It is far from our intention to recommend
abstention from Asparagus, Cauliflower, Peas, and Sea Kale, and to regard Potatoes as a sufficient
substitute for these and other table delicacies; but it is well to remember that by virtue
of its starchy compounds the Potato has a direct tendency to promote health and that freshness
of complexion that generally prevails among well-fed people.

==Forcing Potatoes==.--The demand for new Potatoes exists long before the first of the outdoor
crops grown in this country can be lifted. To meet such a demand is not a difficult matter
where the necessary amount of glass is at command, and by adopting the method here given supplies
may be maintained through the winter and onwards until the first-earlies from the open ground
are available. It may be said at once that for culture in pots and boxes under glass a high
temperature is neither requisite nor desirable. Sturdy healthy growth is essential to the formation
of a crop of tubers, and if the plants be forced into an attenuated condition the labour will
have been in vain. Another matter which needs to be specially mentioned is the choice of suitable
varieties. Only dwarf-growing kinds, thoroughly adapted for forcing, should be considered.
The date of planting will necessarily be regulated by the time at which the crop is required.
But a few weeks in advance of planting, the sets should be sprouted by placing them on end
in shallow boxes, packed with damp light soil and stood near the light in a slightly warm pit
or house. When the sprouts are formed rub off all but the two strongest. Good turfy loam, a
small quantity of manure from a spent Mushroom bed, and a little bone meal, will make an excellent
compost for the pots or boxes. Two sets will suffice for a ten-inch or twelve-inch pot, or
five tubers may be placed in a box measuring about four feet long by one foot wide. Perfect
drainage must be insured. Plant the sets with care, taking up as much soil as possible with
the mass of fibrous roots which will have formed during the period of sprouting. The operation
may best be accomplished by only half filling the pots or boxes at first, and when the sets
are in position add a further two inches or so of soil. Water sparingly, especially at the
outset. As root growth increases add more soil and give the plants an occasional application
of tepid liquid manure. At all times avoid excessive heat, and if the crop can be finished
off gradually in a cool house so much the better.

Where sufficient accommodation cannot be found for forcing Potatoes in pots or boxes, an excellent
crop may be grown on a gentle hot-bed made up in the usual manner, and covered to a depth of
at least nine inches with a compost of three parts light loamy soil to one part leaf-mould.
After putting on the frame, keep the lights closed for a few days. But a great heat is not
wanted, and undue forcing at any stage will lead to disaster. Partially exhausted hot-beds
which have been used for other purposes will also be found to answer admirably. Prepare the
sets in the manner already advised for pots and boxes, and plant them with the least possible
disturbance to the fibrous roots, three inches deep, in rows fifteen inches apart, allowing
twelve inches between the tubers in the row. Whenever the weather is fine afford the plants
a little air. Increase the amount gradually as growth develops, but close the frames early
in the afternoon and give them the protection of mats at night should the outside temperature
be low. Water must be given in moderation. It should always be of the same temperature as the
frame, and as soon as the haulm commences to turn yellow watering must be discontinued. Little
earthing up is needed, but when the foliage is about nine inches high the addition of a small
quantity of warm soil along the rows will be beneficial.

==Early Potatoes== outdoors are produced in various ways, and by very simple appliances. The
Potato will not bear the slightest touch of frost. It is a sub-tropical plant, and will endure
considerable heat if at the same time it can enjoy light, air, and sufficient moisture. In
some respects it may be likened to the Lettuce, for if crowded or overheated, or subjected
to sudden checks, it bolts--in other words, it produces plenty of top and no bottom, just as
Lettuces similarly treated produce flowering stems and no hearts. We will here propose a very
simple and practical procedure for obtaining a nice crop of Potatoes in the month of June.
This system fairly mastered, endless modifications will be easily effected as circumstances
and judgment may suggest.

Begin by selecting an early variety of the best quality. Some time towards the end of January
the sets are packed closely in shallow boxes, one layer deep only, and these are placed in
full daylight safe from frost, but are not subjected to heat in any way. Having started the
sets into growth in full daylight, proceed with the preparation of the ground. This must be
light, warm, dry and rather rich without being rank. If a length of wall is available, and
perplexity arises concerning suitable soil for the early Potatoes, seize all the sandy loam
that has been turned out of pots, and having mixed it with as much leaf-mould and quite rotten
manure as can be spared, lay the mixture in a ridge at the foot of the wall. As walls do not
anywhere run in such lengths as to provide for all the early Potatoes that are wanted, select
a plot of ground lying warm and dry to the sun, and having spread over it a liberal allowance
of decayed manure, and any light fertilising stuff, such as the red and black residue from
the burning of hedge clippings, turf, and weeds, dig this in. The ground being ready, it is
lined out in neat ridges two feet apart, running north and south. These ridges must be shallow,
rising not more than six inches above the general level. On every fourth ridge sow early Peas
that are not likely to grow more than two and a half to three feet in height. This being done
in February, the land is ready for Potatoes in the first week of March. Plant on the fine stuff
laid up next the wall in the first instance, and then on the ridges, where there is room for
three rows of Potatoes between every two rows of Peas. In the process of planting, it will
be advisable to rub off all the weak eyes and thin out those on the crown, two or three strong
eyes being quite sufficient. This can easily be accomplished as the sets are laid into their
places in a shallow drill opened on the top of the ridge. The sets may be put a foot apart,
and have four inches of fine soil over them. Prick the ground over with a fork between the
rows, leaving it quite rough, but regular and workmanlike. The Peas will soon be visible and
require attention. Draw a little fine earth to them, and stake them carefully with small brushwood.
If snails and slugs appear, give dustings of lime or soot, and as soon as possible supply stakes
of sufficient height and strength to carry the crop. By the time the Potatoes begin to show
their shaws the Peas will constitute an effectual shelter for them against east winds, and
it will be found that the morning frosts that are often so injurious to Potatoes in the month
of May will scarcely touch a crop that has the advantage of this kind of protection. But to
that alone it is not wise to trust. One serious freezing that blackens the shaws will delay
and diminish the Potato crop. Therefore, as the green tops appear, cover them lightly with
fine earth from between the rows, and if necessary repeat this, always allowing the leaves
to see daylight. When a sharp frost occurs, it will be advisable to cover the tops with a few
inches of light dry litter in just the same way that a bed of Radishes is protected. There
are many other methods of saving the rising shaws. A plank on edge on the east side of a row
will suffice to tide through an ordinary white frost. Mats or reed hurdles laid on a few stout
pegs will also answer admirably, but care must be taken that the plant is not pressed down,
and the covering must be removed as soon as the danger is over.

Crops grown under walls will be ready first, and those in the beds will follow. Spaces between
the trees of a fruit wall may be planted with Potatoes, without injury to the trees. Those
grown on the south face of a good wall will be ready for table three weeks in advance of the
earliest crops in the open quarters. But east and west walls may be made to contribute, and
even north walls are useful, if planted a week later and a little deeper. In all cases the
sets should be put close to the wall to enjoy the warmth, and dryness, and shelter it affords.
When the crop is lifted, the soil specially laid up for it may be taken away, or scattered
over the border. But the bulk will be so slight that it will not matter much what becomes of
it. However, in a new place with a clay soil it may be prudent to remove it, and keep it ready
as an aid in seed sowing, for there are times and places where a little fine stuff is worth
a great deal to give a crop of some kind a proper start.

==The main crop==, as the source of supply for fully nine months out of twelve, deserves every
attention. Potatoes are grown with advantage on so many diverse soils, and in such unlikely
climates, that the plant appears, on a casual consideration, to be altogether indifferent to
its surroundings. But it is none the less true that for the profitable cultivation of this
crop certain conditions are absolutely essential. Among these an open situation and a well-drained
soil are perhaps the most important. To this might be added favourable weather, because a bad
season frustrates every hope and labour. Having an open situation and a well-drained soil,
it is much to be preferred that the soil be of a deep, friable, loamy nature; in other words,
a good medium soil, suitable for deep tillage, but neither a decided clay, chalk nor sand.
A fertile sandy loam, lying well as regards sunshine and drainage, may generally be considered
a first-rate Potato soil, and excellent crops have also been grown on thin soils overlying
chalk and limestone. So again, fine crops are often taken from poor sandy soils, and from newly-broken
bog and moss, as well as from clay lands that have had some amount of tillage to form a friable
top crust. But when all is said the fact remains that the ideal soil for Potatoes is a deep
mellow loam, and, failing this, preference should be given to calcareous and sandy soils rather
than to clays or retentive soils of any kind.

==Manures==.--Much prejudice prevails against manuring land for Potatoes, and where the soil
is good enough to yield a paying crop, it will be prudent to do without manure, and to dress
generously for the next crop to restore the land to a reasonable state. Still it is the practice
of many of the most successful growers for the early market to manure for this crop, and in
some instances the manure is laid in the trenches at the time of planting. Generally speaking,
land intended for Potatoes should be deeply dug, and, if needful, manured in the autumn. About
twenty to thirty cartloads of half-rotten manure per acre may be dug or ploughed in to as great
a depth as possible, consistent with the nature of the subsoil and the appliances at command.
In breaking up pasture with the spade, bastard trenching will as a rule prove advantageous.
The land is lined off in two-feet breadths, and the top spit of the first piece is removed
to the last piece, which will often be close at hand by the rule of working a certain distance
down and back again. The under spit will then be well broken up, the manure thrown in, and
the top spit of the next piece will be turned in turf downwards, making a sandwich of the manure.
If this is done in autumn, there will be a mellow top crust produced by the spring, and the
best way to plant will be in trenches, unless the land is very light, in which case the dibber
may be used.

As light lands are often profitably devoted to Potato culture, and more especially to the production
of first-class early Potatoes for the markets, a few words on their management may be useful
here. If on the light land there is a choice of aspects, by all means select the plots that
slope to the south-west; the dangerous aspects are north and east. The ground should be ploughed
up in autumn and left rough, but it is not economical to manure light lands in autumn. At the
time of planting, the furrows should be cut with a plough fitted with a double mould-board,
and the manure spread evenly along them previous to laying in the sets. A good dressing per
acre will consist of fifteen loads of farmyard manure, and four cwt. of artificials, consisting
of one and a half cwt. of guano, two cwt. of superphosphate of lime, and half a cwt. of muriate
of potash. When the sets are laid, cover them by splitting the ridges with the plough. If planted
early in March, the crop should come off in time for Turnips, for which the land will be in
good heart, and the seed should be sown as quickly as possible after the clearing of the Potatoes.

==Preparing the Sets.==--Among the many subjects that open out before us at this point are
the selection and preparation of the sets. Why are smallish tubers chosen in one case and planted
whole? and why, in another case, are large tubers chosen and divided before planting, to make
two or more sets of each? Because there is a principle on which sound practice rests, and it
is this: the number of shoots starting from any one growing point must be limited, for if they
become crowded the crop will be less than the land is capable of producing. Keeping this principle
in view, we proceed to remark, in the first place, that carefully selected seed of moderate
size may be planted as it comes from the store without any preparation whatever, and with a
fair prospect of a profitable result. But certain varieties produce few tubers of seed size,
and when large they must be divided in such a manner as to insure at least two eyes in each
set. As a matter of fact, profitable crops are grown in the most simple way; the seed is neither
sprouted nor disbudded, and with a well-made soil and a favourable season, the return is ample,
and all claims are satisfied. Potato-growing entails much labour, therefore it is important
to distinguish between tasks that are necessary and those that are optional.

But where the time and strength can be found for first-class cultivation, it should have the
preference over the rough and ready methods that are satisfactory on a large scale. Exhibitions
of Potatoes are for the most part sustained by persons who can find the time to do things with
extra care, and they have their reward in their crops as well as in their prizes, for what
may be styled Exhibition culture consists simply in growing the crop in the best possible way,
and planting many sorts where in any other case a few would suffice. Here, then, on the best
plan, we begin with sets most carefully selected, to insure true typical form and colour, and
these are, some six weeks or so before planting time, put in shallow boxes or baskets, one
layer deep, to sprout in full daylight, but quite safe from frost. In the first instance a
number of sprouts appear, and a large proportion are rubbed off. The object of the cultivator
is to secure two or three stout, short shoots of a green or purple colour; the long white threads
that are often produced in the store being regarded as useless. When large sets are employed,
they are allowed to make three or four stout shoots, and at the time of planting--not before--these
sets are cut so as to leave to each large piece only one or two good sprouts or sprits. As
for the smaller sets that are not to be divided, it is common practice to cut a small piece
off each of these at the time of planting to facilitate the decay of the tuber when it has
accomplished its work, for having nourished the first growth the sooner it disappears the better.
Thus, with a little extra trouble, sound tubers have been prepared for planting, and the main
reasons for taking this extra trouble are doubtless fully apparent. The best seed possible
is wanted and the most suitable soil; these two items forming the first chapter. By sprouting
the seed time is gained, which is equivalent to a lengthening of the season. By limiting the
number of shoots an excess of foliage is prevented. Where the shoots are crowded the tubers
will not be crowded, a few strong shaws with all their leaves exposed to the air and light
being capable of producing better results than a large number contending for air and light
that are insufficient for them all. And finally, by cutting the sets, whether to divide them,
or simply to hasten their decay, we insure that they will not reappear with the young crop
as useless, ugly things.

==Distances for Planting==.--The distance at which the sets are planted is of importance, for
a crop too crowded will be of little value. But the ground must be properly filled. By wasting
only a small space in each breadth, or in the spaces between the sets, the total crop will
be many bushels short of the possible quantity. The guiding principle must be to allow to each
plant ample room to spread, and absorb the air and sunshine, in accordance with the character
of the sort and the condition of the soil. A considerable proportion of the losses from disease
may be traced to overcrowding in the first instance; the tangled haulm being rendered weak
through want of air, and then becoming loaded with water, and in contact with wet ground, the
disease has made havoc where, had the management been founded on sound principles, there might
have been a vigorous healthy growth. If a doubt arises, it is safer to allow too much rather
than too little space, and in this respect the exhibition growers are very liberal. They often
place the rows of strong-growing varieties four feet or more apart, and allow a space of three
and a half feet for the more moderate growers. Even then, with good land, in a high state of
preparation, the shaws sometimes meet across the rows, and enormous crops are lifted. For a
very comprehensive rule, it may be said that the distance between the rows may vary from fifteen
inches for the early sorts of dwarf growth, to forty inches for the vigorous-growing late sorts.
Between these measurements, for varieties producing medium haulm, a distance of twenty-six
to thirty-six inches may be allowed on good ground. The distance between the sets must in like
manner be determined by the growth, and will range from nine inches for crops to be dug early,
to sixteen or twenty inches for the robust kinds. The medium maincrop Potatoes will generally
do well at twelve inches apart. Much, however, depends on the season, for when great space
is allowed, and the season proves warm and showery, there will be more large tubers than the
grower will care for; whereas, if planted somewhat closer, the crop would be smaller and more
uniform in size. When planted, the tops of the tubers should be about four inches below the
surface.

==Time of Planting==.--Under favourable conditions, it is possible to plant on a warm dry border
as early as mid-February in very sheltered districts, but a supply of protecting material must
be instantly available in the event of severe weather. As a rule, however, the opening of March
is soon enough to plant early crops out of doors, always provided that the soil is light and
the situation warm, but where these conditions do not exist it will be safer to wait until
the middle of the month. Maincrops may be got in at the end of March and during April, according
to the locality and the character of the soil. In any case, it is better to defer the operation
for a week or so than to plant in heavy wet ground which quickly consolidates, making it impervious
to air and unsuitable for root-penetration. Excellent crops may also be obtained by planting
in July, preference being given to quick-growing early varieties. Old tubers only should be
used and these must be carefully stored until required for planting.

==Method of Planting.==--On light soils, in a sufficiently dry condition, the dibber or planting
stick may be used, but on heavy ground it is not satisfactory. A good method of planting for
all classes of soil is to draw out a V-shaped drill of the requisite depth, place the sets
into position and lightly return the earth. Another plan which is largely adopted is to insert
the sets in the trenches as made during the operation of digging the ground in spring, a garden
line being used to obtain the accurate alignment of the rows.

==General Cultivation.==--As soon as the shaws appear the ground should be hoed between the
rows, and if there is any fear of frost the shaws should be lightly moulded over. As the growth
advances the crop must be earthed up, care being exercised not to earth up too much, for, taking
six inches as the best average depth, the crop will be diminished by an increase beyond this
depth. One urgent reason for early work between the rows is that a prosperous crop will soon
put a stop to it. The moment it becomes likely that the shaws will be bruised by traffic between
the rows they must be left to finish their course in their own way, because the formation of
tubers below will be in the ratio of the healthy growth above ground. The Potato may be said
to be manufactured out of sunshine and alkaline salts. The green leaves constitute the machinery
of the manufacture, for which the solar light from above, and the potash, phosphate of lime,
phosphate of magnesia, and phosphoric acid from below are the raw materials.

==Change of Ground and Seed.==--In common with all other crops, the Potato needs as often as
possible a fresh soil, and a renewal of seed from some distant source. The need for a change
of soil is made apparent by an analysis of the root, which contains large proportions of potash,
phosphorus, and sulphur, with smaller proportions of magnesia and lime, without which the plant
cannot prosper. A succession of heavy crops of Potatoes on the same land may be said to take
from the soil its available potash and phosphates, and this crop will not, like some others,
take soda instead of potash when the last-named alkali runs short. Here then is a chemical
reason for change of soil. Another reason is found in the history of the species of fungi that
prey on the Potato when its growth is checked by heavy rains and a low temperature. These leave
their spores in the soil, like wolves hiding in ambush, to destroy the next crop. They are
powerless to attack any other crop; therefore a suitable rotation gives them time to die out
and leave the land clean as regards the =Phytophthora= and other parasites that destroy Potato
crops. The necessity for an occasional change of seed rests on old experience, and should scarcely
need enforcing. One word may be said here by way of explanation, and it is this: the seed house
that aims to put a good article in the market adopts measures which altogether differ from
those followed by the majority of persons who have not been trained to the business. It is
a common experience to find that those who save their own seed from year to year have as a
result a constantly declining strain, so that every year the growth is weaker, less true, and
less profitable. It is so all through, but is especially the case with Potatoes. We do not
say that all who save their own seed act unwisely, for some are most expert in the business.
But we do say that seed saving is not learned in a day, and many who think they save shillings
when they save seeds, actually lose pounds by burdening themselves with a bad article. The
art of 'roguing'--the elimination of plants which are untrue to type--is but one part of the
seed-saving process. There is the proper storing, the selecting and sorting operations, to
which eyes and hands must be trained, and there must be no scruple about the sacrifice of false,
immature or diseased samples. The point we have in view is to advise the Potato grower to be
sure of his seed, and when a doubt arises as to the purity and healthiness of the sample at
command, it may be remembered that the seed merchant practises methods of purgation for insuring
perfectly true stocks, while by growing in many different districts, and on diverse soils,
he can furnish an admirable change of seed for any description of land.

==The Potato Disease.==--The culture of Potatoes cannot be dismissed without allusion to the
destructive fungus which is never absent in dry seasons, and in wet summers does its deadly
work on a vast scale. Scientific men have acquainted us with the history of the Potato fungus,
and this may eventually result in as efficient a remedy as that which renewed the vineyards
of France. Such a remedy for the Potato murrain has yet to be discovered. Meanwhile, we must
continue to resist the foe with the plough, spade, draining tool, and above all with a wise
selection of sorts. It is an acknowledged fact that many Potatoes that have been cultivated
for a long time appear to have lost their vigour, and are liable to succumb to the disease;
but several kinds that have been raised from seed in recent years possess a constitution which
almost defies the virulent assaults of the =Phytophthora infestans=. Since the introduction
of Sutton's Magnum Bonum Potato there has been a disposition to believe in 'Disease-proof Potatoes.'
There is no such thing absolutely, and perhaps there never will be, any more than there is
a disease-proof wheat, or dog, or horse, or man. But some varieties of Potatoes are known to
be more susceptible to the ravages of disease than others, and it has been one of our aims
to secure seedlings which combine the highest cropping and table qualities with the least tendency
to succumb in seasons when conditions favour the spread of the fungus. Scientific men have
not yet explained why the varieties differ in this respect, but practical men have discovered
that initial vigour of growth is the main defence against the plague, and as the growing of
a good Potato costs no more than the growing of a poor variety, the cultivator should bestow
his care on the very best he can obtain. A little extra cost for seed in the first instance
is as nothing to the multiplied chances of success a good variety carries with it. To sum up
this subject, then, we say that disease may be avoided in the early crops by cultivating sorts
which may be lifted before the plague generally appears; and on soils which will not produce
an early crop, only such varieties should be grown for the main crops as have been proved to
be most capable of standing uninjured until late in the season. Let there be a dry, warm bed,
sufficient food, the fullest exposure to the life-giving powers of light, and conditions favourable
to early ripening.

==The Wart Disease (Black Scab) of Potatoes== (=Synchytrium endobioticum=, Percival) is dealt
with in the chapter on 'The Fungus Pests of certain Garden Plants.'

==PUMPKIN==--=see= ==GOURD==, =page 63=

==RADISH==

==Raphanus sativus==

The Radish is often badly grown through being sown too thickly, or on lumpy ground, or in places
not favourable to quick vegetation. Radishes grown slowly become tough, pungent and worthless.
On the other hand, those which are grown quickly on rich, mellow ground are attractive in appearance,
delicate in flavour, and as digestible as any salad in common use. It should be understood
that earliness is of the very first importance, and that large Radishes are never wanted. To
insure a quick growth and a handsome sample the ground must not only be good, but finely broken up.

==Frame Culture.==--For the earliest crops it is advisable to make a semi-hot-bed, by removing
a portion of the surface soil, and laying down about two-feet depth of half-rotten stable manure,
on which spread four inches of fine earth, and then cover with frames. Sow the seed thinly,
and put on the lights. When the plants appear, give air at every opportunity to keep the growth
dwarf, and cover with mats during frost, always taking care to uncover as often as possible
to give light, for if the tops are drawn the roots will be of little account. Where the plants
are crowded, thin them, allowing every plant just room enough to spread out its top without
overlapping its neighbour. Sowings made in this way in December, January, and February will
supply an abundance of beautiful Radishes in early spring, when they are greatly valued. To
follow the outdoor crops frame culture will again be necessary in autumn.

==Outdoor Culture.==--The second crop (which in many gardens will be the first) may be sown
on warm, dry borders in February. Within a few days after sowing, collect a quantity of dry
litter, and lay it up in a shed ready for use. It happens often that we have warm, bright weather
in February, and the Radishes start quickly and make good progress, and then may come a severe
frost, when the litter must be spread as lightly as possible, three or four inches thick. These
open-ground sowings will bear cold well, but they should not be allowed to get frozen, and
therefore semi-hot-beds may be employed. If time and materials appear excessive for such a
purpose, it should be remembered that this is a capital way of preparing for the next crop,
whatever it may be, and is a particularly good method of preparing for Peas that are to be
sown in the month of April, by which time the earliest sown Radishes will be off the ground.
Successive sowings should be made from March to September in the coolest place that can be
found for them, and the usual practice of four-feet beds will answer very well. In many gardens
sufficient supplies of Radishes are obtained by sowing in the alleys between seed-beds, but
care must be taken that this plan does not interfere with the proper work of hoeing, weeding,
thinning, &c. When seed is sown on light soils a moderate firming with the back of the spade
may be desirable, but generally speaking it is sufficient to cover the seed lightly, and so
leave it. To thin the crop early is, however, of great importance, no matter how wasteful the
process may seem, for wherever the plants are crowded they will make large useless tops, and
small worthless roots, and prove altogether unprofitable. For the earliest sowings we have
choice of many sorts, round, oval, and long; but the long Radishes are not well adapted for
late sowing, whereas the round and oval sorts stand pretty well in hot weather, if on good
ground in a cool situation, with the help of a slight amount of shade. As the year advances
we return to the practice recommended for the earliest crops.

==Winter Radishes==.--These large-growing kinds are much prized by those who use them in winter
in the preparation of salads. Seed may be sown in the open from June to August, in drills nine
inches apart, and the plants thinned to six inches in the rows. The roots may be left in the
ground and dug as required, or taken up and stored in sand. These Radishes may also be cooked
in the same manner as Turnips and they make an excellent dish.

==RHUBARB==

==Rheum hybridum==

RHUBARB is so much valued that we need not recommend it. There are some remarkably fine sorts
in cultivation, adapted for early work, main-crop, and late use.

Although an accommodating plant, Rhubarb requires for profitable production a rich deep soil,
well worked, and heavily dressed with rotten manure, and a situation remote from trees, but
in some degree sheltered. It will be observed that the markets are supplied from sheltered
alluvial soils, that have been much cultivated, and kept in high condition by abundant manuring.
On the other hand, the coarser kinds will make a free and early growth on a damp clay, if sheltered
from the east winds that so often damage early spring vegetation. The shortest way to establish
a plantation is to purchase selected roots of first-class named varieties, and plant them in
one long row, three to four feet apart, or in a bed or compartment four feet apart each way.
The smaller kinds will do very well at two and a half feet each way, but for large-growing
sorts this would be injuriously close. Plant with the top bud two inches deep, tread in moderately
firm, then lightly prick the ground over, and so leave it. Rhubarb may be planted at any time
in spring or autumn but of the two the spring is preferable. In any case where a special cultivation
is determined on, it will be found that bone manure has a wonderful effect on the growth of
Rhubarb.

It is not sufficient to say that the plantation must be kept free from weeds, but the plant
should be allowed to make one whole season's growth before a single stalk is pulled. And the
pulling in the second season, and every season thereafter, should be moderate and careful,
for every leaf removed weakens the plant, and it must be allowed-time to regain strength for
the next season. Some people know not when to leave off pulling Rhubarb, but appear unwilling
to cease until there is none to pull; and it is a pity this should happen, especially as after
the delicate supplies of early spring are past, Rhubarb is a comparatively poor thing, and
to ruin a plantation to get stalks for wine is great folly. For wine-making a special plantation
should be made, from which not one stick should be taken for table use. The summer stalks will
then be of a suitable character.

Rhubarb is easily forced in any place where there is a moderate warmth, and it is only needful
to pack the roots in boxes with moss or any light soil, or even rough litter. The roots will
push into any moist material and find sufficient food. If entirely exposed to the light, forced
Rhubarb has a full colour; but the quality is better, and the colour quite sufficient, if it
is forced in the dark; hence when put under the stage in a greenhouse, or any other place where
there is a fair share of daylight, it is well to put an empty box or barrel over to promote
a certain degree of blanching.

When raising Rhubarb from seed sow in spring in light soil, and the young plants should have
frame culture until strong enough to plant out. If a great number are grown, they should all
be kept in pots until the end of the season, and then the common-looking and unpromising plants
should be destroyed, reserving the others for planting out in the following spring. A new type
of Rhubarb which is readily raised from seed will remain in bearing continuously if put out
on good ground and given protection during severe winter weather. Seed of this strain should
be sown in March or April, in pots or boxes placed in a cold frame. Plant out the seedlings
in May and these will generally yield sticks in the autumn. Seed may also be sown in the open
ground in spring.

==SALADS==

Although the art of making Salads is to some extent understood in this country, it must be
admitted that much has yet to be learned from the masters of Continental cookery, who utilise
more plants than are commonly used on this side of the Channel, and who impart to their Salads
an endless variety of flavourings. Here, however, we are only concerned with the plants that
are, or should be, in requisition for the Salad-bowl at different seasons of the year. But
it will not be irrelevant to allude to the fact, admitted by medical men of high reputation,
that the appetite for fresh, crisp, uncooked vegetables is a really healthy craving, and that
free indulgence in Salads is a means of supplying the human frame with important elements of
plant-life. In the process of cooking, certain minerals, such as salts of potash, are abstracted
from vegetables, while in Salads they are available, and contribute both to the enjoyment and
the benefit of the consumer.

Our present object is to offer a reminder of the plants that must be grown in order to supply
such a variety of Salads as will fairly meet the requirements of a generous table during the
changing seasons of the year. The culture of all the following subjects will be found under
their proper headings.

==Beet.==--For its distinct flavour and splendid colour Beet is highly valued as a component
of Salads. As the roots are easily stored they are available for several months after the growing
season has passed.

==Celeriac== is much used in French Salads, and some appreciation is now shown for it in this
country. The roots or bulbs are trimmed, washed, and cooked in the same manner as Beet.

==Celery.==--This delicious Salad is in such general favour that no comment on its virtues
is necessary.

==Chervil.==--The curled is far handsomer than the common variety, and is available for garnishing
as well as for Salads.

==Chicory.==--The common Chicory (=Barbe de Capucin=) and the Brussels variety (=Witloof=)
have attained to great popularity. Both are agreeable and wholesome, and a supply should be
maintained from October to May.

==Chives== find acceptance at times when the stronger flavour of Onion is inadmissible.

==Corn Salad.==--The leaves should be gathered separately in the same manner as they are collected
from Spinach.

==Cress== should be in continual readiness almost or entirely through the year.

==Cucumber.==--Everybody appreciates the value of this fruit, which is almost startling in
its crisp coolness.

==Dandelion.==--The cultivated forms of this familiar plant are increasingly grown for use
in the Salad-bowl.

==Endive== has a distinct flavour which is highly appreciated; and in winter the plant occupies
the important position that Lettuce fills in summer and autumn.

==Lettuce.==--All the Cabbage varieties are in great demand for Salads, because they readily
assimilate the dressing. But for delicious crispness the Cos varieties cannot fail to maintain
their position of assured popularity.

==Mustard== needs only to be named. Like Cress, it is in continuous demand.

==Nasturtium.==--A few flowers may always be employed to garnish a Salad, for they are true
Salad plants, and may be eaten with safety by those who choose to eat them.

==Onion== imparts life to every Salad that contains it; but for the sake of the modest people
who do not fail to appreciate the advantage of its presence, although they scruple to avow
their love, there must be discretion in determining the proportion.

==Purslane.==--The leaves and shoots are used for Salads, and the former should be gathered
while quite young.

==Radish== finds a place on the tables of the opulent and of the humblest cottager.

==Rampion.==--The fleshy roots are employed in Salads in the natural state, and also when cooked.

==Salsify== is commonly known as 'Vegetable Oyster,' and is an excellent component of a Salad.
The roots may also be allowed to put forth leaves in the dark to furnish blanched material.

==Shallot.==--A delicate substitute for Onion.

==Sorrel== possesses a piquant flavour that can be used by the skilful with most agreeable results.

==Tomato== has fought its way to popularity in this country, and now holds a commanding position.

==Water Cress.==--When the tender tops can be had they are seldom allowed to be absent from
first-class Salads.

==SALSIFY==

==Tragopogon porrifolius==

Salsify may be sown from the end of March to May, but two sowings will in most cases be sufficient.
Drill the seed in rows fifteen inches apart and one inch deep. Thin from time to time until
the plants stand nine, ten, or in an extreme case twelve, inches apart. In ordinary soil nine
inches will be sufficient. Hoe between frequently, but do not use a fork or spade anywhere
near the crop, for the loosening of the ground will cause the roots to branch.

A deep sandy soil with a coat of manure put in the bottom of the trench will produce fine roots
of Salsify. But there should be no recent manure within fifteen inches of the surface, or the
roots will be forked and ugly. In a soil that produces handsome roots naturally the preparation
may consist in a good digging only, but generally speaking the more liberal routine will give
a better result.

In November dig a portion of the crop and store in sand, and lift further supplies as required.
Some roots may be left to furnish Chards in spring. These are the flowering-shoots which rise
green and tender, and must be cut when not more than five or six inches long. They are dressed
and served in the same way as Asparagus.

