August 1st. Hella is rather cross with me because I wrote and told her that I had spent the
whole day with the W's. Still, she is really my only friend or I should not have written and
told her. Every year in the country she has another friend too, but that doesn't put me out.
I can't understand why she doesn't like Robert; she doesn't know anything about him except
what I have written and certainly that was nothing but good. Of course she does know him for
he is a cousin of the Sernigs and she met him once there. But one does not get to know a person
from seeing them once. Anyhow she does not know him the way I do. Yesterday I was with the
Warths all day. We played Place for the King and Robert caught me and I had to give him a kiss.
And Erna said, that doesn't count, for I had let myself be caught. But Robert got savage and
said: Erna is a perfect nuisance, she spoils everyone's pleasure. He's quite right, but there's
some one else just as bad. But I do hope Erna has not told Dora about the kiss. If she has
everyone will know and I shouldn't like that. I lay in wait for Erna with the sweets which
Aunt Dora sent us. Robert and Liesel and I ate the rest. They were so good and nearly all large
ones. At first Robert wanted to take quite a little one, but I said he must only have a big
one. After that he always picked out the big ones. When I came home in the evening with the
empty box Father laughed and said: There's nothing mean about our Gretel. Besides, Mother still
has a great box full; I have no idea whether Dora still has a lot, but I expect so.

August 2nd. Oswald arrived this afternoon at 5. He's a great swell now; he's begun to grow
a moustache. In the evening Father took him to the hotel to introduce him to some friends.
He said it would be an awful bore, but he will certainly make a good impression especially
in his new tourist getup and leather breeches. Grandmama and Grandpapa sent love to all. I've
never seen them. They have sent a lot of cakes and sweets and Oswald grumbled no end because
he had to bring them. Oswald is always smoking cigarettes and Father said to him: Come along
old chap, we'll go to the inn and have a drink on the strength of your good report. It seems
to me rather funny; no one wants to drink anything when Dora and I have a good report, at most
they give us a present. Oswald has only Twos and Threes and very few Ones and in Greek nothing
but Satisfactory, but I have nothing but Ones. He said something to Father in Latin and Father
laughed heartily and said something I could not understand. I don't think it was Latin, but
it may have been Magyar or English. Father knows nearly all languages, even Czech, but thank
goodness he doesn't talk them unless he wants to tease us. Like that time at the station when
Dora and I were so ashamed. Czech is horrid, Mother says so too. When Robert pretends to speak
Czech it's screamingly funny.

