We had taken up our observation-posts; it was still dark. From our height we saw the tremendous
flare and, at daybreak, the charming village, sheltering in the valley, was nothing but smoke.
This, in the silvery nimbus of a glorious morning.

From our mouse-trap we had looked to the distance with its prettily winding road, its willow-bordered
stream, its Calvary: all this harmony to end in the horror of destruction.

The Germans had set fire to it by hand in the night; they had been dislodged from it after
two nights of fierce fighting: their action may be interpreted as an intention to retreat at
this point. This proceeding, generally detested by our soldiers, is, I think, forced by strategic
necessity. When a village is destroyed it is very difficult for us in the rear to make any
kind of use of it. All day we have been witnessing this devastation, while above our heads
the little field-mice are taking advantage of the straw in which we are to sleep.

Our existence, as infantry, is a little like that of rabbits in the shooting season. The more
knowing of us, at any rate, are perpetually on the look-out for a hole. As soon as we are buried
in it, we are ordered not to move again. These wise orders are unfortunately not always given
with discrimination; thus, yesterday there were four of us in an advance-trench situated in
a magnificent spot and perfectly hidden beneath leaves. We should have been able to delight
in the landscape but for the good corporal, who was afraid to allow us even a little enjoyment
of life. Later the artillery came up with a tremendous din and showed us the use of these superlative
precautions.

None the less, I have been able to enjoy the landscape--alas! a scene of smoke and tragedy
yesterday. Be sure, beloved mother, that I do not wish to commit a single imprudence, but certainly
this war is the triumph of Fate, of Providence and Destiny.

I pray ardently to deserve the grace of return, but apart from a few moments of only human
impatience, I can say that the greater part of my being is given up to resignation.

November 10, 11 o'clock.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--What shall I say to you to-day--a day monotonous with fog. Occupations
that are stupefying, not in themselves, but because of the insipid companionship. I fall back
on myself. Yesterday I wrote you a long letter, telling you among other things how dear your
letters are to me. When I began to write on this sheet I was a little weary and troubled, but
now that I am with you I become happy, and I immediately remember whatever good fortune this
day has brought me.

This morning the lieutenant sent me to get some wire from headquarters, in a devastated village
which we have surrounded for six weeks. I went down through the orchards full of the last fallen
plums. A few careless soldiers were gathering them up into baskets. A charming scene, purely
pastoral and bucolic, in spite of the red trousers--very faded after three months' campaign. . . .

I am happy in the affection of Ch---- R----. His is a nature according in all its elements
with my own. I am sure that he will not be cross with me for not writing, especially if you
give a kind message from me to his wife.

The little task confided to me meant walking from nightfall until nine o'clock, but I occasionally
lay down in a shelter or in a barn instead of getting back to the trenches for the night.

I do not have good nights of reading now, but sometimes when S---- and I are lying side by
side in the trench, you would not believe what a mirage we evoke and what joy we have in stirred-up
memories. Ah, how science and intellectual phenomena lead us into a very heaven of legends,
and what pleasure I get from the marvellous history of this metal, or that acid! For me the
thousand and one nights are renewing themselves. And then at waking, sometimes, the blessing
of a dawn. That is the life I have led since the 13th or 14th of October. I ask for nothing,
I am content that in such a war we should have relatively a great deal of calm.

You cannot imagine what a consolation it is to know that you give your heart to what concerns
me. What pleasure I have in imagining you interested in my books, looking at my engravings!. . .

November 12, 3 o'clock.

. . . To-day we have had a march as pleasant as the first one, in weather of great beauty.
We saw, in the blue and rosy distance, the far-off peak of the Metz hills, and the immense
panorama scattered over with villages, some of which gathered up the morning light, while others
were merely suggested.

This is the broad outline of our existence: for three days we stay close to the enemy, living
in well-constructed shelters which are improved each time; then we spend three days a little
way back; and then three days in billets in a neighbouring village, generally the same. We
even gradually form habits--very passing ones, but still, we have a certain amount of contact
with the civil population which has been so sorely tried. The woollen things are very effectual
and precious.

. . . We have good people to deal with. The dear woman from whose dwelling I write to you,
and with whom I stayed before, wears herself to death to give us a little of what reminds us
of home.

But, dear mother, what reminds me of home is here in my heart. It is not eating on plates or
sitting on a chair that counts. It is your love, which I feel so near. . . .

November 14.

Since half-past eight on the evening of the 12th we have been dragged about from place to place
in the prospect of our taking part in a violent movement. We left at night, and in the calm
of nature my thoughts cleared themselves a little, after the two days in billets during which
one becomes a little too material. Our reinforcement went up by stealth. We awaited our orders
in a barn, where we slept on the floor. Then we filed into the woods and fields, which the
day, breaking through grey, red, and purple clouds, slowly lit up, in surroundings the most
romantic and pathetic that could be imagined. In the full daylight of a charming morning we
learnt that the troops ahead of us had inflicted enormous losses on the enemy, and had even
made a very slight advance. We then returned to our usual posts, and here I am again, beholding
once more the splendour of the French country, so touching in this grey, windy, and impassioned
November, with sunshine thrown in patches upon infinite horizons.

Dear mother, how beautiful it is, this region of spacious dignity, where all is noble and proportioned,
where outlines are so beautifully defined!--the road bordered with trees diminishing towards
the frontier, hills, and beyond them misty heights which one guesses to be the German Vosges.
There is the scenery, and here is something better than the scenery. There is a Beethoven melody
and a piece by Liszt called 'Bénédiction de Dieu dans la solitude.' Certainly we have no solitude,
but if you turn the pages of Albert Samain's poems you will find an aphorism by Villiers de
l'Isle-Adam: 'Know that there will always be solitude on earth for those who are worthy of
it.' This solitude of a soul that can ignore all that is not in tune with it. . . .

I have had two letters from you, of the 6th and 7th. Perhaps this evening I shall have another.
Do not let us allow our courage to be concerned only with the waiting for letters from each
other. But the letters are our life, they are what bring us our joys, our happiness, it is
through them that we take delight in the sights of this world and of this time.

If your eyes are not strong, that is a reason for not writing, but apart from your health do
not by depriving me of letters hold back your heart from me.

November 14 (2nd letter).

DEAR MOTHER WHOM I LOVE,--Here we are again in our usual billet, and my heart is full of thoughts
all tending towards you. I cannot tell you all that I feel in every moment, yet how much I
should like to share with you the many pleasures that come one by one even in this monotonous
life of ours, as a broken thread drops its pearls.

I should like to be able to admire with you this lovely cloud, this stretch of country which
so fills us with reverence, to listen with you to the poetry of the wind from beyond the mountain,
as when we walked together at Boulogne. But here a great many prosaic occupations prevent me
from speaking to you as I feel.

I sent you with my baggage my note-book from August 18 to October 20.[2] These notes were made
when we could easily get at our light bags, in the calm of our trench-days, when our danger
stopped our chattering, and I could let my heart speak. I found a happiness more intense, wider
and fuller, to write to you about. That was a time of paradise for me. But I don't like the
billets, because the comfort and the security, relaxing our minds, bring about a great deal
of uproar which I don't like. You know how much I have always needed quiet and solitude. Still,
I have excellent friends, and the officers are very kind.

But with a little patience and a few thoughts about you I can be happy. How kind this first
half of November has been! I have not suffered once from cold. And how lovely it was! That
All Saints' Day was nothing but a long hymn--from the night, with its pure moonlight on the
dark amber of the autumn trees, to the tender twilight. The immense rosy dream of this misty
plain, stretching out towards the near hills. . . . What a song of praise! and many days since
then have sung the glory of God. Coeli ennarrant. . . .

That is what those days brought to me.

[Footnote 2: Part of this note-book has already been given.]

November 15, 7 o'clock.

Yesterday the wild weather, fine to see from the shelter of our billet, brought me apprehensions
for to-night's departure, but when I woke the sky was the purest and starriest that one could
dream of! How grateful I felt!

What we fear most is the rain, which penetrates through everything when we are without fire
or shelter. The cold is nothing--we are armed against it beforehand.

. . . In spite of all, how much I appreciated the sight of this vast plain upon which we descended,
lashed by the great wind. Above the low horizon was the wide grey sky in which, here and there,
pale rents recalled the vanished blue.--A black, tragic Calvary in silhouette--then some skeleton
trees! What a place! This is where I can think of you, and of my beloved music. To-day I have
the atmosphere that I want.

. . . I should like to define the form of my conviction of better things in the near future,
resulting from this war. These events prepare the way to a new life: that of the United States
of Europe.

After the conflict, those who will have completely and filially fulfilled their obligation
to their country will find themselves confronted by duties yet more grave, and the realisation
of things that are now impossible. Then will be the time for them to throw their efforts into
the future. They must use their energies to wipe out the trace of the shattering contact of
nations. The French Revolution, notwithstanding its mistakes, notwithstanding some backsliding
in practice, some failure in construction, did none the less establish in man's soul this fine
theory of national unity. Well! the horrors of the 1914 war lead to the unity of Europe, to
the unity of the race. This new state will not be established without blows and spoliation
and strife for an indefinite time, but without doubt the door is now open towards the new horizon.

To Madame C----.

November 16.

MY DEAR FRIEND,--How much pleasure and comfort your letter gives me, and how your warm friendship
sustains my courage!

What you say to me about my mother binds me closer to existence. Thank you for your splendid
and constant affection.

. . . What shall I tell you of my life? Through the weariness and the vicissitudes I am upheld
by the contemplation of Nature which for two months has been accumulating the emotion and the
pathos of this impassioned season. One of my habitual stations is on the heights which overlook
the immense Woëvre plain. How beautiful it is! and what a blessing to follow, each hour of
the day and evening, the kindling colours of the autumn leaves! This frightful human uproar
cannot succeed in troubling the majestic serenity of Nature! There are moments when man seems
to go beyond anything that could be imagined; but a soul that is prepared can soon perceive
the harmony which overlooks and reconciles all this dissonance. Do not think that I remain
insensible to the agony of scenes that we behold all too often: villages wiped out by the artillery
that is hurled upon them; smoke by day, light by night; the misery of a flying population under
shell-fire. Each instant brings some shock straight to one's heart. That is why I take refuge
in this high consolation, because without some discipline of the heart I could not suffer thus
and not be undone.

November 17, in the morning.

DEAR MOTHER,-- . . . I write to you in the happiness of the dawn over my dear village. The
night, which began with rain, has brought us again a pure and glorious sky. I see once more
my distant horizons, my peaked hills, the harmonious lines of my valleys. From this height
where I stand who would guess that agricultural and peaceful village to be in reality nothing
but a heap of ruins, in which not a house is spared, and in which no human being can survive
the hell of artillery!

As I write, the sun falls upon the belfry which I see framed in the still sombre tree close
beside me, while far away, beneath the last hills, the last swelling of the ground, the plain
begins to reveal its precious detail in the rosy and golden atmosphere.

November 17, 11 o'clock.

The splendid weather is my great consolation. I live rather like an invalid sent to some magnificent
country, whom the treatment compels to unpleasant and fatiguing occupations. Between Leysin
and the trench where I am at present there has been only uncertainty. Nothing new has happened
to our company since October 13.

This is a strange kind of war. It is like that between neighbours on bad terms. Consider that
some of the trenches are separated from the enemy by hardly 100 metres, and that the combatants
fling projectiles across with their hands: you see that these neighbours make use of violent
methods.

As for me, I really live only when I am with you, and when I feel the splendour of the surroundings.

Even in the middle of conversations, I am able to preserve the sensation of solitude of thought
which is necessary to me.

November 18.

This morning, daylight showed us a country covered with hoar-frost, a universal whiteness over
hills and forest. My little village looks thoroughly chilled.

I had spent the greater part of the night in a warm shelter, and I could have stayed there,
thanks to the kindness of my superiors, but I am foolish and timid, and I rejoined my comrades
from 1 o'clock till half-past 4.

Curiously enough, we can easily bear the cold: an admirable article of clothing, which nearly
all of us possess, is a flour-sack which can be worn, according to the occasion, as a little
shoulder-cape, or as a bag for the feet. In either case it is an excellent preserver of heat.

11 o'clock.

For the moment there runs in my mind a pretty and touching air by Handel. Also, an allegro
from our organ duets: joyful and brilliant music, overflowing with life. Dear Handel! Often
he consoles me.

Beethoven comes back only rarely to my mind, but when his music does awake in me, it touches
something so vital that it is always as though a hand were drawing aside a curtain from the
mystery of the Creation.

Poor dear Great Masters! Shall it be counted a crime against them that they were Germans? How
is it possible to think of Schumann as a barbarian?

Yesterday this country recalled to my mind what you played to me ten years ago, the Rheingold:
'Libre étendu sur la hauteur.' But the outlook of our French art had this superiority over
the beautiful music of that wretched man--it had composure and clarity and reason. Yes, our
French art was never turbid.

As for Wagner, however beautiful his music, and however irresistible and attractive his genius,
I believe it would be a less substantial loss to French taste to be deprived of him than of
his great classical compatriots.

       *       *       *       *       *

I can say with truth that in those moments when the idea of a possible return comes to me,
it is never the thought of the comfort or the well-being that preoccupies me. It is something
higher and nobler which turns my thoughts towards this form of hope. Can I say that it is even
something different from the immense joy of our meeting again? It is rather the hope of taking
up again our common effort, our association, of which the aim is the development of our souls,
and the best use we can make of them upon earth.

November 19, in the morning.

MY VERY DEAR MOTHER,--To-day I was wakened at dawn by a violent cannonade, unusual at that
hour. Just then some of the men came back frozen by a night in the trenches. I got up to fetch
them some wood, and then, on the opposite slope of the valley, the fusillade burst out fully.
I mounted as high as I could, and I saw the promise of the sun in the pure sky.

Suddenly, from the opposite hill (one of those hills I love so much), I heard an uproar, and
shouting: 'Forward! Forward!' It was a bayonet charge. This was my first experience of one--not
that I saw anything; the still-dark hour, and, probably, the disposition of the ground, prevented
me. But what I heard was enough to give me the feeling of the attack.

Up till then I had never imagined how different is the courage required by this kind of anonymous
warfare from the traditional valour in war, as conceived by the civilian. And the clamour of
this morning reminds me, in the midst of my calm, that young men, without any personal motive
of hate, can and must fling themselves upon those who are waiting to kill them.

But the sun rises over my country. It lightens the valley, and from my height I can see two
villages, two ruins, one of which I saw ablaze for three nights. Near to me, two crosses made
of white wood. . . . French blood flows in 1914. . . .

November 20.

From the window near which I write I see the rising sun. It shines upon the hoar-frost, and
gradually I discover the beautiful country which is undergoing such horrors. It appears that
there were many victims in the bayonet charge which I heard yesterday. Among others, we are
without tidings of two sections of the regiment which formed part of our brigade. While these
others were working out their destiny, I was on the crest of the most beautiful hill (I was
very much exposed also at other times). I saw the daybreak; I was full of emotion in beholding
the peace of Nature, and I realised the contrast between the pettiness of human violence and
the majesty of the surroundings.

That time of pain for you, from September 9th to October 13th, corresponds exactly with my
first phase of war. On September 9th I arrived, and detrained almost within reach of the terrible
battle of the Marne, which was in progress 35 kilometres away. On the 12th I rejoined the 106th,
and thenceforward led the life of a combatant. On October 13th, as I told you, we left the
lovely woods, where the enemy artillery and infantry had done a lot of mischief among us, especially
on the 3rd. Our little community lost on that day a heart of gold, a wonderful boy, grown too
good to live. On the 4th, an excellent comrade, an architectural student, was wounded fairly
severely in the arm, but the news which he has since sent of himself is good. Then until the
13th, terrible day, we lived through some hard times, especially as the danger, real enough,
was exaggerated by the feeling of suffocation and of the unknown which hemmed us round in those
woods, so fine at any other time.

The important thing is to bear in mind the significance of every moment. The problem is of
perpetual urgency. On one side the providential blessing, up till the present, of complete
immunity. On the other, the hazards of the future. That is how our wish to do good should be
applied to the present moment. There is no satisfaction to be had in questioning the future,
but I believe that every effort made now will avail us then. It is a heroic struggle to sustain,
but let us count not only on ourselves but on another force so much more powerful than our
human means.

November 21.

To-day we lead a bourgeoise life, almost too comfortable. The cold keeps us with the extraordinary
woman who lodges us whenever we visit the village where we are billeted three days out of nine.

I will not tell you about the pretty view from the window where I write, but I will speak of
the interior which shelters many of our days. By day we live in two rooms divided by a glass
partition, and, looking through from one room to another, we can admire either the fine fire
in the great chimney-place or the magnificent wardrobe and the Meuse beds made of fine old
brass. All the delicate life of these two old women (the mother, 87 years old, and the daughter)
is completely disorganised by the roughness, the rudeness, the kind hearts and the generosity
of the soldiers. These women accept all that comes and are most devoted.

As for Spinoza, whose spirit you already possess, I think that you can go straight to the last
theorems. You will be sure to have intuitive understanding of what he says about the soul's
repose. Yes, those are moments experienced by us too rarely in our weakness, but they suffice
to let us discover in ourselves, through the blows and buffetings of our poor human nature,
a certain tendency towards what is permanent and what is final; and we realise the splendid
inheritance of divinity to which we are the heirs.

       *       *       *       *       *

Dear mother, what a happy day I have just spent with you.

There were three of us: we two and the pretty landscape from my window.

Seen from here, winter gives a woolly and muffled air to things. Two clouds, or rather mists,
wrap the near hillside without taking any delicacy from the drawing of the shrubs on the crest;
the sky is light green. All is filtered. Everything sleeps. This is the time for night-attacks,
the cries of the charge, the watch in the trenches. Let our prayers of every moment ask for
the end of this state of things. Let us wish for rest for all, a great amends, recompense for
all grief and pain and separation.

YOUR SON.

Sunday, November 22, 9.30.

