    No harbingers of joy the olden message sing,
    Nor gifts of Peace to waiting mortals bring.

    Alone the thronging hosts of evil men I hear,
    And see the anxious brow and falling tear.

    The Age will bear no yoke; forgets the God above,
    Nor duteous payment yields to parents' love.

    Suspicious Discord rends the peaceful State in twain,
    And busy Murder follows in her train.

    Gone are the loyal faith, the rights revered of old--
    Reigns but a blind and cruel lust of Gold!

    O come, Thou holy Child! Pity the fallen world,
    Lest it should perish, into darkness hurled.

    Out of the laboring Night grant it a newer birth,
    And a New Age to bloom o'er all the earth.

    Circle with splendors old the brow of Faith divine;
    Let her full glory on the nations shine.

    Nerve her to battlings new; palsy her foes with dread;
    Place the victorious laurel on her head.

    Be Error's mist dissolved, and ancient feuds repressed,
    Till Earth at last find quietude and rest.

    O gentle Peace, return nor evermore depart;
    And link us hand in hand and heart to heart!

--Pope Leo XIII.

(Translated by H. T. Henry.)

CHAPTER VIII.

YULE-TIDE IN SPAIN

    "With antics and with fooleries, with shouting and with laughter,
    They fill the streets of Burgos--and the Devil he comes after."

In Spain, the land of romance and song, of frost and flowers, where at Yule-tide the mountains
wear a mantle of pure white snow while flowers bloom gaily in field and garden, the season's
observance approaches more nearly than in any other country to the old Roman Saturnalia.

The Celts who taught the Spaniards the love of ballads and song left some traces of the sun-worshipers'
traditions, but they are few in comparison with those of other European countries. Spain is
a land apparently out of the line of Wodin's travel and influence, where one looks in vain
for the mysterious mistletoe, the pretty holly, and the joyful Christmas tree.

The season is rigidly observed in churches, but otherwise it loses its spirit of devotion in
that of wild revelry. Music, mirth, and hilarity are the leading features of the occasion,
and home and family pleasures are secondary affairs.

Of course the customs vary in different provinces, some of which still cling to primitive forms
of observance while others are fast adopting those of foreign residents and becoming Continental
in style. But everywhere throughout the land Christmas is the day of days,--the great church
festival observed by all.

The Noche-buena or Good Night, preceding Christmas, finds the shops gay with sweets and fancy
goods suitable for holiday wear, but not with the pretty gifts such as circulate from home
to home in northern countries, for here gifts are not generally exchanged.

Doctors, ministers, and landlords receive their yearly gifts of turkeys, cakes, and produce
from their dependents, but the love of presenting dainty Christmas gifts has not reached the
land of the three C's--the Cid, Cervantes, and Columbus.

Do you know what you would probably do if you were a dark-cheeked Spanish lad named Miguel,
or a bright-eyed, light-hearted Spanish maiden named Dolores?

If you were Miguel you would don your black jacket and brown trousers, knot your gayest kerchief
around your neck, and with your guitar in hand you would hasten forth to enjoy the fun that
prevails in every street of every town in Spain on Christmas Eve, or, as it is known there,
the Noche-buena.

If you were pretty Dolores you would surely wear your red or yellow skirt, or else of striped
red and yellow, your best embroidered velvet jacket,--handed down from mother to daughter,
and a wonderful sample of the handiwork that once made the country famous,--your numerous necklaces
and other ornaments. You would carefully braid your heavy dark tresses and bedeck your shapely
head with bright flowers, then with your panderetta or tambourine in hand, you too would join
the merry throng that fill the air with mirthful songs and music on Noche-buena; for remember,

    "This is the eve of Christmas,
    No sleep from now till morn."

The air is full of the spirit of unrest, castanets click joyously, tambourines jingle their
silvery strains, while guitars and other musical instruments help to swell the babel of sound
preceding the hour of the midnight mass:

    "At twelve will the child be born,"

and if you have not already done some especially good deed to some fellow mortal, you will
hasten to clear your conscience by such an act before the bells announce the hour of its birth.
As the stars appear in the heavens, tiny oil lamps are lighted in every house, and among all
devout Roman Catholics the image of the Virgin is illuminated with a taper.

The streets, which in many cities are brilliantly lighted with electricity, are crowded with
turkeys awaiting purchasers. They are great fat birds that have been brought in from the country
and together with quacking ducks and cooing pigeons help to swell the sounds that fill the
clear, balmy air. Streets and market-places are crowded with live stock, while every other
available spot is piled high with delicious fruit;--golden oranges, sober-hued dates, and indispensable
olives; and scattered among these are cheeses of all shapes and kinds, sweetmeats of all sorts,
the choice candies that are brought from various provinces, and quaint pigskins of wine. No
wonder every one who can do so hurries forth into the street on Noche-buena.

If you are not tempted to stop and gaze at these appetizing exhibits, you will pass quickly
on to the brightly lighted booths devoted to toys. Oh, what a feast for young eyes! Here yours
will surely light on some coveted treasure. It may be an ordinary toy, a drum, a horn, or it
may be a Holy Manger, Shepherds, The Wise Men, or even a Star of the East.

It is hard to keep one's purse closed among such a surfeit of tempting articles, and everywhere
money flows freely from hand to hand, although the Spanish are usually very frugal.

As the bells clang out the hour of midnight, you will hurry to join the throng wending its
way to the nearest church, where priests in their gorgeous robes,--some of them worn only on
this occasion and precious with rare embroidery and valuable jewels,--perform the midnight
or cock-crow mass, and where the choir and the priests chant a sweet Christmas hymn together.
What if it is late when the service ends? Christmas Eve without dancing is not to be thought
of in Spain. So you go forth to find a group of Gipsy dancers who are always on hand to participate
in this great festival; or you watch the graceful Spanish maiden in her fluffy skirts of lace,
with her deep pointed bodice, a bright flower in her coal-black hair beside the tall comb,
and her exquisitely shaped arms adorned with heavy bracelets. "Oh, what magnificent eyes! What
exquisite long lashes!" you exclaim to yourself. See her poise an instant with the grace of
a sylph, one slippered foot just touching the floor, then click, click, sound the castanets,
as they have sounded for upwards of two thousand years and are likely to do for two thousand
more, for their inspiriting click seems necessary to move Spanish feet and give grace to the
uplifted arms. At first she may favor you with the energetic fandango, or the butterfly-like
bolero, but on Christmas Eve the Jota is the universal favorite. It is danced and sung to music
which has been brought down to the present time unwritten, and which was passed from mouth
to mouth through many generations. Translated the words read:

    "Of Jesus the Nativity is celebrated everywhere,
    Everywhere reigns contentment, everywhere reigns pleasure,"

the audience joining in the refrain:

    "Long live merrymaking, for this is a day of rejoicing,
    And may the perfume of pleasure sweeten our existence."

It will probably be late into the morning before the singing, dancing, thought-less crowd turns
homeward to rest, and although it is certainly a crowd intoxicated with pleasure, it is never
in that condition from liquor.

There are three masses on Christmas Day, and all devout Catholics attend one of them at least,
if not all. In some places Nativity plays are given on Christmas Eve or else on Christmas Day.
They are long performances, but never tedious to the audiences, because the scenes appeal to
them with the force of absolute realism. On Christmas morning the postmen, telegraph boys,
and employees of various vocations, present to their employers and others little leaflets containing
a verse appropriate to the day, or the single sentence "A Happy Christmas," expecting to receive
in return a Christmas box filled with goodies of some kind.

While Spanish children do not have the Christmas tree to gather around they do have the pretty
Nacimiento, made of plaster and representing the place of Christ's nativity, with the manger,
tiny men and women, trees, and animals, such as are supposed to have existed at the time and
place of the Nativity.

The Nacimiento (meaning being born) is lighted with candles, and little folks dance gayly around
it to the music of tambourines and their own sweet voices, joyously singing one of the pretty
Nativity songs. Groups of children go about the streets singing these songs of which there
are many.

In this pleasing custom of the Nacimiento one sees a vestige of the Saturnalia, for during
that festival small earthenware figures used to be for sale for the pleasure of children. Although
the Spanish race is a mixed one and various peoples have been in power from time to time, at
one period the country was, with the exception of Basque, entirely Romanized. It is interesting
to note the lingering influence of this mighty Roman nation and find in this century that some
of the main features of the great Roman feast are retained in the great Christian feast at
Yule-tide.

Southern races were always firm believers in Fate. The Mohammedans reverenced the Tree of Fate,
but the Romans held sacred the urn containing the messages of Fate. So the Spaniards cling
to the urn, from which at Christmas gatherings of friends it is the custom to draw the names
of the men and women whom Fate ordains shall be devoted friends during the year,--the men performing
all the duties of lovers. This drawing of one's Fate for the coming year creates great merriment
and often no little disappointment. But Fate is inexorable and what is to be must be, so the
Spanish maiden accepts graciously the one Fate thus assigns her.

After the midday breakfast on Christmas morning the people usually seek out-of-door pleasures.
Among many of the old families only blood relations are expected to eat and drink together
on this holy day.

Ordinarily the Spaniard "may find perfect entertainment in a crust of bread and a bit of garlic"
as the proverb claims, but at Yule-tide his stomach demands many delicacies peculiar to the
season. The Puchero Olla, the national dish for dinner, must have a few extra ingredients added
on this occasion. The usual compound of chickens, capons, bacon, mutton, beef, pig's feet,
lard, garlic, and everything else the larder affords, is quite insufficient to be boiled together
on this occasion. However, if one has no relatives to invite him to a feast, it is an easy
matter to secure a Christmas dinner on the streets, where men are ready to cook for him over
their braseros of charcoal and venders are near at hand to offer preserved fruits, the famous
almond rock, almond soup, truffled turkey, or the most desirable of the season's delicacies,--sea-bream,
which is brought from Cadiz especially for Christmas use, and which is eaten at Christmas in
accordance with the old-time custom. Nuts of all kinds are abundant. By the side of the streets,
venders of chestnuts--the finest in the world--lean against their clumsy two-wheeled carts,
picturesque in costumes that are ragged and soiled from long service. Rich layer-cakes of preserves,
having almond icing with fruits and liquor-filled ornaments of sugar on top, are frequently
sent from friend to friend for dinner.

In Seville, and possibly in other places, the people hurry to the cathedral early in the afternoon
in order to secure good places before the high altar from which to view the Siexes, or dances.
Yes, dances! This ceremony takes place about five o'clock just as the daylight fades and night
draws near. Ten choristers and dancers, indiscriminately termed Siexes, appear before the altar
clad in the costume of Seventeenth-Century pages, and reverently and with great earnestness
sing and dance an old-time minuet, with castanet accompaniment, of course. The opening song
is in honor of the Virgin, beginning:

    "Hail, O Virgin, most pure and beautiful."

Among the ancients dancing was a part of religious services, but it is now seldom seen in churches.
This Christmas dance, given in a beautiful cathedral just at the close of day, is a very impressive
ceremony and forms a fitting close to the Spanish Christmas, which is so largely made up of
customs peculiar to ancient and modern races.

In every part of Spain song and dance form an important part of the festivities of Yule-tide,
which lasts two weeks, although the laboring class observe but two days of pleasure. At the
palace the King holds a reception on New Year's, not for the public generally, but for the
diplomats and grandees.

The higher circles of society observe New Year as a time of exchanging calls and visiting,
feasting and merrymaking. At the banquets of the wealthy every possible delicacy in the way
of food is temptingly displayed, and great elegance in dress indulged in by the ladies, who
wear their finest gowns and adorn themselves in priceless jewels and rare laces. But there
is so much etiquette to be observed among this class of Spaniards that one looks for the real
enjoyment of the season among the common classes.

In some parts of Spain bull-fights are given as late as December, but cold weather has a softening
effect on the poor bulls and makes them less ferocious, so unless the season proves unusually
warm that favorite entertainment has to be abandoned for a time. Meanwhile in the streets and
homes one may often see a father on all fours enacting the infuriated bull for his little sons
to attack; in this way he teaches them the envied art of bull-fighting. The Yule-tide festivities
end at Twelfth Day,--Epiphany,--when crowds of young folks go from gate to gate in the cities
to meet the Magi, and after much merriment they come to the conclusion that the Magi will not
appear until the following year.

NIGHT OF MARVELS

    In such a marvelous night; so fair
      And full of wonder, strange and new,
    Ye shepherds of the vale, declare--
      Who saw the greatest wonder?
                Who?

        (First Shepherd)

    I saw the trembling fire look wan;

        (Second Shepherd)

      I saw the sun shed tears of blood;

        (Third Shepherd)

    I saw a God become a man;

        (Fourth Shepherd)

      I saw a man become a God.

    O, wondrous marvels! at the thought,
      The bosom's awe and reverence move;
    But who such prodigies hath wrought?
      What gave such wondrous birth?
                'Twas love!

    What called from heaven the flame divine,
      Which streams in glory far above,
    And bid it o'er earth's bosom shine,
      And bless us with its brightness?
                Love!

    Who bid the glorious sun arrest
      His course, and o'er heaven's concave move
    In tears,--the saddest, loneliest,
      Of the celestial orbs?
                'Twas love!

    Who raised the human race so high,
      E'en to the starry seats above,
    That, for our mortal progeny,
      A man became a God?
                'Twas love!

    Who humbled from the seats of light
      Their Lord, all human woes to prove,
    Led the great Source of day to night,
      And made of God a man?
                'Twas love!

    Yes! love has wrought, and love alone,
      The victories all,--beneath, above:
    And heaven and earth shall shout as one,
      The all-triumphant song
                Of love.

    The song through all heaven's arches ran,
      And told the wondrous tales aloud,
    The trembling fire that looked so wan,
      The weeping sun behind the cloud,
    A God, a God become a man!
    A mortal man become a God.

--Violante Do Ceo.

CHAPTER IX.

YULE-TIDE IN AMERICA

    "And they who do their souls no wrong,
    But keep, at eve, the faith of morn.
    Shall daily hear the angel-song,
    'To-day the Prince of Peace is born.'"

--James Russell Lowell.

To people who go into a new country to live, Christmas, which is so generally a family day,
must of necessity be a lonely, homesick one. They carry with them the memory of happy customs,
of loved ones far away, and of observances which can never be held again. So many of the earliest
Christmasses in America were peculiarly sad ones to the various groups of settlers; most especially
was this the case with the first Christmas ever spent by Europeans in the New World.

The intrepid mariner, Christopher Columbus, entered the port of Bohio, in the Island of Hayti,
on St. Nicholas Day, December 6, 1492, and in honor of the day named that port Saint Nicholas.
The Pinta with her crew had parted from the others and gone her own way, so the Santa Maria
and the Niña sailed on together, occasionally stopping where the port seemed inviting. While
in one of these, Columbus heard of rich mines not far distant and started for them. The Admiral
and his men were tired from continued watching, and as the sea was smooth and the wind favorable,
they went to sleep leaving the ship in care of a boy. Who he was no one knows, but he was evidently
the first Christian boy to pass a Christmas Eve on this continent,--and a sad one it was for
him. The ship struck a sand-bank and settled, a complete wreck, in the waters of the New World.
Fortunately no lives were lost, and the wreckage furnished material for the building of a fortress
which occupied the men's time during the remainder of the Yule-tide.

The Niña was too small to accommodate two crews, therefore on Christmas Day many of the men
were wondering who were to stay on that far-away island among the strange looking natives of
whom they knew nothing.

The Chief of Guarico (Petit Anse), whom Columbus was on his way to visit at the time of the
disaster, sent a fleet of canoes to the assistance of the strangers, and did what he could
to make them happy during the day. The Spaniards and the natives worked until dawn on Christmas
morning, bringing ashore what they could secure from the wreck, and storing it away on the
island for future use. Strange to relate, they succeeded in saving all of their provisions,
the spars, and even many of the nails of the wrecked Santa Maria. But what a Christmas morning
for Columbus and his men, stranded on an island far, far from home, among a strange people!
There were no festivities to be observed by that sad, care-worn company of three hundred men
on that day, but the following morning Chief Guacanagari visited the Niña and took Columbus
ashore, where a banquet was prepared in his honor, the first public function attended by Columbus
in America. It can be pictured only in imagination. There on that beautiful island which seemed
to them a paradise on earth, with tall trees waving their long fronds in the warm breeze, with
myriads of birds such as they had never seen filling the air with song, Columbus stood, attired
in his gorgeous uniform and dignified, as it befitted him to be, beside his host who was elegantly
dressed in a shirt and a pair of gloves which Columbus had given him, with a coronet of gold
on his head. The visiting chieftains with gold coronets moved about in nature's garb, among
the "thousand,"--more or less,--who were present as guests. The feast consisted of shrimps,
cassavi,--the same as the native bread of to-day,--and some of their nutritive roots.

It was not a sumptuous repast although it may have been a bountiful one, yet they probably
enjoyed it.

The work of building a fortress began at once. Within ten days the Fortress of Navidad was
completed. It stood on a hill and was surrounded with a broad, deep ditch for protection against
natives and animals, and was to be the home of those of the company who remained in the New
World, for the Niña was too small to convey all hands across the ocean to Spain, and nothing
had been heard of the Pinta. Leaving biscuits sufficient for a year's supply, wine, and such
provisions as could be spared, Columbus bade farewell to the forty men whom he was never to
see again, and sailed for the Old World on January 4, 1493.

So far as recorded, Columbus was the only one among the Spaniards who received gifts during
this first Yule-tide in America. But what seemed a cruel fate to him was the means of bestowing
a valuable gift upon the world. Had the Santa Maria continued her course in safety that Christmas
Eve there might never have been a fortress or any European settlement founded. So, although
it was a sad, troubled Yule-tide to the Spanish adventurers, it proved a memorable one in the
annals of America.

Four hundred years later the anchor of the Santa Maria was discovered and brought to the United
States to be one of its treasured exhibits at the great Columbian Exposition, where a descendant
of Columbus was the honored guest of the Government.

One hundred and fifty years after the building of the Fortress of Navidad, after many ineffectual
attempts, a settlement was effected in the New World by a colony from England. They sailed
from Blackwell, on the Thames, on December 19, 1606, and for six weeks were "knocking about
in sight of England." Their first Christmas was spent within sight of their old homes. According
to Captain John Smith's account, "It was, indeed, but a sorry Christmas that we spent on board,"
as many of them were very sick, yet Smith adds, "We made the best cheer we could." The colonists
landed and solemnly founded Jamestown on May 13, 1607. That year Yule-tide was spent by Captain
Smith among the Powhatan Indians, by whom he was taken captive. This colony consisted of men
only; no genuine Christmas observance could take place without women and children, and no women
arrived until 1609, and then only twenty came. But after the ninety young women arrived in
1619, supplied to planters for one hundred pounds of tobacco each, and a cargo of twenty negroes
had landed to help with the work, there may have been an attempt at keeping Christmas although
there is no record of the fact.

At this season there was usually a raid made upon the Indians.

In after years prosperity smiled on the land of the Jamestown settlers. Amidst the peace and
plenty that followed the earlier years of strife and poverty, the Virginians became noted for
their hospitality and lavish observance of Yule-tide. It was the happy home-coming for daughters,
sons, uncles, aunts, and cousins of the first, second, and even the third degree. For whosoever
was of the name and lineage, whether rich or poor, was welcomed at this annual ingathering
of the family. Every house was filled to overflowing; great hickory fires were lighted on the
open hearths; the rooms were brilliantly lighted with candles, and profusely trimmed with greens.
From doors and ceilings were hung sprigs of the mysterious mistletoe, for

                  "O'er the lover
    I'll shake the berry'd mistletoe; that he
    May long remember Christmas,"

was the thought of merry maidens as they decorated their homes.

Christmas brought carriage-loads of guests to these old-time homes, to partake of the good
cheer and enjoy weeks of fun and frolic, indoors and out. For many days before Christmas arrived,
colored cooks, the regular, and extra ones, were busy cooking from morning till evening, preparing
for the occasion. The storerooms were replete with every variety of tempting food the ingenious
minds of the cooks could devise, for Christmas dinner was the one great test of their ability
and woe to Auntie whose fire was too hot, or whose judgment was at fault on this occasion.

To the whites and blacks Christmas was a season of peace, plenty, and merriment. In the "Great
House" and in the cabin there were music, dancing, and games until New Year. This was "Hiring
Day," and among the blacks joy was turned to sadness as husbands, fathers, brothers, and lovers
were taken away to work on distant plantations, for those who hired extra help through the
year were often extremely cruel in their treatment of the slaves.

The gladsome Virginia Christmas in time became the typical one of the South, where it was the
red-letter day of the year, the most joyous of all holidays. The churches were lovingly and
tastefully decorated with boughs of green and flowers by the ladies themselves and conscientiously
attended by both old and young. In the South there was never any of the somberness that attended
church services in the North among descendants of the Plymouth Colony who came to America later.

The Puritans of England early discountenanced the observance of Christmas. But among the Pilgrims
who reached the American coast in December, 1620, were mothers who had lived so long in Holland
they loved the old-time custom of making merry on that day. To these dear women, and to the
kind-hearted, child-loving Elder Brewster, we are indebted for the first observance of the
day held by the Plymouth Colony.

According to the Journal of William Bradford, kept for so many years, the Pilgrims went ashore,
"and ye 25 day (Dec.) begane to erecte ye first house for comone use to receive them and their
goods." Bradford conscientiously refrains from alluding to the day as Christmas, but descendants
of these godly Puritans are glad to learn that home-making in New England was begun on Christmas
Day.

Many very interesting stories have been written about this first Christmas. One writer even
pictures the more lenient Elder Brewster as going ashore that morning and inviting the Indian
Chief Massasoit to go aboard the Mayflower with him. According to the story, the good man endeavored
to impress the chief with the solemnity and significance of the occasion, and then with Massasoit,
two squaws, and six boys and girls, becomingly attired in paint and feathers, he returned to
the ship.

The women and children from over the sea met their new neighbors and guests, received from
them little baskets of nuts and wintergreen berries, and in exchange gave their guests beads,
toys, raisins, and such simple gifts, to which Elder Brewster added a blessing bestowed upon
each child.

The story reads well. But the truth, according to history, makes the first visit of Massasoit
occur some three months later, on March twenty-second. The Puritans had a happy Christmas dinner
together on board the ship which was the only home they possessed as yet, and it is to be presumed
that the exceedingly conscientious non-observers of the day partook quite as freely of the
salt fish, bacon, Brussels sprouts, gooseberry tarts, and English plum pudding, as did those
homesick, tear-choked women who prepared the dinner.

It is certainly to be regretted that vessels are no longer built with the wonderful storage
capacity of the Mayflower! Beside bringing over the innumerable family relics that are treasured
throughout this country, it is stated that this ship brought a barrel full of ivy, holly, laurel,
and immortelles, with which the table was decorated, and wreaths woven for the children to
wear. Bless those dear, brave women who dared to bring "green stuff" for "heathenish decorations"
way across the ocean! Let us add a few extra sprays of green each Christmas in memory of them.
The greens, plum puddings, and other good things had such a happy effect that, according to
Bradford, "at night the master caused us to have some Beere." This was an event worthy of a
capital B, as the men had worked all day in the biting cold at house-building, with only a
scanty supply of water to drink.

Alas! That Christmas on the Mayflower was the last the Pilgrims were to enjoy for many a long
year. Since which time nothing had been attempted that way, at least openly." And thus ended
the last attempt at Christmas observance during Governor Bradford's many terms of office.

The Massachusetts Colony that arrived in 1630, and settled in and around Boston, believed that
Christ's mission on earth as the Saviour of man was too serious a one to be celebrated by the
fallen race. He came to save; they considered it absolutely wicked for any one to be lively
and joyous when he could not know whether or no he was doomed to everlasting punishment. Beside
that, jollity often led to serious results. Were not the jails of Old England full to repletion
the day after Christmas? It was wisest, they thought, to let the day pass unnoticed. And so
only occasionally did any one venture to remember the fact of its occurrence. Among the men
and women who came across the ocean during succeeding years there must have been many who differed
from the first colony in regard to Christmas, for in May, 1659, the General Court of Massachusetts
deemed it necessary to enact a law: "That whosoever shall be found observing any such day as
Christmas or the like, either by forbearing of labour, feasting, or any other way, upon any
such accounts as aforesaid, shall be subjected to a fine of five shillings."

For upward of twenty-two years it remained unlawful in Massachusetts to have a merry Christmas.
There were no pretty gifts on that day to make happy little God-be-thanked, Search-the-scriptures,
Seek-wisdom, Prudence, Hope, or Charity. However, Santa Claus had emissaries abroad in the
land. In December, 1686, Governor Andros, an Episcopalian, and a representative of the King,
brought about the first concession in favor of the day. He believed in celebrating Christmas
and intended to hold appropriate services. The law enacted by Parliament in June, 1647, abolishing
the observance of the day, had been repealed in 1659, and Gov. Andros knew he had the law in
his favor. But every meeting-house was conscientiously (or stubbornly) closed to him. So he
was forced to hold service in the Town House, going with an armed soldier on each side to protect
him from the "good will" exhibited by his fellow townsmen. He held services that day, and it
is believed to be the first observance of Christmas held under legal sanction in Boston.

The great concession was made by the Old South Congregation in 1753 when it offered its sanctuary
to the worshipers in King's Chapel, after that edifice was burned, for them to hold their Christmas
services. It was with the implicit understanding that there was to be no spruce, holly, or
other greens used on that occasion to desecrate their meeting-house.

Little by little the day was brought into favor as a holiday, but it was as late as the year
1856, while Nathaniel P. Banks was Governor, that the day was made a legal holiday in Massachusetts.

The good Dutch Fathers, true to the teachings of their forefathers, sailed for the New World
with the image of St. Nicholas for a figurehead on their vessel. They named the first church
they built for the much-loved St. Nicholas and made him patron saint of the new city on Manhattan
Island. Thanks, many many thanks, to these sturdy old Dutchmen with unpronounceable names who
preserved to posterity so many delightful customs of Christmas observance. What should we have
done without them? They were quite a worthy people notwithstanding they believed in enjoying
life and meeting together for gossip and merrymaking. Christmas was a joyful season with them.
The churches and quaint gabled houses were trimmed with evergreens, great preparations were
made for the family feasts, and business was generally suspended. The jolly old City Fathers
took a prolonged rest from cares of office, even ordering on December 14, 1654, that, "As the
winter and the holidays are at hand, there shall be no more ordinary meetings of this board
(the City Corporation) between this date and three weeks after Christmas. The Court messenger
is ordered not to summon any one in the meantime."

Sensible old souls! They were not going to allow business to usurp their time and thought during
this joyful season! The children must have their trees, hung with gifts; the needy must be
especially cared for, and visits must be exchanged; so the City was left to take care of itself,
while each household was busy making ready for the day of days, the season of seasons.

What a time those hausfraus had polishing up their silver, pewter, brass, and copper treasures,
in opening up best rooms, and newly sanding the floors in devious intricate designs! What a
pile of wood was burned to bake the huge turkeys, pies, and puddings! What pains the fathers
took to select the rosiest apples and the choicest nuts to put in each child's stocking on
Christmas Eve. Fortunately, children obeyed the injunction of Scripture in those days, and
despised not the day of small things.

How fortunate it was that there were no trains or other rapid modes of conveyance to bring
visitors from the Puritan Colonies at this season. There was no possibility of any of their
strict neighbors dropping in unexpectedly to furnish a free lecture, while the Dutch families
were merrily dancing. The Puritans were located less than two hundred and eighty-five miles
distant, yet they were more distantly separated by ideas than by space. But a little leaven
was eventually to penetrate the entire country, and the customs that are now observed each
Christmas throughout the Eastern, Middle, and Western States, are mainly such as were brought
to this country by the Dutch. Americans have none of their own. In fact, they possess but little
that is distinctively their own because they are a conglomerate nation, speaking a conglomerate
language.

According to the late Lawrence Hutton, "Our Christmas carols appear to have come from the Holy
Land itself; our Christmas trees from the East by way of Germany; our Santa Claus from Holland;
our stockings hung in the chimney, from France or Belgium; and our Christmas cards and verbal
Christmas greetings, our Yule-logs, our boars' heads, our plum puddings and our mince pies
from England. Our turkey is, seemingly, our only contribution." Let us add the squash-pie!

