Tel yuh, whut ah uster do. Ah uster play pranks on ol' Masser Scott. Ah's regular lil' devil,
ah was. Come night, ev'y body sit 'round big fire place in living room. Soon it git kinder
late, Massa git up outer his cheer tuh win' up, de clock. Ah gits hin' his cheer ret easy,
an' quick sneak his cheer f'om un'er him; an' when he finish he set smack on de flow! Den he
say "Dogone yuh lil' cattin', ah gwan switch yuh!" Ah jes' fly out de room. Wont sceered though
cause ah knows Massa won' gon do nottin' 'tuh me.

What ah know 'bout whippin'. Well ah ain' had uh whippin' in my life. But ah hear tel o' how
dey whips um though. Yuh know dey uster tek dat cowhide an' cut 'em till dey backs beeds. Some
jes' lak see de blood run down. Better not cry neider. Mek yuh holler, "Oh pray! oh pray!"
Couldn't say nottin' else. But Massa Scott neber had none dat kinder stuff on his place. He
say tain't right. Didn't 'low no paddyrollers 'round eider. Say dey "trechous". Massa Nottin'ham
neber had 'em on his place neider. He didn' neber strike one o' his niggers; nobody else better
not neider.

Honey, ah teh yuh ah growd jes' as good's any chil' in dis country. Ol' Missus Scott gimme
good clothes; cose ah didn't git 'em mone twice a yeah, but dey's good when ah gits 'em. She
gimmie Sis' dresses. Sis' one ob Missus' little girls. An' de whi' chillun dey learn me how
tuh read, too. Cose de whi' folks din wan' yuh to learn. Ah 'member jes' as clare as yestidy
how one dem chillun learn me how tuh read "compress-i-bility". Thought ah was suppin' den!
Ah kin read Bible lil now but ah can' write; neber learn tuh write.

Did ah eber go tuh church? Cose ah did! Went ret 'long wid Missus' chillun. Had tuh set in
de back, but dat won' nottin'. My mommer, she went tuh church too. Sometime de ol' folk uster
git togedder in de quater-kitchen tuh shout an' pray. Dats where my mommer git 'ligion. She
kinder tender 'oman; couldn' stan' dat preachin' no longer.

What 'bout muh pappy? Dat's suppin' ah ain' tol' yuh 'bout. Well, yuh know Uncle Stephen, he
kinder overseer fo' some widow 'omans. He Mommer husband. He come see muh mommer any time he
gits ready. But ah fin' out he ain' muh pappy. Ah knowd dat since when ah's a lil' thin'. Ah
uster go ovur tuh massa William's plantation. Dey tell me all 'bout. De folks ober dere dey
uster say tuh me, "Who's yuh pappy? Who's yuh pappy?" Ah jes' say "Tuckey buzzard lay me an'
de sun hatch me" an' den gwan 'bout my business. Cose all de time dey knows an' ah knows too
dat Massa Williams was muh pappy. Ah tell yuh suppin' else. Got uh brother libin' ret on dis
here street; one den toof doctors, yuh know, what pulls yer teef. Cose he's white. But tain't
knowed 'roun' here. 'Twould ruin him. He's a nice man though. Uster go tuh see muh son an'
his wife, lots uh times. Yes dey's good frien's.

Yes, dey had overseers. Sometime dey call dem stewards. Had colored uns too. Massa Scott had
white overseers, good man though; but Massa Nottin'ham, he had big black boss on his place.
[HW illegible over struck out: cain'] 'member his name. He ain' had to git no p'mission tuh
come tuh our place. He jes' come an' goes when he gits ready.

Kin ah 'member de war? Yes, indeed! 'Member jes' lak 'twas yestidy. Well dey had a stow down
de conner f'om Massa's plantation, an' dey al'ys sen' me tuh stow fo' tuh buy things. Uster
go down dere, an' dem Yankees be sittin' all 'long de road wid dey blue coats; ret pretty site;
'twas. But ah's sceard tuh deaf, when ah gits neah 'em. Ah gits what ah wants f'om de stow,
an' flys pass 'em. Dem Yankees show had dey way. Dey went in all de white folks house; tek
dey silver, an' inything dey big 'nough carry out. Jes' ruin Missus furniture; get up on de
table an' jes' cut capper. Nasty things! Den de Yankees goes 'round at night, tek anybody dey
wants tuh help 'em fight. Twas dey "Civil right". Got my Jake, cose ah neber knowd him den.
He twelve yeah oller ah is.

Lemmie tell yuh 'bout muh Jake, how he did in de war. He big man in dey war. He drill soldiers
ev'y day. Firs' he be in one dem companies--Company "C" ah bliebe. Den he wucked up to be sergent-Major,
in de Tenth Regiment. Jacob [HW illegible over struck out: Godium] his name was. He say all
look up tuh him an' 'spect him too. See dat "Sowd" ov'in dat coner? Dat's de ve'y sowd he used
in de war, an' ah kep' it all dese yeahs. No de soldiers neber did no fighting 'round here's
ah know of. But plenty ob 'em camped here.

My Jake, he hansome man, he was. 'Member, how we firs' got togeder. We all was tuh church one
Sunday, an' Jake he kep' cidin' up to me. An' ah lookin' at him outer de coner muh eye, till
finally he come up an' took holt muh han's. 'Twas af't de war ah had growd up. Ah was in muh
early teens den. Dey say ah's de purtiet girl on de Shore. An' when Jake an' me got married,
ev'ybody said, "You show maks a purty couple."

De ol' Scott chillun what ah growd up wid? No, mone dem lef' now. Dey las' girl died heah las'
yeah an' hur daughter come way down here f'om up in Maryland tuh tell "An' Candis" 'bout it.
Wouldn' tell me sceard 'twould 'cite me. But ah hea'd hur tellin' my chil dere all 'bout it.
Ol' Massa Scott's chillun, some dem, dey still comes tuh see me. Slip me some money now'n den,
an' suppin' t'eat, too. Dey's all moughty nice folks, dem Scotts is.

450011

Interview of Mr. Charles Grandy, Ex-slave By--David Hoggard Date--February 26, 1937

[HW: Norfolk, Va.]

History of Ex-slave and Civil War Veteran

Charles Grandy was born February 19, 1842, in Mississippi. While still an infant, he was brought
to Norfolk. When the family arrived in Norfolk his father was arrested on some pretentious
charge, and the whole family was placed in prison. After their release, they were taken to
a plantation near Hickory Ground, Virginia, and sold. Slaves, at this time, were often taken
to rural districts in carts, and sold to owners of plantations, as they were needed. Family
life, friendships, and love affairs were often broken up; many times never to be united.

Following the general routine of slaves, the Grandy family was given a shanty; food and clothing
was also issued to them, and had to last until the master decided to give out another supply.
Usually, he issued them their allowance of food weekly. Often the supply was insufficient for
their needs.

Charles played around the plantation "big house", doing small errands until he reached the
age of five, then his play days ended. While playing on the wood pile one morning, his master
called him, "boy do you see this grass growing along the side of the fence? Well pull it all
[SP: al] up." When his first task was finished, he was carried to the field to pull the grass
from the young cotton and other growing crops. This work was done by hand because he was still
too young to use the farm implements. Now he went to his task daily; from early in the morning
until late in the evening. The long toilsome days completely exhausted the youngster. Often
he would fall asleep before reaching home and spend a good portion of the night on the bare
ground. Awakening, he would find it quite a problem to locate his home in the darkness of night.

From the stage of grass pulling by hand, he grew strong enough, in a few years, to use the
hoe rake and sickle. While attempting to carry out his master's orders to cut corn tassels
with a large sharp knife, his elbow was seriously cut. He was taken to the house and treated,
the application being chimney soot, to stop the bleeding. After this treatment the arm was
placed in a sling, and eventually became deformed from insufficient care. He was sent back
to the fields to pick cotton, with one free hand and his teeth, while painfully carrying the
other hand in the sling. Failing to obey this command, he would have been given a whipping,
or sent to the southlands. Sending slaves to the plantations of Mississippi and other southern
states was a type of punishment all slaves feared.

Slaves were not allowed much freedom of worship. The Yankee soldiers and officers played a
great part in the slave's moral training, and religious worship. They secretly instructed small
gatherings of slaves, at night. The points stressed most were, obedience and the evils of stealing.
There were some sections where masters were liberal in their views toward their slaves, and
permitted them to worship openly.

Slaves were allowed to have small quantities of whiskey, even during the days of their worship,
to use for medicinal purposes. It was a common occurrence to see whiskey being sold at the
foot of the hill near the churchyard.

The news of war, and the possibility of Negroes enlisting as soldiers was truly a step closer
to the answering of their prayers for freedom. Upon hearing of this good news Grandy joined
a few of the others in this break for freedom. One night, he and a close friend packed a small
quantity of food in a cloth and set out about midnight to join the northern army. Traveling
at night most of the time, they were constantly confronted with the danger of being recaptured.
Successfully eluding their followers, they reached Portsmouth after many narrow escapes. From
Portsmouth they moved to Norfolk. Arriving in Norfolk, Grandy and his friend decided to take
different roads of travel. Several days and nights found him wandering about the outskirts
of Norfolk, feeding on wild berries, etc. While picking berries along a ditch bank, he was
hailed by a Yankee soldier, who having come in contact with run away slaves before, greeted
him friendly, and questioned him of his home and of his knowledge of work. He was taken to
camp and assigned as cook. At first, he was not very successful in his job, but gradually improvement
was shown. He was asked what wages he would accept. It was such a pleasure to know that he
had escaped the clutches of slavery, he did not ask for wages; but instead, he was willing
to work for anything they would give him, no matter how small, as long as he didn't have to
return to slavery.

Within a short period he was given a uniform and gun; was fully enlisted as a soldier, in the
19th regiment of Wisconsin, Company E. Here he remained in service until November, 1862, after
which time he returned to Norfolk to spend some time with his mother, who was still living.
While sitting in the doorway one day, with his Mother, he was again confronted with the proposition
of reenlisting. He agreed to do so for one year, to serve as guard at Fortress Monroe. He remained
there until the close of the War, offering brave and faithful services.

Mr. Grandy is now ninety-five [SP: ninty-five] years old, residing at 609 Smith Street, Norfolk,
Virginia. He is still able to attend the various conventions of Civil War Veterans. He can
read, write, and has a fair knowledge of the Bible. His main interest is the organization of
Negroes into strong groups. He enjoys talking about religion and is quite an interesting and
intelligent person to talk with.

450005

Interview of Mrs. Della Harris 2 E. Byrne Street Petersburg, Virginia By--Susie Byrd February
5, 1937

"I don't know just how old I is. Muma sent me to private school wid white chillun fo' one week.
I was 13 years old at de time uh Lee's surrender. I belong to Peter or Billy Buck Turnbull
Warrenton, N.C. Put this down. My mother and family all belong to Peter Buck as his slaves.
We didn't work until after the war; then we came to Petersburg. I went to dancing school wid
the white folks and can dance any kind of dance sets. My father was a musicianer. He belonged
to John Carthan, in Warrenton, N.C. In dem days you had to take your Moster's and Mistess'
name. In slavery time when a slave married he had to ask his Moster and Mistess.

"We never went to church. We used to hear de bells ringing loud, baby, yes, clear and strong.
No, never seen [HW: no] Sunday school, and the first time I went in a church I looked all around,
and baby, I thought dat I was in heaven. It wasn't long, Miss Sue, before I got 'ligeon, and,
yes, I jined [HW: de] church, 15 years old I wuz. Never will forget the time, or dat place.
Den I lived here with an ant, muma's sister, who was named Kate Williams. Her husband wuz my
uncle, and he worked and died at de White House in Washington City.

"I don't know de name of de President he worked for, but you can find dat out on dem books.
You know you young folks calls um records.

"Yes child I'm proud of my age never gave no body no trouble.

"I have 8 children dead and now only one son living. Peter Turnbull was good to all his slaves,
as far as I know. Mama was a cook in slavery time. She died in Petersburg, yes, right here
in dis hole.

"No muma never owned any thing, always rented and aint never owned nothing but a passel of
children.

"My muma was a genuine [SP: geniune] Indian. Some people say you can't own Indians. I don't
know how cum, but I do know she was owned by these people, but she surely was an Indian. Every
body knows me all over Virginia.

"When I use to be in dining room service I would hear de white folks talk, and, do you know,
Miss Sue you can hear a lot that way?

"Moster said he couldn't sell me 'cause I was so little. Just kept me fur to wait on de little
chillun in de house.

"Miss Sue, you'll have to give me something for telling you all dis here, if it ain nothing
but a horse cake.

"I've seen lots of dis world in travel. Done bin to Baltimore City; done bin to Philidelphia.

"I aint gwine give you no more, gal.

"Yes, to Lynchburg, den I worked at Mont Royal School, Baby, where Mrs McDaniel was manager.

"The man gwine say, 'dat woman bin some where.' If I stayed long enough I mighta got some learning
but I stayed only one year. Got tired of that place. From one season to another is a year,
aint it? Ah! Lord!

"Young folks now adays are just fur a good time, and a good time too they have. Yes, Siree Bob!

"Gwine stop now, Miss Sue, aint gwine give you no mo'. Man gwine say, Miss Sue, where in the
devil did you get this stuff? Gal, you are a mess. You gonna write most all dat book about
Della. Go on now, dats nough.

"In dem days chillun were chillun, now every body is grown. Chillun then were seen and not
heard. When old persons came around muma sent us out and you better not be seen. Now every
body [HW: act] grown. Make the man laugh.

"I've always enjoyed good health. Never had a Doctor in my life, not even when my chillun wuz
born. Dis rubbing when people got pain just rubs it in. Eating so much and late hours is cause
you young folks dying. All muma's chillun wuz healthy.

"[HW: Real] food in dem days, yes, muma fed us good vituals from white folks. I tell you, we
had good owners. I didn't see sun set when I wuz a child. Always went to bed early, child,
I wish I could call back dem days. Muma said people lived so much longer because they took
care of themselves.

"All dis here education an' people just now got it."

[HW: Question:] Do you think, Mrs. Harris, education has helped our race?

"Well, child, I don' know. Folks are so indifferent now I am afraid to say. Pshaw.... Colored
folks now. Some are messy [HW: an'] don't know how to be polite.

"Talking about lightning days. Its lightning at every bodys house. Lord have mercy on dese
here young folks and deliber me from the plantation, I pray.

"Courting dem days wuz like everything I reckon you all do now adays. You promise to 'bey the
man, but before you finish its cussing, Honey.

