NOTE

All rights in stories in this volume are reserved by the holders of the copyrights. The publishers
and others named in the subjoined list are the proprietors, either in their own right or as
agents for the authors, of the stories taken from the works enumerated, of which the ownership
is hereby acknowledged. The editor takes this opportunity to thank both authors and publishers
for the ready generosity with which they have allowed her to include these stories in "The
Children's Hour."

"The Wonder-Book," and "Tanglewood Tales," by Nathaniel Hawthorne; published by Houghton, Mifflin
& Company.

"Old Greek Folk Stories," by Josephine Preston Peabody; published by Houghton, Mifflin & Company.

"The Odyssey of Homer," English prose version by George Herbert Palmer; published by Houghton,
Mifflin & Company.

CONTENTS

  TO THE CHILDREN

  STORIES FROM HERODOTUS
    LADRONIUS, THE PRINCE OF THIEVES
                  Retold by G. H. Boden and W. Barrington d'Almeida
    ARION AND THE DOLPHIN
                  Retold by G. H. Boden and W. Barrington d'Almeida

  STORIES FROM LIVY
    ROMULUS, FOUNDER OF ROME                       Alfred J. Church
    HOW HORATIUS HELD THE BRIDGE                   Alfred J. Church
    HOW CINCINNATUS SAVED ROME                     Alfred J. Church
    THE STORY OF VIRGINIA                          Alfred J. Church
    THE SACRIFICE OF MARCUS CURTIUS                Alfred J. Church

  STORIES FROM OVID
    THE MIRACULOUS PITCHER                      Nathaniel Hawthorne
    THE GOLDEN TOUCH                            Nathaniel Hawthorne
    THE POMEGRANATE SEEDS                       Nathaniel Hawthorne

  OLD GREEK FOLK-STORIES
    ORPHEUS AND EURYDICE                  Josephine Preston Peabody
    ICARUS AND DÆDALUS                    Josephine Preston Peabody
    PHAETHON                              Josephine Preston Peabody
    NIOBE                                 Josephine Preston Peabody
    PYRAMUS AND THISBE                    Josephine Preston Peabody

  STORIES OF THE TROJAN WAR
    THE APPLE OF DISCORD                  Josephine Preston Peabody
    THE QUARREL BETWEEN AGAMEMNON AND ACHILLES     Alfred J. Church
    THE FIGHT BETWEEN PARIS AND MENELAUS            Walter C. Perry
    THE DUEL BETWEEN HECTOR AND AJAX                Walter C. Perry
    THE DEATH OF PATROCLUS AND THE BATTLE OF THE RIVER
                                                   Alfred J. Church
    VULCAN MAKES ARMOR FOR ACHILLES                 Walter C. Perry
    THE SLAYING OF HECTOR                           Walter C. Perry
    THE FUNERAL GAMES IN HONOR OF PATROCLUS         Walter C. Perry
    THE WOODEN HORSE AND THE FALL OF TROY Josephine Preston Peabody

  THE WANDERINGS OF ULYSSES
    AN ADVENTURE WITH THE CYCLOPS                  Alfred J. Church
    CIRCE'S PALACE                              Nathaniel Hawthorne
    THE SIRENS--SCYLLA AND CHARYBDIS
                                Translated by George Herbert Palmer

  ULYSSES IN ITHACA
    ULYSSES LANDS ON THE SHORE OF ITHACA
                    F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell
    ULYSSES AT THE HOUSE OF THE SWINEHERD
                    F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell
    THE VENGEANCE OF ULYSSES
      A. HIS RECEPTION AT THE PALACE
                    F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell
      B. THE TRIAL OF THE BOW
                                Translated by George Herbert Palmer
      C. THE SLAYING OF THE SUITORS
                    F. S. Marvin, R. J. C. Mayor, and F. M. Stowell
      D. PENELOPE RECOGNIZES ULYSSES
                                Translated by George Herbert Palmer

  THE WANDERINGS OF THE TROJAN ÆNEAS
    THE FLIGHT OF ÆNEAS FROM THE RUINS OF TROY     Alfred J. Church
    ÆNEAS'S ADVENTURE WITH THE HARPIES         Charles Henry Hanson
    ÆNEAS IN THE LAND OF THE CYCLOPS           Charles Henry Hanson
    ÆNEAS AND QUEEN DIDO                           Alfred J. Church
    THE FUNERAL GAMES OF ANCHISES              Charles Henry Hanson
    ÆNEAS'S VISIT TO THE LOWER WORLD           Charles Henry Hanson
    ÆNEAS'S FIRST GREAT BATTLE WITH THE LATINS Charles Henry Hanson
    ÆNEAS FINALLY CONQUERS THE LATINS              Alfred J. Church

ILLUSTRATIONS

  "IT IS STRANGE THAT THEY LET THAT DOG LIE THERE"
                                                L.F. Schutzenberger

  "I AM AFRAID THERE WILL NOT BE HALF ENOUGH SUPPER"   Walter Crane

  THEY LEAPED OUT OF THE BOTTOMLESS HOLE     George Wharton Edwards

  TO HIM AT LAST THE THREE GODDESSES INTRUSTED THE JUDGMENT
  AND THE GOLDEN APPLE                                Giulio Romano

  FIERCE WAS THE FIGHT ABOUT THE BODY OF PATROCLUS    Giulio Romano

  A GREAT IMAGE OF A HORSE                              Franz Cleyn

  THE CYCLOPS IN HIS WRATH BRAKE OFF THE TOP OF A GREAT HILL
                                                L.F. Schutzenberger

  "DEAR SON, HAVE YOU COME HOME AT LAST?"              G. Truffault

  THE FLIGHT FROM TROY                                  Franz Cleyn

  THE VICTORY OF EURYALUS                               Franz Cleyn

TO THE CHILDREN

The greater part of this book is made up of stories from the poems of Homer and Virgil. Homer
is thought to have lived in Greece about three thousand years ago, and yet his poems never
seem old-fashioned and people do not tire of reading them. Boys and girls almost always like
them, because they are so full of stories. If you want to read about giants or mermaids or
shipwrecks or athletic contests or enchanters or furious battles or the capture of cities or
voyages to strange countries, all you have to do is to open the Iliad and the Odyssey, and
you will find stories on all of these subjects. Homer can describe a foot-race or the throwing
of a discus so that you hold your breath to see who will win; and he can picture a battle so
vividly that you almost try to dodge the arrows and spears. He can make the tears come into
your eyes by telling you of the grief of the warrior's wife when he leaves her and their baby
son to go to battle; and he can almost make you shout, "Hurrah for the brave champion!" when
he tells you what wonderful deeds of prowess have been done. He can describe a shield so minutely
that you could make one like it; and he can paint a scene of feasting so perfectly that you
feel as if you had been in the very room.

How is it that Homer makes his stories seem so real? There are several reasons, but one of
the strongest is because he tells the little things that writers often forget to put in. When
he describes the welcome given to two strangers at the house of the lost Ulysses, by Telemachus,
son of the wanderer, he begins, "When they were come within the lofty hall, he carried the
spear to a tall pillar and set it in a well-worn rack." That one word, "well-worn," gives us
the feeling that Homer is not making up a story, but that he has really seen the rack and noticed
how it looked. The same sentence shows why it is that people do not tire of reading Homer.
It ends, "where also stood many a spear of hardy Ulysses." This reminds the reader that in
spite of the hero's long years of absence, no one has been allowed to remove his weapons from
their old place. From this one phrase, then, we can realize how much his wife and son love
him, and how they have mourned for him. Telemachus welcomes the strangers, but we can feel
how eager he is for them to be made comfortable as soon as possible so he can talk of his father
and learn whether they have chanced to meet him in their wanderings. Homer's poems are full
of such sentences as these; and, no matter how many times one reads them, some thought, unnoticed
before, is ever coming to light. That is why they are always fresh and new and interesting.

There is a tradition that Homer was blind, and that he wandered about from one place to another,
singing or reciting his poems; but this is only tradition, and there is little hope that we
shall ever be able to find out whether it is true or not.

Homer's great poem, the Iliad, is the account of the Trojan War. His Odyssey relates the adventures
of the hero Ulysses, or Odysseus, as the Greeks called him, in many years of wandering at the
close of the war before his enemies among the Gods would permit him to return to his home.
There were Trojan heroes, however, as well as Greek, and Æneas was one of them. Virgil, the
Latin poet, has told in the Æneid the story of his troubles and adventures. Æneas, too, was
driven over the waters, for the Gods had told him it was the will of Jupiter, or Zeus, as it
is in Greek, for him to seek Italy and there found a city. Part of his journey is the same
as that of Ulysses. He, too, stops at the country of the one-eyed giants and has to row as
fast as he can to escape the rocks that they throw at his vessel. He, too, hears the thunders
of Mount Ætna and sees the flashing of the fires of the volcano. His sailors point to it in
fear and whisper to one another, "That is the giant Enceladus. He rebelled against the Gods
and they piled the mountain on top of him. The fires of Jupiter burn him, and he breathes out
glowing flames. When he tosses from one side to the other, the whole island of Sicily is shaken
with a mighty earthquake."

Virgil was no homeless singer; he was one of the great literary men of Rome, and he read his
poems aloud to the Emperor Augustus. He had a handsome villa and a troop of friends. He enjoyed
everything that was beautiful and seemed as happy when a friend had written a good poem as
if he had composed it himself. He was never satisfied with his verse till he had made every
line as perfect as possible. When he was ill and knew that he could not recover, he made a
will, and in it he ordered the Æneid to be burned, because it was not so polished as he wished.
"I meant to spend three years more on it," he said. Fortunately for all the people who enjoy
a great poem, the Emperor forbade that this part of the will should be carried out. He gave
the manuscript to three friends of Virgil, all of them poets, with orders to strike out every
phrase that they believed Virgil would have struck out on revision, but not to add one word.
This is the way that the Æneid was saved for us. If it had been destroyed, we should have lost
the work of one of the best storytellers that have ever lived.

Livy, too, was a friend of the Emperor Augustus, He lived in Rome, enjoying his companions,
the libraries of the city, and, most of all, his independence. Even Virgil was ready to insert
a few lines here and there in a poem to gratify his friends, or to choose a subject that he
knew would please the Emperor; but Livy wrote on the subject that pleased him and treated it
just as he believed to be best. His great work was his history, and this he begins with a little
preface, as independent as it is graceful. "Whether I shall gain any share of glory," he says,
"by writing a history of the Roman people, I do not know. The work, however, will be a pleasure
to me; and even if any fame that might otherwise be mine should be hidden by the success of
other writers, I shall console myself by thinking of their excellence and greatness." No such
thing happened, however, for the kindly historian was so praised and his work so fully appreciated
that he said he had all the fame he could wish.

Herodotus was a Greek who liked to travel. The world was very small in his day, for little
of it was known except some of the lands bordering on the Mediterranean. To visit Tyre, Babylon,
Egypt, Palestine, and the islands of the eastern Mediterranean, as he did, made a man a great
traveler five centuries before Christ. Herodotus enjoyed all these wanderings, but they also
"meant business" to him. Whenever he came to a place of historical interest, he stayed awhile.
He explored the country thereabouts, he measured the important buildings, he talked with the
people who knew most about the place. Then, when he came to write of its history, he did not
write like a man who had read an article or two in an encyclopædia and was trying to recite
what he had learned, but like one who knew the place which he was describing and liked to talk
about it, and about what had happened there. It is no wonder that his history has always been
a favorite; and to be a favorite author for twenty centuries is no small glory.

Ovid was a Latin poet who knew how to tell a story. He could not only invent a tale, but he
could tell it so well that the reader feels as if it must be true. His most interesting stories,
however, he did not invent, for they are a rewriting of the old mythological tales. In one
respect he is like Homer; he never forgets the little things, and he tells so many details
that we can hardly believe he is imagining them. In his story of Baucis and Philemon, for instance,
Ovid does not forget to say that the cottage door was so low that the two gods had to stoop
to pass through it; that Baucis hurried to brighten the fire with dry leaves and bits of bark;
that one leg of the table was too short and had to be propped up with a piece of tile. He tells
us that the kindhearted couple tried to catch their one goose so as to cook it for the supper
of their guests; but that they were so old, and the goose so nimble of wing, that he escaped
them and flew to the Gods for refuge. We are so accustomed to think of Latin as a grave, dignified
language that almost every line of Ovid's "Metamorphoses" is a pleasant surprise. The stories
that he tells, "The Miraculous Pitcher", "The Golden Touch", "The Pomegranate Seeds", and others,
retold by Hawthorne, are favorites among the boys and girls of to-day, and they must have been
liked just as well by the Roman children. In Rome the children read the great poets in school,
and I fancy that they were always glad when the hour came to read the "Metamorphoses." So great
a king was he, that he kept a small army constantly employed in supplying the royal household
with food, and another small army was required to keep the gardens of the palace in order.
And had any one been bold enough to doubt the greatness of the king, he need only have looked
at his magnificent dress to set all doubts at rest forever. Upon the neck of the king was a
heavy necklace, glittering with priceless jewels, and on his arms were massive bracelets of
pure gold. A golden serpent, the symbol of royalty, gleamed from his forehead, and his golden
breastplate showed the sacred beetle worked in precious stones, to protect him from evil spirits.
Whenever he appeared in the streets of his capital, he was borne in the royal chair on the
shoulders of eight of his courtiers, while on each side walked a great noble carrying a fan,
shaped like a palm leaf, with a long, straight stem. In front marched the bodyguard of Sardinians,
men with fair skins and blue eyes, who looked very much out of place among the swarthy Egyptians;
and last of all came the grim, black guards from Ethiopia, with their sabres flashing in the
sun. And all the people fell on their faces and kissed the dust before their royal master.
Moreover, King Rhampsinitus erected several enormous statues of himself, as well as many fine
palaces and a beautiful temple, bearing inscriptions which related all his great and glorious
deeds, so that the people who lived after him might know how great a king he had been.

But, in spite of all his greatness, there was one thing that prevented King Rhampsinitus from
being a happy man. He had so many treasures--masses of silver, nuggets of gold, and bags of
gold-dust, jewelry, precious stones, and carvings in ivory--that he lived in constant fear
of being robbed. He had all his treasures packed in large jars and strong chests, which were
securely fastened, sealed up, and stowed away in a strong room of the palace; but even then
he did not feel comfortable, for might not the palace be broken into by a clever thief and
part of his treasure stolen, while he slept? Besides, there was so much treasure packed away
already, that it was difficult to find a safe place for any more. His anxiety made the king
so unhappy, and caused him so many sleepless nights, that he determined at last to build a
large chamber of stone, with walls too thick for any thief to break through. He sent for his
chief architect, who collected a great multitude of workmen and set to work building the chamber
without delay. Whole villages were compelled to join in the work; even the old men and children
were employed in carrying away rubbish, bringing water and clay, and doing other work that
was not too hard for them. The stronger and more skillful workmen hewed great blocks of granite,
which were dragged to the place on wooden sledges; and, as they had no cranes to lift the stones
into their places on the walls, they were obliged to build mounds of sand and rough bricks,
and roll up each stone gradually with wooden levers, until they got it into its proper place.
It was terribly hard work, but there were so many workmen, and the foremen used their whips
so unmercifully, that the walls rose very rapidly.

Now the architect was a cunning man, and guessed what the chamber was intended to hold. He
therefore fitted one stone in such a way that it would slide down and leave a hole just large
enough for a man to crawl through; and yet, when you looked at the wall, there was no sign
at all by which the secret could be discovered. Nor did the architect think it necessary to
mention the secret opening to his majesty, when he showed the chamber to him and told him that
it was as strong as he could make it.

Rhampsinitus lost no time in moving his treasures into the new treasure-chamber. The key he
kept with him night and day, so that at last he could sleep peacefully, knowing that any one
who wished to pass the solid, brass-bound door, must first prevail upon him to unlock it.

For some time all went well. The king went to the treasury every morning, and found everything
in its place. Evidently he had been too clever for the thieves.

In the mean time the architect was lying ill in bed, and day by day he grew weaker and weaker;
until at length he knew that his end was approaching, and, calling his two sons to his bedside,
he told them of the secret way into the treasure-chamber.

"I have little of my own to leave you, my sons," he said, "and I have but little influence
at court; but by the aid of this secret, which I devised for your sake, you may become rich
men, and hold the office of king's treasurers for life."

The young men were delighted at his words, and so impatient were they to enjoy their good fortune,
that on the very night of their father's funeral they stole away quietly to the place where
the treasure-house stood. They found the sliding stone exactly as their father had described
it. The younger and slimmer of the two brothers crawled through the opening and found himself
in a dark chamber, surrounded by heavy chests and jars with sealed covers. Breaking open one
of the latter, he put in his hand and drew out a handful of gold, which sparkled and twinkled
at him even in the faint light which came through the hole in the wall. Handful after handful
he drew out and passed to his brother, at the same time filling the bags he had brought with
him, until both had as much as they could conveniently carry. Then they replaced the stone,
and returned to lay the treasure before their mother; for in those days stealing was considered
rather a clever trick, and even the thief's mother did not scold him, so long as he was not
so clumsy as to be caught.

Imagine the consternation of King Rhampsinitus when he visited the chamber the following morning!
Everything seemed as secure as ever, and yet, when he opened the door, there lay one of the
great jars turned over and empty, while the lid of one of the chests was broken open and part
of the contents scattered on the floor. He examined every nook and cranny of the chamber from
floor to ceiling, and there was no sign of any one's having forced an entrance. The fastenings
of the door were firm, and the lock was one which it was perfectly impossible to pick. For
greater security, however, Rhampsinitus sent at once for a locksmith, and commanded him to
fit the door with a second lock, the key of which he kept with the other.

Notwithstanding this precaution, the treasure-chamber was robbed again on the next night, and
this time the thieves had broken open a great many of the chests, and carried away some of
the most valuable jewels. On the following night a sentinel was posted, and still the treasury
was robbed. The sentinel vowed that he had stood with his back to the door all night, and there
is little doubt that he spoke the truth, though the poor fellow was accused of sleeping at
his post, and punished for his negligence.

Then the king took counsel of the fan-bearer on the right hand, who was also prime minister.
He made a long speech, beginning with his regret that his majesty had not thought fit to consult
him earlier, and concluding with a learned discourse on the habits of rats.

"This is all very interesting," said Rhampsinitus, "but I do not see that it helps very much
to protect my treasure."

"I crave your majesty's pardon," the prime minister answered. "I was about to observe that
the best way to catch a rat is first to study the habits and tastes of the rat, and next to
apply the knowledge so gained in setting a trap."

From which one may see that the prime minister was a very learned man, and could not be expected
to come to the point all at once. The king thanked him for his valuable advice, and procured
two or three powerful man-traps, which he placed within his treasure-chamber.

Night came on, and the two thieves set to work as before, but no sooner had the younger brother
disappeared through the hole in the wall than he began to utter loud cries of agony.

"Peace, brother! You will rouse the guard," said the elder. "What can have befallen you?"

The other controlled himself, and said with a groan, "Ladronius, we are ruined. I am held fast
in a trap, and I think my leg is broken. O Horus, Lord of Life, deliver me!"

With some difficulty Ladronius crawled through the opening to aid his brother, for, though
a thief, he was no coward.

"Go back, Ladronius, go back!" cried his brother. "Leave me to my fate! I think I hear the
cries of the guard. No, brother, waste no more time!" he entreated, as Ladronius tugged in
vain at the cruel teeth of the trap. "One thing remains to be done. Cut off my head, and take
it away with you, that I may not be recognized and so we both perish! I hear the footsteps
of men approaching. Do not rob our mother of both her sons!"

And Ladronius, seeing that there was nothing else to be done, drew his sword, cut off his brother's
head, and escaped through the opening, not forgetting to replace the stone behind him. He was
only just in time, for scarcely had he gained the cover of a clump of trees, when the soldiers
of the guard came running to the place and began to belabor the door. To their surprise they
found everything quiet and nothing displaced. They examined the outside of the building thoroughly,
and then, supposing that they had been roused by a false alarm, they returned to the palace.

In the morning, Rhampsinitus paid his daily visit to the chamber, and discovered the headless
body in the trap. He was more puzzled than ever. He examined the fastenings of the door and
the whole of the chamber over and over again, and no hole nor crevice could he find.

"Nevertheless," said he, "I have now bait for my trap. What can I do better than set a thief
to catch a thief?"

So he ordered the body to be hung from the outer wall of the chamber, and placed sentinels
to guard it, strictly charging them to bring before him any one who showed pity or sorrow for
the dead.

When the mother heard of her son's death and how the body had been treated, she reproached
Ladronius bitterly for his cowardice, and implored him with many tears to bring back the body
for proper burial. For the Egyptians thought that unless a man's body were properly embalmed
and buried whole, he could have no life in the next world; so that it would be a terrible misfortune
if the head and the body were buried separately. Ladronius attempted to comfort his mother,
but did not dare to carry off his brother's body so long as the sentinels were watching. In
vain his mother wept and entreated him, until at last her grief was turned to anger, and she
vowed that, if he did not obey her, she would go to the king and tell him the whole story.
Then Ladronius, seeing her so determined, promised to do as she wished, and set his wits to
work to invent some means of carrying off the body without being caught by the sentinels. At
last he thought of a plan, which seemed to have some chance of success. He hired two donkeys,
and having bought some wineskins, which were used in the place of bottles, he filled them with
strong wine and placed them on the donkeys' backs.

Thus equipped, and dressed up to look like an old merchant, he set out for the place where
his brother's body was suspended. When he drew near to the sentinels, he secretly loosened
some of the strings which fastened the necks of the wineskins, and then whipping the donkeys
and letting them run on a little way in front, he pursued them with loud cries.

"Oh, miserable wretch that I am!" he cried, beating his head and looking the very picture of
despair. "All my good wine wasted on the ground! What shall I do? Oh, what shall I do? Stop,
most ungrateful of donkeys, children of Set, that devour my substance and waste my wine as
if it were water! May Tefnet plague you with gadflies, and Renenutet poison the thistles! Oh
dear! oh dear! I am a ruined man."

The soldiers, supposing it to be a genuine accident, laughed loudly at the fellow's distress,
and while some chased and caught the donkeys, the others brought bowls and pitchers and began
to drink the wine, as it ran out of the skins.

"Never mind, worthy sir!" they said to Ladronius. "The wine is serving a very good purpose.
Here is to our future friendship and your excellency's very good health!"

Ladronius pretended to fly into a great passion, and called them thieves and monsters of iniquity
for robbing a poor man of his wine.

"Ay, laugh away!" he cried. "But a day of reckoning will come for your wickedness. See how
the law treats robbers!" And he pointed to his brother's body hanging on the wall.

"Now, by Anubis, the fellow speaks truth," said one of the soldiers. "We are but sorry fellows
to drink away a poor man's living, and if this were to come to the ears of the king, we should
be in evil case for leaving our duty."

The others laughed good-humoredly, as they tied up some of the skins, and did their best to
put the merchant into a good temper. Ladronius, after a little more grumbling, appeared to
be pacified, and, as a sign of good-will, presented a wineskin to the soldier who had first
spoken in his favor.

