Here the Wards had been since their arrival.  Their frame-house, near the verdant bank of the
river, was being finished for them; and a great brass plate, with Henry's new name and his
profession, had already adorned the door.  The furniture was coming; Cousin Deborah had hunted
up a Cleopatra Betsy, who might perhaps stay with them if she were treated on terms of equality,
a field was to be brought into cultivation as soon as any labour could be had.  Minna was looking
infinitely better already, and Averil and Cora were full of designs for rival housewifery,
Averil taking lessons meantime in ironing, dusting, and the arts of the kitchen, and trusting
that in the two years' time, the skeletons would have given place--if not indeed to houses,
to well-kept fields.  Such was her account.

How much was reserved for fear of causing anxiety?  Who could guess?

CHAPTER XXI

                   Quanto si fende
  La rocca per dar via a chi va suso
  N'andai 'nfino ove'l cerchiar si prende
  Com'io nel quinto giro fui dischiuso
  Vidi gente per esso che piangea
  Glacendo a terra tutta volta in giuso
  Adhaesit pavimento anima mia
  Sentia dir loro con si alti sospiri
  Che la parola appena s'intendea.
  'O eletti di Deo, i cui soffriri
  E giustizia e speranza fan men duri--'
                               DANTE. Purgatorio

Ah, sir, we have learnt the way to get your company,' said Hector Ernescliffe, as he welcomed
his father-in-law at Maplewood; 'we have only to get under sentence.'

'Sick or sorry, Hector; that's the attraction to an old doctor.'

'And,' added Hector, with the importance of his youthful magisterial dignity, 'I hope I have
arranged matters for you to see him.  I wrote about it; but I am afraid you will not be able
to see him alone.'

Great was the satisfaction with which Hector took the conduct of the expedition to Portland
Island; though he was inclined to encumber it with more lionizing than the good Doctor's full
heart was ready for. Few words could he obtain, as in the bright August sunshine they steamed
out from the pier at Weymouth, and beheld the gray sides of the island, scarred with stone
quarries, stretching its lengthening breakwater out on one side, and on the other connected
with the land by the pale dim outline of the Chesill Bank.  The water was dancing in golden
light; white-sailed or red-sailed craft plied across it; a ship of the line lay under the lee
of the island, practising gunnery, the three bounds of her balls marked by white columns of
spray each time of touching the water, pleasure parties crowded the steamer; but to Dr. May
the cheerfulness of the scene made a depressing contrast to the purpose of his visit, as he
fixed his eyes on the squared outline of the crest of the island, and the precipitous slope
from thence to the breakwater, where trains of loaded trucks rushed forth to the end, discharged
themselves, and hurried back.

Landing at the quay, in the midst of confusion, Hector smiled at the Doctor's innocent proposal
of walking, and bestowed him in a little carriage, with a horse whose hard-worked patience
was soon called out, as up and up they went, through the narrow, but lively street, past the
old-fashioned inn, made memorable by a dinner of George III.; past the fossil tree, clamped
against a house like a vine; past heaps of slabs ready for transport, a church perched up high
on the slope, and a parsonage in a place that looked only accessible to goats.  Lines of fortification
began to reveal themselves, and the Doctor thought himself arrived, but he was to wind further
on, and be more struck with the dreariness and inhospitality of the rugged rock, almost bare
of vegetation, the very trees of stone, and older than our creation; the melancholy late ripening
harvest within stone walls, the whole surface furrowed by stern rents and crevices riven by
nature, or cut into greater harshness by the quarries hewn by man. The grave strangeness of
the region almost marked it out for a place of expiation, like the mountain rising desolate
from the sea, where Dante placed his prisoners of hope.

The walls of a vast enclosure became visible; and over them might be seen the tops of great
cranes, looking like the denuded ribs of umbrellas.  Buildings rose beyond, with deep arched
gateways; and a small town was to be seen further off.  Mr. Ernescliffe sent in his card at
the governor's house, and found that the facilities he had asked for had been granted.  They
were told that the prisoner they wished to see was at work at some distance; and while he was
summoned, they were to see the buildings.  Dr. May had little heart for making a sight of them,
except so far as to judge of Leonard's situation; and he was passively conducted across a gravelled
court, turfed in the centre, and containing a few flower-beds, fenced in by Portland's most
natural productions, zamias and ammonites, together with a few stone coffins, which had once
inclosed corpses of soldiers of the Roman garrison. Large piles of building inclosed the quadrangle;
and passing into the first of these, the Doctor began to realize something of Leonard's present
existence.  There lay before him the broad airy passage, and either side the empty cells of
this strange hive, as closely packed, and as chary of space, as the compartments of the workers
of the honeycomb.

'Just twice as wide as a coffin,' said Hector, doing the honours of one, where there was exactly
width to stand up between the bed and the wall of corrugated iron; 'though, happily, there
is more liberality of height.'

There was a ground glass window opposite to the door, and a shelf, holding a Bible, Prayer
and hymn book, and two others, one religious, and one secular, from the library.  A rust-coloured
jacket, with a black patch marked with white numbers, and a tarpaulin hat, crossed with two
lines of red paint on the crown, hung on the wall.  The Doctor asked for Leonard's cell, but
it was in a distant gallery, and he was told that when he had seen one, he had seen all.  He
asked if these were like those that Leonard had previously inhabited at Milbank and Pentonville,
and hearing that they were on the same model, he almost gasped at the thought of the young
enterprising spirit thus caged for nine weary months, and to whom this bare confined space
was still the only resting-place.  He could not look by any means delighted with the excellence
of the arrangements, grant it though he might; and he was hurried on to the vast kitchens,
their ranges of coppers full of savoury steaming contents, and their racks of loaves looking
all that was substantial and wholesome; but his eyes were wandering after the figures engaged
in cooking, to whom he was told such work was a reward; he was trying to judge how far they
could still enjoy life; but he turned from their stolid low stamp of face with a sigh, thinking
how little their condition could tell him of that of a cultivated nature.

He was shown the chapel, unfortunately serving likewise for a schoolroom; the centre space
fitted for the officials and their families, the rest with plain wooden benches.  But it was
not an hour for schooling, and he went restlessly on to the library, to gather all the consolation
he could from seeing that the privation did not extend to that of sound and interesting literature.
He had yet to see the court, where the prisoners were mustered at half-past five in the morning,
thence to be marched off in their various companies to work. He stood on the terrace from which
the officials marshalled them, and he was called on to look at the wide and magnificent view
of sea and land; but all he would observe to Hector was, 'That boy's throat has always been
tender since the fever.'  He was next conducted to the great court, the quarry of the stones
of the present St. Paul's, and where the depression of the surface since work began there,
was marked by the present height of what had become a steep conical edifice, surmounted by
a sort of watch-tower.  There he grew quite restive, and hearing a proposal of taking him to
the Verne Hill works half a mile off, he declared that Hector was welcome to go; he should
wait for his boy.

Just then the guide pointed out at some distance a convict approaching under charge of a warder;
and in a few seconds more, the Doctor had stepped back to a small room, where, by special favour,
he was allowed to be with the prisoner, instead of seeing him through a grating, but only in
the presence of a warder, who was within hearing, though not obtrusively so.  Looking, to recognize,
not to examine, he drew the young man into his fatherly embrace.

'You have hurt your hands,' was his first word, at the touch of the bruised fingers and broken
skin.

'They are getting hardened,' was the answer, in an alert tone, that gave the Doctor courage
to look up and meet an unquenched glance; though there was the hollow look round the eyes that
Tom had noticed, the face had grown older, the expression more concentrated, the shoulders
had rounded; the coarse blue shirt and heavy boots were dusty with the morning's toil, and
the heat and labour of the day had left their tokens, but the brow was as open, the mouth as
ingenuous as ever, the complexion had regained a hue of health, and the air of alacrity and
exhilaration surprised as much as it gratified the visitor.

'What is your work?' he asked.

'Filling barrows with stones, and wheeling them to the trucks for the breakwater,' answered
Leonard, in a tone like satisfaction.  'But pray, if you are so kind, tell me,' he continued,
with anxiety that he could not suppress, 'what is this about war in America?'

'Not near Indiana; no fear of that, I trust.  But how did you know, Leonard?'

'I saw, for one moment at a time, in great letters on a placard of the contents of newspapers,
at the stations as we came down here, the words, 'Civil War in America;' and it has seemed
to be in the air here ever since.  But Averil has said nothing in her letters.  Will it affect
them?'

The Doctor gave a brief sketch of what was passing, up to the battle of Bull Run; and his words
were listened to with such exceeding avidity, that he was obliged to spend more minutes than
he desired on the chances of the war, and the Massissauga tidings, which he wished to make
sound more favourable than he could in conscience feel that they were; but when at last he
had detailed all he knew from Averil's letters, and it had been drunk in with glistening eyes,
and manner growing constantly less constrained, he led back to Leonard himself: 'Ethel will
write at once to your sister when I get home; and I think I may tell her the work agrees with you.'

'Yes; and this is man's work; and it is for the defences,' he added, with a sparkle of the eye.

'Very hard and rough,' returned the Doctor, looking again at the wounded hands and hard-worked air.

'Oh, but to put out one's strength again, and have room!' cried the boy, eagerly.

'Was it not rather a trying change at first?'

'To be sure I was stiff, and didn't know how to move in the morning, but that went off fast
enough; and I fill as many barrows a day as any one in our gang.'

'Then I may tell your sister you rejoice in the change?'

'Why, it's work one does not get deadly sick of, as if there was no making one's self do it,'
said Leonard, eagerly; 'it is work! and besides, here is sunshine and sea.  I can get a sight
of that every day; and now and then I can get a look into the bay, and Weymouth--looking like
the old time.'  That was his first sorrowful intonation; but the next had the freshness of
his age, 'And there are thistles!'

'Thistles?'

'I thought you cared for thistles; for Miss May showed me one at Coombe; but it was not like
what they are here--the spikes pointing out and pointing in along the edges of the leaves,
and the scales lapping over so wonderfully in the bud.'

'Picciola!' said the Doctor to himself; and aloud,  'Then you have time to enjoy them?'

'When we are at work at a distance, dinner is brought out, and there is an hour and a half
of rest; and on Sunday we may walk about the yards. You should have seen one of our gang, when
I got him to look at the chevaux de frise round a bud, how he owned it was a regular patent
invention; it just answered to Paley's illustration.'

'What, the watch?' said the Doctor, seeing that the argument had been far from trite to his
young friend.  'So you read Paley?'

'I read all such books as I could get up there,' he answered; 'they gave one something to think
about.'

'Have you no time for reading here?'

'Oh, no!  I am too sleepy to read except on school days and Sundays,' he said, as if this were
a great achievement.

'And your acquaintance--is he a reader of Paley too?'

'I believe the chaplain set him on it.  He is a clerk, like me, and not much older.  He is
a regular Londoner, and can hardly stand the work; but he won't give in if he can help it,
or we might not be together.'

Much the Doctor longed to ask what sort of a friend this might be, but the warder's presence
forbade him; and he could only ask what they saw of each other.

'We were near one another in school at Pentonville, and knew each other's faces quite well,
so that we were right glad to be put into the same gang.  We may walk about the yard together
on Sunday evening too.'

The Doctor had other questions on his lips that he again restrained, and only asked whether
the Sundays were comfortable days.

'Oh, yes,' said Leonard, eagerly; but then he too recollected the official, and merely said
something commonplace about excellent sermons, adding, 'And the singing is admirable.  Poor
Averil would envy such a choir as we have!  We sing so many of the old Bankside hymns.'

'To make your resemblance to Dante's hill of penitence complete, as Ethel says,' returned the
Doctor.

'I should like it to be a hill of purification!' said Leonard, understanding him better than
he had expected.

'It will, I think,' said the Doctor, 'to one at least.  I am comforted to see you so brave.
I longed to come sooner, but--'

'I am glad you did not.'

'How?'  But he did not pursue the question, catching from look and gesture, that Leonard could
hardly have then met him with self-possession; and as the first bulletin of recovery is often
the first disclosure of the severity of an illness, so the Doctor was more impressed by the
prisoner's evident satisfaction in his change of circumstances, than he would have been by
mere patient resignation; and he let the conversation be led away to Aubrey's prospects, in
which Leonard took full and eager interest.

'Tell Aubrey I am working at fortifications too,' he said, smiling.

'He could not go to Cambridge without you.'

'I don't like to believe that,' said Leonard, gravely; 'it is carrying the damage I have done
further: but it can't be.  He always was fond of mathematics, and of soldiering.  How is it
at the old mill?' he added, suddenly.

'It is sold.'

'Sold?' and his eyes were intently fixed on the Doctor.

'Yes, he is said to have been much in debt long before; but it was managed quietly--not advertised
in the county papers.  He went to London, and arranged it all.  I saw great renovations going
on at the mill, when I went to see old Hardy.'

'Good old Hardy! how is he?'

'Much broken.  He never got over the shock; and as long as that fellow stayed at the mill,
he would not let me attend him.'

'Ha!' exclaimed Leonard, but caught himself up.

A message came that Mr. Ernescliffe feared to miss the boat; and the Doctor could only give
one tender grasp and murmured blessing, and hurry away, so much agitated that he could hardly
join in Hector's civilities to the officials, and all the evening seemed quite struck down
and overwhelmed by the sight of the bright brave boy, and his patience in his dreary lot.

After this, at all the three months' intervals at which Leonard might be seen, a visit was
contrived to him, either by Dr. May or Mr. Wilmot; and Aubrey devoted his first leave of absence
to staying at Maplewood, that Hector might take him to his friend; but he came home expatiating
so much on the red hair of the infant hope of Maplewood, and the fuss that Blanche made about
this new possession, that Ethel detected an unavowed shade of disappointment.  Light and whitewash,
abundant fare, garments sufficient, but eminently unbecoming, were less impressive than dungeons,
rags, and bread and water; when, moreover, the prisoner claimed no pity, but rather congratulation
on his badge of merit, improved Sunday dinner, and promotion to the carpenter's shop, so as
absolutely to excite a sense of wasted commiseration and uninteresting prosperity.  Conversation
constrained both by the grating and the presence of the warder, and Aubrey, more tenderly sensitive
than his brother, and devoid of his father's experienced tact, was too much embarrassed to
take the initiative, was afraid of giving pain by dwelling on his present occupations and future
hopes, and confused Leonard by his embarrassment.  Hector Ernescliffe discoursed about Charleston
Harbour and New Orleans; and Aubrey stood with downcast eyes, afraid to seem to be scanning
the convict garb, and thus rendering Leonard unusually conscious of wearing it.  Then when
in parting, Aubrey, a little less embarrassed, began eagerly and in much emotion to beg Leonard
to say if there was anything he could get for him, anything he could do for him, anything he
would like to have sent him, and began to promise a photograph of his father, Leonard checked
him, by answering that it would be an irregularity--nothing of personal property was allowed
to be retained by a prisoner.

Aubrey forgot all but the hardship, and began an outburst about the tyranny.

'It is quite right,' said Leonard, gravely; 'there is nothing that might not be used for mischief
if one chose.'

And the warder here interfered, and said he was quite right, and it always turned out best
in the end for a prisoner to conform himself, and his friends did him no good by any other
attempt, as Mr. Ernescliffe could tell the young gentleman.  The man's tone, though neither
insolent nor tyrannical, but rather commendatory of his charge, contrasting with his natural
deference to the two gentlemen, irritated poor Aubrey beyond measure, so that Hector was really
glad to have him safe away, without his having said anything treasonable to the authorities.
The meeting, so constrained and uncomfortable, had but made the friends more vividly conscious
of the interval between the cadet and the convict, and, moreover, tended to remove the aureole
of romance with which the unseen captive had been invested by youthful fancy.

To make the best of a prolonged misfortune does absolutely lessen sympathy, by diminishing
the interest of the situation; and even the good Doctor himself was the less concerned at any
hindrance to his visits to Portland, as he uniformly found his prisoner cheerful, approved
by officials, and always making some small advance in the scale of his own world, and not,
as his friends without expected of him, showing that he felt himself injured instead of elated
by such rewards as improved diet, or increased gratuities to be set to his account against
the time when, after eight years, he might hope for exportation with a ticket of leave to Western
Australia.

The halo of approaching death no longer lighted him up, and after the effusion of the first
meeting, his inner self had closed up, he was more ready to talk of American news than of his
own feelings, and seemed to look little beyond the petty encouragements devised to suit the
animal natures of ordinary prisoners, and his visitors sometimes feared lest his character
were not resisting the deadening, hardening influence of the unvaried round of manual labour
among such associates. He had been soon advanced from the quarry to the carpenter's shop, and
was in favour there from his activity and skill; but his very promotions were sad--and it was
more sad, as some thought, for him to be gratified by them.  But, as Dr. May always ended,
what did they know about him?

CHAPTER XXII

  Oh, Bessie Bell and Mary Grey,
  They were twa bonnie lasses;
  They bigged a bower on yon burn side,
  And theekt it over wi' rashes.

The early glory of autumn was painting the woods of Indiana--crimson, orange, purple, as though
a rainbow of intensified tints had been broken into fragments, and then scattered broadcast
upon the forest. But though ripe nuts hung on many a bough, the gipsyings had not yet taken
place, except at home--when Minna, in her desperate attempts at making the best of things,
observed, 'Now we have to make the fire ourselves, let us think it is all play, and such fun.'

But 'such fun' was hard when one or other of the inmates of the house was lying on the bed
shaking with ague, and the others creeping wearily about, even on their intermediate days.
They had been deluded into imprudent exposure in the lovely evenings of summer, and had never
shaken off the results.

'Come, Ella,' said Minna, one afternoon, as she descended the bare rickety stairs, 'Ave is
getting better; and if we can get the fire up, and make some coffee and boil some eggs, it
will be comfortable for her when she comes down and Henry comes in.'

Ella, with a book in her hand, was curled up in a corner of a sofa standing awry among various
other articles of furniture that seemed to have tumbled together by chance within the barn-like
room.  Minna began moving first one and then the other, daintily wiping off the dust, and restoring
an air of comfort.

'Oh dear!' said Ella, unfolding herself; 'I am so tired.  Where's Hetta Mary?'

'Oh, don't you know, Hetta Mary went home this morning because Henry asked her where his boots
were, and she thought he wanted her to clean them.'

'Can't Mrs. Shillabeer come in!'

'Mrs. Shillabeer said she would never come in again, because Averil asked her not to hold the
ham by the bone and cut it with her own knife when Henry was there!  Come, Ella it is of no
use.  We had better do things ourselves, like Cora and Ave, and then we shall not hear people
say disagreeable things.'

The once soft, round, kitten-like Minna, whom Leonard used to roll about on the floor, had
become a lank, sallow girl, much too tall for her ten years, and with a care-stricken, thoughtful
expression on her face, even more in advance of her age than was her height.  She moved into
the kitchen, a room with an iron stove, a rough table, and a few shelves, looking very desolate.
The hands of both little girls had become expert in filling the stove with wood, and they had
not far to seek before both it and the hearth in the sitting-room were replenished, and the
flame beginning to glow.

'Where's the coffee-mill?' said Minna, presently, looking round in blank despair.

'Oh dear!' said Ella, 'I remember now; that dirty little Polly Mason came to borrow it this
morning.  I said we wanted it every day: but she guessed we could do without it, for they had
got a tea-party, and her little brother had put in a stone and spoilt Cora Muller's; and she
snatched it up and carried it off.'

'He will serve ours the same, I suppose,' said Minna.  'It is too far off to go for it; let
us make some tea.'

'There's no tea,' said Ella; 'a week ago or more that great Irene Brown walked in and reckoned
we could lend her 'ma some tea and sugar, 'cause we had plenty.  And we have used up our own
since; and if we did ask her to return the loan, hers is such nasty stuff that nobody could
drink it. What shall we do, Minna?' and she began to cry.

'We must take some coffee up to the hotel,' said Minna, after a moment's reflection; 'Black
Joe is very good-natured, and he'll grind it.'

'But I don't like to go ail by myself,' said Ella; 'into the kitchen too, and hear them say
things about Britishers.'

'I'll go, dear,' said Minna, gently, 'if you will just keep the fire up, and boil the eggs,
and make the toast, and listen if Ave calls.'

Poor Minna, her sensitive little heart trembled within her at the rough contemptuous words
that the exclusive, refined tone of the family always provoked, and bodily languor and weariness
made the walk trying; but she was thinking of Ave's need, and resolutely took down her cloak
and hat.  But at that moment the latch was raised, and the bright graceful figure of Cora stood
among them, her feathered hat and delicate muslin looking as fresh as at New York.

'What, all alone!' she said; 'I know it is poor Ave's sick day.  Is she better?'

'Yes, going to get up and come down; but--' and all the troubles were poured out.

'True enough, the little wretch did spoil our mill, but Rufus mended it; and as I thought Polly
had been marauding on you, I brought some down.'

'Ah!  I thought I smelt it most deliciously as you came in, but I was afraid I only fancied
it because I was thinking about it.  Dear Cora, how good you are!'

'And have you anything for her to eat?'

'I was going to make some toast.'

'Of that dry stuff!  Come, we'll manage something better:' and off came the dainty embroidered
cambric sleeves, up went the coloured ones, a white apron came out of a pocket, and the pretty
hands were busy among the flour; the children assisting, learning, laughing a childlike laugh.

'Ah!' cried Cora, turning round, and making a comic threatening gesture with her floury fingers;
'you ought not to have come till we were fixed.  Go and sit in your chair by the fire.'

'Dear Cora!'

But Cora ran at her, and the wan trembling creature put on a smile, and was very glad to comply;
being totally unequal to resist or even to stand long enough to own her dread of Henry's finding
all desolate and nothing to eat.

Presently Cora tripped in, all besleeved and smartened, to set cushions behind the tired back
and head, and caress the long thin fingers. 'I've left Minna, like King Alfred, to watch the
cakes,' she said; 'and Ella is getting the cups.  So your fifth girl is gone.'

'The fifth in five months!  And we let her sit at table, and poor dear Minna has almost worn
out her life in trying to hinder her from getting affronted.'

'I've thought what to do for you, Ave.  There's the Irish woman, Katty Blake--her husband has
been killed.  She is rough enough, but tender in her way; and she must do something for herself
and her child.'

'Her husband killed!'

'Yes, at Summerville.  I thought you had heard it.  Mordaunt wrote to me to tell her; and I
shall never forget her wailing at his dying away from his country.  It was not lamentation
for herself, but that he should have died far away from his own people.'

'She is not long from the old country; I should like to have her if--if we can afford it. 
For if the dividends don't come soon from that building company, Cora, I don't know where to
turn--'

'Oh, they must come.  Father has been writing to Rufus about the arrangements.  Besides, those
Irish expect less, and understand old country manners better, if you can put up with their
breakages.'

'I could put up with anything to please Henry, and save Minna's little hard-worked bones.'

'I will send her to-morrow.  Is it not Minna's day of ague?'

'Yes, poor dear.  That is always the day we get into trouble.'

'I never saw a child with such an instinct for preventing variance, or so full of tact and
pretty ways; yet I have seen her tremble under her coaxing smile, that even Mis' Shillabeer
can't resist.'

'See, see!' cried Ella, hurrying in, 'surely our contingent is not coming home!'

'No,' said Cora, hastening to the door, 'these must be a reinforcement marching to take the
train at Winiamac.'

'Marching?' said Ella, looking up archly at her.  'We didn't let our volunteers march in that way.'

They were sturdy bearded backwoodsmen, rifle on shoulder, and with grave earnest faces; but
walking rather than marching, irregularly keeping together, or straggling, as they chose.

'Your volunteers!' cried Cora, her eyes flashing; 'theirs was toy work! These are bound for
real patriotic war!' and she clasped her hands together, then waved her handkerchief.

'It is sad,' said Averil, who had moved to the window, 'to see so many elderly faces--men who
must be the prop of their families.'

'It is because ours is a fight of men, not of children; not one of your European wars of paltry
ambition, but a war of principle!' cried Cora, with that intensity of enthusiasm that has shed
so much blood in the break-up of the Great Republic.

'They do look as Cromwell's Ironsides may have done,' said Averil; 'as full of stern purpose.'

And verily Averil noted the difference.  Had a number of European soldiers been passing so
near in an equally undisciplined manner, young women could not have stood forth as Cora was
doing, unprotected, yet perfectly safe from rudeness or remark; making ready answer to the
inquiry for the nearest inn--nay, only wishing she were in her own house, to evince her patriotism
by setting refreshment before the defenders of her cause.  Her ardour had dragged Averil up
with her a little way, so as to feel personally every vicissitude that befell the North, and
to be utterly unaware of any argument in favour of the Confederates; but still Averil was,
in Cora's words, 'too English;' she could not, for the life of her, feel as she did when equipping
her brother against possible French invasions, and when Mordaunt Muller had been enrolled in
the Federal army, she had almost offended the exultant sister by condolence instead of congratulation.

Five months had elapsed since the arrival of Averil in Massissauga--months of anxiety and disappointment,
which had sickened Henry of plans of farming, and lessened his hopes of practice.  The same
causes that affected him at New York told in Indiana; and even if he had been employed, the
fees would have been too small to support the expense of horses.  As to farming, labour was
scarce, and could only be obtained at the cost of a considerable outlay, and, moreover, of
enduring rude self-assertions that were more intolerable to Henry than even to his sisters.
The chief hope of the family lay in the speculation in which Averil's means had been embarked,
which gave them a right to their present domicile, and to a part of the uncleared waste around
them; and would, when Massissauga should begin to flourish, place them in affluence.  The interest
of the portions of the two younger girls was all that was secure, since these were fortunately
still invested at home.  Inhabitants did not come, lots of land were not taken; and the Mullers
evidently profited more by the magnificent harvest produced by their land than by the adventure
of city founding. Still, plenty and comfort reigned in their house, and Cora had imported a
good deal of refinement and elegance, which she could make respected where Averil's attempts
were only sneered down.  Nor had sickness tried her household.  Owing partly to situation--considerably
above the level of River Street--partly to the freer, more cleared and cultivated surroundings--partly
likewise to experience, and Cousin Deborah's motherly watchfulness--the summer had passed without
a visitation of ague, though it seemed to be regarded as an adjunct of spring, as inevitable
as winter frost. Averil trembled at the thought, but there was no escape; there were absolutely
no means of leaving the spot, or of finding maintenance elsewhere.  Indeed, Cora's constant
kindness and sympathy were too precious to be parted with, even had it been possible to move.
After the boarding-house, Massissauga was a kind of home; and the more spirits and energy failed,
the more she clung to it.

Mr. Muller had lately left home to arrange for the sale of his corn, and had announced that
he might perhaps pay a visit to his son Mordaunt in the camp at Lexington.  Cora was expecting
a letter from him, and the hope that 'Dr. Warden' might bring one from the post-office at Winiamac
had been one cause of her visit on this afternoon; for the mammoth privileges of Massissauga
did not include a post-office, nor the sight of letters more than once a week.

The table had just been covered with preparations for a meal, and the glow of the fire was
beginning to brighten the twilight, when the sound of a horse's feet came near, and Henry rode
past the window, but did not appear for a considerable space, having of late been reduced to
become his own groom.  But even in the noise of the hoofs, even in the wave of the hand, the
girls had detected gratified excitement.

'Charleston has surrendered!  The rebels have submitted!' cried Cora.

And Averil's heart throbbed with its one desperate hope.  No!  That would have brought him
in at once.

After all, both were in a state to feel it a little flat when he came in presenting a letter
to Miss Muller, and announcing, 'I have had a proposal, ladies; what would you say to seeing
me a surgeon to the Federal forces?--Do you bid me go, Miss Muller?'

'I bid every one go who can be useful to my country,' said Cora.

'Don't look alarmed, Averil,' said Henry, affectionately, as he met her startled eyes; 'there
is no danger.  A surgeon need never expose himself.'

'But how--what has made you think of it?' asked Averil, faintly.

'A letter from Mr. Muller--a very kind letter.  He tells me that medical men are much wanted,
and that an examination by a Board is all that is required, the remuneration is good, and it
will be an introduction that will avail me after the termination of the war, which will end
with the winter at latest.'

'And father has accepted an office in the commissariat department!' exclaimed Cora, from her
letter.

'Yes,' answered Henry; 'he tells me that, pending more progression here, it is wiser for us
both to launch into the current of public events, and be floated upwards by the stream.'

'Does he want you to come to him, Cora?' was all that Averil contrived to say.

'Oh no, he will be in constant locomotion,' said Cora.  'I shall stay to keep house for Rufus.
And here are some directions for him that I must carry home.  Don't come, Dr. Warden; I shall
never cure you of thinking we cannot stir without an escort.  You will want to put a little
public spirit into this dear Ave.  That's her one defect; and when you are one of us, she will
be forced to give us her heart.'

And away ran the bright girl, giving her caresses to each sister as she went.

The little ones broke out, 'O, Henry, Henry, you must not go away to the wars!' and Averil's
pleading eyes spoke the same.

Then Henry sat down and betook himself to argument.  It would be folly to lose the first opening
to employment that had presented itself.  He grieved indeed to leave his sisters in this desolate,
unhealthy place; but they were as essentially safe as at Stoneborough; their living alone for
a few weeks, or at most months, would be far less remarkable here than there; and he would
be likely to be able to improve or to alter their present situation, whereas they were now
sinking deeper and more hopelessly into poverty every day.  Then, too, he read aloud piteous
accounts of the want of medical attendance, showing that it was absolutely a cruelty to detain
such assistance from the sick and wounded.  This argument was the one most appreciated by Averil
and Minna.  The rest were but questions of prudence; this touched their hearts.  Men lying
in close tents, or in crowded holds of ships, with festering wounds and fevered lips, without
a hand to help them--some, too, whom they had seen at New York, and whose exulting departure
they had witnessed--sufferers among whom their own Cora's favourite brother might at any moment
be numbered--the thought brought a glow of indignation against themselves for having wished
to withhold him.

'Yes, go, Henry; it is right, and you shall hear not another word of objection,' said Averil.

'You can write or telegraph the instant you want me.  And it will be for a short time,' said
Henry, half repenting when the opposition had given way.

'Oh, we shall get on very well,' said Minna, cheerfully; 'better, perhaps for you know we don't
mind Far West manners; and I'll have learnt to do all sorts of things as well as Cora when
you come home!'

And Henry, after a year's famine of practice, was in better spirits than since that fatal summer
morning.  Averil felt how different a man is in his vocation, and deprived of it.

'Oh yes,' she said to herself, 'if I had let ourselves be a drag on him when he is so much
needed, I could never have had the face to write to our dear sufferer at home in his noble
patience.  It is better that we should be desolate than that he should be a wreck, or than
that mass of sickness should be left untended!  And the more desolate, the more sure of One
Protector.'

There was true heroism in the spirit in which this young girl braced herself to uncomplaining
acceptance of desertion in this unwholesome swamp, with her two little ailing sisters, beside
the sluggish stream, amid the skeleton trees--heroism the greater because there was no enthusiastic
patriotism to uphold her--it was only the land of her captivity, whence she looked towards
home like Judah to Jerusalem.

CHAPTER XXIII

  Prisoner of hope thou art; look up and sing,
  In hope of promised spring.
                       Christian Year

In the summer of 1862, Tom May was to go up for his examination at the College of Physicians,
but only a day or two before it he made his appearance at home, in as much excitement as it
was in him to betray. Hazlitt, the banker's clerk at Whitford, had written to him tidings of
the presentation of the missing cheque for £25, which Bilson had paid to old Axworthy shortly
before the murder, and which Leonard had mentioned as in the pocket-book containing his receipt
for the sum that had been found upon him.  Tom had made a halt at Whitford, and seen the cheque,
which had been backed by the word Axworthy, with an initial that, like all such signatures
of the nephew, might stand either for S. or F., and the stiff office hand of both the elder
and younger Axworthy was so much alike, that no one could feel certain whose writing it was.
The long concealment, after the prisoner's pointed reference to it, was, however, so remarkable,
that the home conclave regarded the cause as won; and the father and son hastened triumphantly
to the attorneys' office.

Messrs. Bramshaw and Anderson were greatly struck, and owned that their own minds were satisfied
as to the truth of their client's assertion; but they demurred as to the possibility of further
steps. An action for forgery, Tom's first hope, he saw to be clearly impossible; Samuel Axworthy
appeared to have signed the cheque in his own name, and he had every right to it as his uncle's
heir; and though the long withholding of it, as well as his own departure, were both suspicious
circumstances, they were not evidence.  Where was there any certainty that the cheque had ever
been in the pocket-book or even if it had, how did it prove the existence of young Ward's acknowledgment?
Might it not have been in some receptacle of papers hitherto not opened?  There was no sufficient
case to carry to the police, after a conviction like Leonard's, to set them on tracing the
cheque either to an unknown robber, or to Sam Axworthy, its rightful owner.

Mr. Bramshaw likewise dissuaded Dr. May from laying the case before the Secretary of State,
as importunity without due grounds would only tell against him if any really important discovery
should be made: and the Doctor walked away, with blood boiling at people's coolness to other
folk's tribulations, and greatly annoyed with Tom for having acceded to the representations
of the men of law, and declining all co-operation in drawing up a representation for the Home
Office, on the plea that he had no time to lose in preparing for his own examination, and must
return to town by the next train, which he did without a syllable of real converse with any
one at home.

The Doctor set to work with his home helpers, assisted by Dr. Spencer; but the work of composition
seemed to make the ground give way under their feet, and a few adroit remarks from Dr. Spencer
finally showed him and Ethel that they had not yet attained the prop for the lever that was
to move the world.  He gave it up, but still he did not quite forgive Tom for having been so
easily convinced, and ready to be dismissed to his own affairs.

However, Dr. May was gratified by the great credit with which his son passed his examination,
and took his degree; and Sir Matthew Fleet himself wrote in high terms of his talent, diligence,
and steadiness, volunteering hopes of being able to put him forward in town in his own line,
for which Tom had always had a preference; and adding, that it was in concurrence with his
own recommendation that the young man wished to pursue his studies at Paris--he had given him
introductions that would enable him to do so to the greatest advantage, and he hoped his father
would consent.  The letter was followed up by one from Tom himself, as usual too reasonable
and authoritative to be gainsaid, with the same representation of advantages to be derived
from a course of the Parisian hospitals.

'Ah, well! he is after old Fleet's own heart,' said Dr. May, between pride and mortification.
'I should not grudge poor Fleet some one to take interest in his old age, and I did not look
to see him so warm about anything.  He has not forgotten Calton Hill!  But the boy must have
done very well!  I say, shall we see him Sir Thomas some of these days, Ethel, and laugh at
ourselves for having wanted, to make him go round in a mill after our old fashion?'

'You were contented to run round in your mill,' said Ethel, fondly, 'and maybe he will too.'

'No, no, Ethel, I'll not have him persuaded.  Easy-going folk, too lazy for ambition, have
no right to prescribe for others.  Ambition turned sour is a very dangerous dose!  Much better
let it fly off! I mean to look out of my mill yet, and see Sir Thomas win the stakes. Only
I wish he would come and see us; tell him he shall not hear a word to bother him about the
old practice.  People have lived and died at Stoneborough without a May to help them, and so
they will again, I suppose.'

Ethel was very glad to see how her father had made up his mind to what was perhaps the most
real disappointment of his life, but she was grieved that Tom did not respond to the invitation,
and next wrote from Paris.  It was one of his hurried notes, great contrasts to such elaborate
performances as his recent letter.  'Thanks, many thanks to my father,' he said; 'I knew you
would make him see reason, and he always yields generously.  I was too much hurried to come
home; could not afford to miss the trail.  I had not time to say before that the Bank that
sent the cheque to Whitford had it from a lodging-house in town.  Landlord had a writ served
on S. A.; as he was embarking at Folkestone, he took out the draft and paid.  He knew its import,
if Bramshaw did not.  I hope my father was not vexed at my not staying. There are things I
cannot stand, namely, discussions and Gertrude.'

Gertrude was one of the chief cares upon Ethel's mind.  She spent many thoughts upon the child,
and even talked her over with Flora.

'What is it, Flora? is it my bad management?  She is a good girl, and a dear girl; but there
is such a want of softness about her.'

'There is a want of softness about all the young ladies of the day,' returned Flora.

'I have heard you say so, but--'

'We have made girls sensible and clear-headed, till they have grown hard.  They have been taught
to despise little fears and illusions, and it is certainly not becoming.'

'We had not fears, we were taught to be sensible.'

'Yes, but it is in the influence of the time!  It all tends to make girls independent.'

'That's very well for the fine folks you meet in your visits, but it does not account for my
Daisy--always at home, under papa's eye--having turned nineteenth century--What is it, Flora?
She is reverent in great things, but not respectful except to papa, and that would not have
been respect in one of us--only he likes her sauciness.'

'That is it, partly.'

'No, I won't have that said,' exclaimed Ethel.  'Papa is the only softening influence in the
house--the only one that is tender.  You see it is unlucky that Gertrude has so few that she
really does love, with anything either reverend or softening about them.  She is always at
war with Charles Cheviot, and he has not fun enough, is too lumbering altogether, to understand
her, or set her down in the right way; and she domineers over Hector like the rest of us. 
I did hope the babies might have found out her heart, but, unluckily, she does not take to
them.  She is only bored by the fuss that Mary and Blanche make about them.

'You know we are all jealous of both Charles Cheviots, elder and younger.'

'I often question whether I should not have taken her down and made her ashamed of all the
quizzing and teasing at the time of Mary's marriage. But one cannot be always spoiling bright
merry mischief, and I am only elder sister after all.  It is a wonder she is as good to me
as she is.'

'She never remembered our mother, poor dear.'

'Ah! that is the real mischief,' said Ethel.  'Mamma would have given the atmosphere of gentleness
and discretion, and so would Margaret. How often I have been made, by the merest pained look,
to know when what I said was saucy or in bad taste, and I--I can only look forbidding, or else
blurt out a reproof that will not come softly.'

'The youngest must be spoilt,' said Flora, 'that's an ordinance of nature.  It ends when a
boy goes to school, and when a girl--'

'When?'

'When she marries--or when she finds out what trouble is,' said Flora.

'Is that all you can hold out to my poor Daisy?'

'Well, it is the way of the world.  There is just now a reaction from sentiment, and it is
the less feminine variety.  The softness will come when there is a call for it.  Never mind
when the foundation is safe.'

'If I could only see that child heartily admiring and looking up!  I don't mean love--there
used to be a higher, nobler reverence!'

'Such as you and Norman used to bestow on Shakespeare and Scott, and--the vision of Cocksmoor.'

'Not only used,' said Ethel.

'Yes, it is your soft side,' said Flora; 'it is what answers the purpose of sentiment in people
like you.  It is what I should have thought living with you would have put into any girl; but
Gertrude has a satirical side, and she follows the age.'

'I wish you would tell her so--it is what she especially wants not to do!  But the spirit of
opposition is not the thing to cause tenderness.'

'No, you must wait for something to bring it out.  She is very kind to my poor little Margaret,
and I won't ask how she talks of her.'

'Tenderly; oh yes, that she always would do.'

'There, then, Ethel, if she can talk tenderly of Margaret, there can't be much amiss at the root.'

'No; and you don't overwhelm the naughty girl with baby talk.'

'Like our happy, proud young mothers,' sighed Flora; and then letting herself out--'but indeed,
Ethel, Margaret is very much improved.  She has really begun to wish to be good.  I think she
is struggling with herself.'

'Something to love tenderly, something to reverence highly.'  So meditated Ethel, as she watched
her sunny-haired, open-faced Daisy, so unconquerably gay and joyous that she gave the impression
of sunshine without shade.  There are stages of youth that are in themselves unpleasing, and
yet that are nobody's fault, nay, which may have within them seeds of strength.  Tom's satire
had fostered Daisy's too congenial spirit, and he reaped the consequence in the want of repose
and sympathy that were driving him from home, and shutting him up within himself.  Would he
ever forgive that flippant saying, which Ethel had recollected with shame ever since--shame
more for herself than for the child, who probably had forgotten, long ago, her 'shaft at random
sent'?

Then Ethel would wonder whether, after all, her discontent with Gertrude's speeches was only
from feeling older and graver, and perhaps from a certain resentment at finding how the course
of time was wearing down the sharp edge of compassion towards Leonard.

A little more about Leonard was gathered when the time came of release for his friend the clerk
Brown.  This young man had an uncle at Paris, engaged in one of the many departments connected
with steam that carry Englishmen all over the world, and Leonard obtained permission to write
to Dr. Thomas May, begging him to call upon the uncle, and try if he could be induced to employ
the penitent and reformed nephew under his own eye.  It had been wise in Leonard to write direct,
for if the request had been made through any one at home, Tom would have considered it as impossible;
but he could not resist the entreaty, and his mission was successful.  The uncle was ready
to be merciful, and undertook all the necessary arrangements for, and even the responsibility
of, bringing the ticket-of-leave man to Paris, where he found him a desk in his office.  One
of Tom's few detailed epistles was sent to Ethel after this arrival, when the uncle had told
him how the nephew had spoken of his fellow-prisoner. It was to Leonard Ward that the young
man had owed the inclination to open his heart to religious instruction, hitherto merely endured
as a portion of the general infliction of the penalty, a supposed engine for dealing with the
superstitious, but entirely beneath his attention.  The sight of the educated face had at first
attracted him, but when he observed the reverential manner in chapel, he thought it mere acting
the ''umble prisoner,' till he observed how unobtrusive, unconscious, and retiring was every
token of devotion, and watched the eyes, brightened or softened in praise or in prayer, till
he owned the genuineness and guessed the depth of both, then perceived in school how far removed
his unknown comrade was from the mere superstitious boor.  This was the beginning.  The rest
had been worked out by the instruction and discipline of the place, enforced by the example,
and latterly by the conversation, of his fellow-prisoner, until he had come forth sincerely
repenting, and with the better hope for the future that his sins had not been against full light.

He declared himself convinced that Ward far better merited to be at large than he did, and
told of the regard that uniform good conduct was obtaining at last, though not till after considerable
persecution, almost amounting to personal danger from the worse sort of convicts, who regarded
him as a spy, because he would not connive at the introduction of forbidden indulgences, and
always stood by the authorities.  Once his fearless interposition had saved the life of a warder,
and this had procured him trust, and promotion to a class where his companions were better
conducted, and more susceptible to good influences, and among them Brown was sure that his
ready submission and constant resolution to do his work were producing an effect.  As to his
spirits, Brown had never known him break down but once, and that was when he had come upon
a curious fossil in the stone.  Otherwise he was grave and contented, but never laughed or
joked as even some gentlemen prisoners of more rank and age had been known to do.  The music
in the chapel was his greatest pleasure, and he had come to be regarded as an important element
in the singing.

Very grateful was Dr. May to Tom for having learnt, and still more for having transmitted,
all these details, and Ethel was not the less touched, because she knew they were to travel
beyond Minster Street. Those words of Mr. Wilmot's seemed to be working out their accomplishment;
and she thought so the more, when in early spring one of Leonard's severe throat attacks led
to his being sent after his recovery to assist the schoolmaster, instead of returning to the
carpenter's shed; and he was found so valuable in the school that the master begged to retain
his services.

That spring was a grievous one in Indiana.  The war, which eighteen months previously was to
have come to an immediate end, was still raging, and the successes that had once buoyed up
the Northern States with hope had long since been chequered by terrible reverses.  On, on,
still fought either side, as though nothing could close the strife but exhaustion or extinction;
and still ardent, still constant, through bereavement and privation, were either party to their
blood-stained flag.  Mordaunt Muller had fallen in one of the terrible battles on the Rappahannock;
and Cora, while, sobbing in Averil's arms, had still confessed herself thankful that it had
been a glorious death for his country's cause!  And even in her fresh grief, she had not endeavoured
to withhold her other brother, when, at the urgent summons of Government, he too had gone forth
to join the army.

Cora was advised to return to her friends at New York, but she declared her intention of remaining
to keep house with Cousin Deborah.  Unless Averil would come with her, nothing should induce
her to leave Massissauga, certainly not while Ella and Averil were alternately laid low by
the spring intermittent fever.  Perhaps the fact was that, besides her strong affection for
Averil, she felt that in her ignorance she had assisted her father in unscrupulously involving
them in a hazardous and unsuccessful speculation, and that she was the more bound, in justice
as well as in love and pity, to do her best for their assistance.  At any rate, Rufus had no
sooner left home, than she insisted on the three sisters coming to relieve her loneliness--in
other words, in removing them from the thin ill-built frame house, gaping in every seam with
the effects of weather, and with damp oozing up between every board of the floor, the pestiferous
river-fog, the close air of the forest, and the view of the phantom trees, now decaying and
falling one against another.

Cousin Deborah, who had learnt to love and pity the forlorn English girls, heartily concurred;
and Averil consented, knowing that the dry house and pure air were the best hope of restoring
Ella's health.

Averil and Ella quickly improved, grew stronger in the intervals, and suffered less during
the attacks; but Minna, who in their own house had been less ill, had waited on both, and supplied
the endless deficiencies of the kindly and faithful, but two-fisted Katty; Minna, whose wise
and simple little head had never failed in sensible counsels, or tender comfort; Minna, whom
the rudest and most self-important far-wester never disobliged, Minna, the peace-maker, the
comfort and blessing--was laid low by fever, and fever that, as the experienced eyes of Cousin
Deborah at once perceived, 'meant mischief.' Then it was that the real kindliness of heart
of the rough people of the West showed itself.  The five wild young ladies, whose successive
domestic services had been such trouble, and whose answer to a summons from the parlour had
been, 'Did yer holler, Avy? I thort I heerd a scritch,' each, from Cleopatra Betsy to Hetta
Mary, were constantly rushing in to inquire, or to present questionable dainties and nostrums
from their respective 'Mas'; the charwomen, whom Minna had coaxed in her blandest manner to
save trouble to Averil and disgust to Henry, were officious in volunteers of nursing and sitting
up, the black cook at the hotel sent choice fabrics of jelly and fragrant ice; and even Henry's
rival, who had been so strong against the insolence of a practitioner showing no testimonials,
no sooner came under the influence of the yearning, entreating, but ever-patient eyes, than
his attendance became assiduous, his interest in the case ardent.

Henry himself was in the camp, before Vicksburg, with his hands too full of piteous cases of
wounds and fever to attempt the most hurried visit.

'Sister, dear,' said the soft slow voice, one day when Averil had been hoping her patient was
asleep, 'are you writing to Henry?'

'Yes, my darling.  Do you want to say anything?'

'Oh yes! so much;' and the eyes grew bright, and the breath gasping; 'please beg Henry--tell
Henry--that I must--I can't bear it any longer if I don't--'

'You must what, dear child?  Henry would let you do anything he could.'

'Oh, then, would he let me speak about dear Leonard?' and the child grew deadly white when
the words were spoken; but her eyes still sought Averil's face, and grew terrified at the sight
of the gush of tears. 'O, Ave, Ave, tell me only--he is not dead!' and as Averil could only
make a sign, 'I do have such dreadful fancies about him, and I think I could sleep if I only
knew what was really true.'

'You shall, dear child, you shall, without waiting to hear from Henry; I know he would let you.'

And only then did Averil know the full misery that Henry's decision had inflicted on the gentle
little heart, in childish ignorance, imagining fetters and dungeons, even in her sober waking
moods, and a prey to untold horrors in every dream, exaggerated by feverishness and ailment--horrors
that, for aught she knew, might be veritable, and made more awful by the treatment of his name
as that of one dead.

To hear of him as enjoying the open air and light of day, going to church, singing their own
favourite hymn tunes, and often visited by Dr. May, was to her almost as great a joy as if
she had heard of him at liberty.  And Averil had a more than usually cheerful letter to read
to her, one written in the infirmary during his recovery.  His letters to her were always cheerful,
but this one was particularly so, having been written while exhilarated by the relaxations
permitted to convalescents, and by enjoying an unwonted amount of conversation with the chaplain
and the doctor.

'So glad, so glad,' Minna was heard murmuring to herself again and again; her rest was calmer
than it had been for weeks, and the doctor found her so much better that he trusted that a
favourable change had begun.

But it was only a gleam of hope.  The weary fever held its prey, and many as were the fluctuations,
they always resulted in greater weakness; and the wandering mind was not always able to keep
fast hold of the new comfort.  Sometimes she would piteously clasp her sister's hand, and entreat,
'Tell me again;' and sometimes the haunting delirious fancies of chains and bars would drop
forth from the tongue that had lost its self-control; yet even at the worst came the dear old
recurring note, 'God will not let them hurt him, for he has not done it!'  Sometimes, more
trying to Averil than all, she would live over again the happy games with him, or sing their
favourite hymns and chants, or she would be heard pleading, 'O, Henry, don't be cross to Leonard.'

Cora could not fail to remark the new name that mingled in the unconscious talk; but she had
learnt to respect Averil's reserve, and she forbore from all questioning, trying even to warn
Cousin Deborah, who, with the experience of an elderly woman, remarked, 'That she had too much
to do to mind what a sick child rambled about.  When Cora had lived to her age, she would know
how unaccountably they talked.'

But Averil felt the more impelled to an outpouring by this delicate forbearance, and the next
time she and Cora were sent out together to breathe the air, while Cousin Deborah watched the
patient, she told the history, and to a sympathizing listener, without a moment's doubt of
Leonard's innocence, nor that American law would have managed matters better.

'And now, Cora, you know why I told you there were bitterer sorrows than yours.'

'Ah!  Averil, I could have believed you once; but to know that he never can come again!  Now
you always have hope.'

'My hope has all but gone,' said Averil.  'There is only one thing left to look to.  If I only
can live till he is sent out to a colony, then nothing shall keep me back from him!'

'And what would I give for even such a hope?'

'We have a better hope, both of us,' murmured Averil.

'It won't seem so long when it is over.'

Well was it for Averil that this fresh link of sympathy was riveted, for day by day she saw
the little patient wasting more hopelessly away, and the fever only burning lower for want
of strength to feed on. Utterly exhausted and half torpid, there was not life or power enough
left in the child for them to know whether she was aware of her condition.  When they read
Prayers, her lips always moved for the Lord's Prayer and Doxology; and when the clergyman came
out from Winiamac, prayed by her and blessed her, she opened her eyes with a look of comprehension;
and if, according to the custom from the beginning of her illness, the Psalms and Lessons were
not read in her room, she was uneasy, though she could hardly listen.  So came Easter Eve;
and towards evening she was a little revived, and asked Averil what day it was, then answered,
'I thought it would have been nice to have died yesterday,'--it was the first time she mentioned
death. Averil told her she was better, but half repented, as the child sank into torpor again;
and Averil, no longer the bewildered girl who had been so easily led from the death scene,
knew the fitful breath and fluttering pulse, and felt the blank dread stealing over her heart.

Again, however, the child looked up, and murmured, 'You have not read to-day.'  Cora, who had
the Bible on her knee, gently obeyed, and read on, where she was, the morning First Lesson,
the same in the American Church as in our own.  Averil, dull with watching and suffering, sat
on dreamily, with the scent of primroses wafted to her, as it were, by the association of the
words, though her power to attend to them was gone. Before the chapter was over, the doze had
overshadowed the little girl again; and yet, more than once, as the night drew on, they heard
her muttering what seemed like the echo of one of its verses, 'Turn you, turn you--'

At last, after hours of watching, and more than one vain endeavour of good Cousin Deborah to
lead away the worn but absorbed nurses, the dread messenger came.  Minna turned suddenly in
her sister's arms, with more strength than Averil had thought was left in her, and eagerly
stretched out her arms, while the words so long trembling on her lips found utterance.  'Turn
you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope! O, Leonard dear! it does not hurt!'  But that
last word was almost lost in the gasp--the last gasp.  What 'did not hurt' was death without
his sting.

'O, Cora!  Was he with her?  Is he gone too?' was Averil's cry at the first moment, as she
strained the form of her little comforter for the last time in her arms.

'And if he is, they are in joy together,' said Cousin Deborah, tenderly but firmly unloosing
Averil's arms, though with the tears running down her cheeks.  'Take her away, Cora, and both
of you sleep.  This dear lamb is in better keeping than yours.'

Heavy, grievous, was the loss, crushing the grief; but it was such as to be at its softest
and sweetest at Easter, amid the Resurrection joys, and the budding flowers, though Ella's
bitterest fit of weeping was excited by there being no primroses--the primroses that Minna
loved so much; and her first pleasurable thought was to sit down and write to her dear 'Mr.
Tom' to send her some primrose seed, for Minna's grave.

Minna's grave!  Alas! Massissauga had but an untidy desolate-looking region, with a rude snake
fence, all unconsecrated!  Cora wanted to choose a shaded corner in her father's ground, where
they might daily tend the child's earthly resting-place; but Averil shrank from this with horror;
and finally, on one of the Easter holidays, the little wasted form in its coffin was reverently
driven by Philetus to Winiamac, while the sisters and Cora slowly followed, thinking--the one
of the nameless blood-stained graves of a battle-field; the other whether an equally nameless
grave-yard, but one looked on with a shudder unmixed with exultation, had opened for the other
being she loved best.  'The Resurrection and the Life.--Yes, had not He made His grave with
the wicked, and been numbered with the transgressors!'

Somehow, the present sorrow was more abundant in such comforts as these than all the pangs
which her heart, grown old in sorrow, had yet endured.

Yet if her soul had bowed itself to meet sorrow more patiently and peacefully, it was at the
expense of the bodily frame.  Already weakened by the intermittent fever, the long strain of
nursing had told on her; and that hysteric affection that had been so distressing at the time
of her brother's trial recurred, and grew on her with every occasion for self-restraint.  The
suspense in which she lived--with one brother in the camp, in daily peril from battle and disease,
the other in his convict prison--wore her down, and made every passing effect of climate or
fatigue seize on her frame like a serious disorder; and the more she resigned her spirit, the
more her body gave way.  Yet she was infinitely happier.  The repentance and submission were
bearing fruit, and the ceasing to struggle had brought a strange calm and acceptance of all
that might be sent; nay, her own decay was perhaps the sweetest solace and healing of the wearied
spirit; and as to Ella, she would trust, and she did trust, that in some way or other all would
be well.

She felt as if even Leonard's death could be accepted thankfully as the captive's release.
But that sorrow was spared her.

The account of Leonard came from Mr. Wilmot, who had carried him the tidings.  The prisoner
had calmly met him with the words, 'I know what you are come to tell me;' and he heard all
in perfect calmness and resignation, saying little, but accepting all that the clergyman said,
exactly as could most be desired.

From the chaplain, likewise, Mr. Wilmot learnt that Leonard, though still only in the second
stage of his penalty, stood morally in a very different position, and was relied on as a valuable
assistant in all that was good, more effective among his fellow-prisoners than was possible
to any one not in the same situation with themselves, and fully accepting that position when
in contact either with convicts or officials.  'He has never referred to what brought him here,'
said the chaplain, 'nor would I press him to do so; but his whole tone is of repentance, and
acceptance of the penalty, without, like most of them, regarding it as expiation.  It is this
that renders his example so valuable among the men.'

After such a report as this, it was disappointing, on Dr. May's next visit to Portland, at
two months' end, to find Leonard drooping and downcast.  The Doctor was dismayed at his pale,
dejected, stooping appearance, and the silence and indifference with which he met their ordinary
topics of conversation, till the Doctor began anxiously--

'You are not well?'

'Quite well, thank you.'

'You are looking out of condition.  Do you sleep?'

'Some part of the night.'

'You want more exercise.  You should apply to go back to the carpenter's shop--or shall I speak
to the governor?'

'No, thank you. I believe they want me in school.'

'And you prefer school work?'

'I don't know, but it helps the master.'

'Do you think you make any progress with the men?  We heard you were very effective with them.'

'I don't see that much can be done any way, certainly not by me.'

Then the Doctor tried to talk of Henry and the sisters; but soon saw that Leonard had no power
to dwell upon them.  The brief answers were given with a stern compression and contraction
of face; as if the manhood that had grown on him in these three years was no longer capable
of the softening effusion of grief; and Dr. May, with all his tenderness, felt that it must
be respected, and turned the conversation.

'I have been calling at the Castle,' he said, 'with Ernescliffe, and the governor showed me
a curious thing, a volume of Archbishop Usher, which had been the Duke of Lauderdale's study
after he was taken at Worcester.  He has made a note in the fly-leaf, "I began this book at
Windsor, and finished it during my imprisonment here;" and below are mottoes in Hebrew, Greek,
and Latin.  I can't construe the Hebrew. The Greek is oisteon kai elpisteon (one must bear
and hope), the Latin is durate.  Will you accept your predecessor's legacy?'

'I think I read about him in an account of the island,' said Leonard, with a moment's awakened
intelligence; 'was he not the L. of the Cabal, the persecutor in "Old Mortality?"'

'I am afraid you are right.  Prosperity must have been worse for him than adversity.'

'Endure' repeated Leonard, gravely.  'I will think of that, and what he would mean by hope now.'

The Doctor came home much distressed; he had been unable to penetrate the dreary, resolute
self-command that covered so much anguish; he had failed in probing or in healing, and feared
that the apathy he had witnessed was a sign that the sustaining spring of vigour was failing
in the monotonous life.  The strong endurance had been a strain that the additional grief was
rendering beyond his power; and the crushed resignation, and air of extinguished hope, together
with the indications of failing health, filled the Doctor with misgivings.

'It will not last much longer,' he said.  'I do not mean that he is ill; but to hold up in
this way takes it out of a man, especially at his age.  The first thing that lays hold of him,
he will have no strength nor will to resist, and then--Well, I did hope to live to see God
show the right.'

CHAPTER XXIV

  We twa hae wandered o'er the braes,
    And pu'ed the gowans fine;
  I've wandered many a weary foot
    Sin auld lang syne.

These years had passed quietly at Stoneborough, with little change since Mary's marriage. 
She was the happy excellent wife that she was made to be; and perhaps it was better for Ethel
that the first severance had been so decisive that Mary's attentions to her old home were received
as favours, instead of as the mere scanty relics of her former attachment.

Mr. Cheviot, as the family shook down together, became less afraid of Ethel, and did not think
it so needful to snub her either by his dignity or jocularity; though she still knew that she
was only on terms of sufferance, and had been, more than once, made to repent of unguarded
observations.  He was admirable; and the school was so rapidly improving that Norman had put
his father into ecstasies by proposing to send home little Dickie to begin his education there.
Moreover, the one element wanting, to accomplish the town improvements, had been supplied by
a head-master on the side of progress, and Dr. Spencer's victory had been won at last.  There
was a chance that Stoneborough might yet be clean, thanks to his reiteration of plans for purification,
apropos to everything.  Baths and wash-houses were adroitly carried as a monument to Prince
Albert; and on the Prince of Wales's marriage, his perseverance actually induced the committee
to finish up the drains with all the contributions that were neither eaten up nor fired away!
Never had he been more happy and triumphant; and Dr. May used to accuse him of perambulating
the lower streets snuffing the deodorized air.

One autumn evening, contrary to his wont, he allowed himself to be drawn into the May drawing-room,
and there fell into one of the bright bantering talks in which the two old friends delighted,
quizzing each other, and bringing up stories of their life; while Ethel and Gertrude listened
to and laughed at the traditions of a sunnier, gayer, and more reckless age than their own;
and Ethel thought how insufficient are those pictures of life that close with the fever-dream
of youthful passion, and leave untold those years of the real burthen of manhood, and still
more the tranquil brightness when toil has been overlived, and the setting sun gilds the clouds
that are drifting away.

Ethel's first knowledge of outer life the next morning was the sound of voices in her father's
adjoining room, which made her call out, 'Are you sent for, papa?'

'Yes,' he answered, and in an agitated tone, 'Spencer; I'll send word.'

Should she mention what she had two years ago heard from Tom?  There was no time, for the next
moment she heard him hurrying down-stairs, she saw him speeding up the garden.  There was nothing
for her to do but to dress as fast as possible, and as she was finishing she heard his tread
slowly mounting, the very footfall warning her what to expect.  She opened the door and met
him.  'Thank God,' he said, as he took her hand into his own, 'it has been very merciful.'

'Is it--?'

'Yes.  It must have been soon after he lay down at night.  As calm as sleep.  The heart.  I
am very thankful.  I had thought he would have had much to suffer.'

And then it appeared that his own observations had made him sure of what Ethel had learnt from
Tom; but as long as it was unavowed by his friend, he had thought himself bound to ignore it,
and had so dreaded the protracted suffering, that the actual stroke was accepted as a loving
dispensation.

Still, as the close of a life-long friendship, the end of a daily refreshing and sustaining
intimacy, the loss was very great, and would be increasingly felt after the first stimulus
was over.  It would make Tom's defection a daily grievance, since much detail of hospital care,
and, above all, town work, his chief fatigue, would now again fall upon him.  But this was
not his present thought.  His first care was, that his friend's remains should rest with those
with whom his lot in life had been cast, in the cloister of the old Grammar-school; but here
Mr. Cheviot looked concerned, and with reluctance, but decision, declared it to be his duty
not to consent, cited the funeral of one of his scholars at the cemetery, and referred to recent
sanatory measures.

Dr. May quickly exclaimed that he had looked into the matter, and that the cloister did not
come under the Act.

'Not technically, sir,' said Mr. Cheviot; 'but I am equally convinced of my duty, however much
I may regret it.'  And then, with a few words about Mary's presently coming up, he departed;
while 'That is too bad,' was the general indignant outburst, even from Richard; from all but
Dr. May himself.

'He is quite right,' he said.  'Dear Spencer would be the first to say so.  Richard, your church
is his best monument, and you'll not shut him out of your churchyard nor me either.'

'Cheviot could not have meant--' began Richard.

'Yes, he did, I understood him, and I am glad you should have had it out now,' said Dr. May,
though not without a quivering lip.  'Your mother has one by her side, and we'll find each
other out just as well as if we were in the cloister.  I'll walk over to Cocksmoor with you,
Ritchie, and mark the place.'

Thus sweetly did he put aside what might have been so severe a shock; and he took extra pains
to show his son-in-law his complete acquiescence both for the present and the future.  Charles
Cheviot expressed to Richard his great satisfaction in finding sentiment thus surmounted by
sense, not perceiving that it was faith and love surmounting both.

Dr. Spencer's only surviving relation was a brother's son, who, on his arrival, proved to be
an underbred, shrewd-looking man, evidently with strong prepossessions against the May family,
whose hospitality he did not accept, consorting chiefly with 'Bramshaw and Anderson.' His disposition
to reverse the arrangement for burying his uncle in 'an obscure village churchyard,' occasioned
a reference to the will, drawn up two years previously.  The executors were Thomas and Etheldred
May, and it was marked on the outside that they were to have the sole direction of the funeral.
Ethel, greatly astonished, but as much bewildered as touched, was infinitely relieved that
this same day had brought a hurried note from Paris, announcing Tom's intention of coming to
attend the funeral.  He would be able to talk to the angry and suspicious nephew, without,
like his father, betraying either indignation or disgust.

Another person was extremely anxious for Tom's arrival, namely, Sir Matthew Fleet, who, not
a little to Dr. May's gratification, came to show his respect to his old fellow-student; and
arriving the evening before Tom, was urgent to know the probabilities of his appearance. An
appointment in London was about to be vacant, so desirable in itself, and so valuable an introduction,
that there was sure to be a great competition; but Sir Matthew was persuaded that with his
own support, and an early canvass, Tom might be certain of success.  Dr. May could not help
being grateful and gratified, declaring that the boy deserved it, and that dear Spencer would
have been very much pleased; and then he told Ethel that it was wonderful to see the blessing
upon Maggie's children; and went back, as usual, to his dear old Tate and Brady, with--

  'His house the seat of wealth shall be,
  An inexhausted treasury;
  His justice, free from all decay,
  Shall blessings to his heirs convey.'

And Ethel, within herself, hoped it was no disrespect to smile at his having so unconsciously
turned away the blessing from the father's to the mother's side.

It was his great pride and pleasure that so many of Maggie's children were round him to do
honour to her old friend's burial--three sons, and four daughters, and three sons-in-law. 
They all stood round the grave, as near as might be to the stone that Gertrude, as a child,
had laid under his care, when his silver hair had mingled with her golden locks; and with them
was a concourse that evidently impressed the nephew with a new idea of the estimation in which
his uncle had been held.

Tom had travelled all night, and had arrived only just in time. Nobody was able to say a word
to him before setting off; and almost immediately after the return, Sir Matthew Fleet seized
upon him to walk up to the station with him, and, to the infinite disgust of the nephew, the
reading of the will was thus delayed until the executor came back, extremely grave and thoughtful.

After all, Mr. Spencer had no available grievance.  His uncle's property was very little altogether,
amounting scarcely to a thousand pounds, but the bulk was bequeathed to the nephew; to Aubrey
May was left his watch, and a piece of plate presented to him on his leaving India; to Dr.
May a few books; to Tom the chief of his library, his papers, notes, and instruments, and the
manuscript of a work upon diseases connected with climate, on which he had been engaged for
many years, but had never succeeded in polishing to his own fastidious satisfaction, or in
coming to the end of new discoveries. To Etheldred, his only legacy was his writing-desk, with
all its contents.  And Mr. Spencer looked so suspicious of those contents, that Tom made her
open it before him, and show that they were nothing but letters.

It had been a morning of the mixture of feelings and restless bustle, so apt to take place
where the affection is not explained by relationship; and when the strangers were gone, and
the family were once again alone, there was a drawing of freer breath, and the Doctor threw
himself back in his chair, and indulged in a long, heavy sigh, with a weary sound in it.

'Can I go anywhere for you, father?' said Tom, turning to him with a kind and respectful manner.

'Oh no--no, thank you,' he said, rousing himself, and laying his hand on the bell, 'I must
go over to Overfield; but I shall be glad of the drive.  Well, Dr. Tom, what did you say to
Fleet's proposal?'

'I said I would come up to town and settle about it when I had got through this executor business.'

'You always were a lucky fellow, Tom,' said Dr. May, trying to be interested and sympathetic.
'You would not wish for anything better.'

'I don't know, I have not had time to think about it yet,' said Tom, pulling off his spectacles
and pushing back his hair, with an action of sadness and fatigue.

'Ah! it was not the best of times to choose for the communication; but it was kindly meant.
I never expected to see Fleet take so much trouble for any one.  But you are done up, Tom,
with your night journey.'

'Not at all,' he answered, briskly, 'if I can do anything for you. Could not I go down to the
hospital?'

'Why, if I were not to be back till five,' began Dr. May, considering, and calling him into
the hall to receive directions, from which he came back, saying, 'There! now then, Ethel, we
had better look over things, and get them in train.'

'You are so tired, Tom.'

'Not too much for that,' he said.  But it was a vain boast; he was too much fatigued to turn
his mind to business requiring thought, though capable of slow, languid reading and sorting
of papers.

Aubrey's legacy was discovered with much difficulty.  In fact, it had never been heard of,
nor seen the light, since its presentation, and was at last found in a lumber closet, in a
strong box, in Indian packing.  It was a compromise between an epergne and a candelabrum, growing
out of the howdah of an unfortunate elephant, pinning one tiger to the ground, and with another
hanging on behind, in the midst of a jungle of palm-trees and cobras; and beneath was an elaborate
inscription, so laudatory of Aubrey Spencer, M. D., that nobody wondered he had never unpacked
it, and that it was yellow with tarnish--the only marvel was, that he had never disposed of
it; but that it was likely to wait for the days when Aubrey might be a general and own a side-board.

The other bequests were far more appreciated.  Tom had known of the book in hand, was certain
of its value to the faculty, and was much gratified by the charge of it, both as a matter of
feeling and of interest.  But while he looked over and sorted the mass of curious notes, his
attention was far more set on the desk, that reverently, almost timidly, Ethel examined, well
knowing why she had been selected as the depositary of these relics.  There they were, some
embrowned by a burn in the corner, as though there had been an attempt to destroy them, in
which there had been no heart to persevere.  It was but little, after all, two formal notes
in which Professor Norman Mackenzie asked the honour of Mr. Spencer's company to dinner, but
in handwriting that was none of the professor's--writing better known to Ethel than to Tom--and
a series of their father's letters, from their first separation till the traveller's own silence
had caused their correspondence to drop.  Charming letters they were, such as people wrote
before the penny-post had spoilt the epistolary art--long, minute, and overflowing with brilliant
happiness.  Several of them were urgent invitations to Stoneborough, and one of these was finished
in that other hand--the delicate, well-rounded writing that would not be inherited--entreating
Dr. Spencer to give a few days to Stoneborough, 'it would be such a pleasure to Richard to
show him the children.'

Ethel did not feel sure whether to see these would give pain or pleasure to her father.  He
would certainly be grieved to see how much suffering he must have inflicted in the innocence
of his heart, and in the glory of his happiness; and Tom, with a sort of shudder, advised her
to keep them to herself, he was sure they would give nothing but pain.

She had no choice just then, for it was a time of unusual occupation, and the difference made
by their loss told immediately--the more, perhaps, because it was the beginning of November,
and there was much municipal business to be attended to.

However it might be for the future, during the ensuing week Dr. May never came in for a meal
with the rest of the family; was too much fagged for anything but sleep when he came home at
night; and on the Sunday morning, when they all had reckoned on going to Cocksmoor together,
he was obliged to give it up, and only come into the Minster at the end of the prayers.  Every
one knew that he was not a good manager of his time, and this made things worse; and he declared
that he should make arrangements for being less taken up; but it was sad to see him overburthened,
and Tom, as only a casual visitor, could do little to lessen his toil, though that little was
done readily and attentively.  There were no rubs between the two, and scarcely any conversation.
Tom would not discuss his prospects; and it was not clear whether he meant to avail himself
of Sir Matthew's patronage; he committed himself to nothing but his wish that it were possible
to stay in Paris; and he avoided even talking to his sister.

Not till a week after he had left home for London came a letter

'Dear Ethel,

'I have told Fleet that I am convinced of my only right course.  I could never get the book
finished properly if I got into his line, and I must have peaceable evenings for it at home.
I suppose my father would not like to let Dr. Spencer's house.  If I might have it, and keep
my own hours and habits, I think it would conduce to our working better together.  I am afraid
I kept you in needless distress about him, but I wanted to judge for myself of the necessity,
and to think over the resignation of that quest.  I must commit it to Brown. I hope it is not
too great a risk; but it can't be helped.  It is a matter of course that I should come home
now the helper is gone; I always knew it would come to that.  Manage it as quietly as you can.
I must go to Paris for a fortnight, to bring home my things, and by that time my father had
better get me appointed to the hospital.

'Yours ever,
  'TH. MAY.'

Ethel was not so much surprised as her father, who thought she must have been working upon
Tom's feelings; but this she disavowed, except that it had been impossible not to growl at
patients sending at unreasonable hours.  Then he hoped that Fleet had not been disappointing
the lad; but this notion was nullified by a remonstrance from the knight, on the impolicy of
burying such talents for the sake of present help; and even proposing to send a promising young
man in Tom's stead.  'Not too good for poor Stoneborough,' said Dr. May, smiling.  'No, no,
I'm not so decrepit as that, whatever he and Tom may have thought me; I fancy I could tire
out both of them. I can't have the poor boy giving up all his prospects for my sake, Ethel.
I never looked for it, and I shall write and tell him so! Mind, Ethel, I shall write, not you!
I know you would only stroke him down, and bring him home to regret it.  No, no, I won't always
be treated like Karl, in "Debit and Credit", who the old giant thought could neither write
nor be written to, because his finger was off.'

And Dr. May's letter was the first which this son had ever had from him.

'My Dear Tom,

'I feel your kind intentions to the heart; it is like all the rest of your dear mother's children;
but the young ought not to be sacrificed to the old, and I won't have it done.  The whole tone
of practice has altered since my time, and I do not want to bind you down to the routine. 
I had left off thinking of it since I knew of your distaste. I have some years of work in me
yet, that will see out most of my old patients; and for the rest, Wright is a great advance
on poor Ward, and I will leave more to him as I grow older.  I mean to see you a great man
yet, and I think you will be the greater and happier for the sacrifice you have been willing
to make.  His blessing on you.

'Your loving father,
  'R. M.'

What was Tom's answer, but one of his cool 'good letters,' a demonstration that he was actuated
by the calmest motives of convenience and self-interest, in preferring the certainties of Stoneborough
to the contingencies of London, and that he only wanted time for study and the completion of
Dr. Spencer's book, enforcing his request for the house.

His resolution was, as usual, too evident to be combated, and it was also plain that he chose
to keep on the mask of prudent selfishness, which he wore so naturally that it was hard to
give him credit for any other features; but this time Dr. May was not deceived.  He fully estimated
the sacrifice, and would have prevented it if he could; but he never questioned the sincerity
of the motive, as it was not upon the surface; and the token of dutiful affection, as coming
from the least likely quarter of his family, touched and comforted him.  He dwelt on it with
increasing satisfaction, and answered all hurries and worries with, 'I shall have time when
Tome is come;' re-opened old schemes that had died away when he feared to have no successor,
and now and then showed a certain comical dread of being drilled into conformity with Tom's
orderly habits.

There was less danger of their clashing, as the son had outgrown the presumptions of early
youth, and a change had passed over his nature which Ethel had felt, rather than seen, during
his fleeting visits at home, more marked by negatives than positives, and untraced by confidences.
The bitterness and self-assertion had ceased to tinge his words, the uncomfortable doubt that
they were underlaid by satire had passed away, and methodical and self-possessed as he always
was, the atmosphere of 'number one' was no longer apparent round all his doings. He could be
out of spirits and reserved without being either ill-tempered or ironical; and Ethel, with
this as the upshot of her week's observations, was reassured as to the hopes of the father
and son working together without collisions.  As soon as the die was cast, and there was no
danger of undue persuasion in 'stroking him down,' she indulged herself by a warmly-grateful
letter, and after she had sent it, was tormented by the fear that it would be a great offence.
The answer was much longer than she had dared to expect, and alarmed her lest it should be
one of his careful ways of making the worst of himself; but there was a large 'Private,' scored
in almost menacing letters on the top of the first sheet, and so much blotted in the folding,
that it was plain that he had taken alarm at the unreserve of his own letter.

'My Dear Ethel,

'I have been to Portland.  Really my father ought to make a stir and
get Ward's health attended to; he looks very much altered, but will not
own to anything being amiss.  They say he has been depressed ever since
he heard of Minna's death.  I should say he ought to be doing
out-of-doors work--perhaps at Gibraltar, but then he would be out of
our reach.  I could not get much from him, but that patient, contented
look is almost more than one can bear.  It laid hold of me when I saw
him the first time, and has haunted me ever since.  Verily I believe it
is what is bringing me home!  You need not thank me, for it is sober
calculation that convinces me that no success on earth would compensate
for the perpetual sense that my father was wearing himself out, and you
pining over the sight.  Except just at first, I always meant to come
and see how the land lay before pledging myself to anything; and
nothing can be clearer than that, in the state of things my father has
allowed to spring up, he must have help.  I am glad you have got me the
old house, for I can be at peace there till I have learnt to stand his
unmethodical ways.  Don't let him expect too much of me, as I see he is
going to do.  It is not in me to be like Norman or Harry, and he must
not look for it, least of all now. If you did not understand, and know
when to hold your tongue, I do not think I could come home at all; as
it is, you are all the comfort I look for.  I cross to Paris to-morrow.
That is a page I am very sorry to close.  I had a confidence that I
should have hunted down that fellow, and the sight of Portland and the
accounts from Massissauga alike make one long to have one's hands on
his throat; but that hope is ended now, and to loiter about Paris in
search of him, when it it a plain duty to come away, would be one of
the presumptuous acts that come to no good.  Let them discuss what they
will, there's nothing so hard to believe in as Divine Justice!  And yet
that uncomplaining face accepts it!  You need say nothing about this
letter.  I will talk about Leonard with my father when I get home.
                   AEschylus. (Translated by Professor Anstice.)

If Tom May's arrival at home was eagerly anticipated there, it was with a heavy heart that
he prepared for what he had never ceased to look on as a treadmill life.  He had enjoyed Paris,
both from the society and the abstract study, since he still retained that taste for theory
rather than practice, which made him prefer diseases to sick people, and all sick people to
those of Stoneborough.  The student life, in the freedom of a foreign capital, was, even while
devoid of license and irregularity, much pleasanter than what he foresaw at home, even though
he had obtained a separate establishment.  His residence at Paris, with the vague hope it afforded,
cost him more in the resignation than his prospects in London.  It was the week when he would
have been canvassing for the appointment, and he was glad to linger abroad out of reach of
Sir Matthew's remonstrances, and his father's compunction, while he was engaged in arranging
for a French translation of Dr. Spencer's book, and likewise in watching an interesting case,
esteemed a great medical curiosity, at the Hotel Dieu.

He was waiting in the lecture-room, when one of the house surgeons came in, saying, 'Ah! I
am glad to see you here.  A compatriot of yours has been brought in, mortally injured in a
gambling fray.  You may perhaps assist in getting him identified.'

Tom followed him to the accident ward, and beheld a senseless figure, with bloated and discoloured
features, distorted by the effects of the injury, a blow upon the temple, which had caused
a fall backwards on the sharp edge of a stove, occasioning fatal injury to the spine. Albeit
well accustomed to gaze critically upon the tokens of mortal agony, Tom felt an unusual shudder
of horror and repugnance as he glanced on the countenance, so disfigured and contorted that
there was no chance of recognition, and turned his attention to the clothes, which lay in a
heap on the floor.  The contents of the pockets had been taken out, and consisted only of some
pawnbroker's duplicates, a cigar-case, and a memorandum-book, which last he took in his hand,
and began to unfasten, without looking at it, while he took part in the conversation of the
surgeons on the technical nature of the injuries. Thus he stood for some seconds, before, on
the house surgeon asking if he had found any address, he cast his eyes on the pages which lay
open in his hand.

'Ha!  What have you found?--He does not hear!  Is it the portrait of the beloved object?  Is
it a brother--an enemy--or a debt?  But he is truly transfixed!  It is an effect of the Gorgon's
head!'

'July 15th, 1860.  Received £120.
                              'L. A. WARD.'

There stood Tom May, like one petrified, deaf to the words around, his dazzled eyes fixed on
the letters, his faculties concentrated in the endeavour to ascertain whether they were sight
or imagination. Yes, there they were, the very words in the well-known writing, the school-boy's
forming into the clerk's, there was the blot in the top of the L!  Tom's heart gave one wild
bound, then all sensation, except the sight of the writing, ceased, the exclamations of those
around him came surging gradually on his ear, as if from a distance, and he did not yet hear
them distinctly when he replied alertly, almost lightly, 'Here is a name that surprises me.
Let me look at the patient again.'

'No dear friend?' asked his chief intimate, in a tone ready to become gaiety or sympathy.

'No, indeed,' said Tom, shuddering as he stood over the insensible wretch, and perceived what
it had been which had thrilled him with such unwonted horror, for, fixed by the paralyzing
convulsion of the fatal blow, he saw the scowl and grin of deadly malevolence that had been
the terror of his childhood, and that had fascinated his eyes at the moment of Leonard's sentence.
Changed by debauchery, defaced by violence, contorted by the injured brain, the features would
scarcely have been recalled to him but for the frightful expression stamped on his memory by
the miseries of his timid boyhood.

'Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed.'  The awful thought, answering
his own struggle for faith in Divine Justice, crossed him, as he heard the injury on the head
defined, in almost the same scientific terms that had so often rung on his ears as the causes
of Francis Axworthy's death; but this was no society where he could give vent to his feelings,
and mastering himself with difficulty he answered,  'I know Him.  He is from my own town.'

'Has he friends or relations?'

'Relations, yes,' said Tom, hardly able to restrain a trembling of the lip, half horror, half
irony.  'None here, none near.  They shall know.'

'And means?'

'Once he had.  Probably none now.'

To Tom's great relief, a new case drew off general attention.  There only remained the surgeon
who had called him at first, and with whom he was particularly intimate.

'Gaspard,' he said, 'shall you have charge of this case?'

'Brief charge it will be, apparently!  I will volunteer to watch it, if it is your desire!
Is it friendship, or enmity, or simple humanity?'

'All!' said Tom, hastily.  'It is the clearing up of a horrible mystery--freedom for an innocent
prisoner--I must tell you the rest at leisure.  There is much to be done now in case of his
reviving.'

This was remotely possible, but very doubtful; and Tom impressed on both Gaspard and the nursing
sister the most stringent entreaties to summon him on the first symptom.  He then gave the
name of the unhappy man, and, though unwilling to separate himself from that invaluable pocket-book,
perceived the necessity of leaving it as a deposit with the authorities of the hospital, after
he had fully examined it, recognizing Leonard's description in each particular, the cipher
F. A. on the tarnished silver clasp, the shagreen cover, and the receipt on a page a little
past the middle.  On the other half of the leaf was the entry of some sums due to the house;
and it contained other papers which the guilty wretch had been evidently eager to secure, yet
afraid to employ, and that, no doubt, were the cause that, like so many other murderers on
record, he had preserved that which was the most fatal proof against himself.  Or could it
be with some notion of future relenting, that he had refrained from its destruction?

With brain still seeming to reel at the discovery, and limbs actually trembling with the shock,
Tom managed to preserve sufficient coolness and discretion to bring back to mind the measures
he had so often planned for any such contingency.  Calling a cabriolet, he repaired to the
police-station nearest to the scene of the contest, and there learnt that Axworthy had long
been watched as a dangerous subject, full of turbulence, and with no visible means of maintenance.
The officials had taken charge of the few personal effects in his miserable lodgings, and were
endeavouring to secure the person who had struck the fatal blow.

His next measure was to go to the British Embassy, where, through his sister Flora's introductions,
and his own Eton connections, he was already well known; and telling his story there, without
any attempt to conceal his breathless agitation, he had no difficulty in bringing with him
a companion who would authenticate the discovery of the receipt, and certify to any confession
that might be obtained.

A confession!  That was the one matter of the most intense interest. Tom considered whether
to secure the presence of a clergyman, but suspected that this would put Axworthy on his guard
rather than soften him, and therefore only wrote to the chaplain, begging him to hold himself
in readiness for a summons to the Hotel Dieu, whither he drove rapidly back with his diplomatic
friend, whom he wrought up well-nigh to his own pitch of expectation.  He had already decided
on his own first address--pitying, but manifesting that nothing, not even vengeance, could
be gained by concealment; and then, according to the effect, would he try either softening
or threatening to extort the truth.

Gaspard was eagerly awaiting them.  'I had already sent for you,' he said.  'The agony is commencing;
he has spoken, but he has not his full consciousness.'

Tom hurried on, drawing after him the young diplomate, who would have hung back, questioning
if there were any use in his witnessing the dying struggles of a delirious man.

'Come, come,' peremptorily repeated Tom, 'there must be some last words.  Every moment is of
importance.'

Yet his trust was shaken by the perception of the progress that death had made in the miserable
frame during his absence.  The fixed expression of malignity had been forced to yield to exhaustion
and anguish, the lips moved, but the murmurs between the moans were scarcely articulate.

'He is almost past it,' said Tom, 'but there is the one chance that he may be roused by my voice.'

And having placed his friend conveniently, both for listening and making notes, he came close
to the bed, and spoke in a tone of compassion. 'Axworthy, I say, Axworthy, is there anything
I can do for you?'

There was a motion of the lid of the fast-glazing eye; but the terrible face of hatred came
back, with the audible words, 'I tell you, you old fool, none of the Mays are to come prying
about my place.'

Appalled by the deadly malice of the imprecation and the look that accompanied this partial
recognition of his voice, Tom was nerving himself to speak again, when the dying man, as if
roused by the echo of his own thought, burst out, 'Who?  What is it?  I say Dr. May shall not
be called in!  He never attended the old man!  Let him mind his own business!  I was all night
at the Three Goblets.  Yes, I was! The new darling will catch it--going off with the money
upon him--' and the laugh made their blood run cold.  'I've got the receipt;' and he made an
attempt at thrusting his hand under the pillow, but failing, swore, shouted, howled with his
last strength, that he had been robbed--the pocket-book--it would hang him! and with one of
the most fearful shrieks of despair that had perhaps ever rung through that asylum of pain,
woe, and death, the wretched spirit departed.

Tom May turned aside, made a few steps, and, to the infinite surprise of every one, fell helplessly
down in a swoon.  A nature of deep and real sensibility, though repressed by external reserve
and prudence, could not with entire impunity undergo such a scene.  The sudden discovery, the
vehement excitement forced down, the intense strain of expectation, and finally, the closing
horror of such a death, betraying the crime without repenting of it, passing to the other world
with imprecations on the lips, and hatred in the glare of the eye, all the frightfulness enhanced
by the familiarity of the allusions, and the ghastly association of the tones that had tempted
and tyrannized over his childhood, altogether crushed and annihilated his faculties, mental
and bodily.

Oh, when our very hearts burn for justice, how little do we know how intolerable would be the
sight of it!  Tom's caution and readiness returned as soon as--after a somewhat long interval--he
began to distinguish the voices round him, and perceive the amazement he had created.  Before
he was able to sit up on the couch, where he had been laid out of sight of the scene which
had affected him so strongly, he was urging his friend to set down all that had been spoken,
and on Gaspard's writing a separate deposition.  The pocket-book, and other effects, were readily
ceded to the British authority, and were carried away with them.

How Tom got through the remaining hours of the day and the night he never recollected, though
he knew it must have been in the bustle of preparation, and that he had imparted the tidings
to Leonard's friend Brown, for when he and his friend had attended that which answered to an
inquest on the body, and had obtained a report of the proceedings, he was ready to start by
the night train, bearing with him the attestations of the death-bed scene at the Hotel Dieu,
and the long-lost memorandum-book, and was assured that the next mail would carry an official
letter to the Home Office, detailing the circumstances of Samuel Axworthy's decease.  Brown
came to bid him farewell, full of gladness and warm congratulation, which he longed to send
to his friend, but which Tom only received with hasty, half-comprehending assents.

Late in the afternoon he reached Stoneborough, found no one come in, and sat down in the fire-light,
where, for all his impatience, fatigue had made him drop asleep, when he was roused by Gertrude's
voice, exclaiming, 'Here really is Tom come, as you said he would, without writing.  Here are
all his goods in the hall.'

'Is it you, Tom!' cried Ethel.  'Notice or no notice, we are glad of you.  But what is the matter?'

'Where's my father?'

'Coming.  Charles Cheviot took him down to look at one of the boys. Is there anything the matter?'
she added, after a pause.

'No, nothing.'

'You look very odd,' added Gertrude.

He gave a nervous laugh.  'You would look odd, if you had travelled all night.'

They commented, and began to tell home news; but Ethel noted that he neither spoke nor heard,
only listened for his father.  Gertrude grew tired of inattentive answers, and said she should
go and dress. Ethel was turning to follow, when he caught hold of her cloak, and drew her close
to him.  'Ethel,' he said, in a husky, stifled voice, 'do you know this?'

On her knees, by the red fire-light, she saw the 'L. A. Ward,' and looked up.  'Is it?' she
said.  He bowed his head.

And then Ethel put her arm round his neck, as he knelt down by her; and he found that her tears,
her rare tears, were streaming down, silent but irrepressible.  She had not spoken, had asked
no question, made no remark, when Dr. Mays entrance was heard, and she loosed her hold on her
brother, out without rising from the floor, looked up from under the shade of her hat, and
said, 'O, papa! it is found, and he has done it!  Look there!'

Her choked voice, and tokens of emotion, startled the Doctor; but Tom, in a matter-of-fact
tone, took up the word: 'How are you, father?--Yes. I have only met with this little memorandum.'

Dr. May recognized it with a burst of incoherent inquiry and exclamation, wringing Tom's hand,
and giving no time for an answer; and, indeed, his son attempted none--till, calming himself,
the Doctor subsided into his arm-chair, and with a deep sigh, exclaimed, 'Now then, Tom, let
us hear.  Where does this come from?'

'From the casualty ward at the Hotel Dieu.'

'And from--'

'He is dead,' said Tom, answering the unspoken question.  'You will find it all here.  Ethel,
do I sleep here to-night?  My old room?' As he spoke, he bent to light a spill at the fire,
and then the two candles on the side-table; but his hand shook nervously, and though he turned
away his face, his father and sister saw the paleness of his cheek, and knew that he must have
received a great shock. Neither spoke, while he put one candle conveniently for his father,
took up the other, and went away with it.  With one inquisitive glance at each other, they
turned to the papers, and with eager eyes devoured the written narratives of Tom himself and
of the attache, then, with no less avidity, the French reports accompanying them. Hardly a
word was spoken while Ethel leant against her father's knee, and he almost singed his hair
in the candle, as they helped one another out in the difficulties of the crooked foreign writing.

'Will it be enough?' asked Ethel, at last, holding her breath for the answer.

'If there is justice in England!' said Dr. May.  'Heaven forgive me, Ethel, this business has
tried my trust more than anything that ever befell me; but it will all be right now, and righter
than right, if that boy comes out what I think him.'

'And oh, how soon?'

'Not a moment longer than can be helped.  I'd go up by the mail train this very night if it
would do any good.'

Tom, who reappeared as soon as he had spared himself the necessity of the narration, was willing
and eager to set out; but Dr. May, who by this time had gathered some idea of what he had gone
through, and saw that he was restless, nervous, and unhinged, began to reconsider the expedience
of another night journey, and was, for once in his life, the person cool enough to see that
it would be wisest to call Bramshaw into their counsels, and only that night to send up a note
mentioning that they would do themselves the honour of calling at the Home Office the next
day, on matters connected with the intelligence received that morning from the British Embassy
at Paris.

Tom was disappointed; he was in no mood for sitting still, and far less for talking.  As a
matter of business, he would elucidate any question, but conversation on what he had witnessed
was impossible to him; and when Gertrude, with a girl's lightness, lamented over being balked
of a confession and explanation, he gravely answered, that she did not know what she was talking
of; and his father led away from the subject. Indeed, Dr. May was full of kindness and consideration,
being evidently not only grateful for the discovery, but touched by his entire absence of exulting
triumph, and his strong sense of awe in the retribution.

That changed and awe-struck manner impressed both the sisters, so that all the evening Ethel
felt subdued as by a strange shock, and even through the night and morning could hardly realize
that it was intense relief--joy, not sorrow--that made her feel so unlike herself, and that
the burthen was taken away from her heart.  Even then, there was a trembling of anxiety.  The
prisoner might be set free; but who could give back to him the sister who had pined away in
exile, or the three years of his youthful brightness?  There might be better things in store;
but she knew she must not look again for the boy of ingenuous countenance, whose chivalrous
devotion to herself had had such a charm, even while she tried to prize it at its lightest
worth.  It was foolish to recollect it with a pang, but there was no helping it.  In the great
tragedy, she had forgotten that the pretty comedy was over, but she regretted it, rather as
she did the pleasant baby-days of Aubrey and Gertrude.

Indeed, during the day of suspense, while the two physicians were gone to London, taking with
them the papers, and a minute detail of the evidence at the trial, Gertrude's high spirits,
triumph over Charles Cheviot, and desire to trumpet forth the good news, were oppressive. How
many times that day was Mab stroked, and assured that her master would come back!  And how
often did the two sisters endeavour to persuade themselves that she was not grown broader in
the back!  Mary was, of course, told early in the day, but Gertrude got less sympathy from
her than answered to that damsel's extortionate expectations, for, according to her wicked
account, Mary's little Charlie had sneezed three times, and his mamma must regret what sent
all the medical science of Stoneborough away by the early train.

However, Tom came home at night.  The interview had been satisfactory. The letters received
in the morning had prepared the way, and revived the recollection of the unsatisfactory case
of Leonard Axworthy Ward, and of the representations of the then Mayor of Market Stoneborough.
After all the new lights upon the matter had been looked into, the father and son had been
assured that, as soon as possible, a free pardon should be issued, so drawn up as to imply
a declaration of innocence--the nearest possible approach to a reversal of the sentence; and
they further were told of a mention of his exemplary conduct in a late report from Portland,
containing a request that he might be promoted to a post of greater influence and trust before
the ordinary time of probation had passed.  Dr. May was eager to be at Portland at the same
time as the pardon, so to give Leonard the first intelligence, and to bring him home; and he
had warmly closed with Tom's offer to look after the work, while he himself waited till the
necessary forms had been complied with.  He had absolutely begged Tom's pardon for going in
his stead.  'It is your right,' he said; 'but, somehow, I think, as I have been more with him,
I might do better.'  To which Tom had assented with all his heart, and had added that he would
not go if he were paid for it.  He had further taken care that the Doctor should take with
him a suit of clothes for Leonard to come home in, and had himself made the selection; then
came back with the tidings that filled the house with the certainty of joy, and the uncertainty
of expectation.

Nobody was, however, in such a fever as Tom himself.  He was marvellously restless all the
morning.  Gertrude asserted it was because he was miserable at not venturing to set his father's
study to rights; and to be sure he was seen looking round at the litter with a face of great
disgust, and declaring that he was ashamed to see a patient in a room in such a mess.  But
this did not fully account for his being in and out, backwards and forwards, all the morning,
looking wistfully at Ethel, and then asking some trivial question about messages left for his
father, or matters respecting his own new abode, where he kept on Dr. Spencer's old housekeeper,
and was about to turn in paperers and painters.  He had actually brought a drawing-room paper
from Paris, a most delicate and graceful affair, much too lady-like for the old house, as Daisy
told him, when she pursued him and her sister down to a consultation.

Late in the afternoon, as the sisters were coming up the High Street, they met him setting
out in Hector's dog-cart.  'Oh, I say, Ethel,' he said, drawing up, 'do you like a drive out
to Chilford?  Here's a note come to ask my father to see the old lady there, and I want some
one to give me courage to be looked at, like the curate in the pulpit instead of the crack
preacher.'

It was an offer not to be despised, though Ethel knew what a waiting there would be, and what
a dark drive home.  Up she jumped, and Tom showed his usual thoughtfulness by ordering Gertrude
to run home and fetch her muff and an additional cloak, tucking her up himself with the carriage
rug.  That affection of Tom's had been slow in coming, but always gave her a sense of gratitude
and enjoyment.

They drove all the seven miles to Chilford without twenty words passing between them; and when
there, she sat in the road, and watched one constellation after another fill up its complement
of stars as well as the moon permitted, wondering whether Tom's near-sighted driving would
be safe in the dark; but her heart was so light, so glad, that she could not be afraid, she
did not care how long she waited, it was only sitting still to recollect that deliverance had
come to the captive--Leonard was free--'free as heart can think or eye can see,' as would keep
ringing in her ears like a joy-bell; and some better things, too.  'Until the time came that
his cause was known, the Word of the Lord tried him.'

Whether she were really too happy to note time, or that gossipry was deducted from the visit,
Tom certainly returned sooner than her experience had led her to expect, made an exclamation
of dismay at finding the machine was innocent of lamps, and remounted to his seat, prepared
to be extremely careful.

'I could not get them to take me for my father in a new wig,' he said; 'but it was a very easy-going
rheumatic case, and I think I satisfied her.'

Then on he drove for a mile, till he was out of the bad cross-country road, and at last he
said, 'Ethel, I have made up my mind.  There's no press of work just now, and I find it is
advisable I should go to America before I get into harness here.'

'To America!'

'Yes, about this book of dear old Spencer's.  It is a thing that must be complete, and I find
he was in correspondence with some men of science there.  I could satisfy my mind on a few
points, which would make it infinitely more valuable, you see--and get it published there too.
I know my father would wish every justice to be done to it.'

'I know he would; and,' continued Ethel, as innocently as she could, 'shall you see the Wards?'

'Why,' said Tom, in his deliberate voice, 'that is just one thing; I want particularly to see
Henry.  I had a talk with Wright this morning, and he tells me that young Baines, at Whitford,
is going to the dogs, and the practice coming in to him.  He thinks of having a partner, and
I put out a feeler in case Henry Ward should choose to come back, and found it might do very
well.  But the proposal must come from him, and there's no time to be lost, so I thought of
setting out as soon as I hear my father is on his way back.'

'Not waiting to see Leonard?'

'I did see him not a month ago.  Besides--' and his voice came to a sudden end.

'Yes, the first news,' said Ethel.  'Indeed it is due to you, Tom.'

Ten minutes more of silence.

'Ethel, did she ever tell you?'

'Never,' said Ethel, her heart beating.

'Then how did you know all about it?'

'I didn't know.  I only saw--'

'Saw what?'

'That you were very much distressed.'

'And very kind and rational you were about it,' said Tom, warmly; 'I never thought any woman
could have guessed so much, without making mischief.  But you must not put any misconstruction
on my present intention.  All I mean to do as yet is to induce Henry to remove them out of
that dismal swamp, and bring them home to comfort and civilization.  Then it may be time to--'

He became silent; and Ethel longed ardently to ask further, but still she durst not, and he
presently began again.

'Ethel, was I very intolerable that winter of the volunteers, when Harry was at home?'

'You are very much improved since,' she answered.

'That's just like Flora.  Answer like yourself.'

'Well, you were!  You were terribly rampant in Eton refinement, and very anxious to hinder
all the others from making fools of themselves.'

'I remember!  I thought you had all got into intimacies that were for nobody's good, and I
still think it was foolish.  I know it has done for me!  Well,' hastily catching up this last
admission, as if it had dropped out at unawares, 'you think I made myself disagreeable?'

'On principle.'

'Ah! then you would not wonder at what she said--that she had never seen anything in me but
contemptuous irony.'

'I think, sometimes feeling that you were satirical, she took all your courtesy for irony--whatever
you meant.  I have heard other people say the same.  But when--was this on the day--the day
you went to remonstrate?'

'Yes.  I declare to you, Ethel, that I had no conception of what I was going to do!  I never
dreamt that I was in for it.  I knew she was--was attractive--and that made me hate to see
Harry with her, and I could not bear her being carried off to this horrible place--but as to
myself, I never thought of it till I saw her--white and broken--' and then came that old action
Ethel knew so well in her father, of clearing the dew from the glasses, and his voice was half
sob, 'and with no creature but that selfish brother to take care of her.  I couldn't help it,
Ethel--no one could--and this--this was her answer. I don't wonder. I had been a supercilious
prig, and I ought to have known better than to think I could comfort her.'

'I think the remembrance must have comforted her since.'

'What--what, has she said anything?'

'Oh no, she could not, you know.  But I am sure, if it did anger her at the moment, there must
have been comfort in recollecting that even such a terrible trouble had not alienated you.
And now--'

'Now that's just what I don't want!  I don't want to stalk in and say here's the hero of romance
that has saved your brother!  I want to get her home, and show her that I can be civil without
being satirical, and then, perhaps, she would forgive me.'

'Forgive you--'

'I mean forgiveness won, not purchased.  And after all, you know it was mere accident--Providence
if you please--that brought me to that poor wretch; all my plans of tracking him had come to
an end; any one else could have done what I did.'

'She will not feel that,' said Ethel; 'but indeed, Tom, I see what you mean, and like it. 
It is yourself, and not the conferrer of the benefit, that you want her to care for.'

'Exactly,' said Tom.  'And, Ethel, I must have seen her and judged of my chance before I can
be good for anything.  I tried to forget it--own it as a lucky escape--a mere passing matter,
like Harry's affairs--but I could not do it.  Perhaps I could if things had gone well; but
that dear face of misery, that I only stung by my attempts to comfort, would stick fast with
me, and to go and see Leonard only brought it more home.  It is a horrid bad speculation, and
Flora and Cheviot and Blanche will scout it; but, Ethel, you'll help me through, and my father
will not mind, I know.'

'Papa will feel as I do, Tom--that it has been your great blessing, turn out as it may.'

'H'm! has it?  A blessing on the wrong side of one's mouth--to go about with a barb one knew
one was a fool for, and yet couldn't forget! Well, I know what you mean, and I believe it was.
I would not have had it annihilated, when the first mood was over.'

'It was that which made it so hard to you to come home, was it not?'

'Yes; but it was odd enough, however hard it was to think of coming, you always sent me away
more at peace, Ethel.  I can't think how you did it, knowing nothing.'

'I think you came at the right time.'

'You see, I did think that while Spencer lived, I might follow up the track, and see a little
of the world--try if that would put out that face and voice.  But it won't do.  If this hadn't
happened, I would have tied myself down, and done my best to get comfort out of you, and the
hospital, and these 'Diseases of Climate'--I suppose one might in time, if things went well
with her; but, as it is, I can't rest till I have seen if they can be got home again.  So,
Ethel, don't mind if I go before my father comes home.  I can't stand explanations with him,
and I had rather you did not proclaim this. You see the book, and getting Henry home, are really
the reasons, and I shan't molest her again--no--not till she has learnt to know what is irony.'

'I think if you did talk it over with papa, you would feel the comfort, and know him better.'

'Well, well, I dare say, but I can't do it, Ethel.  Either he shuts me up at first, with some
joke, or--' and Tom stopped; but Ethel knew what he meant.  There was on her father's side
an involuntary absence of perfect trust in this son, and on Tom's there was a character so
sensitive that her father's playfulness grated, and so reserved that his demonstrative feelings
were a still greater trial to one who could not endure outward emotion.  'Besides,' added Tom,
'there is really nothing--nothing to tell.  I'm not going to commit myself.  I don't know whether
I ever shall.  I was mad that day, and I want to satisfy my mind whether I think the same now
I am sane, and if I do, I shall have enough to do to make her forget the winter when I made
myself such an ass.  When I have done that, it may be time to speak to my father. I really
am going out about the book.  When did you hear last?'

'That is what makes me anxious.  I have not heard for two months, and that is longer than she
ever was before without writing, except when Minna was ill.'

'We shall know if Leonard has heard.'

'No, she always writes under cover to us.'

The course that the conversation then took did not look much like Tom's doubt whether his own
views would be the same.  All the long-repressed discussion of Averil's merits, her beautiful
eyes, her sweet voice, her refinement, her real worth, the wonder that she and Leonard should
be so superior to the rest of the family, were freely indulged at last, and Ethel could give
far heartier sympathy than if this had come to her three years ago.  Averil had been for two
years her correspondent, and the patient sweetness and cheerfulness of those letters had given
a far higher estimate of her nature than the passing intercourse of the town life had left.
The terrible discipline of these years of exile and sorrow had, Ethel could well believe, worked
out something very different from the well-intentioned wilful girl whose spirit of partisanship
had been so fatal an element of discord.  Distance had, in truth, made them acquainted, and
won their love to one another.  Indeed, he presented himself at the prison gates only two hours
after the arrival of the documents, when no one but the governor was aware of their contents.

Leonard was as usual at his business in the schoolmaster's department; and thither a summons
was sent for him, while Dr. May and the governor alone awaited his arrival.  Tom's visit was
still very recent; and Leonard entered with anxious eyes, brow drawn together, and compressed
lips, as though braced to meet another blow; and the unusual room, the presence of the governor
instead of the warder, and Dr. May's irrepressible emotion, so confirmed the impression, that
his face at once assumed a resolute look of painful expectation.

'My boy,' said Dr. May, clasping both his hands in his own, 'you have borne much of ill.  Can
you bear to hear good news?'

'Am I to be sent out to Australia already?' said Leonard--for a shortening of the eight years
before his ticket-of-leave was the sole hope that had presented itself.

'Sent out, yes; out to go wherever you please, Leonard.  The right is come round.  The truth
is out.  You are a free man!  Do you know what that is?  It is a pardon.  Your pardon.  All
that can be done to right you, my boy--but it is as good as a reversal of the sentence.'

The Doctor had spoken this with pauses; going on, as Leonard, instead of answering, stood like
one in a dream, and at last said with difficulty, 'Who did it then?'

'It was as you always believed.'

'Has he told?' said Leonard, drawing his brows together with the effort to understand.

'No, Leonard.  The vengeance he had brought on himself did not give space for repentance; but
the pocket-book, with your receipt, was upon him, and your innocence is established.'

'And let me congratulate you,' added the governor, shaking hands with him; 'and add, that all
I have known of you has been as complete an exculpation as any discovery can be.'

Leonard's hand was passive, his cheek had become white, his forehead still knit.  'Axworthy!'
he said, still as in a trance.

'Yes.  Hurt in a brawl at Paris.  He was brought to the Hotel Dieu; and my son Tom was called
to see him.'

'Sam Axworthy! repeated Leonard, putting his hand over his eyes, as if one sensation overpowered
everything else; and thus he stood for some seconds, to the perplexity of both.

They showed him the papers: he gazed, but without comprehension; and then putting the bag,
provided by Tom, into his hand, they sent him, moving in a sort of mechanical obedience, into
the room of one of the officials to change his dress.

Dr. May poured out to the governor and chaplain, who by this time had joined them, the history
of Leonard's generous behaviour at the time of the trial, and listened in return to their account
of the growing impression he had created--a belief, almost reluctant, that instead of being
their prime specimen, he could only be in their hands by mistake. He was too sincere not to
have confessed had he been really guilty; and in the long run, such behaviour as his would
have been impossible in one unrepentant.  He had been the more believed from the absence of
complaint, demonstration, or assertion; and the constant endeavour to avoid notice, coupled
with the quiet thorough execution of whatever was set before him with all his might.

This was a theme to occupy the Doctor for a long time; but at last he grew eager for Leonard's
return, and went to hasten him.  He started up, still in the convict garb, the bag untouched.

'I beg your pardon,' he said, when his friend's exclamation had reminded him of what had been
desired of him; and in a few minutes he reappeared in the ordinary dress of a gentleman, but
the change did not seem to have made him realize his freedom--there was the same submissive
manner, the same conventional gesture of respect in reply to the chaplain's warm congratulation.

'Come, Leonard, I am always missing the boat, but I don't want to do so now.  We must get home
to-night.  Have you anything to take with you?'

'My Bible and Prayer-Book.  They are my own, sir;' as he turned to the governor.  'May I go
to my cell for them?'

Again they tarried long for him, and became afraid that he had fallen into another reverie;
but going to fetch him, found that the delay was caused by the farewells of all who had come
in his way.  The tidings of his full justification had spread, and each official was eager
to wish him good speed, and thank him for the aid of his example and support. The schoolmaster,
who had of late treated him as a friend, kept close to him, rejoicing in his liberation, but
expecting to miss him sorely; and such of the convicts as were within reach, were not without
their share in the general exultation.  He had never galled them by his superiority; and though
Brown, the clerk, had been his only friend, he had done many an act of kindness; and when writing
letters for the unlearned, had spoken many a wholesome simple word that had gone home to the
heart.  His hand was as ready for a parting grasp from a fellow-prisoner as from a warder;
and his thought and voice were recalled to leave messages for men out of reach; his eyes moistened
at the kindly felicitations; but when he was past the oft-trodden precincts of the inner court
and long galleries, the passiveness returned, and he received the last good-byes of the governor
and superior officers, as if only half alive to their import.  And thus, silent, calm, and
grave, his composure like that of a man walking in his sleep, did Leonard Ward pass the arched
gateway, enter on the outer world, and end his three and a half years of penal servitude.

'I'm less like an angel than he is like St. Peter,' thought Dr. May, as he watched the fixed
dreamy gaze, 'but this is like "yet wist he not that it was true, but thought he saw a vision."
When will he realize liberty, and enjoy it?  I shall do him a greater kindness by leaving him
to himself.'

And in spite of his impatience, Dr. May refrained from disturbing that open-eyed trance all
the way down the long hill, trusting to the crowd in the steamer for rousing him to perceive
that he was no longer among russet coats and blue shirts; but he stood motionless, gazing,
or at least his face turned, towards the Dorset coast, uttering no word, making no movement,
save when summoned by his guide--then obeying as implicitly as though it were his jailor.

So they came to the pier; and so they walked the length of Weymouth, paced the platform, and
took their places in the train.  Just as they had shot beyond the town, and come into the little
wooded valleys beyond, Leonard turned round, and with the first sparkle in his eye, exclaimed,
'Trees!  Oh, noble trees and hedges!' then turned again to look in enchantment at the passing
groups--far from noble, though bright with autumn tints--that alternated with the chalk downs.

Dr. May was pleased at this revival, and entertained at the start and glance of inquiring alarm
from an old gentleman in the other corner. Presently, in the darkness of a cutting, again Leonard
spoke: 'Where are you taking me, Dr. May?'

'Home, of course.'

Whatever the word might imply to the poor lad, he was satisfied, and again became absorbed
in the sight of fields, trees, and hedgerows; while Dr. May watched the tokens of secret dismay
in their fellow-traveller, who had no doubt understood 'home' to mean his private asylum. 
Indeed, though the steady full dark eyes showed no aberration, there was a strange deep cave
between the lid and the eyebrow, which gave a haggard look; the spare, worn, grave features
had an expression--not indeed weak, nor wandering, but half bewildered, half absorbed, moreover,
in spite of Tom's minute selection of apparel, it had been too hasty a toilette for the garments
to look perfectly natural; and the cropped head was so suspicious, that it was no wonder that
at the first station, the old gentleman gathered up his umbrella, with intense courtesy squeezed
gingerly to the door, carefully avoiding any stumble over perilous toes, and made his escape--entering
another carriage, whence he no doubt signed cautions against the lunatic and his keeper, since
no one again invaded their privacy.

Perhaps this incident most fully revealed to the Doctor, how unlike other people his charge
was, how much changed from the handsome spirited lad on whom the trouble had fallen; and he
looked again and again at the profile turned to the window, as fixed and set as though it had
been carved.

'Ah, patience is an exhausting virtue!' said he to himself.  'Verily it is bearing--bearing
up under the full weight; and the long bent spring is the slower in rebounding in proportion
to its inherent strength. Poor lad, what protracted endurance it has been!  There is health
and force in his face; no line of sin, nor sickness, nor worldly care, such as it makes one's
heart ache to see aging young faces; yet how utterly unlike the face of one and-twenty!  I
had rather see it sadder than so strangely settled and sedate!  Shall I speak to him again?
Not yet: those green hill-sides, those fields and cattle, must refresh him better than my clavers,
after his grim stony mount of purgatory.  I wish it were a brighter day to greet him, instead
of this gray damp fog.'

The said fog prevented any semblance of sunset; but through the gray moonlit haze, Leonard
kept his face to the window, pertinaciously clearing openings in the bedewed glass, as though
the varying outline of the horizon had a fascination for him.  At last, after ten minutes of
glaring gas at a junction had by contrast rendered the mist impenetrable, and reduced the view
to brightened clouds of steam, and to white telegraphic posts, erecting themselves every moment,
with their wires changing their perspective in incessant monotony, he ceased his gaze, and
sat upright in his place, with the same strange rigid somnambulist air.

Dr. May resolved to rouse him.

'Well, Leonard,' he said, 'this has been a very long fever; but we are well through it at last--with
the young doctor from Paris to our aid.'

Probably Leonard only heard the voice, not the words, for he passed his hand over his face,
and looked up to the Doctor, saying dreamily, 'Let me see!  Is it all true?' and then, with
a grave wistful look, 'It was not I who did that thing, then?'

'My dear!' exclaimed the Doctor, starting forward, and catching hold of his hand, 'have they
brought you to this?'

'I always meant to ask you, if I ever saw you alone again,' said Leonard.

'But you don't mean that you have imagined it!'

'Not constantly--not when any one was with me,' said Leonard, roused by Dr. May's evident dismay;
and drawn on by his face of anxious inquiry. 'At Milbank, I generally thought I remembered
it just as they described it in court, and that it was some miserable ruinous delusion that
hindered my confessing; but the odd thing was, that the moment any one opened my door, I forgot
all about it, resolutions and all, and was myself again.'

'Then surely--surely you left that horror with the solitude?'

'Yes, till lately; but when it did come back, I could not be sure what was recollection of
fact, and what of my own fancy;' and he drew his brows together in painful effort.  'Did I
know who did it, or did I only guess?'

'You came to a right conclusion, and would not let me act on it.'

'And I really did write the receipt, and not dream it?'

'That receipt has been in my hand.  It was what has brought you here.' And now to hearing ears,
Dr. May went over the narrative; and Leonard stood up under the little lamp in the roof of
the carriage to read the papers.

'I recollect--I understand,' he said, presently, and sat down, grave and meditative--no longer
dreamy, but going over events, which had at last acquired assurance to his memory from external
circumstances. Presently his fingers were clasped together over his face, his head bent, and
then he looked up, and said, 'Do they know it--my sister and brother?'

'No.  We would not write till you were free.  You must date the first letter from Stoneborough.'

The thought had brought a bitter pang.  'One half year sooner--' and he leant back in his seat,
with fingers tightly pressed together, and trembling with emotion.

'Nay, Leonard; may not the dear child be the first to rejoice in the fulfilment of her own
sweet note of comfort?  They could not harm the innocent.'

'Not innocent,' he said, 'not innocent of causing all the discord that has ended in their exile,
and the dear child's death.'

'Then this is what has preyed on you, and changed you so much more of late,' said Dr. May.

'When I knew that I was indeed guilty of her death,' said Leonard, in a calm full conviction
of too long standing to be accompanied with agitation, though permanently bowing him down.

'And you never spoke of this: not to the chaplain?'

'I never could.  It would have implied all the rest that he could not believe.  And it would
not have changed the fact.'

'The aspect of it may change, Leonard.  You know yourself how many immediate causes combined,
of which you cannot accuse yourself--your brother's wrongheadedness, and all the rest.  And,'
added the Doctor, recovering himself, 'you do see it in other aspects, I know.  Think of the
spirit set free to be near you--free from the world that has gone so hard with you!'

'I can't keep that thought long; I'm not worthy of it.'

Again he was silent; but presently said, as with a sudden thought, 'You would have told me
if there were any news of Ave.'

'No, there has been no letter since her last inclosure for you,' and then Dr. May gave the
details from the papers on the doings of Henry's division of the army.

'Will Henry let me be with them?' said Leonard, musingly.

'They will come home, depend upon it.  You must wait till you hear.'

Leonard thought a little while, then said, 'Where did you say I was to go, Dr. May?'

'Where, indeed?  Home, Leonard--home.  Ethel is waiting for us.  To the High Street.'

Leonard looked up again with his bewildered face, then said, 'I know what you do with me will
be right, but--'

'Had you rather not?' said the Doctor, startled.

'Rather!' and the Doctor, to his exceeding joy, saw the fingers over his eyes moist with the
tears they tried to hide; 'I only meant--' he added, with an effort, 'you must think and judge--I
can't think--whether I ought.'

'If you ask me that,' said Dr. May, earnestly, 'all I have to say is, that I don't know what
palace is worthy of you.'

There was not much said after that; and the Doctor fell asleep, waking only at the halts at
stations to ask where he was.

At last came 'Blewer!' and as the light shone on the clock, Leonard said, 'A quarter past twelve!
It is the very train I went by!  Is it a dream?'

Ten minutes more, and 'Stoneborough' was the cry.  Hastily springing out, shuffling the tickets
into the porter's hand, and grappling Leonard's arm as if he feared an escape, Dr. May hurried
him into the empty streets, and strode on in silence.

The pull at the door-bell was answered instantly by Ethel herself. She held out her hand, and
grasped that which Leonard had almost withheld, shrinking as from too sudden a vision; and
then she ardently exchanged kisses with her father.

'Where's Tom?  Gone to bed?' said Dr. May, stepping into the bright drawing-room.

'No,' said Ethel, demurely; 'he is gone--he is gone to America.'

The Doctor gave a prodigious start, and looked at her again.

'He went this afternoon.' she said.  'There is some matter about the 'Diseases of Climate'
that he must settle before the book is published; and he thought he could best be spared now.
He has left messages that I will give you by and by; but you must both be famished.'

Her looks indicated that all was right, and both turned to welcome the guest, who stood where
the first impulse had left him, in the hall, not moving forward, till he was invited in to
the fire, and the meal already spread.  He then obeyed, and took the place pointed out; while
the Doctor nervously expatiated on the cold, damp, and changes of train; and Ethel, in the
active bashfulness of hidden agitation, made tea, cut bread, carved chicken, and waited on
them with double assiduity, as Leonard, though eating as a man who had fasted since early morning,
was passive as a little child, merely accepting what was offered to him, and not even passing
his cup till she held out her hand for it.

She did not even dare to look at him; she could not bear that he should see her do so; it was
enough to know that he was free--that he was there--that it was over.  She did not want to
see how it had changed him; and, half to set him at ease, half to work off her own excitement,
she talked to her father, and told him of the little events of his absence till the meal was
over; and, at half-past one, good nights were exchanged with Leonard, and the Doctor saw him
to his room, then returned to his daughter on her own threshold.

'That's a thing to have lived for,' he said.

Ethel locked her hands together, and looked up.

'And now, how about this other denouement?  I might have guessed that the wind sat in that
quarter.'

'But you're not to guess it, papa.  It is really and truly about the 'Diseases of Climate'.'

'Swamp fevers, eh! and agues!'

The 'if you can help it,' was a great comfort now; Ethel could venture on saying, 'Of course
that has something to do with it; but he really does make the book his object; and please--please
don't give any hint that you suspect anything else.'

'I suppose you are in his confidence; and I must ask no questions.'

'I hated not telling you, and letting you tease him; but he trusted me just enough not to make
me dare to say a word; though I never was sure there was a word to say.  Now do just once own,
papa, that Tom is the romantic one after all, to have done as he did in the height of the trouble.'

'Well in his place so should I,' said the Doctor, with the perverseness of not satisfying expectations
of amazement.

'You would,' said Ethel; 'but Tom! would you have thought it of Tom?'

'Tom has more in him than shows through his spectacles,' answered Dr. May.  'So!  That's the
key to his restless fit.  Poor fellow!  How did it go with him?  They have not been carrying
it on all this time, surely!'

'Oh, no, no, papa!  She cut him to the heart, poor boy! thought he was laughing at her--told
him it had all been irony.  He has no notion whether she will ever forgive him.'

'A very good lesson, Master Doctor Thomas,' said Dr. May, with a twinkle in his eye; 'and turn
out as it will, it has done him good--tided him over a dangerous time of life.  Well, you must
tell me all about it to-morrow; I'm too sleepy to know what I'm talking of.'

The sleepiness that always finished off the Doctor's senses at the right moment, was a great
preservative of his freshness and vigour; but Ethel was far from sharing it, and was very glad
when the clock sounded a legitimate hour for getting up, and dressing by candle-light, briefly
answering Gertrude's eager questions on the arrival. It was a pouring wet morning, and she
forbade Daisy to go to church--indeed, it would have been too bad for herself on any morning
but this--any but this, as she repeated, smiling at her own spring of thankfulness, as she
fortified herself with a weight of waterproof, and came forth in the darkness of 7.45, on a
grim November day.

A few steps before her, pacing on, umbrellaless, was a figure which made her hurry to overtake him.

'O, Leonard! after your journey, and in this rain!'

He made a gesture of courtesy, but moved as if to follow, not join her. Did he not know whether
he were within the pale of humanity?

'Here is half an umbrella.  Won't you hold it for me?' she said; and as he followed his instinct
of obedience, she put it into his hand, and took his arm, thinking that this familiarity would
best restore him to a sense of his regained position; and, moreover, feeling glad and triumphant
to be thus leaning, and to have that strong arm to contend with the driving blast that came
howling round the corner of Minster Street, and fighting for their shelter.  They were both
out of breath when they paused to recover in the deep porch of the Minster.

'Is Dr. May come home?'

'Yes--and--'

Ethel signed, and Mr. Wilmot held out an earnest hand, with, 'This is well.  I am glad to see you.'

'Thank you, sir,' said Leonard, heartily; 'and for all--'

'This is your new beginning of life, Leonard.  God bless you in it.'

As Mr. Wilmot passed on, Ethel for the first time ventured to look up into the eyes--and saw
their hollow setting, their loss of sparkle, but their added steadfastness and resolution.

Clara might have had such sensations when she bound the spurs on her knight's heels, yet even
she could hardly have had so pure, unselfish, and exquisite a joy as Ethel's, in receiving
the pupil who had been in a far different school from hers.

The gray dawn through the gloom, the depths of shadow in the twilight church, softening and
rendering all more solemn and mysterious, were more in accordance than bright and beamy sunshine
with her subdued grave thankfulness; and there was something suitable in the fewness of the
congregation that had gathered in the Lady Chapel--so few, that there was no room for shyness,
either in, or for, him who was again taking his place there, with steady composed demeanour,
its stillness concealing so much.

Ethel had reckoned on the verse--'That He might hear the mournings of such as are in captivity,
and deliver the children appointed unto death.'  But she had not reckoned on its falling on
her ears in the deep full-toned melodious bass, that came in, giving body to the young notes
of the choristers--a voice so altered and mellowed since she last had heard it, that it made
her look across in doubt, and recognize in the uplifted face, that here indeed the freed captive
was at home, and lifted above himself.

When the clause, in the Litany, for all prisoners and captives brought to her the thrill that
she had only to look up to see the fulfilment of many and many a prayer for one captive, for
once she did not hear the response, only saw the bent head, as though there were thoughts went
too deep to find voice.  And again, there was the special thanksgiving that Mr. Wilmot could
not refrain from introducing for one to whom a great mercy had been vouchsafed. If Ethel had
had to swim home, she would not but have been there!

Charles Cheviot addressed them as they came out of church: 'Good morning--Mr. Ward, I hope
to do myself the honour of calling on you--I shall see you again, Ethel.

And off he went over the glazy stones to his own house, Ethel knowing that this cordial salutation
and intended call were meant to be honourable amends for his suspicions; but Leonard, unconscious
of the import, and scarcely knowing indeed that he was addressed, made his mechanical gesture
of respect, and looked up, down, and round, absorbed in the scene.  'How exactly the same it
all looks,' he said; 'the cloister gate, and the Swan, and the postman in the very same waterproof
cape.'

'Do you not feel like being just awake?'

'No; it is more like being a ghost, or somebody else.'

Then the wind drove them on too fast for speech, till as they crossed the High Street, Ethel
pointed through the plane-trees to two round black eyes, and a shining black nose, at the dining-room
window.

'My Mab, my poor little Mab!--You have kept her all this time!  I was afraid to ask for her.
I could not hope it.'

'I could not get my spoilt child, Gertrude, to bed without taking Mab, that she might see the
meeting.'

Perhaps it served Daisy right that the meeting did not answer her expectations.  Mab and her
master had both grown older; she smelt round him long before she was sure of him, and then
their content in one another was less shown by fervent rapture, than by the quiet hand smoothing
her silken coat; and, in return, by her wistful eye, nestling gesture, gently waving tail.

And Leonard!  How was it with him?  It was not easy to tell in his absolute passiveness.  He
seemed to have neither will nor impulse to speak, move, or act, though whatever was desired
of him, he did with the implicit obedience that no one could bear to see.  They put books near
him, but he did not voluntarily touch one: they asked if he would write to his sister, and
he took the pen in his hand, but did not accomplish a commencement.  Ethel asked him if he
were tired, or had a headache.

'Thank you, no,' he said; 'I'll write,' and made a dip in the ink.

'I did not mean to tease you,' she said; 'the mail is not going just yet, and there is no need
for haste.  I was only afraid something was wrong.'

'Thank you,' he said, submissively; 'I will--when I can think; but it is all too strange. 
I have not seen a lady, nor a room like this, since July three years.'

After that Ethel let him alone, satisfied that peace was the best means of recovering the exhaustion
of his long-suffering.

The difficulty was that this was no house for quiet, especially the day after the master's
return: the door-bell kept on ringing, and each time he looked startled and nervous, though
assured that it was only patients.  But at twelve o'clock in rushed Mr. Cheviot's little brother,
with a note from Mary, lamenting that it was too wet for herself, but saying that Charles was
coming in the afternoon, and that he intended to have a dinner-party of old Stoneborough scholars
to welcome Leonard back.

Meanwhile, Martin Cheviot, wanting to see, and not to stare, and to unite cordiality and unconsciousness,
made an awkward mixture of all, and did not know how to get away; and before he had accomplished
it, Mr. Edward Anderson was announced.  He heartily shook hands with Leonard, eagerly welcomed
him, and talked volubly, and his last communication was, 'If it clears, you will see Matilda
this afternoon.'

'I did not know she was here.'

'Yes; she and Harvey are come to Mrs. Ledwich's, to stay over Sunday;' and there was a laugh
in the corner of his eye, that convinced Ethel that the torrents of rain would be no protection.

'Papa,' said she, darting out to meet her father in the hall, 'you must take Leonard out in
your brougham this afternoon, if you don't want him driven distracted.  If he is in the house,
ropes won't hold Mrs. Harvey Anderson from him!'

So Dr. May invited his guest to share his drive; and the excitement began to seem unreal when
the Doctor returned alone.

'I dropped him at Cocksmoor,' he said.  'It was Richard's notion that he would be quieter there--able
to get out, and go to church, without being stared at.'

'Did he like it?' asked Gertrude, disappointed.

'If one told him to chop off his finger, he would do it, and never show whether he liked it.
Richard asked him, and he said, "Thank you."  I never could get an opening to show him that
we did not want to suppress him; I never saw spirit so quenched.'

Charles Cheviot thought it was a mistake to do what gave the appearance of suppression--he
said that it was due to Leonard to welcome him as heartily as possible, and not to encourage
false shame, where there was no disgrace; so he set his wife to fill up her cards for his dinner-party,
and included in it Mr. and Mrs. Harvey Anderson, for the sake of their warm interest in the
liberated prisoner.

'However, Leonard was out of the scrape,' as the Doctor expressed it, for he had one of his
severe sore throats, and was laid up at Cocksmoor.  Richard was dismayed by his passive obedience--a
novelty to the gentle eldest, who had all his life been submitting, and now was puzzled by
his guest's unfailing acquiescence without a token of preference or independence: and comically
amazed at the implicit fulfilment of his recommendation to keep the throat in bed--a wise suggestion,
but one that the whole house of May, in their own persons, would have scouted.  Nothing short
of the highest authority ever kept them there.

The semblance of illness was perhaps a good starting-point for a return to the ways of the
world; and on the day week of his going to Cocksmoor, Ethel found him by the fire, beginning
his letters to his brother and sister, and looking brighter and more cheery, but so devoid
of voice, that speech could not be expected of him.

She had just looked in again after some parish visiting, when a quick soldierly step was heard,
and in walked Aubrey.

'No; I'm not come to you, Ethel; I'm only come to this fellow;' and he ardently grasped his
hand.  'I've got leave till Monday, and I shall stay here and see nobody else.--What, a sore
throat?  Couldn't you get wrapped up enough between the two doctors?'

Leonard's eyes lighted as he muttered his hoarse 'Thank you,' and Ethel lingered for a little
desultory talk to her brother, contrasting the changes that the three years had made in the
two friends.  Aubrey, drilled out of his home scholarly dreaminess by military and practical
discipline, had exchanged his native languor for prompt upright alertness of bearing and speech;
his eye had grown more steady, his mouth had lost its vague pensive expression, and was rendered
sterner by the dark moustache; definite thought, purpose, and action, had moulded his whole
countenance and person into hopeful manhood, instead of visionary boyhood.  The other face,
naturally the most full of fire and resolution, looked strangely different in its serious unsmiling
gravity, the deeply worn stamp of patient endurance and utter isolation.  There was much of
rest and calm, and even of content--but withal a quenched look, as if the lustre of youth and
hope had been extinguished, and the soul had been so driven in upon itself, that there was
no opening to receive external sympathy--a settled expression, all the stranger on a face with
the clear smoothness of early youth.  One thing at least was unchanged--the firm friendship
and affection--that kept the two constantly casting glances over one another, to assure themselves
of the presence before them.

Ethel left them together; and her father, who made out that he should save time by going to
Cocksmoor Church on Sunday morning, reported that the boys seemed very happy together in their
own way; but that Richard reported himself to have been at the sole expense of conversation
in the evening--the only time such an event could ever have occurred!

Aubrey returned home late on the Sunday evening; and Leonard set off to walk part of the way
with him in the dusk, but ended by coming the whole distance, for the twilight opened their
lips in this renewal of old habits.

'It is all right to be walking together again,' said Aubrey, warmly; 'though it is not like
those spring days.'

'I've thought of them every Sunday.'

'And what are you going to do now, old fellow?'

'I don't know.'

'I hear Bramshaw is going to offer you to come into his office.  Now, don't do that, Leonard,
whatever you do!'

'I don't know.'

'You are to have all your property back, you know, and you could do much better for yourself
than that.'

'I can't tell till I have heard from my brother.'

'But, Leonard, promise me now--you'll not go out and make a Yankee of yourself.'

'I can't tell; I shall do what he wishes.'

Aubrey presently found that Leonard seemed to have no capacity to think or speak of the future
or the past.  He set Aubrey off on his own concerns, and listened with interest, asking questions
that showed him perfectly alive to what regarded his friend, but the passive inaction of will
and spirits still continued, and made him almost a disappointment.

On Monday morning there was a squabble between the young engineer and the Daisy, who was a
profound believer in the scientific object of Tom's journey, and greatly resented the far too
obvious construction thereof.

'You must read lots of bad novels at Chatham, Aubrey; it is like the fag end of the most trumpery
of them all!'

'You haven't gone far enough in your mathematics, you see, Daisy. You think one and one--'

'Make two.  So I say.'

'I've gone into the higher branches.'

'I didn't think you were so simple and commonplace.  It would be so stupid to think he must--just
because he could not help making this discovery.'

'All for want of the higher branches of mathematics!  One plus one--equals one.'

'One minus common sense, plus folly, plus romance, minus anything to do.  Your equation is
worthy of Mrs. Harvey Anderson.  I gave her a good dose of the 'Diseases of Climate!''

Aubrey was looking at Ethel all the time Gertrude was triumphing; and finally he said, 'I've
no absolute faith in disinterested philanthropy to a younger brother--whatever I had before
I went to the Tyrol.'

'What has that to do with it?' asked Gertrude.  'Everybody was cut up, and wanted a change--and
you more than all.  I do believe the possibility of a love affair absolutely drives people
mad: and now they must needs saddle it upon poor Tom--just the one of the family who is not
so stupid, but has plenty of other things to think about.'

'So you think it a stupid pastime?'

'Of course it is.  Why, just look.  Hasn't everybody in the family turned stupid, and of no
use, as soon at they went and fell in love! Only good old Ethel here has too much sense, and
that's what makes her such a dear old gurgoyle.  And Harry--he is twice the fun after he comes
home, before he gets his fit of love.  And all the story books that begin pleasantly, the instant
that love gets in, they are just alike--so stupid!  And now, if you haven't done it yourself,
you want to lug poor innocent Tom in for it.'

'When your time comes, may I be there to see!'

He retreated from her evident designs of clapper-clawing him; and she turned round to Ethel
with, 'Now, isn't it stupid, Ethel!'

'Very stupid to think all the zest of life resides in one particular feeling,' said Ethel;
'but more stupid to talk of what you know nothing about.'

Aubrey put in his head for a hurried farewell, and, 'Telegraph to me when Mrs. Thomas May comes
home.'

'If Mrs. Thomas May comes home, I'll--'

'Give her that chair cover,' said Ethel; and her idle needlewoman, having been eight months
working one corner of it, went off into fits of laughter, regarding its completion as an equally
monstrous feat with an act of cannibalism on the impossible Mrs. Thomas May.

How different were these young things, with their rhodomontade and exuberant animation and
spirits, from him in whom all the sparkle and aspiration of life seemed extinguished!

CHAPTER XXVII

  A cup was at my lips: it pass'd
  As passes the wild desert blast!
           *****
  I woke--around me was a gloom
  And silence of the tomb;
  But in that awful solitude
  That little spirit by me stood--
  But oh, how changed!
              --Thoughts in Past Years

Under Richard's kind let-alone system, Leonard was slowly recovering tone.  First he took to
ruling lines in the Cocksmoor account-books, then he helped in their audit; and with occupation
came the sense of the power of voluntary exertion.  He went and came freely, and began to take
long rambles in the loneliest parts of the heath and plantations, while Richard left him scrupulously
to his own devices, and rejoiced to see them more defined and vigorous every day.  The next
stop was to assist in the night-school where Richard had hitherto toiled single-handed among
very rough subjects.  The technical training and experience derived from Leonard's work under
the schoolmaster at Portland were invaluable; and though taking the lead was the last thing
he would have thought of, he no sooner entered the school than attention and authority were
there, and Richard found that what had to him been a vain and patient struggle was becoming
both effective and agreeable.  Interest in his work was making Leonard cheerful and alert,
though still grave, and shrinking from notice--avoiding the town by daylight, and only coming
to Dr. May's in the dark evenings.

On the last Sunday in Advent, Richard was engaged to preach at his original curacy, and that
the days before and after it should likewise be spent away from home was insisted on after
the manner of the friends of hard-working clergy.  He had the less dislike to going that he
could leave his school-work to Leonard, who was to be housed at his father's, and there was
soon perceived to have become a much more ordinary member of society than on his first arrival.

One evening, there was a loud peal at the door-bell, and the maid--one of Ethel's experiments
of training--came in.

'Please, sir, a gentleman has brought a cockatoo and a letter and a little boy from the archdeacon.'

'Archdeacon!' cried Dr. May, catching sight of the handwriting on the letter and starting up.
'Archdeacon Norman--'

'One of Norman's stray missionaries and a Maori newly caught; oh, what fun!' cried Daisy, in
ecstasy.

At that moment, through the still open door, walking as if he had lived there all his life,
there entered the prettiest little boy that ever was seen--a little knickerbocker boy, with
floating rich dark ringlets, like a miniature cavalier coming forth from a picture, with a
white cockatoo on his wrist.  Not in the least confused, he went straight towards Dr. May and
said, 'Good-morning, grandpapa.'

'Ha!  And who may you be, my elfin prince?' said the Doctor.

'I'm Dickie--Richard Rivers May--I'm not an elfin prince,' said the boy, with a moment's hurt
feeling.  'Papa sent me.'  By that time the boy was fast in his grandfather's embrace, and
was only enough released to give him space to answer the eager question, 'Papa--papa here?'

'Oh no; I came with Mr. Seaford.'

The Doctor hastily turned Dickie over to the two aunts, and hastened forth to the stranger,
whose name he well knew as a colonist's son, a favourite and devoted clerical pupil of Norman's.

'Aunt Ethel,' said little Richard, with instant recognition; 'mamma said you would be like
her, but I don't think you will.'

'Nor I, Dickie, but we'll try.  And who's that!'

'Yes, what am I to be like?' asked Gertrude.

'You're not Aunt Daisy--Aunt Daisy is a little girl.'

Gertrude made him the lowest of curtseys; for not to be taken for a little girl was the compliment
she esteemed above all others. Dickie's next speech was, 'And is that Uncle Aubrey?'

'No, that's Leonard.'

Dickie shook hands with him very prettily; but then returning upon Ethel, observed, 'I thought
it was Uncle Aubrey, because soldiers always cut their hair so close.'

The other guest was so thoroughly a colonist, and had so little idea of anything but primitive
hospitality, that he had had no notion of writing beforehand to announce his coming, and accident
had delayed the letters by which Norman and Meta had announced their decision of sending home
their eldest boy under his care.

'Papa had no time to teach me alone,' said Dickie, who seemed to have been taken into the family
councils; 'and mamma is always busy, and I wasn't getting any good with some of the boys that
come to school to papa.'

'Indeed, Mr. Dickie!' said the Doctor, full of suppressed laughter.

'It is quite true,' said Mr. Seaford; 'there are some boys that the archdeacon feels bound
to educate, but who are not desirable companions for his son.'

'It is a great sacrifice,' remarked the young gentleman.

'Oh, Dickie, Dickie,' cried Gertrude, in fits, 'don't you be a prig--'

'Mamma said it,' defiantly answered Dickie.

'Only a parrot,' said Ethel, behind her handkerchief; but Dickie, who heard whatever he was
not meant to hear, answered--

'It is not a parrot, it is a white cockatoo, that the chief of (something unutterable) brought
down on his wrist like a hawk to the mission-ship; and that mamma sent as a present to Uncle
George.'

'I prefer the parrot that has fallen to my share,' observed the Doctor.

It was by this time perched beside him, looking perfectly at ease and thoroughly at home. 
There was something very amusing in the aspect of the little man; he so completely recalled
his mother's humming-bird title by the perfect look of finished porcelain perfection that even
a journey from the Antipodes with only gentleman nursemaids had not destroyed.  The ringleted
rich brown hair shone like glossy silk, the cheeks were like painting, the trim well-made legs
and small hands and feet looked dainty and fairy-like, yet not at all effeminate; hands and
face were a healthy brown, and contrasted with the little white collar, the set of which made
Ethel exclaim, 'Just look, Daisy, that's what I always told you about Meta's doings.  Only
I can't understand it.--Dickie, have the fairies kept you in repair ever since mamma dressed
you last?'

'We haven't any fairies in New Zealand,' he replied; 'and mamma never dressed me since I was
a baby!'

'And what are you now?' said the Doctor.

'I am eight years old,' said this piece of independence, perfectly well mannered, and au fait
in all the customs of the tea-table; and when the meal was over, he confidentially said to
his aunt, 'Shall I come and help you wash up?  I never break anything.'

Ethel declined this kind offer; but he hung on her hand and asked if he might go and see the
schoolroom, where papa and Uncle Harry used to blow soap-bubbles.  She lighted a candle, and
the little gentleman showed himself minutely acquainted with the whole geography of the house,
knew all the rooms and the pictures, and where everything had happened, even to adventures
that Ethel had forgotten.

'It is of no use to say there are no fairies in New Zealand,' said Dr. May, taking him on his
knee, and looking into the blue depths of Norman's eyes.  'You have been head-waiter to Queen
Mab, and perpetually here when she made you put a girdle round the earth in forty minutes.'

'Papa read that to the boys, and they said it was stupid and no use,' said Dickie; 'but papa
said that the electric telegraph would do it.'

The little cavalier appeared not to know what it was to be at a loss for an answer, and the
joint letter from his parents explained that his precocious quickness was one of their causes
for sending him home.  He was so deft and useful as to be important in the household, and necessarily
always living with his father and mother, he took constant part in their conversation, and
was far more learned in things than in books.  In the place where they were settled, trustworthy
boy society was unattainable, and they had felt their little son, in danger of being spoilt
and made forward from his very goodness and brightness--wrote Meta, 'If you find him a forward
imp, recollect it is my fault for having depended so much on him.'

His escort was a specimen of the work Norman had done, not actual mission-work, but preparation
and inspiriting of those who went forth on the actual task.  He was a simple-minded, single-hearted
man, one of the first pupils in Norman's college, and the one who had most fully imbibed his
spirit.  He had been for some years a clergyman, and latterly had each winter joined the mission
voyage among the Melanesian Isles, returning to their homes the lads brought for the summer
for education to the mission college in New Zealand, and spending some time at a station upon
one or other of the islands.  He had come back from the last voyage much out of health, and
had been for weeks nursed by Meta, until a long rest having been declared necessary, he had
been sent to England as the only place where he would not be tempted to work, and was to visit
his only remaining relation, a sister, who had married an officer and was in Ireland. He was
burning to go back again, and eagerly explained--sagely corroborated by the testimony of the
tiny archdeacon--that his illness was to be laid to the blame of his own imprudence, not to
the climate; and he dwelt upon the delights of the yearly voyage among the lovely islands,
beautiful beyond imagination, fenced in by coral breakwaters, within which the limpid water
displayed exquisite sea-flowers, shells, and fishes of magical gorgeousness of hue; of the
brilliant white beach, fringing the glorious vegetation, cocoa-nut, bread-fruit, banana, and
banyan, growing on the sloping sides of volcanic rocks; of mysterious red-glowing volcano lights
seen far out at sea at night, of glades opening to show high-roofed huts covered with mats:
of canoes decorated with the shining white shells resembling a poached egg; of natives clustering
round, eager and excited, seldom otherwise than friendly; though in hitherto unvisited places,
or in those where the wanton outrages of sandal-wood traders had excited distrust, caution
was necessary, and there was peril enough to give the voyage a full character of heroism and
adventure. Bows and poisoned arrows were sometimes brought down--and Dickie insisted that they
had been used--but in general the mission was recognized, and an eager welcome given; presents
of fish-hooks, or of braid and handkerchiefs, established a friendly feeling; and readiness--in
which the Hand of the Maker must be recognized--was manifested to intrust lads to the mission
for the summer's training at the college in New Zealand--wild lads, innocent of all clothing,
except marvellous adornments of their woolly locks, wigged out sometimes into huge cauliflowers
whitened with coral lime, or arranged quarterly red and white, and their noses decorated with
rings, which were their nearest approach to a pocket, as they served for the suspension of
fish-hooks, or any small article.  A radiate arrangement of skewers from the nose, in unwitting
imitation of a cat's whiskers, had even been known.  A few days taught dressing and eating
in a civilized fashion; and time, example, and the wonderful influence of the head of the mission,
trained these naturally intelligent boys into much that was hopeful. Dickie, who had been often
at the college, had much to tell of familiarity with the light canoes that some cut out and
launched; of the teaching them English games, of their orderly ways in school and in hall;
of the prayers in their many tongues, and of the baptism of some, after full probation, and
at least one winter's return to their own isles, as a test of their sincerity and constancy.
Much as the May family had already heard of this wonderful work, it came all the closer and
nearer now. The isle of Alan Ernescliffe's burial-place had now many Christians in it.  Harry's
friend, the young chief David, was dead; but his people were some of them already teachers
and examples, and the whole region was full to overflowing of the harvest, calling out for
labourers to gather it in.

Silent as usual, Leonard nevertheless was listening with all his heart, and with parted lips
and kindling eyes that gave back somewhat of his former countenance.  Suddenly his face struck
Mr. Seaford, and turning on him with a smile, he said, 'You should be with us yourself, you
look cut out for mission work.'

Leonard murmured something, blushed up to the ears, and subsided, but the simple, single-hearted
Mr. Seaford, his soul all on one object, his experience only in one groove, by no means laid
aside the thought, and the moment he was out of Leonard's presence, eagerly asked who that
young man was.

'Leonard Ward? he is--he is the son of an old friend,' replied Dr. May, a little perplexed
to explain his connection.

'What is he doing?  I never saw any one looking more suited for our work.'

'Tell him so again,' said Dr. May; 'I know no one that would be fitter.'

They were all taken up with the small grandson the next day.  He was ready in his fairy-page
trimness to go to the early service at the Minster; but he was full of the colonial nil admirari
principle, and was quite above being struck by the grand old building, or allowing its superiority--either
to papa's own church or Auckland Cathedral. They took him to present to Mary on their way back
from church, when he was the occasion of a great commotion by carrying the precious Master
Charlie all across the hall to his mamma, and quietly observing in resentment at the outcry,
that of course he always carried little Ethel about when mamma and nurse were busy.  After
breakfast, when he had finished his investigations of all Dr. May's domains, and much entertained
Gertrude by his knowledge of them, Ethel set him down to write a letter to his father, and
her own to Meta being engrossing, she did not look much more after him till Dr. May came in,
and said, 'I want you to sketch off a portrait of her dicky-bird for Meta;' and he put before
her a natural history with a figure of that tiny humming-bird which is endowed with swansdown
knickerbockers.

'By the bye, where is the sprite?'

He was not to be found; and when dinner-time, and much calling and searching, failed to produce
him, his grandfather declared that he was gone back to Elf-land; but Leonard recollected certain
particular inquiries about the situation of the Grange and of Cocksmoor, and it was concluded
that he had anticipated the Doctor's intentions of taking him and Mr. Seaford there in the
afternoon.  The notion was confirmed by the cockatoo having likewise disappeared; but there
was no great anxiety, since the little New Zealander appeared as capable of taking care of
himself as any gentleman in Her Majesty's dominions; and a note had already been sent to his
aunt informing her of his arrival.  Still, a summons to the Doctor in an opposite direction
was inopportune, the more so as the guest was to remain at Stoneborough only this one day,
and had letters and messages for Mr. and Mrs. Rivers, while it was also desirable to see whether
the boy had gone to Cocksmoor.

Leonard proposed to become Mr. Seaford's guide to the Grange, learn whether Dickie were there,
and meet the two ladies at Cocksmoor with the tidings, leaving Mr. Seaford and the boy to be
picked up by the Doctor on his return.  It was his first voluntary offer to go anywhere, though
he had more than once been vainly invited to the Grange with Richard.

Much conversation on the mission took place during the walk, and resulted in Mr. Seaford's
asking Leonard if his profession were settled.  'No,' he said; and not at all aware that his
companion did not know what every other person round him knew, he added, 'I have been thrown
out of everything--I am waiting to hear from my brother.'

'Then you are not at a University?'

'Oh no, I was a clerk.'

'Then if nothing is decided, is it impossible that you should turn your eyes to our work?'

'Stay,' said Leonard, standing still; 'I must ask whether you know all about me.  Would it
be possible to admit to such work as yours one who, by a terrible mistake, has been under sentence
of death and in confinement for three years?'

'I must think!  Let us talk of this another time.  Is that the Grange?' hastily exclaimed the
missionary, rather breathlessly. Leonard with perfect composure replied that it was, pointed
out the different matters of interest, and, though a little more silent, showed no other change
of manner.  He was asking the servant at the door if Master May were there, when Mr. Rivers
came out and conducted both into the drawing room, where little Dickie was, sure enough.  It
appeared that, cockatoo on wrist, he had put his pretty face up to the glass of Mrs Rivers's
morning-room, and had asked her, 'Is this mamma's room, Aunt Flora?  Where's Margaret?'

Uncle, aunt, and cousin had all been captivated by him, and he was at present looking at the
display of all Margaret's treasures, keenly appreciating the useful and ingenious, but condemning
the merely ornamental as only fit for his baby sister.  Margaret was wonderfully gracious and
child-like; but perhaps she rather oppressed him; for when Leonard explained that he must go
on to meet Miss May at Cocksmoor, the little fellow sprang up, declaring that he wanted to
go thither; and though told that his grandfather was coming for him, and that the walk was
long, he insisted that he was not tired; and Mr. Seaford, finding him not to be dissuaded,
broke off his conversation in the midst, and insisted on accompanying him, leaving Mr. and
Mrs. Rivers rather amazed at colonial breeding.

The first time Mr. Seaford could accomplish being alone with Dr. May, he mysteriously shut
the door, and began, 'I am afraid Mrs. Rivers thought me very rude; but though no doubt he
is quite harmless, I could not let the child or the ladies be alone with him.'

'With whom?'

'With your patient.'

'What patient of mine have you been seeing to-day?' asked Dr. May, much puzzled.

'Oh, then you consider him as convalescent, and certainly he does seem rational on every other
point; but is this one altogether an hallucination?'

'I have not made out either the hallucination or the convalescent.  I beg your pardon,' said
the courteous Doctor; 'but I cannot understand whom you have seen.'

'Then is not that young Ward a patient of yours?  He gave me to understand to-day that he has
been under confinement for three years--'

'My poor Leonard!' exclaimed the Doctor; 'I wish his hair would grow! This is the second time!
And did you really never hear of the Blewer murder, and of Leonard Ward?'

Mr. Seaford had some compound edifice of various murders in his mind, and required full enlightenment.
Having heard the whole, he was ardent to repair his mistake, both for Leonard's own sake, and
that of his cause.  The young man was indeed looking ill and haggard; but there was something
in the steady eyes, hollow though they still were, and in the determined cast of features,
that strangely impressed the missionary with a sense of his being moulded for the work; and
on the first opportunity a simple straightforward explanation of the error was laid before
Leonard, with an entreaty that if he had no duties to bind him at home, he would consider the
need of labourers in the great harvest of the Southern Seas.

Leonard made no answer save 'Thank you' and that he would think.  The grave set features did
not light up as they had done unconsciously when listening without personal thought; he only
looked considering, and accepted Mr. Seaford's address in Ireland, promising to write after
hearing from his brother.

Next morning, Dr. May gave notice that an old patient was coming to see him, and must be asked
to luncheon.  Leonard soon after told Ethel that he should not be at home till the evening,
and she thought he was going to Cocksmoor, by way of avoiding the stranger.  In the twilight,
however, Dr. May, going up to the station to see his patient off, was astonished to see Leonard
emerge from a second-class carriage.

'You here! the last person I expected.'

'I have only been to W---- about my teeth.'

'What, have you been having tooth-ache?'

'At times, but I have had two out, so I hope there is an end of it.'

'And you never mentioned it, you Stoic!'

'It was only at night.'

'And how long has this been?'

'Since I had that cold; but it was no matter.'

'No matter, except that it kept you looking like Count Ugolino, and me always wondering what
was the matter with you.  And'--detaining him for a moment under the lights of the station--'this
extraction must have been a pretty business, to judge by your looks!  What did the dentist
do to you?'

'It is not so much that' said Leonard, low and sadly; 'but I began to have a hope, and I see
it won't do.'

'What do you mean, my dear boy? what have you been doing?'

'I have been into my old cell again,' said he, under his breath; and Dr. May, leaning on his
arm, felt his nervous tremor.

'Prisoner of the Bastille, eh, Leonard!'

'I had long been thinking that I ought to go and call on Mr. Reeve and thank him.'

'But he does not receive calls there.'

'No,' said Leonard, as if the old impulse to confidence had returned; 'but I have never been
so happy since, as I was in that cell, and I wanted to see it again.  Not only for that reason,'
he added, 'but something that Mr. Seaford said brought back a remembrance of what Mr. Wilmot
told me when my life was granted--something about the whole being preparation for future work--something
that made me feel ready for anything.  It had all gone from me--all but the remembrance of
the sense of a blessed Presence and support in that condemned cell, and I thought perhaps ten
minutes in the same place would bring it back to me.'

'And did they?'

'No, indeed.  As soon as the door was locked, it all went back to July 1860, and worse.  Things
that were mercifully kept from me then, mere abject terror of death, and of that kind of death--the
disgrace--the crowds--all came on me, and with them, the misery all in one of those nine months;
the loathing of those eternal narrow waved white walls, the sense of their closing in, the
sickening of their sameness, the longing for a voice, the other horror of thinking myself guilty.
The warder said it was ten minutes--I thought it hours!  I was quite done for, and could hardly
get down-stairs.  I knew the spirit was being crushed out of me by the solitary period, and
it is plain that I must think of nothing that needs nerve or presence of mind!' he added, in
a tone of quiet dejection.

'You are hardly in a state to judge of your nerve, after sleepless nights and the loss of your
teeth.  Besides, there is a difference between the real and imaginary, as you have found; you
who, in the terrible time of real anticipation, were a marvel in that very point of physical
resolution.'

'I could keep thoughts out then,' he said; 'I was master of myself.'

'You mean that the solitude unhinged you?  Yet I always found you brave and cheerful.'

'The sight of you made me so.  Nay, the very sight or sound of any human being made a difference!
And now you all treat me as if I had borne it well, but I did not.  It was all that was left
me to do, but indeed I did not.'

'What do you mean by bearing it well?' said the Doctor, in the tone in which he would have
questioned a patient.

'Living--as--as I thought I should when I made up my mind to life instead of death,' said Leonard;
'but all that went away.  I let it slip, and instead came everything possible of cowardice,
and hatred, and bitterness.  I lost my hold of certainty what I had done or what I had not,
and the horror, the malice, the rebellion that used to come on me in that frightful light white
silent place, were unutterable!  I wish you would not have me among you all, when I know there
can hardly be a wicked thought that did not surge over me.'

'To be conquered.'

'To conquer me,' he said, in utter lassitude.

'Stay.  Did they ever make you offend wilfully?'

'There was nothing I could offend in.'

'Your tasks of work, for instance.'

'I often had a savage frantic abhorrence of it, but I always brought myself to do it, and it
did me good; it would have done more if it had been less mechanical.  But it often was only
the instinct of not degrading myself like the lowest prisoners.'

'Well, there was your conduct to the officials.'

'Oh! one could not help being amenable to them, they were so kind. Besides, these demons never
came over me except when I was alone.'

'And one thing more, Leonard; did these demons, as you well call them, invade your devotions?'

'Never,' he answered readily; then recalling himself--'not at the set times I mean, though
they often made me think the comfort I had there mere hypocrisy and delusion, and be nearly
ready to give over what depended on myself.  Chapel was always joy; it brought change and the
presence of others, if nothing else; and that would in itself have been enough to banish the
hauntings.'

'And they did not interfere with your own readings?' said the Doctor, preferring this to the
word that he meant.

'I could not let them,' said Leonard.  'There was always refreshment; it was only before and
after that all would seem mockery, profanation, or worse still, delusion and superstition--as
if my very condition proved that there was none to hear.'

'The hobgoblin had all but struck the book out of Christian's hand,' said Dr. May, pressing
his grasp on Leonard's shuddering arm.  'You are only telling me that you have been in the
valley of the shadow of death; you have not told me that you lost the rod and staff.'

'No, I must have been helped, or I should not have my senses now.'

And perhaps it was the repressed tremor of voice and frame rather than the actual words that
induced the Doctor to reply--'That is the very point, Leonard.  It is the temptation to us
doctors to ascribe too much to the physical and too little to the moral; and perhaps you would
be more convinced by Mr. Wilmot than by me; but I do verily believe that all the anguish you
describe could and would have been insanity if grace had not been given you to conquer it.
It was a tottering of the mind upon its balance; and, humanly speaking, it was the self-control
that enabled you to force yourself to your duties, and find relief in them, which saved you.
I should just as soon call David conquered because the "deep waters had come in over his soul."'

'You can never know how true those verses are,' said Leonard, with another shiver.

'At least I know to what kind of verses they all lead,' said the Doctor; 'and I am sure they
led you, and that you had more and brighter hours than you now remember.'

'Yes, it was not all darkness.  I believe there were more spaces than I can think of now, when
I was very fairly happy, even at Pentonville; and at Portland all did well with me, till last
spring, and then the news from Massissauga brought back all the sense of blood-guiltiness,
and it was worse than ever.'

'And that sense was just as morbid as your other horrible doubt, about which you asked me when
we were coming home.'

'I see it was now, but that was the worst time of all--the monotony of school, and the sense
of hypocrisy and delusion in teaching--the craving to confess, if only for the sake of the
excitement, and the absolute inability to certify myself whether there was any crime to confess--I
can't talk about it.  And even chapel was not the same refreshment, when one was always teaching
a class in it, as coming in fresh only for the service.  Even that was failing me, or I thought
it was!  No, I do not know how I could have borne it much longer.'

'No, Leonard, you could not; Tom and I both saw that in your looks, and quite expected to hear
of your being ill; but, you see, we are never tried above what we can bear!'

'No,' said Leonard, very low, as if he had been much struck; and then he added, after an interval,
'It is over now, and there's no need to recollect it except in the way of thanks.  The question
is what it has left me fit for.  You know, Dr. May,' and his voice trembled, 'my first and
best design in the happy time of Coombe, the very crown of my life, was this very thing--to
be a missionary.  But for myself, I might be in training now.  If I had only conquered my temper,
and accepted that kind offer of Mr. Cheviot's, all this would never have been, and I should
have had my youth, my strength, and spirit, my best, to devote. I turned aside because of my
obstinacy, against warning, and now how can I offer?--one who has stood at the bar, lived among
felons, thought such thoughts--the released convict with a disgraced name!  It would just be
an insult to the ministry!  No, I know how prisoners feel.  I can deal with them.  Let me go
back to what I am trained for.  My nerve and spirit have been crushed out; I am fit for nothing
else.  The worst thing that has remained with me is this nervousness--cowardice is its right
name--starting at the sound of a door, or at a fresh face--a pretty notion that I should land
among savages!'

Dr. May had begun an answer about the remains of the terrible ordeal that might in itself have
been part of Leonard's training, when they reached the house door.

These nerves, or whatever they were, did indeed seem disposed to have no mercy on their owner;
for no sooner had he sat down in the warm drawing-room, than such severe pain attacked his
face as surpassed even his powers of concealment.  Dr. May declared it was all retribution
for his unfriendliness in never seeking sympathy or advice, which might have proved the evil
to be neuralgia and saved the teeth, instead of aggravating the evil by their extraction.

'I suspect he has been living on nothing,' said Dr. May, when, in a lull of the pain, Leonard
had gone to bed.

'Papa!' exclaimed Gertrude, 'don't you know what Richard's housekeeping is?  Don't you recollect
his taking that widow for a cook because she was such a good woman?'

'I don't think it was greatly Richard's fault,' said Ethel.  'I can hardly get Leonard to make
a sparrow's meal here, and most likely his mouth has been too uncomfortable.'

'Ay, that never seeking sympathy is to me one of the saddest parts of all.  He has been so
long shut within himself, that he can hardly feel that any one cares for him.'

'He does so more than at first,' said Ethel.

'Much more.  I have heard things from him to-night that are a revelation to me.  Well, he has
come through, and I believe he is recovering it; but the three threads of our being have all
had a terrible wrench, and if body and mind come out unscathed, it is the soundness of the
spirit that has brought them through.'

A sleepless night and morning of violent pain ensued; but, at least thus much had been gained--that
there was no refusal of sympathy, but a grateful acceptance of kindness, so that it almost
seemed a recurrence to the Coombe days; and as the pain lessened, the enjoyment of Ethel's
attendance seemed to grow upon Leonard in the gentle languor of relief; and when, as she was
going out for the afternoon, she came back to see if he was comfortable in his easy-chair by
the drawing-room fire, and put a screen before his face, he looked up and thanked her with
a smile--the first she had seen.

When she returned, the winter twilight had closed in, and he was leaning back in the same attitude,
but started up, so that she asked if he had been asleep.  And observe, one o'clock in Indiana
is half-past nine with us.  Then her hair--I wrote to ask, for you know it used to be in long
curls, but it had been cut short, like what I saw. Surely, surely, it was the dear loving spirit
allowed to show itself to me before going quite away to her home!'

'And you have seen her again?'

'Just now'--his voice was even lower than before--'since it grew dark, as I sat there.  I had
left off reading, and had been thinking, when there she was, all white but not wistful now;
"Leonard, dear," she said, "it has not hurt;" and then, "He brought me forth, He brought me
forth even to a place of liberty, because He had a favour unto me."'

'O, Leonard, it must have made you very happy.'

'I am very thankful for it,' he said.  Then after a pause, 'You will not speak of it--you will
not tell me to think it the action of my own mind upon itself.'

'I can only believe it a great blessing come to comfort you and cheer you,' said Ethel: 'cheer
you as with the robin-note, as papa called it, that sung all through the worst of times!  Leonard,
I am afraid you will think it unkind of me to have withheld it so long, but papa told me you
could not yet bear to hear of Minna.  I have her last present for you in charge--the slippers
she was working for that eighteenth birthday of yours.  She would go on, and we never knew
whether she fully understood your danger; it was always "they could not hurt you," and at last,
when they were finished, and I had to make her understand that you could not have them, she
only looked up to me and said, "Please keep them, and give them to him when he comes home."
She never doubted, first or last.'

Ethel, who had daily been watching for the moment, took out the parcel from the drawer, with
the address in the childish writing, the date in her own.

Large tears came dropping from Leonard's eyes, as he undid the paper, and looked at the work,
then said, 'Last time I saw that pattern, my mother was working it!  Dear child!  Yes, Miss
May, I am glad you did not give them to me before.  I always felt as if my blow had glanced
aside and fallen on Minna; but somehow I feel more fully how happy she is!'

'She was the messenger of comfort throughout to Ave and to Ella,' said Ethel, 'and well she
may be to you still.'

'I have dreaded to ask,' said Leonard; 'but there was a line in one letter I was shown that
made me believe that climate was not the whole cause.'

'No,' said Ethel; 'at least the force to resist it had been lost, as far as we can see.  It
was a grievous error of your brother's to think her a child who could forget.  She pined to
hear of you, and that one constant effort of faith and love was too much, and wasted away the
little tender body.  But oh, Leonard, how truly she can say that her captivity is over, and
that it has not hurt!'

'It has not hurt,' musingly repeated Leonard.  'No, she is beyond the reach of distracting
temptations and sorrows; it has only made her brighter to have suffered what it breaks one's
heart to think of.  It has not hurt.'

'Nothing from without does hurt!' said Ethel, 'unless one lets it.'

'Hurt what?' he asked.

'The soul,' returned Ethel.  'Mind and body may be hurt, and it is not possible to know one's
mind from one's soul while one is alive, but as long as the will and faith are right, to think
the soul can be hurt seems to me like doubting our Protector.'

'But if the will have been astray?'

'Then while we repent, we must not doubt our Redeemer.'

Dickie ran in at the moment, calling for Aunt Ethel.  She had dropped her muff.  Leonard picked
it up, and as she took it, he wrung her hand with an earnestness that showed his gratitude.
Decorations had been gradually making their way into the Minster, and had advanced from being
just tolerated to being absolutely delighted in; but Dr. Spencer, with his knack of doing everything,
was sorely missed as a head, and Mr. Wilmot insisted that the May forces should come down and
work the Minster, on the 23rd, leaving the Eve for the adornment of Cocksmoor, after the return
of its incumbent.  Mary, always highly efficient in that line, joined them; and Leonard's handiness
and dexterity in the arts relating to carpentry were as quietly useful as little Dickie's bright
readiness in always handing whatever was wanting.

The work was pretty well over, when Aubrey, who had just arrived with leave for a week, came
down, and made it desultory.  Dickie, whose imagination had been a good deal occupied by his
soldier uncle, wanted to study him, and Gertrude was never steady when Aubrey was near. Presently
it was discovered that the door to the tower stair was open. The ascent of the tower was a
feat performed two or three times in a lifetime at Stoneborough.  Harry had once beguiled Ethel
and Mary up, but Gertrude had never gone, and was crazy to go, as was likewise Dickie.  Moreover,
Aubrey and Gertrude insisted that it was only proper that Ethel should pay her respects to
her prototype the gurgoyle, they wanted to compare her with him, and ordered her up; in fact
their spirits were too high for them to be at ease within the church, and Ethel, maugre her
thirty years, partook of the exhilaration enough to delight in an extraordinary enterprise,
and as nothing remained but a little sweeping up, they left this to the superintendence of
Mary and Mr. Wilmot, and embarked upon the narrow crumbling steps of the spiral stair, that
led up within an unnatural thickening of one of the great piers that supported the tower, at
the intersection of nave and transepts.  After a long period of dust and darkness, and the
monotony of always going with the same leg foremost, came a narrow door, leading to the ringers'
region, with all their ropes hanging down.  Ethel was thankful when she had got her youngsters
past without an essay on them; she doubted if she should have succeeded, but for Leonard's
being an element of soberness.  Other little doors ensued, leading out to the various elevations
of roof, which were at all sorts of different heights, the chancel lower than the nave, and
one transept than the other; besides that the nave had both triforium and clerestory.  It was
a sort of labyrinth, and they wondered whether any one, except perhaps the plumber's foreman
knew his way among all the doors.  Then there was one leading inwards to the eight bells--from
whose fascinations Ethel thought Dickie never would be taken away--and still more charming,
to the clock, which clanged a tremendous three, as they were in the act of looking at it, causing
Leonard to make a great start, and then colour painfully.  It was hard to believe, as Daisy
said, that the old tower, that looked so short and squat below, could be so very high when
you came to go up it; but the glimpses of the country, through the little loop-hole windows,
were most inviting.  At last, Aubrey, who was foremost, pushed up the trap-door, and emerged;
but, as Dickie followed him, exclaimed, 'Here we are; but you ladies in crinolines will never
follow!  You'll stick fast for ever, and Leonard can't pass, so there you'll all have to stay.'

'Aunt Daisy will sail away like a balloon,' added Dickie, roguishly, looking back at her, and
holding on his cap.

But Gertrude vigorously compressed her hoop, and squeezed through, followed by Ethel and Leonard.
There was a considerable space, square, leaded and protected by the battlemented parapet, with
a deep moulding round, and a gutter resulting in the pipe smoked by Ethel's likeness, the gurgoyle.
Of course the first thing Dickie and Aubrey did was to look for the letters that commemorated
the ascent of H. M., E. M., M. M., in 1852; and it was equally needful that R. R. M., if nobody
else, should likewise leave a record on the leads.  There was an R. M. of 1820, that made it
impossible to gainsay him.  The view was not grand in itself, but there was a considerable
charm in looking down on the rooks in their leafless trees, cawing over their old nests, and
in seeing the roofs of the town; far away, too, the gray Welsh hills, and between, the country
lying like a map, with rivers traced in light instead of black.  Leonard stood still, his face
turned towards the greenest of the meadows, and the river where it dashed over the wheel of a mill.

'Have you seen it again?' asked Ethel, as she stood by him, and watched his eye.

'No.  I am rather glad to see it first from so far off,' he answered, 'I mean to walk over
some day.'

'Ethel,' called Gertrude, 'is this your gurgoyle?  His profile, as seen from above, isn't flattering.'

'O, Daisy, don't lean over so far.'

'Quite safe;' but at that instant a gust of wind caught her hat, she grasped at it, but only
saved it from whirling away, and made it fall short.  'There, Ethel, your image has put on
my hat; and henceforth will appear to the wondering city in a black hat and feather!'

'I'll get it,' exclaimed the ever ready Dickie; and in another moment he had mounted the parapet
and was reaching for it.  Whether it were Gertrude's shriek, or the natural recoil away from
the grasping hand, or that his hold on the side of the adjoining pinnacle was insecure, he
lost his balance, and with a sudden cry, vanished from their eyes.

The frightful consternation of that moment none of those four could ever bear to recall; the
next, they remembered that he could only fall as far as the roof, but it was Ethel and Leonard
alone who durst press to the parapet, and at the same moment a cry came up--

'Oh, come!  I'm holding on, but it cuts!  Oh, come!'

Ethel saw, some five-and-twenty feet below, the little boy upon the transept roof, a smooth
slope of lead, only broken by a skylight, a bit of churchwarden's architecture still remaining.
The child had gone crashing against the window, and now lay back clinging to its iron frame.
Behind him was the entire height within to the church floor, before him a rapid slope, ended
by a course of stone, wide enough indeed to walk on, but too narrow to check the impetus from
slipping down the inclination above.  Ethel's brain swam; she just perceived that both Aubrey
and Leonard had disappeared, and then had barely power to support Gertrude, who reeled against
her, giddy with horror.  'Oh look, look, Ethel,' she cried; 'I can't.  Where is he?'

'There!  Yes, hold on, Dickie, they are coming.  Look up--not down--hold on!'

A door opened, and out dashed Aubrey!  Alas! it was on the nave clerestory; he might as well
have been a hundred, miles off.  Another door, and Leonard appeared, and on the right level,
but with a giddy unguarded ridge on which to pass round the angle of the tower. She saw his
head pass safely round, but, even then, the horror was not over. Could he steady himself sufficiently
to reach the child, or might not Dickie lose hold too soon?  It was too close below for sight,
the moulding and gurgoyle impeded her agonized view, but she saw the child's look of joyful
relief, she heard the steady voice, 'Wait, don't let go yet.  There,' and after a few more
sounds, came up a shout, 'all right!' Infinitely relieved, she had to give her whole attention
to poor Gertrude, who, overset by the accident, giddy with the attempt to look over, horrified
by the danger, confused and distressed by the hair that came wildly flapping about her head
and face, and by the puffs of wind at her hoop, had sunk down in the centre of the little leaden
square, clinging with all her might to the staff of the weathercock, and feeling as if the
whole tower were rocking with her, absolutely seeing the battlements dance.  How was she ever
to be safely got down the rickety ladder leading to the crumbling stone stair?  Ethel knelt
by her, twisted up the fluttering hair, bade her shut her eyes and compose her thoughts, and
then called over the battlements to Aubrey, who, confused by the shock, continued to emerge
at wrong doors and lose himself on the roofs, and was like one in a bad dream, nearly as much
dizzied as his sister, to whose help he came the more readily, as the way up was the only one
plain before him.

The detention would have been more dreadful to Ethel had she known all that was passing below,
and that when the little boy, at Leonard's sign, lowered himself towards the out-reaching arms
of the young man, who was steadying himself against the wall of the tower, it was with a look
of great pain, and leaving a trail of blood behind him.  When, at length, he stood at the angle,
Leonard calmly said, 'Now go before me, round that corner, in at the door.  Hold by the wall,
I'll hold your shoulder.'  The boy implicitly obeyed, the notion of giddiness never seemed
to occur to him, and both safely came to the little door, on the threshold of which Leonard
sat down, and lifting him on his knee, asked where he was hurt?  'My leg,' said Dickie, 'the
glass was running in all the time, and I could not move; but it does not hurt so much now.'

Perhaps not; but a large piece of glass had broken into the slender little calf, and Leonard
steadied himself to withdraw it, as, happily, the fragment was large enough to give a hold
for his hand. The sensible little fellow, without a word, held up the limb across Leonard's
knee, and threw an arm round his neck, to hold himself still, just saying, 'Thank you,' when
it was over.

'Did it hurt much, Dickie?'

'Not very much,' he answered; 'but how it bleeds!  Where's Aunt Ethel?'

'On the tower.  She will come in a moment,' said Leonard, startled by the exceeding flow of
blood, and binding the gash round with his handkerchief.  'Now, I'll carry you down.'

The boy did not speak all the weary winding way down the dark stairs; but Leonard heard gasps
of oppression, and felt the head lean on his shoulder; moreover, a touch convinced him that
the handkerchief was soaking, nay dripping, and when he issued at length into the free air
of the church, the face was deadly white.  No one was near, and Leonard laid him on a bench.
He was still conscious, and looked up with languid eyes. 'Mayn't I go home?' he said, faintly;
'Aunt Ethel!'

'Let me try to stop this bleeding first,' said Leonard.  'My dear little man, if you will only
be quiet, I think I can.'

Leonard took the handkerchief from his throat, and wound it to its tightest just above the
hurt, Dickie remonstrating for a moment with, 'That's not the place.  It is too tight.'

'It will cut off the blood from coming,' said Leonard; and in the same understanding way, the
child submitted, feebly asking, 'Shall I bleed to death?  Mamma will be so sorry!'

'I trust--I hope not,' said Leonard; he durst utter no encouragement, for the life-blood continued
to pour forth unchecked, and the next murmur was, 'I'm so sick.  I can't say my prayers.  Papa!
Mamma!' Already, however, Leonard had torn down a holly bough, and twisted off (he would have
given worlds for a knife) a short stout stick, which he thrust into one of the folds of the
ligature, and pulled it much tighter, so that his answer was, 'Thank God, Dickie, that will
do! the bleeding has stopped.  You must not mind if it hurts for a little while.'

An ejaculation of 'Poor little dear,' here made him aware of the presence of the sexton's wife;
but in reply to her offer to carry him in to Mrs. Cheviot's, Dickie faintly answered, 'Please
let me go home;' and Leonard, 'Yes, I will take him home.  Tell Miss May it is a cut from the
glass, I am taking him to have it dressed, and will bring him home.  Now, my dear little patient
fellow, can you put your arms round my neck?'

Sensible, according to both meanings of the word, Dickie clasped his friend's neck, and laid
his head on his shoulder, not speaking again till he found Leonard was not turning towards
the High Street, when he said, 'That is not the way home.'

'No, Dickie, but we must get your leg bound up directly, and the hospital is the only place
where we can be sure of finding any one to do it.  I will take you home directly afterwards.'

'Thank you,' said the courteous little gentleman; and in a few minutes more Leonard had rung
the bell, and begged the house surgeon would come at once to Dr. May's grandson.  A few drops
of stimulant much revived Dickie, and he showed perfect trust and composure, only holding Leonard's
hands, and now and then begging to know what they were doing, while he was turned over on his
face for the dressing of the wound, bearing all without a sound, except an occasional sobbing
gasp, accompanied by a squeeze of Leonard's finger.  Just as this business had been completed,
the surgeon exclaimed, 'There's Dr. May's step,' and Dickie at once sat up, as his grandfather
hurried in, nearly as pale as the boy himself.  'O, grandpapa, never mind, it is almost well
now; and has Aunt Daisy got her hat?'

'What is it, my dear? what have you been doing?' said the Doctor, looking in amazement from
the boy to Leonard, who was covered with blood.  'They told me you had fallen off the Minster
tower!'

'Yes I did,' said Dickie; 'I reached after Aunt Daisy's hat, but I fell on the roof, and I
was sliding, sliding down to the wall, but there was a window, and the glass broke and cut
me, but I got my feet against the bottom of it, and held on by the iron bar, till Leonard came
and took me down;' and he lay back on the pillow, quiet and exhausted, but bright-eyed and
attentive as ever, listening to Leonard's equally brief version of the adventure.

'Didn't he save my life, grandpapa?' said the boy, at the close.

'Twice over, you may say,' added the surgeon, and his words as to the nature of the injury
manifested that all had depended on the immediate stoppage of the haemorrhage.  With so young
a child, delay from indecision or want of resource would probably have been fatal.

'There would have been no doing anything, if this little man had not been so good and sensible,'
said Leonard, leaning over him.

'And I did not cry.  You will tell papa I did not cry,' said Dickie, eagerly, but only half
gratified by such girlish treatment as that agitated kiss of his grandfather, after being a
little bit of a hero; but then Dickie's wondering eyes really beheld such another kiss bestowed
over his head upon Leonard, and quite thought there were tears on grandpapa's cheeks.  Perhaps
old gentlemen could do what was childish in little boys.

Dickie was to be transported home.  He wished to be carried by Leonard, but the brougham was
at the door, and he had to content himself with being laid on the seat, with his friend to
watch over him, the Doctor pointing out that Leonard was a savage spectacle for the eyes of
Stoneborough, and hurrying home by the short cut.  Ethel met him in extreme alarm.  Gertrude's
half-restored senses had been totally scattered by the sight of the crimson traces on the spot
of Leonard's operations, and she had been left to Mary's care; while Ethel and Aubrey had hastened
home, and not finding any one there, the latter had dashed off to Bankside, whilst Ethel waited,
arranging the little fellow's bed, and trying to trust to Leonard's message, and not let her
mind go back to that fearful day of like waiting, sixteen years ago, nor on to what she might
have to write to Norman and Meta of the charge they had sent to her.  Her father's cheerful
face at first was a pang, and then came the rebound of gladness at the words.  'He is coming.
No fear for him, gallant little man--thanks for God's mercy, and to that noble fellow, Leonard.'

At the same moment Aubrey burst in--'No one at Wright's--won't be in no one knows how long!
What is to become of us?'  And he sank down on a chair.

'Ay, what would become of any of us, if no one had a better pate than yours, sir?' said Dr.
May.  'You have one single perfection, and you had better make the most of it--that of knowing
how to choose your friends.  There's the carriage.'

After a moment's delay, the cushion was lifted out with the little wounded cavalier, still
like a picture; for, true to his humming-bird nature, a few scarcely-conscious movements of
his hands had done away with looks of disarray--the rich glossy curls were scarcely disordered,
and no stains of blood had adhered to the upper part of his small person, whereas Leonard was
a ghastly spectacle from head to foot.

'So, Master Dicky-bird,' said Dr. May, as they rested him a moment on the hall-table, 'give
me that claw of yours.  Yes, you'll do very well, only you must go to bed now; and, mind, whatever
you did when you were in Fairy-land, we don't fly here in Stoneborough--and it does not answer.'

'I am not to go to bed for being naughty, am I?' said Dickie, his brave white lip for the first
time quivering; 'indeed, I did not know it was wrong.'

The poor little man's spirits were so exhausted, that the reassurance on this head absolutely
brought the much-dreaded tears into his eyes; and he could only be carried up gently to his
bed, and left to be undressed by his aunt, so great an aggravation to the troubles of this
small fragment of independence, that it had almost overset his courtesy and self-command. 
There was no contenting him till he had had all traces of the disaster washed from face and
hands, and the other foot; and then, over his tea, though his little clear chirrup was weak,
he must needs give a lucid description of Leonard's bandaging, in the midst of which came a
knock at the door, and a gasping voice--'I'll be quite quiet--indeed I will!  Only just let
me come in and kiss him, and see that he is safe.'

'O, Auntie Daisy, have you got your hat?'

Wan, tear-stained, dishevelled, Gertrude bit her lip to save an outburst, gave the stipulated
kiss, and retreated to Mary, who stood in the doorway like a dragon.

'Auntie Daisy has been crying,' said Dickie, turning his eyes back to Ethel.  'Please tell
her I shall be well very soon, and then I'll go up again and try to get her hat, if I may have
a hook and line--I'll tell you how.'

'My dear Dickie, you had better lie down, and settle it as you go to sleep,' said Ethel, her
flesh creeping at the notion of his going up again.

'But if I go to sleep now, I shall not know when to say my prayers.'

'Had you not better do so now, Dickie?'

