"Under ordinary circumstances the change seems impossible," he said. "Especially seeing that
the juggling could not have been done without both the cases--but I had forgotten how easily
the cases were changed. I have it! What is the date of that letter?"

Ruth slowly unfolded a document she had taken from her purse.

"The day following what you call your great adventure," she said. "Henson or somebody took
the real case--my case--back to Lockhart's and changed it in my name. I had previously been
admiring this selfsame bracelet, and they had tried to sell it to me. My dear boy, don't you
see this is all part of the plot to plunge you deeper and deeper into trouble, to force us
all to speak to save you? There are at least fifteen assistants at Lockhart's. Of course the
ultimate sale of the cigar-case to this American could be proved, seeing that the case had
got back into stock again, and at the same time the incident of the change quite forgotten.
And when you go and ask questions at Lockhart's--as you were pretty sure to do, as Henson knew--you
are told of the sale only to the American. Depend upon it, that American was Henson himself
or somebody in his pay. David, that man is too cunning, too complex. And some of these days
it is going to prove his fall."

David nodded thoughtfully. And yet, without something very clever and intricate in the way
of a scheme, Henson could not have placed him in his present fix.

"There is only one thing to be done," he said. "You and I must go down to Lockhart's and make
a few inquiries. With that diamond bracelet and letter in your possession you should have no
difficulty in refreshing their memories. Will you have some tea?"

"I am too excited," Ruth laughed. "I couldn't eat or drink anything just at present. David,
what a lovely house you have."

"I'm glad to hear that you are going to like it," David said, drily.

Lockhart's received their customers in the usual courtly style. They were sorry they had no
recollection of the transaction to which madam referred. The sale of the bracelet was clear,
because that was duly and properly recorded on the books, and as indeed was the sale of the
gun-metal cigar-case to an American gentleman at the Metropole. If madam said that she had
purchased the cigar-case, why--still the polite assistant was most courteously incredulous.

The production of the letter made a difference. There was a passing of confidences from one
plate-glass counter to another, and presently another assistant came forward. He profoundly
regretted that there had been a mistake, but he remembered the incident perfectly. It was the
day before he had departed on his usual monthly visit to the firm's Paris branch. Madam had
certainly purchased the cigar-case; but before the sale could be posted in the stock ledger
madam had sent a gentleman to change the case for the diamond bracelet previously admired.
The speaker had attended to both the sale and the exchange; in fact, his cab was waiting for
him during the latter incident.

"I trust there is nothing wrong?" he asked, anxiously.

"Not in the least," Ruth hastened to reply. "The whole matter is a kind of comedy that I wanted
to solve. It is a family joke, you understand. And who made the exchange?"

"Mr. Gates, madam. A tall gentleman, dressed in--"

"That is quite sufficient, thank you," said Ruth. "I am sorry to trouble you over so silly
a matter."

The assistant assured madam with an air of painful reproach that nothing was counted a trouble
in that establishment. He bowed his visitors out and informed them that it was a lovely afternoon,
a self-evident axiom that the most disputatious could not well deny.

