After a year or two of this soil of excitement the king became blind; and painful was the exhibition
of the led horse of the good old man, as he took his accustomed ride. In a few more years a
still heavier calamity fell upon him--and from that time Windsor Castle became, comparatively,
a mournful place. The terrace was shut up--the ancient pathway through the park, and under
the castle walls, was diverted--and a somewhat Asiatic state and stillness seemed to usurp
the reign of the old free and familiar intercourse of the sovereign with the people.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES OF A READER.

       *       *       *       *       *

NAVARINO.

Towards the close of the battle of Navarino, one of our midshipmen, a promising youth of about
fourteen, was struck by a cannon-shot, which carried off both his legs, and his right-hand,
with which the poor fellow had been grasping his cutlass at that moment. He lay in the gun-room,
as nothing could be done for him; and I was informed by one of the men, that he repeatedly
named his mother in a piteous tone, but soon after rallied a little, and began to inquire eagerly
how the action was going on, and if any more Turkish ships had struck. He lingered in great
agony for about twenty minutes.--From a spirited description in No. 2, United Service Journal,
intended for abridgment probably in our next.

       *       *       *       *       *

FRENCH THEATRES.

The revenue of the thirteen theatres of Paris during last year, amounted to the great sum of
£233,561 sterling; that of the two establishments for the performance of the regular drama
amounting only to £26,600, or not more than a tithe of the whole.

       *       *       *       *       *

ROUSSEAU.

A mask taken upon the face of Jean Jacques Rousseau after death, recently fetched, at the sale
of the late M. Houdon, 500 francs. The purchaser has since refused an offer of 15,000 francs
for it.

       *       *       *       *       *

BRUSSELS

May be said to be next to Paris, the largest English colony on the continent; and that there
are not fewer at this moment than six thousand English residents there. This is not at all
surprising. Cheapness of living, of education, of amusements--a mild government and agreeable
society--the abundance of all the necessaries of life, of fine fruits and vegetables in particular,
are temptations; though we pity those who have not the virtue to resist them.

       *       *       *       *       *

WRITING FOR THE STAGE.

Is it not extraordinary that the manager of a theatre is the only purveyor who does not know
the value of his wares? A bookseller will, if he approves of a work, pay a certain sum for
the copyright, and risk an additional sum in the publication, at the hazard of losing by the
fiat of a very capricious public, the reading public. But the writer of a drama must make up
his mind to stake the labour of months on the fortune of a single night. New Monthly Mag.

       *       *       *       *       *

EXPEDITIONS OF DISCOVERY.

Narratives of these important and interesting enterprizes multiply so fast, that we are happy
to announce, as preparing for publication, a series of abstracts of the most recent Voyages
and Overland Journeys. They will be printed in an economical volume adapted to all classes
of purchasers, and will contain all the new facts in nautical and geographical science; details
of the Natural History of the respective countries, the manners and customs of the natives,
&c.--Fernando Po, Timbuctoo, Clapperton's African adventures, and Capt. Dillon's discoveries
relative to the fate of La Perouse, will, of course, form prominent portions of this work,
the popular title of which will be, "The Cabinet of Recent Voyages and Travels."

       *       *       *       *       *

BEEF-EATING.

A facetious gourmand used to say, that he had eaten so much beef for the last six months, that
he was ashamed to look a bullock in the face.--Twelve Years' Military Adventures.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SABBATH.

If we believe in the divine origin of the commandment, the Sabbath is instituted for the express
purposes of religion. The time set apart is the "Sabbath of the Lord;" a day on which we are
not to work our own works, or think our own thoughts. The precept is positive, and the purpose
clear. He who has to accomplish his own salvation, must not carry to tennis courts and skittle
grounds the train of reflections which ought necessarily to be excited by a serious discourse
of religion. The religious part of the Sunday's exercise is not to be considered as a bitter
medicine, the taste of which is as soon as possible to be removed by a bit of sugar. On the
contrary, our demeanour through the rest of the day ought to be, not sullen certainly, or morose,
but serious and tending to instruction. Give to the world one half of the Sunday, and you will
find that religion has no strong hold of the other. Pass the morning at church, and the evening,
according to your taste or rank, in the cricket-field, or at the Opera, and you will soon find
thoughts of the evening hazards and bets intrude themselves on the sermon, and that recollections
of the popular melodies interfere with the psalms. Religion is thus treated like Lear, to whom
his ungrateful daughters first denied one half of his stipulated attendance, and then made
it a question whether they should grant him any share of what remained.--Quart. Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

POCKET BOOKS.

Among the works under this denomination for 1829, we notice two, which from their almost indispensible
utility, deserve the name of Hardy Annuals. The first is Adcock's Engineers' Pocket Book, and
contains tables of British weights and measures, multiplication and division obtained by inspection,
tables of squares and cubes and square and cube roots, and mensuration; tables of the areas
and circumferences of circles, &c.; the mechanical powers, animal strength, mills and steam-engines,
treatises on hydraulics, pneumatics, heat, &c., and on the strength and heat of materials.
To these are superadded the usual contents of a pocket book, so as to render the present volume
a desirable vade-mecum for the operative, the manufacturer, and engineer.

One of Mr. Adcock's most popular illustrations will not be uninteresting to the reader:--

"Force of Gunpowder."--"If we calculate the quantity of motion produced by gunpowder, we shall
find that this agent, though extremely convenient, is far more expensive than human labour;
but the advantage of gunpowder consists in the great rarity of the active substance; a spring
or a bow can only act with a moderate velocity on account of its own weight; the air of the
atmosphere, however compressed, could not flow into a vacuum with a velocity so great as 1,500
feet in a second; hydrogen gas might move more rapidly; but the elastic substance produced
by gunpowder is capable of propelling a very heavy cannon ball with a much greater velocity."

Of an opposite character, but equally useful, and more attractive for the general reader, is
the second,--The Spoilsman's Pocket Book, by a brother of the author of the preceding. Here
are the usual pocket-book contents, and the laws, &c. of British sports and pastimes--as shooting,
angling, hunting, coursing, racing, cricket, and skating: from the latter we subjoin a hint
for the benefit of the Serpentine Mercuries; which proves the adage ex liguo non fit Mercurius:--

"Care should be taken that the muscular movements of the whole body correspond with the movements
of the skates, and that it be regulated so as to be almost imperceptible to the spectators;
for nothing so much diminishes the grace and elegance of skating as sudden jerks and exertions.
The attitude of drawing the bow and arrow, whilst the skater is forming a large circle on the
outside, is very beautiful, and some persons, in skating, excel in manual exercises and military
salutes."

The whole series of pocket books by the Messrs. Adcocks, extend, we believe, to eight, adapted
for all descriptions of industriels, as well as for the less occupied, who are not "the architects
of their own fortunes."

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Parr was the last learned schoolmaster who was professedly an amateur of the rod; and in
that profession there was more of humour and affectation than of reality, for with all his
habitual affectation and his occasional brutality, Parr was a good-natured, generous, warm-hearted
man; there was a coarse husk and a hard shell, like the cocoa-nut, but the core was filled
with the milk of human kindness.--Quarterly Review.

       *       *       *       *       *

CRANIOLOGY.

On a celebrated craniologist visiting the studio of a celebrated sculptor in London, his attention
was drawn to a bust with a remarkable depth of skull from the forehead to the occiput. "What
a noble head," he exclaimed, "is that! full seven inches! What superior powers of mind must
he be endowed with, who possesses such a head as is here represented!" "Why, yes," says the
blunt artist, "he certainly was a very extraordinary man--that is the bust of my early friend
and first patron, John Horne Tooke." "Ay," answers the craniologist, "you see there is something
after all in our science, notwithstanding the scoffs of many of your countrymen." "Certainly,"
says the sculptor; "but here is another bust, with a greater depth and a still more capacious
forehead." "Bless me!" exclaims the craniologist, taking out his rule, "eight inches! who can
this be? this is indeed a head--in this there can be no mistake; what depth of intellect, what
profundity of thought, must reside in that skull! this I am sure must belong to some extraordinary
and well-known character." "Why, yes," says the sculptor, "he is pretty well known--it is the
head of Lord Pomfret."

       *       *       *       *       *

PRYNNE.

       *       *       *       *       *

GERMAN STUDENTS.

The German students are a set of young men who certainly pursue their studies with zeal, but
who nevertheless are more brutal in conduct, more insolent in manner, more slovenly and ruffian-like
in appearance, and more offensive from the fumes of tobacco and beer, onions and sourcrout,
in which they are enveloped, than are to be met with in any other part of Europe. In a small
town of a small state a German university is a horrible nuisance; and how the elegant court
of Weimar, in particular, can tolerate the existence of one within an hour's ride of its palace,
where we have seen ragamuffins fighting with broad-swords in the market-place, moves "our special
wonder." To the university of Bonn is attached a rich collection of subjects in natural history,
and a botanical garden; and such is its success, from the celebrity of its professors, among
whom is numbered the illustrious William Schlegel, that, Dr. Granville states, "there are at
this time about one thousand and twenty students who, for twenty pounds in university and professors'
fees, and forty more for living, get a first-rate education." The climate and the situation
on the banks of the Rhine are most inviting; and a beautiful avenue of chestnut trees, nearly
a mile in length, joins the castle of Popplesdorf, which contains the cabinets of natural history,
with the university.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREAT SEAL OF ENGLAND.

The Great Seal itself, when not in the king's own custody, was entrusted to the "Chancellor,"
whose salary, as fixed by Henry I., amounted to five shillings per diem, besides a "livery"
of provisions. And the allowance of one pint and a half, or perhaps a quart of claret, one
"gross wax-light," and forty candle-ends, to enable the Chancellor to carry on his housekeeping,
may be considered as a curious exemplification of primitive temperance and economy.--Quarterly Rev.

       *       *       *       *       *

The good people of Weimar appear to be most enthusiastic lovers of music, affording strong
proofs of melomania. Every householder of any importance subscribes an annual sum to a band
of musicians, who go round in long cloaks to each house, singing fugas and canons, unaccompanied
by instruments, in "the most beautiful and correct style imaginable,"--something, we suppose,
in the style of the Tyrolese minstrels.--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRAVELLING.

A friend of ours recently went to Russia by steam, and actually breakfasted in Moscow the thirteenth
morning after he left London. There is now, he says, a road as good as that to Brighton over
three parts of the distance between St. Petersburg and Moscow--what a change from 1812!--Ibid.

       *       *       *       *       *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MURDER HOLE.

An Ancient Legend.

                  "Ah, frantic Fear!
    I see, I see thee near;
    I know thy hurried step, thy haggard eye!
    Like thee I start, like thee disorder'd fly!

COLLINS.

In a remote district of country belonging to Lord Cassillis, between Ayrshire and Galloway,
about three hundred years ago, a moor of apparently boundless extent stretched several miles
along the road, and wearied the eye of the traveller by the sameness and desolation of its
appearance; not a tree varied the prospect--not a shrub enlivened the eye by its freshness--nor
a native flower bloomed to adorn this ungenial soil. One "lonesome desert" reached the horizon
on every side, with nothing to mark that any mortal had ever visited the scene before, except
a few rude huts that were scattered near its centre; and a road, or rather pathway, for those
whom business or necessity obliged to pass in that direction. At length, deserted as this wild
region had always been, it became still more gloomy. Strange rumours arose, that the path of
unwary travellers had been beset on this "blasted heath," and that treachery and murder had
intercepted the solitary stranger as he traversed its dreary extent. When several persons,
who were known to have passed that way, mysteriously disappeared, the inquiries of their relatives
led to a strict and anxious investigation; but though the officers of justice were sent to
scour the country, and examine the inhabitants, not a trace could be obtained of the persons
in question, nor of any place of concealment which could be a refuge for the lawless or desperate
to horde in. Yet, as inquiry became stricter, and the disappearance of individuals more frequent,
the simple inhabitants of the neighbouring hamlet were agitated by the most fearful apprehensions.
Some declared that the deathlike stillness of the night was often interrupted by sudden and
preternatural cries of more than mortal anguish, which seemed to arise in the distance; and
a shepherd one evening, who had lost his way on the moor, declared he had approached three
mysterious figures, who seemed struggling against each other with supernatural energy, till
at length one of them, with a frightful scream, suddenly sunk into the earth.

