 To the offer of refreshment,
the stranger replied, 'Baron, I may not eat, water shall not moisten my lips, until the avenger
shall have passed by the threshold.' The baron commanded the lamps to be trimmed and fresh
torches to be lighted, and sending his whole household to rest, remained sealed in the hall
along with the stranger, his suppliant. At midnight, the gates of the castle were shaken as
by a whirlwind, and a voice, as if of a herald, was heard to demand his lawful prisoner, Dannischemend,
the son of Hali. The warder then heard a lower window of the hall thrown open, and could distinguish
his master's voice addressing the person who had thus summoned the castle. But the night was
so dark that he might not see the speakers, and the language which they used was either entirely
foreign, or so largely interspersed with strange words, that he could not understand a syllable
which they said. Scarce five minutes had elapsed, when he who was without, again elevated his
voice as before, and said in German, 'For a year and a day, then, I forbear my forfeiture;--but
coming for it when that time shall elapse, I come for my right, and will no longer be withstood.'

"From that period Dannischemend, the Persian, was a constant guest at the castle of Arnheim,
and, indeed, never for any purpose crossed the drawbridge. His amusements, or studies, seemed
centred in the library of the castle, and in the laboratory, where the baron sometimes toiled
in conjunction with him for many hours together. The inhabitants of the castle could find no
fault in the Magus, or Persian, excepting his apparently dispensing with the ordinances of
religion, since he neither went to mass nor confession, nor attended upon other religious ceremonies.
It was observed that Dannischemend was rigid in paying his devotions, by prostrating himself
in the first rays of the rising sun, and that he constructed a silver lamp of the most beautiful
proportions, which he placed on a pedestal representing a truncated column of marble, having
its base sculptured with hieroglyphical imagery. With what essences he fed this flame was unknown
to all, unless perhaps to the baron; but the flame was more steady, pure, and lustrous, than
any which was ever seen, excepting the sun of heaven itself, and it was generally believed
that Dannischemend made it an object of worship in the absence of that blessed luminary. Nothing
else was observed of him, unless that his morals seemed severe, his gravity extreme, his general
mode of life very temperate, and his fasts and vigils of frequent recurrence. Except on particular
occasions, he spoke to no one of the castle but the baron.

"Winter was succeeded by spring, summer brought her flowers, and autumn her fruits, which ripened
and were fading, when a foot-page, who sometimes attended them in the laboratory to render
manual assistance when required, heard the Persian say to the Baron of Arnheim, 'You will do
well, my son, to mark my words; for my lessons to you are drawing to an end, and there is no
power on earth which can longer postpone my fate.' 'Alas, my master!' said the baron, 'and
must I then lose the benefit of your direction, just when your guiding hand becomes necessary
to place me on the very pinnacle of the temple of wisdom?' 'Be not discouraged, my son,' answered
the sage; 'I will bequeath the task of perfecting you in your studies to my daughter, who will
come hither on purpose. But remember, if you value the permanence of your family, look not
upon her as aught else than a helpmate in your studies; for if you forget the instructress
in the beauty of the maiden, you will be buried with your sword and your shield, as the last
male of your house; and farther evil, believe me, will arise; for such alliances never come
to a happy issue, of which my own is an example.--But, hush, we are observed.' The household
of the castle of Arnheim having but few things to interest them, were the more eager observers
of those which came under their notice; and when the termination of the period when the Persian
was to receive shelter in the castle began to approach, some of the inmates, under various
pretexts, but which resolved into every terror, absconded,--while others held themselves in
expectation of some striking and terrible catastrophe. None such, however, took place; and,
on the expected anniversary, long ere the witching hour of midnight, Dannischemend terminated
his visit in the castle of Arnheim, by riding away from the gate in the guise of an ordinary
traveller.

"The baron had meantime taken leave of his tutor with many marks of regret, and some which
amounted even to sorrow. The sage Persian comforted him by a long whisper, of which the last
part only was heard, 'By the first beam of sunshine she will be with you. Be kind to her, but
not over kind.' He then departed, and was never again seen or heard of in the vicinity of Arnheim.
The baron was observed during all the day after the departure of the stranger to be particularly
melancholy. At dawn of the ensuing morning, Sir Herman summoned his page; and having performed
his toilet, he waited till the sun had just appeared above the horizon, and, taking from the
table the key of the laboratory, which the page believed must have lain there all night, he
walked thither, followed by his attendant. At the door the baron made a pause, and seemed at
one time to doubt whether he should not send away the page, at another to hesitate whether
he should open the door, as one might do who expected some strange sight within. He pulled
up resolution, however, turned the key, threw the door open, and entered. The page followed
close behind his master, and was astonished to the point of extreme terror at what he beheld,
although the sight, however extraordinary, had in it nothing save what was agreeable and lovely.
The silver lamp was extinguished, or removed from its pedestal, where stood in place of it
a most beautiful female figure in the Persian costume, in which the colour of pink predominated.
But she wore no turban, or head-dress of any kind, saving a blue riband drawn through her auburn
hair and secured by a gold clasp, the outer side of which was ornamented by a superb opal,
which, amid the changing lights peculiar to that gem, displayed a slight tinge of red, like
a spark of fire. The figure of this young person was rather under the middle size, but perfectly
well formed; the eastern dress, with the wide trousers gathered round the ankles, made visible
the smallest and most beautiful feet which had ever been seen, while hands and arms of the
most perfect symmetry were partly seen from under the folds of the robe. The little lady's
countenance was of a lively and expressive character, in which spirit and wit seemed to predominate;
and the quick, dark eye, with its beautifully formed eyebrow, seemed to presage the arch remark,
to which the rosy and half-smiling lip appeared ready to give utterance. The pedestal on which
she stood, or rather was perched, would have appeared unsafe had any figure heavier than her
own been placed there. But, however she had been transported thither, she seemed to rest on
it as lightly and safely as a linnet, when it has dropped from the sky on the tendril of a
rose-bud. The first beam of the rising sun, falling through a window directly opposite to the
pedestal, increased the effect of this beautiful figure, which remained as motionless as if
it had been carved in marble. She only expressed her sense of the Baron of Arnheim's presence
by something of a quicker respiration, and a deep blush, accompanied by a slight smile.

"The Baron of Arnheim, for an instant, stood without breath or motion. At once, however, he
seemed to recollect that it was his duty to welcome the fair stranger to his castle, and to
relieve her from her precarious situation. He stepped forward accordingly with the words of
welcome on his tongue, and was extending his arms to lift her from the pedestal, which was
nearly six feet high; but the light and active stranger merely accepted the support of his
hand, and descended on the floor as light and as safe as if she had been formed of gossamer.
It was, indeed, only by the momentary pressure of her little hand, that the Baron of Arnheim
was made sensible that he had to do with a being of flesh and blood. 'I am come as I have been
commanded,' she said, looking around her: 'you must expect a strict and diligent mistress,
and I hope for the credit of an attentive pupil.' After the arrival of this singular and interesting
being in the castle of Arnheim, various alterations took place within the interior of the household.
A lady of high rank and small fortune, the respectable widow of a count of the empire, who
was the baron's blood relation, received and accepted an invitation to preside over her kinsman's
domestic affairs, and remove, by her countenance, any suspicions which might arise from the
presence of Hermione, as the beautiful Persian was generally called. The countess Waldstetten
carried her complaisance so far, as to be present on almost all occasions, whether in the laboratory
or library, when the Baron of Arnheim received lessons from, or pursued studies with, the young
and lovely tutor, who had been thus strangely substituted for the aged Magus. If this lady's
report was to be trusted, their pursuits were of a most extraordinary nature, and the results
which she sometimes witnessed were such as to create fear as well as surprise. But she accordingly
vindicated them from practising unlawful arts, or overstepping the boundaries of natural science.
A better judge of such matters, the Bishop of Bamberg himself, made a visit to Arnheim, on
purpose to witness the wisdom of which so much was reported through the whole Rhine country.
He conversed with Hermione, and found her deeply impressed with the truths of religion, and
so perfectly acquainted with its doctrines, that he compared her to a doctor of theology in
the dress of an Eastern dancing-girl. When asked regarding her knowledge of languages and science,
he answered that he had been attracted to Arnheim by the most extravagant reports on these
points, but that he must return confessing 'the half thereof had not been told unto him.'

"Meantime a marked alteration began to take place in the interviews between the lovely tutor
and her pupil. These were conducted with the same caution as before, and never, so far as could
be observed, took place without the presence of the countess of Waldstetten, or some other
third person of respectability. But the scenes of these meetings were no longer the scholar's
library, or the chemist's laboratory;--the gardens, the groves, were resorted to for amusement,
and parties of hunting and fishing, with evenings spent in the dance, seemed to announce that
the studies of wisdom were for a time abandoned for the pursuits of pleasure. It was not difficult
to guess the meaning of this; the Baron of Arnheim and his fair guest, speaking a language
different from all others, could enjoy their private conversation, even amid all the tumult
of gaiety around them; and no one was surprised to hear it formally announced, after a few
weeks of gaiety, that the fair Persian was to be wedded to the Baron of Arnheim.

"The manners of this fascinating young person were so pleasing, her conversation so animated,
her wit so keen, yet so well tempered with good nature and modesty, that, notwithstanding her
unknown origin, her high fortune attracted less envy than might have been expected in a case
so singular. Above all, her generosity amazed and won the hearts of all the young persons who
approached her. These good qualities, her liberality above all, together with a simplicity
of thought and character, which formed a beautiful contrast to the depth of acquired knowledge
which she was well-known to possess,--these, and her total want of ostentation, made her superiority
be pardoned among her companions. Still there was notice taken of some peculiarities, exaggerated
perhaps by envy, which seemed to draw a mystical distinction between the beautiful Hermione
and the mere mortals with whom she lived and conversed. In the merry dance she was so unrivalled
in lightness and agility, that her performance seemed that of an aerial being. She could, without
suffering from her exertion, continue the pleasure till she had tired out the most active revellers;
and even the young Duke of Hochspringen, who was reckoned the most indefatigable at that exercise
in Germany, having been her partner for half an hour, was compelled to break off the dance
and throw himself, totally exhausted, on a couch, exclaiming he had been dancing not with a
woman, but with an ignis fatuus. Other whispers averred, that while she played with her young
companions in the labyrinth and mazes of the castle gardens at hide-and-seek, or similar games
of activity, she became animated with the same supernatural alertness which was supposed to
inspire her in the dance. She appeared amongst her companions, and vanished from them with
a degree of rapidity which was inconceivable; and hedges, treillage, or such like obstructions,
were surmounted by her in a manner which the most vigilant eye could not detect; for, after
being observed on the other side of the barrier at one instant, in another she was beheld close
beside the spectator. In such moments, when her eyes sparkled, her cheeks reddened, and her
whole frame became animated, it was pretended that the opal clasp amid her tresses, the ornament
which she never laid aside, shot forth the little spark, or tongue of flame, which it always
displayed, with an increased vivacity. In the same manner, if in the twilight hall the conversation
of Hermione became unusually animated, it was believed that the jewel became brilliant, and
even displayed a twinkling and flashing gleam which seemed to be emitted by the gem itself,
and not produced in the usual manner, by the reflection of some external light. Her maidens
were also heard to surmise, that when their mistress was agitated by any hasty or brief resentment
(the only weakness of temper which she was ever observed to display,) they could observe dark-red
sparks flash from the mystic brooch, as if it sympathized with the wearer's emotions. The women
who attended on her toilette farther reported, that this gem was never removed but for a few
minutes, when the baroness' hair was combed out; that she was unusually pensive and silent
during the time it was laid aside, and particularly apprehensive when any liquid was brought
near it. Even in the use of holy water at the door of the church, she was observed to omit
the sign of the cross on the forehead, for fear, it was supposed, of the water touching the
valued jewel.

"These singular reports did not prevent the marriage of the Baron of Arnheim from proceeding
as had been arranged. In the course of twelve months the lovely baroness presented her husband
with a daughter, which was to be christened Sibylla, after the count's mother. As the health
of the child was excellent, the ceremony was postponed till the recovery of the mother from
her confinement; many were invited to be present on the occasion, and the castle was thronged
with company. It happened that amongst the guests was an old lady, notorious for playing in
private society the part of a malicious fairy in a minstrel's tale. This was the Baroness of
Steinfeldt, famous in the neighbourhood for her insatiable curiosity and overweening pride.
She had not been many days in the castle, ere, by the aid of a female attendant, who acted
as an intelligencer, she had made herself mistress of all that was heard, said, or suspected,
concerning the peculiarities of the Baroness Hermione. It was on the morning of the day appointed
for the christening, while the whole company were assembled in the hall, and waiting till the
baroness should appear, to pass with them to the chapel, that there arose between the censorious
and haughty dame whom we have just mentioned, and the Countess Waldstettin, a violent discussion
concerning some point of disputed precedence. It was referred to the Baron von Arnheim, who
decided in favour of the countess. Madame de Steinfeldt instantly ordered her palfrey to be
prepared, and her attendants to mount. 'I leave this place,' said she, 'which a good Christian
ought never to have entered; I leave a house of which the master is a sorcerer, the mistress
a demon who dares not cross her brow with holy water, and their trencher companion one who
for a wretched pittance is willing to act as match-maker between a wizard and an incarnate
fiend!' She then departed, with rage in her countenance, and spite in her heart. The Baron
of Arnheim then stepped forward, and demanded of the knights and gentlemen around, if there
were any among them who would dare to make good with his sword the infamous falsehoods thrown
upon himself, his spouse, and his kinswoman. There was a general answer, utterly refusing to
defend the Baroness of Steinfeldt's words in so bad a cause, and universally testifying the
belief of the company that she spoke in the spirit of calumny and falsehood. 'Then let that
lie fall to the ground which no man of courage will hold up,' said the Baron of Arnheim; 'only,
all who are here this morning shall be satisfied whether the Baroness Hermione doth or doth
not share the rites of Christianity.' The Countess of Waldstetten made anxious signs to him
while he spoke thus; and when the crowd permitted her to approach near him, she was heard to
whisper,--'O, be not rash! try no experiment! there is something mysterious about that opal
talisman; be prudent, and let the matter pass by.' The baron, who was in a more towering passion
than well became the wisdom to which he made pretence, said, 'Are you, too, such a fool?' and
retained his purpose.

"The Baroness of Arnheim at this moment entered the hall, looking just so pale from her late
confinement as to render her lovely countenance more interesting, if less animated, than usual.
Having paid her compliments to the assembled company, she was beginning to inquire why Madame
de Steinfeldt was not present, when her husband made the signal for the company to move forward
to the chapel, and lent the baroness his arm to bring up the rear. The chapel was nearly filled
by the splendid company, and all eyes were bent on their host and hostess as they entered the
place of devotion immediately after four young ladies, who supported the infant babe in a light
and beautiful litter. As they passed the threshold, the baron dipt his finger in the font-stone
and offered holy-water to his lady, who accepted it, as usual, by touching his finger with
her own. But then, as if to confute the calumnies of the malevolent lady of Steinfeldt, with
an air of sportive familiarity which was rather unwarranted by the time and place, he flirted
on her beautiful forehead a drop or two of the moisture which remained on his own hand. The
opal, on which one of these drops had lighted, shot out a brilliant spark like a falling star,
and became the instant afterwards lightless and colourless as a common pebble, while the beautiful
baroness sunk on the floor of the chapel with a deep sigh of pain. All crowded around her in
dismay. The unfortunate Hermione was raised from the ground and conveyed to her chamber; and
so much did her countenance and pulse alter within the short time necessary to do this, that
those who looked upon her pronounced her a dying woman. She was no sooner in her own apartment
than she requested to be left alone with her husband. He remained an hour in the room, and
when he came out he locked and double locked the door behind him. He then betook himself to
the chapel, and remained there for an hour or more, prostrated before the altar. In the meantime
most of the guests had dispersed in dismay; though some abode out of courtesy or curiosity.
There was a general sense of impropriety in suffering the door of the sick lady's apartment
to remain locked; but, alarmed at the whole circumstances of her illness, it was some time
ere any one dared disturb the devotions of the baron. At length medical aid arrived, and the
Countess of Waldstetten took upon her to demand the key. She spoke more than once to a man
who seemed incapable of hearing, at least of understanding, what she said. At length he gave
her the key, and added sternly, as he did so, that all aid was unavailing, and that it was
his pleasure that all strangers should leave the castle. There were few who were inclined to
stay; when upon opening the door of the chamber in which the baroness had been deposited little
more than two hours before, no traces of her could be discovered, unless that there was about
a handful of light grey ashes, like such as might have been produced by burning fine paper,
found on the bed where she had been laid. A solemn funeral was nevertheless performed, with
masses and all other spiritual rites, for the soul of the high and noble Lady Hermione of Arnheim;
and it was exactly on that same day three years that the baron himself was laid in the grave
of the same chapel of Arnheim, with sword, shield, and helmet, as the last male of his family."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE TOPOGRAPHER.
  We gaze upon a giant for his stature,
    Nor judge at first, if all be true to nature.

BYRON.

Quoting from the same poem, we may truly say of Sawston Hall, Cambridgeshire--"The mansion's
self is vast and venerable,"--for it is one of the most pleasing architectural relics of the
"elder time," which at present exists in England. The house, a large, old, substantial mansion,
built partly, as says the tradition, from the walls of Cambridge Castle, has been the property
of the Roman Catholic family of Huddleston, for some centuries; and assuming its present appearance
early in the reign of Queen Mary, has, with only the trifling alterations incidental to necessary
repairs, retained it; for the Huddlestons, inhabiting Sawston Hall, and residing there in each
generation, highly respected as country gentlemen, either from the extravagance of some of
the family, or from a taste for old associations, have been prevented from altering it. As
the manor house, it stands near the church; the baronial chiefs who were always lords of the
manor, frequently building, if seldom patronizing, their village churches.

The mansion is a large, square building, situated in a garden, wherein may be observed the
remains of aggera, a moat, terrace, &c.; a river so shallow that it might be easily forded,
flows at the back of the house, and serves as one boundary to this garden. In the very small
inner court, stands a tower, enclosing a spiral staircase, which leads to the top of the house;
the whole length of the southern front of it is occupied by a gallery, and the dormitories
upon this floor, which communicate with each other, are hung with old tapestry. The principal
entrance is through a porch and door, which opens immediately into the baronial hall, a curious
place certainly, but slightly differing in arrangement and appearance from what we had previously
seen at Arundel Castle, Haddon Hall, and several colleges. The oriel window, instead of its
usual place at the upper end of the hall, was situated on one side, very near the corner; in
the recess formed by it, stood the baron's table, not as we had anticipated upon a dais, but
at least so veiled from the vulgar gaze of the retainers who feasted at a separate board in
the apartment, that it answered the purpose of distinguishing ranks equally well. The hall
is paved with red brick, and has a large, open fire-place, intimating well the hospitable spirit
of former days; its panels, curiously carved, are painted white and brown; the latter in imitation
of walnut wood, is probably a mere coating of paint drawn over the original panels of that
material, to ensure their preservation. Here too are the arms of the family emblazoned, in
which may be observed the lion of Britain and Fleur-de-lis of France, the Huddlestons being
descended from, or united to, the royal line of each nation.

There is, near the hall, an ancient refectory, or dining-room, shut up, and in so dangerous
a state as to require to be filled with props to support its ceiling. The grand staircase,
which is of oak, and coeval with the building, leads to the gallery, in which are situated
the principal sleeping-rooms, distinguished as the green, blue, red chambers, &c., according
to the predominant colours of the ancient and faded tapestry with which they are hung; nor
would the old manor-house deserve the name of such, was there not in one of these a concealed
door behind the arras, and in another, the report at least of a ghost. A narrow door, near
the end of the gallery, opens immediately upon an old and narrow staircase, the ascent to that
chapel in the very roof of the building, which at the period of the Reformation, was contrived
and fitted up for the secret advantage of the Roman Catholic proprietors of Sawston; this chamber,
for it is nothing more, is certainly little calculated to impress the mind of the spectator
with an idea of the splendour of Catholic worship; we approached it by a narrow decaying staircase,
stepped over bare rafters, and were scarcely able to pilot ourselves securely by the faint
glimmerings of day-light, streaming through the chinks in the tiling overhead. Upon the opening
of the chapel door, however, a full tide of light greeted us, admitted by a dormer window,
and this displayed an apartment, known by its altar and benches to be appropriated to sacred
purposes, the sole decorations of whose plain white-washed walls were some few engravings of
madonnas, saints, and holy families, &c., chiefly French, and not particularly beautiful or
valuable.

