The day came when Mr. Campion, not without misgiving, resolved to test the value of the education
which he had given to his children. He had held a fellowship at Peterhouse up to the time of
his marriage, and had intended that Sydney should try for a scholarship at the same college.
But the boy aimed at a higher mark; he was bent on being a Scholar of Trinity. Perhaps it might
have done him good to fail once or twice on the threshold of his life, had his father assured
himself beforehand that he would not be disappointed if his pupil was sent back to him for
another year of preparation. But, as we have already seen, Sidney succeeded, and, if the truth
must be told, Mr. Campion was in no way surprised at his success.

From that time forward none of the Campions ever dreamed of failure in connection with Sydney's
efforts. He certainly did not dream of failure for himself. He had that sublime confidence
which swells the heart of every young man in the flush of his first victory. We laugh in the
middle age at the ambitions which we nursed at twenty; but we did not laugh when the divine
breath was in us, and when our faith removed mountains of difficulty from our path.

Sydney's career at Cambridge was one long triumph. He gained the Craven and Porson scholarships;
his epigrams were quoted by college tutors as models of vigor and elegance; he was President
of the Union; he took an excellent degree, and was elected to a fellowship in due course. He
had, in fact, done brilliant things; and at the age of twenty-four he was--to those who knew
him best, and especially to those who liked him least--that shining, glorified, inspired, and
yet sophisticated product of modern university culture, an academic prig. The word is not of
necessity a term of reproach. Perhaps we are all prigs at some season in our lives, if we happen
to have any inherent power of doing great things. There are lovable prigs, who grow into admirable
men and women; but, alas! for the prig whose self-love coils round him like a snake, until
it crushes out the ingenuous fervor of youth, and perverts the noblest aspirations of manhood!

From Cambridge Sydney went to London, and was called to the bar. Here, of course, his progress
was not so rapid. Briefs do not come for wishing, nor even for merit alone. Nevertheless he
was advancing year by year in the estimation of good judges; and it was known to his father,
and to his intimate friends, that he only waited a favorable opportunity to stand for a seat
in parliament.

At Angleford, in the meantime, they watched his career with proud hearts and loving sympathy.
Mrs. Campion, in particular, doted on her son. She even scanned the paper every morning, never
by any chance missing an item of law intelligence, where occasionally she would be rewarded
by coming across Sydney's name. She would not have considered any distinction, however great,
to be more than his due.

Lettice never thought of disagreeing with her mother when she sang the praises of Sydney; but
it must be confessed that both the rector and his wife displayed less than their ordinary balance
of judgment in discussing the merits of their son. They unconsciously did much injustice to
the girl, by their excessive adulation of her brother, and her interests were constantly sacrificed
to his. She would have been the last to admit that it was so; but the fact was clear enough
to the few persons who used to visit them at Angleford. Her friend, Clara Graham, for instance,
the wife of a London journalist, who came down now and then to spend a holiday in her native
village, would attempt to commiserate Lettice on the hardness of her lot; but Lettice would
not listen to anything of the kind. She was too loyal to permit a word to be spoken in her
presence which might seem to reflect upon her parents or her brother.

Yet it would have been impossible that she should not be in some way affected by the change
which had come over her life since Sydney went to Cambridge. From that day her regular reading
with her father had ceased, and she was left to direct her studies as she thought best. Mr.
Campion was almost entirely absorbed in the prospects of his son, and if Lettice needed his
assistance she had to ask for it, often more than once. The consequence was that she soon gave
up asking, and her mind, left to its own devices, gradually found its true bent. She did not
read much more Latin or Greek, but devoured all the Modern literature that came in her way.
After that she began to write--not fiction in the first instance, but more or less solid essays
on criticism and social philosophy, following the pattern of certain writers in the half-crown
monthly magazines, which her father was wont to take in. If she had known that the time would
come when she would have to earn her living by her pen, she could scarcely have adopted a better
plan to prepare herself for the task.

In the first instance, whatever she did in this way had been for her own pleasure and distraction,
without any clear idea of turning her abilities to practical account. She had no inclination
for an idle life, but there was a limited period during which it rested with her father to
say what her occupation as a woman should be. When Sidney went to Cambridge, Lettice had entreated
that she might be sent to Girton or Newnham; but the young Scholar of Trinity had fought shy
of the notion, and it was dropped at once. That, indeed, was the beginning of Lettice's isolation--the
beginning of a kind of mental estrangement from her brother, which the lapse of time was to
widen and perpetuate.

Mr. Campion and his wife were by no means unkind to their daughter; they simply put Sydney
first in all their plans and anticipations of the future. Her education was supposed to be
complete; her lot was to be cast at home, and not in the rough outer world, where men compete
and struggle for the mastery. If she had complained, they might not have been shocked, but
they would have been immeasurably astonished. The rector had given her an excellent training,
and though his strongest motive was the desire to stimulate and encourage his son, no doubt
he had her interests in view at the same time. But when he finished with Sydney he finished
with Lettice, and it never occurred to him that there was any injustice in suddenly withdrawing
from her the arm on which he had taught her to lean.

She did not complain. Yet as time went on she could not shut her eyes to Sydney's habit of
referring every question to the test of personal expediency. It was her first great disillusion,
but the pain which it caused her was on her parents' behalf rather than on her own. They were
the chief sufferers; they gave him so much and received so little in return. To be sure, Sydney
was only what they had made him. They bade him "take," in language which he could easily understand,
but their craving for love, for tenderness, for a share in his hopes, ambitions, resolutions,
and triumphs, found no entrance to his understanding.

Sydney had spent a large sum of money at Cambridge, and had left heavy debts behind him, although
his father had paid without remonstrance all the accounts which he suffered to reach the old
man's hands. He had what are called expensive tastes; in other words, he bought what he coveted,
and did not count the cost. The same thing went on in London, and Mr. Campion soon found that
his income, good as it was, fell short of the demands which were made upon it.

The rector himself had always been a free spender. His books, his pictures, his garden, his
mania for curiosities, had run away with thousands of pounds, and now, when he surreptitiously
tried to convert these things into cash again there was a woeful falling off in their value.
He knew nothing of the art of driving a bargain; and, where others would have made a profit
with the same opportunities, he invariably lost money. He had bought badly to begin with, and
he sold disastrously. Being hard pressed on one occasion for a hundred pounds to send to Sydney,
he borrowed it of a perfect stranger, who took for his security what would have sufficed to
cover ten times the amount.

This was in the third year after Sydney was called to the bar. Lettice was in London that autumn,
on a visit to the Grahams; and perhaps something which she contrived to say to her brother
induced him to write and tell his father that briefs were coming in at last, and that he hoped
to be able to dispense with further remittances from home. Mr. Campion rejoiced in this assurance
as though it implied that Sydney had made his fortune. But things had gone too far with him
to admit of recovery, even if the young man had kept to his good resolutions--which he did not.

The fact is that Sydney's college debts hung like a weight round his neck, and he had made
no effort to be rid of them. The income of his fellowship and his professional earnings ought
to have been ample for all his needs, and no excuse can be urged for the selfishness which
made him a burden to his father after he had left Cambridge. But chambers in Piccadilly, as
well as at the Inner Temple, a couple of West End clubs, a nightly rubber at whist, and certain
regular drains upon his pocket which never found their way into any book of accounts, made
up a formidable total of expenditure by the year's end. He was too clever a man of the world
to let his reputation--or even his conscience--suffer by his self-indulgence, and, if he lived
hard in the pursuit of pleasure, he also worked hard in his profession. In short, he was a
well-reputed lawyer, against whom no one had a word to say; and he was supposed to have a very
good chance of the prizes which are wont to fall to the lot of successful lawyers.

At the beginning of 1880, when Sydney Campion was in his twenty-seventh year, there came to
him the opportunity for which he had waited. Mr. Disraeli had dissolved Parliament somewhat
suddenly, and appealed to the country for a renewal of the support accorded to him six years
before. He had carried out in Eastern Europe a policy worthy of an Imperial race. He had brought
peace with honor from Berlin, filled the bazaars of three continents with rumors of his fame,
and annexed the Suez Canal. He had made his Queen an Empress, and had lavished garters and
dukedoms on the greatest of Her Majesty's subjects. But the integrity of the empire, safe from
foes without, was threatened on either shore of St. George's Channel--by malignant treason
on one side, and on the other by exuberant verbosity. It was a moment big with the fate of
humanity--and he strongly advised the constituencies to make him Prime Minister again.

Then the country was plunged into the turmoil of a General Election. Every borough and shire
which had not already secured candidates hastened to do so. Zealous Liberals and enthusiastic
Tories ran up to town from the places where local spirit failed, or local funds were not forthcoming,
convinced that they would find no lack of either in the clubs and associations of the metropolis.
Young and ambitious politicians had their chance at last, and amongst others the chance came
for Sydney Campion.

There is no difficulty about getting into Parliament for a young man who has friends. He can
borrow the money, the spirit, the eloquence, the political knowledge, and he will never be
asked to repay any of them out of his own resources. Now Sydney had a friend who would have
seen him through the whole business on these terms, who would at any rate have found him money,
the only qualification in which he was deficient. But he fell into a trap prepared for him
by his own vanity, and, as it happened, the mistake cost him very dear.

"You see, Campion," his friend had said to him, after suggesting that he should go down as
Conservative candidate for Dormer, "our people know very well what they would get for their
money if you were elected. You would make your mark in the first session, and be immensely
useful to us in ever so many ways."

"Would it cost much?" asked Sydney, rather nettled by the mention of money. He had known Sir
John Pynsent at Cambridge, and had never allowed himself to be outdressed or outshone by him
in any way. But Pynsent had beaten him in the race for political honors; and Sydney, like a
showy player at billiards who prefers to put side on when he might make a straightforward stroke,
resolved to take a high tone with his would-be patronizing friend.

"Much?" said Sir John. "Well, no, not much, as things go. But these worthies at Dormer have
their own traditional ways of working the oracle. The Rads have got hold of a stockjobber who
is good for a thousand, and Maltman says they cannot fight him with less than that. The long
and short of it is that they want a strong candidate with five hundred pounds, and we are prepared
to send you down, my boy, and to be good for that amount."

Sydney took out his cigar case, and offered the beaming baronet a choice Villar.

"It's uncommonly good of you, Pynsent, to give me a look in at Dormer, and to suggest the other
thing in such a friendly way. Now, look here--can you let me have two days to say yes or no
to Maltman?"

"I am afraid I can't. He must have his answer in twenty-four hours."

"Well, say twenty-four hours. He shall have it by this time to-morrow. And as for the five
hundred, you may be wanting that by and by. Keep it for some fellow who is not in a position
to fight for his own hand."

Sir John Pynsent left his friend with a greatly increased opinion of his spirit and professional
standing--a result of the interview with which Sydney was perfectly satisfied.

Then came the serious question, how he was to deal with the emergency which had arisen--perhaps
the most critical emergency of his life. Within twenty-four hours he must know when and how
he could put his hand upon five hundred pounds.

He might easily have saved twice the sum before now; but he had never learned the art of saving.
He thought of his father, whom he had not seen or written to for more than a month, and determined
that he would at all events go down and consult the rector. He had not realized the fact that
his father's resources were already exhausted, and that mere humanity, to say nothing of filial
duty, required him to come to the old man's assistance, instead of asking him for fresh sacrifices.

"If he has not the money," Sydney said, "no doubt he can help me to raise it. It will be an
excellent investment of our joint credit, and a very good thing for us both."

So he telegraphed to Angleford--

"I am going to contest a borough. Must make provision. Shall be with you by next train."

CHAPTER IV.

FATHER AND SON.

Sydney's telegram reached Angleford at an awkward time. Things had been going from bad to worse
with Mr. Campion, who had never had as much money as he needed since he paid the last accounts
of the Cambridge tradesmen. In the vain hope that matters would mend by and by--though he did
not form any precise idea as to how the improvement would take place--he had been meeting each
engagement as it came to maturity by entering on another still more onerous. After stripping
himself of all his household treasures that could be converted into money, he had pledged his
insurance policy, his professional and private income, and at last even his furniture; and
he was now in very deep waters.

A great change had come over him. At sixty, when Sydney took his degree, he was still handsome
and upright, buoyant with hope and energy. At sixty-six he was broken, weak, and disheartened.
To his wife and daughter, indeed, he was always the same cheerful, gentle, sanguine man, full
of courtesy and consideration. In the village he was more beloved than ever, because there
was scarcely a man or woman who was not familiar with the nature and extent of his troubles.
In a country parish the affairs of the parson, especially when they do not prosper, are apt
to become the affairs of the congregation as well. Who should know better than a man's butcher
and baker when the supply of ready money runs short, when one month would be more convenient
than another for the settlement of a bill, or when the half-year's stipend has been forestalled
and appropriated long before it fell due?

However great his trouble, the rector had generally contrived to put a good face on things.
He considered his difficulties as entirely the result of his own improvidence, and rejoiced
to think that Sydney's position was assured, no matter what might happen to himself. Yet often
in the silence of the night he would toss upon his restless bed, or vex his soul with complicated
accounts in the privacy of his study, and none but the two faithful women who lived with him
suspected what he suffered in his weakest moments.

He had come to lean more and more constantly on the companionship of Lettice. Mrs. Campion
had never been the kind of woman to whom a man looks for strength or consolation, and when
she condoled with her husband he usually felt himself twice as miserable as before. Some wives
have a way of making their condolences sound like reproaches; and they may be none the less
loving wives for that. Mrs. Campion sincerely loved her husband, but she never thoroughly understood
him.

When the boy arrived with Sydney's telegram, Lettice intercepted him at the door. She was accustomed
to keep watch over everything that entered the house, and saved her father a great deal of
trouble by reading his letters, and, if need be, by answering them. What he would have done
without her, he was wont to aver, nobody could tell.

Time had dealt gently with Lettice, in spite of her anxieties, in spite of that passionate
revolt against fate which from time to time had shaken her very soul. She was nearly five-and-twenty,
and she certainly looked no more then twenty-one. The sweet country air had preserved the delicate
freshness of her complexion: her dark grey eyes were clear, her white brow unlined by trouble,
her rippling brown hair shining and abundant. Her slender hands were a little tanned--the only
sign that country life had laid upon her--because she was never very careful about wearing
gloves when she worked in the garden; but neither tan nor freckle ever appeared upon her face,
the bloom of which was tender and refined as that of a briar-rose. The old wistful look of
her sweet eyes remained unchanged, but the mouth was sadder in repose than it had been when
she was a child. When she smiled, however, there could not have been a brighter face.

Notwithstanding this touch of sadness on her lips, and a faint shadow of thought on the clear
fine brows, the face of Lettice was noticeable for its tranquillity. No storm of passion had
ever troubled those translucent eyes: patience sat there, patience and reflection; emotion
waited its turn. One could not doubt her capabilities of feeling; but, in spite of her four-and-twenty
years, the depths of her heart had never yet been stirred. She had lived a somewhat restricted
life, and there was yet very much for her to experience and to learn. Who would be her teacher?
For Lettice was not the woman to go ignorant of life's fullest bliss and deepest sorrow to
the grave.

