Well, the scheme was simple; but the remedy was simple also. The Martover meeting was still
rather more than three weeks off. But she understood from Page that after it the Chancellor
and his daughter were to spend the week-end at the cottage on the hill, belonging to that odious
person, Dr. Atherstone. A note sent on their arrival would prepare the way for an interview,
and an interview that could not be refused. No time was to be lost, unless Arthur's political
prospects were to be completely and irretrievably ruined. The mere whisper of such a courtship,
in the embittered state of politics, would be quite enough to lose him his seat--to destroy
that slender balance of votes on the right side, which the country districts supplied, to neutralize
the sour radicalism of the small towns in his division.

She reached a rising ground in the park, where was a seat under a fine oak, commanding a view.
The green slopes below her ran westward to a wide sky steeped toward the horizon in all conceivable
shades of lilac and pearl, with here and there in the upper heaven lakes of blue and towering
thunder-clouds brooding over them, prophesying storm. She looked out over her domain, in which,
up to a short time before, her writ, so to speak, had run, like that of a king. And now all
sense of confidence, of security, was gone. There on the hillside was the white patch of Knatchett--the
old farmhouse, where Coryston had settled himself. It showed to her disturbed mind like the
patch of leaven which, scarcely visible at first, will grow and grow "till the whole is leavened."
A leaven of struggle and revolt. And only her woman's strength to fight it.

Suddenly--a tremor of great weakness came upon her. Arthur, her dearest! It had been comparatively
easy to fight Coryston. When had she not fought him? But Arthur! She thought of all the happy
times she had had with him--electioneering for him, preparing his speeches, watching his first
steps in the House of Commons. The years before her, her coming old age, seemed all at once
to have passed into a gray eclipse; and some difficult tears forced their way. Had she, after
all, mismanaged her life? Were prophecies to which she had always refused to listen--she seemed
to hear them in her dead husband's voice!--coming true? She fell into a great and lonely anguish
of mind; while the westerly light burned on the broidery of white hawthorns spread over the
green spaces below, and on the loops and turns of the little brimming trout-stream that ran
so merrily through the park.

But she never wavered for one moment as to her determination to see Enid Glenwilliam after
the Martover meeting; nor did the question of Arthur's personal happiness enter for one moment
into her calculations.

CHAPTER XI

The breakfast gong had just sounded at Hoddon Grey. The hour was a quarter to nine. Prayers
in the chapel were over, and Lord and Lady Newbury, at either end of the table, spectacles
on nose, were opening and reading their letters.

"Where is Edward?" said Lady William, looking round.

"My dear!" Lord William's tone was mildly reproachful.

"Of course--I forgot for a moment!" And on Lady William's delicately withered cheek there appeared
a slight flush. For it was their wedding-day, and never yet, since his earliest childhood,
had their only son, their only child, failed, either personally or by deputy, to present his
mother with a bunch of June roses on the morning of this June anniversary. While he was in
India the custom was remitted to the old head gardener, who always received, however, from
the absent son the appropriate letter or message to be attached to the flowers. And one of
the most vivid memories Lady William retained of her son's boyhood showed her the half-open
door of an inn bedroom at Domodossola, and Edward's handsome face--the face of a lad of eleven--looking
in, eyes shining, white teeth grinning, as he held aloft in triumph the great bunch of carnations
and roses for which the little fellow had scoured the sleepy town in the early hours. They
had taken him abroad for the first time, during a break between his preparatory school and
Eton, when he was convalescing from a dangerous attack of measles; and Lady William could never
forget the charm of the boy's companionship, his eager docility and sweetness, his delight
in the Catholic churches and services, his ready friendships with the country-folk, with the
coachman who drove them, and the sagrestani who led them through dim chapels and gleaming monuments.

But when indeed had he not been their delight and treasure from his youth up till now? And
though in the interest of a long letter from her Bishop to whom she was devoted, Lady William
had momentarily forgotten the date, this wedding-day was, in truth, touched, for both parents,
with a special consecration and tenderness, since it was the first since Edward's own betrothal.
And there beside Lady William's plate lay a large jeweler's case, worn and old-fashioned, whereof
the appearance was intimately connected both with the old facts and the new.

Meanwhile, a rainy morning, in which, however, there was a hidden sunlight, threw a mild illumination
into the Hoddon Grey dining-room, upon the sparely provided breakfast-table, the somewhat austere
line of family portraits on the gray wall, the Chippendale chairs shining with the hand-polish
of generations, the Empire clock of black and ormolu on the chimney-piece and on the little
tan spitz, sitting up with wagging tail and asking eyes, on Lady William's left. Neither she
nor her husband ever took more than--or anything else than--an egg with their coffee and toast.
They secretly despised people who ate heavy breakfasts, and the extra allowance made for Edward's
young appetite, or for guests, was never more than frugal. Sir Wilfrid Bury, who was a hearty
eater, was accustomed to say of the Hoddon Grey fare that it deprived the Hoddon Grey fasts--which
were kept according to the strict laws of the Church--of any merit whatever. It left you nothing
to give up.

Nevertheless, this little morning scene at Hoddon Grey possessed, for the sensitive eye, a
peculiar charm. The spaces of the somewhat empty room matched the bareness of the white linen,
the few flowers standing separately here and there upon it, and the few pieces of old silver.
The absence of any loose abundance of food or gear, the frugal refined note, were of course
symbolic of the life lived in the house. The Newburys were rich. Their beautifully housed,
and beautifully kept estate, with its nobly adorned churches, its public halls and institutions,
proclaimed the fact; but in their own private sphere it was ignored as much as possible.

"Here he is!" exclaimed Lady William, turning to the door with something of a flutter. "Oh,
Edward, they are lovely!"

Her son laid the dewy bunch beside her plate and then kissed his mother affectionately.

"Many happy returns!--and you, father! Hullo--mother, you've got a secret--you're blushing!
What's up?"

And still holding Lady William by the arm, he looked smilingly from her to the jeweler's case
on the table.

"They must be reset, dear; but they're fine."

Lady William opened the case, and pushed it toward him. It contained a necklace and pendant,
two bracelets, and a stomacher brooch of diamonds and sapphire--magnificent stones in a heavy
gold setting, whereof the Early Victorianism cried aloud. The set had been much admired in
the great exhibition of 1851, where indeed it had been bought by Lady William's father as a
present to his wife. Secretly Lady William still thought it superb; but she was quite aware
that no young woman would wear it.

Edward looked at it with amusement.

