For some reason the cavalry had not been used. The artillery was just coming up when the action
had reached this point. The Spanish found that the enemy had, instead of being routed, simply
fallen back and taken a position on another hill, and scattered firing went on for a considerable
time, while Luque prepared to attack again. Then, against 2,000 of Maceo's men, was directed
all of Luque's command, over 4,000 infantry, 200 cavalry, and eleven pieces of artillery.

At least half of Maceo's army, certainly not less than 2,000 cavalry, had been moving up to
Luque's rear and came upon him, surprising him just as this second attack was being made.

For a time it was a question whether Luque's command would not be wiped out. They were practically
surrounded by Maceo's men, and for fully an hour and a half the fighting was desperate. It
is impossible to unravel the stories of both sides so as to arrive at a clear idea of the encounter.

When the cannonading ceased, four companies of infantry charged up the hill and occupied it
before the insurgents, who had been driven out by the artillery, could regain it. Shortly the
hill on the left of the road was taken in the same way, and Luque, although at a great loss,
had repelled Maceo's attack from the rear.

The battle had lasted for a little over two hours. Maceo had about forty of his men wounded
and left four dead on the field, taking away ten others. Twenty or more of his horses were
killed. The Spanish reported that he had 1,000 killed, the next day reduced the number to 300,
and finally to the statement that "the enemy's losses must have been enormous," the usual phrase
when the true number is humiliating. Luque's losses have never been officially reported, but
it is variously estimated at from seventy-five to a hundred men.

THE WORK OF FIENDS.

The Cubans give horrible details of a battle at Paso Heal, between General Luque's army and
a division of Maceo's forces under Bermudez. Witnesses of the encounter claim that the Spaniards
invaded the hospital and killed wounded insurgents in their beds, and that, Bermudez, in retaliation,
formed a line, and shot thirty-seven Spanish prisoners.

Luque says in his report of this engagement: "The rebels made a strong defense, firing from
the tops of houses and along the fences around the city. The Spanish vanguard, under Colonel
Hernandez, attacked the vanguard, center and rear guard of the rebels in the central streets
of the town, driving them with continuous volleys and fierce cavalry charges into the outskirts
of the town. Up to this point we had killed ten insurgents."

The people of Paso Keal say this report is true, as far as it goes, but that Luque neglects
to add that he then attacked the hospital, and murdered twenty-eight wounded men, firing at
them as they lay on their cots, through the windows, and finally breaking down the door, and
killing the rest with the bayonet.

Under date of February 8th we have an account of the operations of the Spanish General Sabas
Marin, who left Havana a short time before. His campaign in search of General Gomez was disastrous,
and the official reports of Spanish victories were misleading. There were losses on both sides,
but Marin accomplished absolutely nothing of what he intended to achieve.

The first misfortune which overtook the Spaniards was the rout of Carnellas, on the very day
on which Marin left Havana, Gomez sent a detachment under Pedro Diaa to intercept him, and
this force reached Saladrigas in the early morning. In this section the country is cut into
small fields, divided by stone fences, and facing the road there is a high fence, with a ditch
in front of it. Diaz placed 400 infantry behind this fence, and waited himself with 1,000 cavalry
back of a hill close by. When the Spanish forces appeared, the advance guard was allowed to
pass, and as soon as the main body was fairly in the trap, volleys were poured into them, literally
mowing them down. At the sound of the first gun, Diaz led his thousand horsemen upon the enemy's
flank and rear. The charge was irresistible. Half of Diaz's men did not even fire a shot, but
yelling "machete," they rode furiously upon the Spanish lines, cutting their way through, and
fighting with terrible effect.

The Spanish issued no official report of this battle. So far as the records show, it never
occurred. One of the Spanish officers, who fought in it, conceded a loss of 200 men, but it
is probable that twice that number would be nearer the correct figure.

AMERICANS IN THE CUBAN ARMY.

Colonel Frederick Funston, who returned to New York in January, 1898, told an interesting story
of brave Yankee boys serving under General Gomez and General Garcia in Eastern Cuba, and also
gave an account of the sad death of W. Dana Osgood, the famous football player, formerly of
the University of Pennsylvania.

Colonel Funston was with Gomez's army when they attacked Guimaro. They had with them a twelve-pound
Hotchkiss rifle and four American artillerymen, Osgood of Pennsylvania, Latrobe and Janney
of Baltimore, and Devine of Texas.

They attacked Guimaro in the morning, at ranges of from 400 to 600 yards, the infantry being
protected by a breastwork of earth, in which openings were left for the guns.

The Spanish garrison consisted of 200 men in eleven forts, and they maintained a hot fire all
day. Gradually, however, the Hotchkiss rifle, the fire of which was directed by Osgood, made
the largest and nearest fort untenable, and it was abandoned by the garrison. No sooner had
the Spanish forces left it than a band of the insurgents took possession, and from this point
of vantage the fighting was continued with renewed vigor. As soon as darkness came on one of
the Cuban guns was moved forward and stationed in this fort, and on the following day a storm
of shot and shell was directed at the other forts.

Naturally the rifles of the garrison were trained most of the time upon the man sighting the
Hotchkiss in the captured fort, and there, leaning over his gun in the early morning, the intrepid
Osgood was shot through the head. He was carried off by his comrades under fire, and died four
hours later. The death of this gallant young soldier was universally lamented, and the Cubans
honor his memory as one of the first Americans to give his life while fighting for their cause.

With Gomez, with Garcia, and with Maceo, in every insurgent camp, there were brave men, American
born, who fought for the flag of Free Cuba, side by side with the native soldier, and who gave
their lives in the war against Spanish tyranny and misrule.

CHAPTER XXII.

FILIBUSTERS FROM FLORIDA.

First Expeditions--Expense to the United States--President Pierce's Action--The Uprising in
1868-The Patrol of the Coasts-- An Expedition on the "Three Friends"--Arms and Ammunition for
the Insurgents--Desperate Chances--A Successful Landing.

The record of the last fifty years is the clearest and most convincing evidence that can be
offered against the Spanish contention that the United States is not concerned with the question
of government in Cuba, and has not been tremendously injured by the inability of Spanish administration
to furnish the Cubans with a peaceful and satisfactory government. The first bit of evidence
to be submitted comes from away back in 1848, when President Polk, on behalf of the United
States, announced that while the United States was willing that Cuba should be continued under
Spanish ownership and government, it would never consent to the occupation of the island by
any other European nation.

It was pointed out at that time by the American government that were the United States to admit
that Cuba was open to seizure by any government that was able to throw Spain out the fact that
it was nearly surrounded, in Central and South America and in other West Indian islands, by
territory belonging to twelve other nations would make it the ground of interminable squabbles.
And these squabbles were not matters which would be without interest and damage to the commerce
and peace of the United States. This was followed by an offer of $100,000,000 to Spain for
the island of Cuba. The offer was promptly declined, and the United States was informed that
Cuba was not on the market.

FIRST FILIBUSTERING EXPEDITION.

Nevertheless, there was formed in the United States the Lone Star Society, which had as its
object "the acquisition of the island of Cuba as part of the territory of the United States."

The "Conspiracy of Lopez," which is fully treated of in previous pages of this work, was the
first filibustering expedition that attracted particular attention from the authorities, and
it was hoped that its disastrous end would deter others from like attempts. But the hope was
a vain one, for within two years a similar expedition, led by General Quitman of Mississippi,
was organized in the United States. Many men were enlisted and vessels chartered, but the expedition
was suppressed by the government of the United States.

EXPENSE TO UNITED STATES.

It will thus be seen that the fact that Spain had not been able to govern Cuba peaceably has
caused the United States great expense and irritation for a much longer period than is usually
taken into consideration in these days. It is not the fault of the United States that its citizens
have been stirred to sympathy with the victims of the Spanish policy of government by robbery
and murder. It is not the fault of the United States that this country has been the refuge
of men who have been outlawed from the country of their birth because their presence there
meant the irrepressible working in them of a desire for freedom, a desire intolerable to Spanish
institutions.

It is not the fault of the United States that these refugees, living in the land of civil liberty,
should desire to return to their native country and drive out those who made it miserable.
But it would have been the fault of the United States, under international law, if these exiled
Cubans were permitted to carry out their very natural and laudable desire in concert with the
Americans whose sympathy had been stirred by the story of Spanish wrongs. To ferret out the
plans for expeditions conceived with such determination and perseverance was not only a task
requiring tremendous expenditure of money and energy, but it was a miserably disagreeable and
unpopular work for the government to engage in.

On the 31st of May, 1854, President Pierce issued a proclamation instructing citizens of the
United States as to their duties in refraining from encouragement, aid, or participation in
connection with the Cuban insurrections.

THE UPRISING IN 1868.

In the fall of 1868, after scattering uprisings and several battles during the preceding year,
plans for a concerted insurrection were arranged. The plan was discovered and the insurrection
was started prematurely. There followed a campaign in which Spanish forces, amounting to 110,000
men, were unable to hold in check the Cuban force of about 26,000. In May the filibustering
expeditions, that were to prove such an immense expense and annoyance to the United States,
began again. The Spanish navy co-operated with the United States government in the efforts
to suppress these expeditions, but many of them eluded the authorities, and aided the insurgents
with arms and provisions.

This was irritating to Spain and the United States alike, because it cost just as much to keep
up an unsuccessful anti-filibustering patrol as it did actually to catch filibusters, and,
moreover, every successful expedition weakened the authority of the Federal government. That
authority in the Southern States just after the war was none too strong, and it was not a good
thing that the spectacle of defiance to the United States should be flaunted along the Southern
coast.

From 1878 until 1895, when the present insurrection gained strength to become openly active,
the island is supposed to have been at peace, but in the latter year the open war and filibustering
expeditions began again. The name of President Cleveland was added to the list of Presidents
whose duty it was to interfere with efforts to aid Cuban liberty. He issued appropriate proclamations
on June 12, 1895, and July 30, 1896. Revenue cutters and warships constantly patrolled the
Florida coast and, indeed, all the waters of the gulf, and sometimes New York harbor, to head
off filibustering expeditions. It is said to have cost more to suppress the natural desire
of citizens of the United States to relieve the political distress in Cuba than it has cost
to enforce customs regulations from the same territory.

THE VOYAGE OF THE "THREE FRIENDS."

As evidence of the fact that Cuban sympathizers have been successful in escaping the patrol
on American coasts and the enemy's battleships in Cuban waters, we give the report of one of
many expeditions that have been made during the past three years.

The steamer "Three Friends," of Jacksonville, Florida, in command of Captain Napoleon B. Broward,
returned to Jacksonville on March 18th, having succeeded in landing in Cuba, General Enrique
Collazo, Major Charles Hernandez, and Duke Estrada, besides fifty- four men taken off the schooner
"Ardell" from Tampa, and the entire cargo of arms and ammunition of the schooner "Mallory"
from Cedar Key. It was by long odds the most important expedition that has set out from this
country, and the Cubans at Jacksonville, when they learned that the "Three Friends" had safely
fulfilled her mission, shouted "Viva Cuba!" until they were hoarse.

They declared that it would change the character of the whole war, as the unarmed men would
now be armed, and that Maceo, who had before been wary and cautious, would be more aggressive
than he had ever been before. The cargo of arms landed by the "Three Friends" and the "Mallory"
was as follows: 750,000 rounds of cartridges, 1,200 rifles, 2,100 machetes, 400 revolvers,
besides stores, reloading tools, etc.

The "Three Friends" met the "Mallory" at Alligator Key. The "Ardell" had just finished transferring
the men to her. While they were rendezvoused there behind the pines in a deep coral-walled
creek, three big Spanish men-of-war steamed slowly by, but they did not discover that there
was anything suspicious looking in shore, although with a glass men could be seen in their
look-outs scanning the horizon, as well as searching the shore. Sunday, about noon, no vessels
being in sight, the "Three Friends" took in tow the "Mallory" and steamed southward under a
good head of steam.

The "Three Friends" is a powerful tug, and by Monday night was close enough to the Cuban shore
to hear the breakers. Several shiplights to the west were seen, one of which was evidently
a Spanish man-of-war, for she had a search-light at her bow, and was sweeping the waves with
it, but the "Three Friends" was a long way off, and had no light, and so was out of the neighborhood
of the Spaniard.

A SUCCESSFUL LANDING.

At ten o'clock that night, by the aid of a naphtha launch and two big surf boats, which had
been taken out of Jacksonville, the "Three Friends" landed the men and ammunition from her
hold, and from that of the "Mallory." It took four and a half hours to complete the job. There
were hundreds of men on shore to assist, and they did it silently, appreciating the peril of
the position.

The Cubans on shore recognized General Collazo immediately, and no words can describe their
joy on seeing him. He is a veteran of Cuban wars, and one whom Spain fears. In fact, it is
known that during his sojourn in Florida he was shadowed by detectives, who had been instructed
to spare no expense to keep Collazo from reaching Cuba. When it was whispered that Collazo
was really among them, they seemed not to believe their ears, but came forward and looked,
and, seeing that there was really no mistake, threw up their arms and wept for joy. Major Charles
Hernandez and Duke Estrada were also enthusiastically welcomed.

It was reported that night that Maceo had received the arms of the first expedition that set
forth three days before the "Three Friends" landed. They were not from the "Commodore," for
they reported that they were now on the lookout for that vessel. They said, too, that at the
end of the week four expeditions were afloat. Two, including the "Three Friends," had landed,
and two more were on the way. Tuesday morning, as the "Three Friends" was returning, she sighted
a steamer that answered to the description of the "Commodore." She was headed southward, and
pushing along apparently at the rate of fifteen knots an hour.

Here is the story of the capture of an expedition, by Commander Butron, of the Spanish gunboat
"Mensagera":

"The 'Mensagera' was directed to watch the coast between Cayo Julia and Morrillo, about one
hundred miles. It was heard on the afternoon of April 25 that a suspicious schooner had been
seen near Quebrados de TJvas. The gunboat followed, and found the 'Competitor.' The usual signals
were made, but the schooner tried to get closer in shore, so as to land a rapid-fire gun.

"The 'Mensagera' was then moved forward and fired a shot, which struck the schooner and exploded
a box of cartridges which the men were trying to take ashore. Several occupants of the schooner
became alarmed, and threw themselves into the water, fearing an explosion of dynamite. The
gunboat's crew seized rifles and began shooting, killing three men. Several others reached shore.

"Three men were aboard the schooner when it was overhauled, and they surrendered without resistance.
Among them was Owen Milton, editor of the Key West Mosquito. Sailors were sent ashore to capture
the arms landed. In the skirmish, two men, supposed to be filibusters, and a horse were killed.
They secured several abandoned cases of cartridges. A body of insurgents had come to watch
the landing of the boat's crew. The 'Mensagera' came to Havana with the arms and prisoners,
who were very seasick. The schooner was towed to Havana by the gunboat 'Vicente Yanez.' It
is regarded as an object of great curiosity by the crowds. It had the Spanish flag floating
when captured. It is a neat, strong boat, and looks fast. One of the prisoners captured steadily
refuses to give his name."

An account of the trial, as sent from Havana, May 8th, reads as follows:

"The court opened at the Arsenal. The prisoners were Alfredo Liaborde, born in New Orleans;
Owen Milton, of Kansas; William Kinlea, an Englishman, and Elias Vedia and Teodore Dela Maza,
both Cubans. Captain Ruiz acted as president of the court, which consisted of nine other military
and naval officers. The trial of the five filibusters captured aboard the 'Competitor' was
proceeded with against the formal protest presented by Consul General Williams, who declared
that the trial was illegal and in violation of the treaty between Spain and the United States.

"The prisoners were not served with a copy of the charges against them and were not allowed
to select their own counsel, but were represented by a naval officer appointed by the government,
They were not permitted to call witnesses for their defense, the prosecution calling all the
witnesses. Owen Milton, of Kansas, testified through an interpreter that he came on the expedition
only to correspond for a newspaper. William Kinlea, when called, was in his shirt sleeves.
He arose and said in English, 'I do not recognize your authority, and appeal for protection
to the American and English consuls.'"

Fortunately for these prisoners, the United States government interfered, and they were eventually
released.

CHAPTER XXIII.

WEYLER THE BUTCHER.

His Ancestry--A Soldier From His Youth--He Succeeds General Campos--A Master of Diplomacy--A
Slave of Spain--His Personal Appearance--His Interview With a Woman--His Definition of War--
His Resignation.

Early in 1896, when the Spanish government began to realize that the insurrection was assuming
serious proportions, arrangements were made for the recall of General Campos, then Governor-General
of the island, and General Weyler was sent to assume the duties of the office. It was the opinion
in Spain that Campos was too mild in his treatment of the rebels, and as Weyler was known to
have no lamb-like qualities, he was regarded as the ideal man for the position. That he did
not succeed in putting down the rebellion was certainly not due to any lack of extreme measures
on his part. He is known as the "Butcher," and his management of affairs in Cuba certainly
gives him every right to the title.

Valeriano Weyler y Nicolau, to give him his full name, is only half a Spaniard. His father
was a Prussian, though Weyler himself was born in Cadiz in 1839. His parents were in very moderate
circumstances and not of noble birth. What Weyler has won he has acquired through his own efforts.
He has made his way single- handed. He graduated from the infantry school at Toledo in 1857
and was at once sent to Cuba as a subaltern. He was quickly made a captain and his first work
was to subdue a small revolt in San Domingo.

He rose rapidly in rank, and during the first Cuban revolt he was in command in the province
of Santiago, where he earned the title that has since made him famous in the eyes of his supporters,
but infamous from a civilized point of view. But he put down the revolt. He was rewarded with
the appointment of captain general of the Canary islands. His administration was so successful
that he was created Marquis of Teneriffe. He was then barely thirty-nine years old. He distinguished
himself in the Carlist war and at its conclusion he was made captain general of the Philippines,
where he quelled an insurrection and admittedly gave the islands the best administration they
had ever known. He returned to Spain in 1889 and was in command at Barcelona until the present
Cuban revolution began.

Here is a mental photograph of him by a newspaper correspondent:

"Most men resemble their reputations, and if a life famously spent is in the mind of one who
visits a character of world-wide repute, he quite naturally discovers peculiarities, of facial
expression and physique which appear to account for the individuality of the man, fighter,
philosopher, criminal, reformer or whatever he may be.

"All this is true of General Weyler. He is one of those men who create a first impression,
the first sight of whom can never be effaced from the mind, by whose presence the most careless
observer is impressed instantly, and yet, taken, altogether, he is a man in whom the elements
of greatness are concealed under a cloak of impenetrable obscurity. Inferior physically, unsoldierly
in bearing, exhibiting no trace of refined sensibilities nor pleasure in the gentle associations
that others live for, or at least seek as diversions, he is nevertheless the embodiment of
mental acuteness, crafty, unscrupulous, fearless and of indomitable perseverance.

"I have talked with Campos, Marin and Weyler, the three Captain- Generals to whom Spain has
intrusted (thus far unsuccessfully) the reconquest of Cuba. Reconquest seems an ill-chosen
word, but one of General Weyler's staff has so denominated this war, and Cuban revolutions
can be settled only by conquests, Campos was an exceptional man. Marin was commonplace. Weyler
is unique. Campos and Marin affected gold lace, dignity and self-consciousness. Weyler ignores
them all as useless, unnecessary impediments, if anything, to the one object of his existence.
Campos was fat, good natured, wise, philosophical, slow in his mental processes, clear in his
judgment, emphatic in his opinions, outspoken, and, withal, lovable, humane, conservative,
constructive, progressive, with but one project ever before him, the glorification of Spain
as a mother-land and a figure among peaceful, enlightened nations.

"Weyler is lean, diminutive, shriveled, ambitious for immortality, irrespective of its odor,
a master of diplomacy, the slave of Spain, for the glory of sitting at the right of her throne,
unlovable, unloving, exalted, and doubtless justly, in self- esteem, because he is unmistaken
in his estimation of his value to his Queen. His passion is success, per se, foul or fair consequences
or the conventional ideas of humanity notwithstanding.

"He is a little man. An apparition of blacks--black eyes, black hair, black beard, dark, exceedingly
dark, complexion, a plain black attire, black shoes, black tie, a very dirty shirt and soiled
standing collar, with no jewelry and not a relief from the aspect of darkness anywhere on his
person.

"It is not remarkable that I momentarily hesitated to make certain that this was actually Weyler.
Doubt was dispelled with a look at his face. His eyes, far apart, bright, alert and striking,
took me in at a glance. His face seemed to run to his chin, his lower jaw protruding far beyond
any ordinary sign of firmness, persistence or willpower. His forehead is neither high nor receding,
neither is it that of a thoughtful or philosophic man. His ears are set far back, and what
is called the region of intellect, in which are those mental attributes that might be defined
as powers of observation, calculation, judgment, and execution, is strongly developed. The
conformation of his head, however, is not one that is generally accepted as an indication of
any marked possession of philoprogenitiveness or its kindred emotions and inclinations. His
nose is aquiline, bloodless and obtrusive; When he speaks it is with a high nasal enunciation
that is not disagreeable, because it is not prolonged, and his sentences justify every impression
that has already been formed of the man. They are short, crisp, emphatic and expressive.

"'I have an aversion to speech,' he said. 'I am an enemy of publications. I prefer to act,
not to talk. I am here to restore peace. When peace is in the land I am going away. I am a
soldier. When I am gone, politicians will reconstruct Cuba, and probably they will upset things
again until they are as bad as they are now. I care not for America, England, anyone, but only
for the treaties we have with them. They are the law. I observe the law, and every letter of
the law. I have my ideas of Cuba's relation to Spain. I have never expressed them. Some politicians
would agree with them, others would not. No one would agree with all of them. I know I am merciless,
but mercy has no place in war. I know the reputation which has been built up for me. Things
that are charged to me were done by officers under me, and I was held responsible for all things
in the Ten-Years' war, including its victorious end. I do not conceal the fact that I am here
solely because it is believed I can crush this insurrection. I care not what is said about
me, unless it is a lie so great as to occasion alarm. I am not a politician. I am Weyler.'"

A WOMAN'S INTERVIEW WITH WEYLER.

The following interview with the "Butcher" is by Mrs. Kate Masterson, who bearded the lion
in his den for an American newspaper:

"His Excellency, Captain-General Weyler, graciously gave me an audience to-day. He received
me with most charming courtesy, escorted me through his apartments and presented me with a
bunch of roses from his own table. Before I left he had honored me with an invitation to dine
with him at the Palace.

"'Your Excellency,' I said to him through my interpreter, 'the American women have a very bad
opinion of you. I am very much afraid of you myself, but I have come to ask the honor of an
interview with you, in order that I may write something which will reassure the women of America
that you are not treating women and children unmercifully.'

"'I do not give interviews,' he said. 'I am willing, however, to answer any question you wish
to ask.'

"'In the United States,' I said, 'an impression prevails that your edict shutting out newspaper
correspondents from the field is only to conceal cruelties perpetrated upon the insurgent prisoners.
Will your Excellency tell me the real cause?'

"'I have,' replied the General, 'shut out the Spanish and Cuban papers from the field, as well
as the American. In the last war the correspondents created much jealousy by what they wrote.
They praised one and rebuked the other. They wrote what the prisoners dictated, instead of
facts. They even created ill-feeling between the Spanish officers. They are a nuisance.'

"'Then I can deny the stories as to your being cruel?'

"The General shrugged his heavy shoulders as he said carelessly: 'I have no time to pay attention
to stories. Some of them are true and some are not. If you will particularize I will give direct
answers, but these things are not important.'

"'Does not your Excellency think that prisoners of war should be treated with consideration
and mercy?'

"The General's eyes glinted dangerously. 'The Spanish columns attend to their prisoners just
as well as any other country in time of war,' he replied. 'War is war. You cannot make it otherwise,
try as you will.'

"'Will not your Excellency allow me to go to the scene of battle under an escort of soldiers,
if necessary, that I may write of the situation as it really is, and correct the impression
that prevails in America that inhuman treatment is being accorded to the insurgent prisoners?'

"'Impossible,' answered the General. 'It would not be safe.'

"'I am willing to take all the danger, if your Excellency will allow me to go,' I exclaimed.

"General Weyler laughed. 'There would be no danger from the rebels,' he said, 'but from the
Spanish soldiers. They are of a very affectionate disposition and would all fall in love with you.'

"'I will keep a great distance from the fighting, if you will allow me to go.'

"The General's lips closed tightly, and he said: 'Impossible! Impossible!'

"'What would happen,' I asked, 'if I should be discovered crossing the lines without permission?'

"'You would be treated just the same as a man.'

"'Would I be sent to Castle Morro?'

"'Yes,' he replied, nodding his head vigorously. That settled it. I decided not to go.

"'Why,' I asked him, 'is the rule incommunicado placed upon prisoners? Is it not cruel to prevent
a man from seeing his wife and children?'

"'The rule incommunicado,' said the General, 'is a military law. Prisoners are allowed to see
their relatives as a favor, but we exercise discretion in these cases.'

"'There are stories that prisoners are shot in Castle Morro at daybreak each morning, and that
the shots can be plainly heard across the bay. Is this true?'

"The General's eyes looked unpleasant again. 'It is false!' he said shortly. 'The prisoners
go through a regular court-martial, and no one could be shot at Morro without my orders, and
I have not given orders to shoot anyone since I have been here.'

"'Do you not think it very cruel that innocent women and children should be made to suffer
in time of war?'

"'No innocent women and children do suffer. It is only those who leave their homes and take
part in battle who are injured. It is only the rebels who destroy peaceful homes.'

"'It is reported,' I said, 'that thirty women are fighting under Maceo. Is this true?'

"'Yes,' replied the General. 'We took one woman yesterday. She was dressed in man's clothes
and was wielding a machete. She is now in Morro Castle. These women are fiercer than men. Many
of them are mulattoes. This particular woman was white.'

"'What will be her fate?'

"'She will go through the regular form of trial.'

"'Will no mercy be shown her?'

"'Mercy is always shown to a woman. While the law is the same for both sexes, there is a clause
which admits of mercy to a woman.'

"'There are several Cuban women insurgents in Morro and the Cabanas. Would your Excellency,'
I asked, 'allow me to visit them?'

"'No,' he said. 'There is a law that no foreigner shall enter our fortresses. It is a military
law. We can make no exceptions. You understand that I do not wish to be discourteous, senorita.'

"'Some of these women,' I continued, 'are said to be imprisoned for merely having Cuban flags
in their homes. Is this possible?'

"'Treason,' exclaimed the General, 'is always a crime, punishable by imprisonment.'

"'There is a newspaper correspondent at present in Morro. What was his crime?'

"The General shrugged his shoulders again. 'I know nothing about him,' he said. 'I think he
has been freed.'

"'Do you not think the life of a newspaper correspondent in Havana is at present a most unhappy
one?'

"'I think it must be, for they make me unhappy. If they were all like you it would be a pleasure.'

"'Is it true that thumbscrews are used to extort confessions from prisoners?'

"'Not by the Spaniards. Rebels use all these things, similar to those that were used in the
Inquisition tortures.'

"'What does your Excellency think of the Cubans as a race? Do you not think them progressive
and brave?'

"'With the progress of all nations the Cubans have progressed,' he replied. 'There are many
Cubans in sympathy with Spain, but this insurrection is a blot upon the Cuban race which nothing
can ever erase. It is a stain made with the blood of the slain and the tears of the women.
It injures the Cubans themselves more than any other.'"

In spite of Weyler's boasts when he assumed command of the Spanish forces in Cuba that he would
quickly put down the insurrection, his failure was as complete as that of General Campos had
been, and his recall was finally demanded. In his letter of protest to the home government he said:

"If the functions with which the government had entrusted me had been merely those of Governor
General of Cuba, I should have hastened to resign. But the twofold character of my mission
and my duty as commander-in-chief in the face of the enemy prevent my tendering a resignation.

"Nevertheless, although I can rely upon the absolute, unconditional support of the autonomist
and constitutional parties, as well as upon public opinion, this would be insufficient without
the confidence of the government, now more than ever necessary to me after the censure of which
I have been made the object by the members and journals of the Liberal party and by public
opinion in the United States, which latter is largely influenced by the former. This confidence
would be necessary to enable me to put an end to the war, which has already been virtually
concluded from our lines at Jucaro to Cape Antonio."

Senor Sagasta replied: "I thank you for your explanation and value your frankness, I wish to
assure you that the government recognizes your services and values them as they deserve, but
it thinks a change of policy, In order to succeed, requires that the authorities should be
at one with the ministry."

CHAPTER XXIV.

CUBA UNDER THE SCOURGE.

The Civil Guards and Their Crimes--Horrible Murder of Eight Innocent Men--A Man After Weyler's
Own Heart--How the Spanish Gain "Victories"--Life, Liberty and Property Sacrificed--The War
Not a Race War--Resistance to the Bitter End.

Cuba has been under martial law for over fifty years, and its enforcement by the Civil guards
(as the officers appointed by the Spanish government are called) has been responsible for innumerable
outrages against the lives and property of the inhabitants. These officials have been guilty
of every crime in the calendar, but protected by their positions they have escaped legal punishment,
and it has only been on occasions when, driven to desperation, the people have acted as judges
and executioners by taking the law into their own hands that any redress has been possible.

If for any reason these guards wish to persecute a man, the fact that he is a non-combatant
is no protection to him, nor to his family. They have been the means of adding to the ranks
of the insurrectionists, for frequently the man who has seen his relatives and friends shot
before his eyes, to satisfy some personal spite, or in order that some officer may get credit
for a battle, has left his fields and gone to strike a manly blow for his country and his home.

The story of eight peaceable white men, who were shot without trial, at Campo Florida, near
Havana, will serve as an example of the work of these fiends.

These poor fellows were arrested, their arms were tied, and they were taken to the police station.
One of them had just completed a coffin for a woman, and he was dragged to the station with
a rope about his neck. The next day, without even the pretense of a trial, they were taken
two at a time into a ravine near the fort, where a trench had been lately dug, and in spite
of the most pitiful pleas for mercy, they were shot down in cold blood by the cruel guards,
who seemed to take fiendish delight in their work of blood.

The following statement was seat by Cuban, patriots, with the request that it be given the
widest publicity possible, among the people of the United States:

"If the government that unhappily rules the destinies of this unfortunate country should be
true to the most rudimentary principles of justice and morality, Colonel Jull, who has been
recently appointed Military Governor of Matanzais province, should be in the galleys among
criminals. It is but a short time since he was relieved by General Martinez Campos of the military
command at Cienfuegos, as he had not once engaged any of the insurgent forces, but vented all
his ferocious instincts against innocent and inoffensive peasants.

"In Yaguaramas, a small town near Cienfuegos, he arrested as suspects and spies Mr. Antonio
Morejon, an honest and hard-working man, and Mr. Yguacio Chapi, who is well advanced in years,
and almost blind. Not being able to prove the charge against them, as they were innocent, he
ordered Major Moreno, of the Barcelona battalion, doing garrison duty at Yaguaramas, to kill
them with the machete and have them buried immediately. Major Moreno answered that he was a
gentleman, who had come to fight for the integrity of his country, and not to commit murder.
This displeased the colonel sorely, but, unfortunately, a volunteer sergeant, with six others,
was willing to execute the order of the colonel, and Morejon and Chapi were murdered without pity.

"The order of Jull was executed in the most cruel manner. It horrifies to even think of it.
Mr. Chapi, who knew the ways of Colonel Jull, on being awakened at three o'clock in the morning,
and notified by the guard that he and Morejon had to go out, suspected what was to come, and
told his companion to cry out for help as soon as they were taken out of the fort. They did
so, but those who were to execute the order of Jull were neither moved nor weakened in their
purpose.

A HORRIBLE SIGHT.

