The observations of I. K. upon this passage have obviously proceeded from a praiseworthy wish
to remove what has appeared to some minds to be inconsistent with that perfect truth which
they expect to be the result of divine inspiration. I. K. doubtless believes that God put it
into the heart of Joshua to utter a command for the miraculous continuance of daylight. But
why should he expect the inspiration to extend so far as to instruct Joshua respecting the
manner in which that continuance was to be brought about? Joshua was not to be the worker of
the miracle. It was to be wrought by Him who can as easily stop any part of the stupendous
machinery of His universe, as we can stop the wheels of a watch. Joshua was left to speak,
as he naturally would, in terms well fitted to make those around him understand, and tell others,
that the sun and moon, whom the defeated people notoriously worshipped, were so far from being
able to protect their worshippers, that they were made to promote their destruction at the
bidding of Joshua, whom God had commissioned to be the scourge of idolaters. And when the inspired
recorder of the miracle wrote that "the sun stood still," he told what the eyes saw, with the
same truth as I might say that the sun rose before seven this morning. Inspiration was not
bestowed to make men wise in astronomy, but wise unto salvation.

Those who think that the inspired penman should have said "the earth stood still," in order
to give a perfectly true account of the miracle, have need to be told, or would do well to
remember, that the stopping of the diurnal revolution of the earth, in order to keep the sun
and moon's apparent places the same, would not involve a cessation of its motion in its orbit,
still less a cessation of that great movement of the whole solar system, by which it is now
more than conjectured that the sun, the moon, and the earth are all carried on together at
the rate of above 3700 miles in an hour; so that to say "the earth stood still" would be liable
to the same objection, viz., that of not being astronomically true. I. K. carries his notion
of the "inseparable connexion" of the sun "with all planetary motion" too far, when he supposes
that a stoppage of the sun's motion round its own axis would have any effect on our planet.
The note he quotes from Kitto's Pictorial Bible is anything but satisfactory; and that from
Mant is childishly common-place. Good old Scott adverts with propriety to the Creator's power
to keep all things in their places, when the earth's revolution was stopped; but when he endeavoured
to illustrate it by the little effect of a ship's casting anchor when under full sail, he should
have consulted his friend Newton, who would have stopped such an imagination. Another commentator,
Holden, has argued, in spite of the Hebrew, that "in the midst of heaven" cannot mean mid-day,
having made up his mind that the moon can never be seen at that hour!

Such helpers do but make that difficult which, if received in its simplicity, need neither
perplex a child nor a philosopher.

H. W.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Ulm Manuscript (Vol. iii., p. 60.).--The late Bishop Butler's collection of manuscripts is
in the British Museum. I send you a copy of the bishop's own description of the MS. (which
should be called the St. Gall MS.), from the printed Catalogue, which was prepared for a sale
by auction, previous to the negociation with the trustees for the purchase of the collection
for the nation.

    "Acta Apostolorum. Epistolæ Pauli et Catholicæ cum Apocalypsi. Latinè.
    Sæculi IX. Upon Vellum. 4to.

The date of this most valuable and important manuscript is preserved by these verses:

