The head surgeon, who, by the way, was considered to be a virtual god amongst gods, came back
from the operating room smiling from ear to ear, announcing proudly that he had 'got all the
cancer'. But when I saw the result I thought he'd done a butcher's job. The victim couldn't
speak at all, nor eat except through a tube, and he looked grotesque. Worst, he had lost all
will to live. I thought the man would have been much better off to keep his body parts as long
as he could, and die a whole person able to speak, eating if he felt like it, being with friends
and family without inspiring a gasp of horror.

I was sure there must be better ways of dealing with degenerative conditions such as cancer,
but I had no idea what they might be or how to find out. There was no literature on medical
alternatives in the university library, and no one in the medical school ever hinted at the
possibility except when the doctors took jabs at chiropractors. Since no one else viewed the
situation as I did I started to think I might be in the wrong profession.

It also bothered me that patients were not respected, were not people; they were considered
a "case" or a "condition." I was frequently reprimanded for wasting time talking to patients,
trying to get acquainted. The only place in the hospital where human contact was acceptable
was the psychiatric ward. So I enjoyed the rotation to psychiatry for that reason, and decided
that I would like to make psychiatry or psychology my specialty.

By the time I finished nursing school, it was clear that the hospital was not for me. I especially
didn't like its rigid hierarchical system, where all bowed down to the doctors. The very first
week in school we were taught that when entering a elevator, make sure that the doctor entered
first, then the intern, then the charge nurse. Followed by, in declining order of status: graduate
nurses, third year nurses, second year nurses, first year nurses, then nursing aids, then orderlies,
then ward clerks, and only then, the cleaning staff. No matter what the doctor said, the nurse
was supposed to do it immediately without question--a very military sort of organization.

Nursing school wasn't all bad. I learned how to take care of all kinds of people with every
variety of illness. I demonstrated for myself that simple nursing care could support a struggling
body through its natural healing process. But the doctor-gods tended to belittle and denigrate
nurses. No wonder--so much of nursing care consists of unpleasant chores like bed baths, giving
enemas and dealing with other bodily functions.

I also studied the state-of-the-art science concerning every conceivable medical condition,
its symptoms, and treatment. At the university hospital nurses were required to take the same
pre-med courses as the doctors--including anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, and pharmacology.
Consequently, I think it is essential for holistic healers to first ground themselves in the
basic sciences of the body's physiological systems. There is also much valuable data in standard
medical texts about the digestion, assimilation, and elimination. To really understand illness,
the alternative practitioner must be fully aware of the proper functioning of the cardiovascular/pulmonary
system, the autonomic and voluntary nervous system, the endocrine system, plus the mechanics
and detailed nomenclature of the skeleton, muscles, tendons and ligaments. Also it is helpful
to know the conventional medical models for treating various disorders, because they do appear
to work well for some people, and should not be totally invalidated simply on the basis of
one's philosophical or religious viewpoints.

Many otherwise well-meaning holistic practitioners, lacking an honest grounding in science,
sometimes express their understanding of the human body in non-scientific, metaphysical terms
that can seem absurd to the well-instructed. I am not denying here that there is a spiritual
aspect to health and illness; I believe there are energy flows in and around the body that
can effect physiological functioning. I am only suggesting that to discuss illness without
hard science is like calling oneself a abstract artist because the painter has no ability to
even do a simple, accurate representational drawing of a human figure.

Though hospital life had already become distasteful to me I was young and poor when I graduated.
So after nursing school I buckled down and worked just long enough to save enough money to
obtain a masters degree in Clinical Psychology from the University of British Columbia. Then
I started working at Riverview Hospital in Vancouver, B.C., doing diagnostic testing, and group
therapy, mostly with psychotic people. At Riverview I had a three-year-long opportunity to
observe the results of conventional psychiatric treatment.

The first thing I noticed was the 'revolving door' phenomena. That is, people go out, and then
they're back in, over and over again, demonstrating that standard treatment--drugs, electroshock
and group therapy--had been ineffective. Worse, the treatments given at Riverside were dangerous,
often with long term side effects that were more damaging than the disease being treated. It
felt like nursing school all over again; in the core of my being I somehow knew there was a
better way, a more effective way of helping people to regain their mental health. Feeling like
an outsider, I started investigating the hospital's nooks and crannies. Much to my surprise,
in a back ward, one not open to the public, I noticed a number of people with bright purple skins.

I asked the staff about this and every one of the psychiatrists denied these patients existed.
This outright and widely-agreed-upon lie really raised my curiosity. Finally after pouring
through the journals in the hospital library I found an article describing psycho tropic-drug-induced
disruptions of melanin (the dark skin pigment). Thorazine, a commonly used psychiatric drug,
when taken in high doses over a long period of time would do this. Excess melanin eventually
was deposited in vital organs such as the heart and the liver, causing death.

I found it especially upsetting to see patients receive electroshock treatments. These violent,
physician-induced traumas did seem to disrupt dysfunctional thought patterns such as an impulse
to commit suicide, but afterwards the victim couldn't remember huge parts of their life or
even recall who they were. Like many other dangerous medical treatments, electroshock can save
life but it can also take life away by obliterating identity.

According the Hippocratic Oath, the first criteria of a treatment is that it should do no harm.
Once again I found myself trapped in a system that made me feel severe protest. Yet none of
these specialists or university professors, or academic libraries had any information about
alternatives. Worse, none of these mind-doctor-gods were even looking for better treatments.

