One evening, about a month after the events of the last chapter, Charlie was sitting near the
window reading, when, to his astonishment, he saw a lady open the garden gate and walk to the
door. It was Mrs. Greenwell, who lived in the large house with the beautiful garden, that was
Charlie's great admiration. He knew Mrs. Greenwell quite well, because she had often stopped
to speak to him, and ask him about his school, and the garden, and other things; indeed, she
was Charlie's favourite lady--he was sure there was not another in the place like her.

You must not think he was vain, if we tell you that he gave a hasty glance in the glass to
see if his hair was tidy, and his face and collar clean. He need scarcely have done so, for
it was seldom that either was untidy or dirty; he had so often heard his mother say it was
no disgrace to be seen in old clothes, so long as they were well brushed and mended, but it
was a very great disgrace to be seen with dirty hands and face, and unbrushed hair.

Charlie ran to the door, wondering very much what Mrs. Greenwell could have called about. She
spoke a few kind, pleasant words to him, and asked to see his mother. Charlie ushered her into
the best room, placed a chair for her with great state, closed the door quietly, and then hastened
upstairs to find his mother, taking two stairs at a time, missing one, and coming down on his
hands and knees in a lump.

"Dear me, Charlie," said Mrs. Heedman, who had come in at the back door, and was standing at
the foot of the stairs looking on in amazement at his extraordinary scrambling; "what ever
are you doing? is it a mouse?" remembering he had once chased a mouse upstairs with much the
same sort of noise.

"A mouse! no, mother," said Charlie, coming down very mildly. "I wanted to tell you that Mrs.
Greenwell is here, and waiting for you."

Mrs. Greenwell's errand was to ask if Charlie could be spared to attend a Bible class at her
house twice a week. As well as instruction in the Bible and catechism, she intended to read
instructive books to them on different subjects: natural history, travels in foreign lands,
English history, the lives of good and noble men who had risen from the working classes, and
on many other subjects that would be interesting and give them a taste for reading. Charlie
was younger than most of the boys she expected, but she knew he was more intelligent and thoughtful
than the generality of boys of his age, principally because he had such good home training.

Mrs. Heedman very gladly agreed for him to attend regularly. As for Charlie himself, his delight
knew no bounds, especially when he heard that they were all to have tea, and spend the evening
at Mrs. Greenwell's the next day. The moment she had left and the door was closed, Charlie
broke into a dance of triumph round the room that would have done credit to a wild Indian,
and kept it up so long that Jumper became seriously concerned: he stood at a safe distance,
barking, as if asking for an explanation, or expostulating with his master; but Charlie only
snapped his fingers at him, and went on with his dance. Poor Jumper thought it was an order
to sit up, and sat up accordingly, but soon finding his mistake out he dropped his fore-feet
disconsolately. At last, as if a bright thought had struck him, he made a sudden rush at poor
puss, who was sitting very upright with her tail over her toes, gazing innocently at the fire,
and I am sorry to say he caught her rather savagely by the ear. Jumper knew puss to be his
own particular enemy, and whenever anything went wrong he always seemed to conclude that she
must be at the bottom of it.

This brought the dance of triumph to an end, much to Mrs. Heedman's satisfaction.

You should have seen Charlie the next day, when he started for Mrs. Greenwell's, in his best
suit, a shining white collar, and new necktie; his brown hair arranged in his best style, and
his bright face lit up with happy expectation. It was the first time he had ever formally gone
"out to tea."

It would take two or three chapters to tell you all that Charlie saw and thought and heard
on that eventful evening, but we must be content with a hasty sketch.

When Charlie first went into the room with its beautiful pictures, its handsome furniture,
its bright lights, and many strange faces, he felt quite dazzled; but Mrs. Greenwell came up
to him, and taking him by the hand, led him up to a boy about two years older than himself,
who was lying on a couch. "This is my son," she said, kindly; "he is quite anxious to know
you, Charlie, so you had better sit down beside him." Harry Greenwell shook hands heartily,
and made room for him, but did not rise from the couch.

"He must be very proud or very idle," thought Charlie; and yet, as he looked admiringly at
him, he felt that he did not look as if he were either one or the other. Charlie had seen him
out driving sometimes with his mother, but had never been close to him before. Harry lay there
quite unconscious of Charlie's opinion and admiration, his delicate, expressive features full
of animation, and his eyes sparkling with pleasure as he watched the boys talking and looking
about them. He had begged very hard that they might come into the drawing-room. Harry liked
to have pictures and ornaments and beautiful things round him, and he thought they would enjoy
it too.

"How happy he must be," thought Charlie, "in this beautiful house, with servants to do everything
for him, a carriage to ride in, and I dare say he chooses his own clothes, and can have whatever
he likes for dinner! It must be very nice to be him," thought Charlie, rather enviously.

Just then a move was made for the room where tea was prepared. "You go on, Charlie," said Harry,
in a kind tone; "don't wait for me; I'll follow." Charlie happened to glance back.

Harry Greenwell was lame.

He told Charlie later in the evening how it happened. The two boys were standing together at
a small table apart from the rest; Harry, who had taken a great fancy to Charlie, was showing
some of his drawings. There was genuine admiration in Charlie's face and tone as he exclaimed,
"How splendid they are, Master Harry! They must have taken you a long time to do."

"Well, yes," answered Harry; "you see I have had a good deal of quiet time to occupy ever since
my hip was hurt; I haven't been able to play at any outdoor games like other boys, or even
to walk much. You can't think how thankful I am that I have a taste for drawing; one cannot
always be reading, and it makes the time pass so pleasantly."

"Was it long since? How did it happen?" asked Charlie, full of sympathy, and wondering almost
that Harry could be thankful for anything under such circumstances.

"It was about three years ago, when I was eleven years old. I was out riding; something startled
the pony, and he threw me. You see my leg is not deformed," holding it out as he spoke, "but
I walk lame; the doctor says I must rest well now, and not overtax my strength, or I shall
never be any better. It pains me a good deal even now sometimes."

"Did you always feel as--as quiet about it as you do now?" asked Charlie, rather at a loss
for the right word.

"No," said Harry; "for a whole year all sorts of wicked, bitter thoughts were in my heart.
I thought God was behaving hardly and unkindly to me. I wanted to die, rather than live to
be a cripple. I almost hated people who were well and strong. When mamma had visitors I kept
out of the way. Sometimes I stayed in my own room for weeks together. I couldn't bear any one
to see me. It was a great trouble to mamma." Harry was carried away by the recollections of
that sad time, and had spoken in a low rapid tone, more to himself than to Charlie.

The boys turned over the contents of a portfolio in silence for a few moments.

Harry placed before Charlie a beautiful engraving of our Saviour on the cross. "He bore all
that for me, and I am trying to bear my pain willingly and patiently for His sake, because
I love Him; and I know He loves me, and helps me to bear my pain, and would not let me suffer
it at all if it was not for my own good in the end," said Harry.

I have let you listen to this little bit of quiet talk between Charlie and Harry that you may
determine, as Charlie did, to try to follow Harry's example, not to be discontented and impatient
in sickness, or trial of any kind; to be often thinking of, and feeling thankful for, the blessings
God has granted you; to love the Lord Jesus, and trust Him.

You must not suppose that the evening at Mrs. Greenwell's was passed in talking only. After
tea, which was thoroughly enjoyed by the boys, they looked at pictures, books, shells, and
other things. Mrs. Greenwell had so many little histories to tell about them, and talked so
pleasantly, that the boys enjoyed it very much; but the great wonder and attraction was a microscope,
or "magnifying glass," as Charlie called it.

Many of the boys had never seen or even heard of one before, and it puzzled them very much
to be told that what looked to them very like a small lobster's claw was the foot of a fly.

"What beautiful little feathers!" exclaimed one boy.

"You know the sort of dust that sticks to your fingers if you touch the wings of a moth or
a butterfly, don't you?" asked Harry.

"Yes, sir,"' answered the boy.

"Then that is some of it, magnified; the wings are covered with those beautiful little feathers,
although we cannot distinguish them without the microscope."

But I cannot attempt to tell you one half of the wonders that the microscope revealed to them
that night, or the lessons it taught them of the power and wisdom of the Creator. Mrs. Greenwell
pointed out to them the immense inferiority of man's best and most careful work when compared
with the simplest work of God, A piece of delicately woven silk, of the finest texture, that
looked perfect to the eye, when placed under the microscope appeared rough, coarse, and uneven--rather
like a common door-mat, in fact; but the wing of a fly, the hair of a mouse, the eye of an
insect, the scale of a fish, the dust of a moth's wing, the leaf of a plant--anything made
by God, and owing nothing to the hand of man--the more it was magnified, the more beauties
you discovered. Examine by the microscope the humblest and most minute of God's creations,
and you will always find beauty, order, and perfection.

CHAPTER VII.

A SAD BIRTHDAY.

It is Charlie's birthday: two years have passed away since the great going out to tea at Mrs.
Greenwell's, and he is now fourteen years old. It is a very quiet and a very sad birthday for
Charlie. His father is ill--his good, kind father. This illness had been coming on for the
last six months. Many of his neighbours and fellow-workmen had noticed for some time that "John
Heedman had a bad look," and would shake their heads and look significantly at each other as
he passed by, with his slow gait, his stooping shoulders, and loud, hollow cough, now almost
constant, and more painful than ever. Often when Charlie awoke in the night he would hear his
father pacing the room, unable to rest, or even lie down. The first time he heard him, he thought
"Father must be ill; he has gone downstairs," and springing out of bed, he crept lightly down
to see what was the matter.

The shutters were thrown open, and the blind pulled up to the top. Charlie saw it was a calm,
still night, and that every part of the sky visible from the window was spangled with a countless
multitude of brilliant stars. His father stood at the window--he was leaning slightly forward--with
clasped hands, and gazing up with eager, questioning eyes. Charlie felt that he was praying,
and crept softly back. He sat down at the foot of the stairs to wait, feeling cold and shivering,
and with a strange fear at his heart. He had not sat many minutes when he heard his father
moving; then he called softly at the door, "Are you ill, father? can I do anything for you?"

"Why, Charlie, how is this?" said his father, taking him by the hand and bringing him into
the room.

"I heard you down here, and I was afraid you were ill. Are you ill?" asked Charlie, anxiously.

"Not altogether ill, perhaps, Charlie, and yet not well. My cough is very bad to-night, I can
get no rest; when I lie down I feel as if I should be suffocated. But how cold you are, my
boy! run away to bed," he said, trying to speak more cheerfully, "or we shall be having you
laid up next."

The cheerful tone did not deceive Charlie; he clung to him. "Father, you are worse than you
say--tell me all; do not treat me like a little child; I am nearly fourteen years old."

His father stood for a moment undecided, then he sat down and drew Charlie to him and told
him all; how he had felt lately that his cough was getting worse and worse, and his whole frame
weaker; that he was afraid some disease of the lungs had taken a firm hold, and that he intended
to take a rest the next week and see a doctor if he did not feel any better. "You must not
think I am going to die at once," he said, feeling Charlie tremble; "even if I have disease
of the lungs I may live a long while yet, if it is God's will. I want you to be a brave boy,
and not let your mother see you going about grieving and looking sad, and adding to her sorrow,
but do all you can to help and comfort her. If you love me, you will try to do this." Charlie
promised to try, and after a few more words of comfort and encouragement John Heedman persuaded
him to go to bed. "My dear boy," he said, "you know that your love is a great happiness to
me, but you must not come down again if you hear me up in the night; it will make me unhappy
if I think I keep you awake."

After this, although Charlie often heard his father of a night, he never came down again; but
he crept softly out of bed and knelt down and prayed for him. He asked God to grant--if it
were His will--that his father might get better; if not, that He would help him to bear his
pain, for Jesus Christ's sake. It was not at all a grand, well-worded prayer, but it was simple,
earnest, and heartfelt--just the sort of prayer God loves to listen to.

On the morning of Charlie's birthday, about a fortnight after that night he went down to his
father, John Heedman was quite unable to go out to his work; he had been obliged to give up
at last, and the doctor was called in. When Charlie was sent out of the room until the doctor's
visit was over, he rushed out of the house, unable to bear the suspense, and wandering down
to the beach, he lay down to think with his face hidden in his cap, as if to shut out the too
joyous sunlight.

As he listened to the low, mournful surging of the waves, all his past life seemed to rise
up before him; he remembered with bitter self-reproach how ill he had repaid the love and kindness
of those dear ones at home; how often he had caused his mother hours of anxiety by his carelessness
and procrastination; for Charlie had not altogether succeeded in conquering his great fault;
how selfish he had been in every way. He remembered with shame how he had begged and worried
for things without caring or thinking whether they could afford it; he had denied himself nothing,
and now all this expense of his father's illness was coming upon them. If they had not taken
him to keep when he was friendless, they would have had plenty of money saved, and would have
wanted for nothing.

As Charlie thought of all this, he determined that he would be a burden to them no longer,
he would try to earn some money; there were boys far younger than himself, he knew, at work,
and if he only earned a small sum at first, it would help. Full of this determination he made
his way home. The doctor was just leaving as he went in, and Charlie heard from his mother
that he held out no hope of his father's recovery; the disease had gone too far. He was on
no account to go down the mine again, even if he fancied he felt strong enough; the impure
air had already aggravated the disease. The doctor had said that if he took great care of himself
he might, perhaps, be spared to them for some time.

Charlie's heart was too full then to speak to his father; he went into his own room, shut the
door, and stood for a moment as if uncertain what to do. "If only Mrs. Greenwell had been at
home," he thought, "I could have told her all about it, and she would have advised me."

"Tell it to God, He is always to be found, and can help as well as advise," something within
him seemed to whisper. He listened to the voice, and kneeling down, poured out all his trouble,
and sorrow, and anxiety, asking God to help him for Jesus Christ's sake. He then got up, bathed
his face in cold water, for his eyes were swollen with tears, and started off to the chemist's
with the doctor's prescription that his mother gave him.

"Wait for the medicine," she said, "and bring it home with you."

He was waiting in the shop until it was ready, and turning over all sorts of plans for the
future in his mind, when one of Mrs. Greenwell's servants came in. "Is that you, Charlie Scott?"
she exclaimed. "Master Harry was just inquiring after you, if you had been at the house lately."

"How long have they been at home?" he asked in surprise.

"About two hours; they came this morning."

Charlie picked up the medicine that the chemist had placed before him, and set off home as
hard as he could run.

"I'm just going to Mrs. Greenwell's, mother dear," he said, giving it in at the door; "I'll
soon be back."

Harry Greenwell saw in a moment by Charlie's face that he was in trouble, and asked anxiously
what was the matter. He liked Charlie, and from the first they had been as close friends as
the difference in their station and education would allow. Charlie always went to Mrs. Greenwell
and "Master Harry" when he was in trouble; indeed, Mrs. Greenwell had succeeded in making all
the boys who went to her Bible class feel that she was their friend, and interested in all
concerning them; and many of them were thankful for her advice and kind, encouraging words,
when they were in trouble or anxiety.

Charlie told them of his father's illness, of his own selfishness, his repentance, his self-reproach,
and his anxiety to do something to help at home.

"My dear boy," said Mrs. Greenwell, "I am so glad you have come to me; but I trust you have
already laid all this before your great Friend and Father in heaven."

"Oh yes, ma'am," answered Charlie; "but I feel so ashamed of having so often to ask God to
forgive me; I feel almost afraid that He will be tired of me, and refuse to listen."

"We might be afraid of that," said Mrs. Greenwell, "if we asked forgiveness in our own unworthy
names--if the Saviour had never died for us. But as you know, He came into the world to save
sinners. He gave Himself for our sins. 'He was wounded for our transgressions: He was bruised
for our iniquities, and with His stripes we are healed.' 'The blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth
us from all sin.' He has said, 'Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in My name, He will give
it you;' and if we doubt His word we are lost. If we repent, and are sincerely sorry for our
sin, and ask God to forgive us, for Jesus Christ's sake, He will do so, no matter how often
we go to Him. It is Satan who tries to put hard thoughts of God into our hearts. And now, in
your trouble, Charlie, you do not know how the Saviour loves you and sympathizes with you.
He knows what it is to suffer. He is waiting at the door of your heart, longing to come in
and help and comfort you. He says, 'Behold, I stand at the door and knock;' do not refuse Him
entrance, Charlie."

Tears stood in Charlie's eyes when Mrs. Greenwell finished speaking, tears of thankfulness
for such a Saviour, and of gratitude to Mrs. Greenwell.

When they began to talk of what Charlie could do to help at home, and earn some money, Harry
asked him what he would like to do best.

"I should best like to be amongst engines, and machines, and those things," said Charlie. "Father
meant me to be an engineer--a working engineer, if all had gone on well; he meant to apprentice
me. But, of course, that is all over now," he said, with a sigh; "it would be so long before
I could earn anything like good wages."

"Yes, indeed," said Mrs. Greenwell, turning over all sorts of plans in her mind. "You see,"
she went on, "errand boys get so little, and tradesmen will not give wages to inexperienced
boys for shop work, when they can get apprentices. Haven't you thought of anything yourself?"
she asked, after a pause.

"There's the pit," answered Charlie, with a sigh; "I could get six shillings a week, as trapper,
directly. Joe Denton gets more than double that now."

"Oh, Charlie!" exclaimed Harry, "surely you will not have to go down those terrible mines?"

Mrs. Greenwell reminded Harry that was not the way to help Charlie. "I know he will feel it
hard at first if he goes; but still I am sure he is a brave boy and will not shrink from it,
if he feels it to be his duty. You would not have him idling about at home, thinking only of
his own comfort, and picking and choosing his work, when his father, who has done so much for
him, is suffering from a lingering illness, and wanting so many little comforts that cannot
be bought without money?"

After a good deal of thought, Mrs. Greenwell said, "I believe, Charlie, it is the only thing
for you. It will be a great trial to you, I know, to give up all your dreams about engines
and machines, and being a clever man, and getting rich, and having instead to go down into
a dark, dreary coal-pit day after day, to a life of hard toil; but it appears, as far as we
can see, to be God's will and your duty. You remember those words of our Saviour,--'If any
will come after Me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross and follow Me.' We have all
a cross of some kind to bear, and this is your cross, Charlie; take it up patiently, bravely,
and willingly. He will not give you more than you can bear. Trust Him. There is no doubt some
great blessing is in store for you, if you do not shrink from this trial of your faith."

Charlie had two or three very busy days before Saturday night came. As soon as he had decided
to go down the mine, he went to a fellow-workman of his father's, Hudson Brownlee, and asked
him if he would let him go down with him the first time. Brownlee was a kind-hearted man, and
took an interest in Charlie. He promised to see about his work for him, and call on Monday
morning at ten o'clock. Charlie kept it quite a secret from his father and mother until Saturday
night, then, putting on some of his oldest clothes that he had routed out ready for Monday,
and taking his father's lamp in his hand, that he used in the mine, he walked into the room
where they were, made a bow, twisted himself round in front of them, and with a cheery face
and merry tone said, "Do I look like work, father? shall I do?" At first they looked at him
in amazement, but gradually his meaning came upon them.

"My dear boy," said Mrs. Heedman, laying down her knitting, "what do you mean?"

"I mean this," said he, putting down his lamp, and taking each of their hands in his, "I am
not going to be an idle, selfish fellow any longer. It's all settled and done. I am going down
the pit on Monday, with Hudson Brownlee, and I shall have six shillings to bring home on Saturday
night; think of that, mother, and I shall soon get twice as much. Father shall want for nothing."

Tears of love and pleasure stood in John Heedman's eyes, for he knew what it must have cost
Charlie to make up his mind to it. "You know how happy it makes your mother and myself to hear
you speak so bravely and gratefully," he said; "but are you quite sure, Charlie, that you have
counted the cost? Take another week to think of it; thank God, we are not likely to want for
some time, there is a little store put by. Remember it is a hard and dreary life to a young
ambitious spirit; think it over again."

"I have thought of it, father, ever since the doctor came to see you on Tuesday; it is quite
settled. Mrs. Greenwell and Master Harry both seem to think it is my duty. They say I can serve
God the same, and I shall be just as dear to Him as if I was ever such a rich engineer; and
no honest work is a disgrace."

"That is true," his father began; he was going to say something else, but Charlie seemed anxious
to finish his say.

"Master Harry says, father, I must think of what I have been taught, and try to do my duty
in that state of life to which it has pleased God to call me. He says if I am obliged to work
with my hands, I can work with my head too. Master Harry has offered to give me lessons in
the morning before I go to work, and he will lend me books to read, and I shall have that to
think about whilst I am down the pit. It won't seem half so dreary when I have busy, pleasant
thoughts. And, father, Mrs. Greenwell says I have had such good training at home, and been
able to get to Sunday school and Bible class so regularly, that I ought to be quite a missionary
amongst the boys I shall meet, who have not had such opportunities."

Application was made for him to be engaged at the pit, and it was agreed that Charlie should
begin his new duties on Monday.

CHAPTER VIII.

DOWN THE MINE.

All boys and girls know the pleasure of drawing up to a nice, bright, sparkling fire on a cold
winter night. They give little shivers of comfort, and say, "What ever should we do without
a good fire, such weather as this?" But we dare say very few give a thankful thought to the
miner, whose hard toil has procured this comfort for them.

Perhaps some who read this do not live in a mining country, and have not read or heard much
about coal mines. If so, we think they will like to follow Charlie as he goes to his work on
Monday morning. Hudson Brownlee called, as he promised, but we are sorry to say Charlie kept
him waiting full five minutes whilst he searched for a comforter. His mother had told him to
get it ready on Saturday night, but he put off until Monday morning, then he put off until
he got back from Harry Greenwell's. Harry kept him longer than he expected, and he came tearing
along just as Hudson Brownlee reached the door; then the comforter had to be found. At last
they started. When Charlie stood near the great, dark, gaping mouth of the pit, and remembered
that he had to go down there, he certainly felt as he afterwards described it, "very queer"--not
afraid, oh no, but queer.

