The mode of computing interest among the ancient Greeks appears to have been in many respects
the same as that now prevailing in India, which has probably undergone no change from a very
remote period. Precisely the same term, too, is used to denote the rate of interest, namely,
[Greek: tokos] in Greek and taka or tuka in the languages of Western India. [Greek: Tokoe epidekatoi]
in Greek, and dus také in Hindostanee, respectively denote ten per cent. At Athens, the rate
of interest might be calculated either by the month or by the year--each being expressed by
different terms (Böckh. Pub. Econ. of Athens, i. 165.). Precisely the same system prevails
here. Pono taka, that is, three quarters of a taka, denotes ¾ per cent. per month. Nau také,
that is, nine také, denotes nine per cent. per annum. For the Greek mode of reckoning interest
by the month, see Smith's Dictionary of Greek and Roman Antiquities, p. 524. At Athens, the
year, in calculating interest, was reckoned at 360 days (Böckh, i. 183.). Here also, in all
native accounts-current, the year is reckoned at 360 days.

The word [Greek: tokos], as applied to interest, was understood by the Greeks themselves to
be derived from [Greek: tiktô], "to produce," i.e. money begetting money; the offspring or
produce of money lent out. Whether its identity may not be established with the word in current
use for thousands of years in this country to express precisely the same meaning, is a question
I should like to see discussed {436} by some of your correspondents. The word taka signifies
any thing pressed or stamped, anything on which an impression is made hence a coin; and is
derived from the Sanscrit root tak, to press, to stamp, to coin: whence, tank, a small coin;
and tank-sala, a mint; and (query) the English word token, a piece of stamped metal given to
communicants. Many of your readers will remember that it used to be a common practice in England
for copper coins, representing a half-penny, penny, &c., stamped with the name of the issuer,
and denominated "tokens," to be issued in large quantities by shopkeepers as a subsidiary currency,
and received at their shop in payment of goods, &c. May not ticket, defined by Johnson, "a
token of any right or debt upon the delivery of which admission is granted, or a claim acknowledged,"
and tick, score or trust, (to go on tick), proceed from the same root?

J.S.

Bombay.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON THE CULTIVATION OF GEOMETRY IN LANCASHIRE.

If our Queries on this subject be productive of no other result than that of eliciting the
able and judicious analysis subsequently given by MR. WILKINSON (Vol. ii., p. 57.), they will
have been of no ordinary utility. The silent early progress of any strong, moral, social, or
intellectual phenomenon amongst a large mass of people, is always difficult to trace: for it
is not thought worthy of record at the time, and before it becomes so distinctly marked as
to attract attention, even tradition has for the most part died away. It then becomes a work
of great difficulty, from the few scattered indications in print (the books themselves being
often so rare[1] that "money will not purchase them"), with perhaps here and there a stray
letter, or a metamorphosed tradition, to offer even a probable account of the circumstances.
It requires not only an intimate knowledge of the subject-matter which forms the groundwork
of the inquiry, both in its antecedent and cotemporary states, and likewise in its most improved
state at the present time; it also requires an analytical mind of no ordinary powers, to separate
the necessary from the probable; and these again from the irrelevant and merely collateral.

MR. WILKINSON has shown himself to possess so many of the qualities essential to the historian
of mathematical science, that we trust he will continue his valuable researches in this direction
still further.

It cannot be doubted that MR. WILKINSON has traced with singular acumen the manner in which
the spirit of geometrical research was diffused amongst the operative classes, and the class
immediately above them--the exciseman and the country schoolmaster. Still it is not to be inferred,
that even these classes did not contain a considerable number of able geometers anterior to
the period embraced in his discussion. The Mathematical Society of Spitalfields existed more
than half a century before the Oldham Society was formed. The sameness of pursuit, combined
with the sameness of employment, would rather lead us to infer that geometry was transplanted
from Spitalfields to Manchester or Oldham. Simpson found his way from the country to London;
and some other Simpson as great as Thomas (though less favourably looked upon by fortune in
furnishing stimulus and opportunity) might have migrated from London to Oldham. Or, again,
some Lancashire weaver might have adventured to London (a very common case with country artisans
after the expiration of apprenticeship); and, there having acquired a taste for mathematics,
as well as improvement in his mechanical skill, have returned into the country, and diffused
the knowledge and the tastes he took home with him amongst his fellows. The very name betokens
Jeremiah Ainsworth to have been of a Lancashire family.

But was Ainsworth really the earliest mathematician of his district? Or, was he merely the
first that made any figure in print as a correspondent of the mathematical periodicals of that
day? This question is worthy of MR. WILKINSON's further inquiry; and probably some light may
be thrown upon it by a careful examination of the original Ladies' and Gentleman's Diaries
of the period. In the reprints of these works, only the names, real or assumed, of those whose
contributions were actually printed, are inserted--not the list of all correspondents.

Now one would be led to suppose that the study of mathematics was peculiarly suited to the
daily mode of life and occupation of these men. Their employment was monotonous; their life
sedentary; and their minds were left perfectly free from any contemplative purpose they might
choose. Algebraic investigation required writing: but the weaver's hands being engaged he could
not write. A diagram, on the contrary, might lie before him, and be carefully studied, whilst
his hands and feet may be performing their functions with an accuracy almost instinctive. Nay
more: an exceedingly complicated diagram which has grown up gradually as the result of investigations
successively {437} made, may be carried in the memory and become the subject of successful
peripatetic contemplation. On this point a decided experimental opinion is here expressed:
but were further instances asked for, they may be found in Stewart, Monge, and Chasles, all
of whom possessed this power in an eminent degree. Indeed, without it, all attempts to study
the geometry of space (even the very elements of descriptive geometry, to say nothing of the
more recondite investigations of the science) would be entirely unproductive. It is, moreover,
a power capable of being acquired by men of average intellect without extreme difficulty; and
that even to the extent of "mentally seeing" the constituent parts of figures which have never
been exhibited to the eye either by drawings or models.

That such men, if once imbued with a love for geometry, and having once got over the drudgery
of elementary acquisition, should be favourably situated for its cultivation, follows as a
matter of course. The great difficulty lay in finding sufficient stimulus for their ambition,
good models for their imitation, and adequate facilities for publishing the results at which
they had arrived. The admirable history of the contents of their scanty libraries, given by
MR. WILKINSON, leaves nothing more to be said on that head; except, perhaps, that he attributes
rather more to the influences of Emerson's writings than I am able to do.[2] As regards their
facilities for publication, these were few, the periods of publication being rarely shorter
than annual; and amongst so many competitors, the space which could be allotted to each (even
to "the best men") was extremely limited. Yet, contracted as the means of publication were,
the spirit of emulation did something; from the belief that insertion was an admitted test
of superiority, it was as much an object of ambition amongst these men to solve the "prize
question" as it was by philosophers of higher social standing to gain the "prize" conferred
by the Académie des Sciences, or any other continental society under the wing of Royalty, at
the same period. The prize (half a dozen or a dozen copies of the work itself) was not less
an object of triumph, than a Copley or a Royal medal is in our own time amongst the philosophers
of the Royal Society.

These men, from similarity of employment and inevitable contiguity of position, were brought
into intercourse almost of necessity, and the formation of a little society (such as the "Oldham")
the natural result--the older and more experienced men taking the lead in it. At the same time,
there can be little doubt that the Spitalfields Society was the pattern after which it was
formed; and there can be as little doubt that one or more of its founders had resided in London,
and "wrought" in the metropolitan workshops. Could the records of the "Mathematical Society
of London" (now in the archives of the Royal Astronomical Society) be carefully examined, some
light might be thrown upon this question. A list of members attending every weekly meeting,
as well as of visitors, was always kept; and these lists (I have been informed) have been carefully
preserved. No doubt any one interested in the question would, upon application to the secretary
(Professor De Morgan), obtain ready access to these documents.

The preceding remarks will, in some degree, furnish the elements of an answer to the inquiry,
"Why did geometrical speculation take so much deeper root amongst the Lancashire weavers, than
amongst any other classes of artisans?" The subject was better adapted to the weaver's mechanical
life than any other that could be named; for even the other favourite subjects, botany and
entomology, required the suspension of their proper employment at the loom. The formation of
the Oldham Society was calculated to keep alive the aspiration for distinction, as well as
to introduce novices into the arcanium of geometry. There was generous co-operation, and there
was keen competition,--the sure stimulants to eminent success. The unadulterated love of any
intellectual pursuit, apart from the love of fame or the hope of emolument, is a rare quality
in all stages of society. Few men, however, seem to have realised Basil Montagu's idea of being
governed by "a love of excellence rather than the pride of excelling," so closely as the Lancashire
geometers of that period--uncultivated as was the age in which they lived, rude as was the
society in which their lives were passed, and selfish as the brutal treatment received in those
days by mechanics from their employers, was calculated to render them. They were surrounded,
enveloped, by the worst social and moral influences; yet, so far as can now be gathered from
isolated remarks in the periodicals of the time, they may be held up as a pattern worthy of
the imitation of the philosophers of our own time in respect to the generosity and strict honour
which marked their intercourse with one another.

Mathematicians seldom grow up solitarily in any locality. When one arises, the absence of all
external and social incentives to the study can only betoken an inherent propensity and constitutional
fitness for it. Such a man is too much in earnest to keep his knowledge to himself, or to wish
to stand alone. He makes disciples,--he aids, encourages, guides them. His own researches are
fully communicated; and this with a prodigality proportioned to his own great resources. He
feels no jealousy of competition, and is always gratified by seeing others successful. Thus
such bodies of men are created in wonderfully short periods by the magnanimous labours of one
ardent {438} spirit. These are the men that found societies, schools, sects; wherever one unselfish
and earnest man settles down, there we invariably find a cluster of students of his subject,
that often lasts for ages. Take, for instance, Leeds. There we see that John Ryley created,
at a later period, the Yorkshire school of geometers; comprising amongst its members such men
as Swale, Whitley, Ryley ("Sam"), Gawthorp, Settle, and John Baines. This, too, was in a district
in many respects very analogous to Lancashire, but especially in the one to which the argument
more immediately relates:--it was a district of weavers, only substituting wool for cotton,
as cotton had in the other case been substituted for the silk of Spitalfields.

We see nothing like this in the agricultural districts; neither do we in those districts where
the ordinary manufacturing operations themselves require the employment of the head as well
as the hands and feet. With the exception, indeed, of the schoolmaster, and the exciseman,
and the surveyor, there are comparatively few instances of persons whose employment was not
strictly sedentary having devoted their intellectual energies to mathematics, independent of
early cultivation. To them the subject was more or less professional, and their devotion to
it was to be expected--indeed far more than has been realised. It is professional now to a
larger and more varied class of men, and of course there is a stronger body of non-academic
mathematicians now than at any former period. At the same time it may be doubted whether there
be even as many really able men devoted to science purely and for its own sake in this country
as there were a century ago, when science wore a more humble guise.

Combining what is here said with the masterly analysis which MR. WILKINSON has given of the
books which were accessible to these men, it appears that we shall be able to form a correct
view on the subject of the Lancashire geometers. Of course documentary evidence would be desirable--it
would certainly be interesting too.

To such of your readers as have not seen the mathematical periodicals of that period, the materials
for which were furnished by these men, it may be sufficient to state that the "NOTES AND QUERIES"
is conceived in the exact spirit of those works. The chief difference, besides the usual subject-matter,
consists in the greater formality and "stiffness" of those than of this; arising, however,
of necessity out of the specific and rigid character of mathematical research in itself, and
the more limited range of subjects that were open to discussion.

The one great defect of the researches of those men was, that they were conducted in a manner
so desultory, and that the subjects themselves were often so isolated, that there can seldom
be made out more than a few dislocated fragments of any one subject of inquiry whatever. Special
inquiries are prosecuted with great vigour and acumen; but we look in vain for system, classification,
or general principles. This, however, is not to be charged to them as a scientific vice, peculiarly:--for,
in truth, it must be confessed to be a vice, not only too common, but almost universal amongst
English geometers; and even in the geometry of the Greeks themselves, the great object appears
to have been "problem-solving" rather than the deduction and arrangement of scientific truths.
The modern French geometers have, however, broken this spell; and it is not too much too hope
that we shall not be long ere we join them in the development of the systems they have already
opened; and, moreover, add to the list some independent topics of our own. The chief dangers
to which we are in this case exposed are, classification with incomplete data, and drawing
inferences upon trust. It cannot be denied, at all events, that some of our French cotemporaries
have fallen into both these errors; but the abuse of a principle is no argument for our not
using it, though its existence (or even possible existence) should be a strong incentive to
caution.

These remarks have taken a more general form than it is usual to give in your pages. As, however,
it is probable that many of your readers may feel an interest in a general statement of a very
curious intellectual phenomenon, I am not without a hope that, though so far removed from the
usual topics discussed in the work, they will not be altogether unacceptable or useless.

PEN-AND-INK.

[Footnote 1: Although at one period of our life we took great pains to make a collection of
the periodicals which, during the last century, were devoted wholly or partially to mathematics,
yet we could never even approximate towards completeness. It was not, certainly, from niggardly
expenditure. Indeed, it is doubtful whether a complete set exists, or could even be formed now.]

[Footnote 2: See Philosophical Magazine, Sept. 1850.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR NOTES.

Sermon's Pills.--In Guizot's Life of Monk, Duke of Albermarle, translated and edited by the
present Lord Wharncliffe, it is stated (p. 313.) that when the Duke was suffering from the
diseases which afterwards proved fatal to him,

    "One of his neighbours, at New Hall, formerly an officer in his army,
    mentioned to him certain pills said to be sovereign against the dropsy,
    which were sold at Bristol by one Sermon, who had also served under his
    orders in Scotland as a private soldier. This advice and remedy from
    ancient comrades, inspired the old general with more confidence than
    the skill of the physicians. He sent for Sermon's pills, and found
    himself so much recovered by them for a time, that he returned to
    London at the close of the summer."

Having "found," in the newspapers of the day, the following paragraphs illustrative of this
passage in the great General's history, I think them sufficiently interesting "to make a Note of."

    "London, July 13. 1669.--His Grace the Lord General, after a long and
    dangerous distemper, is (God {439} be praised) perfectly recovered and
    restored to his former health, to the Great rejoycing of their
    Majesties and the whole court, by the assistance of one William Sermon,
    of Bristol, whose pills have had that excellent success as to restore
    him perfectly to his sleep and appetite, and wholly abate all the
    symptoms of his disease. Yesterday his Grace, as being perfectly cured,
    dismissed his physicians from their farther attendance."

    "London, July 17. 1669.--The 13th instant, Mr. William Sermon, the
    practitioner in physick, who so happily performed that excellent cure
    upon his Grace the Duke of Albermarle, was presented to His Majesty in
    St. James's Park, where he had the honor to kiss His Majesty's hand,
    and to receive his thanks for that good service."

    September 9. 1669.--"Advertisement: These are to give notice that
    William Sermon, Dr. of Physick, a person so eminently famous for his
    cure of his Grace the Duke of Albermarle, is removed from Bristol to
    London, and may be spoken with every day, especially in the forenoon,
    at his house in West Harding Street, in Goldsmith's Rents, near Three
    Legged Alley, between Fetter Lane and Shooe Lane."

Can any of your correspondents give an account of the subsequent career of Dr. Sermon?

[Greek: D]

An Infant Prodigy (Vol. ii., p. 101.).--There are parallel cases in the hagioloists (Hist.
de l'Eglise Gallicane, par Longueval, tom. iii. p. 430. 1782):

"S. Amand après cette mission étant repassé dans la Gaule, eut bientôt occasion de montrer
l'intrépidité de son zèle ... L'amour des femmes, écueil fatal des jeunes princes, fit en peu
de temps oublier à Dagobert les leçons qu'il avoit reçues de S. Arnoux et de S. Cunibert. Il
se livra à cette passion avec tant de scandale, qu'il eut jusqu'à trois femmes à la fois qui
portoient le nom de reines, sans parler d'un grand nombre de concubines ...

"Amand, après un assez long exil, 'refusa d'abord l'honneur de baptiser' l'enfant de son maître:
'mais les instances que le roi lui fit faire par Ouen et Eloi firent céder sa modestie à l'obéissance.
L'enfant fut aussitôt apporté le saint évêque l'ayant pris entre ses bras, lui donna sa bénédiction,
et récita les prières pour le faire catéchumène. L'oraison étant finie, comme personne ne répondoit,
Dieu délia la langue du jeune prince, qui n'avoit pas plus de quarante jours, et il répondit
distinctement amen.'"

This happened in 630 at Orleans, and the holy abbot who attests the miracle was present when
it occurred. Had St. Amand learnt ventriloquism during his missionary excursions?

And now permit me to tell your correspondent CH. that Abp. Bramhall's Dutch is quite correct.
"Mevrouw" is still the title of empresses, queens duchesses, Countesses, noble ladies, ministers
of state's and other great men's wives.

G.M.

Guernsey.

A Hint for Publishers.--Many, like myself, have no doubt experienced the inconvenience of possessing
early impressions of books, of which later editions exist with numerous emendations and errata.

Would it not be practicable for publishers to issue these emendations and errata in a separate
form and at a fair price, for the benefit of the purchasers of the preceding editions?

Were this plan generally adopted, the value of most books would be materially enhanced, and
people would not object, as they now do, to order new publications.

HERBERT.

"He who runs may read."--There appeared in Vol. ii., p. 374., a new, and, in my opinion, an
erroneous, interpretation of part of ver. 2., chap. ii. Habakkuk. It appears to me probable
that a person reading the vision might be struck with awe, and so "alarmed by it" as not to
be able "to fly from the impending calamity" in the way which your correspondent imagines.
I prefer Archbishop Newcome's explanation:--"Let the characters be so legible that one who
hastily passeth on may read them. This may have been a proverbial expression."

If you be pleased to insert this, readers may judge for themselves which is the right interpretation.

PLAIN SENSE.

The Rolliad.--The following memoranda relative to this word were given to me by one who lived
during the period of its publication, and was, it is believed, himself a contributor. Wraxall,
in his Memoirs, states that the work was nearly all written by Richardson; this is not true.
The principal writers were Gen. Fitzpatrick, Lord John Townshend, Dr. Lawrence--he had the
chief control. They met in a room at Becket's, the bookseller; they had a secretary and copyist.

None of the contributions went to the newspaper in the original handwriting. The Morning Herald
was the paper it is believed, in which they first appeared, although that journal was on the
eve of going over to the opposite party. The "ode" to Wraxall, was written by Tickell, author
of "Anticipation.".

W.A.

November, 23. 1850.

The Rolliad.--

From The Times, about 1784.

      ROLLIAD.

  Political Eclogues.

      ROSE.

    Line 21. ed. 1795.

  "Mr. Rose, Mr. Rose,
  How can you suppose
  I'll be led by the nose,
  In voting for those
  You mean to propose,
  Mr. Rose, Mr. Rose?"

The above epigram is inserted in my copy of the Rolliad.

Can any of your readers give the names of the {440} authors of the numerous pieces in the second
part of "Political Miscellanies."

F.B.R.

The Conquest.--Permit me to point out the erroneous historical idea which obtains in the use
of this phrase. Acquisition out of the common course of inheritance is by our legists called
perquisitio, by the feudists conquisitio, and the first purchaser (he who brought the estate
into the current family) the conquereur. The charters and chronicles of the age thus rightly
style William the Norman conquisitor, and his accession conquæstus; but now, from disuse of
the foedal sense, with the notion of the forcible method of acquisition, we annex the idea
of victory to conquisition,--a title to which William never pretended.

W.L.

Twickenham.

       *       *       *       *       *

QUERIES.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES.

(Continued from page 421.)

(18.) What could have induced the accurate and learned Saxius (Catal. Lib. Mediol., edit. p.
DXC.) to give the name Elucidarium to the first part of the Mariale of Bernardinus de Bustis?
This writer, who has sometimes erroneously been reputed a Dominican, and who is commemorated
in the Franciscan Martyrology on the 8th of May (p. 178.), derived his denomination from his
family, and not "from a place in the country of Milan," as Mr. Tyler has supposed. (Worship
of the Virgin, p. 41. Lond. 1846.) Elsewhere Saxius had said (Hist. Typog.-Liter. Mediol.,
col. ccclii.) that the Mariale was printed for the first time in 1493, and dedicated to Pope
Alexander VI.; and Argelati was led by him to consider the Elucidarium to be a distinct performance;
and he speaks of the Mariale as having been published in 1494. (Biblioth. Scriptor. Med., tom.
i. p. ii. 245.) Unquestionably the real title assigned by the author to the first part of his
Sermonarium or Mariale was "PERPETUUM SILENTIUM," and it was inscribed to Alexander's predecessor,
Pope Innocent VIII.; and, in conjunction with De Bustis's Office of the Immaculate Conception
of the Virgin Mary (sanctioned by a Brief of Pope Sixtus IV., who in 1476 had issued the earliest
pontifical decree in favour of an innovation now predominant in the Church of Rome), was primarily
printed "Mli," that is, Mediolani, "per Uldericum scinzenzeler, Anno dni M.cccc.lxxxxij" (1492).
Wharton, Olearius, Clement, and Maittaire knew nothing of this edition; and it must take precedence
of that of Strasburg named by Panzer (i. 47.).

(19.) Can any particulars be easily ascertained relative to reprints of the acts of the canonisation
of the Seraphic Doctor in their original small quarto shape?

(20.) To whom should we attribute the rare tract entitled Lauacrum conscientie omnium sacerdotum,
which consists of fifty-eight leaves, and was printed in Gothic letter at Cologne, "Anno post
Jubileum quarto?"

(21.) Where can information be met with as to the authorship of the Dialogus super Libertate
Ecclesiastica, between Hugo, Cato, and Oliver? Fischer (Essai sur Gutenberg, 79.) traces back
the first edition to the year 1463; but I know the treatise only in the form in which it was
republished at Oppenheim in 1516.

(22.) Who was the compiler or curator of the Viola Sanctorum? and can the slightest attempt
be made at verifying the signatures and numbers inserted in the margin, and apparently relating
to the MSS. from which the work was taken? One of two copies before me was printed at Nuremberg
in 1486, but the other I believe to belong to the earliest impression. It is of small folio
size, in very Gothic type, perhaps of the year 1472, without date, place, or name of printer,
and is destitute of cyphers, catchwords, and signatures. There are ninety-two leaves in the
volume, and in each page generally thirty-three (sometimes thirty-four, rarely thirty-five)
lines. (See Brunet, iii. 547.; Kloss, 280.; Panzer, i. 193.)

(23.) By what means can intelligence be procured respecting "Doctor Ulricus," the author of
Fraternitas Cleri? A satisfactory reply to this inquiry might probably be found in the Bibl.
Spenceriana; but I have not now an opportunity of determining this point.

(24.) A question has been raised by Dr Maitland, from whose admirable criticism nothing connected
with literature is likely to escape, as to the meaning of the letters "P.V." placed over a
sudarium held by St. Peter and St. Paul. (Early printed Books in the Lambeth Library, pp. 115.
368.) Any person who has happened to obtain the Vitas Patrum, decorated with the curious little
woodcuts of which Dr. Maitland has carefully represented two, will cheerfully agree with him
in maintaining the excellence of the acquisition. In a copy of this work bearing date 1520,
eleven years later than the Lambeth volume (List, p. 85.), the reverse of the leaf which contains
the colophon exhibits the same sudarium, in company with the words "Salve sancta Facies." This
circumstance inclines me to venture to ask whether my much-valued friend will concur with me
in the conjecture that Pictura Veronicæ may be the interpretation of "P.V.?" Though the pseudo-Archbishop
of Westminster declared, in the simplicity of his heart (Letters to John Poynder, Esq., p.
6.), that he had "never met" with the sequence "quæ dicitur in Missa Votiva de Vultu Sancto,"
doubtless some of his newly-arrested subjects are {441} well aware that it exists, and that
its commencement (see Bona, iii. 144.) is,--

  "Salve sancta Facies nostri Redemptoris,
  In qua nitet species divini splendoris,
  Impressa panniculo nivei candoris,
  Dataque Veronicæ signum ob amoris."

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Dr. Timothy Thruscross.--What is known of the Rev. Dr. Timothy Thruscross, Thirscross, or Thurscross?
I am in possession of the very little related by Wood, Ath. Oxon. et Fasti, Walker's Sufferings
of the Clergy, Life of Barwich, and the interesting notices scattered in several parts of Sir
H. Slingsby's Diary; but this only renders me anxious for more, and I should be glad to receive
other references.

W. DN.

Echo Song.--Meaning of Thwaites.--Would you be kind enough to insert the inclosed poem as I
am very desirous of being made acquainted with the name of the writer. I expect, from various
reasons, that it was written about the year 1645:--

          AN ECHO.

  "What wantst thou, that thou art in this sad taking?
          A King.
  What made him first remove hence his residing?
          Siding.
  Did any here deny him satisfaction?
          Faction.
  Tell me wherein the strength of faction lies?
          On Lies.
  What didst though when the king left his parliament?
          Lament.
  What terms wouldst give to gain his company?
          Any.
  What wouldst thou do if here thou mightst behold him?
          Hold him.
  But wouldst thou save him with they best endeavour?
          Ever.
  But if he come not, what become of London?
          Undone."

I also wish to know (if any of your readers will enlighten me I shall be obliged) what is the
meaning of the name "Thwaites." It is a very common name, there being Thwaites, Thornthwaites,
Hawthornthwaites, Haythornthwaites, in abundance through all part of England.

LLYD RHYS MORGAN.

Deus Justificatus.--Can any of your readers give any information respecting the authorship
of the book entitled:--

    "Deus Justificatus, or the Divine Goodness vindicated and cleared,
    against the Assertors of Absolute and Inconditionate Reprobation.
    Together with some Refections on a late Discourse of Mr. Parkers
    concerning the Divine Dominion and Goodness. London, 1668." 8vo. pp.
    xxxii. 280. iii.?

My copy (which has the autograph of Richard Claridge, the quaker) has written on the title
in an old hand "By H. Hallywell." In the Biographia Britannica vol. iv., p. 546., 2d edit.,
it is said to be by Ralph Cudworth. If so, it has escaped Birch and the other editors of this
celebrated writer.

JOHN J. DREDGE.

Death by Burning (Vol. ii., p. 6.).--In the Mendip mining district in Somersetshire, I am credibly
informed that within seventy years a person has been burned alive for stealing ore from the
pit mouth. There must be some old inhabitant who can attest this fact, and it would be desirable
to obtain its confirmation.

J.W.H.

Irish Bull.--What is the exact definition of an Irish bull? When was the term first applied
to the species of blunder which goes by that name?

GRIFFIN.

Farquharson's Observations on Auroræ.--A translation of the Course of Meteorology, by Professor
Kaenitz, of Halle, by Mr. C.V. Walker, was published at London in 1845, in one volume 12mo.
The work was written in German, and afterwards translated into French, and the English work
is derived from the French translation. In p. 459. the following passage occurs:

    "It is chiefly to the shepherd Farquharson, at Alford, in
    Aberdeenshire, that we are indebted for a long series of observations
    on auroræ; and he endeavoured to prove that their height is
    inconsiderable."

Lower down it is said:

    "At the same time, another Protestant minister, Mr. James Paull, at
    Tullynessle, four kilometres from Alford, saw that the aurora possessed
    an unusual clearness in the zenith, so that its height did not perhaps
    exeed 1300 metres."

I have neither the original German work nor the French translation at hand to refer to; but
I have a strong suspicion that the word translated shepherd is pasteur, and that it is used
to designate Mr. Farquharson as minister of Alford.

L.

Smith's Vitæ Eruditissimorum et Illustrium Virorum.--In his Life of Sir Peter Young he quotes
Ex Ephemeride Cl. V.D. Petri Junii, but does not say where it was preserved. This (so-called)
Ephemeris was written by Sir Peter in his later years, partly perhaps from memory, partly from
notes, and, as might be expected, is not free from errors of date which admit of correction
from other sources. Smith, following Camden, places Easter Seatown, Young's chief residence,
in Lothian, whereas it is in Forfarshire, about a mile from Arbroath, and was part of the property
of the great Abbey to which that town belonged. Is it known whether this Ephemeris is extant?
and, if so, where?

SCOTUS.

{442}

Defender of the Faith.--In Banks' Dormant and Extinct Baronage, pp. 408-9., vol. iv., I find
the following:--

    "He ( Henry VIII.) was the first English monarch who obtained the title
    of Defender of the Faith, which was conferred upon him by Pope Leo X.,
    for a book written by him against Martin Luther."

To which the following note is subjoined:--

    "But in a letter from Christopher Wren, Esq., to Francis Peek, M.A.
    (author of the Desiderata Curiosa), it is thus stated, viz., 'that
    King Henry VII. had the title of Defender of the Faith, appears by the
    Register of the Order of the Garter in the black book, (sic dictum a
    tegmine), now in my hands, by office, which having been shown to King
    Charles I., he received with much joy; nothing more pleasing him than
    that the right of that title was fixed in the crown long before the
    Pope's pretended donation, to all which I make protestation to all
    posterity.' [Greek: Autographô], hoc meo. Ità testor. Chr. Wren, à
    memoria, et secretis Honoratissimi Ordinis. Wrexham, 4 March, 1736-7."

In support of this note, I find in Chamberlayne's Present State of England, 1669, p. 88., this
statement:

