Yet it was only gradually that I became quite conscious of all this. At first, under the safe
guidance of my renewed wedded happiness, which had for a time been so disturbed in its early
days, I felt distinctly better than I had before in all my professional work. The fact that
the material position of the theatrical undertaking was assured exercised a healthy influence
on the performances. The theatre itself was cooped up in a very narrow space; there was as
little room for scenic display on its tiny stage as there was accommodation for rich musical
effects in the cramped orchestra. In both directions the strictest limits were imposed, yet
I contrived to introduce considerable reinforcements into an orchestra which was really only
calculated for a string quartette, two first and two second violins, two violas, and one 'cello.
These successful exertions of mine were the first cause of the dislike Holtei evinced towards
me later on. After this we were able to get good concerted music for the opera. I found the
thorough study of Mehul's opera, Joseph in Aegypten, very stimulating. Its noble and simple
style, added to the touching effect of the music, which quite carries one away, did much towards
effecting a favourable change in my taste, till then warped by my connection with the theatre.

It was most gratifying to feel my former serious taste again aroused by really good dramatic
performances. I specially remember a production of King Lear, which I followed with the greatest
interest, not only at the actual performances, but at all the rehearsals as well. Yet these
educative impressions tended to make me feel ever more and more dissatisfied with my work at
the theatre. On the one hand, the members of the company became gradually more distasteful
to me, and on the other I was growing discontented with the management. With regard to the
staff of the theatre, I very soon found out the hollowness, vanity, and the impudent selfishness
of this uncultured and undisciplined class of people, for I had now lost my former liking for
the Bohemian life that had such an attraction for me at Magdeburg. Before long there were but
a few members of our company with whom I had not quarrelled, thanks to one or the other of
these drawbacks. But my saddest experience was, that in such disputes, into which in fact I
was led simply by my zeal for the artistic success of the performances as a whole, not only
did I receive no support from Holtei, the director, but I actually made him my enemy. He even
declared publicly that our theatre had become far too respectable for his taste, and tried
to convince me that good theatrical performances could not be given by a strait-laced company.

In his opinion the idea of the dignity of theatrical art was pedantic nonsense, and he thought
light serio-comic vaudeville the only class of performance worth considering. Serious opera,
rich musical ensemble, was his particular aversion, and my demands for this irritated him so
that he met them only with scorn and indignant refusals. Of the strange connection between
this artistic bias and his taste in the domain of morality I was also to become aware, to my
horror, in due course. For the present I felt so repelled by the declaration of his artistic
antipathies, as to let my dislike for the theatre as a profession steadily grow upon me. I
still took pleasure in some good performances which I was able to get up, under favourable
circumstances, at the larger theatre at Mitau, to where the company went for a time in the
early part of the summer. Yet it was while I was there, spending most of my time reading Bulwer
Lytton's novels, that I made a secret resolve to try hard to free myself from all connection
with the only branch of theatrical art which had so far been open to me.

The composition of my Rienzi, the text of which I had finished in the early days of my sojourn
in Riga, was destined to bridge me over to the glorious world for which I had longed so intensely.
I had laid aside the completion of my Gluckliche Barenfamilie, for the simple reason that the
lighter character of this piece would have thrown me more into contact with the very theatrical
people I most despised. My greatest consolation now was to prepare Rienzi with such an utter
disregard of the means which were available there for its production, that my desire to produce
it would force me out of the narrow confines of this puny theatrical circle to seek a fresh
connection with one of the larger theatres. It was after our return from Mitau, in the middle
of the summer of 1838, that I set to work on this composition, and by so doing roused myself
to a state of enthusiasm which, considering my position, was nothing less than desperate dare-
devilry. All to whom I confided my plan perceived at once, on the mere mention of my subject,
that I was preparing to break away from my present position, in which there could be no possibility
of producing my work, and I was looked upon as light-headed and fit only for an asylum.

To all my acquaintances my procedure seemed stupid and reckless. Even the former patron of
my peculiar Leipzig overture thought it impracticable and eccentric, seeing that I had again
turned my back on light opera. He expressed this opinion very freely in the Neue Zeitschrift
fur Musik, in a report of a concert I had given towards the end of the previous winter, and
openly ridiculed the Magdeburg Columbus Overture and the Rule Britannia Overture previously
mentioned. I myself had not taken any pleasure in the performance of either of these overtures,
as my predilection for cornets, strongly marked in both these overtures, again played me a
sorry trick, as I had evidently expected too much of our Riga musicians, and had to endure
all kinds of disappointment on the occasion of the performance. As a complete contrast to my
extravagant setting of Rienzi, this same director, H. Dorn, had set to work to write an opera
in which he had most carefully borne in mind the conditions obtaining at the Riga theatre.
Der Schoffe van Paris, an historical operetta of the period of the siege of Paris by Joan of
Arc, was practised and performed by us to the complete satisfaction of the composer. However,
the success of this work gave me no reason for abandoning my project to complete my Rienzi,
and I was secretly pleased to find that I could regard this success without a trace of envy.
Though animated by no feeling of rivalry, I gradually gave up associating with the Riga artists,
confining myself chiefly to the performance of the duties I had undertaken, and worked away
at the two first acts of my big opera without troubling myself at all whether I should ever
get so far as to see it produced.

The serious and bitter experiences I had had so early in life had done much to guide me towards
that intensely earnest side of my nature that had manifested itself in my earliest youth. The
effect of these bitter experiences was now to be still further emphasised by other sad impressions.
Not long after Minna had rejoined me, I received from home the news of the death of my sister
Rosalie. It was the first time in my life that I had experienced the passing away of one near
and dear to me. The death of this sister struck me as a most cruel and significant blow of
fate; it was out of love and respect for her that I had turned away so resolutely from my youthful
excesses, and it was to gain her sympathy that I had devoted special thought and care to my
first great works. When the passions and cares of life had come upon me and driven me away
from my home, it was she who had read deep down into my sorely stricken heart, and who had
bidden me that anxious farewell on my departure from Leipzig. At the time of my disappearance,
when the news of my wilful marriage and of my consequent unfortunate position reached my family,
it was she who, as my mother informed me later, never lost her faith in me, but who always
cherished the hope that I would one day reach the full development of my capabilities and make
a genuine success of my life.

Now, at the news of her death, and illuminated by the recollection of that one impressive farewell,
as by a flash of lightning I saw the immense value my relations with this sister had been to
me, and I did not fully realise the extent of her influence until later on, when, after my
first striking successes, my mother tearfully lamented that Rosalie had not lived to witness
them. It really did me good to be again in communication with my family. My mother and sisters
had had news of my doings somehow or other, and I was deeply touched, in the letters which
I was now receiving from them, to hear no reproaches anent my headstrong and apparently heartless
behaviour, but only sympathy and heartfelt solicitude. My family had also received favourable
reports about my wife's good qualities, a fact about which I was particularly glad, as I was
thus spared the difficulties of defending her questionable behaviour to me, which I should
have been at pains to excuse. This produced a salutary calm in my soul, which had so recently
been a prey to the worst anxieties. All that had driven me with such passionate haste to an
improvident and premature marriage, all that had consequently weighed on me so ruinously, now
seemed set at rest, leaving peace in its stead. And although the ordinary cares of life still
pressed on me for many years, often in a most vexatious and troublesome form, yet the anxieties
attendant on my ardent youthful wishes were in a manner subdued and calm. From thence forward
till the attainment of my professional independence, all my life's struggles could be directed
entirely towards that more ideal aim which, from the time of the conception of my Rienzi, was
to be my only guide through life.

It was only later that I first realised the real character of my life in Riga, from the utterance
of one of its inhabitants, who was astonished to learn of the success of a man of whose importance,
during the whole of his two years' sojourn in the small capital of Livonia, nothing had been
known. Thrown entirely on my own resources, I was a stranger to every one. As I mentioned before,
I kept aloof from all the theatre folk, in consequence of my increasing dislike of them, and
therefore, when at the end of March, 1839, at the close of my second winter there, I was given
my dismissal by the management, although this occurrence surprised me for other reasons, yet
I felt fully reconciled to this compulsory change in my life. The reasons which led to this
dismissal were, however, of such a nature that I could only regard it as one of the most disagreeable
experiences of my life. Once, when I was lying dangerously ill, I heard of Holtei's real feelings
towards me. I had caught a severe cold in the depth of winter at a theatrical rehearsal, and
it at once assumed a serious character, owing to the fact that my nerves were in a state of
constant irritation from the continual annoyance and vexatious worry caused by the contemptible
character of the theatrical management. It was just at the time when a special performance
of the opera Norma was to be given by our company in Mitau. Holtei insisted on my getting up
from a sick-bed to make this wintry journey, and thus to expose myself to the danger of seriously
increasing my cold in the icy theatre at Mitau. Typhoid fever was the consequence, and this
pulled me down to such an extent that Holtei, who heard of my condition, is said to have remarked
at the theatre that I should probably never conduct again, and that, to all intents and purposes,
'I was on my last legs.' It was to a splendid homoeopathic physician, Dr. Prutzer, that I owed
my recovery and my life. Not long after that Holtei left our theatre and Riga for ever; his
occupation there, with 'the far too respectable conditions,' as he expressed it, had become
intolerable to him. In addition, however, circumstances had arisen in his domestic life (which
had been much affected by the death of his wife) which seemed to make him consider a complete
break with Riga eminently desirable. But to my astonishment I now first became aware that I
too had unconsciously been a sufferer from the troubles he had brought upon himself. When Holtei's
successor in the management--Joseph Hoffmann the singer--informed me that his predecessor had
made it a condition to his taking over the post that he should enter into the same engagement
that Holtei had made with the conductor Dorn for the post which I had hitherto filled, and
my reappointment had therefore been made an impossibility, my wife met my astonishment at this
news by giving me the reason, of which for some considerable time past she had been well aware,
namely, Holtei's special dislike of us both. When I was afterwards informed by Minna of what
had happened--she having purposely kept it from me all this time, so as not to cause bad feeling
between me and my director--a ghastly light was thrown upon the whole affair. I did indeed
remember perfectly how, soon after Minna's arrival in Riga, I had been particularly pressed
by Holtei not to prevent my wife's engagement at the theatre. I asked him to talk things quietly
over with her, so that he might see that Minna's unwillingness rested on a mutual understanding,
and not on any jealousy on my part. I had intentionally given him the time when I was engaged
at the theatre on rehearsals for the necessary discussions with my wife. At the end of these
meetings I had, on my return, often found Minna in a very excited condition, and at length
she declared emphatically that under no circumstances would she accept the engagement offered
by Holtei. I had also noticed in Minna's demeanour towards me a strange anxiety to know why
I was not unwilling to allow Holtei to try to persuade her. Now that the catastrophe had occurred,
I learned that Holtei had in fact used these interviews for making improper advances to my
wife, the nature of which I only realised with difficulty on further acquaintance with this
man's peculiarities, and after having heard of other instances of a similar nature. I then
discovered that Holtei considered it an advantage to get himself talked about in connection
with pretty women, in order thus to divert the attention of the public from other conduct even
more disreputable. After this Minna was exceedingly indignant at Holtei, who, finding his own
suit rejected, appeared as the medium for another suitor, on whose behalf he urged that he
would think none the worse of her for rejecting him, a grey-haired and penniless man, but at
the same time advocated the suit of Brandenburg, a very wealthy and handsome young merchant.
His fierce indignation at this double repulse, his humiliation at having revealed his real
nature to no purpose, seems, to judge from Minna's observations, to have been exceedingly great.
I now understood too well that his frequent and profoundly contemptuous sallies against respectable
actors and actresses had not been mere spirited exaggerations, but that he had probably often
had to complain of being put thoroughly to shame on this account.

The fact that the playing of such criminal parts as the one he had had in view with my wife
was unable to divert the ever- increasing attention of the outside world from his vicious and
dissolute habits, does not seem to have escaped him; for those behind the scenes told me candidly
that it was owing to the fear of very unpleasant revelations that he had suddenly decided to
give up his position at Riga altogether. Even in much later years I heard about Holtei's bitter
dislike of me, a dislike which showed itself, among other things, in his denunciation of The
Music of the Future, [Footnote: Zukunftsmusik is a pamphlet revealing some of Wagner's artistic
aims and aspirations, written 1860-61.--EDITOR.] and of its tendency to jeopardise the simplicity
of pure sentiment. I have previously mentioned that he displayed so much personal animosity
against me during the latter part of the time we were together in Riga that he vented his hostility
upon me in every possible way. Up to that time I had felt inclined to ascribe it to the divergence
of our respective views on artistic points.

To my dismay I now became aware that personal considerations alone were at the bottom of all
this, and I blushed to realise that by my former unreserved confidence in a man whom I thought
was absolutely honest, I had based my knowledge of human nature on such very weak foundations.
But still greater was my disappointment when I discovered the real character of my friend H.
Dorn. During the whole time of our intercourse at Riga, he, who formerly treated me more like
a good-natured elder brother, had become my most confidential friend. We saw and visited each
other almost daily, very frequently in our respective homes. I kept not a single secret from
him, and the performance of his Schoffe van Paris under my direction was as successful as if
it had been under his own. Now, when I heard that my post had been given to him, I felt obliged
to ask him about it, in order to learn whether there was any mistake on his part as to my intention
regarding the position I had hitherto held. But from his letter in reply I could clearly see
that Dorn had really made use of Holtei's dislike for me to extract from him, before his departure,
an arrangement which was both binding on his successor and also in his (Dorn's) own favour.
As my friend he ought to have known that he could benefit by this agreement only in the event
of my resigning my appointment in Riga, because in our confidential conversations, which continued
to the end, he always carefully refrained from touching on the possibility of my going away
or remaining. In fact, he declared that Holtei had distinctly told him he would on no account
re-engage me, as I could not get on with the singers. He added that after this one could not
take it amiss if he, who had been inspired with fresh enthusiasm for the theatre by the success
of his Schoffe von Paris, had seized and turned to his own advantage the chance offered to
him. Moreover, he had gathered from my confidential communications that I was very awkwardly
situated, and that, owing to my small salary having been cut down by Holtei from the very beginning,
I was in a very precarious position on account of the demands of my creditors in Konigsberg
and Magdeburg. It appeared that these people had employed against me a lawyer, who was a friend
of Dorn's, and that, consequently, he had come to the conclusion that I would not be able to
remain in Riga. Therefore, even as my friend, he had felt his conscience quite clear in accepting
Holtei's proposal.

In order not to leave him in the complacent enjoyment of this self-deception, I put it clearly
before him that he could not be ignorant of the fact that a higher salary had been promised
to me for the third year of my contract; and that, by the establishment of orchestral concerts,
which had already made a favourable start, I now saw my way to getting free from those long-standing
debts, having already overcome the difficulties of the removal and settling down. I also asked
him how he would act if I saw it was to my own interest to retain my post, and to call on him
to resign his agreement with Holtei, who, as a matter of fact, after his departure from Riga,
had withdrawn his alleged reason for my dismissal. To this I received no answer, nor have I
had one up to the present day; but, on the other hand, in 1865, I was astonished to see Dorn
enter my house in Munich unannounced, and when to his joy I recognised him, he stepped up to
me with a gesture which clearly showed his intention of embracing me. Although I managed to
evade this, yet I soon saw the difficulty of preventing him from addressing me with the familiar
form of 'thou,' as the attempt to do so would have necessitated explanations that would have
been a useless addition to all my worries just then; for it was the time when my Tristan was
being produced.

Such a man was Heinrich Dorn. Although, after the failure of three operas, he had retired in
disgust from the theatre to devote himself exclusively to the commercial side of music, yet
the success of his opera, Der Schoffe von Paris, in Riga helped him back to a permanent place
among the dramatic musicians of Germany. But to this position he was first dragged from obscurity,
across the bridge of infidelity to his friend, and by the aid of virtue in the person of Director
Holtei, thanks to a magnanimous oversight on the part of Franz Listz. The preference of King
Friedrich Wilhelm IV. for church scenes contributed to secure him eventually his important
position at the greatest lyric theatre in Germany, the Royal Opera of Berlin. For he was prompted
far less by his devotion to the dramatic muse than by his desire to secure a good position
in some important German city, when, as already hinted, through Liszt's recommendation he was
appointed musical director of Cologne Cathedral. During a fete connected with the building
of the cathedral he managed, as a musician, so to work upon the Prussian monarch's religious
feelings, that he was appointed to the dignified post of musical conductor at the Royal Theatre,
in which capacity he long continued to do honour to German dramatic music in conjunction with
Wilhelm Taubert.

I must give J. Hoffmann, who from this time forward was the manager of the Riga theatre, the
credit of having felt the treachery practised upon me very deeply indeed. He told me that his
contract with Dorn bound him only for one year, and that the moment the twelve months had elapsed
he wished to come to a fresh agreement with me. As soon as this was known, my patrons in Riga
came forward with offers of teaching engagements and arrangements for sundry concerts, by way
of compensating me for the year's salary which I should lose by being away from my work as
a conductor. Though I was much gratified by these offers, yet, as I have already pointed out,
the longing to break loose from the kind of theatrical life which I had experienced up to that
time so possessed me that I resolutely seized this chance of abandoning my former vocation
for an entirely new one. Not without some shrewdness, I played upon my wife's indignation at
the treachery I had suffered, in order to make her fall in with my eccentric notion of going
to Paris. Already in my conception of Rienzi I had dreamed of the most magnificent theatrical
conditions, but now, without halting at any intermediate stations, my one desire was to reach
the very heart of all European grand opera. While still in Magdeburg I had made H. Konig's
romance, Die Hohe Braut, the subject of a grand opera in five acts, and in the most luxurious
French style. After the scenic draft of this opera, which had been translated into French,
was completely worked out, I sent it from Konigsberg to Scribe in Paris. With this manuscript
I sent a letter to the famous operatic poet, in which I suggested that he might make use of
my plot, on condition that he would secure me the composition of the music for the Paris Opera
House. To convince him of my ability to compose Parisian operatic music, I also sent him the
score of my Liebesverbot. At the same time I wrote to Meyerbeer, informing him of my plans,
and begging him to support me. I was not at all disheartened at receiving no reply, for I was
content to know that now at last 'I was in communication with Paris.' When, therefore, I started
out upon my daring journey from Riga, I seemed to have a comparatively serious object in view,
and my Paris projects no longer struck me as being altogether in the air. In addition to this
I now heard that my youngest sister, Cecilia, had become betrothed to a certain Eduard Avenarius,
an employee of the Brockhaus book-selling firm, and that he had undertaken the management of
their Paris branch. To him I applied for news of Scribe, and for an answer to the application
I had made to that gentleman some years previously. Avenarius called on Scribe, and from him
received an acknowledgment of the receipt of my earlier communication. Scribe also showed that
he had some recollection of the subject itself; for he said that, so far as he could remember,
there was a joueuse de harpe in the piece, who was ill-treated by her brother. The fact that
this merely incidental item had alone remained in his memory led me to conclude that he had
not extended his acquaintance with the piece beyond the first act, in which the item in question
occurs. When, moreover, I heard that he had nothing to say in regard to my score, except that
he had had portions of it played over to him by a pupil of the Conservatoire, I really could
not flatter myself that he had entered into definite and conscious relations with me. And yet
I had palpable evidence in a letter of his to Avenarius, which the latter forwarded to me,
that Scribe had actually occupied himself with my work, and that I was indeed in communication
with him, and this letter of Scribe's made such an impression upon my wife, who was by no means
inclined to be sanguine, that she gradually overcame her apprehensions in regard to the Paris
adventure. At last it was fixed and settled that on the expiry of my second year's contract
in Riga (that is to say, in the coming summer, 1839), we should journey direct from Riga to
Paris, in order that I might try my luck there as a composer of opera.

The production of my Rienzi now began to assume greater importance. The composition of its
second act was finished before we started, and into this I wove a heroic ballet of extravagant
dimensions. It was now imperative that I should speedily acquire a knowledge of French, a language
which, during my classical studies at the Grammar School, I had contemptuously laid aside.
As there were only four weeks in which to recover the time I had lost, I engaged an excellent
French master. But as I soon realised that I could achieve but little in so short a time, I
utilised the hours of the lessons in order to obtain from him, under the pretence of receiving
instruction, an idiomatic translation of my Rienzi libretto. This I wrote with red ink on such
parts of the score as were finished, so that on reaching Paris I might immediately submit my
half-finished opera to French judges of art.

Everything now seemed to be carefully prepared for my departure, and all that remained to be
done was to raise the necessary funds for my undertaking. But in this respect the outlook was
bad. The sale of our modest household furniture, the proceeds of a benefit concert, and my
meagre savings only sufficed to satisfy the importunate demands of my creditors in Magdeburg
and Konigsberg. I knew that if I were to devote all my cash to this purpose, there would not
be a farthing left. Some way out of the fix must be found, and this our old Konigsberg friend,
Abraham Moller, suggested in his usual flippant and obscure manner. Just at this critical moment
he paid us a second visit to Riga. I acquainted him with the difficulties of our position,
and all the obstacles which stood in the way of my resolve to go to Paris. In his habitual
laconical way he counselled me to reserve all my savings for our journey, and to settle with
my creditors when my Parisian successes had provided the necessary means. To help us in carrying
out this plan, he offered to convey us in his carriage across the Russian frontier at top speed
to an East Prussian port. We should have to cross the Russian frontier without passports, as
these had been already impounded by our foreign creditors. He assured us that we should find
it quite simple to carry out this very hazardous expedition, and declared that he had a friend
on a Prussian estate close to the frontier who would render us very effective assistance. My
eagerness to escape at any price from my previous circumstances, and to enter with all possible
speed upon the wider field, in which I hoped very soon to realise my ambition, blinded me to
all the unpleasantnesses which the execution of his proposal must entail. Director Hoffmann,
who considered himself bound to serve me to the utmost of his ability, facilitated my departure
by allowing me to leave some months before the expiration of my engagement. After continuing
to conduct the operatic portion of the Mitau theatrical season through the month of June, we
secretly started in a special coach hired by Moller and under his protection. The goal of our
journey was Paris, but many unheard-of hardships were in store for us before we were to reach
that city.

The sense of contentment involuntarily aroused by our passage through the fruitful Courland
in the luxuriant month of July, and by the sweet illusion that now at last I had cut myself
loose from a hateful existence, to enter upon a new and boundless path of fortune, was disturbed
from its very outset by the miserable inconveniences occasioned by the presence of a huge Newfoundland
dog called Robber. This beautiful creature, originally the property of a Riga merchant, had,
contrary to the nature of his race, become devotedly attached to me. After I had left Riga,
and during my long stay in Mitau, Robber incessantly besieged my empty house, and so touched
the hearts of my landlord and the neighbours by his fidelity, that they sent the dog after
me by the conductor of the coach to Mitau, where I greeted him with genuine effusion, and swore
that, in spite of all difficulties, I would never part with him again. Whatever might happen,
the dog must go with us to Paris. And yet, even to get him into the carriage proved almost
impossible. All my endeavours to find him a place in or about the vehicle were in vain, and,
to my great grief, I had to watch the huge northern beast, with his shaggy coat, gallop all
day long in the blazing sun beside the carriage. At last, moved to pity by his exhaustion,
and unable to bear the sight any longer, I hit upon a most ingenious plan for bringing the
great animal with us into the carriage, where, in spite of its being full to overflowing, he
was just able to find room.

On the evening of the second day we reached the Russo-Prussian frontier. Moller's evident anxiety
as to whether we should be able to cross it safely showed us plainly that the matter was one
of some danger. His good friend from the other side duly turned up with a small carriage, as
arranged, and in this conveyance drove Minna, myself, and Robber through by paths to a certain
point, whence he led us on foot to a house of exceedingly suspicious exterior, where, after
handing us over to a guide, he left us. There we had to wait until sundown, and had ample leisure
in which to realise that we were in a smugglers' drinking den, which gradually became filled
to suffocation with Polish Jews of most forbidding aspect.

At last we were summoned to follow our guide. A few hundred feet away, on the slope of a hill,
lay the ditch which runs the whole length of the Russian frontier, watched continually and
at very narrow intervals by Cossacks. Our chance was to utilise the few moments after the relief
of the watch, during which the sentinels were elsewhere engaged. We had, therefore, to run
at full speed down the hill, scramble through the ditch, and then hurry along until we were
beyond the range of the soldiers' guns; for the Cossacks were bound in case of discovery to
fire upon us even on the other side of the ditch. In spite of my almost passionate anxiety
for Minna, I had observed with singular pleasure the intelligent behaviour of Robber, who,
as though conscious of the danger, silently kept close to our side, and entirely dispelled
my fear that he would give trouble during our dangerous passage. At last our trusted helpmeet
reappeared, and was so delighted that he hugged us all in his arms. Then, placing us once more
in his carriage, he drove us to the inn of the Prussian frontier village, where my friend Moller,
positively sick with anxiety, leaped sobbing and rejoicing out of bed to greet us.

It was only now that I began to realise the danger to which I had exposed, not only myself,
but also my poor Minna, and the folly of which I had been guilty through my ignorance of the
terrible difficulties of secretly crossing the frontier--difficulties concerning which Moller
had foolishly allowed me to remain in ignorance.

I was simply at a loss to convey to my poor exhausted wife how extremely I regretted the whole
affair.

And yet the difficulties we had just overcome were but the prelude to the calamities incidental
to this adventurous journey which had such a decisive influence on my life. The following day,
when, with courage renewed, we drove through the rich plain of Tilsit to Arnau, near Konigsberg,
we decided, as the next stage of our journey, to proceed from the Prussian harbour of Pillau
by sailing vessel to London. Our principal reason for this was the consideration of the dog
we had with us. It was the easiest way to take him. To convey him by coach from Konigsberg
to Paris was out of the question, and railways were unknown. But another consideration was
our budget; the whole result of my desperate efforts amounted to not quite one hundred ducats,
which were to cover not only the journey to Paris, but our expenses there until I should have
earned something. Therefore, after a few days' rest in the inn at Arnau, we drove to the little
seaport town of Pillau, again accompanied by Moller, in one of the ordinary local conveyances,
which was not much better than a wagon. In order to avoid Konigsberg, we passed through the
smaller villages and over bad roads. Even this short distance was not to be covered without
accident. The clumsy conveyance upset in a farmyard, and Minna was so severely indisposed by
the accident, owing to an internal shock, that I had to drag her-- with the greatest difficulty,
as she was quite helpless--to a peasant's house. The people were surly and dirty, and the night
we spent there was a painful one for the poor sufferer. A delay of several days occurred before
the departure of the Pillau vessel, but this was welcome as a respite to allow of Minna's recovery.
Finally, as the captain was to take us without a passport, our going on board was accompanied
by exceptional difficulties. We had to contrive to slip past the harbour watch to our vessel
in a small boat before daybreak. Once on board, we still had the troublesome task of hauling
Robber up the steep side of the vessel without attracting attention, and after that to conceal
ourselves at once below deck, in order to escape the notice of officials visiting the ship
before its departure. The anchor was weighed, and at last, as the land faded gradually out
of sight, we thought we could breathe freely and feel at ease.

We were on board a merchant vessel of the smallest type. She was called the Thetis; a bust
of the nymph was erected in the bows, and she carried a crew of seven men, including the captain.
With good weather, such as was to be expected in summer, the journey to London was estimated
to take eight days. However, before we had left the Baltic, we were delayed by a prolonged
calm. I made use of the time to improve my knowledge of French by the study of a novel, La
Derniere Aldini, by George Sand. We also derived some entertainment from associating with the
crew. There was an elderly and peculiarly taciturn sailor named Koske, whom we observed carefully
because Robber, who was usually so friendly, had taken an irreconcilable dislike to him. Oddly
enough, this fact was to add in some degree to our troubles in the hour of danger. After seven
days' sailing we were no further than Copenhagen, where, without leaving the vessel, we seized
an opportunity of making our very spare diet on board more bearable by various purchases of
food and drink. In good spirits we sailed past the beautiful castle of Elsinore, the sight
of which brought me into immediate touch with my youthful impressions of Hamlet. We were sailing
all unsuspecting through the Cattegat to the Skagerack, when the wind, which had at first been
merely unfavourable, and had forced us to a process of weary tacking, changed on the second
day to a violent storm. For twenty-four hours we had to struggle against it under disadvantages
which were quite new to us. In the captain's painfully narrow cabin, in which one of us was
without a proper berth, we were a prey to sea-sickness and endless alarms. Unfortunately, the
brandy cask, at which the crew fortified themselves during their strenuous work, was let into
a hollow under the seat on which I lay at full length. Now it happened to be Koske who came
most frequently in search of the refreshment which was such a nuisance to me, and this in spite
of the fact that on each occasion he had to encounter Robber in mortal combat. The dog flew
at him with renewed rage each time he came climbing down the narrow steps. I was thus compelled
to make efforts which, in my state of complete exhaustion from sea-sickness, rendered my condition
every time more critical. At last, on 27th July, the captain was compelled by the violence
of the west wind to seek a harbour on the Norwegian coast. And how relieved I was to behold
that far- reaching rocky coast, towards which we were being driven at such speed! A Norwegian
pilot came to meet us in a small boat, and, with experienced hand, assumed control of the Thetis,
whereupon in a very short time I was to have one of the most marvellous and most beautiful
impressions of my life. What I had taken to be a continuous line of cliffs turned out on our
approach to be a series of separate rocks projecting from the sea. Having sailed past them,
we perceived that we were surrounded, not only in front and at the sides, but also at our back,
by these reefs, which closed in behind us so near together that they seemed to form a single
chain of rocks. At the same time the hurricane was so broken by the rocks in our rear that
the further we sailed through this ever-changing labyrinth of projecting rocks, the calmer
the sea became, until at last the vessel's progress was perfectly smooth and quiet as we entered
one of those long sea- roads running through a giant ravine--for such the Norwegian fjords
appeared to me.

A feeling of indescribable content came over me when the enormous granite walls echoed the
hail of the crew as they cast anchor and furled the sails. The sharp rhythm of this call clung
to me like an omen of good cheer, and shaped itself presently into the theme of the seamen's
song in my Fliegender Hollander. The idea of this opera was, even at that time, ever present
in my mind, and it now took on a definite poetic and musical colour under the influence of
my recent impressions. Well, our next move was to go on shore. I learned that the little fishing
village at which we landed was called Sandwike, and was situated a few miles away from the
much larger town of Arendal. We were allowed to put up at the hospitable house of a certain
ship's captain, who was then away at sea, and here we were able to take the rest we so much
needed, as the unabated violence of the wind in the open detained us there two days. On 31st
July the captain insisted on leaving, despite the pilot's warning. We had been on board the
Thetis a few hours, and were in the act of eating a lobster for the first time in our lives,
when the captain and the sailors began to swear violently at the pilot, whom I could see at
the helm, rigid with fear, striving to avoid a reef--barely visible above the water--towards
which our ship was being driven. Great was our terror at this violent tumult, for we naturally
thought ourselves in the most extreme danger. The vessel did actually receive a severe shock,
which, to my vivid imagination, seemed like the splitting up of the whole ship. Fortunately,
however, it transpired that only the side of our vessel had fouled the reef, and there was
no immediate danger. Nevertheless, the captain deemed it necessary to steer for a harbour to
have the vessel examined, and we returned to the coast and anchored at another point. The captain
then offered to take us in a small boat with two sailors to Tromsond, a town of some importance
situated at a few hours' distance, where he had to invite the harbour officials to examine
his ship. This again proved a most attractive and impressive excursion. The view of one fjord
in particular, which extended far inland, worked on my imagination like some unknown, awe-inspiring
desert. This impression was intensified, during a long walk from Tromsond up to the plateau,
by the terribly depressing effect of the dun moors, bare of tree or shrub, boasting only a
covering of scanty moss, which stretch away to the horizon, and merge imperceptibly into the
gloomy sky. It was long after dark when we returned from this trip in our little boat, and
my wife was very anxious. The next morning (1st August), reassured as to the condition of the
vessel, and the wind favouring us, we were able to go to sea without further hindrance.

After four days' calm sailing a strong north wind arose, which drove us at uncommon speed in
the right direction. We began to think ourselves nearly at the end of our journey when, on
6th August, the wind changed, and the storm began to rage with unheard-of violence. On the
7th, a Wednesday, at half-past two in the afternoon, we thought ourselves in imminent danger
of death. It was not the terrible force with which the vessel was hurled up and down, entirely
at the mercy of this sea monster, which appeared now as a fathomless abyss, now as a steep
mountain peak, that filled me with mortal dread; my premonition of some terrible crisis was
aroused by the despondency of the crew, whose malignant glances seemed superstitiously to point
to us as the cause of the threatening disaster. Ignorant of the trifling occasion for the secrecy
of our journey, the thought may have occurred to them that our need of escape had arisen from
suspicious or even criminal circumstances. The captain himself seemed, in his extreme distress,
to regret having taken us on board; for we had evidently brought him ill-luck on this familiar
passage--usually a rapid and uncomplicated one, especially in summer. At this particular moment
there raged, beside the tempest on the water, a furious thunderstorm overhead, and Minna expressed
the fervent wish to be struck by lightning with me rather than to sink, living, into the fearful
flood. She even begged me to bind her to me, so that we might not be parted as we sank. Yet
another night was spent amid these incessant terrors, which only our extreme exhaustion helped
to mitigate.

The following day the storm had subsided; the wind remained unfavourable, but was mild. The
captain now tried to find our bearings by means of his astronomical instruments. He complained
of the sky, which had been overcast so many days, swore that he would give much for a single
glimpse of the sun or the stars, and did not conceal the uneasiness he felt at not being able
to indicate our whereabouts with certainty. He consoled himself, however, by following a ship
which was sailing some knots ahead in the same direction, and whose movements he observed closely
through the telescope. Suddenly he sprang up in great alarm, and gave a vehement order to change
our course. He had seen the ship in front go aground on a sand-bank, from which, he asserted,
she could not extricate herself; for he now realised that we were near the most dangerous part
of the belt of sand-banks bordering the Dutch coast for a considerable distance. By dint of
very skilful sailing, we were enabled to keep the opposite course towards the English coast,
which we in fact sighted on the evening of 9th August, in the neighbourhood of Southwold. I
felt new life come into me when I saw in the far distance the English pilots racing for our
ship. As competition is free among pilots on the English coast, they come out as far as possible
to meet incoming vessels, even when the risks are very great.

The winner in our case was a powerful grey-haired man, who, after much vain battling with the
seething waves, which tossed his light boat away from our ship at each attempt, at last succeeded
in boarding the Thetis. (Our poor, hardly-used boat still bore the name, although the wooden
figure-head of our patron nymph had been hurled into the sea during our first storm in the
Cattegat-- an ill-omened incident in the eyes of the crew.) We were filled with pious gratitude
when this quiet English sailor, whose hands were torn and bleeding from his repeated efforts
to catch the rope thrown to him on his approach, took over the rudder. His whole personality
impressed us most agreeably, and he seemed to us the absolute guarantee of a speedy deliverance
from our terrible afflictions. We rejoiced too soon, however, for we still had before us the
perilous passage through the sand-banks off the English coast, where, as I was assured, nearly
four hundred ships are wrecked on an average every year. We were fully twenty-four hours (from
the evening of the 10th to the 11th of August) amid these sandbanks, fighting a westerly gale,
which hindered our progress so seriously that we only reached the mouth of the Thames on the
evening of the 12th of August. My wife had, up to that point, been so nervously affected by
the innumerable danger signals, consisting chiefly of small guardships painted bright red and
provided with bells on account of the fog, that she could not close her eyes, day or night,
for the excitement of watching for them and pointing them out to the sailors. I, on the contrary,
found these heralds of human proximity and deliverance so consoling that, despite Minna's reproaches,
I indulged in a long refreshing sleep. Now that we were anchored in the mouth of the Thames,
waiting for daybreak, I found myself in the best of spirits; I dressed, washed, and even shaved
myself up on deck near the mast, while Minna and the whole exhausted crew were wrapped in deep
slumber. And with deepening interest I watched the growing signs of life in this famous estuary.
Our desire for a complete release from our detested confinement led us, after we had sailed
a little way up, to hasten our arrival in London by going on board a passing steamer at Gravesend.
As we neared the capital, our astonishment steadily increased at the number of ships of all
sorts that filled the river, the houses, the streets, the famous docks, and other maritime
constructions which lined the banks. When at last we reached London Bridge, this incredibly
crowded centre of the greatest city in the world, and set foot on land after our terrible three
weeks' voyage, a pleasurable sensation of giddiness overcame us as our legs carried us staggering
through the deafening uproar. Robber seemed to be similarly affected, for he whisked round
the corners like a mad thing, and threatened to get lost every other minute. But we soon sought
safety in a cab, which took us, on our captain's recommendation, to the Horseshoe Tavern, near
the Tower, and here we had to make our plans for the conquest of this giant metropolis.

The neighbourhood in which we found ourselves was such that we decided to leave it with all
possible haste. A very friendly little hunchbacked Jew from Hamburg suggested better quarters
in the West End, and I remember vividly our drive there, in one of the tiny narrow cabs then
in use, the journey lasting fully an hour. They were built to carry two people, who had to
sit facing each other, and we therefore had to lay our big dog crosswise from window to window.
The sights we saw from our whimsical nook surpassed anything we had imagined, and we arrived
at our boarding-house in Old Compton Street agreeably stimulated by the life and the overwhelming
size of the great city. Although at the age of twelve I had made what I supposed to be a translation
of a monologue from Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, I found my knowledge of English quite inadequate
when it came to conversing with the landlady of the King's Arms. But the good dame's social
condition as a sea-captain's widow led her to think she could talk French to me, and her attempts
made me wonder which of us knew least of that language. And then a most disturbing incident
occurred--we missed Robber, who must have run away at the door instead of following us into
the house. Our distress at having lost our good dog after having brought him all the way there
with such difficulty occupied us exclusively during the first two hours we spent in this new
home on land. We kept constant watch at the window until, of a sudden, we joyfully recognised
Robber strolling unconcernedly towards the house from a side street. Afterwards we learned
that our truant had wandered as far as Oxford Street in search of adventures, and I have always
considered his amazing return to a house which he had not even entered as a strong proof of
the absolute certainty of the animal's instincts in the matter of memory.

We now had time to realise the tiresome after-effects of the voyage. The continuous swaying
of the floor and our clumsy efforts to keep from falling we found fairly entertaining; but
when we came to take our well-earned rest in the huge English double bed, and found that that
too rocked up and down, it became quite unbearable. Every time we closed our eyes we sank into
frightful abysses, and, springing up again, cried out for help. It seemed as if that terrible
voyage would go on to the end of our lives. Added to this we felt miserably sick; for, after
the atrocious food on board, we had been only too ready to partake, with less discretion than
relish, of tastier fare.

We were so exhausted by all these trials that we forgot to consider what was, after all, the
vital question--the probable result in hard cash. Indeed, the marvels of the great city proved
so fascinating, that we started off in a cab, for all the world as if we were on a pleasure
trip, to follow up a plan I had sketched on my map of London. In our wonder and delight at
what we saw, we quite forgot all we had gone through. Costly as it proved, I considered our
week's stay justified in view of Minna's need of rest in the first place, and secondly, the
excellent opportunity it afforded me of making acquaintances in the musical world. During my
last visit to Dresden I had sent Rule Britannia, the overture composed at Konigsberg, to Sir
John Smart, president of the Philharmonic Society. It is true he had never acknowledged it,
but I felt it the more incumbent on me to bring him to task about it. I therefore spent some
days trying to find out where he lived, wondering meanwhile in which language I should have
to make myself understood, but as the result of my inquiries I discovered that Smart was not
in London at all. I next persuaded myself that it would be a good thing to look up Bulwer Lytton,
and to come to an understanding about the operatic performance of his novel, Rienzi, which
I had dramatised. Having been told, on the continent, that Bulwer was a member of Parliament,
I went to the House, after a few days, to inquire on the spot. My total ignorance of the English
language stood me in good stead here, and I was treated with unexpected consideration; for,
as none of the lower officials in that vast building could make out what I wanted, I was sent,
step by step, to one high dignitary after the other, until at last I was introduced to a distinguished-looking
man, who came out of a large hall as we passed, as an entirely unintelligible individual. (Minna
was with me all the time; only Robber. had been left behind at the King's Arms.) He asked me
very civilly what I wanted, in French, and seemed favourably impressed when I inquired for
the celebrated author. He was obliged to tell me, however, that he was not in London. I went
on to ask whether I could not be admitted to a debate, but was told that, in consequence of
the old Houses of Parliament having been burnt down, they were using temporary premises where
the space was so limited that only a few favoured visitors could procure cards of admittance.
But on my pressing more urgently he relented, and shortly after opened a door leading direct
into the strangers' seats in the House of Lords. It seemed reasonable to conclude from this
that our friend was a lord in person. I was immensely interested to see and hear the Premier,
Lord Melbourne, and Brougham (who seemed to me to take a very active part in the proceedings,
prompting Melbourne several times, as I thought), and the Duke of Wellington, who looked so
comfortable in his grey beaver hat, with his hands diving deep into his trousers pockets, and
who made his speech in so conversational a tone that I lost my feeling of excessive awe. He
had a curious way, too, of accenting his points of special emphasis by shaking his whole body,
I was also much interested in Lord Lyndhurst, Brougham's particular enemy, and was amazed to
see Brougham go across several times to sit down coolly beside him, apparently with a view
to prompting even his opponent. The matter in hand was, as I learned afterwards from the papers,
the discussion of measures to be taken against the Portuguese Government to ensure the passing
of the Anti-Slavery Bill. The Bishop of London, who was one of the speakers on this occasion,
was the only one of these gentlemen whose voice and manner seemed to me stiff or unnatural,
but possibly I was prejudiced by my dislike of parsons generally.

After this pleasing adventure I imagined I had exhausted the attractions of London for the
present, for although I could not gain admittance to the Lower House, my untiring friend, whom
I came across again as I went out, showed me the room where the Commons sat, explained as much
as was necessary, and gave me a sight of the Speaker's woolsack, and of his mace lying hidden
under the table. He also gave me such careful details of various things that I felt I knew
all there was to know about the capital of Great Britain. I had not the smallest intention
of going to the Italian opera, possibly because I imagined the prices to be too ruinous. We
thoroughly explored all the principal streets, often tiring ourselves out; we shuddered through
a ghastly London Sunday, and wound up with a train trip (our very first) to Gravesend Park,
in the company of the captain of the Thetis. On the 20th of August we crossed over to France
by steamer, arriving the same evening at Boulogne-sur-mer, where we took leave of the sea with
the fervent desire never to go on it again.

We were both of us secretly convinced that we should meet with disappointments in Paris, and
it was partly on that account that we decided to spend a few weeks at or near Boulogne. It
was, in any case, too early in the season to find the various important people whom I proposed
to see, in town; on the other hand, it seemed to me a most fortunate circumstance that Meyerbeer
should happen to be at Boulogne. Also, I had the instrumentation of part of the second act
of Rienzi to finish, and was bent on having at least half of the work ready to show on my arrival
in the costly French capital. We therefore set out to find less expensive accommodation in
the country round Boulogne. Beginning with the immediate neighbourhood, our search ended in
our taking two practically unfurnished rooms in the detached house of a rural wine merchant's,
situated on the main road to Paris at half an hour's distance from Boulogne. We next provided
scanty but adequate furniture, and in bringing our wits to bear upon this matter Minna particularly
distinguished herself. Besides a bed and two chairs, we dug up a table, which, after I had
cleared away my Rienzi papers, served for our meals, which we had to prepare at our own fireside.

While we were here I made my first call on Meyerbeer. I had often read in the papers of his
proverbial amiability, and bore him no ill-will for not replying to my letter. My favourable
opinion was soon to be confirmed, however, by his kind reception of me. The impression he made
was good in every respect, particularly as regards his appearance. The years had not yet given
his features the flabby look which sooner or later mars most Jewish faces, and the fine formation
of his brow round about the eyes gave him an expression of countenance that inspired confidence.
He did not seem in the least inclined to depreciate my intention of trying my luck in Paris
as a composer of opera; he allowed me to read him my libretto for Rienzi, and really listened
up to the end of the third act. He kept the two acts that were complete, saying that he wished
to look them over, and assured me, when I again called on him, of his whole-hearted interest
in my work. Be this as it may, it annoyed me somewhat that he should again and again fall back
on praising my minute handwriting, an accomplishment he considered especially Saxonian. He
promised to give me letters of recommendation to Duponchel, the manager of the Opera House,
and to Habeneck, the conductor. I now felt that I had good cause to extol my good fortune which,
after many vicissitudes, had sent me precisely to this particular spot in France. What better
fortune could have befallen me than to secure, in so short a time, the sympathetic interest
of the most famous composer of French opera! Meyerbeer took me to see Moscheles, who was then
in Boulogne, and also Fraulein Blahedka, a celebrated virtuoso whose name I had known for many
years. I spent a few informal musical evenings at both houses, and thus came into close touch
with musical celebrities, an experience quite new to me.

I had written to my future brother-in-law, Avernarius, in Paris, to ask him to find us suitable
accommodations, and we started on our journey thither on 16th September in the diligence, my
efforts to hoist Robber on to the top being attended by the usual difficulties.

My first impression of Paris proved disappointing in view of the great expectations I had cherished
of that city; after London it seemed to me narrow and confined. I had imagined the famous boulevards
to be much vaster, for instance, and was really annoyed, when the huge coach put us down in
the Rue de la Juissienne, to think that I should first set foot on Parisian soil in such a
wretched little alley. Neither did the Rue Richelieu, where my brother-in-law had his book-shop,
seem imposing after the streets in the west end of London. As for the chambre garnie, which
had been engaged for me in the Rue de la Tonnellerie, one of the narrow side-streets which
link the Rue St. Honore with the Marche des Innocents, I felt positively degraded at having
to take up my abode there. I needed all the consolation that could be derived from an inscription,
placed under a bust of Moliere, which read: maison ou naquit Moliere, to raise my courage after
the mean impression the house had first made upon me. The room, which had been prepared for
us on the fourth floor, was small but cheerful, decently furnished, and inexpensive. From the
windows we could see the frightful bustle in the market below, which became more and more alarming
as we watched it, and I wondered what we were doing in such a quarter.

Shortly after this, Avenarius had to go to Leipzig to bring home his bride, my youngest sister
Cecilia, after the wedding in that city. Before leaving, he gave me an introduction to his
only musical acquaintance, a German holding an appointment in the music department of the Bibliotheque
Royale, named E. G. Anders, who lost no time in looking us up in Moliere's house. He was, as
I soon discovered, a man of very unusual character, and, little as he was able to help me,
he left an affecting and ineffaceable impression on my memory. He was a bachelor in the fifties,
whose reverses had driven him to the sad necessity of earning a living in Paris entirely without
assistance. He had fallen back on the extraordinary bibliographical knowledge which, especially
in reference to music, it had been his hobby to acquire in the days of his prosperity. His
real name he never told me, wishing to guard the secret of that, as of his misfortunes, until
after his death. For the time being he told me only that he was known as Anders, was of noble
descent, and had held property on the Rhine, but that he had lost everything owing to the villainous
betrayal of his gullibility and good-nature. The only thing he had managed to save was his
very considerable library, the size of which I was able to estimate for myself. It filled every
wall of his small dwelling. Even here in Paris he soon complained of bitter enemies; for, in
spite of having come furnished with an introduction to influential people, he still held the
inferior position of an employee in the library. In spite of his long service there and his
great learning, he had to see really ignorant men promoted over his head. I discovered afterwards
that the real reason lay in his unbusinesslike methods, and the effeminacy consequent on the
delicate way in which he had been nurtured in early life, which made him incapable of developing
the energy necessary for his work. On a miserable pittance of fifteen hundred francs a year,
he led a weary existence, full of anxiety. With nothing in view but a lonely old age, and the
probability of dying in a hospital, it seemed as if our society put new life into him; for
though we were poverty-stricken, we looked forward boldly and hopefully to the future. My vivacity
and invincible energy filled him with hopes of my success, and from this time forward he took
a most tender and unselfish part in furthering my interests. Although he was a contributor
to the Gazette Musicale, edited by Moritz Schlesinger, he had never succeeded in making his
influence felt there in the slightest degree. He had none of the versatility of a journalist,
and the editors entrusted him with little besides the preparation of bibliographical notes.
Oddly enough, it was with this unworldly and least resourceful of men that I had to discuss
my plan for the conquest of Paris, that is, of musical Paris, which is made up of all the most
questionable characters imaginable. The result was practically always the same; we merely encouraged
each other in the hope that some unforeseen stroke of luck would help my cause.

To assist us in these discussions Anders called in his friend and housemate Lehrs, a philologist,
my acquaintance with whom was soon to develop into one of the most beautiful friendships of
my life. Lehrs was the younger brother of a famous scholar at Konigsberg. He had left there
to come to Paris some years before, with the object of gaining an independent position by his
philological work. This he preferred, in spite of the attendant difficulties, to a post as
teacher with a salary which only in Germany could be considered sufficient for a scholar's
wants. He soon obtained work from Didot, the bookseller, as assistant editor of a large edition
of Greek classics, but the editor traded on his poverty, and was much more concerned about
the success of his enterprise than about the condition of his poor collaborator. Lehrs had
therefore perpetually to struggle against poverty, but he preserved an even temper, and showed
himself in every way a model of disinterestedness and self-sacrifice. At first he looked upon
me only as a man in need of advice, and incidentally a fellow-sufferer in Paris; for he had
no knowledge of music, and had no particular interest in it. We soon became so intimate that
I had him dropping in nearly every evening with Anders, Lehrs being extremely useful to his
friend, whose unsteadiness in walking obliged him to use an umbrella and a walking-stick as
crutches. He was also nervous in crossing crowded thorough-fares, and particularly so at night;
while he always liked to make Lehrs cross my threshold in front of him to distract the attention
of Robber, of whom he stood in obvious terror. Our usually good-natured dog became positively
suspicious of this visitor, and soon adopted towards him the same aggressive attitude which
he had shown to the sailor Koske on board the Thetis. The two men lived at an hotel garni in
Rue de Seine. They complained greatly of their landlady, who appropriated so much of their
income that they were entirely in her power. Anders had for years been trying to assert his
independence by leaving her, without being able to carry out his plan. We soon threw off mutually
every shred of disguise as to the present state of our finances, so that, although the two
house-holds were actually separated, our common troubles gave us all the intimacy of one united
family.

The various ways by which I might obtain recognition in Paris formed the chief topic of our
discussions at that time. Our hopes were at first centred on Meyerbeer's promised letters of
introduction. Duponchel, the director of the Opera, did actually see me at his office, where,
fixing a monocle in his right eye, he read through Meyerbeer's letter without betraying the
least emotion, having no doubt opened similar communications from the composer many times before.
I went away, and never heard another word from him. The elderly conductor, Habeneck, on the
other hand, took an interest in my work that was not merely polite, and acceded to my request
to have something of mine played at one of the orchestral practises at the Conservatoire as
soon as he should have leisure. I had, unfortunately, no short instrumental piece that seemed
suitable except my queer Columbus Overture, which I considered the most effective of all that
had emanated from my pen. It had been received with great applause on the occasion of its performance
in the theatre at Magdeburg, with the assistance of the valiant trumpeters from the Prussian
garrison. I gave Habeneck the score and parts, and was able to report to our committee at home
that I had now one enterprise on foot.

I gave up the attempt to try and see Scribe on the mere ground of our having had some correspondence,
for my friends had made it clear to me, in the light of their own experience, that it was out
of the question to expect this exceptionally busy author to occupy himself seriously with a
young and unknown musician. Anders was able to introduce me to another acquaintance, however,
a certain M. Dumersan. This grey-haired gentleman had written some hundred vaudeville pieces,
and would have been glad to see one of them performed as an opera on a larger scale before
his death. He had no idea of standing on his dignity as an author, and was quite willing to
undertake the translation of an existing libretto into French verse. We therefore entrusted
him with the writing of my Liebesverbot, with a view to a performance at the Theatre de la
Renaissance, as it was then called. (It was the third existing theatre for lyric drama, the
performances being given in the new Salle Ventadour, which had been rebuilt after its destruction
by fire.) On the understanding that it was to be a literal translation, he at once turned the
three numbers of my opera, for which I hoped to secure a hearing, into neat French verse. Besides
this, he asked me to compose a chorus for a vaudeville entitled La Descente de la Courtille,
which was to be played at the Varietes during the carnival.

This was a second opening. My friends now strongly advised me to write something small in the
way of songs, which I could offer to popular singers for concert purposes. Both Lehrs and Anders
produced words for these. Anders brought a very innocent Dors, mon enfant, written by a young
poet of his acquaintance; this was the first thing I composed to a French text. It was so successful
that, when I had tried it over softly several times on the piano, my wife, who was in bed,
called out to me that it was heavenly for sending one to sleep. I also set L'Attente from Hugo's
Orientales, and Ronsard's song, Mignonne, to music. I have no reason to be ashamed of these
small pieces, which I published subsequently as a musical supplement to Europa (Lewald's publication)
in 1841.

I next stumbled on the idea of writing a grand bass aria with a chorus, for Lablache to introduce
into his part of Orovist in Bellini's Norma. Lehrs had to hunt up an Italian political refugee
to get the text out of him. This was done, and I produced an effective composition a la Bellini
(which still exists among my manuscripts), and went off at once to offer it to Lablache.

The friendly Moor, who received me in the great singer's anteroom, insisted upon admitting
me straight into his master's presence without announcing me. As I had anticipated some difficulty
in getting near such a celebrity, I had written my request, as I thought this would be simpler
than explaining verbally.

The black servant's pleasant manner made me feel very uncomfortable; I entrusted my score and
letter to him to give to Lablache, without taking any notice of his kindly astonishment at
my refusal of his repeated invitation to go into his master's room and have an interview, and
I left the house hurriedly, intending to call for my answer in a few days. When I came back
Lablache received me most kindly, and assured me that my aria was excellent, though it was
impossible to introduce it into Bellini's opera after the latter had already been performed
so very often. My relapse into the domain of Bellini's style, of which I had been guilty through
the writing of this aria, was therefore useless to me, and I soon became convinced of the fruitlessness
of my efforts in that direction. I saw that I should need personal introductions to various
singers in order to ensure the production of one of my other compositions.

When Meyerbeer at last arrived in Paris, therefore, I was delighted. He was not in the least
astonished at the lack of success of his letters of introduction; on the contrary, he made
use of this opportunity to impress upon me how difficult it was to get on in Paris, and how
necessary it was for me to look out for less pretentious work. With this object he introduced
me to Maurice Schlesinger, and leaving me at the mercy of that monstrous person, went back
to Germany.

At first Schlesinger did not know what to do with me; the acquaintances I made through him
(of whom the chief was the violinist Panofka) led to nothing, and I therefore returned to my
advisory board at home, through whose influence I had recently received an order to compose
the music to the Two Grenadiers, by Heine, translated by a Parisian professor. I wrote this
song for baritone, and was very pleased with the result; on Ander's advice I now tried to find
singers for my new compositions. Mme. Pauline Viardot, on whom I first called, went through
my songs with me. She was very amiable, and praised them, but did not see why SHE should sing
them. I went through the same experience with a Mme. Widmann, a grand contralto, who sang my
Dors, mon enfant with great feeling; all the same she had no further use for my composition.
A certain M. Dupont, third tenor at the grand opera, tried my setting of the Ronsard poem,
but declared that the language in which it was written was no longer palatable to the Paris
public. M. Geraldy, a favourite concert singer and teacher, who allowed me to call and see
him frequently, told me that the Two Grenadiers was impossible, for the simple reason that
the accompaniment at the end of the song, which I had modelled upon the Marseillaise, could
only be sung in the streets of Paris to the accompaniment of cannons and gunshots. Habeneck
was the only person who fulfilled his promise to conduct my Columbus Overture at one of the
rehearsals for the benefit of Anders and myself. As, however, there was no question of producing
this work even at one of the celebrated Conservatoire concerts, I saw clearly that the old
gentleman was only moved by kindness and a desire to encourage me. It could not lead to anything
further, and I myself was convinced that this extremely superficial work of my young days could
only give the orchestra a wrong impression of my talents. However, these rehearsals, to my
surprise, made such an unexpected impression on me in other ways that they exercised a decisive
influence in the crisis of my artistic development. This was due to the fact that I listened
repeatedly to Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, which, by dint of untiring practice, received such
a marvellous interpretation at the hands of this celebrated orchestra, that the picture I had
had of it in my mind in the enthusiastic days of my youth now stood before me almost tangibly
in brilliant colours, undimmed, as though it had never been effaced by the Leipzig orchestra
who had slaughtered it under Pohlenz's baton. Where formerly I had only seen mystic constellations
and weird shapes without meaning, I now found, flowing from innumerable sources, a stream of
the most touching and heavenly melodies which delighted my heart.

The whole of that period of the deterioration of my musical tastes which dated, practically
speaking, from those selfsame confusing ideas about Beethoven, and which had grown so much
worse through my acquaintance with that dreadful theatre--all these wrong views now sank down
as if into an abyss of shame and remorse.

This inner change had been gradually prepared by many painful experiences during the last few
years. I owed the recovery of my old vigour and spirits to the deep impression the rendering
of the Ninth Symphony had made on me when performed in a way I had never dreamed of. This important
event in my life can only be compared to the upheaval caused within me when, as a youth of
sixteen, I saw Schroder-Devrient act in Fidelio.

The direct result of this was my intense longing to compose something that would give me a
similar feeling of satisfaction, and this desire grew in proportion to my anxiety about my
unfortunate position in Paris, which made me almost despair of success.

In this mood I sketched an overture to Faust which, according to my original scheme, was only
to form the first part of a whole Faust Symphony, as I had already got the 'Gretchen' idea
in my head for the second movement. This is the same composition that I rewrote in several
parts fifteen years later; I had forgotten all about it, and I owed its reconstruction to the
advice of Liszt, who gave me many valuable hints. This composition has been performed many
times under the title of eine Faust-ouverture, and has met with great appreciation. At the
time of which I am speaking, I hoped that the Conservatoire orchestra would have been willing
to give the work a hearing, but I was told they thought they had done enough for me, and hoped
to be rid of me for some time.

Having failed everywhere, I now turned to Meyerbeer for more introductions, especially to singers.
I was very much surprised when, in consequence of my request, Meyerbeer introduced me to a
certain M. Gouin, a post-office official, and Meyerbeer's sole agent in Paris, whom he instructed
to do his utmost for me. Meyerbeer specially wished me to know M. Antenor Joly, director of
the Theatre de la Renaissance, the musical theatre already mentioned. M. Gouin, with almost
suspicious levity, promised me to produce my opera Liebesverbot, which now only required translation.
There was a question of having a few numbers of my opera sung to the committee of the theatre
at a special audience. When I suggested that some of the singers of this very theatre should
undertake to sing three of the numbers which had been already translated by Dumersan, I was
refused on the plea that all these artists were far too busy. But Gouin saw a way out of the
difficulty; on the authority of Maitre Meyerbeer, he won over to our cause several singers
who were under an obligation to Meyerbeer: Mme. Dorus-Gras, a real primadonna of the Grand
Opera, Mme. Widmann and M. Dupont (the two last-named had previously refused to help me) now
promised to sing for me at this audience.

This much, then, did I achieve in six months. It was now nearly Easter of the year 1840. Encouraged
by Gouin's negotiations, which seemed to spell hope, I made up my mind to move from the obscure
Quartier des Innocents to a part of Paris nearer to the musical centre; and in this I was encouraged
by Lehrs' foolhardy advice.

What this change meant to me, my readers will learn when they hear under what circumstances
we had dragged on our existence during our stay in Paris.

Although we were living in the cheapest possible way, dining at a very small restaurant for
a franc a head, it was impossible to prevent the rest of our money from melting away. Our friend
Moller had given us to understand that we could ask him if we were in need, as he would put
aside for us the first money that came in from any successful business transaction. There was
no alternative but to apply to him for money; in the meantime we pawned all the trinkets we
possessed that were of any value. As I was too shy to make inquiries about a pawnshop, I looked
up the French equivalent in the dictionary in order to be able to recognise such a place when
I saw it. In my little pocket dictionary I could not find any other word than 'Lombard.' On
looking at a map of Paris I found, situated in the middle of an inextricable maze of streets,
a very small lane called Rue des Lombards. Thither I wended my way, but my expedition was fruitless.
Often, on reading by the light of the transparent lanterns the inscription 'Mont de Piete,'
I became very curious to know its meaning, and on consulting my advisory board at home about
this 'Mount of Piety,' [Footnote: This is the correct translation of the words Berg der Frommigkeit
used in the original.--Editor.] I was told, to my great delight, that it was precisely there
that I should find salvation. To this 'Mont de Piete' we now carried all we possessed in the
way of silver, namely, our wedding presents. After that followed my wife's trinkets and the
rest of her former theatrical wardrobe, amongst which was a beautiful silver-embroidered blue
dress with a court train, once the property of the Duchess of Dessau. Still we heard nothing
from our friend Moller, and we were obliged to wait on from day to day for the sorely needed
help from Konigsberg, and at last, one dark day, we pledged our wedding rings. When all hope
of assistance seemed vain, I heard that the pawn-tickets themselves were of some value, as
they could be sold to buyers, who thereby acquired the right to redeem the pawned articles.
I had to resort even to this, and thus the blue court-dress, for instance, was lost for ever.
Moller never wrote again. When later on he called on me at the time of my conductorship in
Dresden, he admitted that he had been embittered against me owing to humiliating and derogatory
remarks we were said to have made about him after we parted, and had resolved not to have anything
further to do with us. We were certain of our innocence in the matter, and very grieved at
having, through pure slander, lost the chance of such assistance in our great need.

At the beginning of our pecuniary difficulties we sustained a loss which we looked upon as
providential, in spite of the grief it caused us. This was our beautiful dog, which we had
managed to bring across to Paris with endless difficulty. As he was a very valuable animal,
and attracted much attention, he had probably been stolen. In spite of the terrible state of
the traffic in Paris, he had always found his way home in the same clever manner in which he
had mastered the difficulties of the London streets. Quite at the beginning of our stay in
Paris he had often gone off by himself to the gardens of the Palais Royal, where he used to
meet many of his friends, and had returned safe and sound after a brilliant exhibition of swimming
and retrieving before an audience of gutter children. At the Quai du Pont-neuf he generally
begged us to let him bathe; there he used to draw a large crowd of spectators round him, who
were so loud in their enthusiasm about the way in which he dived for and brought to land various
objects of clothing, tools, etc., that the police begged us to put an end to the obstruction.
One morning I let him out for a little run as usual; he never returned, and in spite of our
most strenuous efforts to recover him, no trace of him was to be found. This loss seemed to
many of our friends a piece of luck, for they could not understand how it was possible for
us to feed such a huge animal when we ourselves had not enough to eat. About this time, the
second month of our stay in Paris, my sister Louisa came over from Leipzig to join her husband,
Friedrich Brockhaus, in Paris, where he had been waiting for her for some time. They intended
to go to Italy together, and Louisa made use of this opportunity to buy all kinds of expensive
things in Paris. I did not expect them to feel any pity for us on account of our foolish removal
to Paris, and its attendant miseries, or that they should consider themselves bound to help
us in any way; but although we did not try to conceal our position, we derived no benefit from
the visit of our rich relations. Minna was even kind enough to help my sister with her luxurious
shopping, and we were very anxious not to make them think we wanted to rouse their pity. In
return my sister introduced me to an extraordinary friend of hers, who was destined to take
a great interest in me. This was the young painter, Ernst Kietz, from Dresden; he was an exceptionally
kind-hearted and unaffected young man, whose talent for portrait painting (in a sort of coloured
pastel style) had made him such a favourite in his own town, that he had been induced by his
financial successes to come to Paris for a time to finish his art studies. He had now been
working in Delaroche's studio for about a year. He had a curious and almost childlike disposition,
and his lack of all serious education, combined with a certain weakness of character, had made
him choose a career in which he was destined, in spite of all his talent, to fail hopelessly.
I had every opportunity of recognising this, as I saw a great deal of him. At the time, however,
the simple-hearted devotion and kindness of this young man were very welcome both to myself
and my wife, who often felt lonely, and his friendship was a real source of help in our darkest
hours of adversity. He became almost a member of the family, and joined our home circle every
night, providing a strange contrast to nervous old Anders and the grave-faced Lehrs. His good-nature
and his quaint remarks soon made him indispensable to us; he amused us tremendously with his
French, into which he would launch with the greatest confidence, although he could not put
together two consecutive sentences properly, in spite of having lived in Paris for twenty years.
With Delaroche he studied oil-painting, and had obviously considerable talent in this direction,
although it was the very rock on which he stranded. The mixing of the colours on his palette,
and especially the cleaning of his brushes, took up so much of his time that he rarely came
to the actual painting. As the days were very short in midwinter, he never had time to do any
work after he had finished washing his palette and brushes, and, as far as I can remember,
he never completed a single portrait. Strangers to whom he had been introduced, and who had
given him orders to paint their portraits, were obliged to leave Paris without seeing them
even half done, and at last he even complained because some of his sitters died before their
portraits were completed. His landlord, to whom he was always in debt for rent, was the only
creature who succeeded in getting a portrait of his ugly person from the painter, and, as far
as I know, this is the only finished portrait in existence by Kietz. On the other hand, he
was very clever at making little sketches of any subject suggested by our conversation during
the evening, and in these he displayed both originality and delicacy of execution. During the
winter of that year he completed a good pencil portrait of me, which he touched up two years
afterwards when he knew me more intimately, finishing it off as it now stands. It pleased him
to sketch me in the attitude I often assumed during our evening chats when I was in a cheerful
mood. No evening ever passed during which I did not succeed in shaking off the depression caused
by my vain endeavours, and by the many worries I had gone through during the day, and in regaining
my natural cheerfulness, and Kietz was anxious to represent me to the world as a man who, in
spite of the hard times he had to face, had confidence in his success, and rose smiling above
the troubles of life. Before the end of the year 1839, my youngest sister Cecilia also arrived
in Paris with her husband, Edward Avenarius. It was only natural that she should feel embarrassed
at the idea of meeting us in Paris in our extremely straitened circumstances, especially as
her husband was not very well off. Consequently, instead of calling on them frequently, we
preferred waiting until they came to see us, which, by the way, took them a long time. On the
other hand, the renewal of our acquaintance with Heinrich Laube, who came over to Paris at
the beginning of 1840 with his young wife, Iduna (nee Budaus), was very cheering. She was the
widow of a wealthy Leipzig doctor, and Laube had married her under very extraordinary circumstances,
since we last saw him in Berlin; they intended to enjoy themselves for a few months in Paris.
During the long period of his detention, while awaiting his trial, this young lady had been
so touched by his misfortunes that without knowing much of him, she had shown great sympathy
and interest in his case. Laube's sentence was pronounced soon after I left Berlin; it was
unexpectedly light, consisting of only one year's imprisonment in the town gaol. He was allowed
to undergo this term in the prison at Muskau in Silesia, where he had the advantage of being
near his friend, Prince Puckler, who in his official capacity, and on account of his influence
with the governor of the prison, was permitted to afford the prisoner even the consolation
of personal intercourse.

The young widow resolved to marry him at the beginning of his term of imprisonment, so that
she might be near him at Muskau with her loving assistance. To see my old friend under such
favourable conditions was in itself a pleasure to me; I also experienced the liveliest satisfaction
at finding there was no change in his former sympathetic attitude. We met frequently; our wives
also became friends, and Laube was the first to approve in his kindly humorous way of our folly
in moving to Paris.

In his house I made the acquaintance of Heinrich Heine, and both of them joked good-humouredly
over my extraordinary position, making even me laugh. Laube felt himself compelled to talk
seriously to me about my expectations of succeeding in Paris, as he saw that I treated my situation,
based on such trivial hopes, with a humour that charmed him even against his better judgment.
He tried to think how he could help me without prejudicing my future. With this object he wanted
me to make a more or less plausible sketch of my future plans, so that on his approaching visit
to our native land he might procure some help for me. I happened just at that time to have
come to an exceedingly promising understanding with the management of the Theatre de la Renaissance.
I thus seemed to have obtained a footing, and I thought it safe to assert, that if I were guaranteed
the means of livelihood for six months, I could not fail within that period to accomplish something.
Laube promised to make this provision, and kept his word. He induced one of his wealthy friends
in Leipzig, and, following this example, my well-to-do relations, to provide me for six months
with the necessary resources, to be paid in monthly instalments through Avenarius.

We therefore decided, as I have said, to leave our furnished apartments and take a flat for
ourselves in the Rue du Helder. My prudent, careful wife had suffered greatly on account of
the careless and uncertain manner in which I had hitherto controlled our meagre resources,
and in now undertaking the responsibility, she explained that she understood how to keep house
more cheaply than we could do by living in furnished rooms and restaurants. Success justified
the step; the serious part of the question lay in the fact that we had to start housekeeping
without any furniture of our own, and everything necessary for domestic purposes had to be
procured, though we had not the wherewithal to get it. In this matter Lehrs, who was well versed
in the peculiarities of Parisian life, was able to advise us. In his opinion the only compensation
for the experiences we had undergone hitherto would be a success equivalent to my daring. As
I did not possess the resources to allow of long years of patient waiting for success in Paris,
I must either count on extraordinary luck or renounce all my hopes forthwith. The longed-for
success must come within a year, or I should be ruined. Therefore I must dare all, as befitted
my name, for in my case he was not inclined to derive 'Wagner' [Footnote: 'Wagner' in German
means one who dares, also a Wagoner; and 'Fuhrwerk' means a carriage.--Editor.] from Fuhrwerk.
I was to pay my rent, twelve hundred francs, in quarterly instalments; for the furniture and
fittings, he recommended me, through his landlady, to a carpenter who provided everything that
was necessary for what seemed to be a reasonable sum, also to be paid by instalments, all of
which appeared very simple. Lehrs maintained that I should do no good in Paris unless I showed
the world that I had confidence in myself. My trial audience was impending; I felt sure of
the Theatre de la Renaissance, and Dumersan was keenly anxious to make a complete translation
of my Liebesverbot into French. So we decided to run the risk. On 15th April, to the astonishment
of the concierge of the house in the Rue du Helder, we moved with an exceedingly small amount
of luggage into our comfortable new apartments.

The very first visit I received in the rooms I had taken with such high hopes was from Anders,
who came with the tidings that the Theatre de la Renaissance had just gone bankrupt, and was
closed. This news, which came on me like a thunder-clap, seemed to portend more than an ordinary
stroke of bad luck; it revealed to me like a flash of lightning the absolute emptiness of my
prospects. My friends openly expressed the opinion that Meyerbeer, in sending me from the Grand
Opera to this theatre, probably knew the whole of the circumstances. I did not pursue the line
of thought to which this supposition might lead, as I felt cause enough for bitterness when
I wondered what I should do with the rooms in which I was so nicely installed.

As my singers had now practised the portions of Liebesverbot intended for the trial audience,
I was anxious at least to have them performed before some persons of influence. M. Edouard
Monnaie, who had been appointed temporary director of the Grand Opera after Duponchel's retirement,
was the less disposed to refuse as the singers who were to take part belonged to the institution
over which he presided; moreover, there was no obligation attached to his presence at the audience.
I also took the trouble to call on Scribe to invite him to attend, and he accepted with the
kindest alacrity. At last my three pieces were performed before these two gentlemen in the
green room of the Grand Opera, and I played the piano accompaniment. They pronounced the music
charming, and Scribe expressed his willingness to arrange the libretto for me as soon as the
managers of the opera had decided on accepting the piece; all that M. Monnaie had to reply
to this offer was that it was impossible for them to do so at present. I did not fail to realise
that these were only polite expressions; but at all events I thought it very nice of them,
and particularly condescending of Scribe to have got so far as to think me deserving of a little
politeness.

But in my heart of hearts I felt really ashamed of having gone back again seriously to that
superficial early work from which I had taken these three pieces. Of course I had only done
this because I thought I should win success more rapidly in Paris by adapting myself to its
frivolous taste. My aversion from this kind of taste, which had been long growing, coincided
with my abandonment of all hopes of success in Paris. I was placed in an exceedingly melancholy
situation by the fact that my circumstances had so shaped themselves that I dared not express
this important change in my feelings to any one, especially to my poor wife. But if I continued
to make the best of a bad bargain, I had no longer any illusions as to the possibility of success
in Paris. Face to face with unheard-of misery, I shuddered at the smiling aspect which Paris
presented in the bright sunshine of May. It was the beginning of the slack season for any sort
of artistic enterprise in Paris, and from every door at which I knocked with feigned hope I
was turned away with the wretchedly monotonous phrase, Monsieur est a la campagne.

On our long walks, when we felt ourselves absolute strangers in the midst of the gay throng,
I used to romance to my wife about the South American Free States, far away from all this sinister
life, where opera and music were unknown, and the foundations of a sensible livelihood could
easily be secured by industry. I told Minna, who was quite in the dark as to my meaning, of
a book I had just read, Zschokke's Die Grundung von Maryland, in which I found a very seductive
account of the sensation of relief experienced by the European settlers after their former
sufferings and persecutions. She, being of a more practical turn of mind, used to point out
to me the necessity of procuring means for our continued existence in Paris, for which she
had thought out all sorts of economies.

I, for my part, was sketching out the plan of the poem of my Fliegender Hollander, which I
kept steadily before me as a possible means of making a debut in Paris. I put together the
material for a single act, influenced by the consideration that I could in this way confine
it to the simple dramatic developments between the principal characters, without troubling
about the tiresome operatic accessories. From a practical point of view, I thought I could
rely on a better prospect for the acceptance of my proposed work if it were cast in the form
of a one-act opera, such as was frequently given as a curtain raiser before a ballet at the
Grand Opera. I wrote about it to Meyerbeer in Berlin, asking for his help. I also resumed the
composition of Rienzi, to the completion of which I was now giving my constant attention.

In the meantime our position became more and more gloomy; I was soon compelled to draw in advance
on the subsidies obtained by Laube, but in so doing I gradually alienated the sympathy of my
brother-in-law Avenarius, to whom our stay in Paris was incomprehensible.

One morning, when we had been anxiously consulting as to the possibility of raising our first
quarter's rent, a carrier appeared with a parcel addressed to me from London; I thought it
was an intervention of Providence, and broke open the seal. At the same moment a receipt-book
was thrust into my face for signature, in which I at once saw that I had to pay seven francs
for carriage. I recognised, moreover, that the parcel contained my overture Rule Britannia,
returned to me from the London Philharmonic Society. In my fury I told the bearer that I would
not take in the parcel, whereupon he remonstrated in the liveliest fashion, as I had already
opened it. It was no use; I did not possess seven francs, and I told him he should have presented
the bill for the carriage before I had opened the parcel. So I made him return the only copy
of my overture to Messrs. Laffitte and Gaillard's firm, to do what they liked with it, and
I never cared to inquire what became of that manuscript.

Suddenly Kietz devised a way out of these troubles. He had been commissioned by an old lady
of Leipzig, called Fraulein Leplay, a rich and very miserly old maid, to find a cheap lodging
in Paris for her and for his stepmother, with whom she intended to travel. As our apartment,
though not spacious, was larger than we actually needed, and had very quickly become a troublesome
burden to us, we did not hesitate for a moment to let the larger portion of it to her for the
time of her stay in Paris, which was to last about two months. In addition, my wife provided
the guests with breakfast, as though they were in furnished apartments, and took a great pride
in looking at the few pence she earned in this way. Although we found this amazing example
of old-maidishness trying enough, the arrangement we had made helped us in some degree to tide
over the anxious time, and I was able, in spite of this disorganisation of our household arrangements,
to continue working in comparative peace at my Rienzi.

This became more difficult after Fraulein Leplay's departure, when we let one of our rooms
to a German commercial traveller, who in his leisure hours zealously played the flute. His
name was Brix; he was a modest, decent fellow, and had been recommended to us by Pecht the
painter, whose acquaintance we had recently made. He had been introduced to us by Kietz, who
studied with him in Delaroche's studio. He was the very antithesis of Kietz in every way, and
obviously endowed with less talent, yet he grappled with the task of acquiring the art of oil-painting
in the shortest possible time under difficult circumstances with an industry and earnestness
quite out of the common. He was, moreover, well educated, and eagerly assimilated information,
and was very straightforward, earnest, and trustworthy. Without attaining to the same degree
of intimacy with us as our three older friends, he was, nevertheless, one of the few who continued
to stand by us in our troubles, and habitually spent nearly every evening in our company.

One day I received a fresh surprising proof of Laube's continued solicitude on our behalf.
The secretary of a certain Count Kuscelew called on us, and after some inquiry into our affairs,
the state of which he had heard from Laube at Karlsbad, informed us in a brief and friendly
way that his patron wished to be of use to us, and with that object in view desired to make
my acquaintance. In fact, he proposed to engage a small light opera company in Paris, which
was to follow him to his Russian estates. He was therefore looking for a musical director of
sufficient experience to assist in recruiting the members in Paris. I gladly went to the hotel
where the count was staying, and there found an elderly gentleman of frank and agreeable bearing,
who willingly listened to my little French compositions. Being a shrewd reader of human nature,
he saw at a glance that I was not the man for him, and though he showed me the most polite
attention, he went no further into the opera scheme. But that very day he sent me, accompanied
by a friendly note, ten golden napoleons, in payment for my services. What these services were
I did not know. I thereupon wrote to him, and asked for more precise details of his wishes,
and begged him to commission a composition, the fee for which I presumed he had sent in advance.
As I received no reply, I made more than one effort to approach him again, but in vain. From
other sources I afterwards learned that the only kind of opera Count Kuscelew recognised was
Adam's. As for the operatic company to be engaged to suit his taste, what he really wanted
was more a small harem than a company of artists.

So far I had not been able to arrange anything with the music publisher Schlesinger. It was
impossible to persuade him to publish my little French songs. In order to do something, however,
towards making myself known in this direction, I decided to have my Two Grenadiers engraved
by him at my own expense. Kietz was to lithograph a magnificent title-page for it. Schlesinger
ended by charging me fifty francs for the cost of production. The story of this publication
is curious from beginning to end; the work bore Schlesinger's name, and as I had defrayed all
expenses, the proceeds were, of course, to be placed to my account. I had afterwards to take
the publisher's word for it that not a single copy had been sold. Subsequently, when I had
made a quick reputation for myself in Dresden through my Rienzi, Schott the publisher in Mainz,
who dealt almost exclusively in works translated from the French, thought it advisable to bring
out a German edition of the Two Grenadiers. Below the text of the French translation he had
the German original by Heine printed; but as the French poem was a very free paraphrase, in
quite a different metre to the original, Heine's words fitted my composition so badly that
I was furious at the insult to my work, and thought it necessary to protest against Schott's
publication as an entirely unauthorised reprint. Schott then threatened me with an action for
libel, as he said that, according to his agreement, his edition was not a reprint (Nachdruck),
but a reimpression (Abdruck). In order to be spared further annoyance, I was induced to send
him an apology in deference to the distinction he had drawn, which I did not understand.

In 1848, when I made inquiries of Schlesinger's successor in Paris (M. Brandus) as to the fate
of my little work, I learned from him that a new edition had been published, but he declined
to entertain any question of rights on my part. Since I did not care to buy a copy with my
own money, I have to this day had to do without my own property. To what extent, in later years,
others profited by similar transactions relating to the publication of my works, will appear
in due course.

For the moment the point was to compensate Schlesinger for the fifty francs agreed upon, and
he proposed that I should do this by writing articles for his Gazette Musicale.

As I was not expert enough in the French language for literary purposes, my article had to
be translated and half the fee had to go to the translator. However, I consoled myself by thinking
I should still receive sixty francs per sheet for the work. I was soon to learn, when I presented
myself to the angry publisher for payment, what was meant by a sheet. It was measured by an
abominable iron instrument, on which the lines of the columns were marked off with figures;
this was applied to the article, and after careful subtraction of the spaces left for the title
and signature, the lines were added up. After this process had been gone through, it appeared
that what I had taken for a sheet was only half a sheet.

So far so good. I began to write articles for Schlesinger's wonderful paper. The first was
a long essay, De la musique allemande, in which I expressed with the enthusiastic exaggeration
characteristic of me at that time my appreciation of the sincerity and earnestness of German
music. This article led my friend Anders to remark that the state of affairs in Germany must,
indeed, be splendid if the conditions were really as I described. I enjoyed what was to me
the surprising satisfaction of seeing this article subsequently reproduced in Italian, in a
Milan musical journal, where, to my amusement, I saw myself described as Dottissimo Musico
Tedesco, a mistake which nowadays would be impossible. My essay attracted favourable comment,
and Schlesinger asked me to write an article in praise of the arrangement made by the Russian
General Lwoff of Pergolesi's Stabat Mater, which I did as superficially as possible. On my
own impulse I then wrote an essay in a still more amiable vein called Du metier du virtuose
et de l'independance de la composition.

In the meantime I was surprised in the middle of the summer by the arrival of Meyerbeer, who
happened to come to Paris for a fortnight. He was very sympathetic and obliging. When I told
him my idea of writing a one-act opera as a curtain raiser, and asked him to give me an introduction
to M. Leon Pillet, the recently appointed manager of the Grand Opera, he at once took me to
see him, and presented me to him. But alas, I had the unpleasant surprise of learning from
the serious conversation which took place between those two gentlemen as to my future, that
Meyerbeer thought I had better decide to compose an act for the ballet in collaboration with
another musician. Of course I could not entertain such an idea for a moment. I succeeded, however,
in handing over to M. Pillet my brief sketch of the subject of the Flying Dutchman..

Things had reached this point when Meyerbeer again left Paris, this time for a longer period
of absence.

As I did not hear from M. Pillet for quite a long time, I now began to work diligently at my
composition of Rienzi, though, to my great distress, I had often to interrupt this task in
order to undertake certain pot-boiling hack-work for Schlesinger.

As my contributions to the Gazette Musicale proved so unremunerative, Schlesinger one day ordered
me to work out a method for the Cornet a pistons. When I told him about my embarrassment, in
not knowing how to deal with the subject, he replied by sending me five different published
'Methods' for the Cornet a pistons, at that time the favourite amateur instrument among the
younger male population of Paris. I had merely to devise a new sixth method out of these five,
as all Schlesinger wanted was to publish an edition of his own. I was racking my brains how
to start, when Schlesinger, who had just obtained a new complete method, released me from the
onerous task. I was, however, told to write fourteen 'Suites' for the Cornet a pistons--that
is to say, airs out of operas arranged for this instrument. To furnish me with material for
this work, Schlesinger sent me no less than sixty complete operas arranged for the piano. I
looked them through for suitable airs for my 'Suites,' marked the pages in the volumes with
paper strips, and arranged them into a curious-looking structure round my work- table, so that
I might have the greatest possible variety of the melodious material within my reach. When
I was in the midst of this work, however, to my great relief and to my poor wife's consternation,
Schlesinger told me that M. Schlitz, the first cornet player in Paris, who had looked my 'Etudes'
through, preparatory to their being engraved, had declared that I knew absolutely nothing about
the instrument, and had generally adopted keys that were too high, which Parisians would never
be able to use. The part of the work I had already done was, however, accepted, Schlitz having
agreed to correct it, but on condition that I should share my fee with him. The remainder of
the work was then taken off my hands, and the sixty pianoforte arrangements went back to the
curious shop in the Rue Richelieu.

So my exchequer was again in a sorry plight. The distressing poverty of my home grew more apparent
every day, and yet I was now free to give a last touch to Rienzi, and by the 19th of November
I had completed this most voluminous of all my operas. I had decided, some time previously,
to offer the first production of this work to the Court Theatre at Dresden, so that, in the
event of its being a success, I might thus resume my connection with Germany. I had decided
upon Dresden as I knew that there I should have in Tichatschek the most suitable tenor for
the leading part. I also reckoned on my acquaintance with Schroder- Devrient, who had always
been nice to me and who, though her efforts were ineffectual, had been at great pains, out
of regard for my family, to get my Feen introduced at the Court Theatre, Dresden. In the secretary
of the theatre, Hofrat Winkler (known as Theodor Hell), I also had an old friend of my family,
besides which I had been introduced to the conductor, Reissiger, with whom I and my friend
Apel had spent a pleasant evening on the occasion of our excursion to Bohemia in earlier days.
To all these people I now addressed most respectful and eloquent appeals, wrote out an official
note to the director, Herr von Luttichau, as well as a formal petition to the King of Saxony,
and had everything ready to send off.

Meantime, I had not omitted to indicate the exact tempi in my opera by means of a metronome.
As I did not possess such a thing, I had to borrow one, and one morning I went out to restore
the instrument to its owner, carrying it under my thin overcoat. The day when this occurred
was one of the strangest in my life, as it showed in a really horrible way the whole misery
of my position at that time. In addition to the fact that I did not know where to look for
the few francs wherewith Minna was to provide for our scanty household requirements, some of
the bills which, in accordance with the custom in Paris in those days, I had signed for the
purpose of fitting up our apartments, had fallen due. Hoping to get help from one source or
another, I first tried to get those bills prolonged by the holders. As such documents pass
through many hands, I had to call on all the holders across the length and breadth of the city.
That day I was to propitiate a cheese-monger who occupied a fifth-floor apartment in the Cite.
I also intended to ask for help from Heinrich, the brother of my brother-in-law, Brockhaus,
as he was then in Paris; and I was going to call at Schlesinger's to raise the money to pay
for the despatch of my score that day by the usual mail service.

As I had also to deliver the metronome, I left Minna early in the morning after a sad good-bye.
She knew from experience that as I was on a money-raising expedition, she would not see me
back till late at night. The streets were enveloped in a dense fog, and the first thing I recognised
on leaving the house was my dog Robber, who had been stolen from us a year before. At first
I thought it was a ghost, but I called out to him sharply in a shrill voice. The animal seemed
to recognise me, and approached me cautiously, but my sudden movement towards him with outstretched
arms seemed only to revive memories of the few chastisements I had foolishly inflicted on him
during the latter part of our association, and this memory prevailed over all others. He drew
timidly away from me and, as I followed him with some eagerness, he ran, only to accelerate
his speed when he found he was being pursued. I became more and more convinced that he had
recognised me, because he always looked back anxiously when he reached a corner; but seeing
that I was hunting him like a maniac, he started off again each time with renewed energy. Thus
I followed him through a labyrinth of streets, hardly distinguishable in the thick mist, until
I eventually lost sight of him altogether, never to see him again. It was near the church of
St. Roch, and I, wet with perspiration and quite breathless, was still bearing the metronome.
For a while I stood motionless, glaring into the mist, and wondered what the ghostly reappearance
of the companion of my travelling adventures on this day might portend! The fact that he had
fled from his old master with the terror of a wild beast filled my heart with a strange bitterness
and seemed to me a horrible omen. Sadly shaken, I set out again, with trembling limbs, upon
my weary errand.

Heinrich Brockhaus told me he could not help me, and I left him. I was sorely ashamed, but
made a strong effort to conceal the painfulness of my situation. My other undertakings turned
out equally hopeless, and after having been kept waiting for hours at Schlesinger's, listening
to my employer's very trivial conversations with his callers--conversations which he seemed
purposely to protract--I reappeared under the windows of my home long after dark, utterly unsuccessful.
I saw Minna looking anxiously from one of the windows. Half expecting my misfortune she had,
in the meantime, succeeded in borrowing a small sum of our lodger and boarder, Brix, the flute-player,
whom we tolerated patiently, though at some inconvenience to ourselves, as he was a good-natured
fellow. So she was able to offer me at least a comfortable meal. Further help was to come to
me subsequently, though at the cost of great sacrifices on my part, owing to the success of
one of Donizetti's operas, La Favorita, a very poor work of the Italian maestro's, but welcomed
with great enthusiasm by the Parisian public, already so much degenerated. This opera, the
success of which was due mainly to two lively little songs, had been acquired by Schlesinger,
who had lost heavily over Halevy's last operas.

Taking advantage of my helpless situation, of which he was well aware, he rushed into our rooms
one morning, beaming all over with amusing good-humour, called for pen and ink, and began to
work out a calculation of the enormous fees which he had arranged for me! He put down: 'La
Favorita, complete arrangement for pianoforte, arrangement without words, for solo; ditto,
for duet; complete arrangement for quartette; the same for two violins; ditto for a Cornet
a piston. Total fee, frcs. 1100. Immediate advance in cash, frcs. 500.' I could see at a glance
what an enormous amount of trouble this work would involve, but I did not hesitate a moment
to undertake it.

Curiously enough, when I brought home these five hundred francs in hard shining five-franc
pieces, and piled them up on the table for our edification, my sister Cecilia Avenarius happened
to drop in to see us. The sight of this abundance of wealth seemed to produce a good effect
on her, as she had hitherto been rather chary of coming to see us; and after that we used to
see rather more of her, and were often invited to dine with them on Sundays. But I no longer
cared for any amusements. I was so deeply impressed by my past experiences that I made up my
mind to work through this humiliating, albeit profitable task, with untiring energy, as though
it were a penance imposed on me for the expiation of my bygone sins. To save fuel, we limited
ourselves to the use of the bedroom, making it serve as a drawing-room, dining-room, and study,
as well as dormitory. It was only a step from my bed to my work-table; to be seated at the
dining-table, all I had to do was to turn my chair round, and I left my seat altogether only
late at night when I wanted to go to bed again. Every fourth day I allowed myself a short constitutional.
This penitential process lasted almost all through the winter, and sowed the seeds of those
gastric disorders which were to be more or less of a trouble to me for the rest of my life.

In return for the minute and almost interminable work of correcting the score of Donizetti's
opera, I managed to get three hundred francs from Schlesinger, as he could not get any one
else to do it. Besides this, I had to find the time to copy out the orchestra parts of my overture
to Faust, which I was still hoping to hear at the Conservatoire; and by the way of counteracting
the depression produced by this humiliating occupation, I wrote a short story, Eine Pilgerfahrt
zu Beethoven (A Pilgrimage to Beethoven), which appeared in the Gazette Musicale, under the
title Une Visite a Beethoven. Schlesinger told me candidly that this little work had created
quite a sensation, and had been received with very marked approval; and, indeed, it was actually
reproduced, either complete or in parts, in a good many fireside journals.

He persuaded me to write some more of the same kind; and in a sequel entitled Das Ende eines
Musikers in Paris (Un Musicien etranger a Paris) I avenged myself for all the misfortunes I
had had to endure. Schlesinger was not quite so pleased with this as with my first effort,
but it received touching signs of approval from his poor assistant; while Heinrich Heine praised
it by saying that 'Hoffmann would have been incapable of writing such a thing.' Even Berlioz
was touched by it, and spoke of the story very favourably in one of his articles in the Journal
des Debats. He also gave me signs of his sympathy, though only during a conversation, after
the appearance of another of my musical articles entitled Ueber die Ouverture (Concerning Overtures),
mainly because I had illustrated my principle by pointing to Gluck's overture to Iphigenia
in Aulis as a model for compositions of this class.

Encouraged by these signs of sympathy, I felt anxious to become more intimately acquainted
with Berlioz. I had been introduced to him some time previously at Schlesinger's office, where
we used to meet occasionally. I had presented him with a copy of my Two Grenadiers, but could,
however, never learn any more from him concerning what he really thought of it than the fact
that as he could only strum a little on the guitar, he was unable to play the music of my composition
to himself on the piano. During the previous winter I had often heard his grand instrumental
pieces played under his own direction, and had been most favourably impressed by them. During
that winter (1839-40) he conducted three performances of his new symphony, Romeo and Juliet,
at one of which I was present.

All this, to be sure, was quite a new world to me, and I was desirous of gaining some unprejudiced
knowledge of it. At first the grandeur and masterly execution of the orchestral part almost
overwhelmed me. It was beyond anything I could have conceived. The fantastic daring, the sharp
precision with which the boldest combinations--almost tangible in their clearness--impressed
me, drove back my own ideas of the poetry of music with brutal violence into the very depths
of my soul. I was simply all ears for things of which till then I had never dreamt, and which
I felt I must try to realise. True, I found a great deal that was empty and shallow in his
Romeo and Juliet, a work that lost much by its length and form of combination; and this was
the more painful to me seeing that, on the other hand, I felt overpowered by many really bewitching
passages which quite overcame any objections on my part.

During the same winter Berlioz produced his Sinfonie Fantastique and his Harald ('Harold en
Italie'). I was also much impressed by these works; the musical genre-pictures woven into the
first- named symphony were particularly pleasing, while Harald delighted me in almost every
respect..

It was, however, the latest work of this wonderful master, his Trauer-Symphonie fur die Opfer
der Juli-Revolution (Grande Symphonie Funebre et Triomphale), most skilfully composed for massed
military bands during the summer of 1840 for the anniversary of the obsequies of the July heroes,
and conducted by him under the column of the Place de la Bastille, which had at last thoroughly
convinced me of the greatness and enterprise of this incomparable artist. But while admiring
this genius, absolutely unique in his methods, I could never quite shake off a certain peculiar
feeling of anxiety. His works left me with a sensation as of something strange, something with
which I felt I should never be able to be familiar, and I was often puzzled at the strange
fact that, though ravished by his compositions, I was at the same time repelled and even wearied
by them. It was only much later that I succeeded in clearly grasping and solving this problem,
which for years exercised such a painful spell over me.

It is a fact that at that time I felt almost like a little school-boy by the side of Berlioz.
Consequently I was really embarrassed when Schlesinger, determined to make good use of the
success of my short story, told me he was anxious to produce some of my orchestral compositions
at a concert arranged by the editor of the Gazette Musicale. I realised that none of my available
works would in any way be suitable for such an occasion. I was not quite confident as to my
Faust Overture because of its zephyr-like ending, which I presumed could only be appreciated
by an audience already familiar with my methods. When, moreover, I learned that I should have
only a second-rate orchestra--the Valentino from the Casino, Rue St. Honore--and, moreover,
that there could be only one rehearsal, my only alternative lay between declining altogether,
or making another trial with my Columbus Overture, the work composed in my early days at Magdeburg.
I adopted the latter course.

When I went to fetch the score of this composition from Ilabeneck, who had it stored among
the archives of the Conservatoire, he warned me somewhat dryly, though not without kindness,
of the danger of presenting this work to the Parisian public, as, to use his own words, it
was too 'vague.' One great objection was the difficulty of finding capable musicians for the
six cornets required, as the music for this instrument, so skilfully played in Germany, could
hardly, if ever, be satisfactorily executed in Paris. Herr Schlitz, the corrector of my 'Suites'
for Cornet a piston, offered his assistance. I was compelled to reduce my six cornets to four,
and he told me that only two of these could be relied on.

As a matter of fact, the attempts made at the rehearsal to produce those very passages on which
the effect of my work chiefly depended were very discouraging. Not once were the soft high
notes played but they were flat or altogether wrong. In addition to this, as I was not going
to be allowed to conduct the work myself, I had to rely upon a conductor who, as I was well
aware, had fully convinced himself that my composition was the most utter rubbish--an opinion
that seemed to be shared by the whole orchestra. Berlioz, who was present at the rehearsal,
remained silent throughout. He gave me no encouragement, though he did not dissuade me. He
merely said afterwards, with a weary smile, 'that it was very difficult to get on in Paris.'

On the night of the performance (4th February 1841) the audience, which was largely composed
of subscribers to the Gazette Musicale, and to whom, therefore, my literary successes were
not unknown, seemed rather favourably disposed towards me. I was told later on that my overture,
however wearisome it had been, would certainly have been applauded if those unfortunate cornet
players, by continually failing to produce the effective passages, had not excited the public
almost to the point of hostility; for Parisians, for the most part, care only for the skilful
parts of performances, as, for instance, for the faultless production of difficult tones. I
was clearly conscious of my complete failure. After this misfortune Paris no longer existed
for me, and all I had to do was to go back to my miserable bedroom and resume my work of arranging
Donizetti's operas.

So great was my renunciation of the world that, like a penitent, I no longer shaved, and to
my wife's annoyance, for the first and only time in my life allowed my beard to grow quite
long. I tried to bear everything patiently, and the only thing that threatened really to drive
me to despair was a pianist in the room adjoining ours who during the livelong day practised
Liszt's fantasy on Lucia di Lammermoor. I had to put a stop to this torture, so, to give him
an idea of what he made us endure, one day I moved our own piano, which was terribly out of
tune, close up to the party wall. Then Brix with his piccolo-flute played the piano-and- violin
(or flute) arrangement of the Favorita Overture I had just completed, while I accompanied him
on the piano. The effect on our neighbour, a young piano-teacher, must have been appalling.
The concierge told me the next day that the poor fellow was leaving, and, after all, I felt
rather sorry.

The wife of our concierge had entered into a sort of arrangement with us. At first we had occasionally
availed ourselves of her services, especially in the kitchen, also for brushing clothes, cleaning
boots, and so on; but even the slight outlay that this involved was eventually too heavy for
us, and after having dispensed with her services, Minna had to suffer the humiliation of doing
the whole work of the household, even the most menial part of it, herself. As we did not like
to mention this to Brix, Minna was obliged, not only to do all the cooking and washing up,
but even to clean our lodger's boots as well. What we felt most, however, was the thought of
what the concierge and his wife would think of us; but we were mistaken, for they only respected
us the more, though of course we could not avoid a little familiarity at times, Now and then,
therefore, the man would have a chat with me on politics. When the Quadruple Alliance against
France had been concluded, and the situation under Thiers' ministry was regarded as very critical,
my concierge tried to reassure me one day by saying: 'Monsieur, il y a quatre hommes en Europe
qui s'appellent: le roi Louis Philippe, l'empereur d'Autriche, l'empereur de Russie, le roi
de Prusse; eh bien, ces quatre sont des c...; et nous n'aurons pas la guerre.'

Of an evening I very seldom lacked entertainment; but the few faithful friends who came to
see me had to put up with my going on scribbling music till late in the night. Once they prepared
a touching surprise for me in the form of a little party which they arranged for New Year's
Eve (1840). Lehrs arrived at dusk, rang the bell, and brought a leg of veal; Kietz brought
some rum, sugar, and a lemon; Pecht supplied a goose; and Anders two bottles of the champagne
with which he had been presented by a musical instrument-maker in return for a flattering article
he had written about his pianos. Bottles from that stock were produced only on very great occasions.
I soon threw the confounded Favorita aside, therefore, and entered enthusiastically into the fun.

We all had to assist in the preparations, to light the fire in the salon, give a hand to my
wife in the kitchen, and get what was wanted from the grocer. The supper developed into a dithyrambic
orgy. When the champagne was drunk, and the punch began to produce its effects, I delivered
a fiery speech which so provoked the hilarity of the company that it seemed as though it would
never end. I became so excited that I first mounted a chair, and then, by way of heightening
the effect, at last stood on the table, thence to preach the maddest gospel of the contempt
of life together with a eulogy on the South American Free States. My charmed listeners eventually
broke into such fits of sobs and laughter, and were so overcome, that we had to give them all
shelter for the night--their condition making it impossible for them to reach their own homes
in safety. On New Year's Day (1841) I was again busy with my Favorita.

I remember another similar though far less boisterous feast, on the occasion of a visit paid
us by the famous violinist Vieux- temps, an old schoolfellow of Kietz's. We had the great pleasure
of hearing the young virtuoso, who was then greatly feted in Paris, play to us charmingly for
a whole evening--a performance which lent my little salon an unusual touch of 'fashion.' Kietz
rewarded him for his kindness by carrying him on his shoulders to his hotel close by.

We were hard hit in the early part of this year by a mistake I made owing to my ignorance of
Paris customs. It seemed to us quite a matter of course that we should wait until the proper
quarter-day to give notice to our landlady. So I called on the proprietress of the house, a
rich young widow living in one of her own houses in the Marias quarter. She received me, but
seemed much embarrassed, and said she would speak to her agent about the matter, and eventually
referred me to him. The next day I was informed by letter that my notice would have been valid
had it been given two days earlier. By this omission I had rendered myself liable, according
to the agreement, for another year's rent. Horrified by this news, I went to see the agent
himself, and after having been kept waiting for a long time--as a matter of fact they would
not let me in at all--I found an elderly gentleman, apparently crippled by some very painful
malady, lying motionless before me. I frankly told him my position, and begged him most earnestly
to release me from my agreement, but I was merely told that the fault was mine, and not his,
that I had given notice a day too late, and consequently that I must find the rent for the
next year. My concierge, to whom, with some emotion, I related the story of this occurrence,
tried to soothe me by saying: 'J'aurais pu vous dire cela, car voyez, monsieur, cet homme ne
vaut pas l'eau qu'il boit.'

This entirely unforeseen misfortune destroyed our last hopes of getting out of our disastrous
position. We consoled ourselves for awhile with the hope of finding another lodger, but the
fates were once more against us. Easter came, the new term began, and our prospects were as
hopeless as ever. At last our concierge recommended us to a family who were willing to take
the whole of our apartment, furniture included, off our hands for a few months. We gladly accepted
this offer; for, at any rate, it ensured the payment of the rent for the ensuing quarter. We
thought if only we could get away from this unfortunate place we should find some way of getting
rid of it altogether. We therefore decided to find a cheap summer residence for ourselves in
the outskirts of Paris.

Meudon had been mentioned to us as an inexpensive summer resort, and we selected an apartment
in the avenue which joins Meudon to the neighbouring village of Bellevue. We left full authority
with our concierge as to our rooms in Rue du Helder, and settled down in our new temporary
abode as well as we could. Old Brix, the good-natured flutist, had to stay with us again, for,
owing to the fact that his usual receipts had been delayed, he would have been in great straits
had we refused to give him shelter. The removal of our scanty possessions took place on the
29th of April, and was, after all, no more than a flight from the impossible into the unknown,
for how we were going to live during the following summer we had not the faintest idea. Schlesinger
had no work for me, and no other sources were available.

The only help we could hope for seemed to lie in journalistic work which, though rather unremunerative,
had indeed given me the opportunity of making a little success. During the previous winter
I had written a long article on Weber's Freischutz for the Gazette Musicale. This was intended
to prepare the way for the forthcoming first performance of this opera, after recitatives from
the pen of Berlioz had been added to it. The latter was apparently far from pleased at my article.
In the article I could not help referring to Berlioz's absurd idea of polishing up this old-fashioned
musical work by adding ingredients that spoiled its original characteristics, merely in order
to give it an appearance suited to the luxurious repertoire of Opera House. The fact that the
result fully justified my forecasts did not in the least tend to diminish the ill-feeling I
had roused among all those concerned in the production; but I had the satisfaction of hearing
that the famous George Sand had noticed my article. She commenced the introduction to a legendary
story of French provincial life by repudiating certain doubts as to the ability of the French
people to understand the mystic, fabulous element which, as I had shown, was displayed in such
a masterly manner in Freischutz, and she pointed to my article as clearly explaining the characteristics
of that opera.

Another journalistic opportunity arose out of my endeavours to secure the acceptance of my
Rienzi by the Court Theatre at Dresden. Herr Winkler, the secretary of that theatre, whom I
have already mentioned, regularly reported progress; but as editor of the Abendzeitung, a paper
then rather on the wane, he seized the opportunity presented by our negotiations in order to
ask me to send him frequent and gratuitous contributions. The consequence was, that whenever
I wanted to know anything concerning the fate of my opera, I had to oblige him by enclosing
an article for his paper. Now, as these negotiations with the Court Theatre lasted a very long
time, and involved a large number of contributions from me, I often got into the most extraordinary
fixes simply owing to the fact that I was now once more a prisoner in my room, and had been
so for some time, and therefore knew nothing of what was going on in Paris.

I had serious reasons for thus withdrawing from the artistic and social life of Paris. My own
painful experiences and my disgust at all the mockery of that kind of life, once so attractive
to me and yet so alien to my education, had quickly driven me away from everything connected
with it. It is true that the production of the Huguenots, for instance, which I then heard
for the first time, dazzled me very much indeed. Its beautiful orchestral execution, and the
extremely careful and effective mise en scene, gave me a grand idea of the great possibilities
of such perfect and definite artistic means. But, strange to say, I never felt inclined to
hear the same opera again. I soon became tired of the extravagant execution of the vocalists,
and I often amused my friends exceedingly by imitating the latest Parisian methods and the
vulgar exaggerations with which the performances teemed. Those composers, moreover, who aimed
at achieving success by adopting the style which was then in vogue, could not help, either,
incurring my sarcastic criticism. The last shred of esteem which I still tried to retain for
the 'first lyrical theatre in the world' was at last rudely destroyed when I saw how such an
empty, altogether un-French work as Donizetti's Favorita could secure so long and important
a run at this theatre.

During the whole time of my stay in Paris I do not think I went to the opera more than four
times. The cold productions at the Opera Comique, and the degenerate quality of the music produced
there, had repelled me from the start; and the same lack of enthusiasm displayed by the singers
also drove me from Italian opera. The names, often very famous ones, of these artists who sang
the same four operas for years could not compensate me for the complete absence of sentiment
which characterised their performance, so unlike that of Schroder-Devrient, which I so thoroughly
enjoyed. I clearly saw that everything was on the down grade, and yet I cherished no hope or
desire to see this state of decline superseded by a period of newer and fresher life. I preferred
the small theatres, where French talent was shown in its true light; and yet, as the result
of my own longings, I was too intent upon finding points of relationship in them which would
excite my sympathy, for it to be possible for me to realise those peculiar excellences in them
which did not happen to interest me at all. Besides, from the very beginning my own troubles
had proved so trying, and the consciousness of the failure of my Paris schemes had become so
cruelly apparent, that, either out of indifference or annoyance, I declined all invitations
to the theatres. Again and again, much to Minna's regret, I returned tickets for performances
in which Rachel was to appear at the Theatre Francais, and, in fact, saw that famous theatre
only once, when, some time later, I had to go there on business for my Dresden patron, who
wanted some more articles.

I adopted the most shameful means for filling the columns of the Abendzeitung; I just strung
together whatever I happened to hear in the evening from Anders and Lehrs. But as they had
no very exciting adventures either, they simply told me all they had picked up from papers
and table-talk, and this I tried to render with as much piquancy as possible in accordance
with the journalistic style created by Heine, which was all the rage at the time. My one fear
was lest old Hofrath Winkler should some day discover the secret of my wide knowledge of Paris.
Among other things which I sent to his declining paper was a long account of the production
of Freischutz, He was particularly interested in it, as he was the guardian of Weber's children;
and when in one of his letters he assured me that he would not rest until he had got the definite
assurance that Rienzi had been accepted, I sent him, with my most profuse thanks, the German
manuscript of my 'Beethoven' story for his paper. The 1841 edition of this gazette, then published
by Arnold, but now no longer in existence, contains the only print of this manuscript.

My occasional journalistic work was increased by a request from Lewald, the editor of Europa,
a literary monthly, asking me to write something for him. This man was the first who, from
time to time, had mentioned my name to the public. As he used to publish musical supplements
to his elegant and rather widely read magazine, I sent him two of my compositions from Konigsberg
for publication. One of these was the music I had set to a melancholy poem by Scheuerlin, entitled
Der Knabe und der Tannenbaum (a work of which even to-day I am still proud), and my beautiful
Carnevals Lied out of Liebesverbot.

When I wanted to publish my little French compositions--Dors, mon enfant, and the music to
Hugo's Attente and Ronsard's Mignonne-- Lewald not only sent me a small fee--the first I had
ever received for a composition--but commissioned some long articles on my Paris impressions,
which he begged me to write as entertainingly as possible. For his paper I wrote Pariser Amusements
and Pariser Fatalitaten, in which I gave vent in a humorous style, a la Heine, to all my disappointing
experiences in Paris, and to all my contempt for the life led by its inhabitants. In the second
I described the existence of a certain Hermann Pfau, a strange good-for-nothing with whom,
during my early Leipzig days, I had become more intimately acquainted than was desirable. This
man had been wandering about Paris like a vagrant ever since the beginning of the previous
winter, and the meagre income I derived from arrangements of La Favorita was often partly consumed
in helping this completely broken-down fellow. So it was only fair that I should get back a
few francs of the money spent on him in Paris by turning his adventures to some account in
Lewald's newspapers.

When I came into contact with Leon Pillet, the manager of the Opera, my literary work took
yet another direction. After numerous inquiries I eventually discovered that he had taken a
fancy to my draft of the Fliegender Hollander. He informed me of this, and asked me to sell
him the plot, as he was under contract to supply various composers with subjects for operettas.
I tried to explain to Pillet, both verbally and in writing, that he could hardly expect that
the plot would be properly treated except by myself, as this draft was in fact my own idea,
and that it had only come to his knowledge by my having submitted it to him. But it was all
to no purpose. He was obliged to admit quite frankly that the expectations I had cherished
as to the result of Meyerbeer's recommendation to him would not come to anything. He said there
was no likelihood of my getting a commission for a composition, even of a light opera, for
the next seven years, as his already existing contracts extended over that period. He asked
me to be sensible, and to sell him the draft for a small amount, so that he might have the
music written by an author to be selected by him; and he added that if I still wished to try
my luck at the Opera House, I had better see the 'ballet-master,' as he might want some music
for a certain dance. Seeing that I contemptuously refused this proposal, he left me to my own
devices.

After endless and unsuccessful attempts at getting the matter settled, I at last begged Edouard
Monnaie, the Commissaire for the Royal Theatres, who was not only a friend of mine, but also
editor of the Gazette Musicale, to act as mediator. He candidly confessed that he could not
understand Pillet's liking for my plot, which he also was acquainted with; but as Pillet seemed
to like it--though he would probably lose it--he advised me to accept anything for it, as Monsieur
Paul Faucher, a brother-in- law of Victor Hugo's, had had an offer to work out the scheme for
a similar libretto. This gentleman had, moreover, declared that there was nothing new in my
plot, as the story of the Vaisseau Fantome was well known in France. I now saw how I stood,
and, in a conversation with Pillet, at which M. Faucher was present, I said I would come to
an arrangement. My plot was generously estimated by Pillet at five hundred francs, and I received
that amount from the cash office at the theatre, to be subsequently deducted from the author's
rights of the future poet.

Our summer residence in the Avenue de Meudon now assumed quite a definite character. These
five hundred francs had to help me to work out the words and music of my Fliegender Hollander
for Germany, while I abandoned the French Vaisseau Fantome to its fate.

The state of my affairs, which was getting ever worse and worse, was slightly improved by the
settlement of this matter. May and June had gone by, and during these months our troubles had
grown steadily more serious. The lovely season of the year, the stimulating country air, and
the sensation of freedom following upon my deliverance from the wretchedly paid musical hack-work
I had had to do all the winter, wrought their beneficial effects on me, and I was inspired
to write a small story entitled Ein glucklicher Abend. This was translated and published in
French in the Gazette Musicale. Soon, however, our lack of funds began to make itself felt
with a severity that was very discouraging. We felt this all the more keenly when my sister
Cecilia and her husband, following our example, moved to a place quite close to us. Though
not wealthy, they were fairly well-to-do. They came to see us every day, but we never thought
it desirable to let them know how terribly hard-up we were. One day it came to a climax. Being
absolutely without money, I started out, early one morning, to walk to Paris--for I had not
even enough to pay the railway fare thither--and I resolved to wander about the whole day,
trudging from street to street, even until late in the afternoon, in the hope of raising a
five-franc piece; but my errand proved absolutely vain, and I had to walk all the way back
to Meudon again, utterly penniless.

When I told Minna, who came to meet me, of my failure, she informed me in despair that Hermann
Pfau, whom I have mentioned before, had also come to us in the most pitiful plight, and actually
in want of food, and that she had had to give him the last of the bread delivered by the baker
that morning. The only hope that now remained was that, at any rate, my lodger Brix, who by
a singular fate was now our companion in misfortune, would return with some success from the
expedition to Paris which he also had made that morning. At last he, too, returned bathed in
perspiration and exhausted, driven home by the craving for a meal, which he had been unable
to procure in the town, as he could not find any of the acquaintances he went to see. He begged
most piteously for a piece of bread. This climax to the situation at last inspired my wife
with heroic resolution; for she felt it her duty to exert herself to appease at least the hunger
of her menfolk. For the first time during her stay on French soil, she persuaded the baker,
the butcher, and wine-merchant, by plausible arguments, to supply her with the necessaries
of life without immediate cash payment, and Minna's eyes beamed when, an hour later, she was
able to put before us an excellent meal, during which, as it happened, we were surprised by
the Avenarius family, who were evidently relieved at finding us so well provided for.

This extreme distress was relieved for a time, at the beginning of July, by the sale of my
Vaisseau Fantome, which meant my final renunciation of my success in Paris. As long as the
five hundred francs lasted, I had an interval of respite for carrying on my work. The first
object on which I spent my money was on the hire of a piano, a thing of which I had been entirely
deprived for months. My chief intention in so doing was to revive my faith in myself as a musician,
as, ever since the autumn of the previous year, I had exercised my talents as a journalist
and adapter of operas only. The libretto of the Fliegender Hollander, which I had hurriedly
written during the recent period of distress, aroused considerable interest in Lehrs; he actually
declared I would never write anything better, and that the Fliegender Hollander would be my
Don Juan; the only thing now was to find the music for it. As towards the end of the previous
winter I still entertained the hopes of being permitted to treat this subject for the French
Opera, I had already finished some of the words and music of the lyric parts, and had had the
libretto translated by Emile Deschamps, intending it for a trial performance, which, alas,
never took place. These parts were the ballad of Senta, the song of the Norwegian sailors,
and the 'Spectre Song' of the crew of the Fliegender Hollander. Since that time I had been
so violently torn away from the music that, when the piano arrived at my rustic retreat, I
did not dare to touch it for a whole day. I was terribly afraid lest I should discover that
my inspiration had left me--when suddenly I was seized with the idea that I had forgotten to
write out the song of the helmsman in the first act, although, as a matter of fact, I could
not remember having composed it at all, as I had in reality only just written the lyrics. I
succeeded, and was pleased with the result. The same thing occurred with the 'Spinner's Song,'
and when I had written out these two pieces, and, on further reflection, could not help admitting
that they had really only taken shape in my mind at that moment, I was quite delirious with
joy at the discovery. In seven weeks the whole of the music of the Fliegender Hollander, except
the orchestration, was finished.

Thereupon followed a general revival in our circle; my exuberant good spirits astonished every
one, and my Avenarius relations in particular thought I must really be prospering, as I was
such good company. I resumed my long walks in the woods of Meudon, frequently even consenting
to help Minna gather mushrooms, which, unfortunately, were for her the chief charm of our woodland
retreat, though it filled our landlord with terror when he saw us returning with our spoils,
as he felt sure we should be poisoned if we ate them.

My destiny, which almost invariably led me into strange adventures, here once more introduced
me to the most eccentric character to be found not only in the neighbourhood of Meudon, but
even in Paris. This was M. Jadin, who, though he was old enough to be able to say that he remembered
seeing Madame de Pompadour at Versailles, was still vigorous beyond belief. It appeared to
be his aim to keep the world in a constant state of conjecture as to his real age; he made
everything for himself with his own hands, including even a quantity of wigs of every shade,
ranging in the most comic variety from youthful flaxen to the most venerable white, with intermediate
shades of grey; these he wore alternately, as the fancy pleased him. He dabbled in everything,
and I was pleased to find he had a particular fancy for painting. The fact that all the walls
of his rooms were hung with the most childish caricatures of animal life, and that he had even
embellished the outside of his blinds with the most ridiculous paintings, did not disconcert
me in the least; on the contrary, it confirmed my belief that he did not dabble in music, until,
to my horror, I discovered that the strangely discordant sounds of a harp which kept reaching
my ears from some unknown region were actually proceeding from his basement, where he had two
harpsichords of his own invention. He informed me that he had unfortunately neglected playing
them for a long time, but that he now meant to begin practising again assiduously in order
to give me pleasure. I succeeded in dissuading him from this, by assuring him that the doctor
had forbidden me to listen to the harp, as it was bad for my nerves. His figure as I saw him
for the last time remains impressed on my memory, like an apparition from the world of Hoffmann's
fairy-tales. In the late autumn, when we were going back to Paris, he asked us to take with
us on our furniture van an enormous stove-pipe, of which he promised to relieve us shortly.
One very cold day Jadin actually presented himself at our new abode in Paris, in a most preposterous
costume of his own manufacture, consisting of very thin light-yellow trousers, a very short
pale-green dress-coat with conspicuously long tails, projecting lace shirt frills and cuffs,
a very fair wig, and a hat so small that it was constantly dropping off; he wore in addition
a quantity of imitation jewellery--and all this on the undisguised assumption that he could
not go about in fashionable Paris dressed as simply as in the country. He had come for the
stove-pipe; we asked him where the men to carry it were; in reply he simply smiled, and expressed
his surprise at our helplessness; and thereupon took the enormous stove-pipe under his arm
and absolutely refused to accept our help when we offered to assist him in carrying it down
the stairs, though this operation, notwithstanding his vaunted skill, occupied him quite half
an hour. Every one in the house assembled to witness this removal, but he was by no means disconcerted,
and managed to get the pipe through the street door, and then tripped gracefully along the
pavement with it, and disappeared from our sight.

For this short though eventful period, during which I was quite free to give full scope to
my inmost thoughts, I indulged in the consolation of purely artistic creations. I can only
say that, when it came to an end, I had made such progress that I could look forward with cheerful
composure to the much longer period of trouble and distress I felt was in store for me. This,
in fact, duly set in, for I had only just completed the last scene when I found that my five
hundred francs were coming to an end, and what was left was not sufficient to secure me the
necessary peace and freedom from worry for composing the overture; I had to postpone this until
my luck should take another favourable turn, and meanwhile I was forced to engage in the struggle
for a bare subsistence, making efforts of all kinds that left me neither leisure nor peace
of mind. The concierge from the Rue du Helder brought us the news that the mysterious family
to whom we had let our rooms had left, and that we were now once more responsible for the rent.
I had to tell him that I would not under any circumstances trouble about the rooms any more,
and that the landlord might recoup himself by the sale of the furniture we had left there.
This was done at a very heavy loss, and the furniture, the greater part of which was still
unpaid for, was sacrificed to pay the rent of a dwelling which we no longer occupied.

Under the stress of the most terrible privations I still endeavoured to secure sufficient leisure
for working out the orchestration of the score of the Fliegender Hollander. The rough autumn
weather set in at an exceptionally early date; people were all leaving their country houses
for Paris, and, among them, the Avenarius family. We, however, could not dream of doing so,
for we could not even raise the funds for the journey. When M. Jadin expressed his surprise
at this, I pretended to be so pressed with work that I could not interrupt it, although I felt
the cold that penetrated through the thin walls of the house very severely.

So I waited for help from Ernst Castel, one of my old Konigsberg friends, a well-to-do young
merchant, who a short time before had called on us in Meudon and treated us to a luxurious
repast in Paris, promising at the same time to relieve our necessities as soon as possible
by an advance, which we knew was an easy matter to him.

By way of cheering us up, Kietz came over to us one day, with a large portfolio and a pillow
under his arm; he intended to amuse us by working at a large caricature representing myself
and my unfortunate adventures in Paris, and the pillow was to enable him, after his labours,
to get some rest on our hard couch, which he had noticed had no pillows at the head. Knowing
that we had a difficulty in procuring fuel, he brought with him some bottles of rum, to 'warm'
us with punch during the cold evenings; under these circumstances I read Hoffmann's Tales to
him and my wife.

At last I had news from Konigsberg, but it only opened my eyes to the fact that the gay young
dog had not meant his promise seriously. We now looked forward almost with despair to the chilly
mists of approaching winter, but Kietz, declaring that it was his place to find help, packed
up his portfolio, placed it under his arm with the pillow, and went off to Paris. On the next
day he returned with two hundred francs, that he had managed to procure by means of generous
self-sacrifice. We at once set off for Paris, and took a small apartment near our friends,
in the back part of No. 14 Rue Jacob. I afterwards heard that shortly after we left it was
occupied by Proudhon.

We got back to town on 30th October. Our home was exceedingly small and cold, and its chilliness
in particular made it very bad for our health. We furnished it scantily with the little we
had saved from the wreck of the Rue du Holder, and awaited the results of my efforts towards
getting my works accepted and produced in Germany. The first necessity was at all costs to
secure peace and quietness for myself for the short time which I should have to devote to the
overture of the Fliegender Hollander; I told Kietz that he would have to procure the money
necessary for my household expenses until this work was finished and the full score of the
opera sent off. With the aid of a pedantic uncle, who had lived in Paris a long time and who
was also a painter, he succeeded in providing me with the necessary assistance, in instalments
of five or ten francs at a time. During this period I often pointed with cheerful pride to
my boots, which became mere travesties of footgear, as the soles eventually disappeared altogether.

As long as I was engaged on the Dutchman, and Kietz was looking after me, this made no difference,
for I never went out: but when I had despatched my completed score to the management of the
Berlin Court Theatre at the beginning of December, the bitterness of the position could no
longer be disguised. It was necessary for me to buckle to and look for help myself.

What this meant in Paris I learned just about this time from the hapless fate of the worthy
Lehrs. Driven by need such as I myself had had to surmount a year before at about the same
time, he had been compelled on a broiling hot day in the previous summer to scour the various
quarters of the city breathlessly, to get grace for bills he had accepted, and which had fallen
due. He foolishly took an iced drink, which he hoped would refresh him in his distressing condition,
but it immediately made him lose his voice, and from that day he was the victim of a hoarseness
which with terrific rapidity ripened the seeds of consumption, doubtless latent in him, and
developed that incurable disease. For months he had been growing weaker and weaker, filling
us at last with the gloomiest anxiety: he alone believed the supposed chill would be cured,
if he could heat his room better for a time. One day I sought him out in his lodging, where
I found him in the icy-cold room, huddled up at his writing-table, and complaining of the difficulty
of his work for Didot, which was all the more distressing as his employer was pressing him
for advances he had made.

He declared that if he had not had the consolation in those doleful hours of knowing that I
had, at any rate, got my Dutchman finished, and that a prospect of success was thus opened
to the little circle of friends, his misery would have been hard indeed to bear. Despite my
own great trouble, I begged him to share our fire and work in my room. He smiled at my courage
in trying to help others, especially as my quarters offered barely space enough for myself
and my wife. However, one evening he came to us and silently showed me a letter he had received
from Villemain, the Minister of Education at that time, in which the latter expressed in the
warmest terms his great regret at having only just learned that so distinguished a scholar,
whose able and extensive collaboration in Didot's issue of the Greek classics had made him
participator in a work that was the glory of the nation, should be in such bad health and straitened
circumstances. Unfortunately, the amount of public money which he had at his disposal at that
moment for subsidising literature only allowed of his offering him the sum of five hundred
francs, which he enclosed with apologies, asking him to accept it as a recognition of his merits
on the part of the French Government, and adding that it was his intention to give earnest
consideration as to how he might materially improve his position.

This filled us with the utmost thankfulness on poor Lehrs' account, and we looked on the incident
almost as a miracle. We could not help assuming, however, that M. Villemain had been influenced
by Didot, who had been prompted by his own guilty conscience for his despicable exploitation
of Lehrs, and by the prospect of thus relieving himself of the responsibility of helping him.
At the same time, from similar cases within our knowledge, which were fully confirmed by my
own subsequent experience, we were driven to the conclusion that such prompt and considerate
sympathy on the part of a minister would have been impossible in Germany. Lehrs would now have
a fire to work by, but alas! our fears as to his declining health could not be allayed. When
we left Paris in the following spring, it was the certainty that we should never see our dear
friend again that made our parting so painful.

In my own great distress I was again exposed to the annoyance of having to write numerous unpaid
articles for the Abendzeitung, as my patron, Hofrath Winkler, was still unable to give me any
satisfactory account of the fate of my Rienzi in Dresden. In these circumstances I was obliged
to consider it a good thing that Halevy's latest opera was at last a success. Schlesinger came
to us radiant with joy at the success of La Reine de Chypre, and promised me eternal bliss
for the piano score and various other arrangements I had made of this newest rage in the sphere
of opera. So I was again forced to pay the penalty for composing my own Fliegender Hollander
by having to sit down and write out arrangements of Halevy's opera. Yet this task no longer
weighed on me so heavily. Apart from the wellfounded hope of being at last recalled from my
exile in Paris, and thus being able, as I thought, to regard this last struggle with poverty
as the decisive one, the arrangement of Halevy's score was far and away a more interesting
piece of hack-work than the shameful labour I had spent on Donizetti's Favorita.

I paid another visit, the last for a long time to come, to the Grand Opera to hear this Reine
de Chypre. There was, indeed, much for me to smile at. My eyes were no longer shut to the extreme
weakness of this class of work, and the caricature of it that was often produced by the method
of rendering it. I was sincerely rejoiced to see the better side of Halevy again. I had taken
a great fancy to him from the time of his La Juive, and had a very high opinion of his masterly
talent.

At the request of Schlesinger I also willingly consented to write for his paper a long article
on Halevy's latest work. In it I laid particular stress on my hope that the French school might
not again allow the benefits obtained by studying the German style to be lost by relapsing
into the shallowest Italian methods. On that occasion I ventured, by way of encouraging the
French school, to point to the peculiar significance of Auber, and particularly to his Stumme
von Portici, drawing attention, on the other hand, to the overloaded melodies of Rossini, which
often resembled sol-fa exercises. In reading over the proof of my article I saw that this passage
about Rossini had been left out, and M. Edouard Monnaie admitted to me that, in his capacity
as editor of a musical paper, he had felt himself bound to suppress it. He considered that
if I had any adverse criticism to pass on the composer, I could easily get it published in
any other kind of paper, but not in one devoted to the interests of music, simply because such
a passage could not be printed there without seeming absurd. It also annoyed him that I had
spoken in such high terms of Auber, but he let it stand. I had to listen to much from that
quarter which enlightened me for ever with regard to the decay of operatic music in particular,
and artistic taste in general, among Frenchmen of the present day.

I also wrote a longer article on the same opera for my precious friend Winkler at Dresden,
who was still hesitating about accepting my Rienzi. In doing so I intentionally made merry
over a mishap that had befallen Lachner the conductor. Kustner, who was theatrical director
at Munich at the time, with a view to giving his friend another chance, ordered a libretto
to be written for him by St. Georges in Paris, so that, through his paternal care, the highest
bliss which a German composer could dream of might be assured to his protege. Well, it turned
out that when Halevy's Reine de Chypre appeared, it treated the same subject as Lachner's presumably
original work, which had been composed in the meantime. It mattered very little that the libretto
was a really good one, the value of the bargain lay in the fact that it was to be glorified
by Lachner's music. It appeared, however, that St. Georges had, as a matter of fact, to some
extent altered the book sent to Munich, but only by the omission of several interesting features.
The fury of the Munich manager was great, whereupon St. Georges declared his astonishment that
the latter could have imagined he would supply a libretto intended solely for the German stage
at the paltry price offered by his German customer. As I had formed my own private opinion
as to procuring French librettos for operas, and as nothing in the world would have induced
me to set to music even the most effective piece of writing by Scribe or St. Georges, this
occurrence delighted me immensely, and in the best of spirits I let myself go on the point
for the benefit of the readers of the Abendzeitung, who, it is to be hoped, did not include
my future 'friend' Lachner.

In addition, my work on Halevy's opera (Reine de Chypre) brought me into closer contact with
that composer, and was the means of procuring me many an enlivening talk with that peculiarly
good- hearted and really unassuming man, whose talent, alas, declined all too soon. Schlesinger,
in fact, was exasperated at his incorrigible laziness. Halevy, who had looked through my piano
score, contemplated several changes with a view to making it easier, but he did not proceed
with them: Schlesinger could not get the proof-sheets back; the publication was consequently
delayed, and he feared that the popularity of the opera would be over before the work was ready
for the public. He urged me to get firm hold of Halevy very early in the morning in his rooms,
and compel him to set to work at the alterations in my company.

The first time I reached his house at about ten in the morning, I found him just out of bed,
and he informed me that he really must have breakfast first. I accepted his invitation, and
sat down with him to a somewhat luxurious meal; my conversation seemed to appeal to him, but
friends came in, and at last Schlesinger among the number, who burst into a fury at not finding
him at work on the proofs he regarded as so important. Halevy, however, remained quite unmoved.
In the best of good tempers he merely complained of his latest success, because he had never
had more peace than of late, when his operas, almost without exception, had been failures,
and he had not had anything to do with them after the first production. Moreover, he feigned
not to understand why this Reine de Chypre in particular should have been a success; he declared
that Schlesinger had engineered it on purpose to worry him. When he spoke a few words to me
in German, one of the visitors was astonished, whereupon Schlesinger said that all Jews could
speak German. Thereupon Schlesinger was asked if he also was a Jew. He answered that he had
been, but had become a Christian for his wife's sake. This freedom of speech was a pleasant
surprise to me, because in Germany in such cases we always studiously avoided the point, as
discourteous to the person referred to. But as we never got to the proof correcting, Schlesinger
made me promise to give Halevy no peace until we had done them.

The secret of his indifference to success became clear to me in the course of further conversation,
as I learned that he was on the point of making a wealthy marriage. At first I was inclined
to think that Halevy was simply a man whose youthful talent was only stimulated to achieve
one great success with the object of becoming rich; in his case, however, this was not the
only reason, as he was very modest in regard to his own capacity, and had no great opinion
of the works of those more fortunate composers who were writing for the French stage at that
time. In him I thus, for the first time, met with the frankly expressed admission of disbelief
in the value of all our modern creations in this dubious field of art. I have since come to
the conclusion that this incredulity, often expressed with much less modesty, justifies the
participation of all Jews in our artistic concerns. Only once did Halevy speak to me with real
candour, when, on my tardy departure for Germany, he wished me the success he thought my works
deserved.

In the year 1860 I saw him again. I had learned that, while the Parisian critics were giving
vent to the bitterest condemnation of the concerts I was giving at that time, he had expressed
his approval, and this determined me to visit him at the Palais de l'Institut, of which he
had for some time been permanent secretary. He seemed particularly eager to learn from my own
lips what my new theory about music really was, of which he had heard such wild rumours. For
his own part, he said, he had never found anything but music in my music, but with this difference,
that mine had generally seemed very good. This gave rise to a lively discussion on my part,
to which he good-humouredly agreed, once more wishing me success in Paris. This time, however,
he did so with less conviction than when he bade me good-bye for Germany, which I thought was
because be doubted whether I could succeed in Paris. From this final visit I carried away a
depressing sense of the enervation, both moral and aesthetic, which had overcome one of the
last great French musicians, while, on the other hand, I could not help feeling that a tendency
to a hypocritical or frankly impudent exploitation of the universal degeneracy marked all who
could be designated as Halevy's successors.

Throughout this period of constant hack-work my thoughts were entirely bent on my return to
Germany, which now presented itself to my mind in a wholly new and ideal light. I endeavoured
in various ways to secure all that seemed most attractive about the project, or which filled
my soul with longing. My intercourse with Lehrs had, on the whole, given a decided spur to
my former tendency to grapple seriously with my subjects, a tendency which had been counteracted
by closer contact with the theatre. This desire now furnished a basis for closer study of philosophical
questions. I had been astonished at times to hear even the grave and virtuous Lehrs, openly
and quite as a matter of course, give expression to grave doubts concerning our individual
survival after death. He declared that in many great men this doubt, even though only tacitly
held, had been the real incitement to noble deeds. The natural result of such a belief speedily
dawned on me without, however, causing me any serious alarm. On the contrary, I found a fascinating
stimulus in the fact that boundless regions of meditation and knowledge were thereby opened
up which hitherto I had merely skimmed in light-hearted levity.

In my renewed attempts to study the Greek classics in the original, I received no encouragement
from Lehrs. He dissuaded me from doing so with the well-meant consolation, that as I could
only be born once, and that with music in me, I should learn to understand this branch of knowledge
without the help of grammar or lexicon; whereas if Greek were to be studied with real enjoyment,
it was no joke, and would not suffer being relegated to a secondary place.

On the other hand, I felt strongly drawn to gain a closer acquaintance of German history than
I had secured at school. I had Raumer's History of the Hohenstaufen within easy reach to start
upon. All the great figures in this book lived vividly before my eyes. I was particularly captivated
by the personality of that gifted Emperor Frederick II., whose fortunes aroused my sympathy
so keenly that I vainly sought for a fitting artistic setting for them. The fate of his son
Manfred, on the other hand, provoked in me an equally well-grounded, but more easily combated,
feeling of opposition.

I accordingly made a plan of a great five-act dramatic poem, which should also be perfectly
adapted to a musical setting. My impulse to embellish the story with the central figure of
romantic significance was prompted by the fact of Manfred's enthusiastic reception in Luceria
by the Saracens, who supported him and carried him on from victory to victory till he reached
his final triumph, and this, too, in spite of the fact that he had come to them betrayed on
every hand, banned by the Church, and deserted by all his followers during his flight through
Apulia and the Abruzzi.

Even at this time it delighted me to find in the German mind the capacity of appreciating beyond
the narrow bounds of nationality all purely human qualities, in however strange a garb they
might be presented. For in this I recognised how nearly akin it is to the mind of Greece. In
Frederick II. I saw this quality in full flower. A fair-haired German of ancient Swabian stock,
heir to the Norman realm of Sicily and Naples, who gave the Italian language its first development,
and laid a basis for the evolution of knowledge and art where hitherto ecclesiastical fanaticism
and feudal brutality had alone contended for power, a monarch who gathered at his court the
poets and sages of eastern lands, and surrounded himself with the living products of Arabian
and Persian grace and spirit--this man I beheld betrayed by the Roman clergy to the infidel
foe, yet ending his crusade, to their bitter disappointment, by a pact of peace with the Sultan,
from whom he obtained a grant of privileges to Christians in Palestine such as the bloodiest
victory could scarcely have secured.

In this wonderful Emperor, who finally, under the ban of that same Church, struggled hopelessly
and in vain against the savage bigotry of his age, I beheld the German ideal in its highest
embodiment. My poem was concerned with the fate of his favourite son Manfred. On the death
of an elder brother, Frederick's empire had entirely fallen to pieces, and the young Manfred
was left, under papal suzerainty, in nominal possession of the throne of Apulia. We find him
at Capua, in surroundings, and attended by a court, in which the spirit of his great father
survives, in a state of almost effeminate degeneration. In despair of ever restoring the imperial
power of the Hohenstaufen, he seeks to forget his sadness in romance and song. There now appears
upon the scene a young Saracen lady, just arrived from the East, who, by appealing to the alliance
between East and West concluded by Manfred's noble father, conjures the desponding son to maintain
his imperial heritage. She acts the part of an inspired prophetess, and though the prince is
quickly filled with love for her, she succeeds in keeping him at a respectful distance. By
a skilfully contrived flight she snatches him, not only from the pursuit of rebellious Apulian
nobles, but also from the papal ban which is threatening to depose him from his throne. Accompanied
only by a few faithful followers, she guides him through mountain fastnesses, where one night
the wearied son beholds the spirit of Frederick II. passing with feudal array through the Abruzzi,
and beckoning him on to Luceria.

To this district, situated in the Papal States, Frederick had, by a peaceful compact, transplanted
the remnant of his Saracen retainers, who had previously been wreaking terrible havoc in the
mountains of Sicily. To the great annoyance of the Pope, he had handed the town over to them
in fee-simple, thus securing for himself a band of faithful allies in the heart of an ever-
treacherous and hostile country.

Fatima, as my heroine is called, has prepared, through the instrumentality of trusty friends,
a reception for Manfred in this place. When the papal governor has been expelled by a revolution,
he slips through the gateway into the town, is recognised by the whole population as the son
of their beloved Emperor, and, amid wildest enthusiasm, is placed at their head, to lead them
against the enemies of their departed benefactor. In the meantime, while Manfred is marching
on from victory to victory in his reconquest of the whole kingdom of Apulia, the tragic centre
of my action still continues to be the unvoiced longing of the lovelorn victor for the marvellous
heroine.

She is the child of the great Emperor's love for a noble Saracen maiden. Her mother, on her
deathbed, had sent her to Manfred, foretelling that she would work wonders for his glory provided
she never yielded to his passion. Whether Fatima was to know that she was his sister I left
undecided in framing my plot. Meanwhile she is careful to show herself to him only at critical
moments, and then always in such a way as to remain unapproachable. When at last she witnesses
the completion of her task in his coronation at Naples, she determines, in obedience to her
vow, to slip away secretly from the newly anointed king, that she may meditate in the solitude
of her distant home upon the success of her enterprise.

The Saracen Nurreddin, who had been a companion of her youth, and to whose help she had chiefly
owed her success in rescuing Manfred, is to be the sole partner of her flight. To this man,
who loves her with passionate ardour, she had been promised in her childhood. Before her secret
departure she pays a last visit to the slumbering king. This rouses her lover's furious jealousy,
as he construes her act into a proof of unfaithfulness on the part of his betrothed. The last
look of farewell which Fatima casts from a distance at the young monarch, on his return from
his coronation, inflames the jealous lover to wreak instant vengeance for the supposed outrage
upon his honour. He strikes the prophetess to the earth, whereupon she thanks him with a smile
for having delivered her from an unbearable existence. At the sight of her body Manfred realises
that henceforth happiness has deserted him for ever.

This theme I had adorned with many gorgeous scenes and complicated situations, so that when
I had worked it out I could regard it as a fairly suitable, interesting, and effective whole,
especially when compared with other well-known subjects of a similar nature. Yet I could never
rouse myself to sufficient enthusiasm over it to give my serious attention to its elaboration,
especially as another theme now laid its grip upon me. This was suggested to me by a pamphlet
on the 'Venusberg,' which accidentally fell into my hands.

If all that I regarded as essentially German had hitherto drawn me with ever-increasing force,
and compelled me to its eager pursuit, I here found it suddenly presented to me in the simple
outlines of a legend, based upon the old and well-known ballad of 'Tannhauser.' True, its elements
were already familiar to me from Tieck's version in his Phantasus. But his conception of the
subject had flung me back into the fantastic regions created in my mind at an earlier period
by Hoffmann, and I should certainly never have been tempted to extract the framework of a dramatic
work from his elaborate story. The point in this popular pamphlet which had so much weight
with me was that it brought 'Tannhauser,' if only by a passing hint, into touch with 'The Minstrel's
War on the Wartburg.' I had some knowledge of this also from Hoffmann's account in his Serapionsbrudern.
But I felt that the writer had only grasped the old legend in a distorted form, and therefore
endeavoured to gain a closer acquaintance with the true aspect of this attractive story. At
this juncture Lehrs brought me the annual report of the proceedings of the Konigsberg German
Society, in which the 'Wartburg contest' was criticised with a fair amount of detail by Lukas.
Here I also found the original text. Although I could utilise but little of the real setting
for my own purpose, yet the picture it gave me of Germany in the Middle Ages was so suggestive
that I found I had not previously had the smallest conception of what it was like.

As a sequel to the Wartburg poem, I also found in the same copy a critical study, 'Lohengrin,'
which gave in full detail the main contents of that widespread epic.

Thus a whole new world was opened to me, and though as yet I had not found the form in which
I might cope with Lohengrin, yet this image also lived imperishably within me. When, therefore,
I afterwards made a close acquaintance with the intricacies of this legend, I could visualise
the figure of the hero with a distinctness equal to that of my conception of Tannhauser at
this time.

Under these influences my longing for a speedy return to Germany grew ever more intense, for
there I hoped to earn a new home for myself where I could enjoy leisure for creative work.
But it was not yet possible even to think of occupying myself with such grateful tasks. The
sordid necessities of life still bound me to Paris. While thus employed, I found an opportunity
of exerting myself in a way more congenial to my desires. When I was a young man at Prague,
I had made the acquaintance of a Jewish musician and composer called Dessauer--a man who was
not devoid of talent, who in fact achieved a certain reputation, but was chiefly known among
his intimates on account of his hypochondria. This man, who was now in flourishing circumstances,
was so far patronised by Schlesinger that the latter seriously proposed to help him to a commission
for Grand Opera. Dessauer had come across my poem of the Fliegender Hollander, and now insisted
that I should draft a similar plot for him, as M. Leon Pillet's Vaisseau Fantome had already
been given to M. Dietsch, the letter's musical conductor, to set to music. From this same conductor
Dessauer obtained the promise of a like commission, and he now offered me two hundred francs
to provide him with a similar plot, and one congenial to his hypochondriacal temperament.

To meet this wish I ransacked my brain for recollections of Hoffmann, and quickly decided to
work up his Bergwerke von Falun. The moulding of this fascinating and marvellous material succeeded
as admirably as I could wish. Dessauer also felt convinced that the topic was worth his while
to set to music. His dismay was accordingly all the greater when Pillet rejected our plot on
the ground that the staging would be too difficult, and that the second act especially would
entail insurmountable obstacles for the ballet, which had to be given each time. In place of
this Dessauer wished me to compose him an oratorio on 'Mary Magdalene.' As on the day that
he expressed this wish he appeared to be suffering from acute melancholia, so much so that
he declared he had that morning seen his own head lying beside his bed, I thought well not
to refuse his request. I asked him, therefore, to give me time, and I regret to say that ever
since that day I have continued to take it..

It was amid such distractions as these that this winter at length drew to an end, while my
prospects of getting to Germany gradually grew more hopeful, though with a slowness that sorely
tried my patience. I had kept up a continuous correspondence with Dresden respecting Rienzi,
and in the worthy chorus-master Fischer I at last found an honest man who was favourably disposed
to me. He sent me reliable and reassuring reports as to the state of my affairs.

After receiving news, early in January, 1842, of renewed delay, I at last heard that by the
end of February the work would be ready for performance. I was seriously uneasy at this, as
I was afraid of not being able to accomplish the journey by that date. But this news also was
soon contradicted, and the honest Fischer informed me that my opera had had to be postponed
till the autumn of that year. I realised fully that it would never be performed if I could
not be present in person at Dresden. When eventually in March Count Redern, the director of
the Theatre Royal in Berlin, told me that my Fliegender Hollander had been accepted for the
opera there, I thought I had sufficient reason to return to Germany at all costs as soon as
possible.

I had already had various experiences as to the views of German managers on this work. Relying
on the plot, which had pleased the manager of the Paris Opera so much, I had sent the libretto
in the first instance to my old acquaintance Ringelhardt, the director of the Leipzig theatre.
But the man had cherished an undisguised aversion for me since my Liebesverbot. As he could
not this time possibly object to any levity in my subject, he now found fault with its gloomy
solemnity and refused to accept it. As I had met Councillor Kustner, at that time manager of
the Munich Court Theatre, when he was making arrangements about La Reine de Chypre in Paris,
I now sent him the text of the Dutchman with a similar request. He, too, returned it, with
the assurance that it was not suited to German stage conditions, or to the taste of the German
public. As he had ordered a French libretto for Munich, I knew what he meant. When the score
was finished, I sent it to Meyerbeer in Berlin, with a letter for Count Redern, and begged
him, as he had been unable to help me to anything in Paris, in spite of his desire to do so,
to be kind enough to use his influence in Berlin in favour of my composition. I was genuinely
astonished at the truly prompt acceptance of my work two months later, which was accompanied
by very gratifying assurances from the Count, and I was delighted to see in it a proof of Meyerbeer's
sincere and energetic intervention in my favour. Strange to say, on my return to Germany soon
afterwards, I was destined to learn that Count Redern had long since retired from the management
of the Berlin Opera House, and that Kustner of Munich had already been appointed his successor;
the upshot of this was that Count Redern's consent, though very courteous, could not by any
means be taken seriously, as the realisation of it depended not on him but on his successor.
What the result was remains to be seen.

A circumstance that eventually facilitated my long-desired return to Germany, which was now
justified by my good prospects, was the tardily awakened interest taken in my position by the
wealthy members of my family. If Didot had had reasons of his own for applying to the Minister
Villemain for support for Lehrs, so also Avenarius, my brother-in-law in Paris, when he heard
how I was struggling against poverty, one day took it into his head to surprise me with some
quite unexpected help secured by his appeal to my sister Louisa. On 26th December of the fast-waning
year 1841 I went home to Minna carrying a goose under my arm, and in the beak of the bird we
found a five-hundred-franc note. This note had been given me by Avenarius as the result of
a request on my behalf made by my sister Louisa to a friend of hers, a wealthy merchant named
Schletter. This welcome addition to our extremely straitened resources might not in itself
have been sufficient to put me in an exceedingly good-humour, had I not clearly seen in it
the prospect of escaping altogether from my position in Paris. As the leading German managers
had now consented to the performance of two of my compositions, I thought I might seriously
reproach my brother-in-law, Friedrich Brockhaus, who had repulsed me the year before when I
applied to him in great distress, on the ground that he 'disapproved of my profession.' This
time I might be more successful in securing the wherewithal for my return. I was not mistaken,
and when the time came I was supplied from this source with the necessary travelling expenses.

With these prospects, and my position thus improved, I found myself spending the second half
of the winter 1841-42 in high spirits, and affording constant entertainment to the small circle
of friends which my relationship to Avenarius had created around me. Minna and I frequently
spent our evenings with this family and others, amongst whom I have pleasant recollections
of a certain Herr Kuhne, the head of a private school, and his wife. I contributed so greatly
to the success of their little soirees, and was always so willing to improvise dances on the
piano for them to dance to, that I soon ran the risk of enjoying an almost burdensome popularity.

At length the hour struck for my deliverance; the day came on which, as I devoutly hoped, I
might turn my back on Paris for ever. It was the 7th of April, and Paris was already gay with
the first luxuriant buddings of spring. In front of our windows, which all the winter had looked
upon a bleak and desolate garden, the trees were burgeoning, and the birds sang. Our emotion
at parting from our dear friends Anders, Lehrs, and Kietz, however, was great, almost overwhelming.
The first seemed already doomed to an early death, for his health was exceedingly bad, and
he was advanced in years. About Lehrs' condition, as I have already said, there could no longer
be any doubt, and it was dreadful, after so short an experience as the two and a half years
which I had spent in Paris, to see the ravages that want had wrought among good, noble, and
sometimes even distinguished men. Kietz, for whose future I was concerned, less on grounds
of health than of morals, touched our hearts once more by his boundless and almost childlike
good-nature. Fancying, for instance, that I might not have enough money for the journey, he
forced me, in spite of all resistance, to accept another five-franc piece, which was about
all that remained of his own fortune at the moment: he also stuffed a packet of good French
snuff for me into the pocket of the coach, in which we at last rumbled through the boulevards
to the barriers, which we passed but were unable to see this time, because our eyes were blinded
with tears.

PART II

1842-1850

The journey from Paris to Dresden at that time took five days and nights. On the German frontier,
near Forbach, we met with stormy weather and snow, a greeting which seemed inhospitable after
the spring we had already enjoyed in Paris. And, indeed, as we continued our journey through
our native land once more, we found much to dishearten us, and I could not help thinking that
the Frenchmen who on leaving Germany breathed more freely on reaching French soil, and unbuttoned
their coats, as though passing from winter into summer, were not so very foolish after all,
seeing that we, for our part, were now compelled to seek protection against this conspicuous
change of temperature by being very careful to put on sufficient clothing. The unkindness of
the elements became perfect torture when, later on, between Frankfort and Leipzig, we were
swept into the stream of visitors to the Great Easter Fair.

The pressure on the mail-coaches was so great, that for two days and a night, amid ceaseless
storm, snow and rain, we were continually changing from one wretched 'substitute' to another,
thus turning our journey into an adventure of almost the same type as our former voyage at sea.

One solitary flash of brightness was afforded by our view of the Wartburg, which we passed
during the only sunlit hour of this journey. The sight of this mountain fastness, which, from
the Fulda side, is clearly visible for a long time, affected me deeply. A neighbouring ridge
further on I at once christened the Horselberg, and as we drove through the valley, pictured
to myself the scenery for the third act of my Tannhauser. This scene remained so vividly in
my mind, that long afterwards I was able to give Desplechin, the Parisian scene-painter, exact
details when he was working out the scenery under my direction. If I had already been impressed
by the significance of the fact that my first journey through the German Rhine district, so
famous in legend, should have been made on my way home from Paris, it seemed an even more ominous
coincidence that my first sight of Wartburg, which was so rich in historical and mythical associations,
should come just at this moment. The view so warmed my heart against wind and weather, Jews
and the Leipzig Fair, that in the end I arrived, on 12th April, 1842, safe and sound, with
my poor, battered, half-frozen wife, in that selfsame city of Dresden which I had last seen
on the occasion of my sad separation from my Minna, and my departure for my northern place
of exile.

We put up at the 'Stadt Gotha' inn. The city, in which such momentous years of my childhood
and boyhood had been spent, seemed cold and dead beneath the influences of the wild, gloomy
weather. Indeed, everything there that could remind me of my youth seemed dead. No hospitable
house received us. We found my wife's parents living in cramped and dingy lodgings in very
straitened circumstances, and were obliged at once to look about for a small abode for ourselves.
This we found in the Topfergasse for twenty-one marks a month. After paying the necessary business
visits in connection with Rienzi, and making arrangements for Minna during my brief absence,
I set out on 15th April direct for Leipzig, where I saw my mother and family for the first
time in six years.

During this period, which had been so eventful for my own life, my mother had undergone a great
change in her domestic position through the death of Rosalie. She was living in a pleasant
roomy flat near the Brockhaus family, where she was free from all those household cares to
which, owing to her large family, she had devoted so many years of anxious thought. Her bustling
energy, which had almost amounted to hardness, had entirely given place to a natural cheerfulness
and interest in the family prosperity of her married daughters. For the blissful calm of this
happy old age she was mainly indebted to the affectionate care of her son- in-law, Friedrich
Brockhaus, to whom I expressed my heartfelt thanks for his goodness. She was exceedingly astonished
and pleased to see me unexpectedly enter her room. Any bitterness that ever existed between
us had utterly vanished, and her only complaint was that she could not put me up in her house,
instead of my brother Julius, the unfortunate goldsmith, who had none of the qualities that
could make him a suitable companion for her. She was full of hope for the success of my undertaking,
and felt this confidence strengthened by the favourable prophecy which our dear Rosalie had
made about me shortly before her sad death.

For the present, however, I only stayed a few days in Leipzig, as I had first to visit Berlin
in order to make definite arrangements with Count Redern for the performance of the Fliegender
Hollander. As I have already observed, I was here at once destined to learn that the Count
was on the point of retiring from the directorship, and he accordingly referred me for all
further decisions to the new director, Kustner, who had not yet arrived in Berlin. I now suddenly
realised what this strange circumstance meant, and knew that, so far as the Berlin negotiations
went, I might as well have remained in Paris. This impression was in the main confirmed by
a visit to Meyerbeer, who, I found, regarded my coming to Berlin as over hasty. Nevertheless,
he behaved in a kind and friendly manner, only regretting that he was just on the point of
'going away,' a state in which I always found him whenever I visited him again in Berlin.

Mendelssohn was also in the capital about this time, having been appointed one of the General
Musical Directors to the King of Prussia. I also sought him out, having been previously introduced
to him in Leipzig. He informed me that he did not believe his work would prosper in Berlin,
and that he would rather go back to Leipzig. I made no inquiry about the fate of the score
of my great symphony performed at Leipzig in earlier days, which I had more or less forced
upon him so many years ago. On the other hand, he did not betray to me any signs of remembering
that strange offering. In the midst of the lavish comforts of his home he struck me as cold,
yet it was not so much that he repelled me as that I recoiled from him. I also paid a visit
to Rellstab, to whom I had a letter of introduction from his trusty publisher, my brother-in-law
Brockhaus. Here it was not so much smug ease that I encountered; I doubtless felt repulsed
more by the fact that he showed no inclination whatever to interest himself in my affairs.

I grew very low spirited in Berlin. I could almost have wished Commissioner Cerf back again.
Miserable as had been the time I had spent here years before, I had then, at any rate, met
one man, who, for all the bluntness of his exterior, had treated me with true friendliness
and consideration. In vain did I try to call to mind the Berlin through whose streets I had
walked, with all the ardour of youth, by the side of Laube. After my acquaintance with London,
and still more with Paris, this city, with its sordid spaces and pretensions to greatness,
depressed me deeply, and I breathed a hope that, should no luck crown my life, it might at
least be spent in Paris rather than in Berlin.

On my return from this wholly fruitless expedition, I first went to Leipzig for a few days,
where, on this occasion, I stayed with my brother-in-law, Hermann Brockhaus, who was now Professor
of Oriental Languages at the University. His family had been increased by the birth of two
daughters, and the atmosphere of unruffled content, illuminated by mental activity and a quiet
but vivid interest in all things relating to the higher aspects of life, greatly moved my homeless
and vagabond soul. One evening, after my sister had seen to her children, whom she had brought
up very well, and had sent them with gentle words to bed, we gathered in the large richly stocked
library for our evening meal and a long confidential chat. Here I broke out into a violent
fit of weeping, and it seemed as though the tender sister, who five years before had known
me during the bitterest straits of my early married life in Dresden, now really understood
me. At the express suggestion of my brother-in-law Hermann, my family tendered me a loan, to
help me to tide over the time of waiting for the performance of my Rienzi in Dresden. This,
they said, they regarded merely as a duty, and assured me that I need have no hesitation whatever
in accepting it. It consisted of a sum of six hundred marks, which was to be paid me in monthly
instalments for six months. As I had no prospect of being able to reply on any other source
of income, there was every chance of Minna's talent for management being put severely to the
test, if this were to carry us through; it could be done, however, and I was able to return
to Dresden with a great sense of relief.

While I was staying with my relatives I played and sang them the Fliegender Hollander for the
first time connectedly, and seemed to arouse considerable interest by my performance, for when,
later on, my sister Louisa heard the opera in Dresden, she complained that much of the effect
previously produced by my rendering did not come back to her. I also sought out my old friend
Apel again. The poor man had gone stone blind, but he astonished me by his cheeriness and contentment,
and thereby once and for all deprived me of any reason for pitying him. As he declared that
he knew the blue coat I was wearing very well, though it was really a brown one, I thought
it best not to argue the point, and I left Leipzig in a state of wonder at finding every one
there so happy and contented.

When I reached Dresden, on 26th April, I found occasion to grapple more vigorously with my
lot. Here I was enlivened by closer intercourse with the people on whom I had to rely for a
successful production of Rienzi. It is true that the results of my interviews with Luttichau,
the general manager, and Reissiger, the musical conductor, left me cold and incredulous. Both
were sincerely astonished at my arrival in Dresden; and the same might even be said of my frequent
correspondent and patron, Hofrath Winkler, who also would have preferred my remaining in Paris.
But, as has been my constant experience both before and since, help and encouragement have
always come to me from humbler and never from the more exalted ranks of life.

So in this case, too, I met my first agreeable sensation in the overwhelmingly cordial reception
I received from the old chorus- master, Wilhelm Fischer. I had had no previous acquaintance
with him, yet he was the only person who had taken the trouble to read my score carefully,
and had not only conceived serious hopes for the success of my opera, but had worked energetically
to secure its being accepted and practised. The moment I entered his room and told him my name,
he rushed to embrace me with a loud cry, and in a second I was translated to an atmosphere
of hope. Besides this man, I met in the actor Ferdinand Heine and his family another sure foundation
for hearty and, indeed, deep- rooted friendship. It is true that I had known him from childhood,
for at that time he was one of the few young people whom my stepfather Geyer liked to see about
him. In addition to a fairly decided talent for drawing, it was chiefly his pleasant social
gifts that had won him an entrance into our more intimate family circle. As he was very small
and slight, my stepfather nicknamed him DavidCHEN, and under this appellation he used to take
part with great affability and good-humour in our little festivities, and above all in our
friendly excursions into the neighbouring country, in which, as I mentioned in its place, even
Carl Maria von Weber used to join. Belonging to the good old school, he had become a useful,
if not prominent, member of the Dresden stage. He possessed all the knowledge and qualities
for a good stage manager, but never succeeded in inducing the committee to give him that appointment.
It was only as a designer of costumes that he found further scope for his talents, and in this
capacity he was included in the consultations over the staging of Rienzi.

Thus it came about that he had the opportunity of busying himself with the work of a member,
now grown to man's estate, of the very family with whom he had spent such pleasant days in
his youth. He greeted me at once as a child of the house, and we two homeless creatures found
in our memories of this long-lost home the first common basis to our friendship. We generally
spent our evenings with old Fischer at Heine's, where, amid hopeful conversation, we regaled
ourselves on potatoes and herrings, of which the meal chiefly consisted. Schroder-Devrient
was away on a holiday; Tichatschek, who was also on the point of going away, I had just time
to see, and with him I went quickly through a part of his role in Rienzi. His brisk and lively
nature, his glorious voice and great musical talent, gave special weight to his encouraging
assurance that he delighted in the role of Rienzi. Heine also told me that the mere prospect
of having many new costumes, and especially new silver armour, had inspired Tichatschek with
the liveliest desire to play this part, so that I might rely on him under any circumstances.
Thus I could at once give closer attention to the preparations for practice, which was fixed
to begin in the late summer, after the principal singers had returned from their holiday.

I had to make special efforts to pacify my friend Fischer by my readiness to abbreviate the
score, which was excessively lengthy. His intentions in the matter were so honest that I gladly
sat down with him to the wearisome task. I played and sang my score to the astonished man on
an old grand piano in the rehearsing- room of the Court Theatre, with such frantic vigour that,
although he did not mind if the instrument came to grief, he grew concerned about my chest.
Finally, amid hearty laughter, he ceased to argue about cutting down passages, as precisely
where he thought something might be omitted I proved to him with headlong eloquence that it
was precisely here that the main point lay. He plunged with me head over heels into the vast
chaos of sound, against which he could raise no objection, beyond the testimony of his watch,
whose correctness I also ended by disputing. As sops I light-heartedly flung him the big pantomime
and most of the ballet in the second act, whereby I reckoned we might save a whole half-hour.
Thus, thank goodness, the whole monster was at last handed over to the clerks to make a fair
copy of, and the rest was left for time to accomplish.

We next discussed what we should do in the summer, and I decided upon a stay of several months
at Toplitz, the scene of my first youthful flights, whose fine air and baths, I hoped, would
also benefit Minna's health. But before we could carry out this intention I had to pay several
more visits to Leipzig to settle the fate of my Dutchman. On 5th May I proceeded thither to
have an interview with Kustner, the new director of the Berlin Opera, who I had been told had
just arrived there. He was now placed in the awkward position of being about to produce in
Berlin the very opera which he had before declined in Munich, as it had been accepted by his
predecessor in office. He promised me to consider what steps he would take in this predicament.
In order to learn the result of Kustner's deliberations, I determined, on 2nd June, to seek
him out, and this time in Berlin itself. But at Leipzig I found a letter in which he begged
me to wait patiently a little longer for his final verdict. I took advantage of being in the
neighbourhood of Halle to pay a visit to my eldest brother Albert. I was very much grieved
and depressed to find the poor fellow, whom I must give the credit of having the greatest perseverance
and a quite remarkable talent for dramatic song, living in the unworthy and mean circumstances
which the Halle Theatre offered to him and his family. The realisation of conditions into which
I myself had once nearly sunk now filled me with indescribable abhorrence. Still more harrowing
was it to hear my brother speak of this state in tones which showed, alas, only too plainly,
the hopeless submission with which he had already resigned himself to its horrors. The only
consolation I could find was the personality and childlike nature of his step- daughter Johanna,
who was then fifteen, and who sang me Spohr's Rose, wie bist du so schon with great expression
and in a voice of an extraordinarily beautiful quality.

Then I returned to Dresden, and at last, in wonderful weather, undertook the pleasant journey
to Toplitz with Minna and one of her sisters, reaching that place on 9th June, where we took
up our quarters at a second-class inn, the Eiche, at Schonau. Here we were soon joined by my
mother, who paid her usual yearly visit to the warm baths all the more gladly this time because
she knew she would find me there. If she had before had any prejudice against Minna because
of my premature marriage to her, a closer acquaintance with her domestic gifts soon changed
it into respect, and she quickly learned to love the partner of my doleful days in Paris. Although
my mother's vagaries demanded no small consideration, yet what particularly delighted me about
her was the astonishing vivacity of her almost childlike imagination, a faculty she retained
to such a degree that one morning she complained that my relation of the Tannhauser legend
on the previous evening had given her a whole night of pleasant but most tiring sleeplessness.

By dint of appealing letters to Schletter, a wealthy patron of art in Leipzig, I managed to
do something for Kietz, who, had remained behind in misery in Paris, and also to provide Minna
with medical treatment. I also succeeded to a certain extent in ameliorating my own woeful
financial position. Scarcely were these tasks accomplished, when I started off in my old boyish
way on a ramble of several days on foot through the Bohemian mountains, in order that I might
mentally work out my plan of the 'Venusberg' amid the pleasant associations of such a trip.
Here I took the fancy of engaging quarters in Aussig on the romantic Schreckenstein, where
for several days I occupied the little public room, in which straw was laid down for me to
sleep on at night. I found recreation in daily ascents of the Wostrai, the highest peak in
the neighbourhood, and so keenly did the fantastic solitude quicken my youthful spirit, that
I clambered about the ruins of the Schreckenstein the whole of one moonlit night, wrapped only
in a blanket, in order myself to provide the ghost that was lacking, and delighted myself with
the hope of scaring some passing wayfarer.

Here I drew up in my pocket-book the detailed plan of a three-act opera on the 'Venusberg,'
and subsequently carried out the composition of this work in strict accordance with the sketch
I then made.

One day, when climbing the Wostrai, I was astonished, on turning the corner of a valley, to
hear a merry dance tune whistled by a goatherd perched up on a crag. I seemed immediately to
stand among the chorus of pilgrims filing past the goatherd in the valley; but I could not
afterwards recall the goatherd's tune, so I was obliged to help myself out of the matter in
the usual way.

Enriched by these spoils, I returned to Toplitz in a wonderfully cheerful frame of mind and
robust health, but on receiving the interesting news that Tichatschek and Schroder-Devrient
were on the point of returning, I was impelled to set off once more for Dresden. I took this
step, not so much to avoid missing any of the early rehearsals of Rienzi, as because I wanted
to prevent the management replacing it by something else. I left Minna for a time with my mother,
and reached Dresden on 18th July.

I hired a small lodging in a queer house, since pulled down, facing the Maximilian Avenue,
and entered into a fairly lively intercourse with our operatic stars who had just returned.
My old enthusiasm for Schroder-Devrient revived when I saw her again more frequently in opera.
Strange was the effect produced upon me when I heard her for the first time in Gretry's Blaubart,
for I could not help remembering that this was the first opera I had ever seen. I had been
taken to it as a boy of five (also in Dresden), and I still retained my wondrous first impressions
of it. All my earliest childish memories were revived, and I recollected how frequently and
with what emphasis I had myself sung Bluebeard's song: Ha, die Falsche! Die Thure offen! to
the amusement of the whole house, with a paper helmet of my own making on my head. My friend
Heine still remembered it well.

In other respects the operatic performances were not such as to impress me very favourably:
I particularly missed the rolling sound of the fully equipped Parisian orchestra of string
instruments. I also noticed that, when opening the fine new theatre, they had quite forgotten
to increase the number of these instruments in proportion to the enlarged space. In this, as
well as in the general equipment of the stage, which was materially deficient in many respects,
I was impressed by the sense of a certain meanness about theatrical enterprise in Germany,
which became most noticeable when reproductions were given, often with wretched translations
of the text, of the Paris opera repertoire. If even in Paris my dissatisfaction with this treatment
of opera had been great, the feeling which once drove me thither from the German theatres now
returned with redoubled energy. I actually felt degraded again, and nourished within my breast
a contempt so deep that for a time I could hardly endure the thought of signing a lasting contract,
even with one of the most up-to-date of German opera houses, but sadly wondered what steps
I could take to hold my ground between disgust and desire in this strange world.

Nothing but the sympathy inspired by communion with persons endowed with exceptional gifts
enabled me to triumph over my scruples. This statement applies above all to my great ideal,
Schroder-Devrient, in whose artistic triumphs it had once been my most burning desire to be
associated. It is true that many years had elapsed since my first youthful impressions of her
were formed. As regards her looks, the verdict which, in the following winter, was sent to
Paris by Berlioz during his stay in Dresden, was so far correct that her somewhat 'maternal'
stoutness was unsuited to youthful parts, especially in male attire, which, as in Rienzi, made
too great a demand upon the imagination. Her voice, which in point of quality had never been
an exceptionally good medium for song, often landed her in difficulties, and in particular
she was forced, when singing, to drag the time a little all through. But her achievements were
less hampered now by these material hindrances than by the fact that her repertoire consisted
of a limited number of leading parts, which she had sung so frequently that a certain monotony
in the conscious calculation of effect often developed into a mannerism which, from her tendency
to exaggeration, was at times almost painful.

Although these defects could not escape me, yet I, more than any one, was especially qualified
to overlook such minor weaknesses, and realise with enthusiasm the incomparable greatness of
her performances. Indeed, it only needed the stimulus of excitement, which this actress's exceptionally
eventful life still procured, fully to restore the creative power of her prime, a fact of which
I was subsequently to receive striking demonstrations. But I was seriously troubled and depressed
at seeing how strong was the disintegrating effect of theatrical life upon the character of
this singer, who had originally been endowed with such great and noble qualities. From the
very mouth through which the great actress's inspired musical utterances reached me, I was
compelled to hear at other times very similar language to that in which, with but few exceptions,
nearly all heroines of the stage indulge. The possession of a naturally fine voice, or even
mere physical advantages, which might place her rivals on the same footing as herself in public
favour, was more than she could endure; and so far was she from acquiring the dignified resignation
worthy of a great artist, that her jealousy increased to a painful extent as years went on.
I noticed this all the more because I had reason to suffer from it. A fact which caused me
even greater trouble, however, was that she did not grasp music easily, and the study of a
new part involved difficulties which meant many a painful hour for the composer who had to
make her master his work. Her difficulty in learning new parts, and particularly that of Adriano
in Rienzi, entailed disappointments for her which caused me a good deal of trouble.

If, in her case, I had to handle a great and sensitive nature very tenderly, I had, on the
other hand, a very easy task with Tichatschek, with his childish limitations and superficial,
but exceptionally brilliant, talents. He did not trouble to learn his parts by heart, as he
was so musical that he could sing the most difficult music at sight, and thought all further
study needless, whereas with most other singers the work consisted in mastering the score.
Hence, if he sang through a part at rehearsals often enough to impress it on his memory, the
rest, that is to say, everything pertaining to vocal art and dramatic delivery, would follow
naturally. In this way he picked up any clerical errors there might be in the libretto, and
that with such incorrigible pertinacity, that he uttered the wrong words with just the same
expression as if they were correct. He waved aside good- humouredly any expostulations or hints
as to the sense with the remark, 'Ah! that will be all right soon.' And, in fact, I very soon
resigned myself and quite gave up trying to get the singer to use his intelligence in the interpretation
of the part of the hero, for which I was very agreeably compensated by the light- hearted enthusiasm
with which he flung himself into his congenial role, and the irresistible effect of his brilliant
voice.

With the exception of these two actors who played the leading parts, I had only very moderate
material at my disposal. But there was plenty of goodwill, and I had recourse to an ingenious
device to induce Reissiger the conductor to hold frequent piano rehearsals. He had complained
to me of the difficulty he had always found in securing a well-written libretto, and thought
it was very sensible of me to have acquired the habit of writing my own. In his youth he had
unfortunately neglected to do this for himself, and yet this was all he lacked to make a successful
dramatic composer. I feel bound to confess that he possessed 'a good deal of melody'; but this,
he added, did not seem sufficient to inspire the singers with the requisite enthusiasm. His
experience was that Schroder-Devrient, in his Adele de Foix, would render very indifferently
the same final passage with which, in Bellini's Romeo and Juliet, she would put the audience
into an ecstasy. The reason for this, he presumed, must lie in the subject-matter. I at once
promised him that I would supply him with a libretto in which he would be able to introduce
these and similar melodies to the greatest advantage. To this he gladly agreed, and I therefore
set aside for versification, as a suitable text for Reissiger, my Hohe Braut, founded on Konig's
romance, which I had once before submitted to Scribe. I promised to bring Reissiger a page
of verse for every piano rehearsal, and this I faithfully did until the whole book was done.
I was much surprised to learn some time later that Reissiger had had a new libretto written
for him by an actor named Kriethe. This was called the Wreck of the Medusa. I then learned
that the wife of the conductor, who was a suspicious woman, had been filled with the greatest
concern at my readiness to give up a libretto to her husband. They both thought the book was
good and full of striking effects, but they suspected some sort of trap in the background,
to escape from which they must certainly exercise the greatest caution. The result was that
I regained possession of my libretto and was able, later on, to help my old friend Kittl with
it in Prague; he set it to music of his own, and entitled it Die Franzosen vor Nizza. I heard
that it was frequently performed in Prague with great success, though I never saw it myself;
and I was also told at the same time by a local critic that this text was a proof of my real
aptitude as a librettist, and that it was a mistake for me to devote myself to composition.
As regards my Tannhauser, on the other hand, Laube used to declare it was a misfortune that
I had not got an experienced dramatist to supply me with a decent text for my music.

For the time being, however, this work of versification had the desired result, and Reissiger
kept steadily to the study of Rienzi. But what encouraged him even more than my verses was
the growing interest of the singers, and above all the genuine enthusiasm of Tichatschek. This
man, who had been so ready to leave the delights of the theatre piano for a shooting party,
now looked upon the rehearsals of Rienzi as a genuine treat. He always attended them with radiant
eyes and boisterous good- humour. I soon felt myself in a state of constant exhilaration: favourite
passages were greeted with acclamation by the singers at every rehearsal, and a concerted number
of the third finale, which unfortunately had afterwards to be omitted owing to its length,
actually became on that occasion a source of profit to me. For Tichatschek maintained that
this B minor was so lovely that something ought to be paid for it every time, and he put down
a silver penny, inviting the others to do the same, to which they all responded merrily. From
that day forward, whenever we came to this passage at rehearsals, the cry was raised, 'Here
comes the silver penny part,' and Schroder-Devrient, as she took out her purse, remarked that
these rehearsals would ruin her. This gratuity was conscientiously handed to me each time,
and no one suspected that these contributions, which were given as a joke, were often a very
welcome help towards defraying the cost of our daily food. For Minna had returned from Toplitz,
at the beginning of August, accompanied by my mother.

We lived very frugally in chilly lodgings, hopefully awaiting the tardy day of our deliverance.
The months of August and September passed, in preparation for my work, amid frequent disturbances
caused by the fluctuating and scanty repertoire of a German opera house, and not until October
did the combined rehearsals assume such a character as to promise the certainty of a speedy
production. From the very beginning of the general rehearsals with the orchestra we all shared
the conviction that the opera would, without doubt, be a great success. Finally, the full dress
rehearsals produced a perfectly intoxicating effect. When we tried the first scene of the second
act with the scenery complete, and the messengers of peace entered, there was a general outburst
of emotion, and even Schroder-Devrient, who was bitterly prejudiced against her part, as it
was not the role of the heroine, could only answer my questions in a voice stifled with tears.
I believe the whole theatrical body, down to its humblest officials, loved me as though I were
a real prodigy, and I am probably not far wrong in saying that much of this arose from sympathy
and lively fellow-feeling for a young man, whose exceptional difficulties were not unknown
to them, and who now suddenly stepped out of perfect obscurity into splendour. During the interval
at the full dress rehearsal, while other members had dispersed to revive their jaded nerves
with lunch, I remained seated on a pile of boards on the stage, in order that no one might
realise that I was in the quandary of being unable to obtain similar refreshment. An invalid
Italian singer, who was taking a small part in the opera, seemed to notice this, and kindly
brought me a glass of wine and a piece of bread. I was sorry that I was obliged to deprive
him of even his small part in the course of the year, for its loss provoked such ill-treatment
from his wife, that by conjugal tyranny he was driven into the ranks of my enemies. When, after
my flight from Dresden in 1849, I learned that I had been denounced to the police by this same
singer for supposed complicity in the rising which took place in that town, I bethought me
of this breakfast during the Rienzi rehearsal, and felt I was being punished for my ingratitude,
for I knew I was guilty of having brought him into trouble with his wife.

The frame of mind in which I looked forward to the first performance of my work was a unique
experience which I have never felt either before or since. My kind sister Clara fully shared
my feelings. She had been living a wretched middle-class life at Chemnitz, which, just about
this time, she had left to come and share my fate in Dresden. The poor woman, whose undoubted
artistic gifts had faded so early, was laboriously dragging out a commonplace bourgeois existence
as a wife and mother; but now, under the influence of my growing success, she began joyously
to breathe a new life. She and I and the worthy chorus-master Fischer used to spend our evenings
with the Heine family, still over potatoes and herrings, and often in a wonderfully elated
frame of mind. The evening before our first performance I was able to crown our happiness by
myself ladling out a bowl of punch. With mingled tears and laughter we skipped about like happy
children, and then in sleep prepared ourselves for the triumphant day to which we looked forward
with such confidence..

Although on the morning of 20th October, 1842 I had resolved not to disturb any of my singers
by a visit, yet I happened to come across one of them, a stiff Philistine called Risse, who
was playing a minor bass part in a dull but respectable way. The day was rather cool, but wonderfully
bright and sunshiny, after the gloomy weather we had just been having. Without a word this
curious creature saluted me and then remained standing, as though bewitched. He simply gazed
into my face with wonder and rapture, in order to find out, so he at last managed to tell me
in strange confusion, how a man looked who that very day was to face such an exceptional fate.
I smiled and reflected that it was indeed a day of crisis, and promised him that I would soon
drink a glass with him, at the Stadt Hamburg inn, of the excellent wine he had recommended
to me with so much agitation.

No subsequent experience of mine can be compared with the sensations which marked the day of
the first production of Rienzi. At all the first performances of my works in later days, I
have been so absorbed by an only too well-founded anxiety as to their success, that I could
neither enjoy the opera nor form any real estimate of its reception by the public. As for my
subsequent experiences at the general rehearsal of Tristan und Isolde, this took place under
such exceptional circumstances, and its effect upon me differed so fundamentally from that
produced by the first performance of Rienzi, that no comparison can possibly be drawn between
the two.

The immediate success of Rienzi was no doubt assured beforehand. But the emphatic way in which
the audience declared their appreciation was thus far exceptional, that in cities like Dresden
the spectators are never in a position to decide conclusively upon a work of importance on
the first night, and consequently assume an attitude of chilling restraint towards the works
of unknown authors. But this was, in the nature of things, an exceptional case, for the numerous
staff of the theatre and the body of musicians had inundated the city beforehand with such
glowing reports of my opera, that the whole population awaited the promised miracle in feverish
expectation. I sat with Minna, my sister Clara, and the Heine family in a pit-box, and when
I try to recall my condition during that evening, I can only picture it with all the paraphernalia
of a dream. Of real pleasure or agitation I felt none at all: I seemed to stand quite aloof
from my work; whereas the sight of the thickly crowded auditorium agitated me so much, that
I was unable even to glance at the body of the audience, whose presence merely affected me
like some natural phenomenon--something like a continuous downpour of rain--from which I sought
shelter in the farthest corner of my box as under a protecting roof. I was quite unconscious
of applause, and when at the end of the acts I was tempestuously called for, I had every time
to be forcibly reminded by Heine and driven on to the stage. On the other hand, one great anxiety
filled me with growing alarm: I noticed that the first two acts had taken as long as the whole
of Freischutz, for instance. On account of its warlike calls to arms the third act begins with
an exceptional uproar, and when at its close the clock pointed to ten, which meant that the
performance had already lasted full four hours, I became perfectly desperate. The fact that
after this act, also, I was again loudly called, I regarded merely as a final courtesy on the
part of the audience, who wished to signify that they had had quite enough for one evening,
and would now leave the house in a body. As we had still two acts before us, I thought it settled
that we should not be able to finish the piece, and apologised for my lack of wisdom in not
having previously effected the necessary curtailments. Now, thanks to my folly, I found myself
in the unheard-of predicament of being unable to finish an opera, otherwise extremely well
received, simply because it was absurdly long. I could only explain the undiminished zeal of
the singers, and particularly of Tichatschek, who seemed to grow lustier and cheerier the longer
it lasted, as an amiable trick to conceal from me the inevitable catastrophe. But my astonishment
at finding the audience still there in full muster, even in the last act--towards midnight--
filled me with imbounded perplexity. I could no longer trust my eyes or ears, and regarded
the whole events of the evening as a nightmare. It was past midnight when, for the last time,
I had to obey the thunderous calls of the audience, side by side with my trusty singers.

My feeling of desperation at the unparalleled length of my opera was augmented by the temper
of my relatives, whom I saw for a short time after the performance. Friedrich Brockhaus and
his family had come over with some friends from Leipzig, and had invited us to the inn, hoping
to celebrate an agreeable success over a pleasant supper, and possibly to drink my health.
But on arriving, kitchen and cellar were closed, and every one was so worn out that nothing
was to be heard but outcries at the unparalleled case of an opera lasting from six o'clock
till past twelve. No further remarks were exchanged, and we stole away feeling quite stupefied.

About eight the next morning I put in an appearance at the clerks' office, in order that in
case there should be a second performance I might arrange the necessary curtailment of the
parts. If, during the previous summer, I had contested every beat with the faithful chorus-master
Fischer, and proved them all to be indispensable, I was now possessed by a blind rage for striking
out. There was not a single part of my score which seemed any longer necessary--what the audience
had been made to swallow the previous evening now appeared but a chaos of sheer impossibilities,
each and all of which might be omitted without the slightest damage or risk of being unintelligible.
My one thought now was how to reduce my convolution of monstrosities to decent limits. By dint
of unsparing and ruthless abbreviations handed over to the copyist, I hoped to avert a catastrophe,
for I expected nothing less than that the general manager, together with the city and the theatre,
would that very day give me to understand that such a thing as the performance of my Last of
the Tribunes might perhaps be permitted once as a curiosity, but not oftener. All day long,
therefore, I carefully avoided going near the theatre, so as to give time for my heroic abbreviations
to do their salutary work, and for news of them to spread through the city. But at midday I
looked in again upon the copyists, to assure myself that all had been duly performed as I had
ordered. I then learned that Tichatschek had also been there, and, after inspecting the omissions
that I had arranged, had forbidden their being carried out. Fischer, the chorus-master, also
wished to speak to me about them: work was suspended, and I foresaw great confusion. I could
not understand what it all meant, and feared mischief if the arduous task were delayed. At
length, towards evening, I sought out Tichatschek at the theatre. Without giving him a chance
to speak, I brusquely asked him why he had interrupted the copyists' work. In a half-choked
voice he curtly and defiantly rejoined, 'I will have none of my part cut out--it is too heavenly.'
I stared at him blankly, and then felt as though I had been suddenly bewitched: such an unheard-of
testimony to my success could not but shake me out of my strange anxiety. Others joined him,
Fischer radiant with delight and bubbling with laughter. Every one spoke of the enthusiastic
emotion which thrilled the whole city. Next came a letter of thanks from the Commissioner acknowledging
my splendid work. Nothing now remained for me but to embrace Tichatschek and Fischer, and go
on my way to inform Minna and Clara how matters stood.

After a few days' rest for the actors, the second performance took place on 26th October, but
with various curtailments, for which I had great difficulty in obtaining Tichatschek's consent.
Although it was still of much more than average length, I heard no particular complaints, and
at last adopted Tichatschek's view that, if he could stand it, so could the audience. For six
performances therefore, all of which continued to receive a similar avalanche of applause,
I let the matter run its course.

My opera, however, had also excited interest among the elder princesses of the royal family.
They thought its exhausting length a drawback, but were nevertheless unwilling to miss any
of it. Luttichau consequently proposed that I should give the piece at full length, but half
of it at a time on two successive evenings. This suited me very well, and after an interval
of a few weeks we announced Rienzi's Greatness for the first day, and His Fall for the second.
The first evening we gave two acts, and on the second three, and for the latter I composed
a special introductory prelude. This met with the entire approval of our august patrons, and
especially of the two eldest, Princesses Amalie and Augusta. The public, on the contrary, simply
regarded this in the light of now being asked to pay two entrance fees for one opera, and pronounced
the new arrangement a decided fraud. Its annoyance at the change was so great that it actually
threatened to be fatal to the attendance, and after three performances of the divided Rienzi
the management was obliged to go back to the old arrangement, which I willingly made possible
by introducing my cuttings again.

From this time forward the piece used to fill the house to overflowing as often as it could
be presented, and the permanence of its success became still more obvious when I began to realise
the envy it drew upon me from many different quarters. My first experience of this was truly
painful, and came from the hands of the poet, Julius Mosen, on the very day after the first
performance. When I first reached Dresden in the summer I had sought him out, and, having a
really high opinion of his talent, our intercourse soon became more intimate, and was the means
of giving me much pleasure and instruction. He had shown me a volume of his plays, which on
the whole appealed to me exceptionally. Among these was a tragedy, Cola Rienzi, dealing with
the same subject as my opera, and in a manner partly new to me, and which I thought effective.
With reference to this poem, I had begged him to take no notice of my libretto, as in the quality
of its poetry it could not possibly bear comparison with his own; and it cost him little sacrifice
to grant the request. It happened that just before the first performance of my Rienzi, he had
produced in Dresden Bernhard von Weimar, one of his least happy pieces, the result of which
had brought him little pleasure. Dramatically it was a thing with no life in it, aiming only
at political harangue, and had shared the inevitable fate of all such aberrations. He had therefore
awaited the appearance of my Rienzi with some vexation, and confessed to me his bitter chagrin
at not being able to procure the acceptance of his tragedy of the same name in Dresden. This,
he presumed, arose from its somewhat pronounced political tendency, which, certainly in a spoken
play on a similar subject, would be more noticeable than in an opera, where from the very start
no one pays any heed to the words. I had genially confirmed him in this depreciation of the
subject matter in opera; and was therefore the more startled when, on finding him at my sister
Louisa's the day after the first performance, he straightway overwhelmed me with a scornful
outburst of irritation at my success. But he found in me a strange sense of the essential unreality
in opera of such a subject as that which I had just illustrated with so much success in Rienzi,
so that, oppressed by a secret sense of shame, I had no serious rejoinder to offer to his candidly
poisonous abuse. My line of defence was not yet sufficiently clear in my own mind to be available
offhand, nor was it yet backed by so obvious a product of my own peculiar genius that I could
venture to quote it. Moreover, my first impulse was only one of pity for the unlucky playwright,
which I felt all the more constrained to express, because his burst of fury gave me the inward
satisfaction of knowing that he recognised my great success, of which I was not yet quite clear
myself.

But this first performance of Rienzi did far more than this. It gave occasion for controversy,
and made an ever-widening breach between myself and the newspaper critics. Herr Karl Bank,
who for some time had been the chief musical critic in Dresden, had been known to me before
at Magdeburg, where he once visited me and listened with delight to my playing of several fairly
long passages from my Liebesverbot. When we met again in Dresden, this man could not forgive
me for having been unable to procure him tickets for the first performance of Rienzi. The same
thing happened with a certain Herr Julius Schladebach, who likewise settled in Dresden about
that time as a critic. Though I was always anxious to be gracious to everybody, yet I felt
just then an invincible repugnance for showing special deference to any man because he was
a critic. As time went on, I carried this rule to the point of almost systematic rudeness,
and was consequently all my life through the victim of unprecedented persecution from the press.
As yet, however, this ill-will had not become pronounced, for at that time journalism had not
begun to give itself airs in Dresden. There were so few contributions sent from there to the
outside press that our artistic doings excited very little notice elsewhere, a fact which was
certainly not without its disadvantages for me. Thus for the present the unpleasant side of
my success scarcely affected me at all, and for a brief space I felt myself, for the first
and only time in my life, so pleasantly borne along on the breath of general good-will, that
all my former troubles seemed amply requited.

For further and quite unexpected fruits of my success now appeared with astonishing rapidity,
though not so much in the form of material profit, which for the present resolved itself into
nine hundred marks, paid me by the General Board as an exceptional fee instead of the usual
twenty golden louis. Nor did I dare to cherish the hope of selling my work advantageously to
a publisher, until it had been performed in some other important towns. But fate willed it,
that by the sudden death of Rastrelli, royal director of music, which occurred shortly after
the first production of Rienzi, an office should unexpectedly become vacant, for the filling
of which all eyes at once turned to me.

While the negotiations over this matter were slowly proceeding, the General Board gave proof
in another direction of an almost passionate interest in my talents. They insisted that the
first performance of the Fliegender Hollander should on no account be conceded to the Berlin
opera, but reserved as an honour for Dresden. As the Berlin authorities raised no obstacle,
I very gladly handed over my latest work also to the Dresden theatre. If in this I had to dispense
with Tichatschek's assistance, as there was no leading tenor part in the play, I could count
all the more surely on the helpful co-operation of Schroder-Devrient, to whom a worthier task
was assigned in the leading female part than that which she had had in Rienzi. I was glad to
be able thus to rely entirely upon her, as she had grown strangely out of humour with me, owing
to her scanty share in the success of Rienzi. The completeness of my faith in her I proved
with an exaggeration by no means advantageous to my own work, by simply forcing the leading
male part on Wachter, a once capable, but now somewhat delicate baritone. He was in every respect
wholly unsuited to the task, and only accepted it with unfeigned hesitation. On submitting
my play to my adored prima donna, I was much relieved to find that its poetry made a special
appeal to her. Thanks to the genuine personal interest awakened in me under very peculiar circumstances
by the character and fate of this exceptional woman, our study of the part of Senta, which
often brought us into close contact, became one of the most thrilling and momentously instructive
periods of my life.

It is true that the great actress, especially when under the influence of her famous mother,
Sophie Schroder, who was just then with her on a visit, showed undisguised vexation at my having
composed so brilliant a work as Rienzi for Dresden without having specifically reserved the
principal part for her. Yet the magnanimity of her disposition triumphed even over this selfish
impulse: she loudly proclaimed me 'a genius,' and honoured me with that special confidence
which, she said, none but a genius should enjoy. But when she invited me to become both the
accomplice and adviser in her really dreadful love affairs, this confidence certainly began
to have its risky side; nevertheless there were at first occasions on which she openly proclaimed
herself before all the world as my friend, making most flattering distinctions in my favour.

First of all I had to accompany her on a trip to Leipzig, where she was giving a concert for
her mother's benefit, which she thought to make particularly attractive by including in its
programme two selections from Rienzi--the aria of Adriano and the hero's prayer (the latter
sung by Tichatschek), and both under my personal conductorship. Mendelssohn, who was also on
very friendly terms with her, had been enticed to this concert too, and produced his overture
to Ruy Blas, then quite new. It was during the two busy days spent on this occasion in Leipzig
that I first came into close contact with him, all my previous knowledge of him having been
limited to a few rare and altogether profitless visits. At the house of my brother-in-law,
Fritz Brockhaus, he and Devrient gave us a good deal of music, he playing her accompaniment
to a number of Schubert's songs. I here became conscious of the peculiar unrest and excitement
with which this master of music, who, though still young, had already reached the zenith of
his fame and life's work, observed or rather watched me. I could see clearly that he thought
but little of a success in opera, and that merely in Dresden. Doubtless I seemed in his eyes
one of a class of musicians to whom he attached no value, and with whom he proposed to have
no intercourse. Nevertheless my success had certain characteristic features, which gave it
a more or less alarming aspect. Mendelssohn's most ardent desire for a long time past had been
to write a successful opera, and it was possible he now felt annoyed that, before he had succeeded
in doing so, a triumph of this nature should suddenly be thrust into his face with blunt brutality,
and based upon a style of music which he might feel justified in regarding as poor. He probably
found it no less exasperating that Devrient, whose gifts he acknowledged, and who was his own
devoted admirer, should now so openly and loudly sound my praises. These thoughts were dimly
shaping themselves in my mind, when Mendelssohn, by a very remarkable statement, drove me,
almost with violence, to adopt this interpretation. On our way home together, after the joint
concert rehearsal, I was talking very warmly on the subject of music. Although by no means
a talkative man, he suddenly interrupted me with curiously hasty excitement by the assertion
that music had but one great fault, namely, that more than any other art it stimulated not
only our good, but also our evil qualities, such, for instance, as jealousy. I blushed with
shame to have to apply this speech to his own feelings towards me; for I was profoundly conscious
of my innocence of ever having dreamed, even in the remotest degree, of placing my own talents
or performances as a musician in comparison with his. Yet, strange to say, at this very concert
he showed himself in a light by no means calculated to place him beyond all possibility of
comparison with myself. A rendering of his Hebrides Overture would have placed him so immeasurably
above my two operatic airs, that all shyness at having to stand beside him would have been
spared me, as the gulf between our two productions was impassable. But in his choice of the
Ruy Blas Overture he appears to have been prompted by a desire to place himself on this occasion
so close to the operatic style that its effectiveness might be reflected upon his own work.
The overture was evidently calculated for a Parisian audience, and the astonishment Mendelssohn
caused by appearing in such a connection was shown by Robert Schumann in his own ungainly fashion
at its close. Approaching the musician in the orchestra, he blandly, and with a genial smile,
expressed his admiration of the 'brilliant orchestral piece' just played..

But in the interests of veracity let me not forget that neither he nor I scored the real success
of that evening. We were both wholly eclipsed by the tremendous effect produced by the grey-
haired Sophie Schroder in a recitation of Burger's Lenore. While the daughter had been taunted
in the newspapers with unfairly employing all sorts of musical attractions to cozen a benefit
concert out of the music lovers of Leipzig for a mother who never had anything to do with that
art, we, who were there as her musical aiders and abettors, had to stand like so many idle
conjurers, while this aged and almost toothless dame declaimed Burger's poem with truly terrifying
beauty and grandeur. This episode, like so much else that I saw during these few days, gave
me abundant food for thought and meditation.

A second excursion, also undertaken with Devrient, took me in the December of that year to
Berlin, where the singer had been invited to appear at a grand state concert. I for my part
wanted an interview with Director Kustner about the Fliegender Hollander. Although I arrived
at no definite result regarding my own personal business, this short visit to Berlin was memorable
for my meeting with Franz Liszt, which afterwards proved of great importance. It took place
under singular circumstances, which placed both him and me in a situation of peculiar embarrassment,
brought about in the most wanton fashion by Devrient's exasperating caprice.

I had already told my patroness the story of my earlier meeting with Liszt. During that fateful
second winter of my stay in Paris, when I had at last been driven to be grateful for Schlesinger's
hack-work, I one day received word from Laube, who always bore me in mind, that F. Liszt was
coming to Paris. He had mentioned and recommended me to him when he was in Germany, and advised
me to lose no time in looking him up, as he was 'generous,' and would certainly find means
of helping me. As soon as I heard that he had really arrived, I presented myself at the hotel
to see him. It was early in the morning. On my entrance I found several strange gentlemen waiting
in the drawing-room, where, after some time, we were joined by Liszt himself, pleasant and
affable, and wearing his indoor coat. The conversation was carried on in French, and turned
upon his experiences during his last professional journey in Hungary. As I was unable to take
part, on account of the language, I listened for some time, feeling heartily bored, until at
last he asked me pleasantly what he could do for me. He seemed unable to recall Laube's recommendation,
and all the answer I could give was that I desired to make his acquaintance. To this he had
evidently no objection, and informed me he would take care to have a ticket sent me for his
great matinee, which was to take place shortly. My sole attempt to introduce an artistic theme
of conversation was a question as to whether he knew Lowe's Erlkonig as well as Schubert's.
His reply in the negative frustrated this somewhat awkward attempt, and I ended my visit by
giving him my address. Thither his secretary, Belloni, presently sent me, with a few polite
words, a card of admission to a concert to be given entirely by the master himself in the Salle
Erard. I duly wended my way to the overcrowded hall, and beheld the platform on which the grand
piano stood, closely beleaguered by the cream of Parisian female society, and witnessed their
enthusiastic ovations of this virtuoso, who was at that time the wonder of the world. Moreover,
I heard several of his most brilliant pieces, such as 'Variations on Robert le Diable,' but
carried away with me no real impression beyond that of being stunned. This took place just
at the time when I abandoned a path which had been contrary to my truer nature, and had led
me astray, and on which I now emphatically turned my back in silent bitterness. I was therefore
in no fitting mood for a just appreciation of this prodigy, who at that time was shining in
the blazing light of day, but from whom I had turned my face to the night. I went to see Liszt
no more.

As already mentioned, I had given Devrient a bare outline of this story, but she had noted
it with particular attention, for I happened to have touched her weak point of professional
jealousy. As Liszt had also been commanded by the King of Prussia to appear at the grand state
concert at Berlin, it so happened that the first time they met Liszt questioned her with great
interest about the success of Rienzi. She thereupon observed that the composer of that opera
was an altogether unknown man, and proceeded with curious malice to taunt him with his apparent
lack of penetration, as proved by the fact that the said composer, who now so keenly excited
his interest, was the very same poor musician whom he had lately 'turned away so contemptuously'
in Paris. All this she told me with an air of triumph, which distressed me very much, and I
at once set to work to correct the false impression conveyed by my former account. As we were
still debating this point in her room, we were startled by hearing from the next the famous
bass part in the 'Revenge' air from Donna Anna, rapidly executed in octaves on the piano. 'That's
Liszt himself,' she cried. Liszt then entered the room to fetch her for the rehearsal. To my
great embarrassment she introduced me to him with malicious delight as the composer of Rienzi,
the man whose acquaintance he now wished to make after having previously shown him the door
in his glorious Paris. My solemn asseverations that my patroness--no doubt only in fun--was
deliberately distorting my account of my former visit to him, apparently pacified him so far
as I was concerned, and, on the other hand, he had no doubt already formed his own opinion
of the impulsive singer. He certainly regretted that he could not remember my visit in Paris,
but it nevertheless shocked and alarmed him to learn that any one should have had reason to
complain of such treatment at his hands. The hearty sincerity of Listz's simple words to me
about this misunderstanding, as contrasted with the strangely passionate raillery of the incorrigible
lady, made a most pleasing and captivating impression upon me. The whole bearing of the man,
and the way in which he tried to ward off the pitiless scorn of her attacks, was something
new to me, and gave me a deep insight into his character, so firm in its amiability and boundless
good-nature. Finally, she teased him about the Doctor's degree which had just been conferred
on him by the University of Konigsberg, and pretended to mistake him for a chemist. At last
he stretched himself out flat on the floor, and implored her mercy, declaring himself quite
defenceless against the storm of her invective. Then turning to me with a hearty assurance
that he would make it his business to hear Rienzi, and would in any case endeavour to give
me a better opinion of himself than his evil star had hitherto permitted, we parted for that
occasion.

The almost naive simplicity and naturalness of his every phrase and word, and particularly
his emphatic manner, left a most profound impression upon me. No one could fail to be equally
affected by these qualities, and I now realised for the first time the almost magic power exerted
by Liszt over all who came in close contact with him, and saw how erroneous had been my former
opinion as to its cause.

These two excursions to Leipzig and Berlin found but brief interruptions of the period devoted
at home to our study of the Fliegender Hollander. It was therefore, of paramount importance
to me to maintain Schroder-Devrient's keen interest in her part, since, in view of the weakness
of the rest of the cast, I was convinced that it was from her alone I could expect any adequate
interpretation of the spirit of my work.

The part of Senta was essentially suited to her, and there were just at that moment peculiar
circumstances in her life which brought her naturally emotional temperament to a high pitch
of tension. I was amazed when she confided to me that she was on the point of breaking off
a regular liaison of many years' standing, to form, in passionate haste, another much less
desirable one. The forsaken lover, who was tenderly devoted to her, was a young lieutenant
in the Royal Guards, and the son of Muller, the ex- Minister of Education; her new choice,
whose acquaintance she had formed on a recent visit to Berlin, was Herr von Munchhausen. He
was a tall, slim young man, and her predilection for him was easily explained when I became
more closely acquainted with her love affairs. It seemed to me that the bestowal of her confidence
on me in this matter arose from her guilty conscience; she was aware that Muller, whom I liked
on account of his excellent disposition, had loved her with the earnestness of a first love,
and also that she was now betraying him in the most faithless way on a trivial pretext. She
must have known that her new lover was entirely unworthy of her, and that his intentions were
frivolous and selfish. She knew, too, that no one, and certainly none of her older friends
who knew her best, would approve of her behaviour. She told me candidly that she had felt impelled
to confide in me because I was a genius, and would understand the demands of her temperament.
I hardly knew what to think. I was repelled alike by her passion and the circumstances attending
it; but to my astonishment I had to confess that the infatuation, so repulsive to me, held
this strange woman in so powerful a grasp that I could not refuse her a certain amount of pity,
nay, even real sympathy.

She was pale and distraught, ate hardly anything, and her faculties were subjected to a strain
so extraordinary that I thought she would not escape a serious, perhaps a fatal illness. Sleep
had long since deserted her, and whenever I brought her my unlucky Fliegender Hollander, her
looks so alarmed me that the proposed rehearsal was the last thing I thought of. But in this
matter she insisted; she made me sit down at the piano, and then plunged into the study of
her role as if it were a matter of life and death. She found the actual learning of the part
very difficult, and it was only by repeated and persevering rehearsal that she mastered her
task. She would sing for hours at a time with such passion that I often sprang up in terror
and begged her to spare herself; then she would point smiling to her chest, and expand the
muscles of her still magnificent person, to assure me that she was doing herself no harm. Her
voice really acquired at that time a youthful freshness and power of endurance. I had to confess
that which often astonished me: this infatuation for an insipid nobody was very much to the
advantage of my Senta. Her courage under this intense strain was so great that, as time pressed,
she consented to have the general rehearsal on the very day of the first performance, and a
delay which would have been greatly to my disadvantage was thus avoided.

The performance took place on 2nd January, in the year 1843. Its result was extremely instructive
to me, and led to the turning- point of my career. The, ill-success of the performance taught
me how much care and forethought were essential to secure the adequate dramatic interpretation
of my latest works. I realised that I had more or less believed that my score would explain
itself, and that my singers would arrive at the right interpretation of their own accord. My
good old friend Wachter, who at the time of Henriette Sontag's first success was a favourite
'Barber of Seville,' had from the first discreetly thought otherwise. Unfortunately, even Schroder-Devrient
only saw when the rehearsals were too far advanced how utterly incapable Wachter was of realising
the horror and supreme suffering of my Mariner. His distressing corpulence, his broad fat face,
the extraordinary movements of his arms and legs, which he managed to make look like mere stumps,
drove my passionate Senta to despair. At one rehearsal, when in the great scene in Act ii.
she comes to him in the guise of a guardian angel to bring the message of salvation, she broke
off to whisper despairingly in my ear, 'How can I say it when I look into those beady eyes?
Good God, Wagner, what a muddle you have made!' I consoled her as well as I could, and secretly
placed my dependence on Herr von Munchhausen, who promised faithfully to sit that evening in
the front row of the stalls, so that Devrient's eyes must fall on him. And the magnificent
performance of my great artiste, although she stood horribly alone on the stage, did succeed
in rousing enthusiasm in the second act. The first act offered the audience nothing but a dull
conversation between Herr Wachter and that Herr Risse who had invited me to an excellent glass
of wine on the first night of Rienzi, and in the third the loudest raging of the orchestra
did not rouse the sea from its dead calm nor the phantom ship in its cautious rocking. The
audience fell to wondering how I could have produced this crude, meagre, and gloomy work after
Rienzi, in every act of which incident abounded, and Tichatschek shone in an endless variety
of costumes.

As Schroder-Devrient soon left Dresden for a considerable time, the Fliegender Hollander saw
only four performances, at which the diminishing audiences made it plain that I had not pleased
Dresden taste with it. The management was compelled to revive Rienzi in order to maintain my
prestige; and the triumph of this opera compared with the failure of the Dutchman gave me food
for reflection. I had to admit, with some misgivings, that the success of my Rienzi was not
entirely due to the cast and staging, although I was fully alive to the defects from which
the Fliegender Hollander suffered in this respect. Although Wachter was far from realising
my conception of the Fliegender Hollander I could not conceal from myself the fact that Tichatschek
was quite as far removed from the ideal Rienzi. His abominable errors and deficiencies in his
presentation of the part had never escaped me; he had never been able to lay aside his brilliant
and heroic leading-tenor manners in order to render that gloomy demonic strain in Rienzi's
temperament on which I had laid unmistakable stress at the critical points of the drama. In
the fourth act, after the pronouncement of the curse, he fell on his knees in the most melancholy
fashion and abandoned himself to bewailing his fate in piteous tones. When I suggested to him
that Rienzi, though inwardly despairing, must take up an attitude of statuesque firmness before
the world, he pointed out to me the great popularity which the end of this very act had won
as interpreted by himself, with an intimation that he intended making no change in it.

And when I considered the real causes of the success of Rienzi, I found that it rested on the
brilliant and extraordinarily fresh voice of the soaring, happy singer, in the refreshing effect
of the chorus and the gay movement and colouring on the stage. I received a still more convincing
proof of this when we divided the opera into two, and found that the second part, which was
the more important from both the dramatic and the musical point of view, was noticeably less
well attended than the first, for the very obvious reason, as I thought, that the ballet occurred
in the first part. My brother Julius, who had come over from Leipzig for one of the performances
of Rienzi, gave me a still more naive testimony as to the real point of interest in the opera.
I was sitting with him in an open box, in full sight of the audience, and had therefore begged
him to desist from giving any applause, even if directed only to the efforts of the singers;
he restrained himself all through the evening, but his enthusiasm at a certain figure of the
ballet was too much for him, and he clapped loudly, to the great amusement of the audience,
telling me that he could not hold himself in any longer. Curiously enough, this same ballet
secured for Rienzi, which was otherwise received with indifference, the enduring preference
of the present King of Prussia, [FOOTNOTE: William the First.]who many years afterwards ordered
the revival of this opera, although it had utterly failed in arousing public interest by its
merits as a drama.

I found, when I had to be present later on at a representation of the same opera at Darmstadt,
that while wholesale cuts had to be made in its best parts, it had been found necessary to
expand the ballets by additions and repetitions. This ballet music, which I had put together
with contemptuous haste at Riga in a few days without any inspiration, seemed to me, moreover,
so strikingly weak that I was thoroughly ashamed of it even in those days at Dresden, when
I had found myself compelled to suppress its best feature, the tragic pantomime. Further, the
resources of the ballet in Dresden did not even admit of the execution of my stage directions
for the combat in the arena, nor for the very significant round dances, both admirably carried
out at a later date in Berlin. I had to be content with the humiliating substitution of a long,
foolish step-dance by two insignificant dancers, which was ended by a company of soldiers marching
on, bearing their shields on high so as to form a roof and remind the audience of the Roman
testudo; then the ballet-master with his assistant, in flesh-coloured tights, leaped on to
the shields and turned somersaults, a proceeding which they thought was reminiscent of the
gladiatorial games. It was at this point that the house was always moved to resounding applause,
and I had to own that this moment marked the climax of my success.

I thus had my doubts as to the intrinsic divergence between my inner aims and my outward success;
at the same time a decisive and fatal change in my fortunes was brought about by my acceptance
of the conductorship at Dresden, under circumstances as perplexing in their way as those preceding
my marriage. I had met the negotiations which led up to this appointment with a hesitation
and a coolness by no means affected. I felt nothing but scorn for theatrical life; a scorn
that was by no means lessened by a closer acquaintance with the apparently distinguished ruling
body of a court theatre, the splendours of which only conceal, with arrogant ignorance, the
humiliating conditions appertaining to it and to the modern theatre in general. I saw every
noble impulse stifled in those occupied with theatrical matters, and a combination of the vainest
and most frivolous interests maintained by a ridiculously rigid and bureaucratic system; I
was now fully convinced that the necessity of handling the business of the theatre would be
the most distasteful thing I could imagine. Now that, through Rastrelli's death, the temptation
to be false to my inner conviction came to me in Dresden, I explained to my old and trusted
friends that I did not think I should accept the vacant post.

But everything calculated to shake human resolution combined against this decision. The prospect
of securing the means of livelihood through a permanent position with a fixed salary was an
irresistible attraction. I combated the temptation by reminding myself of my success as an
operatic composer, which might reasonably be expected to bring in enough to supply my moderate
requirements in a lodging of two rooms, where I could proceed undisturbed with fresh compositions.
I was told in answer to this that my work itself would be better served by a fixed position
without arduous duties, as for a whole year since the completion of the Fliegender Hollander
I had not, under existing circumstances, found any leisure at all for composition. I still
remained convinced that Rastrelli's post of musical director, in subordination to the conductor,
was unworthy of me, and I declined to entertain the proposal, thus leaving the management to
look elsewhere for some one to fill the vacancy.

There was therefore no further question of this particular post, but I was then informed that
the death of Morlacchi had left vacant a court conductorship, and it was thought that the King
would be willing to offer me the post. My wife was very much excited at this prospect, for
in Germany the greatest value is laid on these court appointments, which are tenable for life,
and the dazzling respectability pertaining to them is held out to German musicians as the acme
of earthly happiness. The offer opened up for us in many directions the prospect of friendly
relations in a society which had hitherto been outside our experience. Domestic comfort and
social prestige were very alluring to the homeless wanderers who, in bygone days of misery,
had often longed for the comfort and security of an assured and permanent position such as
was now open to them under the august protection of the court. The influence of Caroline von
Weber did much in the long-run to weaken my opposition. I was often at her house, and took
great pleasure in her society, which brought back to my mind very vividly the personality of
my still dearly beloved master. She begged me with really touching tenderness not to withstand
this obvious command of fate, and asserted her right to ask me to settle in Dresden, to fill
the place left sadly empty by her husband's death. 'Just think,' she said, 'how can I look
Weber in the face again when I join him if I have to tell him that the work for which he made
such devoted sacrifices in Dresden is neglected; just imagine my feelings when I see that indolent
Reissiger stand in my noble Weber's place, and when I hear his operas produced more mechanically
every year. If you loved Weber, you owe it to his memory to step into his place and to continue
his work.' As an experienced woman of the world she also pointed out energetically and prudently
the practical side of the matter, impressing on me the duty of thinking of my wife, who would,
in case of my death, be sufficiently provided for if I accepted the post.

The promptings of affection, prudence and good sense, however, had less weight with me than
the enthusiastic conviction, never at any period of my life entirely destroyed, that wherever
fate led me, whether to Dresden or elsewhere, I should find the opportunity which would convert
my dreams into reality through currents set in motion by some change in the everyday order
of events. All that was needed for this was the advent of an ardent and aspiring soul who,
with good luck to back him, might make up for lost time, and by his ennobling influence achieve
the deliverance of art from her shameful bonds. The wonderful and rapid change which had taken
place in my fortunes could not fail to encourage such a hope, and I was seduced on perceiving
the marked alteration that had taken place in the whole attitude of Luttichau, the general
director, towards me. This strange individual showed me a kindliness of which no one would
hitherto have thought him capable, and that he was prompted by a genuine feeling of personal
benevolence towards me I could not help being absolutely convinced, even at the time of my
subsequent ceaseless differences with him.

Nevertheless, the decision came as a kind of surprise. On 2nd February 1843 I was very politely
invited to the director's office, and there met the general staff of the royal orchestra, in
whose presence Luttichau, through the medium of my never-to- be-forgotten friend Winkler, solemnly
read out to me a royal rescript appointing me forthwith conductor to his Majesty, with a life
salary of four thousand five hundred marks a year. Luttichau followed the reading of this document
by a more or less ceremonious speech, in which he assumed that I should gratefully accept the
King's favour. At this polite ceremony it did not escape my notice that all possibility of
future negotiations over the figure of the salary was cut off; on the other hand, a substantial
exemption in my favour, the omission of the condition, enforced even on Weber in his time,
of serving a year's probation under the title of mere musical director, was calculated to secure
my unconditional acceptance. My new colleagues congratulated me, and Luttichau accompanied
me with the politest phrases to my own door, where I fell into the arms of my poor wife, who
was giddy with delight. Therefore I fully realised that I must put the best face I could on
the matter, and unless I wished to give unheard-of offence, I must even congratulate myself
on my appointment as royal conductor.

