Then, assuming that there is something in this provincial superstition, four questions present
themselves to us for examination.

Does the divining fork really move of itself in the hands of the operator, and not through
motion communicated to it by the intentional or unintentional action of the muscles of his
hands or arms?

What relation has the person of the operator to the motion observed in the divining rod?

What is the nature of the influence to which the person of the operator serves as a conductor?

Finally, what is the thing divined? the proximity of veins of metal or of running water? what
or what not?

Then, let me at once premise, that upon the last point I have no information to offer. The
uses to which the divining fork may be turned, are yet to be learned. But I think I shall be
able to satisfy you, that the hazel fork in some hands, and in certain localities, held as
I have described, actually moves spontaneously, and that the intervention of the human body
is necessary to its motion; and that it serves as a conductor to an influence, which is either
electricity, or something either combined with electricity, or very much resembling that principle
in some of its habitudes.

I should observe, that I was no wiser than you are upon this subject, till the summer of 1843,
and held the tales told of the divining rod to be nonsense, the offspring of mere self-delusion,
or of direct imposture. And I think the likeliest way of removing your disbelief, will be to
tell you the steps by which my own conversion took place.

In the summer of 1843, I lived some months under the same roof with a Scottish gentleman, well
informed, of a serious turn of mind, endowed with the national allowance of caution, shrewdness,
and intelligence. I saw a good deal of him; and one day by accident the subject of the divining
rod was mentioned. He told me that at one time his curiosity having been raised upon the subject,
he had taken pains to learn what there was in it. And for that purpose he had obtained an introduction
to Mrs. R., sister of Sir G. R., then residing at Southampton, whom he learned to be one of
those in whose hands the divining rod was said to move. He visited the lady, who was polite
enough to show him what the performance amounted to, and to answer all his questions, and to
allow him to try some simple experiment to test the reality of the phenomenon and its nature.

Mrs. R. told my friend, that being at Cheltenham in 1806, she saw for the first time the divining
rod used by the late Mrs. Colonel Beaumont, who possessed the power of imparting motion to
it in a very remarkable degree. Mrs. R. tried the experiments herself at the time, but without
any success. She was, as it happened, very far from well. Afterwards, in the year 1815, being
asked by a friend how the divining rod was held, and how it is to be used, on showing it she
observed that the hazel fork moved in her hands. Since then, whenever she had repeated the
experiment, the power has always manifested itself, though with varying degrees of energy.

Mrs. R. then took my friend to a part of the shrubbery, where she knew, from former trials,
the divining rod would move in her hands. It did so, to my friend's extreme astonishment; and
even continued to do so, when, availing himself of Mrs. R.'s permission, my friend grasped
her hands with such firmness, as to preclude the possibility of any muscular action of her
wrist or fingers influencing the result.

On another day my friend took with him pieces of copper and iron wire about a foot and a half
long, bent something into the form of the letter V, with length enough in the horizontal limbs
of the figure to form a sufficient handle for either branch of these new-fashioned divining
forks. He found that these instruments moved quite as freely in Mrs. R.'s hands as the hazel
fork had done. Then he coated the two handles of one of them with sealing-wax, leaving, however,
the extreme ends free and uncovered. When Mrs. R. used the rod so prepared, grasping it by
the parts alone which were coated with sealing-wax, and walked over the same piece of ground
as before, the wires exhibited no movement whatever. As often, however, as, with no greater
change than touching the free ends of the wire with her thumbs, Mrs. R. established again a
direct contact with the instrument, it again moved. The motion again ceased, as often as that
direct contact was interrupted.

This simple narrative, made to me by the late Mr. George Fairholm, carried conviction to my
mind of the reality of the phenomenon. I asked my friend why he had not pursued the subject
further. He said he had often thought of doing so; and had, he believed, been mainly prevented
by meeting with a work of the Count de Tristan, entitled, "Recherches sur quelques Effluves
Terrestres," published at Paris in 1826, in which facts similar to those which he had himself
verified were narrated, and a vast body of additional curious experiments detailed.

At my friend's instance, I sent to Paris for the book, which I have, however, only recently
read through. I recommend it to your perusal, if the subject should happen to interest your
wayward curiosity. Any thing like an elaborate analysis of it is out of the question in a letter
of this sort; but I shall borrow from it a few leading facts and observations, which, at all
events, will surprise you. I am afraid, after all, I should have treated the Count as a visionary,
and not have yielded to his statements the credence they deserve, but for the good British
evidence I had already heard in favour of their trustworthiness; and still I suspect that I
should have imagined many of the details fanciful had I perused them at an earlier period than
the present; for, it is but lately that I have read Von Reichenbach's experiments on the action
of crystals, and of what not, upon sensitive human bodies; a series of phenomena utterly unlike
those explored by the Count de Tristan, but which have, nevertheless, the most curious analogy
and interesting points of contact with them, confirmatory of the truth of both.

But permit me to introduce you to the Count: he shall tell you his own tale in his own way;
but as he does not speak English, at least in his book, I must serve as dragoman.

"The history of my researches is simply this:--Some twenty years ago, a gentleman who, from
his position in society, could have no object to gain by deception, showed to me, for my amusement,
the movements of the divining rod. He attributed the motion to the influence of a current of
water, which I thought no unlikely supposition. But my attention was rather engaged with the
action produced by the influence, let that be what it might. My informant assured me he had
met with many others, through whom similar effects were manifested. When I was returned home,
and had opportunities of making trials under favourable circumstances, I found that I possessed
the same endowment myself. Since then I have induced many to make the experiment; and I have
found a fourth, or at all events a fifth of the number, capable of setting the divining rod
in motion at the very first attempt. Since that time, during these twenty years, I have often
tried my hand, but for amusement only, and desultorily, and without any idea of making the
thing an object of scientific investigation. But at length, in the year 1822, being in the
country, and removed from my ordinary pursuits, the subject again came across me, and I then
determined to ascertain the cause of these phenomena. Accordingly, I commenced a long series
of experiments, from 1500 to 1800 in number, which occupied me nearly fifteen months. The results
of above 1200 were noted down at the time of their performance."

The scene of the Count's operations was in the valley of the Loire, five leagues from Vendôme,
in the park of the Chateau de Ranac. The surface of ground which gave the desired results,
was from 70 to 80 feet in breadth. But there was another spot equally efficient near the Count's
ordinary residence at Emerillon, near Clery, four leagues southwest of Orleans, ten leagues
south of the Loire, at the commencement of the plains of Sologne. The surface was from north
to south, and was about of the same breadth with the other. These exciting tracts form, in
general, bands or zones of undetermined, and often very great length. Their breadth is very
variable. Some are only three or four feet across, while others are one hundred paces. These
tracts are sometimes sinuous and sometimes ramify. To the most susceptible they are broader
than to those who are less so.

The Count thus describes what happens when a competent person, armed with a hazel fork, walks
over these exciting districts.

When two or three steps have been made upon the exciting tract of ground, the fork (which I
have already said is to be held horizontally with its central angle forward,) begins gently
to ascend; it gradually attains a vertical position--sometimes it passes beyond that, and lowering
itself with its point towards the chest of the operator, it becomes again horizontal. If the
motion continue, the rod, descending, becomes vertical with the angle downwards. Finally, the
rod may again ascend and reassume its first horizontal position, having thus completed a revolution.
When the action is very lively, the rod immediately commences a second revolution; and so it
goes on as long as the operator walks over the exciting surface of ground.

It is to be understood that the operator does not grasp the handles of the fork so tightly
but that they may turn in his hands. If, indeed, he tries to prevent this, and the fork is
only of hazel twig, the rotatory force is so strong as to twist it at the handles and crack
the bark, and finally, fracture the wood itself.

I can imagine you at this statement endeavouring to hit the proper intonation of the monosyllable
"Hugh," frequently resorted to by Uncas, the son of Chingachkook, as well as by his parent,
on similar occasions; though I remember to have read of none so trying in their experience.
I anticipate the remarks you would subsequently make, which the graver Indian would have politely
repressed:--"By my patience, this bangs Banagher, and exhausts credulity. The assertion of
these dry impossibilities is too choking to listen to. The fork cannot go down in this crude
and unprotected state. It is as inconvenient a morsel as the 'Amen' inopportunely suggested
to the conscience-stricken Macbeth. Cannot you contrive some intellectual cookery to make the
process of deglutition easier? Suppose you mix the raw facts with some flowery hypothesis,
throw in a handful of familiar ideas to give a congenial flavour, and stir into the mess some
leaven of stale opinion to make it rise; so, do try your hand at a philosophical soufflé."

Do manus.

Then you are to imagine that a current of electricity, or of something like it, may use your
legs as conductors, as you walk over the soil from which it emanates, the circuit which it
seeks being completed through your arms and the divining rod.

Nothing, then, would be more likely, upon analogy,--the extreme part of the current traversing
a curved and movable conductor,--than that the latter should be attracted or repelled, or both
alternately, by or from the soil below, or by your person, or both.

And see, what would render such an explanation plausible? Why, the cessation of the rotatory
motion of the divining fork, on the operator simultaneously holding in his hands a straight
rod of the same substance,--that is, conjointly with the other,--offering a shorter road to
the journeying fluid, and so superseding the movable one. Well, the Count de Tristan did this,
and the result was conformable to the hypothesis. When he walked over the exciting soil, with
two rods held in his two hands, the one a hazel fork, the other a straight hazel twig, no motion
whatever manifested itself in the former.

I flatter myself, that if you now continue to disbelieve, the fault is not mine: the fault
must lie in your organisation. You must have a very small bump of credulity, and a very large
bump of incredulity. You must be, actively and passively, incapable of receiving new ideas.
How on earth did you get your old ones?--They must come by entail. But you are still a disbeliever?

Bless me! how am I to proceed? I catch at the slenderest straw of analogical suggestion. I
have heard that the best cure, when you have burned your finger, is to hold it to the fire.
Let me try a corresponding proceeding with you. My first statement has sadly irritated and
blistered your belief; oblige me by trying the soothing application of the following fact:--

Although, in general, the divining rod behaves with great gravity and consistency, and looks
contemplatively upward, when it comes upon grounds that move it, and then twirls respectably
round, as you might twirl your thumbs in a tranquil continuity of rotation, yet there are some--a
small proportion only--in whose hands it gibs at starting, and with whom it delights to go
in the opposite direction. I say "delights" considerately; for it has a voice in the matter.
So that a divining rod that has been used for some little time to go the wrong way, requires
further time before it will go round right again.

The Count de Tristan found out the key to this anomaly.

He had discovered that a thick cover of silk upon the handles of the divining fork, like Mr.
Fairholm's coating of sealing wax, entirely arrested its motion. Then he tried thinner covers,
and found they only lowered, as it were, and lessened it. The thin layer of silk was only an
imperfect impediment to the transmission of the influence. Then he tried the effect of covering
one handle only of the divining rod with a thin layer of silk stuff. He so covered the right
handle, and then the enigma above proposed was explained. The divining fork, which hitherto
had gone the usual way with him, commencing by ascending, now, when set in motion, descended,
and continued to perform an inverse rotation.

I think this is the place for mentioning, that when the Count walked over the exciting soil,
rod in hand, but trailing likewise, from each hand, a branch of the same plant, (which therefore
touched the ground with one end, and with the other touched, in his hand, the magic fork,)
the latter had lost its virtue. There is no motion when the ends of the divining rod are in
direct communication with the soil. The intervention of the human body is necessary for our result.

Then we are at liberty to suppose that the two sides of our frame have some fine difference
of quality; that there is in general a sort of preponderance upon the right side; that in general,
in reference to the divining rod, there is a superior vigour of transmission in the right side;
that this difference, whatever it may be, of kind or degree, determines a current, causes motion,
in the unknown fluid, which, in a simple arched conductor, with its ends upon the soil, remains
in equilibrium. To explain the result of the last experiment I have cited of the Count de Tristan,
no difference in quality in the two sides of the body need be assumed. Difference in conducting
power alone will do. Then it might be said, that by covering the right handle of the divining
rod, he checked the current rushing through the right side of the frame, and so gave predominance
to the left current. One cannot help conjecturally anticipating, by the way, that with left-handed
diviners, the divining rod will be found habitually to move the wrong way.

But it will not do now, to let this indication of a curious physiological element pass slurred
over and unheeded,--this evidence so singularly furnished by the Count de Tristan's experiments,
of a positive difference between the right and left halves of the frame, as if our bodies were
the subjects of a transverse polarity. I expect it is too late to pass over now any such facts,
the very genuineness of which derives confirmation, from their pointing to a conclusion so
new to, and unexpected by their observer, yet recently made certain through an entirely different
order of phenomena, observed by one clearly not cognisant of the Count de Tristan's researches.

I allude to the investigations of the Baron Freyherr von Reichenbach, published in Wohler and
Liebig's "Annals of Chemistry," and already translated for the benefit of the English reader,
and familiar to the reading public.

I take it for granted, Archy, that you have read the book I refer to, and that I have only
to bring to your recollection two or three of the facts mentioned in it, bearing upon the present
point.

Then you remember that Von Reichenbach has shown, that the two ends of a large crystal, moved
along and near the surface of a limb, in certain sensitive subjects, produced decided but different
sensations, one that of a draught of cool air, the other of a draught of warm air. That the
proximity of the northward pole of a magnet again produces the former, of the southward pole
the latter; of the negative wire of a voltaic pile, the former, of the positive wire, the latter;
finally, that the two hands are equally and similarly efficient, the right acting like the
negative influence, the left like the positive, of those above specified. Von Reichenbach came
to the conclusion, from these and other experiments, that the two lateral halves of the human
body have opposite relations to the influence, the existence of which he has proved, while
he has in part developed its laws. And he throws out the very idea of a transverse polarity
reigning in the animal frame. Do you remember, in confirmation of it, one of the most curious
experiments which he leads Fräulein Maix to execute; valueless it might be thought if it stood
alone, but joined with parallel effects produced on others, its weight is irresistible. Miss
M. holds a bar magnet by its two ends. In any case it is sensibly inconvenient to her to do
so. But when she holds the southward or positive pole of the magnet in her right hand, the
northward or negative pole in her left, the thing is bearable. When, on the contrary, she reverses
the position of the magnet, she immediately experiences the most distressing uneasiness, and
the feeling as of an inward struggle in her arms, chest, and head. This ceases instantly on
letting go the magnet.

I will not inflict upon you more of Von Reichenbach, though sorely tempted, so much is there
in common between his Od and the influence investigated by the Count de Tristan. If you know
the researches of the former already, why verbum sat; if not, I had better not attempt further
to explain to you the ignotum per ignotum.

And in truth, with reference to the divining rod, I have already given my letter extension
and detail enough for the purpose I contemplated, and I will add no more. I had no intention
of writing you a scientific analysis of all that I believe to be really ascertained upon this
curious subject. My wish was only to satisfy you that there is something in it. I have told
you where you may find the principal collection of facts elating to it, should you wish further
to study them; most likely you will not. The subject is yet in its first infancy. And what
interest attaches to a new-born babe, except in the eyes of its parents and its nurse? I do
not in the present instance affect even the latter relation. I am contented with exercising
the office of registrar of the births of this and of two or three other as yet puling truths,
the feeble voices of which have hitherto attracted no attention, amidst the din and roar of
the bustling world. Hoping that I have not quite exhausted your patience, I remain, Dear Archy,
yours faithfully.

MAC DAVUS.

HORÆ CATULLIANE.

LETTER TO EUSEBIUS.

MY DEAR EUSEBIUS,--I have lately spent a few weeks with our old friend Gratian, at his delightful
retreat in Devonshire, which he has planted, fenced, and cultivated, and made as much a part
of himself in its every fit and aspect as his own easy coat. You see him in every thing, in
the house and out of it. Cheerful, happy, kind, and best of men! Not an animal in his stall,
or his homestead, but partakes of his temper. His horses neigh to you, his cows walk up to
you, his pigs run to you, rather disappointed, for you have not his stick to rub their backs
with. Rise in the early morning, when the dew is sparkling on the lawn, and his spaniel greets
you, runs round and round you with a bark of joyous welcome; and even his cat will, as no other
cat will, show you round the gravel walks. And thrice happy are all when their expected master
appears, somewhat limping in his gait, (and how few, under his continual pain, would preserve
his cheerfulness as he does!) Every creature looks up into his face as better than sunshine,
and he forgets none. He has a good word for all, and often more than that in his pockets. The
alms beggar, the Robin, is remembered and housed. There is his little freehold of wood raised
some feet from the ground opposite the breakfast room window--an entrance both ways--there
is he free to come and go, and always find a meal laid for him. Happy bird, he pays neither
window-tax nor servant's tax, and yet who enjoys more daylight, or is better served?

Our good old friend still goes on improving this and improving that--has his little farm and
his garden all in the highest perfection. Nor is the least care bestowed on the greenhouse,
and the little aviary adjoining; for here are objects of feminine pleasure, and he loves not
himself so well as he does the mistress of all, the mother and the partner. O the terrestrial
paradise, in which to wait old age, and still enjoy, and breathe to the last the sunshiny breath
of heaven, and feel that all is blessed and blessing; for there is peace, and that is the true
name for goodness within! You shall have, my dear Eusebius, no farther description. A drop-scene,
however, is not amiss to any little conversational drama. You may shift it, if you like, occasionally
to the small snug library--just such a one as you would have for such a retreat. Our excellent
friend took less part in our talk than we could have wished; for it began generally at night,
and his infirmity sent him to bed early. But in spite of a little remnant of influenza, I and
the Curate often kept it up to a late hour, which you, Eusibius, will construe into an early
one. Never mind; though, perhaps, it was whispered to his discredit that the Curate kept bad
hours. Those, however, who knew the fact did not keep better, and so he thought all safe. How
sweet and consoling is sometimes ignorance!

Now, the Curate--let me introduce you,--"My dear Eusebius, the Curate, a class man some year
or two from Oxford--a true man, in a word, worthy of this introduction to you, Eusebius." "Mr.
Curate, my friend Eusebius; see, don't trust to his gravity of years; it is quite deceptive,
and the only deceit he has about him. He is Truth in sunshine and a fresh healthy breeze. So
now you know each other." I wish, Eusebius, this were not a passage out of an imaginary conversation.
Wait but for the swallow, and you shall shake hands; and you, I know, will laugh merrily within
ten minutes after; and a laugh from you is as good as a ticket upon your breast, "All is natural
here;" and for the rest, let come what will, that is uppermost. There will be no restraint.
I cannot forbear, Eusebius, writing to you now, early in this new year, paying you this compliment,
that your real conversations resemble in much "Landor's Imaginary," which you tell me you so
greatly admire. Full, indeed, are they, these last two volumes, his works, of beautiful thoughts
set off with exquisitely appropriate eloquence. You are in a garden, and if you do not always
recognise the fruit as legitimate, you are quite as well pleased to find it like Aladdin's,
and would willingly store all, as he did, in the bosom of your memory. Precious stones, bigger
than plums and peaches, are good for sore eyes, and something more, though they have not the
flavour of apricots.

We--that is, the Trio--had been reading one evening; or rather, our friend Gratian read to
me and the Curate, the "Conversation with the Abbé Delille and W. L." We loitered, too, in
the reading, as we do when the country is of a pleasant aspect, to look about us and admire--and
we interspersed our own little talk by the way. Our friend could not consent that Catullus
should walk with, and even, as it should seem, take the lead of his favourite Horace. "Catullus
and Horace," says Landor, "will be read as long as Homer and Virgil, and more often, and by
more readers."

"If," said the Curate, "Catullus were not nearly banished from our public schools and our universities."

"As he deserves," replied Gratian; "for although there is in him great elegance, yet is there
much that should not be read; and his most beautiful and most powerful little poem, his 'Atys,'
is in its very subject unfit for schoolboys."

CURATE.--Yes, if in the presence of a master; that makes the only difficulty. The poem itself
is essentially chaste, and of a grand tragic action, and grave character--is in fact a serious
poem, and as such any youth may read it to himself, scarcely to another. The very subject touches
on that mystical, though natural sanctity that every uncorrupted man is conscious of in the
temple of his own person. To impart a thought of it is a deterioration. But a master must not
hear it; and even for a very inferior reason. He cannot be a critical instructor.

GRATIAN.--You are right: that was a deep observation of Juvenal; it gave the caution,

  "Maxima debetur pueris reverentia."

I have often thought that good masters have ever shown very great tact in reading the Classics,
where there is so much, even in the purest, that it is best not to understand.

AQUILIUS. (I choose to give myself that name)--Or rather to pass lightly over, for you cannot
help seeing it; put your foot across it, and not lengthways; as you would over a rut in a bad
bit of road, which may nevertheless lead to a most delightful place at the end. I cannot but
think the "Atys" to be a borrowed poem. It is quite Greek--unlike any thing Roman. What Roman
ever expressed downright mad violent action? How much there is in it that reminds you of the
story of Pentheus of Euripides. Both deny a deity, and both are punished by their own hands.
But the resemblance is less in the characters than in the vivid pictures and rapidity of action;
and the landscape glows like one fresh from Titian's pencil. Our friend Landor, here, I see,
calls the author "graceful." He says of Virgil that he is not so "graceful as Catullus."

CURATE.--Grace, as separate from beauty, I suppose, means something lighter. It admits a feeling
not quite in earnest, not so serious but it may be sported with.

GRATIAN.--It is a play, however, at which only genius is expert. It is many years since I read
Catullus,--I confess I thought him rather a careless fellow, and that his Lesbia was but a
doll to dress out in the tawdry ribbons of his verse.

AQUILIUS.--Whatever his Lesbia was, his verses are chaste; and if I find a Lesbia that is not
as his verse, I think it a duty of charity to conclude there were two of the name; and we know
that one Lesbia was a feigned name for Clodia.

GRATIAN.--That is not very complimentary to the constancy of Catullus.

CURATE.--I am afraid we are speaking of a virtue that was not Roman. I have been reading Catullus
very recently, and was so much pleased with his gracefulness, that I thought it no bad practice
to translate one or two of his small pieces: as I translated I became more and more aware of
the clear elegance of his diction.

AQUILIUS.--I have always been an admirer of Catullus; and as I think a little employment will
dissipate the remaining imaginary symptoms of influenza, when our friend and host is indulging
his pigs by rubbing their backs with the end of his stick, and extending his walk to admire
his mangel-worzel, or talking to his horses, his dogs, or his cat, and learning their opinions
upon things in general, (for he is persuaded they have opinions, and says he knows many of
them, and intends one day to catalogue them;) or while he is beyond his own gates, (and whoever
catches a sight of his limp and supporting stick, is sure to hasten pace or to slacken it,
loving his familiar talk,) looking out for an object of human sociality, I will steal into
his library--take down his Catullus, and try my hand, good master Curate, against you. We will
be, or at least believe ourselves to be,

  "Et cantare pares et decantare parati."

GRATIAN.--Ay, do; and as the shepherds were rewarded by their umpires of old, will I reward
one or both with this stick. Shall I describe its worth and dignity after the manner of Homer,
that it may be worthy of you, if you are "baculo digni;" but whatever Aquilius may say in its
disparagement, it is not a bit the worse for its familiarity with my pig's back. It is a good
pig, and shall make bacon for the winner, which is the best lard he will get for his poetry.
But I feel a warning hint, and must to bed--it is no longer with me the

                "Cynthius aurem
  Vellit et admonuit."

The warning comes rather stronger upon bone and muscle. Heaven preserve you both from the pains
of rheumatism in your old age. I suppose a troubled conscience, which they say never rests,
is but the one turn more of the screw: so good night.

Our friend gone, we took down Catullus, and read with great pleasure many of his short pieces,
agreeing with Landor as to the gracefulness of the poet, and resolved, if it be trifling, to
trifle away some portion of our time in translating him, and with this resolve we parted for
the night.

We did not, Eusebius, meet again for some days, the Curate being fully employed in his rounds
of parochial visiting by day, and in preparation by night for his weekly duty. You must imagine
you now see us after tea retired to the snug library. Gratian, some years the elder, resting,
(if that word may be allowed to his pain,--if not to his pain, however, it shall be due to
his patience) resting, I say, his whole person in his easy chair, and tapping pretty smartly
with his stick the thigh from his hip to his leg, and then settling himself into the importance
of a judge; but do not imagine you see us like two culprits about to be condemned for feloniously
breaking into the house of one Catullus, and stealing therefrom sundry articles of plate, which
we had melted down in our own crucibles, and which were no longer, therefore, to be recognised
as his, but by evidence against us. All translators show a bold front; for if they come short
of the meed of originality, they shift off from them the modesty of responsibility, and unblushingly
ascribe all faults to their author. We were therefore easy enough, and ready to make as free
with our Rhadamanthus as with our Catullus. Not to be too long--thus commenced our talk.

AQUILIUS.--The first piece Catullus offers is his dedication--it is to an author to whom I
owe a grudge, and perhaps we all of us do. He has caused us some tears, and more visible marks,
and I confess something like an aversion to his concise style. It is to Cornelius Nepos. How
much more like a modern dedication, than one of Dryden's day, both as to length and matter.

AD CORNELIUM NEPOTEM.

  This little-book--and somewhat light--
  'Tis polished well, and smoothly bright,
  To whom shall I now dedicate?
  To you, Cornelius, wont to rate
  My trifling wares at highest worth.
  E'en then, when boldly you stepped forth,
  First of Italians to compose,
  In three short books of nervous prose,
  All age's annals--work of nice
  Research, and studiously concise.
  Such as it is receive--and look
  With usual favour on my book;
  And grant, O queen of wits and sages,
  Motherless Virgin, these my pages
  May pass from this to future ages.

CURATE.--Queen of wits and sages,--"O Patrima Virgo"--is that translating?

GRATIAN.--That's right--have at him!

AQUILIUS.--To be sure it is. What English reader would know else that Minerva was meant by
"Motherless Virgin?" he would have to go back to the story of Jupiter beating her out of his
own brains. So as he is not familiar with the creed, as one of it, I let him into the secret
of it at once; and thus out comes the book from the "Minerva Press," "labe to bublion."

GRATIAN.--(Reads, "O Patrima Virgo," &c.) Well, well--let it pass. The dedication won't pay
along reckoning. We must not look too nicely into the mouth of the book--let it speak for itself.
Now, Mr. Curate, what have you?

CURATE.--I didn't trouble myself with such a dedication, but passed on to "Ad Passerem Lesbiæ."

GRATIAN.--More attractive metal.

CURATE.--Not at all attractive; for there is considerable difficulty, and as I suppose a corrupted
text, before we reach six lines. Here I let the bird loose.

  Sparrow, minion of my dear,
    Little animated toy,
  Whom the fair delights to bear
    In her bosom lapt in joy.

  Whom she teases and displeases,
    With her white forefinger's end,
  Thus inviting savage biting
    From her tiny feather'd friend.

  Image burning of my yearning,
    When at fondness she would play;
  Thus she takes her aught that makes her
    Pensive moments glide away.

  'Tis a balm for her soft sorrow,
    Tranquillising beauty's breast;
  Would I might her plaything borrow,
    So to lull my cares to rest.

  I would prize it, as the maiden
    Prized the golden apple thrown,
  Which displacing her in racing,
    Loosed at last her virgin zone.

AQUILIUS.--Here lies the difficulty:

  "Quum desiderio meo nitenti
  Carum nescio quid lubet jocari,
  (Ut solatiolum sui doloris
  Credunt, quum gravis acquiescet ardor.")

Another edition has it:

  "Credo ut gravis acquiescat ardor."

GRATIAN.--Leave it to OEdipus--make sense of it, and we must not be too nice.

AQUILIUS.--Well, then, it possibly means, that she passes off the pain of the bite with a little
coquetry and action, as we move about a limb pretty briskly when it tingles.

GRATIAN.--O, the cunning--argumentum ad hominem.

AQUILIUS.--Thus I venture--

AD PASSEREM LESBIÆ.

  Little sparrow, gentle sparrow,
    Whom my Lesbia loveth so;
  Her sweet playmate, whom she petteth,
      And she letteth
    To her bosom come and go.

  Loving there to hold thee ever,
    Her forefinger to thy bill,
  Oft she pulleth and provoketh;
      And she mocketh,
    Till you bite her harder still.

  Then new beauty glistening o'er her,
    Pain'd and blushing doth she feign,
  Some sweet play of love's excesses,
      And caresses
    More to soothe or hide her pain.

  Would thou wert my pretty birdie,
    Plaything--playmate unto me,
  Knowing when her loss doth grieve me,
      To relieve me,
    For she seeks relief from thee.

  Birdie, thou shouldst be such treasure
    As the golden apple thrown,
  Was to Atalanta, spying
      Which in flying,
    Cost the loosening of her zone.

CURATE.--That may be a possible translation of the difficulty, if the text be somewhat amended;
but who ever heard of a hurt from the peck of a sparrow?

GRATIAN.--I'll take you into our aviary to-morrow, and you shall try on your own rough-work
finger the peck of a bullfinch; and I think you may grant that Lesbia's finger was a little
softer. Who would trust the tenderness of a Curate's forefinger, case-hardened as it is with
his weekly steel-pen work, and deadened by the nature of it, against all Lesbias and their
sparrows. Lesbia's forefinger was the very pattern of a forefinger, soft to touch as to feel--that
did no work. I dare to say Shakspeare was thinking of such a one, when he said,

  "The hand of little employment hath the daintier sense."

There's something playfully pretty, and lightly tender in this little piece; but I don't see
by what link of thought poor Atalanta is brought in, and thus stripped to the skin, as she
was out-stripped in the race. Admitting the text emendable, may not there be supposed such
a connexion as this,--that he wishes the bird would be his plaything, that he might lay it
as an offering at her feet,--that she might take it, as did Atalanta the golden apple, and
become herself the winner's reward? Why should not I come in with an ad libitum movement? We,
limping rheumaticists, have ever a spiteful desire to trip up the swift-footed. Now, then,
for an old man's limp against Atalanta's speed.

  Birdie, be my plaything, go--
  At her flying feet be thrown;--
  Like the golden apple, woo her,
  Atalanta's wise pursuer
  Cast and won her for his own;--
  Pretty birdie aid me so.

Galatea won her lover by the apple. "Malo me Galatea petit."

CURATE.--A well thrown apple that golden pippin, grown doubtless from a pip dropt on Mount
Ida, and hence the name. We shall not run against you, I perceive.

GRATIAN.--Don't talk of golden pippins, or I shall mount my hobby, and go through the genealogy
of my whole orchard, and good-bye to Catullus.

CURATE.--If you give way to your imagination, you may invent a thousand meanings to the passage;
but taking it as I find it, I would attach only this meaning to it,--that Catullus would say,
"Lesbia's favourite sparrow" would be as attractive to me as was the golden apple which was
thrown in her way when she was racing, to Atalanta. She was to be married to the first youth
who could outrun her, so that literally she was very much run after.

GRATIAN.--Run after, indeed! Her pursuer, Hippomanes, hadn't my rheumatism (tapping his knee
and leg with his stick) or she would have had the apple, and not him. You young men of modern
days do not throw your golden apples, but look to pick up what you can. These old tales, or
old fables, cast a shade of shame upon our unromantic days. There was a king's daughter offered
like a "handy-cap," as if the worthy of mankind were a racing stud.

AQUILIUS.--But the lady was not so easily won after all; for there were three golden apples
to be picked up: and a bold man was he that threw them, for if he lost, there was neither love
nor mercy for him. The condition was worse than Sinbad's. It is a strange story this of Atalanta
and her lover, turned into lions by Cybele. The passage in Catullus being corrupt, there is
probably an omission, for, as it is, the transition is very abrupt.

GRATIAN.--I see the golden apples running about in all directions, and am half asleep, and
should be quite so but for this rheumatic hint that it is time to retire: so good-night.

Now you will conclude, Eusebius, that I and the Curate made a night and morning of it. On the
present occasion, at least, it was not the case; we very soon parted.

The following morning, which for the season was freshly sunny, found us on a seat under a verandah
near the breakfast room, and close to the aviary, from which we had a moment before come; and
the Curate was then wringing his finger after the bites and pecks the bullfinch had given him,
which Gratian told him, jocularly, was having a comment on the text at his finger's end, and
immediately asked for Catullus. The book was opened--and the Curate put his finger upon the
"Death of Lesbia's Sparrow,"--which he read as he had thus rendered it:--

DE PASSERE MORTUO LESBIÆ.

  Ye Graces, and ye Cupids, mourn,
  And all that's graceful, woman born,
    My sweet one's sparrow dead!
  Smitten by death's fatal arrow
    Lies my darling's darling sparrow!
  As the eyes in her sweet head
    She did love him, and he knew her
    As my fair one knows her mother;
    He was sweet as honey to her,
    In her lap for ever sitting,
    Hither thither round her flitting,
    To his mistress and no other
    He address'd his twittering tale.
    Now adown death's darksome vale
    He is gone to seek a bourn
    Whence they tell us none return.
    Plague upon you, dark and narrow
    Shades of Orcus, without pity
    Swallowing every thing that's pretty--
    As ye took the pretty sparrow.
    Wo's the day that you lie dead!
    Little wretch, 'tis all your doing
    That my fair one's eyes are red,
    Swoln and red with tearful rueing.

AQUILIUS.--It would be childish to blame the poor bird for the crime of dying, as if he had
died out of spite; when, if the truth could be told, perhaps the cat killed him. (At this moment,
Gratian's favourite cat rubbed herself against his legs, first her face and head, and then
her back, and looked up to him, as if begging him to plead for her race; and he did so, and
spoke kindly to her, and said, pussey would not kill any bird though he should trust her in
the aviary; and she, as if she knew what he said, walked off to it, and rubbed her face against
the wires, and returned to us again.) Well, I continued, I don't see why the bird should be
called wretch fer that; and factum male means to express misfortune, not fault. So let the
malefactum be the Curate's, and treat him accordingly.

GRATIAN.--Come, let us see your bird. Perhaps it may be necessary to kill two with one stone.
But I forget--the bird is dead already.

AQUILIUS.--

DE PASSERE MORTUO LESBIÆ.

  Ye Cupids, every Queen of Love,
    Whate'er hath heart or beauty, shed
    Your floods of tears, now hang the head--
  My darling's sparrow, pet, and dove,
  Is dead: that bird she prized above
    Her own sweet eyes, is dead, is dead.

  That little bird, that honey bird,
    As fair child knows her mother, knew
    His own own mistress; and he, too,
  From her sweet bosom never stirred,
  As prompt at every look and word,
    He to that nest of softness flew.

  But archly pert and debonnair,
    Still further in he fondly nestled,
    For her alone piped, chirped, and whistled.
  But he has reached that dismal where,
  Whose dreary path none ever dare
    Retrace, with whom death once hath wrestled.

  O Orcus' unrequiting shade,
    Devouring all the good, the dear,
    Couldst thou not spare one birdling here?
  Alas, poor thing! for thou hast made
  Her eyes, how loved, with grief o'erweighed,
    Grow red, and gush with many a tear.

CURATE.--Is that translating? Look at the first line of the original--

  Lugete, o Veneres, Cupidinesque.

You have acted the undertaker to the sorrow, dressed it out, and protracted it, and set it
afloat upon a river of wo, with Queens of Love as chief-mourners, hanging out their weepers.

AQUILIUS.--Yes, for the Zephyrs to blow. They are light, airy, graceful. They did not come
from the first room of the mourning institution, where the soft-slippered man in black gently,
and bowing low as he shows his grief-items, whispers, "Much in vogue for deep affliction."
The Queens of Love pass on to "the mitigated wo department," and I hope you will confess they
have put on their sorrow with grace and taste.

GRATIAN.--That's good--"the mitigated wo department." But there's a department in these establishments
farther on still. There is a little glass door, generally left half open, where there is a
most delicate show of "orange blossoms." But my good worthy Curate, I don't blame our friend
for this little enlargement, because, if it is not in the words of the original, it is every
bit of it in the tune and melody of the verses. See how it swells out in full flow in "venustiorum,"--stays
but a moment, and is off again without stop to "puellæ,"--and that again is repeated ere grief
can be said to take any rest. I shall acquit the translator as I would the landscape painter,
who, seeing how flowing a line of easy and graceful beauty pervades all nature, and is indeed
her great characteristic, rather aims to realise that, than laboriously to dot in every leaf
and flower. Characteristic expression is every thing. I am not quite satisfied that either
of you have hit the

  Flendo turgiduli rubent ocelli.

CURATE.--If we have not, you remember that Juvenal has, and hit those eyes rather hard, considering
whose they are. He, however, only meant the hit for Catullus:

                        nec tibi, cujus
  Turbavit nitidos extinctus passer ocellos.

GRATIAN.--Turbavit is "mitigated wo" again:

  Unlike the Lesbias of our modern years,
  Who for a sparrow's death dissolve in tears.

AQUILIUS.--Satire is like a flail, an ugly weapon in a crowd, and hits more than it aims at.
I won't allow the blow to be a true hit on Catullus. But let us pass on; there is a vessel
waiting for us, though we should be loth to trust to her sheathing, no longer sea-worthy. Our
poet now addresses his yacht. Are there many of the "Club" who would write better verses on theirs?

DE PHASELO, QUO IN PATRIAM REVECTUS EST.

  This bark that now, my friends, you see,
    Asserts she once was far more swift
  Than other craft, whate'er the tree
    Might ply the oar or sailyard shift,
  She passed them all on every sea.

  She asked the Cyclad Isles to say--
  Can they deny--rough Adria's shore,
  Proud Rhodes, and every land that lay
    Where savage Thracia's tempests roar--
  She asked her native Pontic bay--

  Where first her leafy crown was stirred
    By winds that swept Cytorian rocks.
  (Through rustling leaves her voice was heard.)
    And you, Cytorus, crowned with box,
  And you, Amastris, hear the word.

  For all, she says, was known to you,
    And still is known. For on your top
  She first took root and proudly grew,
    Till severed trunk and branches drop,
  And keel and oars thy waves embue.

  How oft she bore, when winds were light,
    Her master over sea and strait,
  Stemmed currents strong, and tacked to right
    Or left, and bravely held the weight
  Of breeze that strained her canvass tight.

  Nor was there need for her to make
    Or costly vows, or incense burn;
  Or sea-shore gods her guides to take
    On her last voyage, last return,
  From sea-ward to this limpid lake.

  Now all is o'er--grown old, in rest
    She waits decay--with homage due,
  And grateful thought, and prayer addressed,
    She dedicates herself to you,
  Twin stars, twin gods, twin brothers blest.

GRATIAN.--Ah! well done, poor old timber-toe--laid up at last--no "mutile lignum," that's clear
enough. I hope she had a soft berth, and lay evenly in it. It is quite uncomfortable to see
a poor thing, though it be little more than decayed ribs, with hard rock piercing them here
and there, and the creature labouring still to keep the life in and weather out of her unsupported
sides and bottom, and looking piteously to be moved off those jutting points that pin her down
in pain, as boys serve a cock-chafer. He is a hard man that does not animate inanimate things.
He is out of nature's kin. All sailors love their ships, and they are glorious. Catullus is
more to my humour here than in his love-lines on Lesbia. She could get another lover, and if
truth be told, and that by Catullus himself, did; but his poor boat! If captured and taken
to the slave-market, she would not find a bidder. Well, well, it is pleasanter to see her laid
up high and dry, with now and then her master's and owner's affectionate eye upon her, than
to look at the broom at her mast head. Catullus knew the wood she came from, and how it grew--it
had vitality, and he never can believe it quite gone.

AQUILIUS.--There is a poem by Turner on this subject.

GRATIAN.--By Turner?--what Turner?--You don't mean, "The Fallacies of Hope" Turner?

AQUILIUS.--The same--but I should be sorry indeed, to see a vessel built after the measure
of his verses. She would require too nice an adjustment of ballast. I doubt if she would bear
a rough sea. The poem I speak of was written with his palette's pen. It was the towing in the
old Temeraire to be broken up. There she was, on the waters, as her own element, a Leviathan
still, a history of "battle and of breeze"--behind her the night coming in, sun setting, and
in glory too. Her days are over, and she is towed in to her last anchorage. The feeling of
the picture was touching, and there was a dignity and greatness in it of mighty charm.

GRATIAN.--I remember it well, and it is well remembered now: but here is the Curate with his
paper in his hand: let us hear what he has to say.

CURATE.--I have the worse chance with you, for you have poeticised the subject so much more
largely than Catullus himself, that you will listen with less pleasure to my translation; but
you shall have it.

DEDICATIO PHASELI.

  Strangers, the bark you see, doth say
    Of ships the fleetest far was she.

AQUILIUS.--Stay for a moment: "the fleetest," then she was one of a fleet, and sailed perhaps
under convoy, and ought not to have outsailed the fleet--say quickest.

GRATIAN.--No interruption, or by this baculus! Go on, Mr. Curate.

CURATE.--If you please, I'll heave anchor again.

  Strangers, this bark you see doth say,
    Of ships the fleetest far was she:
  And that she passed and flew away
    From every hull that ploughed the sea,
  That fought against, or used the gale
    With hand-like oar or wing-like sail.

  She cites, as witness to her word,
    The frowning Adriatic strand;
  The Cyclades which rocks engird,
    And noted Rhodus' distant land;
  Propontis and unkindly Thrace,
    And Savage Pontus' billowy race.

  That which is now a shallop here,
    Was once a tract of tressed wood,
  Its foliage was Cytorus' gear,
    Upon the topmost ridge it stood,
  And when the morning breeze awoke
    Its whistling leaves the silence broke.

  Pontic Amastris, says the bark,
    Box-overgrown Cytorus, you
  Know me by each familiar mark,
    And testify the tale is true.
  She says you saw her earliest birth
    Upon your nursing mountain-earth,

  She dipped her blades, a maiden launch,
    First in your waves, and bent her course
  Thence, ever to her master staunch,
    Through seas that plied their utmost force.
  If right or left the breeze did strike,
    Or gentle Jove did strain alike,

  Each sheet before the wind. She came
    From that remotest ocean-spot
  To this clear inlet, still the same,
    And yet audaciously forgot
  The bribes which, under doubtful skies,
  Are vowed to sea-side deities.

  Her deeds are done, her tale is told,
    For those were feats of bygone strength;
  In secret peace she now grows old,
    And dedicates herself at length,
  Twin-brother Castor, at thy shrine,
  And Castor's brother twin, at thine.

GRATIAN.--Hand me the book. I thought so--that "audaciously forgot" is your audacious interpolation.
She does not forget her vows, for she never made any. You bring her back, good Master Curate,
not a little in the sulks, like a runaway wife, that had forgotten her vows, and remembered
all her audacity. We see her reluctantly taken in tow--looking like a profligate, weary, and
voyage worn, buffeted and beaten by more storms than she likes to tell of. You must alter audaciously.

AQUILIUS.--And I object to bribes; it is a satire upon the underwriters.

CURATE.--The underwriters?

AQUILIUS.--Yes, the "Littoralibus Diis;" what were they but an insurance company, with their
chief temple, some Roman "Lloyd's," and offices in every sea-port?

CURATE.--Or perhaps the "Littoralibus Diis," referred to a "coast-guard."

GRATIAN.--Worse and worse, for that would imply that they took bribes, and that she was an
old smuggler. Keep to the original, and if you will modernize Catullus, you must merely say,
she was so safe a boat that the owner did not think it worth while to insure.

CURATE.--The learned themselves dispute as to the identity of the "Dii Littorales." In the
notes, I find they are said to be Glaucus, Nereus, Melicerta, Neptune, Thetis, and others;
but in the notes to Statius, you will find Gevartius bids the aforesaid learned tell that to
the marines. He knows better. I remember his words,--"Sed male illi marinos et littorales deos
confundunt. Littorales enim potissimum Dii Cælestes erant, Pallas, Apollo, Hercules, &c., unde
illi potius apud Catullum sunt intelligendi."

GRATIAN.--She might have been doubly insured; for besides Glaucus, Neptune, Thetis, and Co.,
there was the company registered by Gevartius.

CURATE.--I have looked again at the passage, and think I have not quite given the meaning of
"novissimo." I doubt if it does mean remote--it more likely means the last voyage--so let me
substitute this:--

                   She came,
  'Twas her last voyage, from far sea,
  To this clear inlet-home, the same
  Good bark and true, and proudly free
  From vows which under doubtful skies,
  Are made to sea-side Deities.

GRATIAN.--Probatum est.--We have, however, run the vessel down. Let me see what comes next.
Oh, "To Lesbia." This is the old well-known deliciously elegant little piece that I remember
we were wont to try our luck with in our youth; and many a translation of it may yet be found
among half-forgotten trifles. We are, some of us, it is true, a little out of this cherry-season
of kissing--there is a time for all things, and so there was a time for that. It is pleasant
still to trifle with the subject: even the wise Socrates played with it in one of his dialogues,
and so may we, innocently enough. Though there be some greybeards, (no, I am wrong, they are
not greybeards, but grave-airs, and they, more shame to them, with scarcely a beard at all,)
that would open the book here, and shut it again in haste, and look as if they had just come
out of the cave of Trophonius. That is not a healthy and honest purity.

AQUILIUS.--But these do not object to a little professional kissing.

GRATIAN.--More shame to them--that is the worst of all, but pass on; here is nothing but a
little harmless play. Yet I don't see why the young poet, (you know he died at thirty,) should
mock his elders in "rumoresque senum severiorum," these "sayings of severe old men." Why should
old men be severe? O' my conscience, I believe they are far less severe than the young. Had
I been present when the poet indited this to his Lesbia, I might just have ventured to hint
to him thus:--"My dear friend, you have had enough, perhaps too much of kissing; my advice
is, that you keep it to yourself, and tell it to no one; and don't despise the words of us
old men, and mine are words of advice, that if not married already, after all this kissing,
you take her, your Lesbia, to wife, as soon as you conveniently can."

This was pronounced with an amusingly affected gravity. I and the Curate assumed the submissive.
We were, as I told you, Eusebius, sitting under the verandah, and very near the breakfast room;
the window of which (down to the ground) was open. While our good old friend and host was thus
Socratically lecturing, I saw a ribbon catch the air, and float out towards us a little from
the window--then appeared half a bonnet, inclined on one side, and downwards, as of one endeavouring
to catch sounds more clearly. Seeing that it continued in this position, as soon as my friend
had uttered the last words, I walked hastily towards the room, and saw the no very prepossessing
countenance of a lady, whose privilege it is to be called young. She blushed, or rather reddened,
and boldly came forward, and addressed our friend,--that she had come to see some of the family
on a little business for the "visiting and other societies," and seeing us so enjoying ourselves
out of doors, she could not but come forward to pay her respects, adding, with a look at the
Curate, whom she evidently thought to be under reproof, that she hoped she had not arrived
mal-apropos. Our friend introduced her thus,--Ah, my dear Miss Lydia Prate-apace, is that you?--glad
to see you. But (retaining his assumed gravity,) you are not safe here: there has been too
much kissing, and too much talk about it, for one of your known rectitude to hear. Dear me,
said she, you don't say so: then I shall bid good-day; and with an inquisitive look at me,
and an awful one at the Curate, she very nimbly tripped off. You will be sure to hear of that
again, said I to the Curate. He laughed incredulous, in his innocency. Not unlikely, upon my
word, said Gratian; for I see them there trotting down the church-path, Lydia Prate-apace,
and her friend Clarissa Gadabout; so look to yourself, Mr. Curate. But we have had enough for
the present. I must just take a look at my mangel, and my orchard, which you must know is my
piggery. Good-bye for the present. In the evening we meet again in the library, and let Catullus
be of our company. It was time to change our quarters; for the little spaniel, knowing the
hour his master would visit his stock, and intending as usual to accompany him, just then ran
in to us, and jumping about and barking, gave us no rest for further discussion.

Ah, that's where we were; I remember we did not like the senum severiorum.

CURATE.--We!!

G.--Yes, we; for the veriest youth that shoots an arrow at old age, is but shooting at himself
some ten or a dozen paces off. I remember, when a boy, being pleased with a translation of
this by Langhorne; but I only remember two stanzas, and cannot but think he left out the "soles
occidere et redire possunt;" if so, he did wrong; and I opine that he vulgarised and removed
all grace from it by the word "pleasure." Life and love, Catullus means to say, are commensurate;
but "pleasure" is a wilful and wanton intrusion. If I remember, his lines are,--

  "Lesbia, live to love and pleasure,
    Careless what the grave may say;
  When each moment is a treasure,
    Why should lovers lose a day?

  Give me then a thousand kisses--
    Twice ten thousand more bestow;
  Till the sum of endless blisses,
    Neither we nor envy know."

Catullus himself might as well have omitted the "malus invidere." Why should he trouble his
head about the matter--envied or not? but now, Mr. Curate, let us hear your version.

CURATE.--AD LESBIAM.

  Love we, live we, Lesbia, proving
  Love in living, life in loving,
  For all the saws of sages caring
  Not one single penny's paring.
  Suns can rise again from setting,
    But our short light,
    Once sunk in night,
  Sleeps a slumber all forgetting:
  Give me then a thousand kisses,
  Still a hundred little blisses--
  Yet a thousand--yet five score,
  Yet a thousand, hundred more.
  Then, when we have made too many
  Thousands, we'll confound them all,
  So as not to know of any
    Number, either great or small;
  Or lest some caitiff grudge our blisses
    When he knows the tale of kisses----

GRATIAN.--Tale is an ambiguous word, "Kiss and tell" is not fair play--Tale, talley, number.
I hope it will be so understood at first reading.--It reminds me of the critical controversy
respecting a passage in "L'Allegro,"--

  "And every shepherd tells his tale
  Under the hawthorn in the dale."

The unsusceptible critic maintained that the shepherd did but count, or take the tale of his
sheep. Why not avoid the ambiguity thus--a hasty emendation.

  "Knowing our amount of kisses."

AQUILIUS.--In the other sense, it will go sadly against him, if Miss Prate-apace should be
a listener--she would like to have all the telling to herself.

GRATIAN.--Doubtless, and matter to tell of too--but, as I suppose that paper in your hand is
your translation of this common-property bit of Latin, read it.

AQUILIUS.--Here it is.

AD LESBIAM.

  We'll live and love while yet 'tis ours,
    To live and love, my Lesbia, dearest,
    And when old greybeard saws thou hearest,
  (Since joy is but the present hour's,)
    We'll laugh them down as none the clearest.

  For suns will set again to rise,
    But our brief day once closed--we slumber
    Long nights, long days--too long to number;--
  Perpetual sleep shall close our eyes,
    And one dark night shall both encumber.

  A thousand kisses then bestow;
    Ten thousand more,--ten thousand blisses,--
    And when we've counted million kisses--
  Begin again,--for, Lesbia, know,
    We way have made mistakes and misses.

  Then let our lips the full amount
    Commingle so, in one delusion,
    Blending beginning with conclusion,
  Nor we, nor envy's self can count
    How many in the sweet confusion.

CURATE.--I protest against this as a translation. There is addition. Catullus says nothing
of "mistakes and misses."

AQUILIUS.--I maintain it is implied in "conturbabimus illa:" it shows they had given up all
idea of counting correctly.

GRATIAN.--I think it may pass; but you have a word twice,--"day closed," and "close our eyes."
Why not have it thus:--

"But our brief day once o'er," or once pass'd,--yet it is not so good, as "closed." I see in
the note on "conturbabimus," great stress is laid on the mischievous spell that envy was supposed
to convey, like the "evil eye." This does not make much for Catullus--for a good kiss in real
earnest, not your kiss poetical, might bid defiance to every charm but its own.

CURATE.--There is something of the same superstition in the piece but one following, "malâ
fascinare lingua" alludes evidently to the euphêmia of the Greeks,--the superstition of the
evil eye and evil tongue. The very word invidere seems to have been adopted in its wider sense,
from the particular superstition of the evil eye. The Neapolitans of the present day inherit,
in full possession, both superstitions.

GRATIAN.--Nor are either quite out of England; and I can hardly think that a legacy left us
by the Romans. There is something akin to the feeling in the dislike old country gossips show
to having their likenesses taken. I have known a sketcher pelted for putting in a passing figure.
And I have seen a servant girl, in the house of a friend, who, having never, until she came
into his service, seen a portrait, could not be prevailed upon, for a long while, to go alone
into a room where there were some family portraits. What comes next after all these kisses?

AQUILIUS.--More kisses.

GRATIAN.--Then you force a bad pun from me, and put my aching bones into an omni-bus, and it
is as much as I can do to bear the shaking. Give your account of them, Aquilius.

AQUILIUS.--AD LESBIAM.

  How many kisses will suffice,
    You ask me, Lesbia,--ask a lover!
  Go bid him count the sands;--discover,
    Even to a very grain precise,
  How many lie in heaps, or hover,
  When gusty winds the sand hills stir
    About the benzoin-bearing plain,
    Between Jove's Cyrenean fane,
  And Battus' sacred sepulchre.

  How many stars, in stillest night,
    On loving thefts look down approving,--
  So many kisses should requite
    Catullus, ah too madly loving.--
  Ye curious eyes, be closed in slumber,
    That would be spies upon our wooing,
  That there be none to note the number,
    Nor tongue to babble of our doing.

GRATIAN.--Read that last again--for "my eyes," I confess, were not as "curious" as they should
have been, and were just closing as you came to the wooing.

AQUILIUS.--

  That there be none to note the number,
  Nor tongue to babble of our doing.

GRATIAN.--Well, rubbing his eyes, I am quite awake now; let us have your version, Master Curate.

CURATE.--AD LESBIAM.

  Dost bid me, my Lesbia,
    A number define,
  To fill me, and glut me
    With kisses of thine?

  When equal thy kisses
    The atoms of sand,
  By spicy Cyrene
    On Lybia's strand,

  The sand grains extending
    From Ammon's hot shrine,
  To the tomb of old Battus,
    That land-mark divine.

  Or count me the star-lights
    That see from above,
  In still night, the thievings
    Of mortals in love.

  Thus canst thou, my Lesbia,
    A number assign,
  To glut thy mad lover
    With kisses of thine.

  A number the prying
    To reckon may spare;
  And gossips, unlucky,
    Give up in despair.

GRATIAN.--(After a pause, his eyes half closed,)

  "Give up in despair."

Very mu--si--cal--sooth--ing.

AQUILIUS.--See, you have set our host asleep; and, judging from his last words, his dream will
not be unpleasant. We must not come to a sudden silence, or it will waken him. The murmur of
the brook that invites sleep, is pledged to its continuance. The winds and the pattering rain,
says the Roman elegiast, assist the sleeper.

  Aut gelidas hibernus aquas eum fuderit auster
  Securum somnos imbre juvante sequi.

We must not, however, proceed with our translations. Take up Landor's Pentameron, and begin
where you left off, when we first entered upon this discussion of Catullus. He seemed to give
the preference to Catullus over Horace. Here is the page,--read on.

The Curate at once took the volume and read aloud.--The following passage arrested our attention:--

"In return for my suggestion, pray tell me what is the meaning of

                Obliquo laborat
  Lympha fugax trepidare rivo.

"PETRARCHA.--The moment I learn it you shall have it. Laborat trepidare! lympha rivo! fugax,
too! Fugacity is not the action for hard work or labour.

"BOCCACCIO.--Since you cannot help me out, I must give up the conjecture, it seems, while it
has cost me only half a century. Perhaps it may be curiosa felicitas."

AQUILIUS--Stay there:--that criticism is new to me. I never even fancied there was a difficulty
in the passage. Let us consider it a moment.

CURATE.--Does he then think Horace not very choice in his words? for he seems to be severe
upon the "curiosa felicitas." Surely the diction of the Latin poets is all in all--For their
ideas seem hard stereotyped,--uninterchangeable, the very reverse of the Greek, in whom you
always find some unexpected turn, some new thought, thrown out beautifully in the rapidity
of their conception--excepting in Sophocles--who, attending more to his diction, deals perhaps
a little too much in common-place.

The object of the Latin poets should seem to have been to introduce gracefully, into their
own language, what the Greeks had left them; and the nature of this labour quenched the fire
of originality, if they had any.--It is hard, however, to deny them the fruits of this labour;
and who was more happy in it than Horace?

AQUILIUS.--Surely, and the familiar love that all bear to Horace, confirms your opinion--the
general opinion. Now, I cannot but think Horace happy in his choice of words, in this very
passage of

          obliquo laborat,
  Lympha fugax trepidare rivo.

Let me suggest a meaning, which to me is obvious enough, and I am surprised it should have
escaped so acute and so profound a critic. Horace supposes his friend enjoying the landscape
in remoto gramine, and there describes it accurately; and it is a favourite scene with him,
which he often paints in words, with the introduction of the same imagery. Suppose, then, the
scene to be in remoto gramine at Tiber, our modern Tivoli; where, as I presume, the water was
always, as now, though not in exactly the same way, turned off from the Anio into cut channels;
and such I take to be the meaning generally of rivers, a channel, not a river. And the Lympha
here is appropriate; not the body of the stream, but a portion of its water. In this case,
"obliquo" may express a new direction, and some obstacle in the turn the river takes, where
the water would for a moment seem to labour, "laborare fugax," expressing its desire to escape.
May not, therefore, the first evident meaning be allowed to "trepidare," to tremble, or undulate,
showing the motion a rivulet assumes, just after it has turned the angle of its obstruction.
"Obliquo," may, too, mean the slope, such as would be in a garden at Tivoli, on the verge of
the precipice. Possibly Horace generally uses "rivus" in this sense, "Puræ rivus aquæ."--Then,
again, describing the character of Tibur or Tivoli, he does not say the Anio; but "aquæ," as
in the other instance "Lympha."

  "Sed quæ Tibur aquæ fertile præfluunt,"

--"fertile," being the effect of the irrigation, the purpose for which the aquæ are turned
from the river; and this agrees well with the word præfluunt, as applied to irrigated gardens.
Pliny thus uses the adjective præfluus: "Hortos esse habendos irriguos præfluo amne." But there
is one passage in Horace where this meaning is so distinctly given to rivers, and which is
so characteristic of the very scene of Tibur, that to me it is conclusive.

                 "et uda
  Mobilibus pomarea rivis."

Evidently channels, moveable and diverse at pleasure, for irrigation.

Nor would Horace use Lympha for a river, or be amenable to a charge of such tautology as this:--

  "Labuntur altis interim ripis aquæ,
  Quæruntur in sylvis aves,
  Fontesque Lymphis obstrepunt manantibus,
  Somnos quod inortet leves."

CURATE.--I fancy I now see the garden, where somewhat artificial planting had put together
the "Pinus ingens albaque Populus," to consociate, and form the shady arbour, where the wine
and unguents are to be brought, and through which the rivus passes angularly, and doubtless
with a view to the garden-beauty. It is a sketch from nature of some particular and favourite spot.

AQUILIUS.--Truly, in many places Horace delights to paint this one individual spot. We have
in all, the wood, the waters from their higher banks, making falls such as to induce sleep,
the garden with its shade, and its fountain, near the house, this continual "aquæ fons." Such
as was his "Fons Bandusiæ," not fons a mere spring, but sanctified by architectural art, as
well as feeling.

  "Fies nobilium tu quoque fontium,
  Me dicente cavis impositam illicem
  Saxis, unde loquaces
  Lymphæ desiliunt tuæ."

But listen to what he desired to possess, and did possess.

  "Hoc erat in votis, modus agri non ita magnus,
  Hortus ubi, et tecto vicinus jugis aquæ fons,
  Et paulum sylvæ super his foret."

Is he describing his Sabine villa?--I have a sketch on its site--and there is now, whatever
there may have been in his days, a high bank, over which the water still falls, (I believe
from the Digentia) which by conduits supplied the house, and cattle returned from their labour,
and the flocks. There is a small cascade filling a marble basin (the fountain) and thence flowing
off through the garden. Perhaps he had in these descriptions one or two scenes in his mind's
eye much alike. A poet's geography shifts its scenery ad libitum. But see what his Sabine farm was.

CURATE.--I remember it.

  "Scribetur tibi forma loquaciter, et situs agri."

But does he not in that passage make rivus a river?--

  "Fons etiam rivo dare nomen idoneus, ut nec
  Frigidior Thracam, nec purior ambiat Hebrus."

AQUILIUS.--The river was the Digentia, the cold Digentia.

  "Me quoties reficit gelidus Digentia rivus."

It may be here a river, but not certainly. Do you suppose he went down in sight of the whole
neighbourhood to bathe in the little river? for little river it is, and cold enough, too; for
I have bathed in it, and can testify of its coldness. Would you take him, 1 say, down from
his house to the river itself, when he had it conveyed to his own home by a rivus, or channel,
and by a fons such as has been described, from which, without doubt, he was supplied with water
enough for his hot and his cold baths? The gelidus Digentia rivus, I well know, and, as I said,
bathed in it. A countryman seeing me, cried out, "Fa morir!" The Italians now (at least inland)
never bathe; they have a perfect hydrophobia. Few even wash themselves. I asked a boy, whom
we took about with us to carry our sketching materials, when he had last washed his face. He
confessed he had never washed it, and that nobody did.

CURATE.--We know Horace delighted in Tibur,--his "Tibur argeo, positum colono." In the passage
criticised in the Pentameron, I shall always see Tivoli, with its wood, its rocks, and cascatelle.
He had the scene before him when he wrote,--

            "ego laudo ruris amæni
  Rivos; et museo circumlita saxa, nemusque."

Tibur still; its rocks, woods, and rivus again; and perhaps the "nemus" was "Tiburni lucus."

AQUILIUS.--Perhaps a line in this epistle from the lover of country to the lover of town, may
throw some light on "obliquo" and "trepidare," if indeed he has the scene in his eye.

  "Purior in vicis aqua tendit rumpere plumbum,
  Quam que per pronum trepidat cum murmure rivum."

Great indeed is the difference, whether the water passes through a leaden pipe, or by the rivers,
a mere direction by a channel open to the sky, and whose bed is the rock.

But there is a passage which still more clearly, I think, marks the distinction between the
rivus and the river. The poet invites Mæcenas to the country, and tells him,--

  "Jam pastor umbras cum grege languido
  Rivumque fessus querit, et horridi
  Dumeta Silvani, caretque
  Ripa vagis taciturna ventis."

Now, if the shepherd had driven his flock to the river, all bleating and languid with heat,
the bank of the river would scarcely have been taciturn; doubtless the shepherd sought the
"fontem," into which the water was conveyed, and under shade, a place not exposed to the sun,
or the wind, as was the ripa, the river's bank. And besides, in this passage, the rivos and
the ripa are certainly spoken of as two separate places.

Here our friend and host began to mutter a little. He was evidently going over his model-farm,
while we were at the Sabine. He now talked quicker--"John," (so he always called his hind,
his factotum,) "plant 'em a little farther apart, d'ye see, and trench up well." "That's the
way." "Now, John, d'ye know how--to clap an old head on young shoulders--why dig a trench the
width of the spade, from the stem of an apple-tree, and fill up with good vegetable mould.
First pollard your tree, John." "That's it, John." This and more was said, with a few sleepy
interruptions; he soon awoke, and said with an amusing indifference,--"Well, any more news
of Catullus?"

AQUILIUS.--We left Catullus asleep some time ago, and thinking it probable that you and he
might wake at the same time, we determined to wait for you both, and, in the meanwhile, we
have been discussing a passage in Horace, of which, (for we will not now renew the discussion,)
I will one day hear your opinion. A very favourite author, however, of yours, doubts the felicity
of Horace in the choice of words.

CURATE.--And in the structure of his sentences, and says, "How simple in comparison are Catullus
and Lucretius."

GRATIAN.--Indeed! now I think that is but finding one fault, for the choice of words and construction
of sentences go pretty much together. An ill-constructed sentence can hardly have a good choice
of words, for it is most probably unmusical, and that fault would make the choice a jumble.
If the words were nonsense in Milton, the music of them would make you believe he could have
used no other. They are breathed out so naturally; take the first line of Paradise Lost--it
is in this manner perfect. Good words are, to good thoughts, what the stars are to the night,
sunshine to the brook, flowers to the field, and foliage to the woods; clothing what is otherwise
bare, giving glory to the dark, and to the great and spacious; investing the rugged with grace,
and adding the vigour and motion of life to the inanimate, the motionless, and the solid. I
must defend my friend Horace against all comers.

  "--rura, quæ Liris quietâ
  Mordet aquâ, taciturnus amnis."

Is there a bad choice of words there? How insidiously the silent river indents the banks with
its quiet water, and how true to nature! It is not your turbulent river that eats into the
land, (it may overflow it,) but that ever heavy weight of the taciturn rivers, running not
in a rocky bed, but through a deep soft soil.

CURATE.--You are lucky in your quotation, for we were discussing some such matter. Horace is
particularly happy in his river scenes. Did not he know the value of his own words--he thus
speaks of them:

  "Verba loquor socianda chordis."

AQUILIUS.--Yes, but he speaks of them as immortal. "Ne credas interitura." But if the "socianda
chordis," means they are to be set to music, I deny that music is

  "Married to immortal verse,"

or there has long ago been a divorce. I am told, the more manifest the nonsense, the better
the song.

GRATIAN.--Then I leave you to sing it, and reserve your sense and sense-verses for to-morrow.
But it cannot be till the evening, for I must attend an agricultural meeting in the morning,
some distance off. Would you believe it, I have to defend my own statement. A stupid fellow
said publicly, that he would not believe that the produce of my Belgian carrots, which you
saw, was 360 lbs. per land-yard, which is at the rate of 25 tons, 14 cwt. 1 qr. 4 lbs. per
acre. There are people who will doubt every thing. You see they doubt what I say of my carrots,
and what Horace says of his own words.--So, good-night.

This "good night," Eusebius, was not the abrupt leave-taking which it may here appear. For
our friend's habit was to close the day not unthankful. We regularly retired to the dining-room,
where the servants and family were assembled, and prayers were read. So that this "good-night"
of our excellent host were but his last worldly and social words. And if devotion, and most
kind feelings towards all creatures--man and beast--can ensure pleasant and healthful sleep,
his pillow is a charm against comfortless dreams and rheumatic pains.

There we leave him--and if, Eusebius, you are amused with this our chat, you may look again
for Noctes Catullianæ.

POSTSCRIPT.--This should have gone to you, my dear Eusebius, two days ago, but by some accident
it was left out of the post-bag. By the neglect, however, I am enabled to tell you that our
friend the Curate is in trouble: the very trouble, too, which I foresaw. He came to us this
morning with a very long face, and told us that yesterday, on going as usual to his parochial
Sunday school, he was surprised that nearly all the bigger girls were absent; that the mistress
of the school did not receive him with her usual respect; that the three maiden ladies, Lydia
Prateapace, Clarissa Gadabout, and Barbara Brazenstare, were at the farther end of the room,
affectedly busy with the children; that seeing him, they slightly acknowledged his presence,
as Goldsmith well expresses it, by a "mutilated curtsey." He approached them, and expressed
his surprise at the absence of the elder children. Prateapace looked first down, then away
from him, and said it was no business of hers to question their parents. Miss Gadabout added,
that every body knew the reason. And Brazenstare looked him boldly in the face, and said, she
supposed nobody knew so well as himself. Prateapace put in her word, that now he was come,
there was no need of their presence, as there were not too many to teach. Upon which Gadabout
cried, "Then let us be off: it is quite time we should." And as they were moving off, Brazenstare
turned round and asked him, mutteringly, if he intended to kiss the schoolmistress. Upon this,
he went to some of the parents to inquire respecting the absence of their daughters, and little
satisfaction could he get. They didn't like to say--but people did say--indeed it was all about
the township--that they were quite as well at home, for that they might learn more than the
book taught--for that his honour had been reproved by good Mr. G. for too great familiarity.

So ends the matter, or rather such is the position of affairs at present--the Curate has come
to consult what is to be done. I tell him, that if he knows what he is about, it will proceed
with some violence, then an opposition, and end with offerings of bouquets, and perhaps the
presentation of a piece of plate. Gratian tells him he hopes nothing so bad as that will come
to pass--the Curate almost fears it will, and is vexed at his present awkward position.

You, Eusebius, already see enough mischief in it to delight you; you are, I know, laughing
immoderately, and determine to write the inscription for the plate in perspective. Adieu, ever
yours.      AQUILIUS.

Printed by William Blackwood & Sons, Edinburgh.

Footnotes:

[1] See No. CCCLXXIII, page 555.

[2] See next page.

[3] FORM 25 (a.)

   WEEKLY OUT-DOOR RELIEF LIST, for the quarter ending

              Ordinary.           Medical.  Casual.

              Classes                   Able-bodied.
                                                    Unclassified.

                                  ------ ---------- ------
                                         U p     p
                                         n l   E l
                                         e o   m o
                                         m y   - y
                               8         - e     e
   1   2    3    4 5   7   8 9 &           d     d.
                  6            8
  --- --- ------ ---- ---- ------ ------ --- ------ -----
  M|F M|F M|F|Ch F|Ch F|Ch F|F|Ch M|F|Ch M|F M|F|Ch M|F|Ch
  -+- -+- -+-+-- -+-- -+-- -+-+-- -+-+-- -+- -+-+-- -+-+--
   |   |   | |    |    |    | |    | |    |   | |    | |
   |   |   | |    |    |    | |    | |    |   | |    | |
   |   |   | |    |    |    | |    | |    |   | |    | |
   |   |   | |    |    |    | |    | |    |   | |    | |

                18  ,   District.       Relieving Officer.

                     Ordinary            Medical.  Casual.

                                 F R a
                                 o e n
                    I i   N i    r l d    1st         2d to
                    f n   o n      i      Week.       13th
                          .      w e d                Week.
                    n P     t    h f a ----------- -----------
                    o a r o h A  a   t                  |
         N p w      t r e f e b  t o e                  |
         a a i        i s     s    r                    |
         m u f  W   r s i C Q t  P d o   I           I  |
         e p e  h   e h d l u r  e e f   n     I     n  |  I
           e    e   s , e a a a  r r           n        |  n
         o r i  n   i   n s r c  i e o   M           M  |
         f , f      d w t s t t  o d r   o     K     o  |  K
                b   i h .   e .  d , d   n     i     n  |  i
         t a a  o   n e     r        e   e     n     e  |  n
         h n n  r   g r     l        r   y     d     y  |  d
         e d y  n     e     y        .   .     .     .  |  .
         ----- ---- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- -----+-----
                         |             s. d. s. d. s. d.|s. d.
         ----- ---- ----- ----- ------ ----- ----- -----+-----
                         |                              |
                         |                              |
                         |                              |
                         |             ----- ----- -----+-----
                                                        |
                     TOTALS.                            |

It is possible that a union maybe found in which the number of poor are so few, as to allow
of the four orders of poor--the Ordinary, the Medical, the Casual, and the Unclassified--to
be contained in one book; but in general it would be necessary to separate them and to appropriate
a book to each order; and there are parishes so large, and in which certain classes of poor
abound, as to require separate books for those particular cases.

[4] Elia

[5] If the reader will refer again to the form of "Relief List," he will perceive that there
are three general divisions, named severally, ordinary, medical, and casual. These terms were
preserved, because they are well known in actual practice, rather than because they express
a really broad distinction. The ordinary relief list is supposed to contain all those recipients
of relief who are likely to continue chargeable for a long period. But the distinction attempted
to be drawn between those who may require relief for a long and those who require it for a
short period only, depends upon circumstances too vague and variable to be of any practical
utility. These objections are not applicable to the generic term "medical."

[6] A tradesman is not a shopkeeper, but a mechanic who is skilled in his particular branch
of industry.

[7] In other words, that he will be condemned to slavery, and employed on the public works
in wheeling a barrow.

[8] The belief in hard men, i.e. of men whose skins were impervious to a musket or pistol ball,
was extremely prevalent during the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries. They could be killed
only by a silver bullet. Fitzgerald, the notorious duellist and murderer, in the middle of
the last century, was said to have been a hard man.--See Thoms' Anecdotes and Traditions, printed
for the Camden Society, p. 111.

[9] It must be borne in mind that the priests here alluded to are Danish.

[10] Junker (pronounced Yunker,) the title given to a son of noble family. Fröken (dimin. of
Frue, madam, lady; Ger. Fräulein) is the corresponding title of a young lady of rank.

[11] Madam, applied strictly to ladies of rank only.

[12] The Nisse of the Scandinavian nations is, in many respects, the counterpart of the Scottish
Brownie, while, in others, he occasionally resembles the Devonian and Cornish Pixie and Portune.
He is described as clad in gray, with a pointed red cap. Having once taken up his abode with
a family, it is not easy to dislodge him, as is evident from the following anecdote:--A man,
whose patience was exhausted by the mischievous pranks of a Nisse that dwelt in his house,
resolved on changing his habitation, and leaving his troublesome guest to himself. Having packed
his last cart-load of chattels, he chanced to go to the back of his cart, to see whether all
was safe, when, to his dismay, the Nisse popped his head out of a tub, and with a loud laugh,
said, "See, we flit to-day," (See, idag flytte vi.)--Thiele, Danske Folkesagn, i. p. 134, and
Athenæum, No. 991.

There are also ship Nisses, whose functions consist in shadowing out, as it were, by night
all the work that is to be performed the following day,--to weigh or cast anchor, to hoist
or lower the sails, to furl or reef them--all which operations are forerunners of a storm.
For the duty even of a swabber, he does not consider himself too high, but washes the deck
most delicately clean. Some well-informed persons maintain that this spiritus navalis, or nautical
goblin, proves himself of kindred race with the house or land Nisse by his roguish pranks.
Sometimes he turns the vane, sometimes extinguishes the light in the binnacle, plagues the
ship's dog, and if there chance to be a passenger on board who cannot bear the sea, the rogue
will appear before him with heart-rending grimaces retching in the bucket. If the ship is doomed
to perish, he jumps overboard in the night, and either enters another vessel or swims to land.

[13] According to the Germanic nations, the devil has a horse's, not a cloven foot.

[14] In the original, "Ole Luköje," i.e., Olave Shut-eye, a personage as well known by name
to the children of Denmark, as the dustman is to those of England.

[15] She was no doubt habited en Amazone, as was the fashion in Denmark about the date to which
our story refers. At a much later period, Matilda (sister of our George III.) Queen of Christian
VII. rode in a garb nearly resembling a man's.

[16] Viz. a fox, in allusion to Mikkel's surname of Foxtail.

[17] Two places of public resort and great beauty in the neighbourhood of Copenhagen. On St.
John's (Hans') eve, the former place is thronged with the inhabitants of the capital and vicinity,
for the purpose of drinking the waters of a well held in great esteem.

[18] Reise nach Java, und Ausflüge nach den Inseln Madura und St. Helena. Von Dr. EDUARD SELBERG.
Oldenburg and Amsterdam: 1846.

[19] Trade and Travel in the Far East. London: 1846.

[20] Notes to "Peveril of the Peak."

[21] Notes to "Oliver Newman."

[22] Trial of Charles I. and the Regicides, which I see referred to in "Oliver Newman," but
I have not the book myself.

[23] London Times of that date.

[24] State Trials, ii. 389.

[25] Somers' Tracts, vi. 339.

[26] Carlyle and Clarendon.

[27] Carlyle.

[28] Carlyle.

[29] Clarendon, iii. 590.

[30] Percy's Reliques, 121.

[31] Fasti Oxon. ii. 79.

[32] Letters and Speeches, &c. by Carlyle.

[33] Fasti Oxon. ii. 79.

[34] Carlyle.

[35] Fasti Oxon, ii. p. 79. Anno 1649.

[36] Evelyn's Memoirs, i. 308.

[37] Notes to Peveril of the Peak.

[38] Sir Thomas Herbert's Two Last Years, p. 189.

[39] State Trials, ii. 886.

[40] Lives of the Queens, vol. viii.

[41] Holmes' American Annals.

[42] Isaiah xvi. 3.

[43] Rev. xi. 8.

[44] Rev. xiii. 18.

[45] Holmes' American Annals, in Ann. Also, Notes to "Oliver Newman."

[46] Gatherings from Spain, by Richard Ford. London, 1846.

     An Overland Journey to Lisbon, &c., by T. M. Hughes. London, 1847.

Passages in italics are indicated by underscore.

Superscripted letters are shown in {brackets}.

Due to their width, tables have been split in half.

The first page of this issue is 261.

The following misprints have been corrected:
  "deterimental" corrected to "detrimental" (page 285)
  "architectue" corrected to "architecture" (page 335)
  "appearrance" corrected to "appearance" (page 336
  "assocation" corrected to "association" (page 369)
  "banches" corrected to "branches" (page 369)
  "Fraülein" corrected to "Fräulein" (page 373)
  "triflle" corrected to "trifle"