
The Report of the Commissioners on the British Museum and
  the present state of the Library Catalogue.
On Prisons and Prison Discipline.
On the Copyright of Foreigners and Translators.
On the Primeval Antiquities of Denmark; with illustrations.
On the Discovery of a singular Roman Temple at the source of
  the Seine.
History of Pottery; with engravings.
Villa and Tomb of a Female Gallo-Roman Artist.
Full Reviews of Lord Campbell's Chief Justices; Boutell's Christian
  Monuments in England, with illustrations; Green's Lives
  of the Princesses; the Historical Memoirs of Cardinal Pacca;
  Inkersley's Romanesque and Pointed Architecture in France;
  Cutt's Monumental Slabs and Crosses, with illustrations;
  Garbett's Principles of Design in Architecture; Merivale's
  History of the Romans; Col. Mure's Language and Literature
  of Greece; Recollections of Lord Cloncurry; Evelyn's Diary;
  Townsend's State Trials; and shorter Reviews of many other
  important books.
Every Number contains Notes of the Month, or comments upon
  all passing literary events; Reports of Archaeological Societies;
  and Historical Chronicle.
The well-known Obituary includes, in the last seven numbers,
  Memoirs of H.R.H. the Duke of Cambridge; the Rt. Hon. Sir
  Robert Peel; the Earls of Carnarvon, Macclesfield, and Roscommon;
  the Lords Alvanley, Aylmer, Colville, Godolphin,
  and Lord Jeffrey; Bishops Coleridge and Tottenham; Hon.
  John Simpson; Adm. Sir C. Hamilton, Bart.; Hon. and Rev.
  Sir Henry Leslie, Bart.; Sir Felix Booth, Bart.; Sir James
  Gibson Craig, Bart.; Sir G. Chetwynd, Bart.; Sir Charles
  Forbes, Bart.; Sir Thomas Cartwright, G.C.H.; Lieut.-Gens.
  Sir John Macdonald, Sir James Bathurst, and Sir James
  Buchan; Major-Gen. Sir Archibald Galloway; General Craven;
  Col. Weare; Sir M. I. Brunel; Admirals Sir J. C. Coghill,
  Schomberg, and Hills; the Deans of Salisbury, Hereford,
  and Bristol; the Rev. Canon Bowles; Rev. W. Kirby, F.R.S.;
  Rev. Doctor Byrth; Revs. E. Bickersteth, T. S. Grimshawe,
  and J. Ford; Mr. Serjeant Lewes; William Roche, Esq.;
  John Mirehouse, Esq.; W. C. Townsend, Esq., Q.C.; Thomas
  Stapleton, Esq.; T. F. Dukes, Esq.; J. P. Deering, Esq. R.A.;
  Wordsworth; Ebenezer Elliott; J. C. Calhoun, Esq.; Colonel
  Sawbridge; Lieut. Waghorn; Miss Jane Porter; Mrs. Bartley;
  Madame Dulcken; Thomas Martin, of Liverpool; C. R.
  Forrester (Alfred Crowquill); M. Gay Lussac; Mr. John
  Thom; Mr. John Glover; Mr. R. J. Wyatt; Madame Tussaud. 1850.