DRY-FARMING

A SYSTEM OF AGRICULTURE FOR COUNTRIES UNDER LOW RAINFALL

BY JOHN A. WIDTSOE, A.M., Ph. D

PRESIDENT OF THE AGRICULTURAL COLLEGE OF UTAH

NEW YORK

1920

TO

LEAH

THIS BOOK IS INSCRIBED

JUNE 1, 1910

PREFACE

Nearly six tenths of the earth's land surface receive an annual rainfall of less than twenty
inches, and can be reclaimed for agricultural purposes only by irrigation and dry-farming.
A perfected world-system of irrigation will convert about one tenth of this vast area into
an incomparably fruitful garden, leaving about one half of the earth's land surface to be reclaimed,
if at all, by the methods of dry-farming. The noble system of modern agriculture has been constructed
almost wholly in countries of abundant rainfall, and its applications are those demanded for
the agricultural development of humid regions. Until recently irrigation was given scant attention,
and dry-farming, with its world problem of conquering one half of the earth, was not considered.
These facts furnish the apology for the writing of this book.

One volume, only, in this world of many books, and that less than a year old, is devoted to
the exposition of the accepted dry-farm practices of to-day.

The book now offered is the first attempt to assemble and organize the known facts of science
in their relation to the production of plants, without irrigation, in regions of limited rainfall.
The needs of the actual farmer, who must understand the principles before his practices can
be wholly satisfactory, have been kept in view primarily; but it is hoped that the enlarging
group of dry-farm investigators will also be helped by this presentation of the principles
of dry-farming. The subject is now growing so rapidly that there will soon be room for two
classes of treatment: one for the farmer, and one for the technical student.

This book has been written far from large libraries, and the material has been drawn from the
available sources. Specific references are not given in the text, but the names of investigators
or institutions are found with nearly all statements of fact. The files of the Experiment Station
Record and Der Jahresbericht der Agrikultur Chemie have taken the place of the more desirable
original publications. Free use has been made of the publications of the experiment stations
and the United States Department of Agriculture. Inspiration and suggestions have been sought
and found constantly in the works of the princes of American soil investigation, Hilgard of
California and King of Wisconsin. I am under deep obligation, for assistance rendered, to numerous
friends in all parts of the country, especially to Professor L. A. Merrill, with whom I have
collaborated for many years in the study of the possibilities of dry-farming in Western America.

The possibilities of dry-farming are stupendous. In the strength of youth we may have felt
envious of the great ones of old; of Columbus looking upon the shadow of the greatest continent;
of Balboa shouting greetings to the resting Pacific; of Father Escalante, pondering upon the
mystery of the world, alone, near the shores of America's Dead Sea. We need harbor no such
envyings, for in the conquest of the nonirrigated and nonirrigable desert are offered as fine
opportunities as the world has known to the makers and shakers of empires. We stand before
an undiscovered land; through the restless, ascending currents of heated desert air the vision
comes and goes. With striving eyes the desert is seen covered with blossoming fields, with
churches and homes and schools, and, in the distance, with the vision is heard the laughter
of happy children.

The desert will be conquered.

JOHN A. WIDTSOE.

June 1, 1910.

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTION

DRY-FARMING DEFINED

Dry-farming, as at present understood, is the profitable production of useful crops, without
irrigation, on lands that receive annually a rainfall of 20 inches or less. In districts of
torrential rains, high winds, unfavorable distribution of the rainfall, or other water-dissipating
factors, the term "dry-farming" is also properly applied to farming without irrigation under
an annual precipitation of 25 or even 30 inches. There is no sharp demarcation between dry-and
humid-farming.

When the annual precipitation is under 20 inches, the methods of dry-farming are usually indispensable.
When it is over 30 inches, the methods of humid-farming are employed; in places where the annual
precipitation is between 20 and 30 inches, the methods to be used depend chiefly on local conditions
affecting the conservation of soil moisture. Dry-farming, however, always implies farming under
a comparatively small annual rainfall.

The term "dry-farming" is, of course, a misnomer. In reality it is farming under drier conditions
than those prevailing in the countries in which scientific agriculture originated. Many suggestions
for a better name have been made. "Scientific agriculture" has-been proposed, but all agriculture
should be scientific, and agriculture without irrigation in an arid country has no right to
lay sole claim to so general a title. "Dry-land agriculture," which has also been suggested,
is no improvement over "dry-farming," as it is longer and also carries with it the idea of
dryness. Instead of the name "dry-farming" it would, perhaps, be better to use the names, "arid-farming."
"semiarid-farming," "humid-farming," and "irrigation-farming," according to the climatic conditions
prevailing in various parts of the world. However, at the present time the name "dry-farming"
is in such general use that it would seem unwise to suggest any change. It should be used with
the distinct understanding that as far as the word "dry" is concerned it is a misnomer. When
the two words are hyphenated, however, a compound technical term--"dry-farming"--is secured
which has a meaning of its own, such as we have just defined it to be; and "dry-farming," therefore,
becomes an addition to the lexicon.

Dry-versus humid-farming

Dry-farming, as a distinct branch of agriculture, has for its purpose the reclamation, for
the use of man, of the vast unirrigable "desert" or "semi-desert" areas of the world, which
until recently were considered hopelessly barren. The great underlying principles of agriculture
are the same the world over, yet the emphasis to be placed on the different agricultural theories
and practices must be shifted in accordance with regional conditions. The agricultural problem
of first importance in humid regions is the maintenance of soil fertility; and since modern
agriculture was developed almost wholly under humid conditions, the system of scientific agriculture
has for its central idea the maintenance of soil fertility. In arid regions, on the other hand,
the conservation of the natural water precipitation for crop production is the important problem;
and a new system of agriculture must therefore be constructed, on the basis of the old principles,
but with the conservation of the natural precipitation as the central idea. The system of dry-farming
must marshal and organize all the established facts of science for the better utilization,
in plant growth, of a limited rainfall. The excellent teachings of humid agriculture respecting
the maintenance of soil fertility will be of high value in the development of dry-farming,
and the firm establishment of right methods of conserving and using the natural precipitation
will undoubtedly have a beneficial effect upon the practice of humid agriculture.

The problems of dry-farming

The dry-farmer, at the outset, should know with comparative accuracy the annual rainfall over
the area that he intends to cultivate. He must also have a good acquaintance with the nature
of the soil, not only as regards its plant-food content, but as to its power to receive and
retain the water from rain and snow. In fact, a knowledge of the soil is indispensable in successful
dry-farming. Only by such knowledge of the rainfall and the soil is he able to adapt the principles
outlined in this volume to his special needs.

Since, under dry-farm conditions, water is the limiting factor of production, the primary problem
of dry-farming is the most effective storage in the soil of the natural precipitation. Only
the water, safely stored in the soil within reach of the roots, can be used in crop production.
Of nearly equal importance is the problem of keeping the water in the soil until it is needed
by plants. During the growing season, water may be lost from the soil by downward drainage
or by evaporation from the surface. It becomes necessary, therefore, to determine under what
conditions the natural precipitation stored in the soil moves downward and by what means surface
evaporation may be prevented or regulated. The soil-water, of real use to plants, is that taken
up by the roots and finally evaporated from the leaves. A large part of the water stored in
the soil is thus used. The methods whereby this direct draft of plants on the soil-moisture
may be regulated are, naturally, of the utmost importance to the dry-farmer, and they constitute
another vital problem of the science of dry-farming.

The relation of crops to the prevailing conditions of arid lands offers another group of important
dry-farm problems. Some plants use much less water than others. Some attain maturity quickly,
and in that way become desirable for dry-farming. Still other crops, grown under humid conditions,
may easily be adapted to dry-farming conditions, if the correct methods are employed, and in
a few seasons may be made valuable dry-farm crops. The individual characteristics of each crop
should be known as they relate themselves to a low rainfall and arid soils.

After a crop has been chosen, skill and knowledge are needed in the proper seeding, tillage,
and harvesting of the crop. Failures frequently result from the want of adapting the crop treatment
to arid conditions.

After the crop has been gathered and stored, its proper use is another problem for the dry-farmer.
The composition of dry-farm crops is different from that of crops grown with an abundance of
water. Usually, dry-farm crops are much more nutritious and therefore should command a higher
price in the markets, or should be fed to stock in corresponding proportions and combinations.

The fundamental problems of dry-farming are, then, the storage in the soil of a small annual
rainfall; the retention in the soil of the moisture until it is needed by plants; the prevention
of the direct evaporation of soil-moisture during; the growing season; the regulation of the
amount of water drawn from the soil by plants; the choice of crops suitable for growth under
arid conditions; the application of suitable crop treatments, and the disposal of dry-farm
products, based upon the superior composition of plants grown with small amounts of water.
Around these fundamental problems cluster a host of minor, though also important, problems.
When the methods of dry-farming are understood and practiced, the practice is always successful;
but it requires more intelligence, more implicit obedience to nature's laws, and greater vigilance,
than farming in countries of abundant rainfall.

The chapters that follow will deal almost wholly with the problems above outlined as they present
themselves in the construction of a rational system of farming without irrigation in countries
of limited rainfall.

CHAPTER II

THE THEORETICAL BASIS OF DRY-FARMING

The confidence with which scientific investigators, familiar with the arid regions, have attacked
the problems of dry-farming rests largely on the known relationship of the water requirements
of plants to the natural precipitation of rain and snow. It is a most elementary fact of plant
physiology that no plant can live and grow unless it has at its disposal a sufficient amount
of water.

The water used by plants is almost entirely taken from the soil by the minute root-hairs radiating
from the roots. The water thus taken into the plants is passed upward through the stem to the
leaves, where it is finally evaporated. There is, therefore, a more or less constant stream
of water passing through the plant from the roots to the leaves.

By various methods it is possible to measure the water thus taken from the soil. While this
process of taking water from the soil is going on within the plant, a certain amount of soil-moisture
is also lost by direct evaporation from the soil surface. In dry-farm sections, soil-moisture
is lost only by these two methods; for wherever the rainfall is sufficient to cause drainage
from deep soils, humid conditions prevail.

Water for one pound dry matter

Many experiments have been conducted to determine the amount of water used in the production
of one pound of dry plant substance. Generally, the method of the experiments has been to grow
plants in large pots containing weighed quantities of soil. As needed, weighed amounts of water
were added to the pots. To determine the loss of water, the pots were weighed at regular intervals
of three days to one week. At harvest time, the weight of dry matter was carefully determined
for each pot. Since the water lost by the pots was also known, the pounds of water used for
the production of every pound of dry matter were readily calculated.

The first reliable experiments of the kind were undertaken under humid conditions in Germany
and other European countries. From the mass of results, some have been selected and presented
in the following table. The work was done by the famous German investigators, Wollny, Hellriegel,
and Sorauer, in the early eighties of the last century. In every case, the numbers in the table
represent the number of pounds of water used for the production of one pound of ripened dry
substance:

Pounds Of Water For One Pound Of Dry Matter

           Wollny  Hellreigel  Sorauer
Wheat              338         459
Oats       665     376         569
Barley             310         431
Rye        774     353         236
Corn       233
Buckwheat  646     363
Peas       416     273
Horsebeans         282
Red clover         310
Sunflowers 490
Millet     447

It is clear from the above results, obtained in Germany, that the amount of water required
to produce a pound of dry matter is not the same for all plants, nor is it the same under all
conditions for the same plant. In fact, as will be shown in a later chapter, the water requirements
of any crop depend upon numerous factors, more or less controllable. The range of the above
German results is from 233 to 774 pounds, with an average of about 419 pounds of water for
each pound of dry matter produced.

During the late eighties and early nineties, King conducted experiments similar to the earlier
German experiments, to determine the water requirements of crops under Wisconsin conditions.
A summary of the results of these extensive and carefully conducted experiments is as follows:--

Oats     385 Barley   464 Corn     271 Peas     477 Clover   576 Potatoes 385

The figures in the above table, averaging about 446 pounds, indicate that very nearly the same
quantity of water is required for the production of crops in Wisconsin as in Germany. The Wisconsin
results tend to be somewhat higher than those obtained in Europe, but the difference is small.

It is a settled principle of science, as will be more fully discussed later, that the amount
of water evaporated from the soil and transpired by plant leaves increases materially with
an increase in the average temperature during the growing season, and is much higher under
a clear sky and in districts where the atmosphere is dry. Wherever dry-farming is likely to
be practiced, a moderately high temperature, a cloudless sky, and a dry atmosphere are the
prevailing conditions. It appeared probable therefore, that in arid countries the amount of
water required for the production of one pound of dry matter would be higher than in the humid
regions of Germany and Wisconsin. To secure information on this subject, Widtsoe and Merrill
undertook, in 1900, a series of experiments in Utah, which were conducted upon the plan of
the earlier experimenters. An average statement of the results of six years' experimentation
is given in the subjoined table, showing the number of pounds of water required for one pound
of dry matter on fertile soils:--

Wheat       1048 Corn        589 Peas        1118 Sugar Beets 630

These Utah findings support strongly the doctrine that the amount of water required for the
production of each pound of dry matter is very much larger under arid conditions, as in Utah,
than under humid conditions, as in Germany or Wisconsin. It must be observed, however, that
in all of these experiments the plants were supplied with water in a somewhat wasteful manner;
that is, they were given an abundance of water, and used the largest quantity possible under
the prevailing conditions. No attempt of any kind was made to economize water. The results,
therefore, represent maximum results and can be safely used as such. Moreover, the methods
of dry-farming, involving the storage of water in deep soils and systematic cultivation, were
not employed. The experiments, both in Europe and America, rather represent irrigated conditions.
There are good reasons for believing that in Germany, Wisconsin, and Utah the amounts above
given can be materially reduced by the employment of proper cultural methods.

The water in the large bottle would be required to produce the grain in the small bottle.

In view of these findings concerning the water requirements of crops, it cannot be far from
the truth to say that, under average cultural conditions, approximately 750 pounds of water
are required in an arid district for the production of one pound of dry matter. Where the aridity
is intense, this figure may be somewhat low, and in localities of sub-humid conditions, it
will undoubtedly be too high. As a maximum average, however, for districts interested in dry-farming,
it can be used with safety.

Crop-producing power of rainfall

If this conclusion, that not more than 750 pounds of water are required under ordinary dry-farm
conditions for the production of one pound of dry matter, be accepted, certain interesting
calculations can be made respecting the possibilities of dry-farming. For example, the production
of one bushel of wheat will require 60 times 750, or 45,000 pounds of water. The wheat kernels,
however, cannot be produced without a certain amount of straw, which under conditions of dry-farming
seldom forms quite one half of the weight of the whole plant. Let us say, however, that the
weights of straw and kernels are equal. Then, to produce one bushel of wheat, with the corresponding
quantity of straw, would require 2 times 45,000, or 90,000 pounds of water. This is equal to
45 tons of water for each bushel of wheat. While this is a large figure, yet, in many localities,
it is undoubtedly well within the truth. In comparison with the amounts of water that fall
upon the land as rain, it does not seem extraordinarily large.

One inch of water over one acre of land weighs approximately 226,875 pounds. or over 113 tons.
If this quantity of water could be stored in the soil and used wholly for plant production,
it would produce, at the rate of 45 tons of water for each bushel, about 2-1/2 bushels of wheat.
With 10 inches of rainfall, which up to the present seems to be the lower limit of successful
dry-farming, there is a maximum possibility of producing 25 bushels of wheat annually.

In the subjoined table, constructed on the basis of the discussion of this chapter, the wheat-producing
powers of various degrees of annual precipitation are shown:--

One acre inch of water will produce 2-1/2 bushels of wheat.

Ten acre inches of water will produce 25 bushels of wheat.

Fifteen acre inches of water will produce 37-1/2 bushels of wheat.

Twenty acre inches of water will produce 50 bushels of wheat.

It must be distinctly remembered, however, that under no known system of tillage can all the
water that falls upon a soil be brought into the soil and stored there for plant use. Neither
is it possible to treat a soil so that all the stored soil-moisture may be used for plant production.
Some moisture, of necessity, will evaporate directly from the soil, and some may be lost in
many other ways. Yet, even under a rainfall of 12 inches, if only one half of the water can
be conserved, which experiments have shown to be very feasible, there is a possibility of producing
30 bushels of wheat per acre every other year, which insures an excellent interest on the money
and labor invested in the production of the crop.

It is on the grounds outlined in this chapter that students of the subject believe that ultimately
large areas of the "desert" may be reclaimed by means of dry-farming. The real question before
the dry-farmer is not, "Is the rainfall sufficient?" but rather, "Is it possible so to conserve
and use the rainfall as to make it available for the production of profitable crops?"

CHAPTER III

DRY-FARM AREAS--RAINFALL

The annual precipitation of rain and snow determines primarily the location of dry-farm areas.
As the rainfall varies, the methods of dry-farming must be varied accordingly. Rainfall, alone,
does not, however, furnish a complete index of the crop-producing possibilities of a country.

The distribution of the rainfall, the amount of snow, the water-holding power of the soil,
and the various moisture-dissipating causes, such as winds, high temperature, abundant sunshine,
and low humidity frequently combine to offset the benefits of a large annual precipitation.
Nevertheless, no one climatic feature represents, on the average, so correctly dry-farming
possibilities as does the annual rainfall. Experience has already demonstrated that wherever
the annual precipitation is above 15 inches, there is no need of crop failures, if the soils
are suitable and the methods of dry-farming are correctly employed. With an annual precipitation
of 10 to 15 inches, there need be very few failures, if proper cultural precautions are taken.
With our present methods, the areas that receive less than 10 inches of atmospheric precipitation
per year are not safe for dry-farm purposes. What the future will show in the reclamation of
these deserts, without irrigation, is yet conjectural.

Arid, semiarid, and sub-humid

Before proceeding to an examination of the areas in the United States subject to the methods
of dry-farming it may be well to define somewhat more clearly the terms ordinarily used in
the description of the great territory involved in the discussion.

The states lying west of the 100th meridian are loosely spoken of as arid, semiarid, or sub-humid
states. For commercial purposes no state wants to be classed as arid and to suffer under the
handicap of advertised aridity. The annual rainfall of these states ranges from about 3 to
over 30 inches.

In order to arrive at greater definiteness, it may be well to assign definite rainfall values
to the ordinarily used descriptive terms of the region in question. It is proposed, therefore,
that districts receiving less than 10 inches of atmospheric precipitation annually, be designated
arid; those receiving between 10 and 20 inches, semiarid; those receiving between 20 and 30
inches, sub-humid, and those receiving over 30 inches, humid. It is admitted that even such
a classification is arbitrary, since aridity does not alone depend upon the rainfall, and even
under such a classification there is an unavoidable overlapping. However, no one factor so
fully represents varying degrees of aridity as the annual precipitation, and there is a great
need for concise definitions of the terms used in describing the parts of the country that
come under dry-farming discussions. In this volume, the terms "arid," "semiarid," "sub-humid"
and "humid" are used as above defined.

Precipitation over the dry-farm territory

Nearly one half of the United States receives 20 inches or less rainfall annually; and that
when the strip receiving between 20 and 30 inches is added, the whole area directly subject
to reclamation by irrigation or dry-farming is considerably more than one half (63 per cent)
of the whole area of the United States.

Eighteen states are included in this area of low rainfall. The areas of these, as given by
the Census of 1900, grouped according to the annual precipitation received, are shown below:--

Arid to Semi-arid Group Total Area Land Surface (Sq. Miles)

Arizona     112,920 California  156,172 Colorado    103,645 Idaho        84,290 Nevada    
109,740 Utah         82,190 Wyoming      97,545 TOTAL       746,532

Semiarid to Sub-Humid Group

Montana     145,310 Nebraska     76,840 New Mexico  112,460 North Dakota 70,195 Oregon    
94,560 South Dakota 76,850 Washington   66,880 TOTAL       653,095

Sub-Humid to Humid Group

Kansas       81,700 Minnesota    79,205 Oklahoma     38,830 Texas       262,290 TOTAL       462,025

GRAND TOTAL 1,861,652

The territory directly interested in the development of the methods of dry-farming forms 63
per cent of the whole of the continental United States, not including Alaska, and covers an
area of 1,861,652 square miles, or 1,191,457,280 acres. If any excuse were needed for the lively
interest taken in the subject of dry-farming, it is amply furnished by these figures showing
the vast extent of the country interested in the reclamation of land by the methods of dry-farming.
As will be shown below, nearly every other large country possesses similar immense areas under
limited rainfall.

Of the one billion, one hundred and ninety-one million, four hundred and fifty-seven thousand,
two hundred and eighty acres (1,191,457,280) representing the dry-farm territory of the United
States, about 22 per cent, or a little more than one fifth, is sub-humid and receives between
20 and 30 inches of rainfall, annually; 61 per cent, or a little more than three fifths, is
semiarid and receives between 10 and 20 inches, annually, and about 17 per cent, or a little
less than one fifth, is arid and receives less than 10 inches of rainfall, annually.

These calculations are based upon the published average rainfall maps of the United States
Weather Bureau. In the far West, and especially over the so-called "desert" regions, with their
sparse population, meteorological stations are not numerous, nor is it easy to secure accurate
data from them. It is strongly probable that as more stations are established, it will be found
that the area receiving less than 10 inches of rainfall annually is considerably smaller than
above estimated. In fact, the United States Reclamation Service states that there are only
70,000,000 acres of desert-like land; that is, land which does not naturally support plants
suitable for forage. This area is about one third of the lands which, so far as known, at present
receive less than 10 inches of rainfall, or only about 6 per cent of the total dry-farming
territory.

In any case, the semiarid area is at present most vitally interested in dry-farming. The sub-humid
area need seldom suffer from drouth, if ordinary well-known methods are employed; the arid
area, receiving less than 10 inches of rainfall, in all probability, can be reclaimed without
irrigation only by the development of more suitable. methods than are known to-day. The semiarid
area, which is the special consideration of present-day dry-farming represents an area of over
725,000,000 acres of land. Moreover, it must be remarked that the full certainty of crops in
the sub-humid regions will come only with the adoption of dry-farming methods; and that results
already obtained on the edge of the "deserts" lead to the belief that a large portion of the
area receiving less than 10 inches of rainfall, annually, will ultimately be reclaimed without
irrigation.

Naturally, not the whole of the vast area just discussed could be brought under cultivation,
even under the most favorable conditions of rainfall. A very large portion of the territory
in question is mountainous and often of so rugged a nature that to farm it would be an impossibility.
It must not be forgotten, however, that some of the best dry-farm lands of the West are found
in the small mountain valleys, which usually are pockets of most fertile soil, under a good
supply of rainfall. The foothills of the mountains are almost invariably excellent dry-farm
lands. Newell estimates that 195,000,000 acres of land in the arid to sub-humid sections are
covered with a more or less dense growth of timber. This timbered area roughly represents the
mountainous and therefore the nonarable portions of land. The same authority estimates that
the desert-like lands cover an area of 70,000,000 acres. Making the most liberal estimates
for mountainous and desert-like lands, at least one half of the whole area, or about 600,000,000
acres, is arable land which by proper methods may be reclaimed for agricultural purposes. Irrigation
when fully developed may reclaim not to exceed 5 per cent of this area. From any point of view,
therefore, the possibilities involved in dry-farming in the United States are immense.

Dry-farm area of the world

Dry-farming is a world problem. Aridity is a condition met and to be overcome upon every continent.
McColl estimates that in Australia, which is somewhat larger than the continental United States
of America, only one third of the whole surface receives above 20 inches of rainfall annually;
one third receives from 10 to 20 inches, and one third receives less than lO inches. That is,
about 1,267,000,000 acres in Australia are subject to reclamation by dry-farming methods. This
condition is not far from that which prevails in the United States, and is representative of
every continent of the world. The following table gives the proportions of the earth's land
surface under various degrees of annual precipitations:--

Annual Precipitation  Proportion of Earth's Land Surface Under 10 inches       25.0 per cent
From 10 to 20 inches  30.0 per cent From 20 to 40 inches  20.0 per cent From 40 to 60 inches
11.0 per cent From 60 to 80 inches   9.0 per cent From 100 to 120 inches 4.0 per cent From
120 to 160 inches 0.5 per cent Above 160 inches       0.5 per cent Total                  100
per cent

Fifty-five per cent, or more than one half of the total land surface of the earth, receives
an annual precipitation of less than 20 inches, and must be reclaimed, if at all, by dry-farming.
At least 10 per cent more receives from 20 to 30 inches under conditions that make dry-farming
methods necessary. A total of about 65 per cent of the earth's land surface is, therefore,
directly interested in dry-farming. With the future perfected development of irrigation systems
and practices, not more than 10 per cent will be reclaimed by irrigation. Dry-farming is truly
a problem to challenge the attention of the race.

CHAPTER IV

DRY-FARM AREAS.--GENERAL CLIMATIC FEATURES

The dry-farm territory of the United States stretches from the Pacific seaboard to the 96th
parallel of longitude, and from the Canadian to the Mexican boundary, making a total area of
nearly 1,800,000 square miles. This immense territory is far from being a vast level plain.
On the extreme east is the Great Plains region of the Mississippi Valley which is a comparatively
uniform country of rolling hills, but no mountains. At a point about one third of the whole
distance westward the whole land is lifted skyward by the Rocky Mountains, which cross the
country from south to northwest. Here are innumerable peaks, canons, high table-lands, roaring
torrents, and quiet mountain valleys. West of the Rockies is the great depression known as
the Great Basin, which has no outlet to the ocean. It is essentially a gigantic level lake
floor traversed in many directions by mountain ranges that are offshoots from the backbone
of the Rockies. South of the Great Basin are the high plateaus, into which many great chasms
are cut, the best known and largest of which is the great Canon of the Colorado. North and
east of the Great Basin is the Columbia River Basin characterized by basaltic rolling plains
and broken mountain country. To the west, the floor of the Great Basin is lifted up into the
region of eternal snow by the Sierra Nevada Mountains, which north of Nevada are known as the
Cascades. On the west, the Sierra Nevadas slope gently, through intervening valleys and minor
mountain ranges, into the Pacific Ocean. It would be difficult to imagine a more diversified
topography than is possessed by the dry-farm territory of the United States.

Uniform climatic conditions are not to be expected over such a broken country. The chief determining
factors of climate--latitude, relative distribution of land and water, elevation, prevailing
winds--swing between such large extremes that of necessity the climatic conditions of different
sections are widely divergent. Dry-farming is so intimately related to climate that the typical
climatic variations must be pointed out.

The total annual precipitation is directly influenced by the land topography, especially by
the great mountain ranges. On the east of the Rocky Mountains is the sub-humid district, which
receives from 20 to 30 inches of rainfall annually; over the Rockies themselves, semiarid conditions
prevail; in the Great Basin, hemmed in by the Rockies on the east and the Sierra Nevadas on
the west, more arid conditions predominate; to the west, over the Sierras and down to the seacoast,
semiarid to sub-humid conditions are again found.

Seasonal distribution of rainfall

It is doubtless true that the total annual precipitation is the chief factor in determining
the success of dry-farming. However, the distribution of the rainfall throughout the year is
also of great importance, and should be known by the farmer. A small rainfall, coming at the
most desirable season, will have greater crop-producing power than a very much larger rainfall
poorly distributed. Moreover, the methods of tillage to be employed where most of the precipitation
comes in winter must be considerably different from those used where the bulk of the precipitation
comes in the summer. The successful dry-farmer must know the average annual precipitation,
and also the average seasonal distribution of the rainfall, over the land which he intends
to dry-farm before he can safely choose his cultural methods.

With reference to the monthly distribution of the precipitation over the dry-farm territory
of the United States, Henry of the United States Weather Bureau recognizes five distinct types;
namely: (1) Pacific, (2) Sub-Pacific, (3) Arizona, (4) the Northern Rocky Mountain and Eastern
Foothills, and (5) the Plains Type:--

"The Pacific Type.--This type is found in all of the territory west of the Cascade and Sierra
Nevada ranges, and also obtains in a fringe of country to the eastward of the mountain summits.
The distinguishing characteristic of the Pacific type is a wet season, extending from October
to March, and a practically rainless summer, except in northern California and parts of Oregon
and Washington. About half of the yearly precipitation comes in the months of December, January,
and February, the remaining half being distributed throughout the seven months--September,
October, November, March, April, May, and June."

"Sub-Pacific Type.--The term 'Sub-Pacific' has been given to that type of rainfall which obtains
over eastern Washington, Nevada, and Utah. The influences that control the precipitation of
this region are much similar to those that prevail west of the Sierra Nevada and Cascade ranges.
There is not, however, as in the eastern type, a steady diminution in the precipitation with
the approach of spring, but rather a culmination in the precipitation."

"Arizona Type.--The Arizona Type, so called because it is more fully developed in that territory
than elsewhere, prevails over Arizona, New Mexico, and a small portion of eastern Utah and
Nevada. This type differs from all others in the fact that about 35 per cent of the rain falls
in July and August. May and June are generally the months of least rainfall."

"The Northern Rocky Mountain and Eastern Foothills Type.--This type is closely allied to that
of the plains to the eastward, and the bulk of the rain falls in the foothills of the region
in April and May; in Montana, in May and June."

"The Plains Type.--This type embraces the greater part of the Dakotas, Nebraska, Kansas; Oklahoma,
the Panhandle of Texas, and all the great corn and wheat states of the interior valleys. This
region is characterized by a scant winter precipitation over the northern states and moderately
heavy rains during the growing season. The. bulk of the rains comes in May, June, and July."

This classification emphasizes the great variation in distribution of rainfall over the dry-farm
territory of the country. West of the Rocky Mountains the precipitation comes chiefly in winter
and spring, leaving the summers rainless; while east of the Rockies, the winters are somewhat
rainless and the precipitation comes chiefly in spring and summer. The Arizona type stands
midway between these types. This variation in the distribution of the rainfall requires that
different methods be employed in storing and conserving the rainfall for crop production. The
adaptation of cultural methods to the seasonal distribution of rainfall will be discussed hereafter.

Snowfall

Closely related to the distribution of the rainfall and the average annual temperature is the
snowfall. Wherever a relatively large winter precipitation occurs, the dry-farmer is benefited
if it comes in the form of snow. The fall-planted seeds are better protected by the snow; the
evaporation is lower and it appears that the soil is improved by the annual covering of snow.
In any case, the methods of culture are in a measure dependent upon the amount of snowfall
and the length of time that it lies upon the ground.

Snow falls over most of the dry-farm territory, excepting the lowlands of California, the immediate
Pacific coast, and other districts where the average annual temperature is high. The heaviest
snowfall is in the intermountain district, from the west slope of the Sierra Nevadas to the
east slope of the Rockies. The degree of snowfall on the agricultural lands is very variable
and dependent upon local conditions. Snow falls upon all the high mountain ranges.

Temperature

