A COURSE IN WOOD TURNING

By ARCHIE S. MILTON

OTTO K. WOHLERS

THE BRUCE PUBLISHING COMPANY

MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN

Copyright 1919

Archie S. Milton

Otto K. Wohlers

PREFACE

This book is the outgrowth of problems given to high school pupils by the writers, and has
been compiled in logical sequence. Stress is laid upon the proper use of tools, and the problems
are presented in such a way that each exercise, or project, depends somewhat on the one preceding.
It is not the idea of the writers that all problems shown should be made, but that the instructor
select only such as will give the pupils enough preliminary work in the use of the tools to
prepare them for other models following.

The related matter on the care of the lathe and tools, the grinding of chisels, the polishing
of projects, and the specific directions and cautions for working out the various exercises
and projects with the drawings, make the book not only valuable for reference, but also as
a class text to be studied in connection with the making of projects. The drawings show exact
dimensions and are tabulated in the upper right-hand corner in such a way that they may be
used in a filing case if desired. At least two designs are shown for each model, and these
may be used as suggestions from which students, with the aid of the instructor, may work out
their own designs.

The book has been divided into two parts: (A) Spindle Turning, and (B) Face-Plate Turning.
The same order is followed in each part; the related information is supplied where required
as the pupil progresses.

Part A takes up the following: (I) Exercises; (II) Models, involving the same tool processes,
only in a somewhat different degree; (III) Oval Turning, explaining the use of two centers;
(IV) Duplicate Turning, where identical pieces are turned.

Part B is arranged as follows: (I) Exercises; (II) Models, which are an application of cuts
in exercises that involve only face-plate work; (III) Models, which require chucking; (IV)
Assembling Exercises, involving spindle turning, face-plate work and chucking; (V) Spiral Turning,
showing the method of turning a spiral on the lathe.

The ultimate aim of this book is to give, through the exercises and problems, a thorough understanding
of the principles of wood turning by gradually developing the confidence of the pupil in the
complete control of his tools, at the same time suggesting harmonious lines in design which
will lead to other ideas in designing problems.

TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                 Pages
CHAPTER I.
  Introductory
    --Commercial and Educational Values of Wood Turning
    --Elements of Success                                         9-10

CHAPTER II.
  The Lathe
    --Care of the Lathe
    --Speed of the Lathe
    --Method of Figuring the Diameter of Pulleys
    --Rules for Finding the Speeds and Sizes of Pulleys
    --Points on Setting Up the Lathe and Shafting                11-14

CHAPTER III.
  Wood Turning Tools
    --Grinding and Whetting Turning Tools
    --The Gouge
    --The Parting Tool
    --Scraping Tools                                             15-18

CHAPTER IV.
  Spindle Turning
    --Centering Stock
    --Clamping Stock in the Lathe
    --Adjusting the Tool Rest
    --Position of the Operator at the Lathe
    --Holding the Tools
    --Use of the Tools in Spindle Turning                        19-21

CHAPTER V.
  Tool Processes in Spindle Turning
    --The Roughing Cut
    --The Sizing Cut
    --The Smoothing Cut
    --Testing for Smoothness
    --Measuring for Length
    --Squaring Ends
    --Cutting Off
    --Shoulder Cuts
    --Taper Cuts
    --V Cuts-Concave Cuts
    --Convex Cuts
    --Combination Cuts
    --Chisel Handles
    --Mallets and Handles
    --Vise Handles                                               22-32

CHAPTER VI.
  Oval Turning
    --Tool Operations                                            33-34

CHAPTER VII.
  Duplicate Turning
    --Use of Measuring Stick
    --Use of Templets                                               35

CHAPTER VIII.
  Finishing and Polishing
    --Ordinary Cabinet Finishing
    --French Polishing
    --Method of Applying French Polish                           36-38

CHAPTER IX.
  Spiral Turning
    --Single Spiral, Straight Shaft
    --Tapered Shaft
    --Double Spiral, Tapered Shaft
    --Double Spiral, Straight Shaft
    --Double Groove Spiral, Straight Shaft                       49-55

PLATES--SPINDLE TURNING.
  Straight Cuts, 57
  Shoulder Cuts, 59-65
  Taper Cuts, 67-77
  V Cuts, 79-81
  Concave Cuts, 83-87
  Convex Cuts, 89-95
  Combination Cuts, 97-101
  Chisel Handles, 103-107
  Cabinet File Handle, 109
  Scratch Awl Handle, 111
  Carving Tool Handle, 113
  Turning Chisel Handle, 115
  Mallets, 117-119
  Gavels, 121-127
  Darning Eggs, 129-133
  Stocking Darner, 131
  Potato Masher, 135
  Rolling Pins, 139-141
  Vise Handle, 143
  Screw Driver Handles, 145-147
  Pene Hammer Handle, 149
  Claw Hammer Handle, 151
  Indian Clubs, 153-155
  Dumb Bells, 157-159
  Ten Pins, 161

PLATES--CHUCK TURNING.
  Straight Cuts, 167-169
  Shoulder Cuts, 171-173
  Taper Cuts, 175-177
  V Cuts, 179-181
  Concave Cuts, 183-185
  Convex Cuts, 187-189
  Combination Cuts, 191-195
  Match Boxes, 197-201
  Pin Trays, 203-205
  Hair Pin Receivers, 207-209
  Hat Pin Receivers, 211-213
  Ornamental Vases, 215-219
  Spinnet, 221
  Towel Rings, 223-227
  Card Trays, 229-235
  Picture Frames, 237-243
  Nut Bowls, 245-251
  Napkin Rings, 253-257
  Jewel Boxes, 259-273
  Collar Boxes, 275-279
  Sphere, 281
  Checker Men, 283
  Candle Sticks, 285-293
  Shaving Stands, 295-301
  Reading Lamp Stands, 303-307
  Pedestal, 309
  Smokers' Stands, 311-313
  Pin Cushion and Spoon Holder, 315
  Chess Men, 317-319
  Pedestals, 321-325
  Electric Reading Lamps, 327-335
  Magazine Holders, 337-339

CLASSIFICATION OF PLATES

  A. SPINDLE TURNING

      I. Exercises
         1. Straight Cuts, a
         2. Shoulder Cuts, a-b-c-d
         3. Taper Cuts, a-b-c-d-e-f
         4. V Cuts, a-b
         5. Concave Cuts, a-b-c
         6. Convex Cuts, a-b-c-d
         7. Combination Cuts, a-b-c
     II. Models
         1. Chisel Handles, a-b-c-d-e-f-g
         2. Mallets, a-b
         3. Gavels, a-b-c-d
         4. Stocking Darners, a-b-c
         5. Potato Mashers, a-b
         6. Rolling Pins, a-b
         7. Vise Handles, a
    III. Oval Turning
         1. Screw-driver Handles, a-b
         2. Hammer Handles, a-b
     IV. Duplicate Turning
         1. Indian Clubs, a-b
         2. Dumb-bells, a-b
         3. Tenpins, a
         4. Face-Plate Models
         1. Match Boxes, a-b-c
         2. Pin Trays, a-b
         3. Hair Pin Receivers, a-b
         4. Hat Pin Receivers, a-b
         5. Ornamental Vases, a-b-c
         6. Spinnet, (game) a
    III. Chuck Models
         1. Towel Rings, a-b-c
         2. Card Trays, a-b-c-d
         3. Picture Frames, a-b-c-d
         4. Nut Bowels, a-b-c-d
         5. Napkin Rings, a-b-c
         6. Jewel Boxes, a-b-c-d-e-f-g-h
         7. Collar Boxes, a-b-c
         8. Spheres, a
         9. Checker Men, a
     IV. Assembling Exercises
         1. Candle Sticks, a-b-c-d-e
         2. Shaving Stands, a-a´-b-b´
         3. Reading Lamp Stands, a-b-c
         4. Pedestals, a
         5. Smoking Stands, a-b
         6. Pin Cushions and Spool Holder, a
         7. Chess Men, a-a´
      V. Spiral Turning
         1. Pedestal, (Single) a-a´, (Double) b
         2. Reading Lamps, (Single) a-a´-a´´ (Double) b-b´
         3. Magazine Holder, a-a´

CHAPTER I

INTRODUCTORY

Wood turning has had a definite place in the commercial world for a great many years. It is
used in various forms in making furniture and furniture parts, building trim, tool parts, toys,
athletic paraphernalia and many other useful and beautiful articles in common use.

When properly taught in the schools it is one of the most valuable types of instruction. It
appeals to pupils more than any other type of manual work, as it embodies both the play and
work elements. It is very interesting and fascinating and, in the hands of a skilled instructor,
is readily correlated with other work.

Wood turning gives a pupil preliminary experience necessary in pattern making and machine shop
work. It brings into play the scientific element by demonstrating the laws governing revolving
bodies. In bringing the chisel into contact with the revolving surface, the mathematical principle
of the "point of tangency" is illustrated. Excellent tool technique is developed in wood turning
as on the exactness of every movement depends the success of the operator, and any slight variation
will spoil a piece of work. This brings in a very close correlation of the mental and motor
activities and also gives the student an opportunity for observing and thinking while at work.
When his tool makes a "run" he must determine the reason and figure out why a certain result
is obtained when the chisel is held in a given position. Certain cuts must be fully mastered,
and it takes a good deal of experience and absolute confidence in one's self in manipulating
the tools before it is possible to attempt skilful work. If scraping is allowed the educational
value of the work is lost.

In wood turning a vast field for design and modeling is opened, and art and architecture can
be correlated. The pupil will see for himself the need of variety in curves and must use his
judgment in determining curves that are so harmonious and pleasing that they will blend together.
If properly taught the beauty in the orders of architecture can be brought out in the making
of the bead, fillet, scotia, cove, etc.

A feeling of importance is excited in a boy when he sees his hands shaping materials into objects
of pleasing form. Wood turning properly taught awakens the aesthetic sense and creates a desire
for the beautiful. The boy or man who has learned to make graceful curves and clean-cut fillets
and beads will never be satisfied with clumsy effects which are characteristic in cheap commercial
work, made only to sell.

Success in turning depends on the following:

  1. Care of lathe, tools, selection of materials.
  2. Study of the scientific elements of--
        a. Revolving bodies.
        b. Points of tangency.
        c. Study of results by reasoning and observing.
  3. Development of technique and exactness.
  4. Correlation of mental and motor activities.

CHAPTER II

THE LATHE

The sizes of turning lathes are given as 10", 12", etc. These figures denote the diameter,
or size, of the largest piece of work that can be turned on them. The measurement is taken
from the center point of the live center to the bed of the lathe (usually 5" or 6") and is
one-half the diameter of the entire circle. The length of a lathe is determined by the length
of a piece of work that can be turned. This measurement is taken from the points of the live
and dead centers when the tail stock is drawn back the full extent of the lathe bed. Fig. 1
shows a turning lathe with sixteen principal parts named. The student should learn the names
of these parts and familiarize himself with the particular function of each.

CARE OF THE LATHE

The lathe should be oiled every day before starting. At the end of the period the lathe should
be brushed clean of all chips and shavings, after which it should be rubbed off with a piece
of waste or cloth to remove all surplus oil. All tools should be wiped clean and put in their
proper places. If a student finds that his lathe is not running as it should, he should first
call the attention of the instructor to that fact before attempting to adjust it; and then
only such adjustments should be made as the instructor directs.

SPEED OF THE LATHE

The speed of the lathe should range from 2400 to 3000 revolutions per minute when the belt
is on the smallest step of the cone pulley. At this speed stock up to 3" in diameter can be
turned with safety. Stock from 3" to 6" in diameter should be turned on the second or third
step, and all stock over 6" on the last step. The speed at which a lathe should run depends
entirely upon the nature of the work to be done and the kind of material used. Pieces that
cannot be centered accurately and all glued-up work with rough corners should be run slowly
until all corners are taken off and the stock runs true. At high speed the centrificial force
on such pieces is very great, causing the lathe to vibrate, and there is a possibility of the
piece being thrown from the lathe thus endangering the worker as well as those around him.
After the stock is running true the speed may be increased.

TO FIGURE THE DIAMETER OF PULLEYS

Suppose a motor runs 1500 R.P.M. and is fitted with a 4" pulley. Suppose also, a main shaft
should run 300 R.P.M.

  Then, 1500 : 300 :: x : 4;
    Or, 300x = 6000,
      x = 20, or the diameter of the large pulley on the main shaft.

Suppose again that a line shaft runs 300 R.P.M., and a counter shaft 600 R.P.M. The counter
shaft has a pulley 4" in diameter. The pulley on the line shaft must then have a diameter of 8".

  300 : 600 :: 4 : x;
    Or, 300x = 2400,
      x = 8"

Suppose the cone pulley on the counter shaft runs 600 R.P.M.; a lathe spindle runs 2200 R.P.M.,
when connected with the small cone pulley which has a diameter of 3". The large cone pulley
has then a diameter of 11".

  600 : 2200 :: 3 : x
    Or, 600x = 6600;
      x = 11"

RULES FOR FINDING THE SPEEDS AND SIZES OF PULLEYS

1. To find the diameter of the driving pulley:

Multiply the diameter of the driven by the number of revolutions it should make and divide
the product by the number of revolutions of the driver. (20 x 300 = 6000; 6000 ÷ 1500 = 4"--diameter
of motor pulley.)

2. To find the diameter of the driven pulley:

Multiply the diameter of the driver by its number of revolutions and divide the product by
the number of revolutions of the driven. (4 x 1500 = 6000; 6000 ÷ 300 = 20"--diameter of the
driven pulley.)

3. (4 x 1500 = 6000; 6000 ÷ 20 = 300--revolutions of driven pulley.)

POINTS ON SETTING UP LATHE AND SHAFTING

The counter shaft should be about 7' above the lathe. A distance of 6' from the center of the
shaft to the center of the spindle is sufficient. In setting a lathe or hanging a counter shaft
it is necessary that both be level. The counter shaft must be parallel to the line shaft. When
the counter shaft is in position a plumb bob should be hung from the counter shaft cone to
the spindle cone; the lathe should be adjusted so that the belt will track between the two
cone pulleys. The axis of the lathe must be parallel to that of the counter shaft. The lathe,
however, need not be directly beneath the counter shaft as the belt will run on an angle as
well as perpendicular.

CHAPTER III

WOOD TURNING TOOLS

A wood turning kit should consist of one each of the following tools. Fig. 2 shows the general
shape of these tools.

   1-1/4" Gouge
     3/4" Gouge
     1/2" Gouge
     1/4" Gouge
   1-1/4" Skew
     3/4" Skew
     1/2" Skew
     1/4" Skew
     1/8" Parting Tool
     1/2" Round Nose
     1/4" Round Nose
     1/2" Square Nose
     1/4" Square Nose
     1/2" Spear Point
     1/2" Right Skew
     1/2" Left Skew
          Slip Stone with round edges
       6" Outside Calipers
       6" Inside Calipers
       8" Dividers
      12" Rule
  1/2 pt. Oil Can
          Bench Brush

GRINDING AND WHETTING TURNING TOOLS

Skew Chisel

The skew chisel is sharpened equally on both sides On this tool the cutting edge should form
an angle of about 20° with one of the edges. The skew is used in cutting both to the right
and to the left, and therefore, must be beveled on both sides. The length of the bevel should
equal about twice the thickness of the chisel at the point where it is sharpened. In grinding
the bevel, the chisel must be held so that the cutting edge will be parallel to the axis of
the emery wheel. The wheel should be about 6" in diameter as this will leave the bevel slightly
hollow ground. Cool the chisel in water occasionally when using a dry emery. Otherwise the
wheel will burn the chisel, taking out the temper; the metal will be soft and the edge will
not stand up. Care should be exercised that the same bevel is kept so that it will be uniformly
hollow ground. The rough edge left by the emery wheel should be whetted off with a slip stone
by holding the chisel on the flat side of the stone so that the toe and heel of the bevel are
equally in contact with it. Rub first on one side and then on the other. The wire edge is thus
worn off quickly as there is no metal to be worn away in the middle of the bevels. The chisel
is sharp when the edge, which may be tested by drawing it over the thumb nail, is smooth and
will take hold evenly along its entire length. If any wire edge remains it should be whetted again.

Gouge

The gouge used in wood turning is beveled on the outside and is ground so that the nose is
approximately semi-circular in shape. The tool is a combination of the round nose chisel and
the ordinary gouge. The bevel should extend well around to the ends so that the cutting edge
extends to each side. This is necessary to avoid the abrupt corners which would be present
if the nose were left straight across as in the ordinary wood-working gouge. In making shearing
cuts the round nose permits the tool to be rolled to the side to avoid scraping the work. The
length of the bevel should be about twice the thickness of the blade at the point where the
sharpening begins.

The sharpening of a gouge for turning is rather difficult for the average student. The ordinary
gouge which has a square nose may be beveled by merely turning it half way around and back
again. In working out the round nose of a gouge for wood turning, it is necessary that the
handle be swung from one side to the other while, at the same time, the chisel is revolved
to cut the bevel evenly. It is sometimes necessary to allow some pupils to use the side of
the emery wheel in sharpening the gouge. This kind of grinding, however, does not leave the
tool hollow ground as when the face of the wheel is used.

To complete the sharpening the rough edge is worked smooth on a slip stone, the cross section
of which is wedge-shaped and the edges of which are rounded. The toe and heel of the beveled
side of the gouge are brought into contact with the flat side of the stone. As the sharpening
proceeds the wire edge is worked to the inside of the gouge. The rounded edge of the stone
is then placed inside the gouge and is worked back and forth until the rough edge disappears.
Great care must be taken not to bevel the inside of the gouge when whetting with the round
edges of the stone, as the result will be the same as with an ordinary chisel or plane bit.

Parting Tool

The parting tool is sharpened on both sides. This tool differs from the ordinary chisel in
that it is between 5/8" and 3/4" thick and only about 1/8" wide at the widest point, which
is in the center of its entire length. The bevels must meet exactly at the center, or the widest
point, and should make an angle of about 50° with each other. If the bevels do not meet at
the widest point the tool will not clear, and the sides will rub against the revolving stock;
the tool will be burned and will thus lose its temper. The bevel should be hollow ground slightly
as then comparatively little metal need be removed when whetting.

Scraping Tools

The round nose, square nose, spear point, right skew and left skew are scraping tools, used
chiefly in pattern work and sometimes in face-plate work. They are sharpened on one side only,
and the bevel is about twice the thickness of the chisel at the point where sharpened. These
tools should be slightly hollow ground to facilitate the whetting. Scraping tools become dull
quite easily as their edges are in contact with the wood almost at right angles. After sharpening,
the edges of these tools may be turned with a burnisher or the broad side of a skew chisel
in the same manner that the edge of a cabinet scraper is turned though not nearly to so great
a degree. This will help to keep the tool sharp for, as the edge wears off, the tool sharpens
itself to a certain extent. The chisel is of harder material than a cabinet scraper so that
it will not stand a great amount of turning over on the edge. Small pieces will be broken out,
unless a flat surface is rubbed against the edge at a more acute angle than was used in the
whetting. If a narrow burnisher is used, pieces are more likely to be broken out from the sharp
edge and thus make the tool useless.

CHAPTER IV

SPINDLE TURNING

Spindle turning is the term applied to all work done on a lathe in which the stock to be worked
upon is held firmly between the live and dead centers. There are two methods in common use
in wood turning: first, the scraping or pattern-makers' method; and second, the cutting method.
Each has its advantages and disadvantages, but it is necessary that both be learned in order
to develop a well rounded turner. Care should be exercised, however, that each method be used
in its proper place. The first is slower, harder on the cutting edge of tools, and less skill
is required to obtain accurate work; the second is faster, easier on the cutting edge of tools,
and the accuracy of results obtained depends upon the skill acquired. As skill is the one thing
most sought for in high school work, the use of the cutting method is advocated entirely for
all spindle turning and, with but few exceptions, for face-plate and chuck turning.

TO CENTER STOCK

If the wood to be turned is square or rectangular in shape the best way to locate the center
is to draw diagonals across the end of the stock. The point of intersection locates the center.

CLAMPING STOCK IN THE LATHE

Take the live center from the spindle and with a wooden mallet drive the spur deep into the
wood. Never drive the wood onto the live center while in the spindle because serious injury
may be done the machine by such practice. When extremely hard wood is being used, it is a good
practice to make saw cuts along the diagonal lines and bore a hole at the intersection, thus
allowing the spur to enter the wood more freely. Oil the other end of the wood while holding
it in a vertical position, and give the oil a chance to penetrate into the wood. Then replace
the live center by taking the stock and center and forcing it into the spindle by a sudden
push of the hand. The tail stock is then moved about 1/2" to 1" from the end of the piece to
be turned, having the tail spindle well back in the tail stock. The tail stock is then clamped
to the lathe bed. Turn the tail stock hand wheel until the wood is held firmly. Work the cone
pulley by hand at the same time, so that the cup or dead center will be forced deeply into
the wood, so deeply that the live center will not continue to turn. Now turn the dead spindle
back until the live spindle begins to turn freely and clamp the dead spindle fast.

ADJUSTING THE TOOL REST

