Those hoarse, significant words wakened like the thrill of an electric shock--wakened to an
understanding of the strength of "special interests" that were opposed to us--and wakened in
me, too, the anger of a determination to fight to a finish.  The Powers that had "fixed" our
juries, were now fixing Legislature.  They had laughed at us in the courts; they were going
to laugh at us in the Capitol!

Speaker Smith came lumbering out.  He was a heavily built man, with a big jaw.  And when he
saw me there, confronting him, his face changed from a look of displeased surprise to one of
angry contempt--lowering his head like a bull--as if he were saying to himself: "What!  That
d---- little devil!  I'll bet he heard me!"  But he did not speak.  And neither did I.  He
went off about whatever business he had in hand, and I caught up my hat and hastened to Gardener
to tell him what I had heard.

When the House met again, in committee of the whole, the Speaker, of course, was not in the
Chair, and Gardener found him in the lobby. Gardener had agreed with me to say nothing of the
telephone conversation but he threatened Smith that unless our jury bill was "reported out"
by the Judiciary Committee and allowed to come to a vote, he would oppose every House bill
in the Senate and talk the session to death.  Smith fumed and blustered, but Gardener, with
the blood in his face, out-blustered and out-fumed him.  The Speaker, later in the day, vented
some of his spleen by publicly threatening to eject me from the floor of the House as a lobbyist.
But he had to allow the bill to come up, and it was finally passed, with very little opposition--for
reasons which I was afterward to understand.

It had yet to be signed by the Speaker; and it had to be signed before the close of the session
or it could not become a law.  I heard rumours that some anti-corporation bills were going
to be "lost" by the Chief Clerk, so that they might not be signed; and I kept my eye on him.
He was a fat-faced, stupid-looking, flabby creature--by name D. H. Dickason--who did not appear
capable of doing anything very daring.  I saw the chairman of the Enrolling Committee place
our bill on Dickason's desk, among those waiting for the Speaker's signature; and--while the
House was busy--I withdrew it from the pile and placed it to one side, conspicuously, so that
I could see it from a distance.

When the time came for signing--sure enough! the Clerk was missing, and some bills were missing
with him.  The House was crowded--floor and galleries--and the whole place went into an uproar
at once.  Nobody seemed to know which bills were gone; every member who had an anti-corporation
bill thought it was his that had been stolen; and they all together broke out into denunciations
of the Speaker, the Clerk, and everybody else whom they thought concerned in the outrage. 
One man jumped up on his chair and tried to dominate the pandemonium, shouting and waving his
hands.  The galleries went wild with noisy excitement. Men threatened each other with violence
on the floor of the House, cursing and shaking their fists.  Others rushed here and there trying
to find some trace of the Clerk.  The Speaker, breathless from calling for order and pounding
with his gavel, had to sit down and let them rage.

At last, from my place by the wall, on the outskirts of the hubbub, I saw the Clerk dragged
down the aisle by the collar, bleeding, with a blackened eye, apparently half drunk and evidently
frightened into an abject terror.  He had stolen a bill introduced by Senator Bucklin, providing
that cities could own their own water works and gas works; but the Senator's wife had been
watching him; she had followed him to the basement and stopped him as he tried to escape to
the street; and it was the Senator now who had him by the neck.

