"Now see here, feller-citizen, if you've any idea of comin' on my beat, I jist warn ye ye'd
better git at once," and he shook his fist in Tom's face to make the reply more emphatic.

"But I have not," said Tom, anxiously. "I only want work of some sort, and a decent lodging.
I'm just from the country, and don't know a soul in this town; besides, I've hurt my hand,
and it pains a good deal."

"Let's see. I'm a crack doctor on all the fellers' cuts."

Tom unbound his hand, and the youthful Æsculapius gazed at it with great interest.

"That'll knock you up yet," was the comforting diagnosis, with a wise shake of the head. "Bad
place to git a cut. Jim Jones had one jist in that spot, and it festered, and hurt him so he
had to go to the hospital."

"Pshaw!" said Tom.

"Ye'd better get yer granny to poultice it."

"I tell you I don't know a human being in this city, and I haven't an idea where I am going
to sleep to-night."

The boy surveyed him doubtfully.

"You might go to the station-house."

"Not if I know it," said Tom, whose visions of grandeur, though dimmer, were not to be brought
down so low.

"Then there's the Newsboys' Lodging-House."

"Could I get in there? But I don't know the way."

"Come along with me; I'll show yer. I sleep there most o' the time."

This was, indeed, unforeseen good fortune, and Tom embraced it heartily. As they walked along,
Tim got out of him his whole story; and when it was finished, he said to him: "You were a big
fool to leave a good home and try your luck here. For one that swims, a hundred sinks. Why,
half the time I'm hungry, and the way we fellers gits knocked about is jist awful."

They reached the Lodging-House, and Tom, with his companion's aid, registered his name, got
his ticket, and secured a bed. He was so tired he could hardly speak, and the pain in his hand
was increasing. In the morning his friend had gone. The matron seeing his suffering dressed
his hand, and led him on to tell her who he was and what was his errand to the city. Kindly
and patiently, she pointed out to him the great wrong of his beginning, the wickedness of leaving
his aunt in ignorance of his whereabouts, the mistake of supposing that it was an easy matter
to work one's way up from obscurity to places of trust and honor; that if his endeavors were
sanctioned by those in authority over him, and kind friends were willing to assist him and
procure him occupation, he yet would find that it would only be by patient labor and constant
effort that he could maintain himself, and that larks ready cooked no longer dropped into open
mouths. All this and more came home to the sorrowful Tom with great force, for the dirt and
jargon of the city were to him very distasteful. His castles were crumbling as he wended his
way again to the docks. It was a weary time he had to find the boat which would carry him back,
and it was with a grieved spirit that he found himself again at the door of the little red
house by the hill. Grieved and weary and hungry, Aunt Maria, whose eyes were red with weeping,
perceived him to be, and with wonderful wisdom she kept down her questions, and silently made
him comfortable. Little Jane was full of curiosity, and more than one neighbor put their heads
in to have a word to say.

A year afterward, as Tom, Ned Green, and Jonas were busy husking corn in the calm stillness
of the fall, when the stacks were all about them, like Indian wigwams, and the stubble only
of the golden pumpkins was left in the field, and the beautiful river wound itself away in
the distance, bearing all kinds of craft, Tom told them about his day in the city, and said
he had concluded that the country was good enough for him, and he meant to be a farmer all
the days of his life.

A GREAT CATHEDRAL.

I remember well, when a child, hearing the Cathedral of St. Peter, in Rome, spoken of as being
so immense that I thought of an ideal cathedral little less than a mountain in size, and the
dome to be seen only as if looking at the stars. When the real cathedral was seen, of course
that exaggerated idea had then long been tempered to something like the reality. Yet it was
not without a certain pleasure to find that to get a good view, particularly of the dome, it
was necessary for me to go from it several miles--to the Pincian hill, or a terrace of the
beautiful Villa Doria-Pamfili. The latter view is one of the finest, as nothing else of all
Rome is seen. The cathedral stands on the site of Nero's Circus, where many Christians were
martyred, and where the Apostle Peter is said to have been buried after his crucifixion. In
the year 90 an oratory was built there, and in 306 Emperor Constantine erected a church. It
was the grandest of that time, and exceeded in size all existing cathedrals except two, yet
was only half the size of the present building.

This cathedral was begun in 1506, and after forty years all the foundations were not built.
Then Michael Angelo, though seventy-two years old, was persuaded to be the architect. His predecessor
had wasted four years in making a model of the proposed edifice, at a great cost, but he, with
marvellous energy, completed his model in a fortnight. Though the work went rapidly on, he
knew he could not live to see his cathedral finished, and he patiently made a wooden model
of the great dome of exact proportions. From this model his idea was carried out. Twenty popes
came and went, pressing the work to completion; eighteen architects planned and replanned,
and expended $100,000,000, brought from the four quarters of the globe; and a hundred and fifty
years rolled around before St. Peter's was finished. Sixtus V. employed six hundred men, night
and day, ceaselessly at work upon the dome.

The cathedral was consecrated on the 18th of November, 1626, the thirteen-hundredth anniversary
of a similar rite in the first cathedral. It covers 212,321 square feet of ground, nearly twice
the area of the next largest cathedral, that of Milan, which is a little larger than St. Paul's,
of London. Its length is about equal to two ordinary city blocks, its width to that of a short
block, and its total height that of a long block, or a little less than the height of the Great
Pyramid of Egypt. The circumference of the base of the dome is such that two hundred ten-year-old
boys and girls clasped hand to hand would just about stretch around it. The dome rests upon
four buttresses, each seventy feet thick, and above them runs a frieze carved in letters as
high as a man. Then, one above another, are four galleries, from the lower one of which a fine
view of the inside of the church can be had.

The little black things seen crawling on the pavement away down below are grown men and women.
The whole inside of the dome is of mosaic-work, and set in this are mosaics of the evangelists--colossal
figures, you may know, as the pen which St. Luke holds is seven feet long.

The roof of the cathedral is reached by means of an easy slope, up which one could ride on
a donkey. Emerging on the roof, all Rome is seen, the country from the mountains, and the blue
Mediterranean Sea in the distance. The roof holds a number of small domes, and dwellings for
the workmen and custodians, who live there with their families. But stranger still is a fountain
fed from the rain caught upon the roof. There we would be as high as the top of many church
steeples, but away above us, like a whole mountain, would rise the dome, with a little copper
ball on the summit. If our courage and knees did not fail us, we would ascend to that ball
by staircases between the internal and external walls of the dome, and find it large enough
to hold a score of persons.

So vast is the cathedral's interior that it has an atmosphere of its own--in winter slowly
losing the heat of the preceding summer, and in summer slowly warming up for another winter.
In cold weather the poor of Rome go there for comfort, as a Roman winter sometimes brings frosty
days and ice. A traveller says he once saw a great sheet of ice around the fountain before
the cathedral, and some little Romans awkwardly sliding on it. For the sake of doing what he
never thought to do in Rome, he took a slide with them. The mosaic pictures, statues, and monuments
are almost numberless, and the pavement of colored marble stretches away from the doors like
a large polished field. Formerly, on Easter and June 28, the dome, façade, and the colonnades
of the cathedral were illumined in the early evening by the light of between four and five
thousand lamps. It was called the silver illumination, and is described as having been very
grand and delicate. Suddenly, on a given signal, four hundred men, stationed at their posts,
exchanged the lamps for lighted pitch in iron pans fastened to the ribs of the dome. Then the
dome shone afar as a splendid flaming crown of light.

THE LYNX.

An ugly and savage member of the great cat family is the lynx, a creature very numerous in
Canada and in the wild forests of our most northern States. It is found all over Northern Europe
as well, and in Germany and Switzerland; a smaller variety, called the swamp lynx, is also
an inhabitant of Persia, Syria, and some portions of Egypt.

The Canada lynx is a beast about three feet long, with a short stubbed tail, and might easily
be mistaken for a large wild-cat. Its fur, which is short and very thick, and of a beautiful
silver gray, is much used for muffs, tippets, and fur trimming. The lynx is a cowardly beast,
and seldom attacks anything larger than hares, squirrels, and birds. It will sometimes rob
a sheep-fold, as the gentle and pretty lambs have no means of defense against its terrible claws.

It is very much hunted for its valuable fur, and some years thousands of these beautiful skins
are sent to market. The ears are very curious, having a tuft of bristling hair on the very
point; indeed, this ear ornament is a distinguishing characteristic of all the varieties of
the lynx tribe.

The large and powerful dogs which are found in Canada and the northern portions of Michigan,
Minnesota, and other border States, where they are used as train dogs to drag the mail sledges
over vast wastes of snow during the winter, are natural enemies of the lynx, and pursue it
furiously through the snow-bound forests. Their loud barking often warns the hunter before
he himself catches sight of the game that the desired prize is treed, and awaits its fate,
with arched back and fur bristling, after the manner of an enraged cat.

The Canada lynx is a very stupid beast, and easily trapped--a method of catching it generally
adopted by the Hudson Bay Company, as in this way its beautiful fur is uninjured by bullets.

The European lynx is a much larger, stronger, and more ferocious beast than its Canadian brother.
Its great hairy paws are like those of the lion and tiger, which, strange as it may seem, are
also members of the pussy-cat family. It lives in wild Siberian forests (where large numbers
of trappers subsist on the proceeds of its valuable fur), in Norway and Sweden, in Switzerland,
and also in other countries where wild forests exist. Vast numbers roam through the steppes
of Asia and the uninhabited portions of the Eastern world.

So much is this creature dreaded in Switzerland for its depredations on the flocks that the
shepherds whose sheep feed on the mountain pastures do all in their power to exterminate this
cruel enemy of their fold, and a prize is offered by the government for every one killed.

Driven by hunger, the European lynx will often attack deer and other large animals. A story
is told of a lynx in Norway which, much against its will, was forced to take a furious ride
on the back of a goat. The winter had been very severe, and failing to find food in the forests
and rocky barrens, a young lynx spied a flock of goats feeding among the dry stubble of a field.
Giving a quick spring, it landed on the back of a large goat, with the purpose of tearing open
the arteries of its neck--its method of killing large animals. But the goat, feeling its unwelcome
rider, set out at a gallop for the farm-yard, followed by the whole herd, all bleating in concert.
The claws of the lynx had become so entangled in the heavy beard of its intended victim that
escape was impossible, and the farmer by a skillfully aimed shot put an end to its life.

Patience is largely developed in the lynx. It will lie stretched out for hours, on a branch
of a tree, watching for its prey. If anything approaches, it crouches and springs. Should the
rabbit or bird escape, the lynx never pursues, but slyly creeps back to its branch, and resumes
its patient watch.

When captured very young, lynxes may be tamed, and have been known to live on friendly terms
with domestic animals, such as dogs and cats. But they are never healthy away from their native
woods, and usually die in a short time. Even in the wild state the lynx is short-lived, and
is said rarely to reach the age of fifteen years. In confinement the lynx never thrives. Specimens
kept in menageries never become friendly, but grow sullen and suspicious. Spending the day
in sleep, at night they walk restlessly up and down their cage, giving vent to hideous howls
and yells.

The glistening, piercing eyes of the lynx were formerly the subject of strange superstitions.
In the days of Pliny it was known to the Romans by the same name it still bears. Specimens
were first brought to Rome from Gaul (the country now called France), and so terrible was the
glaring eye that it was said to be able to look through a stone wall as through glass, and
to penetrate the darkest mysteries. Hence, no doubt, the expression "lynx-eyed," which is so
often used to indicate keen and sharp watchfulness from which nothing can escape.

THE DEAD-LETTER OFFICE.

BY MRS. P. L. COLLINS.

Of course, dear readers, all of you have heard of the Dead-letter Office at Washington, and
I suppose you have the same vague idea that I had until I went there and learned better--that
it is a place where letters are sent when they fail to reach those for whom they are intended,
and are thence returned to the writers. Really, now, I believe this is what most grown-up people
think too; but in truth, it is such a wonderful place that I am sure you will be surprised
when I tell you of some of the things you may find there, and I think when you come to Washington
it will be one of the first places you will wish to visit.

Probably you have never written a great many letters, and I do not doubt that each one had
its envelope neatly addressed by your father or mother, while you stood by to see that it was
well done. I hope, too, that in due time your letters had the nice replies they deserved. You
would have been much disappointed if any of them had been "lost in the mail," as people say,
wouldn't you? You will not forget your stamp, I am sure, after I have related the following
incident:

There was once a little girl, only ten years old, who was spending six months in the city of
New York, just previous to sailing for Europe. Her heart was filled with love for her darling
grandpapa, whom she had left in New Orleans, and she wrote to him twice every week. Her letters
were in the French language; at least, the one that I saw was, and it began "Cher Grandpère
cheri." She said, "I hope that you have received the slippers I embroidered for you, and the
fifteen dollars I sent in my last letter to have them made." But, alas! the package containing
the slippers had reached the "cher grandpère cheri," while the letter and money were missing.
Then this old gentleman wrote to the Dead-letter Office, and said that it was the only one
of his granddaughter's letters he had ever failed to receive; that it could not have been misdirected;
and his carrier had been on the same route for many years, so he knew him to be honest; therefore
the money must have been mysteriously swallowed up in the D. L. O.

What was to be done? Do you imagine the Dead-letter Office shook in its shoes?

Not a bit of it. It turned to a big book, and found a number which stood opposite the little
girl's letter, and then straightway laid hands upon the letter itself, and forwarded it to
the indignant "grandpère."

Now why all this trouble and delay, and saying of naughty things to the D. L. O., without which
he might never have seen either his letter or his money? Simply this: the dear child had dropped
her letter into the box without a stamp.

You will be surprised to learn that something over four millions of letters are sent to the
Dead-letter Office every year.

There are three things that render them liable to this: first, being unclaimed by persons to
whom they are addressed; second, when some important part of the address is omitted, as James
Smith, Maryland; third, the want of postage. All sealed letters must have at least one three-cent
stamp, unless they are to be delivered from the same office in which they are mailed, when
they must have a one or a two cent stamp, according to whether the office has carriers or not.

For the second cause mentioned above about sixty-five thousand letters were sent to the Dead-letter
Office during the past year; for the third, three hundred thousand, and three thousand had
no address whatever.

When these letters reach the Dead-letter Office, they are divided into two general classes,
viz., Domestic and Foreign, the latter being returned unopened to the countries from which
they started.

The domestic letters, after being opened, are classed according to their contents. Those containing
money are called "Money Letters;" those with drafts, money-orders, deeds, notes, etc., "Minor
Letters;" and such as inclose receipts, photographs, etc., "Sub-Minors." Letters which contain
anything, even a postage-stamp, are recorded, and those with money or drafts are sent to the
postmasters where the letters were first mailed, for them to find the owners, and get a receipt.
From $35,000 to $50,000 come into the office in this way during the year; but a large proportion
is restored to the senders, and the remainder is deposited in the United States Treasury to
the credit of the Post-office Department.

When letters contain nothing of value, if possible they are returned to the writers. There
are clerks so expert in reading all kinds of writing that they can discern a plain address
where ordinary eyes could not trace a word. For instance, you could not make much of this:

A dead-letter clerk at once translates it:

  Mr. Hensson King,
  Tobacco Stick,
  Dorchester County,
  Maryland.
  In haste.

And such spelling! Would you ever imagine that Galveston could be tortured into "Calresdon,"
Connecticut into "Kanedikait," and Territory into "Teartoir"?

Recently the Postmaster-General has found it necessary to issue very strict orders about plain
addresses, and a great many people have tried to be witty at his expense. I copied this address
from a postal card:

  Alden Simmons,
  Savannah Township,
  Ashland County, State of Ohio;
  Age 29; Occupation, Lawyer;
  Politics, Republican;
  Longitude West from Troy 2°;
  Street Main
  No. 249;
  Box 1008.
  Color, White;
  Sex, Male;
  Ancestry, Domestic.
  For President 1880, U. S. Grant!

