The march of my wife's troops was a most impressive sight. Leaving Regent's Park by the Clarence
Gate, they passed down Upper Baker Street, along Marylebone Road into Edgware Road. Here the
troops divided. One detachment hastened to Queen's Road, by way of Praed Street, Craven Road,
Craven Hill, Leinster Terrace and the Bayswater Road, with the purpose of approaching Whiteley's
from the South; the other half marched direct to Westbourne Grove, along Paddington Green Road
to Bishop's Road.

Thus, according to my wife's plan, the Wenuses would be between the two wings of the army and
escape would be impossible.

Everything was done as my wife had planned. The two detachments reached their destination almost
simultaneously. My wife, with the northern wing, was encamped in Bishop's Road, Westbourne
Grove and Pickering Place. My mother, with the southern wing (my wife shrewdly kept the command
in the family), filled Queen's Road from Whiteley's to Moscow Road. My mother, who has exquisite
taste in armour, had donned a superb Cinque-Cento cuirass, a short Zouave jacket embroidered
with sequins, accordion-pleated bloomers, luminous leggings, brown Botticelli boots and one
tiger-skin spat.

Between the two hosts was the empty road before the Universal Provider's Emporium. The Wenuses
were within the building. By the time my wife's warriors were settled and had completed the
renovation of their toilets it was high noon.

My wife had never imagined that any delay would occur: she had expected to engage with the
enemy at once and have done with it, and consequently brought no provisions and no protection
from the sun, which poured down a great bulk of pitiless beams.

The absence of Wenuses and of any sound betokening their activity was disconcerting. However,
my wife thought it best to lay siege to Whiteley's rather than to enter the establishment.

The army therefore waited.

The heat became intense. My wife and her soldiers began to feel the necessity for refreshment.
My wife is accustomed to regular meals. The sun grew in strength as the time went on, and my
wife gave the order to sit at ease, which was signalled to my mother. My mother tells me that
she was never so pleased in her life.

One o'clock struck; two o'clock; three o'clock; and still no Wenuses. Faint sounds were now
audible from the crockery department, and then a hissing, which passed by degrees into a humming,
a long, loud droning noise. It resembled as nearly as anything the boiling of an urn at a tea-meeting,
and awoke in the breasts of my wife and her army an intense and unconquerable longing for tea,
which was accentuated as four o'clock was reached. Still no Wenuses. Another hour dragged wearily
on, and the craving for tea had become positively excruciating when five o'clock rang out.

At that moment, the glass doors of the crockery department were flung open, and out poured
a procession of Wenuses smiling, said my mother, with the utmost friendliness, dressed as A.B.C.
girls, and bearing trays studded with cups and saucers.

With the most seductive and ingratiating charm, a cup was handed to my wife. What to do she
did not for the moment know. "Could such a gift be guileless?" she asked herself. "No." And
yet the Wenuses looked friendly. Finally her martial spirit prevailed and my wife repulsed
the cup, adjuring the rank and file to do the same. But in vain. Every member of my wife's
wing of that fainting army greedily grasped a cup. Alas! what could they know of the deadly
Tea-Tray of the Wenuses? Nothing, absolutely nothing, such is the disgraceful neglect of science
in our schools and colleges. And so they drank and were consumed.

Meanwhile my mother, at the head of the south wing of the army, which had been entirely overlooked
by the Wenuses, stood watching the destruction of my wife's host--a figure petrified with alarm
and astonishment. One by one she watched her sisters in arms succumb to the awful Tea-Tray.

Then it was that this intrepid woman rose to her greatest height.

"Come!" she cried to her Amazons. "Come! They have no more tea left. Now is the moment ripe."

With these spirited words, my mother and her troops proceeded to charge down Queen's Road upon
the unsuspecting Wenuses.

But they had reckoned without the enemy.

The tumult of the advancing host caught the ear of the Wonderful Wisitors, and in an instant
they had extracted glittering cases of their crimson cigarettes from their pockets, and lighting
them in the strange fashion I have described elsewhere, they proceeded to puff the smoke luxuriously
into the faces of my mother and her comrades.

Alas! little did these gallant females know of the horrible properties of the Red Weed. How
could they, with our science-teaching in such a wretched state?

The smoke grew in volume and density, spread and spread, and in a few minutes the south wing
of my wife's army was as supine as the north.

How my wife and mother escaped I shall not say. I make a point of never explaining the escape
of my wife, whether from Martians or Wenuses; but that night, as Commander-in-Chief, she issued
this cataleptic despatch:

    "The Wenuses are able to paralyse all but strong-minded women
    with their deadly Tea-Tray. Also they burn a Red Weed, the
    smoke of which has smothered our troops in Westbourne Grove. No
    sooner have they despoiled Whiteley's than they will advance
    upon Jay's and Marshall and Snelgrove's. It is impossible to
    stop them. There is no safety from the Tea-Tray and the Red
    Weed but in instant flight."

That night the world was again lit by a pale pink flash of light. It was the Fifth Crinoline.

IV.

WRECKAGE.

The general stampede that ensued on the publication of my wife's despatch is no fit subject
for the pen of a coherent scientific writer. Suffice it to say, that in the space of twenty-four
hours London was practically empty, with the exception of the freaks at Barnum's, the staff
of The Undertakers' Gazette, and Mrs. Elphinstone (for that, pace Wilkie Collins, was the name
of the Woman in White), who would listen to no reasoning, but kept calling upon "George," for
that was the name of my cousin's man, who had been in the service of Lord Garrick, the Chief
Justice, who had succumbed to dipsomania in the previous invasion.

Meantime the Wenuses, flushed with their success in Westbourne Grove, had carried their devastating
course in a south-easterly direction, looting Marshall and Snelgrove's, bearing away the entire
stock of driving-gloves from Sleep's and subjecting Redfern's to the asphyxiating fumes of
the Red Weed.

It is calculated that they spent nearly two days in Jay's, trying on all the costumes in that
establishment, and a week in Peter Robinson's. During these days I never quitted Uxbridge Road
Station, for just as I was preparing to leave, my eye caught the title on the bookstall of
Grant Allen's work, The Idea of Evolution! and I could not stir from the platform until I had
skimmed it from cover to cover.

Wearily mounting the stairs, I then turned my face westward. At the corner of Royal Crescent,
just by the cabstand, I found a man lying in the roadway. His face was stained with the Red
Weed, and his language was quite unfit for the columns of Nature.

I applied a limp lettuce to his fevered brow, took his temperature with my theodolite, and
pressing a copy of Home Chat into his unresisting hand, passed on with a sigh. I think I should
have stayed with him but for the abnormal obtusity of his facial angle.

Turning up Clarendon Road, I heard the faint words of the Wenusberg music by Wagner from a
pianoforte in the second story of No. 34. I stepped quickly into a jeweller's shop across the
road, carried off eighteen immature carats from a tray on the counter, and pitched them through
the open window at the invisible pianist. The music ceased suddenly.

It was when I began to ascend Notting Hill that I first heard the hooting. It reminded me at
first of a Siren, and then of the top note of my maiden aunt, in her day a notorious soprano
vocalist. She subsequently emigrated to France, and entered a nunnery under the religious name
of Soeur Marie Jeanne. "Tul-ulla-lulla-liety," wailed the Voice in a sort of superhuman jodel,
coming, as it seemed to me, from the region of Westminster Bridge.

The persistent ululation began to get upon my nerves. I found, moreover, that I was again extremely
hungry and thirsty. It was already noon. Why was I wandering alone in this derelict city, clad
in my wife's skirt and my cook's Sunday bonnet?

Grotesque and foolish as it may seem to the scientific reader, I was entirely unable to answer
this simple conundrum. My mind reverted to my school days. I found myself declining musa. Curious
to relate, I had entirely forgotten the genitive of ego.... With infinite trouble I managed
to break into a vegetarian restaurant, and made a meal off some precocious haricot beans, a
brace of Welsh rabbits, and ten bottles of botanic beer.

Working back into Holland Park Avenue and thence keeping steadily along High Street, Notting
Hill Gate, I determined to make my way to the Marble Arch, in the hopes of finding some fresh
materials for my studies in the Stone Age.

In Bark Place, where the Ladies' Kennel Club had made their vast grand-stand, were a number
of pitiful vestiges of the Waterloo of women-kind. There was a shattered Elswick bicycle, about
sixteen yards and a half of nun's veiling, and fifty-three tortoise-shell side-combs. I gazed
on the débris with apathy mingled with contempt. My movements were languid, my plans of the
vaguest. I knew that I wished to avoid my wife, but had no clear idea how the avoiding was
to be done.

V.

BUBBLES.

From Orme Square, a lean-faced, unkempt and haggard waif, I drifted to Great Orme's Head and
back again. Senile dementia had already laid its spectral clutch upon my wizened cerebellum
when I was rescued by some kindly people, who tell me that they found me scorching down Hays
Hill on a cushion-tired ordinary. They have since told me that I was singing "My name is John
Wellington Wells, Hurrah!" and other snatches from a pre-Wenusian opera.

These generous folk, though severely harassed by their own anxieties, took me in and cared
for me. I was a lonely man and a sad one, and they bored me. In spite of my desire to give
public expression to my gratitude, they have refused to allow their names to appear in these
pages, and they consequently enjoy the proud prerogative of being the only anonymous persons
in this book. I stayed with them at the Bath Club for four days, and with tears parted from
them on the spring-board. They would have kept me for ever, but that would have interfered
with my literary plans. Besides, I had a morbid desire to gaze on the Wenuses once more.

And so I went out into the streets again, guided by the weird Voice, and viâ Grafton Street,
Albemarle Street, the Royal Arcade, Bond Street, Burlington Gardens, Vigo Street and Sackville
Street, Piccadilly, Regent Street, Pall Mall East, Cockspur Street and Whitehall, steadily
wheeled my way across Westminster Bridge.

There were few people about and their skins were all yellow. Lessing, presumably in his Laocoon,
has attributed this to the effects of sheer panic; but Carver's explanation, which attributes
the ochre-like tint to the hypodermic operation of the Mash-Glance, seems far more plausible.
For myself I abstain from casting the weight of my support in either scale, because my particular
province is speculative philosophy and not comparative dermatology.

As I passed St. Thomas's Hospital, the tullululation grew ever louder and louder. At last the
source of the sound could no longer be disguised. It proceeded without doubt from the interior
of some soap works just opposite Doulton's. The gate was open and a faint saponaceous exhalation
struck upon my dilated nostrils. I have always been peculiarly susceptible to odours, though
my particular province is not Osmetics but speculative philosophy, and I at once resolved to
enter. Leaning my bicycle against the wall of the archway, I walked in, and was immediately
confronted by the object of my long search.

There, grouped picturesquely round a quantity of large tanks, stood the Wenuses, blowing assiduously
through pellucid pipettes and simultaneously chanting in tones of unearthly gravity a strain
poignantly suggestive of baffled hopes, thwarted aspirations and impending departure. So absorbed
were they in their strange preparations, that they were entirely unconscious of my presence.
Grotesque and foolish as this may seem to the infatuated reader, it is absolutely true.

Gradually from out the troubled surface of the tanks there rose a succession of transparent
iridescent globules, steadily waxing in bulk until they had attained a diameter of about sixteen
feet. The Wenuses then desisted from their labours of inflation, and suddenly plunging into
the tanks, reappeared inside these opalescent globules. I can only repeat that speculative
philosophy, and not sapoleaginous hydro-dynamics, is my particular forte, and would refer doubtful
readers, in search of further information, to the luminous hypothesis advanced by Professor
Cleaver of Washington to account for the imbullification of the Wenuses.[1]

Never shall I forget the touching scene that now unfolded itself before my bewildered eyes.
Against a back ground of lemon-coloured sky, with the stars shedding their spiritual lustre
through the purple twilight, these gorgeous creatures, each ensphered in her beatific bubble,
floated tremulously upward on the balmy breeze. In a moment it all flashed upon me. They were
passing away from the scene of their brief triumph, and I, a lonely and dejected scientist,
saw myself doomed to expiate a moment's madness in long years of ineffectual speculation on
the probable development of Moral Ideas.

My mind reverted to my abandoned arguments, embodied in the article which lay beneath the selenite
paperweight in my study in Campden Hill Gardens. Frenzied with despair, I shot out an arm to
arrest the upward transit of the nearest Wenus, when a strange thing occurred.

"At last!" said a voice.

I was startled. It was my wife, accompanied by Mrs. Elphinstone, my cousin's man, my mother,
the widow of the landlord of the "Dog and Measles," Master Herodotus Tibbles in deep mourning,
and the Artillery-man's brother from Beauchamp's little livery stables.

I shot an appealing glance to the disappearing Wenus. She threw me a kiss. I threw her another.

My wife took a step forward, and put her hand to my ear. I fell.

[Footnote 1: Cleaver in a subsequent Memoir [Sonnenschein, London, pp. xiv., 954, 20 in. x
8-1/2, price £2 2s. net] has made out, reluctantly and against the judgment of his firm, that
the basic material of the globules, the peculiar tenacity of which was due to some toughening
ingredient imported by the Wisitors from their planet, was undoubtedly that indispensable domestic
article which is alleged to "save rubbing."]

APPENDIX A.

APPENDIX A.

My mother, whose vigilance during the Wenuses' invasion has been throughout of the greatest
assistance to me, kept copies of the various papers of importance which commented upon that
event. From them I am enabled, with my mother's consent, to supplement the allusions to contemporary
journalism in the body of my history with the following extracts:--

The Times, or, as it is better known, the Thunder Child of Printing House Square, said:

"The Duke of Curzon's statesmanlike reply in the House of Lords last night to the inflammatory
question or string of questions put by Lord Ashmead with reference to our planetary visitors
will go far to mitigate the unreasoning panic which has laid hold of a certain section of the
community. As to the methods by which it has been proposed to confront and repel the invaders,
the Duke's remark, 'that the use of dynamite violated the chivalrous instincts which were at
the root of the British Nature,' called forth loud applause. The Foreign Secretary, however,
showed that, while deprecating senseless panic, he was ready to take any reasonable steps to
allay the natural anxiety of the public, and rising later on in the evening, he announced that
a Royal Commission had been appointed, on which Lord Ashmead, Dr. Joseph Parker (of the City
Temple), and Mr. Hall Caine, representing the Isle of Man, had consented to serve, and would
be dispatched without delay to Kensington Gardens to inquire into the cause of the visit, and,
if possible, to induce the new comers to accept an invitation to tea on the Terrace. By way
of supplementing these tranquillizing assurances, we may add that we have the authority of
the best scientific experts, including Dr. Moreau, Professor Sprudelkopf of Carlsbad, and Dr.
Fountain Penn of Philadelphia, for asserting that no animate beings could survive their transference
from the atmosphere of Venus to that of our planet for more than fourteen days. It is to be
hoped, therefore, that the members of the Royal Commission may be successful in impressing
upon our aërial visitors the imperative necessity of a speedy return. In these negotiations
it is anticipated that the expressive pantomime of Dr. Parker, and Mr. Hall Caine's mastery
of the Manx dialect, will be of the greatest possible assistance."

To the Daily Telegraph Sir Edwin Arnold contributed a poem entitled "Aphrodite Anadyomené;
or, Venus at the Round Pond." My mother can remember only the last stanza, which ran as follows:

    "Though I fly to Fushiyama,
    Steeped in opalescent Karma,
    I shall ne'er forget my charmer,
    My adorable Khansamah.
    Though I fly to Tokio,
    Where the sweet chupatties blow,
    I shall ne'er forget thee, no!
    Yamagata, daimio."

A shilling testimonial to the Wenuses was also started by the same journal, in accordance with
the precedent furnished by the similar treatment of the Graces, and an animated controversy
raged in its correspondence columns with reference to mixed bathing at Margate, and its effect
on the morality of the Wenuses.

A somewhat painful impression was created by the publication of an interview with a well-known
dramatic critic in the periodical known as Great Scott's Thoughts. This eminent authority gave
it as his unhesitating opinion that the Wenuses were not fit persons to associate with actors,
actresses, or dramatic critics, and that if, as was announced, they had been engaged at Covent
Garden to lend realistic verisimilitude to the Venusberg scene in Tannhäuser, it was his firm
resolve to give up his long crusade against Ibsen, emigrate to Norway, and change his name
to that of John Gabriel Borkman. A prolonged sojourn in Poppyland, however, resulted in the
withdrawal of this dreadful threat, and, some few weeks after the extinction of the Wenuses,
his reconciliation with the dramatic profession was celebrated at a public meeting, where,
after embracing all the actor-managers in turn, he was presented by them with a magnificent
silver butter-boat, filled to the brim with melted butter ready for immediate use.

APPENDIX B.

APPENDIX B.

My mother has obtained permission from the Laureate's publishers to reprint the following stanzas
from "The Pale Pink Raid":--

    "Wrong? O of coarse it's heinous,
      But we're going, girls, you just bet!
    Do they think that the Wars of Wenus
      Can be stopped by an epithet?
    When the henpecked Earth-men pray us
      To join them at afternoon tea,
    Not rhyme nor reason can stay us
      From flying to set them free.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "When the men on that hapless planet,
      Handsome and kind and true,
    Cry out, 'Hurry up!' O hang it!
      What else can a Wenus do?
    I suppose it was rather bad form, girls,
      But really we didn't care,
    For our planet was growing too warm, girls,
      And we wanted a change of air.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Mrs. Grundy may go on snarling,
      But still, at the Judgment Day,
    The author of England's Darling
      I think won't give us away.
    We failed, but we chose to chance it,
      And as one of the beaten side,
    I'd rather have made that transit
      Than written Jameson's Ride!"

               THE END.

PRINTING OFFICE OF THE PUBLISHER