     Why is it that the Southerners, the whites who masters before the
     war, have not devided the negro vote, and uniting with those who
     were intelligent, gained control of the State so as to secure it
     an efficient government? It would seem to the ordinary political
     thinker that even three-sevenths whites could control the
     four-sevenths blacks. One thinks of the Saxon in India with the
     Hindoo, in Canada with the French, in Jamaica with the Negro, in
     Ireland, after a turbulent fashion, with the mailed hand, and
     yet his rule is now absolute. Why is it that in South Carolina it
     is otherwise? My gifted and honored colleague, Mr. Nordhoff, in
     his series of letters from the South, says it is because he has
     been corrupted by the carpet-bagger. With all deference to that
     distinguished authority, his answer is an imperfect solution.
     Surely the Negro who knows his old master, who has lived with him
     during his life, who in most cases looks with affection upon him
     and all who belong to him--surely in the new relation he will
     look to the master as a friend, and take his guidance in so
     solemn a duty as entering upon citizenship. This too because as
     we learn from all authorities, and from none more clearly than
     Mr. Nordhoff, that the master, "accepts the new relation" and has
     no purpose of renewing the war, and, so far as from wishing to
     return the negro to slavery, feels that the old system was an
     error, even from an economical point of view, and that in time
     its abolition will prove to be a blessing to the white, whatever
     it may be to the black. Why, then this being the case, has the
     carpet-bagger been able to strangle a commonwealth like South
     Carolina, and with the aid of the Negro, plunder his old master?
     The only answer that I can see is that the whites have not taken
     any pains to cultivate the blacks, who would naturally go with
     them, or the intelligent and honest Northern men who came here,
     meaning in good faith to make the South a home and to grow up
     with the Southern people. In nearly every case with scarcely an
     exception, the whites have drawn a line, just as Jefferson Davis
     drew when he embarked upon the Confederacy. They alone have a
     right here. Whoever opposes him is a "scalawag," a
     "carpet-bagger," or a "nigger." A "scalawag" if as a Southern
     born man he votes with the Republicans; a "carpet-bagger" if he
     comes from the North, no matter how he votes. This line is drawn
     with severity and with scarcely an exception. A worthy citizen of
     Charleston, who came from the North in the beginning of the war,
     from motives of philanthropy, to educate the blacks, who has
     lived in the state ever since, and holds a high reputation from
     all classes because of his integrity and ability, told me that he
     had never been asked to the home of a Southern man since he came
     into the State. "They do business with me, meet me in public
     places and show me all respect, but never open the latch key". A
     reverend and highly esteemed prelate of the Methodist Church in
     the North came here to attend a gathering of African churches. He
     was in an official position, for these churches were under the
     control of his denomination. He remained here several days
     presiding over the gathering. He was known to be an honored
     prelate, whose life was given solely to his religious duties. He
     told me that during his stay in South Carolina he had not
     received a single attention from his Southern fellow Methodists.
     The clergy had not noticed his presence nor asked him into their
     pulpit. He saw only fellow Christians who had come from the North
     or Negroes, I cannot imagine how the line can be more closely
     drawn, and now speak of what happened only a few days since.

     The Negro and His Northern Ally

     The negro, then has been thrown back upon his Northern ally.
     Every memory, every name, every anniversary of the war, is
     cherished as sacred. All the rest is an abomination. You may well
     ask: "Why should not this be so, for are not these memories dear
     to them by the blood slain brothers and children?" Truly so, and
     far be it from me to profane so holy a thought as that which
     would honor them. But I am answering the question propounded some
     time since as to how it is that the Southern whites have never
     succeeded in dividing the colored vote, so as to give the states
     a good government. They have driven the Negro away. In Georgia
     when they gained power they have practically disfranchised him.
     But for the interference of the Federal Congress they would have
     forbidden his appearance in their legislatures. I do not think
     that any frank Georgian will deny that this result was largely
     due to intimidation and force. In a State with 545,142 negroes in
     1870, to 638,926 whites, they have virtually stamped out a
     Republican party. The negro is afraid to vote, is not in many
     places allowed on the jury, is punished severely for crimes, and
     Mr. Nordhoff has told you that at least 25,000 of them have left
     the State in the last five years; and yet in Georgia they pay
     taxes on a large property. The negro in South Carolina sees what
     has been done across the line, and he knows, or naturally fears,
     that should the white man rule here the same results will follow.
     As a consequence, therefore, the negro is in the hands of the
     adventurer. He fears that his master will make him a slave, or
     reduce him to a condition akin to slavery. The result is,
     therefore, that not one of them will vote the Democratic ticket.
     I have heard of Democratic negroes, but I have seen none. I have
     spoken on this subject with Southern men in Florida, Georgia,
     North and South Carolina, and there is only one story. "I have
     negroes here," said one eminent gentleman, "who were my slaves in
     the old time. They hang around my house. They will fight for me,
     work for me and bring me their money to keep. They take my advice
     in all things, and are trustworthy and devoted. They will not
     vote for me. My coachman there will vote against me and in favor
     of the meanest Republican in the county." The negro thus far sees
     nothing in politics but his own freedom. He votes for Grant all
     the time. His political education embraces a sentiment and a
     fact. The sentiment is Lincoln, the fact is Grant. I was talking
     to a woolly headed vagabond the other day, who had learned that I
     was a Northern man, and wanted to go home with me as an
     attendant. He was a worthless, ragged, shining darky, as black as
     night, and earned his living, he told me, by dancing the juba for
     gentlemen on the sidewalk when the police were not looking.
     During the war he was a slave lad. "Did you know you were free,"
     I said, "before the war was over?" He told me that the news came
     very quickly; that they all kept "mighty shady," never pretending
     to know until "Massa Sherman came with the soldiers." But they
     knew it all the time, and there was never a night that his "old
     mammie didn't pray to Massa Lincoln." This is the thought that
     has burned deep into the negro mind. You cannot erase it. You
     cannot take it from him. He has heard the slaves' horn. He has
     worn the yoke and carried the scar into furrow and swamp. He has
     seen father and mother perhaps, taken to the block and sold into
     slavery. That memory ever lives as it would live with you and I,
     if such a career darkened our lives. So Moses may steal and
     Whipper may "administer justice," to him they mean freedom.
     Coming out of the night they find no hand to grasp but the hand
     of the adventurer. Is it any wonder then, that they follow him as
     blind men or those who see darkly?

     Better Signs

     I cannot resist the conclusion, and it grows upon me every day,
     in the South, that for much of the wrong, that has been done in
     these States the old Southerners are to blame. I say this in
     sorrow and with no harshness of feeling to them, and not without
     making allowance for a feeling which, after all, is one of human
     nature, a feeling of hatred of the men who defeated their hopes
     of empire and of contempt for the negro, who is today a senator,
     but who yesterday could have been sent to the whipping post. It
     is not easy for a planter who has not enough to eat to rejoice
     over the fact that the servant who once washed his beard is now
     his ruler of the State. But, whatever the motive of the feeling,
     the negro in South Carolina is at the feet of Moses and Whipper,
     because he was driven there. The old master has as yet made no
     sign of sympathy or friendship. I am profoundly convinced that
     if, instead of mourning over the lost cause, as in the past they
     were wont to bluster about the Yankees and slavery, these people
     had dealt wisely with the negro and generously with the Northern
     immigrant, these States, and South Carolina especially, would be
     free and powerful. I hail the Chamberlain movement in one of its
     aspects as the opening of a new era. The support which that
     officer receives from the leading journal in the State, and one
     of the leading journals in the South--The News and
     Courier--shows the awakening of a new spirit. This paper
     thoroughly Democratic, its editors gentlemen who were in the
     Confederacy through the whole war and firm in their devotion to
     the lost cause, sees that the only hope for South Carolina is
     supporting the honest, intelligent New England Governor, who says
     he is Republican from conviction and never ... a Democrat; that
     he has no sympathy for Democracy or desire to be in its councils
     ... that as Governor he means to give ... honest government. The
     news ... takes the Governor at his word and ... him on, while
     newspapers over the border in Georgia mock and deride. If
     Chamberlain succeeds he will divide the colored vote, and for the
     first time array parties upon some other dividing line than that
     laid down by Jefferson Davis when he founded his Confederacy.

     Hope for Carolina

     But whether he succeeds or not the movement which he began a year
     ago, and which is now almost national in its extent, must go on.
     There is no way for South Carolina to win a good government
     except on this basis. Here the negroes are and in a large
     majority. They cannot be driven away, they cannot be slain, they
     cannot be disfranchised. They must be asked to take part in
     government, to unite with honest men in punishing crime.
     Education makes this more and more easy, and amid all this sorrow
     and strife and tumult the work of education goes on. The negro
     pants for the primer and the speller as the hart for the water of
     the brook. I have taken pains, in some bookstore loungings, to
     inquire about this. I learned in nearly every case that the
     negroes were constant purchasers, and almost invariably of
     school-books--elementary and advanced. I am told that the negro
     is as anxious to read and write as he used to be to own a yellow
     cravat. I do not suppose this education goes far, but it is
     something. It is there I see day--there, and nowhere else. This
     old feeling must die out. These memories of the Southern
     Confederacy must be put away with the family laces and
     grandmother' samplers. Leaders like Toombs and Hill must be
     superseded. These negroes must be taught that freedom means
     responsibility, and that honesty is safety and peace. These lands
     and ports, these watercourses, these widely stretching and vast
     acres, must respond to capital and energy, the money and the
     skill of the North. Here is room in South Carolina alone for all
     of New England, and in no State could the spirit of New England
     work such marvels. But so long as the fogs of slavery and
     misgovernment and ostracism and social hatred hang over them like
     the malaria of their own rice lowlands, so long South Carolina
     will be a prostrate State, crying for sympathy and help. Let us
     trust that the time has come for the people to help themselves,
     and in doing so, raise their Commonwealth to a pinacle of
     grandeur and prosperity such as even its proud history has never
     known.

     "REPUBLICAN PRINCIPLE" AND THE INDEPENDENT REPUBLICAN MOVEMENT

     The burden of the song of the Chamberlain Ring and their organs
     is that the integrity of "the party" is of more consequence than
     honest government, and that any Republican who votes for Green
     and Delaney is a traitor to the Republican party and false to
     Republican principles. In all humility we beg leave to suggest
     that the persons who are candidates for office in the interest of
     a corrupt Ring, and the few newspapers which live and move and
     have their being by and in that Ring, are hardly the
     disinterested and unselfish counsellors that they claim to be. It
     is safer to go outside of the charmed circle, and ascertain what
     is advised by Republicans whose honesty is as great as their
     integrity, who were Republicans when Democracy was in the
     ascendant, and who are as true now to Republicanism as they were
     while slavery existed and most of the South Carolina white
     Republicans were red-hot Democrats in the South or obscure
     demagogues in the North. Their opinions are entitled to weight,
     and for that reason they are carefully excluded from the columns
     of the organs of the Chamberlain Ring. It is in our power,
     however, to lay these opinions before the public, and we mean to
     do it.

     1. The New York Times is known everywhere as a powerful
     Republican newspaper; it advocates Republican principles in
     season and out of season. This paper heartily approves of the
     Independent Republican movement, and says that, whatever may be
     the immediate result, "The final effect cannot be good." It says,
     further, that, in the organization of the Independent Republican
     movement, the colored people have made "a long step forward."

     2. The New York Evening Post, a Republican newspaper which
     circulates among the upper-ten, declares that "the political
     signs from South Carolina are favorable"; and that it has very
     gratifying assurances that "the colored voters are beginning to
     perceive that they have been used too long by unscrupulous
     politicians" (of the Chamberlain-Bowen school) "who have employed
     partisan prejudices to promote their own private fortunes." And
     The New York Tribune, an unfaltering friend of the colored
     Republicans, talks in the same strain, and gives the Independent
     Republican movement its warm approval.

     3. One of the strongest Republican newspapers in New England is
     The Springfield Republican (Mass.) which sees in the new
     movement an evidence of good faith on the part of the
     Conservatives, and of sagacity and honesty on the part of the
     Independent Republicans.

     The newspapers whose opinions we have quoted represent, in large
     part, the sentiments and opinions of the people who pushed the
     war against the South, and insisted on the abolition of slavery.
     They say, without a dissenting voice, that the Independent
     Republican movement is right and wise and just. On the other
     side, a marked man, stands C. C. Bowen, who, in printed
     handbills, speaks of Judge Green as "the Democratic candidate for
     Governor." Colored Republicans! whom will you believe, the men
     and newspapers who fought your battles when you were powerless to
     help yourselves, or the men and the newspapers whose love for you
     only began when you had office and public plunder to bestow upon
     them?

     SUNDAY MORNING, July 12, 1874

     The Warning

     If there be anything wanting to the argument we have persistently
     urged upon the Republicans of this State, it is contained in the
     following extract from an editorial in The New York Times,
     General Grant's especial organ. In speaking of what General Grant
     has said about South Carolina, the Times says: "He (General
     Grant) further added that unless a true reform was begun at once
     in South Carolina, the Republican party would this fall repudiate
     the so-called Republicans of the State. In fact, this is what the
     Republicans of the North have already done. The Triumph of Moses
     and his gang would be only the triumph of corruption, and that
     the people of this country will not stand.

     If we do not heed this warning in time, there will not be enough
     left of our organization next year to make a respectable ward
     meeting. We cannot fight the Democrats here, General Grant and
     the whole country beside. We cannot afford to commit political
     suicide, and we are not going.

     CHARLESTON, S. C., FRIDAY EVENING, OCTOBER 2, 1874

     THE FAIR PLAY MEETING

     A Grand Gathering of Republicans and Conservatives--Harmony
     Prevails and Nothing Asked but Fair Play

     The meeting last night was one of the most extraordinary
     gatherings ever held in Charleston. Upwards of four thousand of
     our citizens irrespective of party, assembled together and raised
     their voices in the interests of fair play for one and all.

     Men of culture and wealth, stood side by side, with the honest
     and industrious workingmen. Republican and Conservative, white
     men and colored men, Chamberlain men and Green men stood shoulder
     to shoulder bearing in mind the great object of the meeting and
     for the time being casting aside all thoughts of party spirit. It
     seemed to be well understood by each and every man in the vast
     assemblage that this was not the time nor place to urge the claim
     of any particular candidates, and the harmony that prevailed
     reflected the most unbounded credit on the citizens of
     Charleston.

     Let it here be distinctly understood that the objection to the
     commissioners of election does not imply an objection to either
     of them individually but it is claimed that one of them should
     at least give place to a representative of the other side. If
     Thompson and Smith are candidates for election to any office, and
     the three commissioners of election are all Thompson men, it is
     natural that the supporters of Smith should be dissatisfied, but
     by appointing one Smith man all suspicions of unfair play will be
     removed.

     Col. E. W. M. Mackey called the meeting to order from the steps
     of the City Hall at 8 o'clock and upon his motion it was
     organized with the following officers:

     President--The Hon. H. D. Lesesne.

     Vice-Presidents--Mayor C. I. Cunningham, Ex-Gov. Wm. Aiken,
     Coroner Aaron Logan, Mr. E. B. Seabrook, Mr. S. Y. Tupper,
     Alderman W. J. McKinlay, Senator S. E. Gaillard, Hon. Henry
     Gourdin, Mr. John F. Taylor, Rev. E. J. Adams, Mr. Andrew
     Simonds, Mr. H. H. DeLeon, Mr. C. O. Witte, Alderman S. B.
     Garrett, Mr. Hugh Ferguson, Mr. J. W. Reed, Alderman John A.
     Godfrey, Mr. B. Bollman, Mr. B. O'Neill, Capt. J. C. Clausen, Mr.
     Stephen Brown, Mr. W. A. Courtenay.

     Secretaries--Mr. J. A. Mushington, Mr. C. O. Trumbo, Capt. Alex
     Williams.

     Mr. Lesesne opened the meeting with a most appropriate address,
     in which he stated ... meeting, at his leisure, who shall present
     by letter or otherwise, the foregoing preamble and resolutions to
     the Governor of the State, and require of him, as necessary for
     the preservation of public peace, that he do remove the said
     commissioners of election, or a majority of them, and appoint, in
     their stead, commissioners of known integrity, intelligence and
     impartiality, who will see that in every matter pertaining to the
     election, equal and exact justice shall be done to all citizens,
     irrespective of class, color or political party; and further,
     that the said committee shall, in the event of the refusal of the
     Executive to grant this request, call a mass meeting of the
     people to take such action as will then be necessary.

     Resolved, That a committee of five be appointed by the chairman
     of this meeting, at his leisure, who shall immediately ascertain
     what protection can be secured to the voters of Charleston County
     under the United States laws relating to elections, which
     committee shall immediately report the result of their
     investigations, through the public prints, with such
     recommendations for the guidance of the citizens as they may deem
     advisable.

     After the reading of the above preamble and resolutions, Mr.
     Joseph W. Barnwell addressed the meeting, and was followed by the
     Hon. G. A. Trenholm, who spoke with much eloquence and at
     considerable length.

     Mr. Trenholm, holding the Chronicle in his hand, read therefrom
     the following extract from the third plank of the Republican
     platform: "We shall hold all men as enemies to equality of rights
     who interfere with the ballot or deny the free and lawful
     exercise of its use to any citizen, whatever may be his party
     creed."

     He called attention to the fact that these sentiments were in the
     Republican platform and were published in the Charleston
     Chronicle, the only Republican paper in this city; but, strange
     to say, this portion of his speech does not seem to have made a
     great impression on either the News and Courier reporter or the
     Sun man. For the News and Courier fails to report it, and the Sun
     does not shine upon it.

     The Hon. A. J. Ransier then took the platform, but his address
     was interrupted by an unlooked for incident.

     A number of policemen having in charge some of the men who were
     wounded in the fracas with the strikers, of which an account is
     given elsewhere in this issue, were seen marching down Meeting
     street followed by a considerable crowd. The bigger crowd seeing
     the others, and not knowing what was up, became demoralized, and
     a panic ensued followed by a general stampede.

     SPEECH OF W. A. HAYNE, OF MARION,

     On Outrages In Edgefield County S. C.

     The House, in Committee of the Whole, having under consideration
     the following message from His Excellency:

                                   STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA,
                                        Executive Chamber,
                                     Columbia, March 1, 1876.

     HON. ROBERT B. ELLIOTT, Speaker House of Representatives:

     Sir:--I have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of a copy of
     a resolution adopted by the House of Representatives and
     concurred in by the Senate, by which I am requested to report to
     this General Assembly at the earliest practicable moment all the
     facts and information in my possession in relation to outrages
     alleged to have been committed recently in Edgefield County.

     I have the honor, in reply, to say that the information received
     by me respecting the matter referred to is, in substance, that,
     on the night of the 11th of February, some twenty-five or thirty
     mounted men, in disguise, went to the house of James Perry,
     living near Ridge Spring, in the County of Edgefield; that they
     found in the house Freeman Gardner, his wife, Julia Brooks, a
     woman between seventy and eighty years of age, and Zilpha Hill, a
     young woman--all colored; that this disguised band took all four
     of the immates of the house to a point of about a mile and a
     quarter distant and then stripped and whipped them all; that
     after the whipping was over, the woman, Patsey Gardner, was
     severely and systematically burned by the application of liquid
     sealing wax or burning pitch to her back and limbs; that the
     young woman, Zilpha Hill, who was pregnant was also beaten and
     severely abused, to such an extent as to endanger her life; that
     the only pretext for this conduct was given in a remark of one of
     the disguised band about John Gaston's goods.

     This is the account given by the victims of the outrage, and the
     condition of the woman, Patsey Gardner, seems to indicate the
     truth of her statements as to the injuries inflicted upon this
     woman.

     This is the substance of the information in my hands at the
     present time.

                                   Very respectfully,
                         (Signed)  D. H. CHAMBERLAIN, Governor.

Mr. Hayne said:

     Mr. Chairman--Perhaps no member regrets this outrage more than
     I do, for in the last campaign it was my earnest desire, yea, the
     height of my ambition, to bring about not only purity in my
     party, but harmony between the two races, and therefore my
     regret. I am disappointed, almost discouraged, for it seems as
     though 'tis love's labor lost. But, sir, just so long as the
     newspapers of the country continue to exert their influence in
     this direction will our State be disgraced by these foul
     outrages. They fire up the hatred of the hot headed, indiscreet
     youths of the State by their incendiary articles, and make them
     believe that to slay and scourge all who differ from them in
     opinion are doing God and their country a service. They never
     heap the ashes of charitable oblivion upon the coals of prejudice
     and hate, but continue to replenish it with the most exciting and
     fiery appeals. The Edgefield paper makes light of this dastardly
     violence done to aged and inoffensive women by ascribing it as
     the work of "rash boys." Manly pastime for these brave boys! a
     crime sir, that in any other State, and done to any other class,
     would have demanded and met with immediate punishment, perhaps in
     the Court of Judge Lynch, as was the case in Marlboro County a
     few weeks ago, when a white lady was abused, the perpetrators,
     two colored men, met with immediate punishment. They would not
     have brooked the law's delay. Yea, sir, an outraged community
     would have taught these "rash boys" a lesson that I fear they
     will learn in no other school, and the courteous Sheriff would
     not have been put to the trouble of "inviting them to be
     arrested."

     But, Mr. Chairman, it happens to be the poor despised Africans
     who have tilled their fields for centuries, educated and amassed
     for them princely fortunes, and while they were engaged in
     riveting tighter the chains of bondage, were engaged in the care
     and protection of their defenceless families. Mr. Chairman, I
     ask, is this the mode to bring about harmony and prosperity? Will
     this tranquilize this already distracted country? No, sir. On the
     contrary, it will raise to its highest temperature the ill
     feelings of an outraged people, and cause them to adopt for their
     redress lex talionis, in opposition to the Edgefield lex
     loci, as Mr. McDuffe truthfully says, "God has planted in the
     breast of man a higher and holier principle than that by which he
     is prompted to resist oppression; the vilest reptile that crawls
     on the earth, without the gift of reason to comprehend the
     injustice of its injuries, would bite, or sting, or bruise the
     hand by which they were inflicted. Is it to be expected, then,
     that freemen will patiently bow down and kiss the rod of the
     oppressors?" I had hoped that the swift retribution that followed
     the K. K's reign, and the withering rebuke administered by their
     own counsel, (Hon. Reverdy Johnson,) would have put an end to
     these inhuman and disgusting outrages; but, sir, the newspapers
     must live and thrive, and this can only be done by a healthy
     subscription list, and, in order to swell that list, they must
     excite the worst passions of depraved men and pander to their
     prejudices.

     Are the disgraceful scenes that darkened the history of South
     Carolina and cast a foul blot upon her proud escutcheon to be
     re-enacted? It must not. If we expect to enjoy peace and
     prosperity in our State, we must be more mindful of the rights of
     each other, more tolerant in our political views, and finally,
     leave the punishment of violators of the law to Courts of
     Justice, and not constitute ourselves a Vigilance Committee for
     every imaginary wrong. The Courts are certainly doing their duty,
     as our increased appropriation for the penitentiary will evince.
     If this course of action is followed, then, and not until then,
     will South Carolina blossom as the rose, and peace and prosperity
     flow as a river within her borders.

     Again, Mr. Chairman, if the people of that and any other County
     would only turn away from the siren voice of selfish
     office-seekers, and put in office men who would dare to do their
     duty at all times and in all places, without fear, favor or
     impartiality, then, sir, would their rights be secured, and they
     would sit down under their own vine and fig-tree, with none
     daring to molest or make afraid; then would these lawless men
     respect the rights of the occupants of the humblest cabin; for
     the law properly administered would indeed be a terror to these
     evil doers, and wherever that aegis of America's honor, and her
     citizen's protection floats, men would fear to disregard the
     rights of his fellows or take the law into their own hands; and,
     my fellow-citizens, let me entreat you, in the exercise of your
     rights as citizens hereafter, select only such men as are worthy
     of these high offices--men who will do their duty. When I have
     given such advice hitherto you have scorned it, but take heed in
     future, for your interests, the security of your rights, make it
     an imperative duty on you.

     Mr. Chairman, if departed spirits are visitants of this earth,
     and familiar with the actions of men, the spirits of the
     patriotic Rutledge and of the sainted Gasden must have wept tears
     of anguish over the degeneracy of these men bearing their
     patronymics as they witnessed the outrages (the details of which
     are heart sickening) which were perpetrated upon those
     inoffensive women. Has the chivalry of South Carolina degenerated
     thus far? Is this the work of her brave sons? Could they find no
     more worthy foe than an aged, infirm woman, brutally maltreated
     and her person exposed, who, even if guilty, should have excited
     their sympathy? Another, in a condition that would have appealed
     not in vain to the protection of savages, much less civilized
     men, cruelly beaten, and her life and that of her unborn child
     endangered thereby. Shame on you, degenerate sons of a brave and
     chivalrous ancestry! The recording angel in heaven's chancery
     must have shed tears as, with his diamond pen, he noted this
     additional evidence of man's depravity. I am no advocate of the
     "bloody shirt" doctrine, neither do I endorse the rash
     sentiments expressed by the member from Charleston, (Mr. Davis);
     but inasmuch as His Excellency has furnished this House with
     official information of this outrage, I have felt it my duty as a
     representative to express in positive, forcible terms my utter
     abhorrence and condemnation of this brutal outrage. The Governor
     has faithfully performed his duty in furthering the arrest of the
     guilty parties, and I hope the Court of justice will administer a
     lesson that will not soon be forgotten by that community. The
     laws are adequate; we simply require efficient and faithful
     officers to execute them; and as a legislative body we have done
     our duty in condemning this outrage, the punishment of which we
     leave to another tribunal--the Nemesis of justice.

     THE HIPPODROME

     SECOND DAYS EXHIBITION!

     They go for a Reporter And Catch a Tartar!

     Large Attendance but Poor Performance.

     The exhibition at this place of amusement yesterday was of only
     an indifferent character. Unless the managers improve the show in
     some way, it will hardly draw for many more performances. True,
     the tricks of the acrobats are worthy of mention; the riding
     passable, and the performance of the numerous ring-masters
     tolerably creditable; but the "dagger pitchers" and
     "revolver-swallowers," and inferior parts assigned to the clowns
     in the ring, were altogether too limited to please the
     amusement-loving public. There must be more robber declarations
     and full-blooded excited performances anxious for bloody fames,
     or the thing will be a failure. This pretense of fight won't do;
     there must be a regular shooting and dying for principle, or we
     shall pronounce your cheap show a humbug; and some of you at
     least know that no third rate "Punch and Judy" exhibition will be
     tolerated by the party in power in South Carolina. With this
     warning and introduction, we proceed to give an account of the
     performance.

     The mob was called to order precisely at 1 o'clock, temporary
     President Swails in the chair. The proceedings of the previous
     day were read from The Union-Herald in his hand, and called the
     attention of the assemblage to an article in that paper touching
     upon the subject of the raising of a chair by some member for the
     purpose of annihilating the present Governor of South Carolina.
     Smalls succeeded in raising a turbulent discussion about nothing,
     and a general discussion of the subject by the windy members of
     the convention, for some two hours, in which many of the "end
     men" took part.

     The more intelligent members of the hippodrome took no part in
     the discussion, with the exception of the Governor, who, in a
     very dignified manner, informed them that he had feared no bodily
     harm from any of them; that he had witnessed such scenes before,
     and was quietly engaged in preparation for any trap that might be
     sprung upon the decent members of the convention, after the riot
     should have spent itself.

     At this point, Maxwell, the tragedian from Marlboro, obtained the
     floor. He is one of the most amusing characters connected with
     the big show. He hadn't "seen any chairs raised," and, folding
     his arms and throwing himself back in a tragic and majestic
     position, said: "I, gentlemen, was the coolest of the cool." This
     remark, brought the house down. The worst of them were compelled
     to laugh; especially those who know he never keeps cool. He wound
     up his harangue by saying that the day was fast approaching when
     men would seek their rights on the ... face to face with
     newspaper men ... got the floor....

     After other speeches, of a like nature, Captain Canton, city
     editor of The Union-Herald, stepped in front of the reporters
     table, read the article, and explained to them how he obtained
     his information and what he saw with his own eyes, winding up,
     after being interrupted several times, by telling them that
     "newspaper men were abundantly able to take care of themselves."

     The discussion continued until Elliott moved that the whole
     matter be laid upon the table, which was agreed to.

     Mr. Keegan, the correspondent of The Washington Chronicle, had
     listened to their foul language of denunciation of himself and
     others of his profession, and seeing the question closed, the
     vilified correspondent, sought his hat, and turning round to the
     assembled mob, told them they had denounced him like a dog, and
     had denied him the right to defend himself. This remark of the
     correspondent cowed the more ignorant portion of the gang, and
     the resolution was withdrawn, which permitted him to explain to
     them as the representative of a Republican paper, a gentleman
     and a soldier; that he had fought to free them; fought against
     his own father, who owned 150 of their kind, and was a Major in
     the 5th Louisiana Regiment; that he fought for principle, while
     his father fought for property; that he had been sent to Columbia
     to report their doings and sayings, and to see if there was a
     possible hope of good government in South Carolina.

     This stopped the war upon the newspaper men. We devoutly hope
     that when he goes back across the Potomac he may....

     ROBERTSON'S EXPULSION

     AN INTERESTING REPORT OF THE PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE

     The School-Book Culprit's Speech in His Own Defense--His Attack
     Upon Mr. Cathcart and The News and Courier--A Pleasant Colloquy
     Between Hamilton and Leslie--The Close of the Discussion and Its
     Result

     (From our special correspondent)

     Columbia, S. C. February 25.--This has been a regular field day
     in the House, very nearly the entire session being devoted to a
     discussion of the report of the committee on privileges and
     elections concerning the guilt and expulsion of J. D. Robertson,
     of Beaufort.

