    "The shafts are five in number; and are situated at {63} the edge of
    Hanging Wood, in the parish of Chadwell, about three miles from Grays
    Pier. I descended two of them in 1847, by means of a rope and pulley
    fixed to the branch of a neighbouring tree,--taking the precaution to
    have a lighted lanthorn swinging a few yards beneath me. They were
    between eighty and ninety feet in depth,--their diameter at the top six
    feet, gradually diminishing to three feet at the bottom. There was a
    great deal of drift sand at the bottom of the shaft, extending a
    considerable way up, which nearly blocked up the entrance to the
    chambers. By treading down the sand I soon gained an entrance, and
    found five chambers communicating with the shaft--three on one side and
    two on the other. In form they were nearly semicircular. Their
    dimensions were small, not exceeding thirty feet in length by fifteen
    in width, but very lofty; they were quite dry and free from foul air.
    The chambers in both shafts corresponded exactly with each other in
    size, form, and number. I trust this brief account may be of some
    service to those gentlemen who intend to explore them, and should be
    most happy to afford any assistance in my power."

Mistake in Conybeare and Howson's Life of St. Paul.--In the splendid and learned Life of St.
Paul, now publishing by Messrs. Longmans, there occurs in a note a broad assertion, but quite
erroneous, which may mislead those who would be inclined to take it without examination, induced
by the general accuracy and learning of the work. At page 35, note 1., the writer says, "It
is remarkable that the Sadducees are mentioned in no other books of the New Testament, except
St. Matthew and the Acts." I mentioned this as a fact to a friend, who immediately remembered
a passage in St. Luke, chap. xx. v. 27.: "Then came to him certain of the Sadducees," &c. I
then turned out Sadducees in Cruden, and there found only Matthew and Acts referred to. On
looking at the passage of St. Mark parallel to the abovementioned of St. Luke, I read, "Then
came unto him the Sadducees," &c. (xii. 18.) The note, therefore, should end, "except the first
three Gospels and the Acts."

E. S. JACKSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

Miscellaneous. Though the present work belongs to one of the two classes which, for obvious
reasons, we do not undertake to notice in our columns, there is so much of curious matter illustrative
of Folk Lore, early remains, and old-world customs, in the third part of it, as to justify
our directing the attention of our antiquarian readers to the archæology of the volume. The
Druidic Beltein or Midsummer Fire still burns brightly, it appears, in Cornwall. We shall endeavour
to transfer to our Folk Lore columns some passages on this and other cognate subjects.

Mr. Russell Smith announces a series of Critical and Historical Tracts on the subject of, I.
Agincourt; II. First Colonists of New England (this is already issued); and III. Milton, a
Sheaf of Gleanings after his Biographers and Annotators. The name of Joseph Hunter, F.S.A.,
which figures upon their title-pages, is a sufficient warrant that they will deserve the attention
of the historical student.

Mr. M. A. Denham, the author of the interesting Collection of Proverbs and Popular Sayings
relating to the Seasons, Weather, &c., published by the Percy Society, also intends to issue
some Tracts (limited to fifty copies of each) illustrative of the antiquities of the northern
parts of the kingdom. The first is to be on The Slogans or Slughorns of the North of England;
the second, on "Some of the Manners and Customs" of the North.

We have received the following Catalogues:--Joseph Lilly's (7. Pall Mall) Catalogue of a Choice
and Valuable Collection of Rare, Curious, and Useful Books; William Andrews' (7. Corn Street,
Bristol) Catalogue, Part IV., 1850, Books just bought from the Deanery, Armagh, &c.; and J.
Russell Smith's (4. Old Compton Street, Soho) Bibliotheca Historica et Topographica; Books
illustrating the History, Antiquities, and Topography of Great Britain and Ireland.

[The edition that contains the History of Joseph as a Praxis, not that which contains the Proverbs.]

OAKLEY ON OUR LORD'S PASSION.

TITLE AND INDEX TO VOLUME THE FIRST. A Double Number will be published next week, containing
Title and copious Index to the First Volume, price 9d., or stamped to go post free, 11d.

The Monthly Part will be ready at the same time, price 1s. 9d., including the Title and Index.

DELTA. The following appears to us the true reading of the legend of the seal transmitted:--

  + MINATIVS. T. MRRIS. PPOx. ECCLExIES:SCE:
              MRIE. D'. GALLATE.

There appears little doubt as to the last word, whatever may be the locality intended. "Gallatum"
has been used for "Wallop" in Hampshire, but it is doubtful if this seal applies to that place.

C. F. O. The Phigaleian Marbles are in the British Museum. The casts described were modelled
from them by an accomplished London Artist.

Errata.--No. 33., p. 39, 40., in the article Cosas de España, Tereda should be Texeda; and
for Carrascon, which recently had been reprinted, read has. {64}

       *       *       *       *       *

TO BOOKSELLERS, PRINTERS, STATIONERS, and LITERARY MEN in General, a Country Business, established
upwards of Fifty Years, and yielding a net profit of 300l. per annum, is now to be sold a great
Bargain: it embraces Printing, Bookselling, and Stationery; is carried on in the West of England,
on premises admirably adapted for its various branches, and held at a very Low Rental. About
1200l. or 1300l. will be required for the purchase of the Stock, Printing Presses, &c., (which
is of the best description), one-third of which may remain on approved Security. Address by
Letter only to T. W., Messrs. Simpkin, Marshall, and Co., Stationer's Court, Ludgate Hill.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LATEST WORK ON NINEVEH.

Now ready, Fourth Edition, with upwards of 100 Plates and Woodcuts, 2 vols. 8vo., 36s.

NINEVEH AND ITS REMAINS: being a Narrative of Researches and Discoveries amidst the Ruins of
Assyria. With an account of the Chaldean Christians of Kurdistan; the Yezidis, or Devil-worshippers;
and an Enquiry into the Manners and Arts of the Ancient Assyrians. By AUSTEN H. LAYARD, D.C.L.

"This is, we think, the most extraordinary work of the present age, whether with reference
to the wonderful discoveries it describes, its remarkable verification of our early biblical
history, or the talent, courage, and perseverance of its author. We have had our Bruces and
Mungo Parks, as well as our Parrys, Franklins, Backs, and Rosses, but we question whether a
more enlightened or a more enterprising traveller than Mr. Layard is to be met with in the
annals of our modern English history."--From the TIMES.

JOHN MURRAY, Albemarle Street.

       *       *       *       *       *

Published Monthly, price 6d.; Stamped, 7d.; or in advance, 6s.

The Devotional Library was commenced in 1846. The design of the Proprietors was to publish,
at the lowest possible price, a series of Works, original, or selected from well-known Church
of England Divines, which, from their practical character, as well as their cheapness, would
be peculiarly useful to the clergy for parochial distribution. Since that period the following
have appeared:--

  Helps to Self-Examination, ½d. ... Original.
  The Sum of Christianity, 1d. ... A. Ellis.
  Directions for Spending One Day Well, ½d. ... Abp. Synge.
  Short Reflections for Morning and Evening, 2d. ... Spinckes.
  Prayers for a Week, 2d. ... Sorocold.

