The Vesper-bird attracts more general attention to his notes than the Sparrow, because he sings
a longer, though a more monotonous song, and warbles with more fervency. His notes bear considerable
resemblance to those of the Canary-bird, but they are more subdued and plaintive, and have
a peculiar reedy sound, which is never perceived in the notes of the Canary. This bird is periodical
in his habits of song, confining his lays to particular hours of the day and conditions of
the weather. The Song-Sparrow, on the contrary, sings about equally from morning to night,
and but little more at one hour than another; and the different performers of this species
do not seem to join in concert. This habit renders the latter more companionable, at the same
time it causes his notes to be less regarded than those of the Vesper-bird, who pours them
forth more sparingly, and at regular periods.

The Vesper-bird begins with all his kindred in a general concert at early dawn, after which
they are comparatively silent until sunset, when they repeat their concert, with still greater
zeal than they chanted in the morning. It is from this circumstance that it has obtained the
name it bears--from its evening hymn, or vespers. I have heard this name applied to it only
in one locality; but it is so precisely applicable to its habits, that I have thought it worthy
of being retained as its distinguishing cognomen. There are particular states of the weather
that frequently call out the birds of this species into a general concert at other periods
of the day--as when rain is suddenly followed by sunshine, or when a clear sky is suddenly
darkened by clouds, presenting to them a sort of occasional morn and occasional even. It may
be remarked, that you seldom hear one of these birds singing alone; but when one begins, all
others in the vicinity immediately join him.

The usual resorts of the Vesper-bird are the pastures and the hay-fields; hence the name of
Grass-Finch, by which he is usually distinguished. His voice is heard frequently by the rustic
roadsides, where he picks up a considerable portion of his subsistence. This is the little
bird that so generally serenades us during our evening walks, at a little distance from the
town, and not so far into the woods as the haunts of the Thrushes. When we go out into the
country, on pleasant days in June or July, at nightfall, we hear multitudes of them singing
sweetly from a hundred different points in the fields and farms.

Among the birds which are endowed by Nature with the gift of song in connection with gaudy
plumage is the American Goldfinch, or Hemp-bird, (Fringilla tristis,) one of the most interesting
and delicate of the feathered tribe. Of all our birds this bears the closest resemblance to
the Canary, both in his plumage and in the notes of his song. He cannot be ranked with the
finest of our songsters, being deficient in compass and variety. But he has great sweetness
of tone, and is equalled by few birds in the rapidity of his execution. His note of complaint
is exactly like that of the Canary, and is heard at almost all times of the year. He utters
also, when flying, a very animated series of notes, during the repeated undulations of his
night, and they seem to be uttered with each effort he makes to rise.

It is remarkable that this bird, though he often rears two broods in a season, does not begin
to build his nest until July, after the first broods of the Robin and the Song-Sparrow have
flown from their nests. Mr. Augustus Fowler[2] is of opinion, from his observation of their
habits of feeding their young, that the cause of this procrastination is, "that they would
be unable to find, in the spring and early summer, those new and milky seeds which are the
necessary food of their young," and takes occasion to allude to that beneficent law of Nature
which provides that these birds "should not bring forth their young until the very time when
those seeds used by them for food have passed into the milk, in which state they are easily
dissolved by the stomach, and when an abundant supply may always be found."

The Hemp-birds are remarkable for associating at a certain season, and singing, as it were,
in choirs. "During spring and summer," says Mr. Fowler, "they rove about in small flocks, and
in July will assemble together in considerable numbers on a particular tree, seemingly for
no other purpose than to sing. These concerts are held by them on the forenoon of each day,
for a week or ten days, after which they soon commence building their nests. I am inclined
to believe that this is their time of courtship, and that they have a purpose in these meetings
beside that of singing. If perchance one is heard in the air, the males utter their call-note
with great emphasis, particularly if the new-comer be a female; and while in her undulating
flight she describes a circle, preparatory to alighting, they will stand almost erect, move
their heads to the right and left, and burst simultaneously into song."

While engaged in these concerts, it would seem as if they were governed by some rule, that
enabled them to time their voices, and to swell or diminish the volume of sound. Some of this
effect is undoubtedly produced by the gradual manner in which the different voices join in
harmony, beginning with one or two, and increasing in numbers in a sort of geometrical progression,
until all are singing at once, and then in the same gradual manner becoming silent. This produces
the effect of a perfect crescendo and diminuendo. Beginning, as it seems, at a distance, one
voice leads on another, and the numbers multiply until they make a loud shout, which dies away
gradually until one single voice winds up the chorus. These concerts are repeated at intervals,
sometimes for an hour in duration.

Another peculiar habit of the Hemp-bird is that of building a nest, and then tearing it to
pieces before any eggs have been deposited in it, and using the materials to make a new nest
in another locality. In former years I have repeatedly watched this singular operation, in
the Lombardy poplars that stood before my study-windows. I have thought that the male bird
only was addicted to this practice, and that this might be his method of amusement while unprovided
with a partner. The nest of the Hemp-bird is made of cotton, the down of the fern, and other
soft materials, woven together with threads and the fibres of bark, and lined with thistle-down,
if it be late enough to obtain it, and sometimes with cow's hair. It is commonly placed in
the fork of the slender branches of a maple, linden, or poplar, and is fastened to them with
singular ingenuity.

Among the earliest songsters of spring, occasionally tuning his voice before the arrival of
the multitudinous choir, is the Crimson Finch or American Linnet (Fringilla purpurea). I have
frequently heard his notes on warm days in March, and once, in a very mild season, I heard
one warbling cheerily on the 18th of February. But the Linnet does not persevere like the Song-Sparrow,
after he has once commenced. His voice is only occasionally heard, until the middle of April,
after which he is a very constant singer.

The notes of this bird are very simple and melodious, and some individuals greatly excel others
in their powers of song. It is generally believed that the young males are the best singers,
and that age diminishes their vocal capacity. The greater number utter only a few strains,
resembling the notes of the Warbling Fly-catcher, (Vireo gilvus,) and these are constantly
repeated during the greater part of the day. His song consists of four or five bars or strains;
but there are individuals that extend them ad libitum, varying their notes after the manner
of the Canary. The latter, however, sings with more precision, and is louder and shriller in
his tones. I have not observed that this bird is more prone to sing in the morning and evening
than at noonday and at all hours.

I have alluded to the fact that the finest singing-birds build their nests and seek their food
either on the ground or among the shrubbery and the lower branches of trees, and that, when
singing, they are commonly perched rather low. The Linnet is an exception to this general habit
of the singing-birds, and, in company with the Warbling Fly-catchers, he is commonly high up
in an elm or some other tall tree, and almost entirely out of sight, when exercising himself
in song. It is this preference for the higher branches of trees that enables these birds, as
well as the Golden Robin, to be denizens of the city. Hence they may be heard singing as freely
and melodiously from the trees on Boston Common as in the wild-wood or orchard in the country.

I have seen the Linnet frequently in confinement; but he does not sing so well in a cage as
in a state of freedom. His finest and most prolonged strains are delivered while on the wing.
On such occasions only does he sing with fervor. While perched on a tree, his song is short
and not greatly varied. If you closely watch his movements when he is singing, he may be seen
on a sudden to take flight, and, while poising himself in the air, though still advancing,
he pours out a continued strain of melody, not surpassed by the notes of any other bird. On
account of the infrequency of these occasions, it is seldom we have an opportunity to witness
a full exhibition of the musical powers of the Linnet.

The male American Linnet is crimson on the head, neck, and throat, dusky on the upper part
of its body, and beneath somewhat straw-colored. It is remarkable that a great many individuals
are destitute of this color, being plainly clad, like the female. These are supposed to be
old birds, and the loss of color is attributed to age. The same change takes place when the
bird is confined.

The little bird whose notes serve more than those of any other species to enliven the summer
noondays in our villages is the House-Wren (Troglodytes fulvus). It is said to reside and rear
its young chiefly in the Middle States; but it is far from being uncommon in Massachusetts,
and, as it extends its summer migrations to Labrador, it is probable that it breeds there also.
It is evident, however, that its breeding-places are not confined to northern latitudes. It
is a migratory bird, is never seen here in winter, but commonly arrives in May and returns
south early in October. It builds in a hollow tree, like the Blue-bird, or in a box or other
vessel provided for it, and by furnishing such accommodations we may easily entice one to make
its home in our inclosures.

The Wren is a very active bird, and one of the most restless of the feathered tribe. He is
continually in motion, and even when singing he is always flitting about and changing his position.
We see him in almost all places, as it were, at the same moment of time,--now warbling in ecstasy
from the roof of a shed, then, with his wings spread and feathers ruffled, scolding furiously
at a Blue-bird or a Swallow that has alighted on his box, or driving a Robin from a cherry-tree
that stands near his habitation. The next instant we observe him running along on a stone wall,
and diving down and in and out, from one side to the other, through the openings between the
stories, with all the nimbleness of a squirrel. He is on the ridge of the barn-roof, he is
peeping into the dove-cote, he is in the garden under the currant-bushes, or chasing a spider
or a moth under a cabbage-leaf; again he is on the roof of the shed, warbling vociferously;
and all these manoeuvres and peregrinations have occupied hardly a minute, so rapid and incessant
is he in his motions.

The notes of the Wren are very lively and garrulous, and, if not uttered more frequently during
the heat of the day, are certainly more noticeable at this hour. There is a concert at noonday,
as well as in the morning and evening, among the birds, and in the former the Wren is one of
the principal musicians. After the full rays of the sun have silenced the early performers,
the Song-Sparrow and the Red Thrush continue to sing, at intervals, the greater part of the
day. The Wren is likewise heard at all hours; but when the languishing heat of noon has arrived,
and most of the birds are silent, the few that continue to sing become more than usually vocal,
and seem to form a select company. They appear, indeed, to prefer the noonday, because the
general silence that prevails at this hour renders their voices more distinguishable than at
other times. The birds which are thus, as it were, associated with the Wren, in this noonday
concert, are the Bobolink, the Cat-bird, and the two Warbling Fly-catchers, occasionally joined
by the few and simple notes of the Summer Yellow-bird. If we are in the vicinity of the deep
woods, we may also hear, at this hour, the loud and shrill voice of the Golden-Crowned Thrush,
a bird that is partial to the heat of noon.

Of all these, however, the Wren is the most remarkable, having a note that is singularly varied
and animated. He exhibits great compass and power of execution, but wants variety in his tones.
He begins very sharp and shrill, like a grasshopper, then suddenly falls to a series of low
guttural notes, and ascends, like the rolling of a drum, to another series of high notes, rapidly
trilled. Almost without a pause, he recommences with his querulous insect-chirp, and proceeds
through the same trilling and demi-semiquavering as before. He is not particular about the
part of the song which he makes his closing note, but will leave off right in the middle of
a strain, when he appears to be in the height of ecstasy, to pick up a spider or a fly.

As the Wren raises two broods of young in a season, his notes are prolonged to a late period
of the summer, being frequently heard in the second or third week in August. He leaves for
a southern clime about the first of October. In his migratory habits he differs from the European
Wren, which is a constant resident in his native regions.

Our American birds, like the American flowers, have not been celebrated in classic song. They
are scarcely known, except to our own people, and they have not in general been exalted by
praise above their real merits. We read, both in prose and verse, the praises of the European
Lark, Linnet, and Nightingale, and the English Robin Redbreast has been immortalized in song.
But the American Robin, (Turdus migratorius,) though surnamed Redbreast, is a bird of different
species and different habits. Little has been written about him, and he enjoys but little celebrity;
he has never been puffed and overpraised, and, though universally admired, the many who admire
him are diffident all the while, lest they are mistaken in their judgment and are wasting their
admiration upon an object that is unworthy of it, and whose true merits fall short of their
own estimate.

I shall not ask pardon of those critics who are always canting about genius--and who would
probably deny this gift to the Robin, because he cannot cry like a chicken or squall like a
cat, and because with his charming strains he does not mingle all sorts of discords and incongruous
sounds--for assigning to the Robin the highest rank as a singing-bird. Let them say of him,
in the cant of modern criticism, that his performances cannot be great, because they are faultless;
it is enough for me, that his mellow notes, heard at the earliest flush of morning, in the
more busy hour of noon, or the quiet lull of evening, come upon the ear in a stream of unqualified
melody, as if he had learned to sing under the direct instruction of that beautiful Dryad who
taught the Lark and the Nightingale. The Robin is surpassed by certain birds in some particular
qualities. The Mocking-bird has more power, the Red Thrush more variety, the Vesper-bird more
execution, and the Bobolink more animation; but each of these birds has more faults than the
Robin, and would be less esteemed as a constant companion, a vocalist for all hours, whose
strains never tire and never offend.

There are thousands who admire the Mocking-bird, because, after pouring forth a continued stream
of ridiculous and disagreeable sounds, or a series of two or three notes repeated more than
a hundred times in uninterrupted and monotonous succession, he condescends to utter a single
delightfully modulated strain. He often brings his tiresome extravaganzas to a magnificent
climax of melody, and just as often concludes an inimitable chant with a most contemptible
bathos. But the notes of the Robin are all melodious, all delightful,--loud without vociferation,
mellow without monotony, fervent without ecstasy, and combining more of mellowness of tone,
plaintiveness, cheerfulness, and propriety of execution, than those of any other bird.

The Robin is the Philomel of our spring and summer mornings in New England, and in all the
country north and west of these States. Without his sweet notes, the mornings would be like
a vernal landscape without flowers, or a summer-evening sky without tints. He is the chief
performer in the delightful anthem that welcomes the rising day. Of the others, the best are
but accompaniments of more or less importance. Remove the Robin from this woodland orchestra,
and it would be left without a soprano. Over all the northern parts of this continent, wherever
there are any human settlements, these birds are numerous and familiar. There is probably not
an orchard in all New England that is not supplied with several of these musicians. When we
consider the millions thus distributed over this broad country, we can imagine the sublimity
of that chorus which, from the middle of April until the last of July, must daily ascend to
heaven from the voices of these birds, not one male of which is silent, on any pleasant morning,
from the earliest flush of dawn until sunrise.

In my boyhood, an early morning-walk was one of my favorite recreations, and never can I forget
those delightful matins that awaited me at every turn. Even then I wondered that so little
admiration was expressed for the song of the Robin, who seemed to me to be worthy of the highest
regard. The Robin, when reared in confinement, is one of the most affectionate and interesting
of birds. His powers of song are likewise susceptible of great improvement. Though not prone
to imitation, he may be taught to sing tunes, and to imitate the notes of other birds. I have
heard one whistle "Over the water to Charlie" as well as it could be played with a fife. Indeed,
this bird is so tractable, that I believe any well-directed efforts would never fail of teaching
him to sing any simple melody.

But what do we care about his power of learning artificial music? Even if he could be taught
to perform like a maestro, this would not enhance his value as a minstrel of the woods. We
are concerned with the birds only as they are in a state of nature. It is the simplicity of
the songs of birds, as I have before remarked, that constitutes their principal charm; and
were the Robins so changed in their nature as to relinquish their native notes, and sing only
tunes hereafter, we should listen to them with as much indifference as to the whistling of
boys in the streets.

In the elms on Boston Common, and in all the lofty trees in the suburbs as well as in the country
villages, are two little birds whose songs are heard daily and hourly, from the middle of May
until the latter part of summer. These are the Warbling Fly-catchers (Vireo gilvus and V. olivaceus).
The first is commonly designated as the Warbling Vireo, the second as the Red-eyed Vireo. The
former arrives about a week or ten days earlier than the other, and becomes silent likewise
at a somewhat earlier period. Both species are very similar in their habits, frequenting the
villages in preference to the woods, singing at all hours of the day, particularly at noon,
taking all their insect prey from the leaves and branches of trees, or seizing it as it flits
by their perch, and amusing themselves, while thus employed, with oft-repeated fragments of
song. Each builds a pensile nest, or places it in the fork of the slender branches of a tree.
I have seen a nest of the Warbling Vireo placed less than fifteen feet from the ground, on
a pear-tree, directly opposite the window of a chamber that was constantly occupied; but the
nests of both species are usually suspended at a considerable height from the ground.

The notes of the Warbling Vireo have been described by the words, "Brigadier, Brigadier, Bridget."
They are few, simple, and melodious, and being often repeated, they form a very important part
of the sylvan music of cultivated and thickly-settled places. It is difficult to obtain sight
of this little warbler while he is singing, on account of his small size, the olive color of
his plumage, and his habit of perching among the dense foliage of the trees.

The Red-eyed Vireo is more generally known by his note, because he is particularly vocal during
the heat of the long summer-days, when other birds are comparatively silent. The modulation
of his notes is similar to that of the common Robin, but his tones are sharper, and he sings
in a very desultory manner, leaving off very frequently in the middle of a strain to seize
a moth or a beetle. Singing, while he is engaged in song, never seems to be his sole employment.
This is the little bird that warbles for us late in the summer, after almost all other birds
have become silent, uttering his moderate notes, as if for his own amusement, during all the
heat of the day, from the trees by the roadsides and in our inclosures. We might then suppose
him to be repeating very moderately the words, "Do you hear me? Do you see me?" with the rising
inflection of the voice, and with a pause after each sentence, as if he waited for an answer.

As soon as the cherry-tree is in blossom, and when the oak and the maple are beginning to unfold
their plaited leaves, the loud and mellow notes of the Golden Robin (Icterus Baltimore) are
heard for the first time in the year. I have never known the birds of this species to arrive
before this date, and they seem to be governed by the supply of their insect food, which probably
becomes abundant simultaneously with the flowering of the orchards. These birds may from that
time be observed diligently hunting among the branches and foliage of the trees, and they appear
to make a particular examination of the blossoms, from which they obtain a great variety of
flies and beetles that are lodged in them. While thus employed, the bird frequently utters
his brief, but loud and melodious notes; but he sings, like the Vireo, only while attending
to the wants of life. Almost all remarkable singing-birds, when warbling, give themselves up
entirely to song, and pay no regard to other demands upon their time until they have concluded.
But the Golden Robin never relaxes from his industry, nor remains stationed upon the branch
of a tree for the sole purpose of singing. He sings, like an industrious maid-of-all-work,
only while employed in the ordinary concerns of life.

The Golden Robin is said to inhabit North America from Canada to Mexico; but there is reason
to believe that the species is most abundant in the north-eastern parts of the continent, and
that a greater number breed in the New England States than either south or west of this section.
They are also more numerous in the suburbs of cities and towns than in the ruder and more primitive
parts of the country. Their peculiar manner of protecting their pensile nests, by hanging them
from the extremities of the lofty branches of an elm or other tall tree, enables the bird to
rear its young with great security, even in the heart of the city. The only animals that are
able to reach their nests are the smaller squirrels, which sometimes descend the long, slender
branches upon which they are suspended, and devour the eggs.

This depredation I have never witnessed; but I have seen the Red Squirrel descend in this manner
to devour the crysalis of a certain insect, which was rolled up in a leaf.

The ways and manners of the Golden Robin are very interesting. He is remarkable for his vivacity,
and his bright plumage renders all his movements conspicuous. His plumage needs no description,
since every one is familiar with its colors, as they are seen like flashes of fire among the
trees. The bird derives its specific name (Baltimore) from the resemblance of its colors to
the livery of Lord Baltimore of Maryland. The name of a bird ought to have either a sylvan
or a poetic origin. This has neither. I prefer, therefore, the common and expressive name of
Golden Robin.

This bird is supposed to possess considerable power of musical imitation. Still it may be observed
that in all cases he gives the notes of those birds only whose voice resembles his own. Thus,
he often repeats the song of the Red-bird, but in doing this he varies his own notes no more
than he might do without meaning any imitation. Though he repeats but few notes, he utters
them with great variety of modulation. Sometimes for several days he confines himself to a
single strain, and afterwards for about an equal space of time he will adopt another strain.
Sometimes he lengthens his brief notes into an extended melody, and sings in a sort of ecstasy,
like the birds of the Finch tribe. Such musical paroxysms are exceedingly rare in his case,
and seem to be occasioned by some momentary exultation.

The Golden Robin rears but one brood of young in this part of the country, and his cheerful
notes are discontinued soon after the young have left their nest. The song of the old bird
seems after this period hardly necessary to the offspring, who keep up an incessant chirping
from the moment of leaving their nest until they are able to accompany the old ones to the
woods, whither they retire in the latter part of the season. It is remarkable, that, after
a perfect silence of two or three weeks after this time, the Golden Robins suddenly make their
appearance again for a few days, uttering the same merry notes with which they hailed the arrival
of summer. They soon disappear again, and before autumn arrives they make their annual journey
to the South, where they pass the winter.

