The life of Granville Sharp is another striking example of the same power of individual energy--a
power which was afterwards transfused into the noble band of workers in the cause of Slavery
Abolition, prominent among whom were Clarkson, Wilberforce, Buxton, and Brougham.  But, giants
though these men were in this cause, Granville Sharp was the first, and perhaps the greatest
of them all, in point of perseverance, energy, and intrepidity.  He began life as apprentice
to a linen-draper on Tower Hill; but, leaving that business after his apprenticeship was out,
he next entered as a clerk in the Ordnance Office; and it was while engaged in that humble
occupation that he carried on in his spare hours the work of Negro Emancipation.  He was always,
even when an apprentice, ready to undertake any amount of volunteer labour where a useful purpose
was to be served.  Thus, while learning the linen-drapery business, a fellow apprentice who
lodged in the same house, and was a Unitarian, led him into frequent discussions on religious
subjects. The Unitarian youth insisted that Granville's Trinitarian misconception of certain
passages of Scripture arose from his want of acquaintance with the Greek tongue; on which he
immediately set to work in his evening hours, and shortly acquired an intimate knowledge of
Greek.  A similar controversy with another fellow- apprentice, a Jew, as to the interpretation
of the prophecies, led him in like manner to undertake and overcome the difficulties of Hebrew.

But the circumstance which gave the bias and direction to the main labours of his life originated
in his generosity and benevolence. His brother William, a surgeon in Mincing Lane, gave gratuitous
advice to the poor, and amongst the numerous applicants for relief at his surgery was a poor
African named Jonathan Strong.  It appeared that the negro had been brutally treated by his
master, a Barbadoes lawyer then in London, and became lame, almost blind, and unable to work;
on which his owner, regarding him as of no further value as a chattel, cruelly turned him adrift
into the streets to starve.  This poor man, a mass of disease, supported himself by begging
for a time, until he found his way to William Sharp, who gave him some medicine, and shortly
after got him admitted to St. Bartholomew's hospital, where he was cured.  On coming out of
the hospital, the two brothers supported the negro in order to keep him off the streets, but
they had not the least suspicion at the time that any one had a claim upon his person.  They
even succeeded in obtaining a situation for Strong with an apothecary, in whose service he
remained for two years; and it was while he was attending his mistress behind a hackney coach,
that his former owner, the Barbadoes lawyer, recognized him, and determined to recover possession
of the slave, again rendered valuable by the restoration of his health.  The lawyer employed
two of the Lord Mayor's officers to apprehend Strong, and he was lodged in the Compter, until
he could be shipped off to the West Indies.  The negro, bethinking him in his captivity of
the kind services which Granville Sharp had rendered him in his great distress some years before,
despatched a letter to him requesting his help.  Sharp had forgotten the name of Strong, but
he sent a messenger to make inquiries, who returned saying that the keepers denied having any
such person in their charge.  His suspicions were roused, and he went forthwith to the prison,
and insisted upon seeing Jonathan Strong.  He was admitted, and recognized the poor negro,
now in custody as a recaptured slave.  Mr. Sharp charged the master of the prison at his own
peril not to deliver up Strong to any person whatever, until he had been carried before the
Lord Mayor, to whom Sharp immediately went, and obtained a summons against those persons who
had seized and imprisoned Strong without a warrant. The parties appeared before the Lord Mayor
accordingly, and it appeared from the proceedings that Strong's former master had already sold
him to a new one, who produced the bill of sale and claimed the negro as his property.  As
no charge of offence was made against Strong, and as the Lord Mayor was incompetent to deal
with the legal question of Strong's liberty or otherwise, he discharged him, and the slave
followed his benefactor out of court, no one daring to touch him.  The man's owner immediately
gave Sharp notice of an action to recover possession of his negro slave, of whom he declared
he had been robbed.

About that time (1767), the personal liberty of the Englishman, though cherished as a theory,
was subject to grievous infringements, and was almost daily violated.  The impressment of men
for the sea service was constantly practised, and, besides the press-gangs, there were regular
bands of kidnappers employed in London and all the large towns of the kingdom, to seize men
for the East India Company's service.  And when the men were not wanted for India, they were
shipped off to the planters in the American colonies.  Negro slaves were openly advertised
for sale in the London and Liverpool newspapers.  Rewards were offered for recovering and securing
fugitive slaves, and conveying them down to certain specified ships in the river.

The position of the reputed slave in England was undefined and doubtful.  The judgments which
had been given in the courts of law were fluctuating and various, resting on no settled principle.
Although it was a popular belief that no slave could breathe in England, there were legal men
of eminence who expressed a directly contrary opinion.  The lawyers to whom Mr. Sharp resorted
for advice, in defending himself in the action raised against him in the case of Jonathan Strong,
generally concurred in this view, and he was further told by Jonathan Strong's owner, that
the eminent Lord Chief Justice Mansfield, and all the leading counsel, were decidedly of opinion
that the slave, by coming into England, did not become free, but might legally be compelled
to return again to the plantations.  Such information would have caused despair in a mind less
courageous and earnest than that of Granville Sharp; but it only served to stimulate his resolution
to fight the battle of the negroes' freedom, at least in England.  "Forsaken," he said, "by
my professional defenders, I was compelled, through the want of regular legal assistance, to
make a hopeless attempt at self- defence, though I was totally unacquainted either with the
practice of the law or the foundations of it, having never opened a law book (except the Bible)
in my life, until that time, when I most reluctantly undertook to search the indexes of a law
library, which my bookseller had lately purchased."

The whole of his time during the day was occupied with the business of the ordnance department,
where he held the most laborious post in the office; he was therefore under the necessity of
conducting his new studies late at night or early in the morning.  He confessed that he was
himself becoming a sort of slave.  Writing to a clerical friend to excuse himself for delay
in replying to a letter, he said, "I profess myself entirely incapable of holding a literary
correspondence.  What little time I have been able to save from sleep at night, and early in
the morning, has been necessarily employed in the examination of some points of law, which
admitted of no delay, and yet required the most diligent researches and examination in my study."

