The Convent of the Annonciades, situated in a secluded spot on the outskirts of Paris, has
long been well reputed as an educational establishment for young ladies of good family. The
sisters themselves are women of refinement and cultivation, and the antecedents of every pupil
received by them are most carefully inquired into: so carefully, indeed, that admission to
the Convent School is looked on almost as a certificate of noble birth and unimpeachable orthodoxy.
The Ladies of the Annonciades have indeed lately relaxed their rules, so far as to receive
as parlor-boarders some very rich American girls and the children of a Protestant English marquis;
but wealth in the first instance, and birth in the second, counterbalance the objections that
might be raised to their origin or their faith. These exceptions to the rule are, however,
few and far between; and, in spite of the levelling tendencies of our democratic days, Annonciades
Convent is still one of the most exclusive and aristocratic establishments of the kind in Europe.

Although we know too well that small-minded jealousy, strife, and bickering must exist in a
community of women cut off so entirely from the outer world as in this Convent of the Annonciades,
it must be confessed that the very name and air of the place possess a certain romantic charm.
The house is old, turreted like a chateau, overgrown with clematis and passion-flower. The
grounds, enclosed by high mossy walls, are of great extent, and beautifully laid out. The long
chestnut avenue, the sparkling fountains, the trim flower-beds, are the delight of the sisters'
hearts. The green beauty of the garden, and the grey stones of the ancient building, form a
charming background for the white-veiled women who glide with noiseless footsteps along the
cloisters or the avenue: a background more becoming to them even than to the bevy of girls
in their everyday grey frocks, or their Sunday garb of white and blue. For the sisters' quaint
and graceful dress harmonizes with the antique surroundings of building and ornament as anything
younger and more modern fails to do.

These women--shut off from the world, and knowing little of its joys or sorrows--have a strangely
tranquil air. With some the tranquility verges on childishness. One feels that they have not
conquered the world, they have but escaped it; and, as one pities the soldier who flies the
battle, so one mourns for the want of courage which has condemned these women to an inglorious
peace. But here and there another kind of face is to be seen. Here and there we come across
a countenance bearing the tragic impress of toil and grief and passion; and we feel it possible
that in this haven alone perhaps could a nature which had striven and suffered so greatly find
in the end a lasting place. But such faces are fortunately few and far between.

From the wide low window of the great salle d'étude a flight of steps with carved stone balustrades
led into the garden. The balustrades were half-covered with clustering white roses and purple
clematis on the day of which I write; and a breath of perfume, almost overpowering in its sweetness,
was wafted every now and then from the beds of mignonette and lilies on either side. The brilliant
sunshine of an early September day was not yet touched with the melancholy of autumn: the leaves
of the Virginia creeper had not yet changed to scarlet, nor had the chestnuts yellowed as if
winter was creeping on apace. Everything was still, warm and bright.

The stillness was partly accounted for by the fact that most of the pupils had gone home for
their summer holidays. The salle d'étude was empty and a little desolate: no hum of busy voices
came from its open window to the garden; and even the tranquil sisters seemed to miss the sound,
and to look wistfully at the bare desks and unused benches of their schoolroom. For they loved
their pupils and their work; both came, perhaps, as a welcome break in the monotony of their
barren lives; and they were sorry when the day came for their scholars to leave them for a
time. Still more did they grieve when the inevitable day of a final departure arrived. They
knew--some by hearsay, some by experience, and some by instinct alone--that the going away
from school into the world was the beginning of a new life, full, very often, of danger and
temptation, in which the good sisters and their teaching were likely to be forgotten, and it
was a sorrow to them to be henceforth dissociated from the thoughts and lives of those who
had often been under their guardianship and tuition for many years. Such a parting--probably
a final one--was now imminent, and not a few of the sisters were troubled by the prospect,
although it was against their rule to let any sign of such grief appear.

It was not the hour of recreation, but the ordinary routine of the establishment was for a
little while suspended, partly because it was holiday-time, and partly because an unusual event
was coming to pass. One of the parlor boarders, who had been with the sisters since her childhood,
first as a boarder and then as a guest, was about to leave them. She was to be fetched away
by her mother and her mother's father, who was an English milord, of fabulous wealth and distinction,
and, although at present a heretic, exceedingly "well-disposed" towards the Catholic church.
It was not often that a gentleman set foot within the precincts of the convent; and although
he would not be allowed to penetrate farther than the parlor, the very fact of his presence
sent a thrill of excitement through the house. An English milord, a heretic, the grandfather
of "cette chère Lisa," whom they were to lose so soon! No wonder the most placid of the nuns,
the most stolid of the lay-sisters, tingled with excitement to the finger-tips!

The girl whose departure from the convent school was thus regretted was known amongst her English
friends as Lesley Brooke. French lips, unaccustomed to a name like Lesley, had changed it into
Lisa; but Lesley loved her own name, which was a heritage in her family, and had been handed
down to her from her grandmother. She was always glad to hear it from friendly English lips.
She was nineteen now, and had stayed with the sisters an unusually long time without exactly
knowing why. Family circumstances, she was told, had hitherto prevented her mother from taking
her to an English home. But now the current of her life was to be changed. She was to leave
Paris: she was, she believed, even to leave France. Her mother had written that she was to
go to London, and that she (Lady Alice Brooke) would come for her, in company with Lesley's
grandfather, Lord Courtleroy, with whom she had been traveling abroad for some time past.

Lesley was overjoyed by the news. She had lately come to suspect something strange, something
abnormal, in her own position. She had remained at school when other girls went to their homes:
she never had been able to answer questions respecting her relations and their belongings.
Her mother, indeed, she knew; for she sometimes spent a portion of the holidays with Lady Alice
at a quiet watering-place in France or Italy. And her mother was all that could be desired.
Gentle, refined, beautiful, with a slight shade of melancholy which only made her delicate
face more attractive--at least in Lesley's eyes--Lady Alice Brooke gained love and admiration
whithersoever she went. But she never spoke of her husband. Lesley had gradually learned that
she must not mention his name. In her younger days she had been wont to ask questions about
her unknown father. Was he dead?--was he in another country?--why had she never seen him? She
soon found that these questions were gently but decidedly checked. Her mother did not decline
in so many words to answer them, but she set them aside. Only once, when Lesley was fifteen,
and made some timid, wistful reference to the father whom she had never known, did Lady Alice
make her a formal answer.

"I will tell you all about your father when you are old enough to hear," she said. "Until then,
Lesley, I had rather that you did not talk of him."

Lesley shrank into herself abashed, and never mentioned his name again.

All the same, as she grew older, her fancy played about this unknown father, as the fancy of
young girls always plays about a mystery. Had he committed some crime? Had he disgraced himself
and his family that his name might not be breathed in Lady Alice's ear? But she could not believe
that her good, beautiful mother would ever have loved and married a wicked man!--such was the
phrase that she, in her girlish innocence and ignorance, used to herself. As to scandal and
tittle-tattle, none of it reached the seclusion of her convent-home, or was allowed to sully
her fair mind. And it was impossible for her to connect the idea of folly, guilt, or shame
with the pure, sweet face of her mother, or the stately pride and dignity of her mother's father,
the Earl of Courtleroy. There was evidently a mystery; but she was sure of one thing, that
it was a mystery without disgrace.

And now, as she stood waiting on the stone steps, her face flushed a little, and her eyes filled
at the thought that she would now, perhaps, be allowed to hear the story of her parents' lives.
For she knew that she was going to leave the convent, and it had been vaguely hinted by Lady
Alice in a recent letter that on leaving the convent Lesley must be prepared for a great surprise.

Lesley looked over the silent, sweet-scented garden, and half-sighed, half-smiled, to think
that she should leave it so soon, and perhaps for ever. But she was excited rather than sad,
and when one of the sisters appeared at the door of the study, or salle d'étude, Lesley turned
towards her with a quick, eager gesture, which not all the training to which she had been subjected
since her childhood would have availed to suppress.

"Oh, sister, tell me, has she come?"

The sister was a tall, spare woman, with a thin face and great dark eyes, with eyelids slightly
reddened, as though by long weeping or sleeplessness. It was an austere face, but its severity
softened into actual sweetness as she smiled at her pupil's eagerness.

"Gently, my child: why so impetuous?" she said, taking the girl's hand in her own. "Yes, madame
has arrived: she is in the parlor, speaking to the Reverend Mother; and in five minutes you
are to go to her."

"Not for five minutes?" said Lesley; and then, controlling herself, she added, penitently.
"I know I am impatient, Sister Rose."

"Yes, dear child: you are impatient: it is in your nature, in your blood," said the sister,
looking at her with a sort of pity in her eyes--a pity which Lesley resented, without quite
knowing why. "And you are going into a world where you will find many things sadly different
from your expectations. If you remember the lessons that we have tried to read you here--lessons
of patience, endurance, resignation to the will of others, and especially to the will of God--you
will be happy in spite of sorrow and tribulation."

The young girl trembled: it seemed as if the sister spoke with a purpose, as if she knew of
some difficulty, some danger that lay before her. She had been trained to ask no questions,
and therefore she kept silence. But her lips trembled, and her beautiful brown eyes filled
with tears.

"Come, my dear child," said Sister Rose, taking her by the hand, after a short pause, "I will
take you to your mother. She will be ready for you now. May God protect you and guide you in
your way through the world!"

And Lesley lowered her head as if she had received a blessing. Sister Rose was a woman whom
Lesley honored and revered, and her words, therefore, sank deep, and often recurred to the
young girl's mind in days to come.

They went in silence to the door of the parlor. Here Sister Rose relinquished her pupil's hand,
tapped three times on one of the panels, and signed to Lesley to open the door. With a trembling
hand Lesley obeyed the sign; and in another moment she was in her mother's arms.

Lady Alice Brooke was a very attractive looking woman. She was tall, slight, and graceful,
and although she must have been close upon forty, she certainly had not the appearance of a
woman over four or five and thirty. Her complexion was untouched by time: her cheeks were smooth
and fair, her blue eyes clear. Her pretty brown hair had perhaps lost a little of the golden
tinge of its youth, but it was still soft and abundant. But the reason why people often turned
to look at her did not lie in any measure of grace and beauty that she possessed, so much as
in an indefinable air of distinction and refinement which seemed to pervade her whole being,
and marked her off from the rest of the world as one made of finer clay than others.

Many people resented this demeanor--which was quite unconscious on Lady Alice's part--and thought
that it signified pride, haughtiness, coldness of heart; but in all this they were greatly,
if not altogether, mistaken. Lady Alice was not of a cold nature, and she was never willingly
haughty; but in some respects, she was what the world calls proud. She was proud of her ancient
lineage; of the repute of her family, of the stainlessness of its name. And she had brought
up Lesley, as far as she could, in the same old tradition.

Lesley was like her mother, and unlike, too. She had her mother's tall, graceful figure; but
there was much more vivacity in her face than there had ever been in Lady Alice's; much more
warmth and life and color. There was more determination in the lines of her mouth and chin:
her brow was broader and fuller, and her eyes were dark brown instead of blue. But the likeness
was there, with a diversity of expression and of coloring.

"I thought you were never coming," said Lesley at length, as she clung fondly to her mother.
"I could hardly sleep last night for thinking how delightful it would be to go away with you!"

Lady Alice gave a little start, and looked at the girl as if there had been some hidden meaning
in her words.

"Go away with me?" she repeated.

"Yes, mother darling, and be with you always: to look after you and not let grandpapa tire
you with long walks and long games of backgammon. I shall be his companion as well as yours,
and I shall take care of you both. I have planned ever so many things that I mean to do--especially
when we go to Scotland."

"Lesley," said Lady Alice, faintly, "I am tired: let me sit down." And then, as the girl made
her seat herself in the one arm-chair that the room contained, and hung over her with affectionate
solicitude, she went on, with paling lips: "You never said these things in your letter, child!
I did not know that you were so anxious to come away--with me."

"Oh, mamma, dear, you surely knew it all the time?" said Lesley, thinking the comment a reproach.
"You surely knew how I longed to be with you? But I would not say much in my letters for fear
of making you think I was unhappy; and I have always been very happy here with the dear sisters
and the girls. But I thought you understood me, mamma--understood by instinct, as it were,"
said Lesley, kneeling by her mother's side, and throwing an occasional shy glance into her
mother's face.

"I understand perfectly, dear, and I see your unselfish motive. It makes me all the more sorry
to disappoint you as I am about to do."

"Oh, mamma! Am I not to leave school, then?"

"Yes, dear, you will leave school."

"And--and--with you?"

"You will come with me, certainly--until to-morrow, darling. But you leave me to-morrow, too."

The color began to fade from Lesley's cheeks, as it had already faded from Lady Alice's. The
girl felt a great swelling in her throat, and a film seemed to dim the clearness of her sight.
But Sister Rose's words came back to her mind with an inspiring thrill which restored her strength.
"Patience, endurance, resignation!" Was this the occasion on which she was to show whether
these virtues were hers or not? She would not fail in the hour of trial: she would be patient
and endure!

"If you will explain, mamma dear," she said, entreatingly, "I will try to do--as you would like."

"My darling! My Lesley! What a help it is to me to see you so brave!" said her mother, putting
her arms round the girl's shoulders, and resting her face on the bright young head. "If I could
keep you with me! but it will be only for a time, my child, and then--then you will come back
to me?"

"Come back to you, mamma? As if anything would keep me away! But what is it? where am I to
go? what am I to do? Why haven't you told me before?"

She was trembling with excitement. Patience was not one of Lesley's virtues. She felt, with
sudden heat of passion, that she could bear any pain rather than this suspense, which her mother's
gentle reluctance to give pain inflicted upon her.

"I did not tell you before," said Lady Alice, slowly, "because I was under a promise not to
do so. I have been obliged to keep you in the dark about your future for many a long year,
Lesley, and the concealment has always weighed upon my mind. You must forgive me, dearest,
for this: I did not see the consequence of my promise when I made it first."

"What promise was it, mamma?"

"To let you leave me for a time, my dear: to let you go from me--to let you choose your own
life--oh, it seems hard and cruel to me now."

"Tell me," pleaded Lesley, whose heart was by this time beating with painful rapidity, "tell
me all--quickly, mamma, and I promise----"

"Promise nothing until you have heard what I have to say," said her mother, drawing back. "I
want you to hear the story before you see your grandfather again: that is the reason why I
begged the Mother to let me speak to you here, before you left the convent. I have been forced
into my present line of action, Lesley: I never took it wilfully. You shall judge for yourself
if it were likely that I----But I will not excuse myself beforehand. I can tell you all that
is necessary for you to know in very few words; and the rest lies in your hands."

Lady Alice's pale lips quivered as she spoke, but her eyes were dry and filled with a light
which was singularly cold and stern. Lesley, kneeling still, looked up into her face, and,
fascinated by what she saw there, remained motionless and mute.

"I have not let you speak to me of your father," Lady Alice began, "because I did not know
how to answer your questions truthfully. But now I must speak of him. You have thought of him
sometimes?"

"Yes."

"And you have thought him dead?"

"I thought so--yes."

"But he is not dead," said Lady Alice, bitterly. "To my exceeding misfortune--and yours also--your
father, Lesley, is alive."

CHAPTER II.

LADY ALICE'S STORY.

The girl shrank back a little, but she did not remove her eyes from her mother's face. A great
dread, however, had entered into them. A hot color leaped into her cheeks. Scarcely did she
yet know what she dreaded; it was something intangible, too awful to be uttered--the terror
of disgrace.

But Lady Alice saw the look and interpreted it aright.

"No, my darling," she said, "it is not that. It is nothing to be ashamed of--exactly. I do
not accuse your father of any crime--unless it be a crime to have married a woman that he did
not love, and to whom he was not suited, and to have been cruel--yes, cruel--to her and to
her child."

And then she burst into tears.

"Mamma, dear mamma!" said Lesley, clasping her and sobbing out of sympathy, "it was a crime--worse
than a crime--to be cruel to you."

Lady Alice sobbed helplessly for a few minutes. Then she commanded herself by a great and visible
effort and dried her eyes.

"It is weak to give way before you, child," she said, sadly. "But I cannot tell you how much
I have dreaded this moment--the moment when I must tell you of the great error of my life."

"Don't tell me, mamma. I would rather hear nothing that you did not want me to know."

"But I must tell you, Lesley. It is in my bargain with my husband that I should tell you. If
I say nothing he will tell you his side--and perhaps that would be worse."

Lesley kissed her mother's delicate hand. "Then--if you must tell me--I should be glad to hear
it all now," she said, in a shaking voice. "Nothing seems so bad as to know half a story--or
only to guess a part----"

"Ah, you have wondered why I told you nothing of your father?"

"I could not help wondering, mamma."

"Poor child! Well, whatever it costs me I will tell you all my story now. Listen carefully,
darling: I do not want to have to tell it twice."

She pressed her handkerchief to her lips as if to prevent them from trembling, and then turning
her eyes to another part of the room so that they need not rest upon her daughter's face Lady
Alice began her story.

"My tale is a tale of folly, not of crime," she said. "You must remember, Lesley, that I was
a motherless girl, brought up in a lonely Scotch house in a very haphazard way. My dear father
loved me tenderly, but he was away from home for the greater part of the year; and he understood
little of a girl's nature or a girl's requirements. When I was sixteen he allowed me to dismiss
my governess, and to live as I liked. I was romantic and dreamy; I spent a great deal of time
in the library, and he thought that there at least I was safe. He would have been more careful
of me, as he said afterwards, if I had wanted to roam over the moors and fields, to fish or
shoot as many modern women do. I can only say that I think I should have been far safer on
the hillside or the moor than I was in the lonely recesses of that library, pouring over musty
volumes of chivalry and romance.

"My only change was a few weeks in London with friends, during the season. Here, young as I
was, I was thrown into a whirl of gaiety; but the society that I met was of the best sort,
and I welcomed it as a pleasant relaxation. I saw the pleasant side of everything. You see
I was very young. I went to the most charming parties; I was well introduced: I think I may
say that I was admired. My first season was almost the happiest--certainly the most joyous--period
of my life. But it was still a time of unreality, Lesley: the glitter and glamour of that glimpse
of London society was as unreal as my dreams of love and beauty and nobleness in the old library
at home. I lacked a mother's guiding hand, my child, and a mother's tender voice to tell me
what was false and what was true."

Involuntarily Lesley drew closer than ever to her mother.

The ring of pain in Lady Alice's voice saddened and even affrighted her. It suggested a passionate
yearning, an anxiety of love, which almost overwhelmed her. It is always alarming to a young
and simple nature to be brought suddenly into contact with a very strong emotion, either of
anguish, love, or joy.

"I suffered for my loss," Lady Alice went on, after a short pause. "But at first without knowing
that I suffered. There comes a time in every woman's life, Lesley, when she is in need of help
and counsel, when, in fact, she is in danger. As soon as a woman loves, she stands on the brink
of a precipice."

"I thought," murmured Lesley, "that love was the most beautiful thing in the world?"

