

I would keep this letter back for a post, that I might have but one trouble of sending you
Quebec too; but when one has taken so many places, it is not worth while to wait for one more.

Lord George Sackville, the hero of all conversation, if one can be so for not being a hero,
is arrived. He immediately applied for a Court-Martial, but was told it was impossible now,
as the officers necessary are in Germany. This was in writing from Lord Holdernesse--but Lord
Ligonier in words was more squab--"If he wanted a Court-Martial, he might go seek it in Germany."
All that could be taken from him, is, his regiment, above two thousand pounds a year: commander
in Germany at ten pounds a day, between three and four thousand pounds: lieutenant-general
of the ordnance, one thousand five hundred pounds: a fort, three hundred pounds. He remains
with a patent place in Ireland of one thousand two hundred pounds, and about two thousand pounds
a year of his own and wife's. With his parts and ambition it cannot end here; he calls himself
ruined, but when the Parliament meets, he will probably attempt some sort of revenge.

They attribute, I don't know with what grounds, a sensible kind of plan to the French; that
De la Clue was to have pushed for Ireland, Thurot for Scotland, and the Brest fleet for England--but
before they lay such great plans, they should take care of proper persons to execute them.[1]

[Footnote 1: De la Clue and the French were this year making unusual efforts to establish a
naval superiority over us, which they never had done, and never will do. As is mentioned in
this letter, one powerful fleet was placed under De la Clue, another under Conflans, and a
strong squadron under Commodore Thurot. De la Clue, however, for many weeks kept close in Toulon,
resisting every endeavour of Boscawen to tempt him out, till the English admiral was compelled
to retire to Gibraltar for the repair of some of his ships. De la Clue, not knowing which way
he had gone, thought he could steal through the Straits to join Conflans, according to his
original orders. But Boscawen caught him off Cape Lagos, and gave him a decisive defeat, capturing
five sail of the line, and among them the flagship L'Océan (80). Before the end of the year
Hawke almost destroyed the fleet of Conflans, capturing five and driving the rest on shore;
while Thurot, who at first had a gleam of success, making one or two descents on the northern
coast of Ireland, and even capturing Carrickfergus, had, in the end, worse fortune than either
of his superior officers, being overtaken at the mouth of Belfast Lough by Captain Elliott
with a squadron of nearly equal force, when the whole of the French squadron was taken and
he himself was killed (the Editor's "History of the British Navy," c. 12).]

I cannot help smiling at the great objects of our letters. We never converse on a less topic
than a kingdom. We are a kind of citizens of the world, and battles and revolutions are the
common incidents of our neighbourhood. But that is and must be the case of distant correspondences:
Kings and Empresses that we never saw, are the only persons we can be acquainted with in common.
We can have no more familiarity than the Daily Advertiser would have if it wrote to the Florentine
Gazette. Adieu! My compliments to any monarch that lives within five hundred miles of you.

A YEAR OF TRIUMPHS.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 21, 1759.

Your pictures shall be sent as soon as any of us go to London, but I think that will not be
till the Parliament meets. Can we easily leave the remains of such a year as this? It is still
all gold.[1] I have not dined or gone to bed by a fire till the day before yesterday. Instead
of the glorious and ever-memorable year 1759, as the newspapers call it, I call it this ever-warm
and victorious year. We have not had more conquest than fine weather: one would think we had
plundered East and West Indies of sunshine. Our bells are worn threadbare with ringing for
victories. I believe it will require ten votes of the House of Commons before people will believe
it is the Duke of Newcastle that has done this, and not Mr. Pitt. One thing is very fatiguing--all
the world is made knights or generals. Adieu! I don't know a word of news less than the conquest
of America. Adieu! yours ever.

[Footnote 1: The immediate cause of this exultation was the battle (September 14th) and subsequent
capture of Quebec. On the other side of the world Colonel Forde had inflicted severe defeats
on the French and Dutch, and had taken Masulipatam; and besides these triumphs there were our
naval successes mentioned in the last letter, and the battle of Minden.]

P.S.--You shall hear from me again if we take Mexico or China before Christmas.

2nd P.S.--I had sealed my letter, but break it open again, having forgot to tell you that Mr.
Cowslade has the pictures of Lord and Lady Cutts, and is willing to sell them.

FRENCH BANKRUPTCY--FRENCH EPIGRAM.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, Nov. 8, 1759.

Your pictures will set out on Saturday; I give you notice, that you may inquire for them. I
did not intend to be here these three days, but my Lord Bath taking the trouble to send a man
and horse to ask me to dinner yesterday, I did not know how to refuse; and besides, as Mr.
Bentley said to me, "you know he was an old friend of your father."

The town is empty, but is coming to dress itself for Saturday. My Lady Coventry showed George
Selwyn her clothes; they are blue, with spots of silver, of the size of a shilling, and a silver
trimming, and cost--my lord will know what. She asked George how he liked them; he replied,
"Why, you will be change for a guinea."

I find nothing talked of but the French bankruptcy;[1] Sir Robert Brown, I hear--and am glad
to hear--will be a great sufferer. They put gravely into the article of bankrupts in the newspaper,
"Louis le Petit, of the city of Paris, peace-breaker, dealer, and chapman;" it would have been
still better if they had said, "Louis Bourbon of petty France." We don't know what is become
of their Monsieur Thurot, of whom we had still a little mind to be afraid. I should think he
would do like Sir Thomas Hanmer, make a faint effort, beg pardon of the Scotch for their disappointment,
and retire. Here are some pretty verses just arrived.

    Pourquoi le baton à Soubise,
    Puisque Chevert est le vainqueur?[2]
    C'est de la cour une méprise,
    Ou bien le but de la faveur.
    Je ne vois rien là qui m'étonne,
    Repond aussitot un railleur;
    C'est à l'aveugle qu'on le donne,
    Et non pas au conducteur.

[Footnote 1: In 1759 M. Bertin was Finance Minister--the fourth who had held that office in
four years; and among his expedients for raising money he had been compelled to have recourse
to the measure of stopping the payment of the interest on a large portion of the National Debt.]

[Footnote 2: "Chevert est le vainqueur." He was one of the most brilliant officers in the French
army. It was he who, under the orders of Saxe, surprised Prague in 1744, and it was to him
that Maréchal d'Estrées was principally indebted for his victory of Hastenbeck.]

Lady Meadows has left nine thousand pounds in reversion after her husband to Lord Sandwich's
daughter. Apropos to my Lady Meadows's maiden name, a name I believe you have sometimes heard;
I was diverted t'other day with a story of a lady of that name,[1] and a lord, whose initial
is no farther from hers than he himself is sometimes supposed to be. Her postillion, a lad
of sixteen, said, "I am not such a child but I can guess something: whenever my Lord Lyttelton
comes to my lady, she orders the porter to let in nobody else, and then they call for a pen
and ink, and say they are going to write history." Is not this finesse so like him? Do you
know that I am persuaded, now he is parted, that he will forget he is married, and propose
himself in form to some woman or other.

[Footnote 1: Mrs. Montagu was the foundress of "The Blue-stocking Club." She was the authoress
of three "Dialogues of the Dead," to which Walpole is alluding here, and which she published
with some others by Lord Lyttelton.]

When do you come? if it is not soon, you will find a new town. I stared to-day at Piccadilly
like a country squire; there are twenty new stone houses: at first I concluded that all the
grooms, that used to live there, had got estates, and built palaces. One young gentleman, who
was getting an estate, but was so indiscreet as to step out of his way to rob a comrade, is
convicted, and to be transported; in short, one of the waiters at Arthur's. George Selwyn says,
"What a horrid idea he will give of us to the people in Newgate!"

I was still more surprised t'other day, than at seeing Piccadilly, by receiving a letter from
the north of Ireland from a clergyman, with violent encomiums on my "Catalogue of Noble Authors"--and
this when I thought it quite forgot. It puts me in mind of the queen[1] that sunk at Charing
Cross and rose at Queenhithe.

[Footnote 1: Queen Eleanor, wife of Edward I., who erected the cross at Charing, and others
at the different places where her body had stopped on the way from the North to Westminster.]

Mr. Chute has got his commission to inquire about your Cutts, but he thinks the lady is not
your grandmother. You are very ungenerous to hoard tales from me of your ancestry: what relation
have I spared? If your grandfathers were knaves, will your bottling up their bad blood mend
it? Do you only take a cup of it now and then by yourself, and then come down to your parson,
and boast of it, as if it was pure old metheglin? I sat last night with the Mater Gracchorum--oh!
'tis a Mater Jagorum; if her descendants taste any of her black blood, they surely will make
as wry faces at it as the servant in Don John does when the ghost decants a corpse. Good night!
I am just returning to Strawberry, to husband my two last days and to avoid all the pomp of
the birthday. Oh! I had forgot, there is a Miss Wynne coming forth, that is to be handsomer
than my Lady Coventry; but I have known one threatened with such every summer for these seven
years, and they are always addled by winter!

HE LIVES AMONGST ROYALTY--COMMOTIONS IN IRELAND.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 7, 1760.

You must not wonder I have not written to you a long time; a person of my consequence! I am
now almost ready to say, We, instead of I. In short, I live amongst royalty--considering the
plenty, that is no great wonder. All the world lives with them, and they with all the world.
Princes and Princesses open shops, in every corner of the town, and the whole town deals with
them. As I have gone to one, I chose to frequent all, that I might not be particular, and seem
to have views; and yet it went so much against me, that I came to town on purpose a month ago
for the Duke's levée, and had engaged Brand to go with me--and then could not bring myself
to it. At last, I went to him and Princess Emily yesterday. It was well I had not flattered
myself with being still in my bloom; I am grown so old since they saw me, that neither of them
knew me. When they were told, he just spoke to me (I forgive him; he is not out of my debt,
even with that): she was exceedingly gracious, and commended Strawberry to the skies. To-night,
I was asked to their party at Norfolk House. These parties are wonderfully select and dignified:
one might sooner be a knight of Malta than qualified for them; I don't know how the Duchess
of Devonshire, Mr. Fox, and I, were forgiven some of our ancestors. There were two tables at
loo, two at whist, and a quadrille. I was commanded to the Duke's loo; he was sat down: not
to make him wait, I threw my hat upon the marble table, and broke four pieces off a great crystal
chandelier. I stick to my etiquette, and treat them with great respect; not as I do my friend,
the Duke of York. But don't let us talk any more of Princes. My Lucan appears to-morrow; I
must say it is a noble volume. Shall I send it to you--or won't you come and fetch it?

There is nothing new of public, but the violent commotions in Ireland,[1] whither the Duke
of Bedford still persists in going. Aeolus to quell a storm!

[Footnote 1: "In 1759 reports that a Legislative Union was contemplated led to some furious
Protestant riots in Dublin. The Chancellor and some of the Bishops were violently attacked.
A judge in a law case warned the Roman Catholics that 'the laws did not presume a Papist to
exist in the kingdom'; nor could they breathe without the connivance of the Government" (Lecky,
"History of England," ii. 436). Gray, in a letter to Dr. Wharton, mentions that they forced
their way into the House of Lords, and "placed an old woman on the throne, and called for pipes
and tobacco." He especially mentions the Bishops of Killaloe and Waterford as exposed to ardent
ill-treatment, and concludes: "The notion that had possessed the crowd was that an union was
to be voted between the two nations, and they should have no more Parliaments in Dublin."]

I am in great concern for my old friend, poor Lady Harry Beauclerc; her lord dropped down dead
two nights ago, as he was sitting with her and all their children. Admiral Boscawen is dead
by this time. Mrs. Osborn[1] and I are not much afflicted: Lady Jane Coke too is dead, exceedingly
rich; I have not heard her will yet.

[Footnote 1: Boscawen had been a member of the court martial which had found Admiral Byng guilty.
Mrs. Osborn was Byng's sister.]

If you don't come to town soon, I give you warning, I will be a lord of the bedchamber, or
a gentleman usher. If you will, I will be nothing but what I have been so many years--my own
and yours ever.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 14, 1760.

How do you contrive to exist on your mountain in this rude season? Sure you must be become
a snowball! As I was not in England in forty-one, I had no notion of such cold. The streets
are abandoned; nothing appears in them: the Thames is almost as solid. Then think what a campaign
must be in such a season! Our army was under arms for fourteen hours on the twenty-third, expecting
the French; and several of the men were frozen when they should have dismounted. What milksops
the Marlboroughs and Turennes, the Blakes and the Van Tromps appear now, who whipped into winter
quarters and into port, the moment their noses looked blue. Sir Cloudesley Shovel said that
an admiral would deserve to be broke, who kept great ships out after the end of September,
and to be shot if after October. There is Hawke in the bay weathering this winter, after conquering
in a storm. For my part, I scarce venture to make a campaign in the Opera-house; for if I once
begin to freeze, I shall be frozen through in a moment. I am amazed, with such weather, such
ravages, and distress, that there is anything left in Germany, but money; for thither, half
the treasure of Europe goes: England, France, Russia, and all the Empress can squeeze from
Italy and Hungary, all is sent thither, and yet the wretched people have not subsistence. A
pound of bread sells at Dresden for eleven-pence. We are going to send many more troops thither;
and it is so much the fashion to raise regiments, that I wish there were such a neutral kind
of beings in England as abbés,[1] that one might have an excuse for not growing military mad,
when one has turned the heroic corner of one's age. I am ashamed of being a young rake, when
my seniors are covering their grey toupees with helmets and feathers, and accoutering their
pot-bellies with cuirasses and martial masquerade habits. Yet rake I am, and abominably so,
for a person that begins to wrinkle reverendly. I have sat up twice this week till between
two and three with the Duchess of Grafton, at loo, who, by the way, has got a pam-child this
morning, and on Saturday night I supped with Prince Edward at my Lady Rochford's, and we stayed
till half an hour past three. My favour with that Highness continues, or rather increases.
He makes everybody make suppers for him to meet me, for I still hold out against going to court.
In short, if he were twenty years older, or I could make myself twenty years younger, I might
carry him to Campden House, and be as impertinent as ever my Lady Churchill was; but, as I
dread being ridiculous, I shall give my Lord Bute no uneasiness. My Lady Maynard, who divides
the favour of this tiny court with me, supped with us. Did you know she sings French ballads
very prettily? Lord Rochford played on the guitar, and the Prince sung; there were my two nieces,
and Lord Waldegrave, Lord Huntingdon, and Mr. Morrison the groom, and the evening was pleasant;
but I had a much more agreeable supper last night at Mrs. Clive's, with Miss West, my niece
Cholmondeley, and Murphy, the writing actor, who is very good company, and two or three more.
Mrs. Cholmondeley is very lively; you know how entertaining the Clive is, and Miss West is
an absolute original.

[Footnote 1: French chroniclers remark that the title Abbé had long since ceased in France
to denote the possession of any ecclesiastical preferment, but had become a courteous denomination
of unemployed ecclesiastics; and they compare it to the use of the term "Esquire" in England.]

There is nothing new, but a very dull pamphlet written by Lord Bath, and his chaplain Douglas,
called a "Letter to Two Great Men." It is a plan for the peace, and much adopted by the City,
and much admired by all who are too humble to judge for themselves.

I was much diverted the other morning with another volume on birds by Edwards, who has published
four or five. The poor man, who is grown very old and devout, begs God to take from him the
love of natural philosophy; and having observed some heterodox proceedings among bantam cocks,
he proposes that all schools of girls and boys should be promiscuous, lest, if separated, they
should learn wayward passions. But what struck me most were his dedications, the last was to
God; this is to Lord Bute, as if he was determined to make his fortune in one world or the other.

Pray read Fontaine's fable of the lion grown old; don't it put you in mind of anything? No!
not when his shaggy majesty has borne the insults of the tiger and the horse, &c., and the
ass comes last, kicks out his only remaining fang, and asks for a blue bridle? Apropos, I will
tell you the turn Charles Townshend gave to this fable. "My lord," said he, "has quite mistaken
the thing; he soars too high at first: people often miscarry by not preceding by degrees; he
went and at once asked for my Lord Carlisle's garter--if he would have been contented to ask
first for my Lady Carlisle's garter, I don't know but he would have obtained it!" Adieu!

CAPTURE OF CARRICKFERGUS.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Feb. 28, 1760.

The next time you see Marshal Botta, and are to act King of Great Britain, France, and Ireland,
you must abate about a hundredth thousandth part of the dignity of your crown. You are no more
monarch of all Ireland, than King O'Neil, or King Macdermoch is. Louis XV. is sovereign of
France, Navarre, and Carrickfergus. You will be mistaken if you think the peace is made, and
that we cede this Hibernian town, in order to recover Minorca, or to keep Quebec and Louisbourg.
To be sure, it is natural you should think so: how should so victorious and heroic a nation
cease to enjoy any of its possessions, but to save Christian blood? Oh! I know you will suppose
there has been another insurrection, and that it is King John of Bedford, and not King George
of Brunswick, that has lost this town. Why, I own you are a great politician, and see things
in a moment--and no wonder, considering how long you have been employed in negotiations; but
for once all your sagacity is mistaken. Indeed, considering the total destruction of the maritime
force of France, and that the great mechanics and mathematicians of this age have not invented
a flying bridge to fling over the sea and land from the coast of France to the north of Ireland,
it was not easy to conceive how the French should conquer Carrickfergus--and yet they have.
But how I run on! not reflecting that by this time the old Pretender must have hobbled through
Florence on his way to Ireland, to take possession of this scrap of his recovered domains;
but I may as well tell you at once, for to be sure you and the loyal body of English in Tuscany
will slip over all this exordium to come to the account of so extraordinary a revolution. Well,
here it is. Last week Monsieur Thurot--oh! now you are au fait!--Monsieur Thurot, as I was
saying, landed last week in the isle of Islay, the capital province belonging to a great Scotch
King, who is so good as generally to pass the winter with his friends here in London. Monsieur
Thurot had three ships, the crews of which burnt two ships belonging to King George, and a
house belonging to his friend the King of Argyll--pray don't mistake; by his friend, I mean
King George's, not Thurot's friend. When they had finished this campaign, they sailed to Carrickfergus,
a poorish town, situate in the heart of the Protestant cantons. They immediately made a moderate
demand of about twenty articles of provisions, promising to pay for them; for you know it is
the way of modern invasions to make them cost as much as possible to oneself, and as little
to those one invades. If this was not complied with, they threatened to burn the town, and
then march to Belfast, which is much richer. We were sensible of this civil proceeding, and
not to be behindhand, agreed to it; but somehow or other this capitulation was broken; on which
a detachment (the whole invasion consists of one thousand men) attack the place. We shut the
gates, but after the battle of Quebec, it is impossible that so great a people should attend
to such trifles as locks and bolts, accordingly there were none--and as if there were no gates
neither, the two armies fired through them--if this is a blunder, remember I am describing
an Irish war. I forgot to give you the numbers of the Irish army. It consisted of four companies--indeed
they consisted but of seventy-two men, under Lieut.-colonel Jennings, a wonderful brave man--too
brave, in short, to be very judicious. Unluckily our ammunition was soon spent, for it is not
above a year that there have been any apprehensions for Ireland, and as all that part of the
country are most protestantly loyal, it was not thought necessary to arm people who would fight
till they die for their religion. When the artillery was silenced, the garrison thought the
best way of saving the town was by flinging it at the heads of the besiegers; according they
poured volleys of brickbats at the French, whose commander, Monsieur Flobert, was mortally
knocked down, and his troops began to give way. However, General Jennings thought it most prudent
to retreat to the castle, and the French again advanced. Four or five raw recruits still bravely
kept the gates, when the garrison, finding no more gunpowder in the castle than they had had
in the town, and not near so good a brick-kiln, sent to desire to surrender. General Thurot
accordingly made them prisoners of war, and plundered the town.

TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

STRAWBERRY HILL, April 4, 1760.

Sir,--As I have very little at present to trouble you with myself, I should have deferred writing
till a better opportunity, if it were not to satisfy the curiosity of a friend; a friend whom
you, Sir, will be glad to have made curious, as you originally pointed him out as a likely
person to be charmed with the old Irish poetry you sent me. It is Mr. Gray, who is an enthusiast
about those poems, and begs me to put the following queries to you; which I will do in his
own words, and I may say truly, Poeta loquitur.

"I am so charmed with the two specimens of Erse poetry, that I cannot help giving you the trouble
to inquire a little farther about them, and should wish to see a few lines of the original,
that I may form some slight idea of the language, the measure, and the rhythm.

"Is there anything known of the author or authors, and of what antiquity are they supposed to be?

"Is there any more to be had of equal beauty, or at all approaching to it?

"I have been often told, that the poem called Hardykanute[1] (which I always admired and still
admire) was the work of somebody that lived a few years ago. This I do not at all believe,
though it has evidently been retouched in places by some modern hand; but, however, I am authorised
by this report to ask, whether the two poems in question are certainly antique and genuine.
I make this inquiry in quality of an antiquary, and am not otherwise concerned about it; for
if I were sure that any one now living in Scotland had written them, to divert himself and
laugh at the credulity of the world, I would undertake a journey into the Highlands only for
the pleasure of seeing him."

[Footnote 1: "Hardyknute" was an especial favourite of Sir W. Scott. In his "Life of Mr. Lockhart"
he mentions having found in one of his books a mention that "he was taught 'Hardyknute' by
heart before he could read the ballad itself; it was the first poem he ever learnt, the last
he should ever forget" (c. 2). And in the very last year of his life, while at Malta, in a
discussion on ballads in general, "he greatly lamented his friend Mr. Frere's heresy in not
esteeming highly enough that of 'Hardyknute.' He admitted that it was not a veritable old ballad,
but 'just old enough,' and a noble imitation of the best style." In fact, it was the composition
of a lady, Mrs. Hachet, of Wardlaw.]

You see, Sir, how easily you may make our greatest southern bard travel northward to visit
a brother. The young translator has nothing to do but to own a forgery, and Mr. Gray is ready
to pack up his lyre, saddle Pegasus, and set out directly. But seriously, he, Mr. Mason, my
Lord Lyttelton, and one or two more, whose taste the world allows, are in love with your Erse
elegies: I cannot say in general they are so much admired--but Mr. Gray alone is worth satisfying.

The "Siege of Aquileia," of which you ask, pleased less than Mr. Home's other plays.[1] In
my own opinion, "Douglas" far exceeds both the other. Mr. Home seems to have a beautiful talent
for painting genuine nature and the manners of his country. There was so little of nature in
the manners of both Greeks and Romans, that I do not wonder at his success being less brilliant
when he tried those subjects; and, to say the truth, one is a little weary of them. I can conceive
a man saying that it would be droll to write a book in that manner, but have no notion of his
persevering in executing it. It makes one smile two or three times at the beginning, but in
recompense makes one yawn for two hours. The characters are tolerably kept up, but the humour
is for ever attempted and missed. The best thing in it is a Sermon, oddly coupled with a good
deal of coarseness, and both the composition of a clergyman. The man's head, indeed, was a
little turned before, now topsy-turvy with his success and fame. Dodsley has given him six
hundred and fifty pounds for the second edition and two more volumes (which I suppose will
reach backwards to his great-great-grandfather); Lord Fauconberg, a donative of one hundred
and sixty pounds a-year; and Bishop Warburton[3] gave him a purse of gold and this compliment
(which happened to be a contradiction), "that it was quite an original composition, and in
the true Cervantic vein:" the only copy that ever was an original, except in painting, where
they all pretend to be so. Warburton, however, not content with this, recommended the book
to the bench of bishops, and told them Mr. Sterne, the author, was the English Rabelais. They
had never heard of such a writer. Adieu!

[Footnote 1: "Mr. Home's other plays." Mr. Home was a Presbyterian minister. His first play
was "The Tragedy of Douglas," which D'Israeli describes as a drama which, "by awakening the
piety of domestic affections with the nobler passions, would elevate and purify the mind;"
and proceeds, with no little indignation, to relate how nearly it cost the author dear. The
"Glasgow divines, with the monastic spirit of the darkest ages, published a paper, which I
abridge for the contemplation of the reader, who may wonder to see such a composition written
in the eighteenth century: 'On Wednesday, February 2, 1757, the Presbytery of Glasgow came
to the following resolution: They, having seen a printed paper intituled an admonition and
exhortation of the reverend Presbytery of Edinburgh, which, among other evils prevailing, observed
the following melancholy but notorious facts, that one who is a minister of the Church of Scotland
did himself write and compose a stage play, intituled 'The Tragedy of Douglas,' and got it
to be acted at the theatre of Edinburgh; and that he, with several other ministers of the Church,
were present, and some of them oftener than once, at the acting of the said play before a numerous
audience. The presbytery being deeply affected with this new and strange appearance, do publish
these sentiments,'" &c., &c.--sentiments with which I will not disgust the reader.]

[Footnote 2: Walpole's criticism is worth preserving as a singular proof how far prejudice
can obscure the judgement of a generally shrewd observer, and it is the more remarkable since
he selects as its especial fault the failure of the author's attempts at humour; while all
other critics, from Macaulay to Thackeray, agree in placing it among those works in which the
humour is most conspicuous and most attractive. Even Johnson, when Boswell once, thinking perhaps
that his "illustrious friend" might be offended with its occasional coarseness, pronounced
Sterne to be "a dull fellow," was at once met with, "Why no, Sir."]

[Footnote 3: Bishop Warburton was Bishop of Gloucester, a prelate whose vast learning was in
some degree tarnished by unepiscopal violence of temper. He was a voluminous author; his most
important work being an essay on "The Divine Legation of Moses." In one of his letters to Garrick
he praises "Tristram Shandy" highly, priding himself on having recommended it to all the best
company in town.]

ERSE POETRY--"THE DIALOGUES OF THE DEAD"--"THE COMPLETE ANGLER."

TO SIR DAVID DALRYMPLE.

June 20, 1760.

I am obliged to you, Sir, for the volume of Erse poetry: all of it has merit; but I am sorry
not to see in it the six descriptions of night with which you favoured me before, and which
I like as much as any of the pieces. I can, however, by no means agree with the publisher,
that they seem to be parts of an heroic poem; nothing to me can be more unlike. I should as
soon take all the epitaphs in Westminster Abbey, and say it was an epic poem on the History
of England. The greatest part are evidently elegies; and though I should not expect a bard
to write by the rules of Aristotle, I would not, on the other hand, give to any work a title
that must convey so different an idea to every common reader. I could wish, too, that the authenticity
had been more largely stated. A man who knows Dr. Blair's character will undoubtedly take his
word; but the gross of mankind, considering how much it is the fashion to be sceptical in reading,
will demand proofs, not assertions.

I am glad to find, Sir, that we agree so much on "The Dialogues of the Dead;"[1] indeed, there
are very few that differ from us. It is well for the author, that none of his critics have
undertaken to ruin his book by improving it, as you have done in the lively little specimen
you sent me. Dr. Brown has writ a dull dialogue, called "Pericles and Aristides," which will
have a different effect from what yours would have. One of the most objectionable passages
in Lord Lyttelton's book is, in my opinion, his apologising for the moderate government of
Augustus. A man who had exhausted tyranny in the most lawless and unjustifiable excesses is
to be excused, because, out of weariness or policy, he grows less sanguinary at last!

[Footnote 1: "The Dialogues of the Dead" were by Lord Lyttelton. In an earlier letter Walpole
pronounces them "not very lively or striking."]

There is a little book coming out, that will amuse you. It is a new edition of Isaac Walton's
"Complete Angler,"[1] full of anecdotes and historic notes. It is published by Mr. Hawkins,[2]
a very worthy gentleman in my neighbourhood, but who, I could wish, did not think angling so
very innocent an amusement. We cannot live without destroying animals, but shall we torture
them for our sport--sport in their destruction? I met a rough officer at his house t'other
day, who said he knew such a person was turning Methodist; for, in the middle of conversation,
he rose, and opened the window to let out a moth. I told him I did not know that the Methodists
had any principle so good, and that I, who am certainly not on the point of becoming one, always
did so too. One of the bravest and best men I ever knew, Sir Charles Wager, I have often heard
declare he never killed a fly willingly. It is a comfortable reflection to me, that all the
victories of last year have been gained since the suppression of the Bear Garden and prize-fighting;
as it is plain, and nothing else would have made it so, that our valour did not singly and
solely depend upon these two Universities. Adieu!

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 1, 1760.

I was disappointed at your not being at home as I returned from my expedition.

My tour has been extremely agreeable. I set out with winning a good deal at Loo at Ragley;
the Duke of Grafton was not so successful, and had some high words with Pam. I went from thence
to Offley's at Whichnovre[1], the individual manor of the flitch of bacon, which has been growing
rusty for these thirty years in his hall. I don't wonder; I have no notion that one could keep
in good humour with one's wife for a year and a day, unless one was to live on the very spot,
which is one of the sweetest scenes I ever saw. It is the brink of a high hill; the Trent wriggles
through at the foot; Lichfield and twenty other churches and mansions decorate the view. Mr.
Anson has bought an estate [Shugborough] close by, whence my Lord used to cast many a wishful
eye, though without the least pretensions even to a bit of lard.

[Footnote 1: The manor of Whichnovre, near Lichfield, is held (like the better-known Dunmow,
in Essex) on the singular custom of the Lord of the Manor "keeping ready, all times of the
year but Lent, one bacon-flyke hanging in his hall, to be given to every man or woman who demanded
it a year and a day after marriage, upon their swearing that they would not have changed for
none other, fairer nor fouler, richer nor poorer, nor for no other descended of great lineage
sleeping nor waking at no time."]

I saw Lichfield Cathedral, which has been rich, but my friend Lord Brooke and his soldiery
treated poor St. Chad[1] with so little ceremony, that it is in a most naked condition. In
a niche at the very summit they have crowded a statue of Charles the Second, with a special
pair of shoe-strings, big enough for a weathercock. As I went to Lord Strafford's I passed
through Sheffield, which is one of the foulest towns in England in the most charming situation;
there are two-and-twenty thousand inhabitants making knives and scissors: they remit eleven
thousand pounds a week to London. One man there has discovered the art of plating copper with
silver; I bought a pair of candlesticks for two guineas that are quite pretty. Lord Strafford
has erected the little Gothic building, which I got Mr. Bentley to draw; I took the idea from
Chichester Cross. It stands on a high bank in the menagerie, between a pond and a vale, totally
bowered over with oaks. I went with the Straffords to Chatsworth and stayed there four days;
there were Lady Mary Coke, Lord Besborough and his daughters, Lord Thomond, Mr. Boufoy, the
Duke, the old Duchess, and two of his brothers. Would you believe that nothing was ever better
humoured than the ancient Grace? She stayed every evening till it was dark in the skittle-ground,
keeping the score; and one night, that the servants had a ball for Lady Dorothy's birthday,
we fetched the fiddler into the drawing-room, and the dowager herself danced with us! I never
was more disappointed than at Chatsworth,[2] which, ever since I was born, I have condemned.
It is a glorious situation; the vale rich in corn and verdure, vast woods hang down the hills,
which are green to the top, and the immense rocks only serve to dignify the prospect. The river
runs before the door, and serpentises more than you can conceive in the vale. The Duke is widening
it, and will make it the middle of his park; but I don't approve an idea they are going to
execute, of a fine bridge with statues under a noble cliff. If they will have a bridge (which
by the way will crowd the scene), it should be composed of rude fragments, such as the giant
of the Peak would step upon, that he might not be wetshod. The expense of the works now carrying
on will amount to forty thousand pounds. A heavy quadrangle of stables is part of the plan,
is very cumbrous, and standing higher than the house, is ready to overwhelm it. The principal
front of the house is beautiful, and executed with the neatness of wrought plate; the inside
is most sumptuous, but did not please me; the heathen gods, goddesses, Christian virtues, and
allegoric gentlefolks, are crowded into every room, as if Mrs. Holman had been in heaven and
invited everybody she saw. The great apartment is first; painted ceilings, inlaid floors, and
unpainted wainscots make every room sombre. The tapestries are fine, but not fine enough, and
there are few portraits. The chapel is charming. The great jet d'eau I like, nor would I remove
it; whatever is magnificent of the kind in the time it was done, I would retain, else all gardens
and houses wear a tiresome resemblance. I except that absurdity of a cascade tumbling down
marble steps, which reduces the steps to be of no use at all. I saw Haddon, an abandoned old
castle of the Rutlands, in a romantic situation, but which never could have composed a tolerable
dwelling. The Duke sent Lord John [Cavendish] with me to Hardwicke, where I was again disappointed;
but I will not take relations from others; they either don't see for themselves, or can't see
for me. How I had been promised that I should be charmed with Hardwicke,[3] and told that the
Devonshires ought to have established there! never was I less charmed in my life. The house
is not Gothic, but of that betweenity, that intervened when Gothic declined and Paladian was
creeping in--rather, this is totally naked of either. It has vast chambers--aye, vast, such
as the nobility of that time delighted in, and did not know how to furnish. The great apartment
is exactly what it was when the Queen of Scots was kept there. Her council-chamber, the council-chamber
of a poor woman, who had only two secretaries, a gentleman-usher, an apothecary, a confessor,
and three maids, is so outrageously spacious, that you would take it for King David's, who
thought, contrary to all modern experience, that in the multitude of counsellors there is wisdom.
At the upper end is the state, with a long table, covered with a sumptuous cloth, embroidered
and embossed with gold,--at least what was gold; so are all the tables. Round the top of the
chamber runs a monstrous frieze, ten or twelve feet deep, representing stag-hunting in miserable
plastered relief. The next is her dressing-room, hung with patch-work on black velvet; then
her state bedchamber. The bed has been rich beyond description, and now hangs in costly golden
tatters. The hangings, part of which they say her Majesty worked, are composed of figures as
large as life, sewed and embroidered on black velvet, white satin, &c., and represent the virtues
that were necessary for her, or that she was forced to have, as Patience and Temperance, &c.
The fire-screens are particular; pieces of yellow velvet, fringed with gold, hang on a cross-bar
of wood, which is fixed on the top of a single stick, that rises from the foot. The only furniture
which has any appearance of taste are the table and cabinets, which are all of oak, richly
carved. There is a private chamber within, where she lay, her arms and style over the door;
the arras hangs over all the doors; the gallery is sixty yards long, covered with bad tapestry,
and wretched pictures of Mary herself, Elizabeth in a gown of sea-monsters, Lord Darnley, James
the Fifth and his Queen, curious, and a whole history of Kings of England, not worth sixpence
a-piece. There is an original of old Bess of Hardwicke herself, who built the house. Her estates
were then reckoned at sixty thousand pounds a-year, and now let for two hundred thousand pounds.
Lord John Cavendish told me, that the tradition in the family is, that it had been prophesied
to her that she should never die as long as she was building; and that at last she died in
a hard frost, when the labourers could not work. There is a fine bank of old oaks in the park
over a lake; nothing else pleased me there. However, I was so diverted with this old beldam
and her magnificence, that I made this epitaph for her:--

    Four times the nuptial bed she warm'd,
    And every time so well perform'd,
    That when death spoil'd each husband's billing,
    He left the widow every shilling.
    Fond was the dame, but not dejected;
    Five stately mansions she erected
    With more than royal pomp, to vary
    The prison of her captive Mary.
    When Hardwicke's towers shall bow their head,
    Nor mass be more in Worksop said;
    When Bolsover's fair fame shall tend
    Like Olcotes, to its mouldering end;
    When Chatsworth tastes no Ca'ndish bounties,
    Let fame forget this costly countess.

[Footnote 1: Scott alludes to Lord Brooke's violation of St. Chad's Cathedral in "Marmion,"
whose tomb

    Was levelled when fanatic Brooke
    The fair cathedral stormed and took,
    But thanks to Heaven and good St. Chad
    A guerdon meet the spoiler had (c. vi. 36).

And the poet adds in a note that Lord Brooke himself, "who commanded the assailants, was shot
with a musket-ball through the visor of his helmet; and the royalists remarked that he was
killed by a shot fired from St. Chad's Cathedral on St. Chad's Day, and received his wound
in the very eye with which, he had said, he hoped to see the ruin of all the cathedrals in
England."]

[Footnote 2: "Disappointed with Chatsworth." In a letter, however, to Lord Strafford three
days afterwards he says: "Chatsworth surpassed his expectations; there is such richness and
variety of prospect."]

[Footnote 3: Hardwicke was one of what Home calls "the gentleman's houses," to which the unfortunate
Queen was removed between the times of her detention at Tutbury and Fotheringay. It is not
mentioned by Burton.]

As I returned, I saw Newstead[1] and Althorpe: I like both. The former is the very abbey. The
great east window of the church remains, and connects with the house; the hall entire, the
refectory entire, the cloister untouched, with the ancient cistern of the convent, and their
arms on it; a private chapel quite perfect. The park, which is still charming, has not been
so much unprofaned; the present Lord has lost large sums, and paid part in old oaks, five thousand
pounds of which have been cut near the house. In recompense he has built two baby forts, to
pay his country in castles for the damage done to the navy, and planted a handful of Scotch
firs, that look like ploughboys dressed in old family liveries for a public day. In the hall
is a very good collection of pictures, all animals; the refectory, now the great drawing-room,
is full of Byrons; the vaulted roof remaining, but the windows have new dresses making for
them by a Venetian tailor. Althorpe has several very fine pictures by the best Italian hands,
and a gallery of all one's acquaintance by Vandyke and Lely. I wonder you never saw it; it
is but six miles from Northampton. Well, good night; I have writ you such a volume, that you
see I am forced to page it. The Duke [of Cumberland] has had a stroke of the palsy, but is
quite recovered, except in some letters, which he cannot pronounce; and it is still visible
in the contraction of one side of his mouth. My compliments to your family.

[Footnote 1: Newstead, since Walpole's time immortalised as the seat of the illustrious Byron.
Evelyn had compared it, for its situation, to Fontainebleau, and particularly extolled "the
front of a glorious Abbey Church" and its "brave woods and streams;" and Byron himself has
given an elaborate description of it under the name of "Norman Abbey," not overlooking its woods:

      It stood embosomed in a happy valley
    Crowned by high woodlands, where the Druid-oak
      Stood like Caractacus in act to rally
    His host, with broad arms, 'gainst the thunderstroke--

nor the streams:

      Before the mansion lay a lucid lake
    Broad as transparent, deep, and freshly fed
      By a river, which its softened way did take
    In currents through the calmer waters spread
      Around--

nor the abbey front:

      A glorious remnant of the Gothic pile
    While yet the church was Rome's, stood half apart
      In a grand arch, which once screened many an angle.

("Don Juan," xiii.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, April 16, 1761.

You are a very mule; one offers you a handsome stall and manger in Berkeley Square, and you
will not accept it. I have chosen your coat, a claret colour, to suit the complexion of the
country you are going to visit; but I have fixed nothing about the lace. Barrett had none of
gauze, but what were as broad as the Irish Channel. Your tailor found a very reputable one
at another place, but I would not determine rashly; it will be two or three-and-twenty shillings
the yard; you might have a very substantial real lace, which would wear like your buffet, for
twenty. The second order of gauzes are frippery, none above twelve shillings, and those tarnished,
for the species is out of fashion. You will have time to sit in judgment upon these important
points; for Hamilton your secretary told me at the Opera two nights ago, that he had taken
a house near Bushy, and hoped to be in my neighbourhood for four months.

I was last night at your plump Countess's, who is so shrunk, that she does not seem to be composed
of above a dozen hassocs. Lord Guildford rejoiced mightily over your preferment. The Duchess
of Argyle was playing there, not knowing that the great Pam was just dead, to wit, her brother-in-law.
He was abroad in the morning, was seized with a palpitation after dinner and was dead before
the surgeon could arrive. There's the crown of Scotland too fallen upon my Lord Bute's head![1]
Poor Lord Edgecumbe is still alive, and may be so for some days; the physicians, who no longer
ago than Friday se'nnight persisted that he had no dropsy, in order to prevent his having Ward,
on Monday last proposed that Ward should be called in, and at length they owned they thought
the mortification begun. It is not clear it is yet; at times he is in his senses, and entirely
so, composed, clear, and rational; talks of his death, and but yesterday, after such a conversation
with his brother, asked for a pencil to amuse himself with drawing. What parts, genius, and
agreeableness thrown away at a hazard table, and not permitted the chance of being saved by
the villainy of physicians!

[Footnote 1: Lord Bute used his influence in favour of Scotchmen with so little moderation
that he raised a prejudice against the whole nation, which found a vent in Wilkes's North Briton
and Churchill's bitter and powerful satire, "The Prophecy of Famine."]

You will be pleased with the Anacreontic, written by Lord Middlesex upon Sir Harry Bellendine:
I have not seen anything so antique for ages; it has all the fire, poetry, and simplicity of
Horace.

    Ye sons of Bacchus, come and join
    In solemn dirge, while tapers shine
    Around the grape-embossed shrine
    Of honest Harry Bellendine.

    Pour the rich juice of Bourdeaux's wine,
    Mix'd with your falling tears of brine,
    In full libation o'er the shrine
    Of honest Harry Bellendine.

    Your brows let ivy chaplets twine,
    While you push round the sparkling wine,
    And let your table be the shrine
    Of honest Harry Bellendine.

He died in his vocation, of a high fever, after the celebration of some orgies. Though but
six hours in his senses, he gave a proof of his usual good humour, making it his last request
to the sister Tuftons to be reconciled; which they are. His pretty villa, in my neighbourhood,
I fancy he has left to the new Lord Lorn. I must tell you an admirable bon mot of George Selwyn,
though not a new one; when there was a malicious report that the eldest Tufton was to marry
Dr. Duncan, Selwyn said, "How often will she repeat that line of Shakspeare,

    Wake Duncan with this knocking--would thou couldst!"

I enclose the receipt from your lawyer. Adieu!

CAPTURE OF BELLEISLE--GRAY'S POEMS--HOGARTH'S VANITY.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

ARLINGTON STREET, May 5, 1761.

We have lost a young genius, Sir William Williams; an express from Belleisle, arrived this
morning, brings nothing but his death. He was shot very unnecessarily, riding too near a battery;
in sum, he is a sacrifice to his own rashness, and to ours. For what are we taking Belleisle?[1]
I rejoiced at the little loss we had on landing; for the glory, I leave it the common council.
I am very willing to leave London to them too, and do pass half the week at Strawberry, where
my two passions, lilacs and nightingales, are in full bloom. I spent Sunday as if it were Apollo's
birthday; Gray and Mason were with me, and we listened to the nightingales till one o'clock
in the morning. Gray has translated two noble incantations from the Lord knows who, a Danish
Gray, who lived the Lord knows when. They are to be enchased in a history of English bards,
which Mason and he are writing; but of which the former has not written a word yet, and of
which the latter, if he rides Pegasus at his usual footpace, will finish the first page two
years hence.

[Footnote 1: Belleisle was of no value to us to keep; but Pitt sent an expedition against it,
that in any future treaty of peace he might be able to exchange it for Minorca.]

But the true frantic Oestus resides at present with Mr. Hogarth; I went t'other morning to
see a portrait he is painting of Mr. Fox. Hogarth told me he had promised, if Mr. Fox would
sit as he liked, to make as good a picture as Vandyke or Rubens could. I was silent--"Why now,"
said he, "you think this very vain, but why should not one speak truth?" This truth was uttered
in the face of his own Sigismonda, which is exactly a maudlin street-walker, tearing off the
trinkets that her keeper had given her, to fling at his head. She has her father's picture
in a bracelet on her arm, and her fingers are bloody with the heart, as if she had just bought
a sheep's pluck in St. James's Market. As I was going, Hogarth put on a very grave face, and
said, "Mr. Walpole, I want to speak to you." I sat down, and said, I was ready to receive his
commands. For shortness, I will mark this wonderful dialogue by initial letters.

H. I am told you are going to entertain the town with something in our way. W. Not very soon,
Mr. Hogarth. H. I wish you would let me have it, to correct; I should be very sorry to have
you expose yourself to censure; we painters must know more of those things than other people.
W. Do you think nobody understands painting but painters? H. Oh! so far from it, there's Reynolds,
who certainly has genius; why, but t'other day he offered a hundred pounds for a picture, that
I would not hang in my cellar; and indeed, to say truth, I have generally found, that persons
who had studied painting least were the best judges of it; but what I particularly wished to
say to you was about Sir James Thornhill (you know he married Sir James's daughter): I would
not have you say anything against him; there was a book published some time ago, abusing him,
and it gave great offence. He was the first that attempted history in England, and, I assure
you, some Germans have said that he was a very great painter. W. My work will go no lower than
the year one thousand seven hundred, and I really have not considered whether Sir J. Thornhill
will come within my plan or not; if he does, I fear you and I shall not agree upon his merits.
H. I wish you would let me correct it; besides, I am writing something of the same kind myself;
I should be sorry we should clash. W. I believe it is not much known what my work is, very
few persons have seen it. H. Why, it is a critical history of painting, is not it? W. No, it
is an antiquarian history of it in England; I bought Mr. Vertue's MSS., and, I believe, the
work will not give much offence; besides, if it does, I cannot help it; when I publish anything,
I give it to the world to think of it as they please. H. Oh! if it is an antiquarian work,
we shall not clash; mine is a critical work; I don't know whether I shall ever publish it.
It is rather an apology for painters. I think it is owing to the good sense of the English
that they have not painted better. W. My dear Mr. Hogarth, I must take my leave of you, you
now grow too wild--and I left him. If I had stayed, there remained nothing but for him to bite
me. I give you my honour this conversation is literal, and, perhaps, as long as you have known
Englishmen and painters, you never met with anything so distracted. I had consecrated a line
to his genius (I mean, for wit) in my Preface; I shall not erase it; but I hope nobody will
ask me if he is not mad. Adieu!

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

STRAWBERRY HILL, July 22, 1761.

For my part, I believe Mademoiselle Scudéri[1] drew the plan of this year. It is all royal
marriages, coronations, and victories; they come tumbling so over one another from distant
parts of the globe, that it looks just like the handywork of a lady romance writer, whom it
costs nothing but a little false geography to make the Great Mogul in love with a Princess
of Mecklenburgh, and defeat two marshals of France[2] as he rides post on an elephant to his
nuptials. I don't know where I am. I had scarce found Mecklenburg Strelitz with a magnifying-glass
before I am whisked to Pondicherry--well, I take it, and raze it. I begin to grow acquainted
with Colonel Coote,[3] and figure him packing up chests of diamonds, and sending them to his
wife against the King's wedding--thunder go to the Tower guns, and behold, Broglie and Soubise
are totally defeated; if the mob have not much stronger heads and quicker conceptions than
I have, they will conclude my Lord Granby is become nabob. How the deuce in two days can one
digest all this? Why is not Pondicherry in Westphalia? I don't know how the Romans did, but
I cannot support two victories every week. Well, but you will want to know the particulars.
Broglie and Soubise united, attacked our army on the 15th, but were repulsed; the next day,
the Prince Mahomet Alli Cawn--no, no, I mean Prince Ferdinand, returned the attack, and the
French threw down their arms and fled, run over my Lord Harcourt, who was going to fetch the
new Queen; in short, I don't know how it was, but Mr. Conway is safe, and I am as happy as
Mr. Pitt himself. We have only lost a Lieutenant-colonel Keith; Colonel Marlay and Harry Townshend
are wounded.

[Footnote 1: Mdlle. Scudéri and her brother were writers of romances of enormous length, and,
in their time, of great popularity (see D'Israeli's account of them, "Curiosities of Literature,"
i. 105).]

[Footnote 2: "Defeat two French marshals"--they were Maréchal de Broglie and the Prince de
Soubise. The action, which, however, was of but little importance, is called by Lacretelle
"Le Combat de Fillingshausen."]

[Footnote 3: Colonel Eyre Coote, the best soldier next to Clive himself that India had yet
seen, had defeated the French Governor, Count Lally, at Wandewash in January, 1760; and the
capture of Pondicherry was one important fruit of the victory.]

I could beat myself for not having a flag ready to display on my round tower, and guns mounted
on all my battlements. Instead of that, I have been foolishly trying on my new pictures upon
my gallery. However, the oratory of our Lady of Strawberry shall be dedicated next year on
the anniversary of Mr. Conway's safety. Think with his intrepidity, and delicacy of honour
wounded, what I had to apprehend; you shall absolutely be here on the sixteenth of next July.
Mr. Hamilton tells me your King does not set out for his new dominions till the day after the
Coronation; if you will come to it, I can give you a very good place for the procession; where,
is a profound secret, because, if known, I should be teased to death, and none but my first
friends shall be admitted. I dined with your secretary [Single-speech Hamilton] yesterday;
there were Garrick and a young Mr. Burke[1]--who wrote a book in the style of Lord Bolingbroke,
that was much admired. He is a sensible man, but has not worn off his authorism yet, and thinks
there is nothing so charming as writers, and to be one. He will know better one of these days.
I like Hamilton's little Marly; we walked in the great allée, and drank tea in the arbour of
treillage; they talked of Shakspeare and Booth, of Swift and my Lord Bath, and I was thinking
of Madame Sévigné. Good night--I have a dozen other letters to write; I must tell my friends
how happy I am--not as an Englishman, but as a cousin.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Sept. 10, 1761.

When we least expected the Queen, she came, after being ten days at sea, but without sickness
for above half-an-hour. She was gay the whole voyage, sung to her harpsichord, and left the
door of her cabin open. They made the coast of Suffolk last Saturday, and on Monday morning
she landed at Harwich; so prosperously has his Majesty's chief eunuch, as they have made the
Tripoline ambassador call Lord Anson, executed his commission. She lay that night at your old
friend Lord Abercorn's, at Witham [in Essex]; and, if she judged by her host, must have thought
she was coming to reign in the realm of taciturnity. She arrived at St. James's a quarter after
three on Tuesday the 8th. When she first saw the Palace she turned pale: the Duchess of Hamilton
smiled. "My dear Duchess," said the Princess, "you may laugh; you have been married twice;
but it is no joke to me." Is this a bad proof of her sense? On the journey they wanted her
to curl her toupet. "No, indeed," said she, "I think it looks as well as those of the ladies
who have been sent for me: if the King would have me wear a periwig, I will; otherwise I shall
let myself alone." The Duke of York gave her his hand at the garden-gate: her lips trembled,
but she jumped out with spirit. In the garden the King met her; she would have fallen at his
feet; he prevented and embraced her, and led her into the apartments, where she was received
by the Princess of Wales and Lady Augusta: these three princesses only dined with the King.
At ten the procession went to chapel, preceded by unmarried daughters of peers, and peeresses
in plenty. The new Princess was led by the Duke of York and Prince William; the Archbishop
married them; the King talked to her the whole time with great good humour, and the Duke of
Cumberland gave her away. She is not tall, nor a beauty; pale, and very thin; but looks sensible;
and is genteel. Her hair is darkish and fine; her forehead low, her nose very well, except
the nostrils spreading too wide; her mouth has the same fault, but her teeth are good. She
talks a good deal, and French tolerably; possesses herself, is frank, but with great respect
to the King. After the ceremony, the whole company came into the drawing-room for about ten
minutes, but nobody was presented that night. The Queen was in white and silver; an endless
mantle of violet-coloured velvet, lined with ermine, and attempted to be fastened on her shoulder
by a bunch of large pearls, dragged itself and almost the rest of her clothes halfway down
her waist. On her head was a beautiful little tiara of diamonds; a diamond necklace, and a
stomacher of diamonds, worth three score thousand pounds, which she is to wear at the Coronation
too. Her train was borne by the ten bridesmaids, Lady Sarah Lenox,[1] Lady Caroline Russell,
Lady Caroline Montagu, Lady Harriot Bentinck, Lady Anne Hamilton, Lady Essex Kerr (daughters
of Dukes of Richmond, Bedford, Manchester, Portland, Hamilton, and Roxburgh); and four daughters
of the Earls of Albemarle, Brook, Harcourt, and Ilchester--Lady Elizabeth Keppel, Louisa Greville,
Elizabeth Harcourt, and Susan Fox Strangways: their heads crowned with diamonds, and in robes
of white and silver. Lady Caroline Russell is extremely handsome; Lady Elizabeth Keppel very
pretty; but with neither features nor air, nothing ever looked so charming as Lady Sarah Lenox;
she has all the glow of beauty peculiar to her family. As supper was not ready, the Queen sat
down, sung, and played on the harpsichord to the Royal Family, who all supped with her in private.
They talked of the different German dialects; the King asked if the Hanoverian was not pure--"Oh,
no, Sir," said the Queen; "it is the worst of all."--She will not be unpopular.

[Footnote 1: Lady Sarah Lennox, in an account of a theatrical performance at Holland House
in a previous letter, is described by Walpole as "more beautiful than you can conceive." The
King himself admired her so greatly that he is believed to have had serious thoughts of choosing
her to be his queen. She afterwards married Major G. Napier, and became the mother of Sir William
and Sir Charles Napier.]

The Duke of Cumberland told the King that himself and Lady Augusta were sleepy. The Queen was
very averse to leave the company, and at last articled that nobody should accompany her but
the Princess of Wales and her own two German women, and that nobody should be admitted afterwards
but the King--they did not retire till between two and three.

The next morning the King had a levée. He said to Lord Hardwicke, "It is a very fine day:"
that old gossip replied, "Yes, Sir, and it was a very fine night." Lord Bute had told the King
that Lord Orford had betted his having a child before Sir James Lowther, who had been married
the night before to Lord Bute's eldest daughter; the King told Lord Orford he should be glad
to go his halves. The bet was made with Mr. Rigby. Somebody asked the latter how he could be
so bad a courtier as to bet against the King? He replied, "Not at all a bad courtier; I betted
Lord Bute's daughter against him."

After the King's Levee there was a Drawing-room; the Queen stood under the throne: the women
were presented to her by the Duchess of Hamilton, and then the men by the Duke of Manchester;
but as she knew nobody, she was not to speak. At night there was a ball, drawing-rooms yesterday
and to-day, and then a cessation of ceremony till the Coronation, except next Monday, when
she is to receive the address of the Lord Mayor and Aldermen, sitting on the throne attended
by the bridesmaids. A ridiculous circumstance happened yesterday; Lord Westmoreland, not very
young nor clear-sighted, mistook Lady Sarah Lenox for the Queen, kneeled to her, and would
have kissed her hand if she had not prevented him. People think that a Chancellor of Oxford
was naturally attracted by the blood of Stuart. It is as comical to see Kitty Dashwood, the
famous old beauty of the Oxfordshire Jacobites, living in the palace as Duenna to the Queen.
She and Mrs. Boughton, Lord Lyttelton's ancient Delia, are revived again in a young court that
never heard of them. There, I think, you could not have had a more circumstantial account of
a royal wedding from the Heralds' Office. Adieu!

Yours to serve you,

HORACE SANDFORD.

Mecklenburgh King-at-Arms.

THE CORONATION AND SUBSEQUENT GAIETIES.

TO THE COUNTESS OF AILESBURY.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Sept. 27, 1761.

You are a mean, mercenary woman. If you did not want histories of weddings and coronations,
and had not jobs to be executed about muslins, and a bit of china, and counterband goods, one
should never hear of you. When you don't want a body, you can frisk about with greffiers and
burgomasters, and be as merry in a dyke as my lady frog herself. The moment your curiosity
is agog, or your cambric seized, you recollect a good cousin in England, and, as folks said
two hundred years ago, begin to write "upon the knees of your heart." Well! I am a sweet-tempered
creature, I forgive you.

My heraldry was much more offended at the Coronation with the ladies that did walk, than with
those that walked out of their place; yet I was not so perilously angry as my Lady Cowper,
who refused to set a foot with my Lady Macclesfield; and when she was at last obliged to associate
with her, set out on a round trot, as if she designed to prove the antiquity of her family
by marching as lustily as a maid of honour of Queen Gwiniver. It was in truth a brave sight.
The sea of heads in Palace-yard, the guards, horse and foot, the scaffolds, balconies, and
procession exceeded imagination. The Hall, when once illuminated, was noble; but they suffered
the whole parade to return into it in the dark, that his Majesty might be surprised with the
quickness with which the sconces catched fire. The Champion acted well; the other Paladins
had neither the grace nor alertness of Rinaldo. Lord Effingham and the Duke of Bedford were
but untoward knights errant; and Lord Talbot had not much more dignity than the figure of General
Monk in the Abbey. The habit of the peers is unbecoming to the last degree; but the peeresses
made amends for all defects. Your daughter Richmond, Lady Kildare, and Lady Pembroke were as
handsome as the Graces. Lady Rochford, Lady Holdernesse, and Lady Lyttelton looked exceedingly
well in that their day; and for those of the day before, the Duchess of Queensbury, Lady Westmoreland
and Lady Albemarle were surprising. Lady Harrington was noble at a distance, and so covered
with diamonds, that you would have thought she had bid somebody or other, like Falstaff, rob
me the Exchequer. Lady Northampton was very magnificent too, and looked prettier than I have
seen her of late. Lady Spencer and Lady Bolingbroke were not the worst figures there. The Duchess
of Ancaster [Mistress of the Robes] marched alone after the Queen with much majesty; and there
were two new Scotch peeresses that pleased everybody, Lady Sutherland and Lady Dunmore. Per
contra, were Lady P----, who had put a wig on, and old E----, who had scratched hers off; Lady
S----, the Dowager E----, and a Lady Say and Sele, with her tresses coal-black, and her hair
coal-white. Well! it was all delightful, but not half so charming as its being over. The gabble
one heard about it for six weeks before, and the fatigue of the day, could not well be compensated
by a mere puppet-show; for puppet-show it was, though it cost a million. The Queen is so gay
that we shall not want sights; she has been at the Opera, the Beggar's Opera and the Rehearsal,
and two nights ago carried the King to Ranelagh.

Some of the peeresses were so fond of their robes, that they graciously exhibited themselves
for a whole day before to all the company their servants could invite to see them. A maid from
Richmond begged leave to stay in town because the Duchess of Montrose was only to be seen from
two to four. The Heralds were so ignorant of their business, that, though pensioned for nothing
but to register lords and ladies, and what belongs to them, they advertised in the newspaper
for the Christian names and places of abode of the peeresses. The King complained of such omissions
and of the want of precedent; Lord Effingham, the Earl Marshal, told him, it was true there
had been great neglect in that office, but he had now taken such care of registering directions,
that next coronation would be conducted with the greatest order imaginable. The King was so
diverted with this flattering speech that he made the earl repeat it several times.

On this occasion one saw to how high-water-mark extravagance is risen in England. At the Coronation
of George II. my mother gave forty guineas for a dining-room, scaffold, and bedchamber. An
exactly parallel apartment, only with rather a worse view, was this time set at three hundred
and fifty guineas--a tolerable rise in thirty-three years! The platform from St. Margaret's
Roundhouse to the church-door, which formerly let for forty pounds, went this time for two
thousand four hundred pounds. Still more was given for the inside of the Abbey. The prebends
would like a Coronation every year. The King paid nine thousand pounds for the hire of jewels;
indeed, last time, it cost my father fourteen hundred to bejewel my Lady Orford.

A COURT BALL--PAMPHLETS ON MR. PITT--A SONG BY GRAY.

TO THE COUNTESS OF AILESBURY.

ARLINGTON STREET, Nov. 28, 1761.

Dear Madam,--You are so bad and so good, that I don't know how to treat you. You give me every
mark of kindness but letting me hear from you. You send me charming drawings the moment I trouble
you with a commission, and you give Lady Cecilia [Johnston] commissions for trifles of my writing,
in the most obliging manner. I have taken the latter off her hands. The Fugitive Pieces, and
the "Catalogue of Royal and Noble Authors" shall be conveyed to you directly. Lady Cecilia
and I agree how we lament the charming suppers there, every time we pass the corner of Warwick
Street! We have a little comfort for your sake and our own, in believing that the campaign
is at an end, at least for this year--but they tell us, it is to recommence here or in Ireland.
You have nothing to do with that. Our politics, I think, will soon be as warm as our war. Charles
Townshend is to be lieutenant-general to Mr. Pitt. The Duke of Bedford is privy seal; Lord
Thomond, cofferer; Lord George Cavendish, comptroller.

Diversions, you know, Madam, are never at high-water mark before Christmas; yet operas flourish
pretty well: those on Tuesdays are removed to Mondays, because the Queen likes the burlettas,
and the King cannot go on Tuesdays, his post-days. On those nights we have the middle front
box, railed in, where Lady Mary [Coke] and I sit in triste state like a Lord Mayor and Lady
Mayoress. The night before last there was a private ball at court, which began at half an hour
after six, lasted till one, and finished without a supper. The King danced the whole time with
the Queen,--Lady Augusta with her four younger brothers. The other performers were: the two
Duchesses of Ancaster and Hamilton, who danced little; Lady Effingham and Lady Egremont, who
danced much; the six maids of honour; Lady Susan Stewart, as attending Lady Augusta; and Lady
Caroline Russel, and Lady Jane Stuart, the only women not of the family. Lady Northumberland
is at Bath; Lady Weymouth lies in; Lady Bolingbroke was there in waiting, but in black gloves,
so did not dance. The men, besides the royals, were Lords March and Eglintoun, of the bedchamber;
Lord Cantelupe, vice-chamberlain; Lord Huntingdon; and four strangers, Lord Mandeville, Lord
Northampton, Lord Suffolk, and Lord Grey. No sitters-by, but the Princess, the Duchess of Bedford,
and Lady Bute.

If it had not been for this ball, I don't know how I should have furnished a decent letter.
Pamphlets on Mr. Pitt[1] are the whole conversation, and none of them worth sending cross the
water: at least I, who am said to write some of them, think so; by which you may perceive I
am not much flattered with the imputation. There must be new personages, at least, before I
write on any side.--Mr. Pitt and the Duke of Newcastle! I should as soon think of informing
the world that Miss Chudleigh is no vestal. You will like better to see some words which Mr.
Gray has writ, at Miss Speed's request, to an old air of Geminiani; the thought is from the French.

    I.

    Thyrsis, when we parted, swore
      Ere the spring he would return.
    Ah! what means yon violet flower,
      And the bud that decks the thorn!
    'Twas the lark that upward sprung,
    'Twas the nightingale that sung.

    II.

    Idle notes! untimely green!
      Why this unavailing haste!
    Western gales and skies serene
      Speak not always winter past.
    Cease my doubts, my fears to move;
    Spare the honour of my love.

Adieu, Madam, your most faithful servant.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 29, 1762.

I wish you joy, sir minister; the Czarina [Elizabeth] is dead. As we conquered America in Germany,[1]
I hope we shall overrun Spain by this burial at Petersburg. Yet, don't let us plume ourselves
too fast; nothing is so like a Queen as a King, nothing so like a predecessor as a successor.
The favourites of the Prince Royal of Prussia, who had suffered so much for him, were wofully
disappointed, when he became the present glorious Monarch; they found the English maxim true,
that the King never dies; that is, the dignity and passions of the Crown never die. We were
not much less defeated of our hopes on the decease of Philip V. The Grand Duke[2] [Peter III.]
has been proclaimed Czar at the army in Pomerania; he may love conquest like that army, or
not know it is conquering, like his aunt. However, we cannot suffer more by this event. I would
part with the Empress Queen, on no better a prospect.

[Footnote 1: "We conquered America in Germany." This is a quotation from a boastful speech
of Mr. Pitt's on the conquest of Canada.]

[Footnote 2: The Grand Duke (Peter III.) was married, for his misfortune, to Catharine, a princess
of Anhalt-Zerbzt, whose lover, Count Orloff, murdered him before the end of the summer, at
his wife's command; and in August she assumed the government, and was crowned with all due
solemnity as Czarina or Empress. Walpole had some reason for saying that "nothing was so like
a predecessor as a successor," since in character Elizabeth closely resembled Catharine.]

We have not yet taken the galleons, nor destroyed the Spanish fleet. Nor have they enslaved
Portugal, nor you made a triumphant entry into Naples. My dear sir, you see how lucky you were
not to go thither; you don't envy Sir James Grey, do you? Pray don't make any categorical demands
to Marshal Botta,[1] and be obliged to retire to Leghorn, because they are not answered. We
want allies; preserve us our friend the Great Duke of Tuscany. I like your answer to Botta
exceedingly, but I fear the Court of Vienna is shame-proof. The Apostolic and Religious Empress
is not a whit a better Christian, not a jot less a woman, than the late Russian Empress, who
gave such proofs of her being a woman.

[Footnote 1: Marshal Botta was the Commander-in-chief in Tuscany.]

We have a mighty expedition on the point of sailing; the destination not disclosed. The German
War loses ground daily; however, all is still in embryo. My subsequent letters are not likely
to be so barren, and indecisive. I write more to prove there is nothing, than to tell you anything.

You were mistaken, I believe, about the Graftons; they do not remove from Turin, till George
Pitt arrives to occupy their house there. I am really anxious about the fate of my letter to
the Duchess [of Grafton]; I should be hurt if it had miscarried; she would have reason to think
me very ungrateful.

I have given your letter to Mr. T[homas] Pitt; he has been very unfortunate since his arrival--has
lost his favourite sister in child-bed. Lord Tavistock, I hear, has written accounts of you
that give me much pleasure.

I am ashamed to tell you that we are again dipped into an egregious scene of folly. The reigning
fashion is a ghost[1]--a ghost, that would not pass muster in the paltriest convent in the
Apennine. It only knocks and scratches; does not pretend to appear or to speak. The clergy
give it their benediction; and all the world, whether believers or infidels, go to hear it.
I, in which number you may guess, go to-morrow; for it is as much the mode to visit the ghost
as the Prince of Mecklenburgh, who is just arrived. I have not seen him yet, though I have
left my name for him. But I will tell you who is come too--Lady Mary Wortley.[2] I went last
night to visit her; I give you my honour, and you who know her, would credit me without it,
the following is a faithful description. I found her in a little miserable bedchamber of a
ready-furnished house, with two tallow candles, and a bureau covered with pots and pans. On
her head, in full of all accounts, she had an old black-laced hood, wrapped entirely round,
so as to conceal all hair or want of hair. No handkerchief, but up to her chin a kind of horseman's
riding-coat, calling itself a pet-en-l'air, made of a dark green (green I think it had been)
brocade, with coloured and silver flowers, and lined with furs; boddice laced, a foul dimity
petticoat sprig'd, velvet muffeteens on her arms, grey stockings and slippers. Her face less
changed in twenty years than I could have imagined; I told her so, and she was not so tolerable
twenty years ago that she needed have taken it for flattery, but she did, and literally gave
me a box on the ear. She is very lively, all her senses perfect, her languages as imperfect
as ever, her avarice greater. She entertained me at first with nothing but the dearness of
provisions at Helvoet. With nothing but an Italian, a French, and a Prussian, all men servants,
and something she calls an old secretary, but whose age till he appears will be doubtful; she
receives all the world, who go to homage her as Queen Mother,[3] and crams them into this kennel.
The Duchess of Hamilton, who came in just after me, was so astonished and diverted, that she
could not speak to her for laughing. She says that she has left all her clothes at Venice.
I really pity Lady Bute; what will the progress be of such a commencement!

[Footnote 1: It was known as the Cock-lane Ghost. A girl in that lane asserted that she was
nightly visited by a ghost, who could reveal a murder, and who gave her tokens of his (or its)
presence by knocks and scratches, which were audible to others in the room besides herself;
and at last she went so far as to declare that the ghost had promised to attend a witness,
who might be selected, into the vault under the Church of St. John's, Clerkenwell, where the
body of the supposed victim was buried. Her story caused such excitement, that at last Dr.
Johnson, Dr. Douglas (afterwards Bishop of Salisbury), and one or two other gentlemen, undertook
an investigation of the affair, which proved beyond all doubt that it was a trick, though they
could not discover how it was performed, nor could they make the girl confess; and Johnson
wrote an account of their investigations and verdict, which was published in The Gentleman's
Magazine and the newspapers of the day (Boswell's "Life of Johnson," ann. 1763).]

[Footnote 2: Lady Mary Wortley was a daughter of the Duke of Kingston and wife of Mr. Wortley,
our ambassador at Constantinople. She was the most accomplished lady of the eighteenth century.
Christian Europe is indebted to her for the introduction of the practice of inoculation for
the smallpox, of which she heard during her residence in Turkey, and of the efficacy of which
she was so convinced that she caused her own children to be inoculated; and, by publishing
its success in their case, she led to its general adoption. It saved innumerable lives in the
eighteenth century, and was, in fact, the parent of the vaccination which has superseded it,
and which is merely inoculation with matter derived from another source, the cow. She was also
an authoress of considerable repute for lyric odes and vers de société, &c., and, above all,
for her letters, most of which are to her daughter, Lady Bute (as Mme. de Sévigné's are to
her daughter, Mme. de Grignan), and which are in no respect inferior to those of the French
lady in sprightly wit, while in the variety of their subjects they are far superior, as giving
the account of Turkish scenery and manners, and also of those of other countries which her
husband visited on various diplomatic missions, while Mme. de Sévigné's are for the greater
part confined to the gossip of the coteries of Paris. Her works occupy five volumes; but what
we have is but a small part of what we might have had. D'Israeli points out that "we have lost
much valuable literature by the illiberal or malignant descendants of learned and ingenious
persons. Many of Lady Mary Wortley Montague's letters have been destroyed, I am informed, by
her daughters, who imagined that the family honours were lowered by the addition of those of
literature. Some of her best letters, recently published, were found buried in an old trunk.
It would have mortified her ladyship's daughter to have heard that her mother was the Sévigné
of Britain" ("Curiosities of Literature," i. 54); and, as will be seen in a subsequent letter
(No. 67), Walpole corroborates D'Israeli. Lady Mary was at one time a friend and correspondent
of Pope, who afterwards, for some unknown reason, quarrelled with her, and made her the subject
of some of the most disgraceful libels that ever proceeded from even his pen.]

[Footnote 3: She was mother of Lady Bute, wife of the Prime Minister.--WALPOLE.]

The King of France has avowed a natural son,[1] and given him the estate which came from Marshal
Belleisle, with the title of Comte de Gisors. The mother I think is called Matignon or Maquignon.
Madame Pompadour was the Bathsheba that introduced this Abishag. Adieu, my dear sir!

TO THE REV. HENRY ZOUCH.

ARLINGTON STREET, March 20, 1762.

I am glad you are pleased, Sir, with my "Anecdotes of Painting;" but I doubt you praise me
too much: it was an easy task when I had the materials collected, and I would not have the
labours of forty years, which was Vertue's case, depreciated in compliment to the work of four
months, which is almost my whole merit. Style is become, in a manner, a mechanical affair,
and if to much ancient lore our antiquaries would add a little modern reading, to polish their
language and correct their prejudices, I do not see why books of antiquities should not be
made as amusing as writings on any other subject. If Tom Hearne had lived in the world, he
might have writ an agreeable history of dancing; at least, I am sure that many modern volumes
are read for no reason but for their being penned in the dialect of the age.

I am much beholden to you, dear Sir, for your remarks; they shall have their due place whenever
the work proceeds to a second edition, for that the nature of it as a record will ensure to
it. A few of your notes demand a present answer: the Bishop of Imola pronounced the nuptial
benediction at the marriage of Henry VII., which made me suppose him the person represented.[1]

[Footnote 1: In a previous letter Walpole mentions that Vertue (the engraver) had disputed
the subject of this picture, because the face of the King did not resemble other pictures of
him; but Walpole was convinced of the correctness of his description of it, because it does
resemble the face on Henry's shillings, "which are more authentic than pictures."]

Burnet, who was more a judge of characters than statues, mentions the resemblance between Tiberius
and Charles II.; but, as far as countenances went, there could not be a more ridiculous prepossession;
Charles had a long face, with very strong lines, and a narrowish brow; Tiberius a very square
face, and flat forehead, with features rather delicate in proportion. I have examined this
imaginary likeness, and see no kind of foundation for it. It is like Mr. Addison's Travels,[1]
of which it was so truly said, he might have composed them without stirring out of England.
There are a kind of naturalists who have sorted out the qualities of the mind, and allotted
particular turns of features and complexions to them. It would be much easier to prove that
every form has been endowed with every vice. One has heard much of the vigour of Burnet himself;
yet I dare to say, he did not think himself like Charles II.

[Footnote 1: It is Fielding who, in his "Voyage to Lisbon," gave this character to Addison's
"Travels."]

I am grieved, Sir, to hear that your eyes suffer; take care of them; nothing can replace the
satisfaction they afford: one should hoard them, as the only friend that will not be tired
of one when one grows old, and when one should least choose to depend on others for entertainment.
I most sincerely wish you happiness and health in that and every other instance.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Aug. 12, 1762.

A Prince of Wales [George IV.] was born this morning; the prospect of your old neighbour [the
Pretender] at Rome does not improve; the House of Hanover will have numbers in its own family
sufficient to defend their crown--unless they marry a Princess of Anhalt Zerbst. What a shocking
tragedy that has proved already! There is a manifesto arrived to-day that makes one shudder!
This northern Athaliah, who has the modesty not to name her murdered husband in that light,
calls him her neighbour; and, as if all the world were savages, like Russians, pretends that
he died suddenly of a distemper that never was expeditious; mocks Heaven with pretensions to
charity and piety; and heaps the additional inhumanity on the man she has dethroned and assassinated,
of imputing his death to a judgment from Providence. In short, it is the language of usurpation
and blood, counselled and apologised for by clergymen! It is Brunehault[1] and an archbishop!

[Footnote 1: Brunehault (in modern English histories called Brunhild) was the wife of Sigebert,
King of Austrasia (that district of France which lies between the Meuse and the Rhine) and
son of Clotaire I. The "Biographie Universelle" says of her: "This Princess, attractive by
her beauty, her wit, and her carriage, had the misfortune to possess a great ascendency over
her husband, and to have lost sight of the fact that even sovereigns cannot always avenge themselves
with impunity." Her sister, Galswith, the wife of Chilperic, King of Neustria, between the
Loire and the Meuse, had been assassinated by Fredegonde, and Brunehault, determined to avenge
her, induced Sigebert to make war on Chilperic, who had married Fredegonde. He gained a victory;
but Fredegonde contrived to have him also assassinated, and Brunehault became Fredegonde's
prisoner. But Murovée, son of Chilperic, fell in love with her, and married her, and escaping
from Rouen, fled into Austrasia. At last, in 595, Fredegonde died, and Brunehault subdued the
greater part of Neustria, and ruled with great but unscrupulous energy. She encouraged St.
Augustine in his mission to England; she built hospitals and churches, earning by her zeal
in such works a letter of panegyric from Pope Gregory the Great. But, old as she was, she at
the same time gave herself up to a life of outrageous license. It was not, however, her dissolute
life which proved fatal to her, but the design which she showed to erect a firm monarchy in
Austrasia and Neustria, by putting down the overgrown power of the nobles. They raised an army
to attack her; she was defeated, and with four of her great-grandchildren, the sons of her
grandson, King Theodoric, who had been left to her guardianship, fell into the hands of the
nobles, who put her to death with every circumstance of cruelty and indignity. (See Kitchin's
"History of France," i. 91.)]

I have seen Mr. Keith's first despatch; in general, my account was tolerably correct; but he
does not mention Ivan. The conspiracy advanced by one of the gang being seized, though for
another crime; they thought themselves discovered. Orloff, one of them, hurried to the Czarina,
and told her she had no time to lose. She was ready for anything; nay, marched herself at the
head of fourteen thousand men and a train of artillery against her husband, but not being the
only Alecto in Muscovy, she had been aided by a Princess Daschkaw, a nymph under twenty, and
sister to the Czar's mistress. It was not the latter, as I told you, but the Chancellor's wife,
who offered up the order of St. Catherine. I do not know how my Lord Buckingham [the English
Minister at St. Petersburg] feels, but unless to conjure up a tempest against this fury of
the north, nothing could bribe me to set my foot in her dominions. Had she been priestess of
the Scythian Diana, she would have sacrificed her brother by choice. It seems she does not
degenerate; her mother was ambitious and passionate for intrigues; she went to Paris, and dabbled
in politics with all her might.

The world had been civilising itself till one began to doubt whether ancient histories were
not ancient legends. Voltaire had unpoisoned half the victims to the Church and to ambition.
Oh! there never was such a man as Borgia[1]; the league seemed a romance. For the honour of
poor historians, the assassinations of the Kings of France and Portugal, majesties still living
in spite of Damien and the Jesuits, and the dethronement and murder of the Czar, have restored
some credibility to the annals of former ages. Tacitus recovers his character by the edition
of Petersburg.

[Footnote 1: Borgia, the father, was Pope Sextus VI.; Caesar Borgia was the son--both equally
infamous for their crimes, and especially their murders by poison.]

We expect the definitive courier from Paris every day. Now it is said that they ask time to
send to Spain. What? to ask leave to desert them! The Spaniards, not so expeditious in usurpation
as the Muscovites, have made no progress in Portugal. Their absurd manifestoes appeared too
soon. The Czarina and Princess Daschkaw stay till the stroke is struck. Really, my dear Sir,
your Italy is growing unfashionably innocent,--if you don't take care, the Archbishop of Novgorod
will deserve, by his crimes, to be at the head of the Christian Church.[1] I fear my friend,
good Benedict, infected you all with his virtues.

[Footnote 1: That is, Pope Benedict XIV.]

You see how this Russian revolution has seized every cell in my head--a Prince of Wales is
passed over in a line, the peace in another line. I have not even told you that the treasure
of the Hermione,[1] reckoned eight hundred thousand pounds, passed the end of my street this
morning in one-and-twenty waggons. Of the Havannah I could tell you nothing if I would; people
grow impatient at not hearing from thence. Adieu!

[Footnote 1: In August, 1761, Sir G. Pocock took Havannah, the capital of Cuba. In September
Commodore Cornish and Colonel Draper took Manilla, the principal of the Philippine Islands;
and the treasures found in Manilla alone exceeded the sum here mentioned by Walpole, and yet
did not equal those brought home from the Havannah, as Walpole mentions in a subsequent letter.]

You see I am a punctual correspondent when Empresses commit murders.

NEGOTIATIONS FOR PEACE--CHRISTENING OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Sept. 9, 1762.

    Nondum laurus erat, longoque decentia crine
    Tempora cingebat de quâlibet arbore Phoebus.[1]

[Footnote 1: The quotation is from Ovid, Met. i. 450.]

This is a hint to you, that as Phoebus, who was certainly your superior, could take up with
a chestnut garland, or any crown he found, you must have the humility to be content without
laurels, when none are to be had: you have hunted far and near for them, and taken true pains
to the last in that old nursery-garden Germany, and by the way have made me shudder with your
last journal: but you must be easy with quâlibet other arbore; you must come home to your own
plantations. The Duke of Bedford is gone in a fury to make peace,[1] for he cannot be even
pacific with temper; and by this time I suppose the Duke de Nivernois is unpacking his portion
of olive dans la rue de Suffolk Street. I say, I suppose--for I do not, like my friends at
Arthur's, whip into my post-chaise to see every novelty. My two sovereigns, the Duchess of
Grafton and Lady Mary Coke, are arrived, and yet I have seen neither Polly nor Lucy. The former,
I hear, is entirely French; the latter as absolutely English.

[Footnote 1: "On the 6th of September the Duke of Bedford embarked as ambassador from England;
on the 12th the Duc de Nivernois landed as ambassador from France. Of these two noblemen, Bedford,
though well versed in affairs, was perhaps by his hasty temper in some degree disqualified
for the profession of a Temple or a Gondomar; and Nivernois was only celebrated for his graceful
manners and his pretty songs" (Lord Stanhope, "History of England," c. 38).]

Well! but if you insist on not doffing your cuirass, you may find an opportunity of wearing
it. The storm thickens. The City of London are ready to hoist their standard; treason is the
bon-ton at that end of the town; seditious papers pasted up at every corner: nay, my neighbourhood
is not unfashionable; we have had them at Brentford and Kingston. The Peace is the cry;[1]
but to make weight, they throw in all the abusive ingredients they can collect. They talk of
your friend the Duke of Devonshire's resigning; and, for the Duke of Newcastle, it puts him
so much in mind of the end of Queen Anne's time, that I believe he hopes to be Minister again
for another forty years.

[Footnote 1: "The Peace is the cry." This was the peace of Paris, not absolutely concluded
till February of the next year. The conditions in our favour were so inadequate to our successes
in the war, that the treaty caused general indignation; so great, indeed, that Lord Bute, the
Prime Minister, was afraid to face the meeting of Parliament, and resigned his office, in which
he was succeeded by Mr. George Grenville. It was the subject of severe, but not undeserved
comment in the celebrated North Briton, No. 45, by Wilkes.]

In the mean time, there are but dark news from the Havannah; the Gazette, who would not fib
for the world, says, we have lost but four officers; the World, who is not quite so scrupulous,
says, our loss is heavy.--But what shocking notice to those who have Harry Conways there! The
Gazette breaks off with saying, that they were to storm the next day! Upon the whole, it is
regarded as a preparative to worse news.

Our next monarch [George IV.] was christened last night, George Augustus Frederick; the Princess,
the Duke of Cumberland, and Duke of Mecklenburgh, sponsors; the ceremony performed by the Bishop
of London. The Queen's bed, magnificent, and they say in taste, was placed in the great drawing-room:
though she is not to see company in form, yet it looks as if they had intended people should
have been there, as all who presented themselves were admitted, which were very few, for it
had not been notified; I suppose to prevent too great a crowd: all I have heard named, besides
those in waiting, were the Duchess of Queensberry, Lady Dalkeith, Mrs. Grenville, and about
four more ladies.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 3, 1762.

I am now only the peace in your debt, for here is the Havannah. Here it is, following despair
and accompanied by glory, riches, and twelve ships-of-the-line; not all in person, for four
are destroyed. The booty--that is an undignified term--I should say, the plunder, or the spoils,
which is a more classic word for such heroes as we are, amounts to at least a million and a
half. Lord Albemarle's share will be about £140,000. I wish I knew how much that makes in talents
or great sesterces. What to me is better than all, we have lost but sixteen hundred men; but,
alas! Most of the sick recovered! What an affecting object my Lady Albemarle would make in
a triumph, surrounded by her three victorious sons; for she had three at stake! My friend Lady
Hervey,[1] too, is greatly happy; her son Augustus distinguished himself particularly, brought
home the news, and on his way took a rich French ship going to Newfoundland with military stores.
I do not surely mean to detract from him, who set all this spirit on float, but you see we
can conquer, though Mr. Pitt is at his plough.

[Footnote 1: Lady Hervey, the widow of Pope's Lord Fanny and Sporus, had been the beautiful
"Molly Lepel," celebrated by Lord Chesterfield.

    Had I Hanover, Bremen, and Verden
      And likewise the Duchy of Zell,
    I would part with them all for a farden,
      Compared with sweet Molly Lepel.

Three of her sons succeeded to the Earldom of Bristol.]

The express arrived while the Duke de Nivernois was at dinner with Lord Bute. The world says,
that the joy of the company showed itself with too little politeness--I hope not; I would not
exult to a single man, and a minister of peace; it should be in the face of Europe, if I assumed
that dominion which the French used to arrogate; nor do I believe it happened; all the company
are not so charmed with the event. They are not quite convinced that it will facilitate the
pacification, nor am I clear it will. The City of London will not lower their hopes, and views,
and expectations, on this acquisition. Well, if we can steer wisely between insolence from
success and impatience for peace, we may secure our safety and tranquillity for many years.
But they are not yet arrived, nor hear I anything that tells me the peace will certainly be
made. France wants peace; I question if she wishes it. How his Catholic royalty will take this,
one cannot guess. My good friend, we are not at table with Monsieur de Nivernois, so we may
smile at this consequence of the family-compact. Twelve ships-of-the-line and the Havannah!--it
becomes people who cannot keep their own, to divide the world between them!

Your nephew Foote has made a charming figure; the King and Queen went from Windsor to see Eton;
he is captain of the Oppidans, and made a speech to them with great applause. It was in English,
which was right; why should we talk Latin to our Kings rather than Russ or Iroquois? Is this
a season for being ashamed of our country? Dr. Barnard, the master, is the Pitt of masters,
and has raised the school to the most flourishing state it ever knew.

Lady Mary Wortley[1] has left twenty-one large volumes in prose and verse, in manuscript; nineteen
are fallen to Lady Bute, and will not see the light in haste. The other two Lady Mary in her
passage gave to somebody in Holland, and at her death expressed great anxiety to have them
published. Her family are in terrors lest they should be, and have tried to get them: hitherto
the man is inflexible. Though I do not doubt but they are an olio of lies and scandal, I should
like to see them. She had parts, and had seen much. Truth is often at bottom of such compositions,
and places itself here and there without the intention of the mother. I dare say in general,
these works are like Madame del Pozzo's Memoires. Lady Mary had more wit, and something more
delicacy; their manners and morals were a good deal more alike.

[Footnote 1: In a note to this letter, subsequently added by Walpole, he reduces this statement
to seventeen, saying: "It was true that Lady Mary did leave seventeen volumes of her works
and memories. She gave her letters from Constantinople to Mr. Sowden, minister of the English
Church at Rotterdam, who published them; and, the day before she died, she gave him those seventeen
volumes, with injunctions to publish them too; but in two days the man had a crown living from
Lord Bute, and Lady Bute had the seventeen volumes."]

There is a lad, a waiter at St. James's coffee-house, of thirteen years old, who says he does
not wonder we beat the French, for he himself could thrash Monsieur de Nivernois. This duke
is so thin and small, that when minister at Berlin, at a time that France was not in favour
there, the King of Prussia said, if his eyes were a little older, he should want a glass to
see the embassador. I do not admire this bon-mot. Voltaire is continuing his "Universal History";
he showed the Duke of Grafton a chapter, to which the title is, Les Anglois vainqueurs dans
les Quatres Parties du Monde. There have been minutes in the course of our correspondence when
you and I did not expect to see this chapter. It is bigger by a quarter than our predecessors
the Romans had any pretensions to, and larger than I hope our descendants will see written
of them, for conquest, unless by necessity, as ours has been, is an odious glory; witness my hand

H. WALPOLE.

P.S.--I recollect that my last letter was a little melancholy; this, to be sure, has a grain
or two of national vanity; why, I must own I am a miserable philosopher; the weather of the
hour does affect me. I cannot here, at a distance from the world and unconcerned in it, help
feeling a little satisfaction when my country is successful; yet, tasting its honours and elated
with them, I heartily, seriously wish they had their quietus. What is the fame of men compared
to their happiness? Who gives a nation peace, gives tranquillity to all. How many must be wretched,
before one can be renowned! A hero bets the lives and fortunes of thousands, whom he has no
right to game with: but alas! Caesars have little regard to their fish and counters!

RESIGNATION OF LORD BUTE--FRENCH VISITORS--WALPOLE AND NO. 45.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, April 30, 1763.

The papers have told you all the formal changes; the real one consists solely in Lord Bute
being out of office, for, having recovered his fright, he is still as much Minister as ever,
and consequently does not find his unpopularity decrease. On the contrary, I think his situation
more dangerous than ever: he has done enough to terrify his friends, and encourage his enemies,
and has acquired no new strength; rather has lost strength, by the disappearance of Mr. Fox
from the scene. His deputies, too, will not long care to stand all the risk for him, when they
perceive, as they must already, that they have neither credit nor confidence. Indeed the new
administration is a general joke, and will scarce want a violent death to put an end to it.
Lord Bute is very blamable for embarking the King so deep in measures that may have so serious
a termination. The longer the Court can stand its ground, the more firmly will the opposition
be united, and the more inflamed. I have ever thought this would be a turbulent reign, and
nothing has happened to make me alter my opinion.

Mr. Fox's exit has been very unpleasant. He would not venture to accept the Treasury, which
Lord Bute would have bequeathed to him; and could not obtain an earldom, for which he thought
he had stipulated; but some of the negotiators asserting that he had engaged to resign the
Paymaster's place, which he vehemently denies, he has been forced to take up with a barony,
and has broken with his associates--I do not say friends, for with the chief of them[1] he
had quarrelled when he embarked in the new system. He meets with little pity, and yet has found
as much ingratitude as he had had power of doing service.

[Footnote 1: "The chief of them." Walpole himself explains in a note that he means the Dukes
of Cumberland and Devonshire.]

I am glad you are going to have a great duke; it will amuse you, and a new Court will make
Florence lively, the only beauty it wants. You divert me with my friend the Duke of Modena's
conscientious match: if the Duchess had outlived him, she would not have been so scrupulous.
But, for Hymen's sake, who is that Madame Simonetti? I trust, not that old painted, gaming,
debauched Countess from Milan, whom I saw at the fair of Reggio!

I surprise myself with being able to write two pages of pure English; I do nothing but deal
in broken French. The two nations are crossing over and figuring-in. We have had a Count d'Usson
and his wife these six weeks; and last Saturday arrived a Madame de Boufflers, sçavante, galante,
a great friend of the Prince of Conti, and a passionate admirer de nous autres Anglois. I am
forced to live much with tout ça, as they are perpetually at my Lady Hervey's; and as my Lord
Hertford goes ambassador to Paris, where I shall certainly make him a visit next year--don't
you think I shall be computing how far it is to Florence? There is coming, too, a Marquis de
Fleury,[1] who is to be consigned to me, as a political relation, vû l'amitié entre le Cardinal
son oncle et feu monsieur mon père. However, as my cousin Fleury is not above six-and-twenty,
I had much rather be excused from such a commission as showing the Tombs and the Lions, and
the King and Queen, and my Lord Bute, and the Waxwork, to a boy. All this breaks in upon my
plan of withdrawing by little and little from the world, for I hate to tire it with an old
lean face, and which promises to be an old lean face for thirty years longer, for I am as well
again as ever. The Duc de Nivernois called here the other day in his way from Hampton Court;
but, as the most sensible French never have eyes to see anything, unless they see it every
day and see it in fashion, I cannot say he flattered me much, or was much struck with Strawberry.
When I carried him into the Cabinet, which I have told you is formed upon the idea of a Catholic
chapel, he pulled off his hat, but perceiving his error, he said, "Ce n'est pas une chapelle
pourtant," and seemed a little displeased.

[Footnote 1: Cardinal Fleury, Prime Minister of France from 1727 to 1742. Pope celebrated his
love of peace--

    Peace is my dear delight, not Fleury's more;

and by his resolute maintenance of peace during the first seven years of his administration
he had so revived the resources and restored the power of his country, that when the question
of going to war with France was discussed in the Council of Vienna the veteran Prince Eugene
warned the Ministers that his wise and prudent administration had been so beneficial to his
country that the Empire was no longer a match for it.]

My poor niece [Lady Waldegrave] does not forget her Lord, though by this time I suppose the
world has. She has taken a house here, at Twickenham, to be near me. Madame de Boufflers has
heard so much of her beauty, that she told me she should be glad to peep through a grate anywhere
to get a glimpse of her,--but at present it would not answer. I never saw so great an alteration
in so short a period; but she is too young not to recover her beauty, only dimmed by grief
that must be temporary. Adieu! my dear Sir.

Monday, May 2nd, ARLINGTON STREET.

The plot thickens: Mr. Wilkes is sent to the Tower for the last North Briton;[1] a paper whose
fame must have reached you. It said Lord Bute had made the King utter a gross falsehood in
his last speech. This hero is as bad a fellow as ever hero was, abominable in private life,
dull in Parliament, but, they say, very entertaining in a room, and certainly no bad writer,
besides having had the honour of contributing a great deal to Lord Bute's fall. Wilkes fought
Lord Talbot in the autumn, whom he had abused; and lately in Calais, when the Prince de Croy,
the Governor, asked how far the liberty of the press extended in England, replied, I cannot
tell, but I am trying to know. I don't believe this will be the only paragraph I shall send
you on this affair.

TO GEORGE MONTAGU, ESQ.

STRAWBERRY HILL, May 17, 1763.

"On vient de nous donner une très jolie fête au château de Straberri: tout étoit tapissé de
narcisses, de tulipes, et de lilacs; des cors de chasse, des clarionettes; des petits vers
galants faits par des fées, et qui se trouvoient sous la presse; des fruits à la glace, du
thé, du caffé, des biscuits, et force hot-rolls."--This is not the beginning of a letter to
you, but of one that I might suppose sets out to-night for Paris, or rather, which I do not
suppose will set out thither; for though the narrative is circumstantially true, I don't believe
the actors were pleased enough with the scene, to give so favourable an account of it.

The French do not come hither to see. À l'Anglaise happened to be the word in fashion; and
half a dozen of the most fashionable people have been the dupes of it. I take for granted that
their next mode will be à l'Iroquaise, that they may be under no obligation of realising their
pretensions. Madame de Boufflers[1] I think will die a martyr to a taste, which she fancied
she had, and finds she has not. Never having stirred ten miles from Paris, and having only
rolled in an easy coach from one hotel to another on a gliding pavement, she is already worn
out with being hurried from morning till night from one sight to another. She rises every morning
so fatigued with the toils of the preceding day, that she has not strength, if she had inclination,
to observe the least, or the finest thing she sees! She came hither to-day to a great breakfast
I made for her, with her eyes a foot deep in her head, her hands dangling, and scarce able
to support her knitting-bag. She had been yesterday to see a ship launched, and went from Greenwich
by water to Ranelagh. Madame Dusson, who is Dutch-built, and whose muscles are pleasure-proof,
came with her; there were besides, Lady Mary Coke, Lord and Lady Holdernesse, the Duke and
Duchess of Grafton, Lord Hertford, Lord Villiers, Offley, Messieurs de Fleury, D'Eon,[2] et
Duclos.[3] The latter is author of the Life of Louis Onze; dresses like a dissenting minister,
which I suppose is the livery of a bel esprit, and is much more impetuous than agreeable. We
breakfasted in the great parlour, and I had filled the hall and large cloister by turns with
French horns and clarionettes. As the French ladies had never seen a printing-house, I carried
them into mine; they found something ready set, and desiring to see what it was, it proved
as follows:--

The Press speaks--

FOR MADAME DE BOUFFLERS.

    The graceful fair, who loves to know,
    Nor dreads the north's inclement snow;
    Who bids her polish'd accent wear
    The British diction's harsher air;
    Shall read her praise in every clime
    Where types can speak or poets rhyme.

FOR MADAME DUSSON.

    Feign not an ignorance of what I speak;
    You could not miss my meaning were it Greek:
    'Tis the same language Belgium utter'd first,
    The same which from admiring Gallia burst.
    True sentiment a like expression pours;
    Each country says the same to eyes like yours. (vol. ii., ann. 1775.)]

[Footnote 2: This gentleman was at this time secretary to the Duc de Nivernois. For many years
he dressed in woman's clothes, and the question of his sex was made the subject of many wagers
and trials both in England and France.]

[Footnote 3: M. Duclos was an author of good repute as a novelist, and one of the contributors
to the "Dictionnaire de l'Academie."]

You will comprehend that the first speaks English, and that the second does not; that the second
is handsome, and the first not; and that the second was born in Holland. This little gentilesse
pleased, and atoned for the popery of my house, which was not serious enough for Madame de
Boufflers, who is Montmorency, et du sang du premier Chrétien; and too serious for Madame Dusson,
who is a Dutch Calvinist. The latter's husband was not here, nor Drumgold, who have both got
fevers, nor the Duc de Nivernois, who dined at Claremont. The Gallery is not advanced enough
to give them any idea at all, as they are not apt to go out of their way for one; but the Cabinet,
and the glory of yellow glass at top, which had a charming sun for a foil, did surmount their
indifference, especially as they were animated by the Duchess of Grafton, who had never happened
to be here before, and who perfectly entered into the air of enchantment and fairyism, which
is the tone of the place, and was peculiarly so to-day--apropos, when do you design to come
hither? Let me know, that I may have no measures to interfere with receiving you and your grandsons.

Before Lord Bute ran away, he made Mr. Bentley[1] a Commissioner of the Lottery; I don't know
whether a single or a double one: the latter, which I hope it is, is two hundred a-year.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Bentley, who was an occasional correspondent of Walpole, was a son of the
great Master of Trinity College, Cambridge.]

Thursday 19th.

I am ashamed of myself to have nothing but a journal of pleasures to send you; I never passed
a more agreeable day than yesterday. Miss Pelham gave the French an entertainment at Esher;[1]
but they have been so feasted and amused, that none of them were well enough, or reposed enough,
to come, but Nivernois and Madame Dusson. The rest of the company were, the Graftons, Lady
Rockingham, Lord and Lady Pembroke, Lord and Lady Holdernesse, Lord Villiers, Count Woronzow
the Russian minister, Lady Sondes, Mr. and Miss Mary Pelham, Lady Mary Coke, Mrs. Anne Pitt,
and Mr. Shelley. The day was delightful, the scene transporting; the trees, lawns, concaves,
all in the perfection in which the ghost of Kent[2] would joy to see them. At twelve we made
the tour of the farm in eight chaises and calashes, horsemen, and footmen, setting out like
a picture of Wouverman's. My lot fell in the lap of Mrs. Anne Pitt, which I could have excused,
as she was not at all in the style of the day, romantic, but political. We had a magnificent
dinner, cloaked in the modesty of earthenware; French horns and hautboys on the lawn. We walked
to the Belvidere on the summit of the hill, where a theatrical storm only served to heighten
the beauty of the landscape, a rainbow on a dark cloud falling precisely behind the tower of
a neighbouring church, between another tower and the building at Claremont. Monsieur de Nivernois,
who had been absorbed all day, and lagging behind, translating my verses, was delivered of
his version, and of some more lines which he wrote on Miss Pelham in the Belvidere, while we
drank tea and coffee. From thence we passed into the wood, and the ladies formed a circle on
chairs before the mouth of the cave, which was overhung to a vast height with woodbines, lilacs,
and laburnums, and dignified by the tall shapely cypresses. On the descent of the hill were
placed the French horns; the abigails, servants, and neighbours wandering below by the river;
in short, it was Parnassus, as Watteau would have painted it. Here we had a rural syllabub,
and part of the company returned to town; but were replaced by Giardini and Onofrio, who with
Nivernois on the violin, and Lord Pembroke on the bass, accompanied Miss Pelham, Lady Rockingham,
and the Duchess of Grafton, who sang. This little concert lasted till past ten; then there
were minuets, and as we had seven couple left, it concluded with a country dance. I blush again,
for I danced, but was kept in countenance by Nivernois, who has one wrinkle more than I have.
A quarter after twelve they sat down to supper, and I came home by a charming moonlight. I
am going to dine in town, and to a great ball with fireworks at Miss Chudleigh's, but I return
hither on Sunday, to bid adieu to this abominable Arcadian life; for really when one is not
young, one ought to do nothing but s'ennuyer; I will try, but I always go about it awkwardly.
Adieu!

[Footnote 1: "Esher." Claremont, at Esher, now the property of the Queen, and residence of
the Duchess of Albany, at this time belonged to the Duke of Newcastle, Miss Pelham's uncle.]

[Footnote 2: Kent was the great landscape gardener of the last generation.]

P.S.--I enclose a copy of both the English and French verses.

    À MADAME DE BOUFFLERS.

    Boufflers, qu'embellissent les graces,
    Et qui plairoit sans le vouloir,
    Elle à qui l'amour du sçavoir
    Fit braver le Nord et les glaces;
    Boufflers se plait en nos vergers,
    Et veut à nos sons étrangers
    Plier sa voix enchanteresse.
    Répétons son nom mille fois,
    Sur tous les coeurs Boufflers aura des droits,
    Par tout où la rime et la Presse
    A l'amour prêteront leur voix.

    À MADAME D'USSON.

    Ne feignez point, Iris, de ne pas nous entendre;
    Ce que vous inspirez, en Grec doit se comprendre.
      On vous l'a dit d'abord en Hollandois,
      Et dans un langage plus tendre
      Paris vous l'a répété mille fois.
      C'est de nos coeurs l'expression sincere;
    En tout climat, Iris, à toute heure, en tous lieux,
      Par tout où brilleront vos yeux,
    Vous apprendrez combien ils sçavent plaire.

GENERAL CHARACTER OF THE FRENCH--FESTIVITIES ON THE QUEEN'S BIRTHDAY.

TO THE HON. H.S. CONWAY.

ARLINGTON STREET, May 21, 1763.

You have now seen the celebrated Madame de Boufflers. I dare say you could in that short time
perceive that she is agreeable, but I dare say too that you will agree with me that vivacity[1]
is by no means the partage of the French--bating the étourderie of the mousquetaires and of
a high-dried petit-maítre or two, they appear to me more lifeless than Germans. I cannot comprehend
how they came by the character of a lively people. Charles Townshend has more sal volatile
in him than the whole nation. Their King is taciturnity itself, Mirepoix was a walking mummy,
Nivernois has about as much life as a sick favourite child, and M. Dusson is a good-humoured
country gentleman, who has been drunk the day before, and is upon his good behaviour. If I
have the gout next year, and am thoroughly humbled by it again, I will go to Paris, that I
may be upon a level with them: at present, I am trop fou to keep them company. Mind, I do not
insist that, to have spirits, a nation should be as frantic as poor Fanny Pelham, as absurd
as the Duchess of Queensberry, or as dashing as the Virgin Chudleigh.[2] Oh, that you had been
at her ball t'other night! History could never describe it and keep its countenance. The Queen's
real birthday, you know, is not kept: this Maid of Honour kept it--nay, while the Court is
in mourning, expected people to be out of mourning; the Queen's family really was so, Lady
Northumberland having desired leave for them. A scaffold was erected in Hyde-park for fireworks.
To show the illuminations without to more advantage, the company were received in an apartment
totally dark, where they remained for two hours.--If they gave rise to any more birthdays,
who could help it? The fireworks were fine, and succeeded well. On each side of the court were
two large scaffolds for the Virgin's tradespeople. When the fireworks ceased, a large scene
was lighted in the court, representing their Majesties; on each side of which were six obelisks,
painted with emblems, and illuminated; mottoes beneath in Latin and English: 1. For the Prince
of Wales, a ship, Multorum spes. 2. For the Princess Dowager, a bird of paradise, and two little
ones, Meos ad sidera tollo. People smiled. 3. Duke of York, a temple, Virtuti et honori. 4.
Princess Augusta, a bird of paradise, Non habet parem--unluckily this was translated, I have
no peer. People laughed out, considering where this was exhibited. 5. The three younger princes,
an orange tree, Promittit et dat. 6. The two younger princesses, the flower crown-imperial.
I forget the Latin: the translation was silly enough, Bashful in youth, graceful in age. The
lady of the house made many apologies for the poorness of the performance, which she said was
only oil-paper, painted by one of her servants; but it really was fine and pretty. The Duke
of Kingston was in a frock, comme chez lui. Behind the house was a cenotaph for the Princess
Elizabeth, a kind of illuminated cradle; the motto, All the honours the dead can receive. This
burying-ground was a strange codicil to a festival; and, what was more strange, about one in
the morning, this sarcophagus burst out into crackers and guns. The Margrave of Anspach began
the ball with the Virgin. The supper was most sumptuous.

[Footnote 1: In a subsequent letter he represents Mme. de Boufflers as giving them the same
character, saying, "Dans ce pays-ci c'est un effort perpetuel pour sedivertir."]

[Footnote 2: Miss Chudleigh, who had been one of the Princess Dowager's maids of honour, married
Mr. Hervey, afterwards Earl of Bristol, but, having taken a dislike to him, she procured a
divorce, and afterwards married the Duke of Kingston; but, after his death, his heirs, on the
ground of some informality in the divorce, prosecuted her for bigamy, and she was convicted.]

You ask, when do I propose to be at Park-place. I ask, shall not you come to the Duke of Richmond's
masquerade, which is the 6th of June? I cannot well be with you till towards the end of that month.

The enclosed is a letter which I wish you to read attentively, to give me your opinion upon
it, and return it. It is from a sensible friend of mine in Scotland [Sir David Dalrymple],
who has lately corresponded with me on the enclosed subjects, which I little understand; but
I promised to communicate his ideas to George Grenville, if he would state them--are they practicable?
I wish much that something could be done for those brave soldiers and sailors, who will all
come to the gallows, unless some timely provision can be made for them.--The former part of
his letter relates to a grievance he complains of, that men who have not served are admitted
into garrisons, and then into our hospitals, which were designed for meritorious sufferers. Adieu!

TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD.

ARLINGTON STREET, Dec. 29, 1763

You are sensible, my dear lord, that any amusement from my letters must depend upon times and
seasons. We are a very absurd nation (though the French are so good at present as to think
us a very wise one, only because they, themselves, are now a very weak one); but then that
absurdity depends upon the almanac. Posterity, who will know nothing of our intervals, will
conclude that this age was a succession of events. I could tell them that we know as well when
an event, as when Easter, will happen. Do but recollect these last ten years. The beginning
of October, one is certain that everybody will be at Newmarket, and the Duke of Cumberland
will lose, and Shafto win, two or three thousand pounds. After that, while people are preparing
to come to town for the winter, the Ministry is suddenly changed, and all the world comes to
learn how it happened, a fortnight sooner than they intended; and fully persuaded that the
new arrangement cannot last a month. The Parliament opens; everybody is bribed; and the new
establishment is perceived to be composed of adamant. November passes, with two or three self-murders,
and a new play. Christmas arrives; everybody goes out of town; and a riot happens in one of
the theatres. The Parliament meets again; taxes are warmly opposed; and some citizen makes
his fortune by a subscription. The opposition languishes; balls and assemblies begin; some
master and miss begin to get together, are talked of, and give occasion to forty more matches
being invented; an unexpected debate starts up at the end of the session, that makes more noise
than anything that was designed to make a noise, and subsides again in a new peerage or two.
Ranelagh opens and Vauxhall; one produces scandal, and t'other a drunken quarrel. People separate,
some to Tunbridge, and some to all the horse-races in England; and so the year comes again
to October. I dare to prophesy, that if you keep this letter, you will find that my future
correspondence will be but an illustration of this text; at least, it is an excuse for my having
very little to tell you at present, and was the reason of my not writing to you last week.

Before the Parliament adjourned, there was nothing but a trifling debate in an empty House,
occasioned by a motion from the Ministry, to order another physician and surgeon to attend
Wilkes:[1] it was carried by about seventy to thirty, and was only memorable by producing Mr.
Charles Townshend, who, having sat silent through the question of privilege, found himself
interested in the defence of Dr. Brocklesby![2] Charles ridiculed Lord North extremely, and
had warm words with George Grenville. I do not look upon this as productive of consequential
speaking for the opposition; on the contrary, I should expect him sooner in place, if the Ministry
could be fools enough to restore weight to him, and could be ignorant that he can never hurt
them so much as by being with them. Wilkes refused to see Heberden and Hawkins, whom the House
commissioned to visit him; and to laugh at us more, sent for two Scotchmen, Duncan and Middleton.
Well! but since that, he is gone off himself: however, as I did in D'Eon's case, I can now
only ask news of him from you, not tell you any; for you have got him. I do not believe you
will invite him, and make so much of him, as the Duke of Bedford did. Both sides pretend joy
at his being gone; and for once I can believe both. You will be diverted, as I was, at the
cordial esteem the ministers have for one another; Lord Waldegrave told my niece [Lady Waldegrave],
this morning, that he had offered a shilling, to receive a hundred pounds when Sandwich shall
lose his head! what a good opinion they have of one another! apropos to losing heads, is Lally[3]
beheaded?

[Footnote 1: Wilkes had been wounded in a duel, and alleged his wound as a sufficient reason
for not attending in his place in the House of Commons when summoned. Dr. Brocklesby, a physician
of considerable eminence, reported that he was unable to attend; but the House of Commons,
as if they distrusted his report, appointed two other physicians to examine the patient, Drs.
Heberden and Hawkins.]

[Footnote 2: Dr. Brocklesby is mentioned by Boswell as an especial friend of Johnson; having
even offered him an annuity of £100 to relieve him from the necessity of writing to increase
his income.]

[Footnote 3: Count Lally, of an Irish family, his father or grandfather having been among those
who, after the capitulation of Limerick, accompanied the gallant Sarsfield to France, had been
the French governor in India; but, having failed in an attempt on Madras, and having been afterwards
defeated at Wandewash by Colonel Coote, was recalled in disgrace, and brought to trial on a
number of ridiculously false charges, convicted, and executed; his real offence being that
by a somewhat intemperate zeal for the reformation of abuses, and the punishment of corruption
which he detested, he had made a great number of personal enemies. He was the father of Count
Lally Tollendal, who was a prominent character in the French Revolution.]

The East India Company have come to an unanimous resolution of not paying Lord Clive the three
hundred thousand pounds, which the Ministry had promised him in lieu of his Nabobical annuity.
Just after the bargain was made, his old rustic of a father was at the King's levée; the King
asked where his son was; he replied, "Sire, he is coming to town, and then your Majesty will
have another vote." If you like these franknesses, I can tell you another. The Chancellor [Northington]
is a chosen governor of St. Bartholomew's Hospital: a smart gentleman, who was sent with the
staff, carried it in the evening, when the Chancellor happened to be drunk. "Well, Mr. Bartlemy,"
said his lordship, snuffing, "what have you to say?" The man, who had prepared a formal harangue,
was transported to have so fair opportunity given him of uttering it, and with much dapper
gesticulation congratulated his lordship on his health, and the nation on enjoying such great
abilities. The Chancellor stopped him short, crying, "By God, it is a lie! I have neither health
nor abilities; my bad health has destroyed my abilities."[1] The late Chancellor [Hardwicke]
is much better.

[Footnote 1: Lord Northington had been a very hard liver. He was a martyr to the gout; and
one afternoon, as he was going downstairs out of his Court, he was heard to say to himself,
"D--- these legs! If I had known they were to carry a Lord Chancellor, I would have taken better
care of them;" and it was to relieve himself of the labours of the Court of Chancery that he
co-operated with Mr. Pitt in the discreditable intrigue which in the summer of 1766 compelled
the resignation of Lord Rockingham, Mr. Pitt having promised him the office of President of
the Council in the new Ministry which he intended to form.]

The last time the King was at Drury-lane, the play given out for the next night was "All in
the Wrong:" the galleries clapped, and then cried out, "Let us be all in the right! Wilkes
and Liberty!" When the King comes to a theatre, or goes out, or goes to the House, there is
not a single applause; to the Queen there is a little: in short, Louis le bien aimé[1] is not
French at present for King George.

[Footnote 1: "Le Bien aimé" was a designation conferred on Louis XV. by the people in their
joy at his recovery from an illness which had threatened his life at Metz in 1744. Louis himself
was surprised, and asked what he had done to deserve such a title; and, in truth, it was a
question hard to answer; but it was an expression of praise for his leaving the capital to
accompany his army in the campaign.]

I read, last night, your new French play, "Le Comte de Warwic,"[1] which we hear has succeeded
much. I must say, it does but confirm the cheap idea I have of you French: not to mention the
preposterous perversion of history in so known a story, the Queen's ridiculous preference of
old Warwick to a young King; the omission of the only thing she ever said or did in her whole
life worth recording, which was thinking herself too low for his wife, and too high for his
mistress; the romantic honour bestowed on two such savages as Edward and Warwick: besides these,
and forty such glaring absurdities, there is but one scene that has any merit, that between
Edward and Warwick in the third act. Indeed, indeed, I don't honour the modern French: it is
making your son but a slender compliment, with his knowledge, for them to say it is extraordinary.
The best proof I think they give of their taste, is liking you all three. I rejoice that your
little boy is recovered. Your brother has been at Park-place this week, and stays a week longer:
his hill is too high to be drowned.

[Footnote 1: "Le Comte de Warwic" was by La Harpe, who was only twenty-three years of age.
The answer here attributed to Elizabeth Woodville has been attributed to others also; and especially
to Mdlle. de Montmorency, afterwards Princesse de Condé, when pursued by the solicitations
of Henry IV.]

Thank you for your kindness to Mr. Selwyn: if he had too much impatience, I am sure it proceeded
only from his great esteem for you.

I will endeavour to learn what you desire; and will answer, in another letter, that and some
other passages in your last. Dr. Hunter is very good, and calls on me sometimes. You may guess
whether we talk you over or not. Adieu!

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 11, 1764.

It is an age, I own, since I wrote to you: but except politics, what was there to send you?
and for politics, the present are too contemptible to be recorded by anybody but journalists,
gazetteers, and such historians! The ordinary of Newgate, or Mr. ----, who write for their
monthly half-crown, and who are indifferent whether Lord Bute, Lord Melcombe, or Maclean [the
highwayman], is their hero, may swear they find diamonds on dunghills; but you will excuse
me, if I let our correspondence lie dormant rather than deal in such trash. I am forced to
send Lord Hertford and Sir Horace Mann such garbage, because they are out of England, and the
sea softens and makes palatable any potion, as it does claret; but unless I can divert you,
I had rather wait till we can laugh together; the best employment for friends, who do not mean
to pick one another's pocket, nor make a property of either's frankness. Instead of politics,
therefore, I shall amuse you to-day with a fairy tale.

I was desired to be at my Lady Suffolk's on New-year's morn, where I found Lady Temple and
others. On the toilet Miss Hotham spied a small round box. She seized it with all the eagerness
and curiosity of eleven years. In it was wrapped up a heart-diamond ring, and a paper in which,
in a hand as small as Buckinger's[1] who used to write the Lord's Prayer in the compass of
a silver penny, were the following lines:--

    Sent by a sylph, unheard, unseen,
    A new-year's gift from Mab our queen:
    But tell it not, for if you do,
    You will be pinch'd all black and blue.
    Consider well, what a disgrace,
    To show abroad your mottled face:
    Then seal your lips, put on the ring,
    And sometimes think of Ob. the king.

[Footnote 1: Buckinger was a dwarf born without hands or feet.]

You will eagerly guess that Lady Temple was the poetess, and that we were delighted with the
gentleness of the thought and execution. The child, you may imagine, was less transported with
the poetry than the present. Her attention, however, was hurried backwards and forwards from
the ring to a new coat, that she had been trying on when sent for down; impatient to revisit
her coat, and to show the ring to her maid, she whisked upstairs; when she came down again,
she found a letter sealed, and lying on the floor--new exclamations! Lady Suffolk bade her
open it: here it is:--

    Your tongue, too nimble for your sense,
    Is guilty of a high offence;
    Hath introduced unkind debate,
    And topsy-turvy turn'd our state.
    In gallantry I sent the ring,
    The token of a love-sick king:
    Under fair Mab's auspicious name
    From me the trifling present came.
    You blabb'd the news in Suffolk's ear;
    The tattling zephyrs brought it here;
    As Mab was indolently laid
    Under a poppy's spreading shade.
    The jealous queen started in rage;
    She kick'd her crown, and beat her page:
    "Bring me my magic wand," she cries;
    "Under that primrose, there it lies;
    I'll change the silly, saucy chit,
    Into a flea, a louse, a nit,
    A worm, a grasshopper, a rat,
    An owl, a monkey, hedgehog, bat.
    But hold, why not by fairy art
    Transform the wretch into--
    Ixion once a cloud embraced,
    By Jove and jealousy well placed;
    What sport to see proud Oberon stare,
    And flirt it with a pet en l'air!"
    Then thrice she stamp'd the trembling ground,
    And thrice she waved her wand around;
    When I, endow'd with greater skill,
    And less inclined to do you ill,
    Mutter'd some words, withheld her arm,
    And kindly stopp'd the unfinish'd charm.
    But though not changed to owl or bat,
    Or something more indelicate;
    Yet, as your tongue has run too fast,
    Your boasted beauty must not last.
    No more shall frolic Cupid lie
    In ambuscade in either eye,
    From thence to aim his keenest dart
    To captivate each youthful heart:
    No more shall envious misses pine
    At charms now flown, that once were thine
    No more, since you so ill behave,
    Shall injured Oberon be your slave.

There is one word which I could wish had not been there though it is prettily excused afterwards.
The next day my Lady Suffolk desired I would write her a patent for appointing Lady Temple
poet laureate to the fairies. I was excessively out of order with a pain in my stomach, which
I had had for ten days, and was fitter to write verses like a Poet Laureate, than for making
one; however, I was going home to dinner alone, and at six I sent her some lines, which you
ought to have seen how sick I was, to excuse; but first I must tell you my tale methodically.
The next morning by nine o'clock Miss Hotham (she must forgive me twenty years hence for saying
she was eleven, for I recollect she is but ten), arrived at Lady Temple's, her face and neck
all spotted with saffron, and limping. "Oh, Madam!" said she, "I am undone for ever if you
do not assist me!" "Lord, child," cried my Lady Temple, "what is the matter?" thinking she
had hurt herself, or lost the ring, and that she was stolen out before her aunt was up. "Oh,
Madam," said the girl, "nobody but you can assist me!" My Lady Temple protests the child acted
her part so well as to deceive her. "What can I do for you?" "Dear Madam, take this load from
my back; nobody but you can." Lady Temple turned her round, and upon her back was tied a child's
waggon. In it were three tiny purses of blue velvet; in one of them a silver cup, in another
a crown of laurel, and in the third four new silver pennies, with the patent, signed at top,
"Oberon Imperator;" and two sheets of warrants strung together with blue silk according to
form; and at top an office seal of wax and a chaplet of cut paper on it. The Warrants were these:--

     From the Royal Mews:

     A waggon with the draught horses, delivered by command without fee.

     From the Lord Chamberlain's Office:

     A warrant with the royal sign manual, delivered by command without
     fee, being first entered in the office books.

     From the Lord Steward's Office:

     A butt of sack, delivered without fee or gratuity, with an order
     for returning the cask for the use of the office, by command.

     From the Great Wardrobe:

     Three velvet bags, delivered without fee, by command.

     From the Treasurer of the Household's Office:

     A year's salary paid free from land-tax, poundage, or any other
     deduction whatever by command.

     From the Jewel Office:

     A silver butt, a silver cup, a wreath of bays, by command without
     fee.

Then came the Patent:

    By these presents be it known,
    To all who bend before our throne,
    Fays and fairies, elves and sprites,
    Beauteous dames and gallant knights,
    That we, Oberon the grand,
    Emperor of fairy land,
    King of moonshine, prince of dreams,
    Lord of Aganippe's streams,
    Baron of the dimpled isles
    That lie in pretty maiden's smiles,
    Arch-treasurer of all the graces
    Dispersed through fifty lovely faces,
    Sovereign of the slipper's order,
    With all the rites thereon that border,
    Defender of the sylphic faith,
    Declare--and thus your monarch saith:
    Whereas there is a noble dame,
    Whom mortals Countess Temple name,
    To whom ourself did erst impart
    The choicest secrets of our art,
    Taught her to tune the harmonious line
    To our own melody divine,
    Taught her the graceful negligence,
    Which, scorning art and veiling sense,
    Achieves that conquest o'er the heart
    Sense seldom gains, and never art:
    This lady, 'tis our royal will
    Our laureate's vacant seat should fill;
    A chaplet of immortal bays
    Shall crown her brow and guard her lays,
    Of nectar sack an acorn cup
    Be at her board each year filled up;
    And as each quarter feast comes round
    A silver penny shall be found
    Within the compass of her shoe--
    And so we bid you all adieu!

     Given at our palace of Cowslip Castle, the shortest night of the
     year.

     OBERON.

And underneath,

     HOTHAMINA.

How shall I tell you the greatest curiosity of the story? The whole plan and execution of the
second act was laid and adjusted by my Lady Suffolk herself and Will. Chetwynd, Master of the
Mint, Lord Bolingbroke's Oroonoko-Chetwynd;[1] he fourscore, she past seventy-six; and, what
is more, much worse than I was, for added to her deafness, she has been confined these three
weeks with the gout in her eyes, and was actually then in misery, and had been without sleep.
What spirits, and cleverness, and imagination, at that age, and under those afflicting circumstances!
You reconnoitre her old court knowledge, how charmingly she has applied it! Do you wonder I
pass so many hours and evenings with her? Alas! I had like to have lost her this morning! They
had poulticed her feet to draw the gout downwards, and began to succeed yesterday, but to-day
it flew up into her head, and she was almost in convulsions with the agony, and screamed dreadfully;
proof enough how ill she was, for her patience and good breeding makes her for ever sink and
conceal what she feels. This evening the gout has been driven back to her foot, and I trust
she is out of danger. Her loss will be irreparable to me at Twickenham, where she is by far
the most rational and agreeable company I have.

[Footnote 1: Oroonoko-Chetwynd, M.P. for Plymouth. He was called Oroonoko and sometimes "Black
Will," from his dark complexion.]

I don't tell you that the Hereditary Prince [of Brunswick][1] is still expected and not arrived.
A royal wedding would be a flat episode after a real fairy tale, though the bridegroom is a
hero. I have not seen your brother General yet, but have called on him, When come you yourself?
Never mind the town and its filthy politics; we can go to the Gallery at Strawberry--stay,
I don't know whether we can or not, my hill is almost drowned, I don't know how your mountain
is--well, we can take a boat, and always be gay there; I wish we may be so at seventy-six and
eighty! I abominate politics more and more; we had glories, and would not keep them: well!
content, that there was an end of blood; then perks prerogative its ass's ears up; we are always
to be saving our liberties, and then staking them again! 'Tis wearisome! I hate the discussion,
and yet one cannot always sit at a gaming-table and never make a bet. I wish for nothing, I
care not a straw for the inns or the outs; I determine never to think of them, yet the contagion
catches one; can you tell anything that will prevent infection? Well then, here I swear,--no,
I won't swear, one always breaks one's oath. Oh, that I had been born to love a court like
Sir William Breton! I should have lived and died with the comfort of thinking that courts there
will be to all eternity, and the liberty of my country would never once have ruffled my smile,
or spoiled my bow. I envy Sir William. Good night!

[Footnote 1: The Duke of Brunswick, who was mortally wounded in 1806 at the battle of Jena.
He had come, as is mentioned in the next letter, to marry the King's sister.]

MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCE OF BRUNSWICK: HIS POPULARITY.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

ARLINGTON STREET, Jan. 18, 1764.

Shall I tell you of all our crowds, and balls, and embroideries? Don't I grow too old to describe
drawing-rooms? Surely I do, when I find myself too old to go into them. I forswore puppet-shows
at the last coronation, and have kept my word to myself. However, being bound by a prior vow,
to keep up the acquaintance between you and your own country, I will show you, what by the
way I have not seen myself, the Prince of Brunswick. He arrived at Somerset House last Friday
evening; at Chelmsford a quaker walked into the room, did pull off his hat, and said, "Friend,
my religion forbids me to fight, but I honour those that fight well." The Prince, though he
does not speak English, understands it enough to be pleased with the compliment. He received
another, very flattering. As he went next morning to St. James's, he spied in the crowd one
of Elliot's light-horse and kissed his hand to the man. "What!" said the populace, "does he
know you?" "Yes," replied the man; "he once led me into a scrape, which nothing but himself
could have brought me out of again." You may guess how much this added to the Prince's popularity,
which was at high-water mark before.

When he had visited the King and Queen, he went to the Princess Dowager at Leicester House,
and saw his mistress. He is very galant, and professes great satisfaction in his fortune, for
he had not even seen her picture. He carries his good-breeding so far as to declare he would
have returned unmarried, if she had not pleased him. He has had levées and dinners at Somerset
House; to the latter, company was named for him. On Monday evening they were married by the
Archbishop in the great drawing-room, with little ceremony; supped, and lay at Leicester House.
Yesterday morning was a drawing-room at St. James's, and a ball at night; both repeated to-day,
for the Queen's birthday. On Thursday they go to the play; on Friday the Queen gives them a
ball and dinner at her house; on Saturday they dine with the Princess at Kew, and return for
the Opera; and on Wednesday--why, they make their bow and curtsy, and sail.

The Prince has pleased everybody; his manner is thought sensible and engaging; his person slim,
genteel, and handsome enough; that is, not at all handsome, but martial, agreeably weather-worn.
I should be able to swear to all this on Saturday, when I intend to see him; but, alas! the
post departs on Friday, and, however material my testimony may be, he must want it.

GAMBLING QUARRELS--MR. CONWAY'S SPEECH.

TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD.

ARLINGTON STREET, Feb. 6, 1764.

You have, I hope, long before this, my dear lord, received the immense letter that I sent you
by old Monin. It explained much, and announced most part of which has already happened; for
you will observe that when I tell you anything very positively, it is on good intelligence.
I have another much bigger secret for you, but that will be delivered to you by word of mouth.
I am not a little impatient for the long letter you promised me. In the mean time thank you
for the account you give me of the King's extreme civility to you. It is like yourself to dwell
on that, and to say little of M. de Chaulnes's dirtv behaviour; but Monsieur and Madame de
Guerchy have told your brother and me all the particulars.

I was but too good a prophet when I warned you to expect new extravagances from the Duc de
Chaulnes's son. Some weeks ago he lost five hundred pounds to one Virette, an equivocal being,
that you remember here. Paolucci, the Modenese minister, who is not in the odour of honesty,
was of the party. The Duc de Pecquigny said to the latter, "Monsieur, ne jouez plus avec lui,
si vous n'êtes pas de moitié." So far was very well. On Saturday, at the Maccaroni Club (which
is composed of all the travelled young men who wear long curls and spying glasses), they played
again: the Duc lost, but not much. In the passage at the Opera, the Duc saw Mr. Stuart talking
to Virette, and told the former that Virette was a coquin, a fripon, &c., &c. Virette retired,
saying only, "Voilà un fou." The Duc then desired Lord Tavistock to come and see him fight
Virette, but the Marquis desired to be excused. After the Opera, Virette went to the Duc's
lodgings, but found him gone to make his complaint to Monsieur de Guerchy, whither he followed
him; and farther this deponent knoweth not. I pity the Count [de Guerchy], who is one of the
best-natured amiable men in the world, for having this absurd boy upon his hands!

Well! now for a little politics. The Cider Bill has not answered to the minority, though they
ran the ministry hard; but last Friday was extraordinary. George Grenville was pushed upon
some Navy Bills. I don't understand a syllable, you know, of money and accounts; but whatever
was the matter, he was driven from entrenchment to entrenchment by Baker and Charles Townshend.
After that affair was over, and many gone away, Sir W. Meredith moved for the depositions on
which the warrant against Wilkes had been granted. The Ministers complained of the motion being
made so late in the day; called it a surprise; and Rigby moved to adjourn, which was carried
but by 73 to 60. Had a surprise been intended, you may imagine the minority would have been
better provided with numbers; but it certainly had not been concerted: however, a majority,
shrunk to thirteen, frightened them out of the small senses they possess. Heaven, Earth, and
the Treasury, were moved to recover their ground to-day, when the question was renewed. For
about two hours the debate hobbled on very lamely, when on a sudden your brother rose, and
made such a speech[1]--but I wish anybody was to give you the account except me, whom you will
think partial: but you will hear enough of it, to confirm anything I can say. Imagine fire,
rapidity, argument, knowledge, wit, ridicule, grace, spirit; all pouring like a torrent, but
without clashing. Imagine the House in a tumult of continued applause, imagine the Ministers
thunderstruck; lawyers abashed and almost blushing, for it was on their quibbles and evasions
he fell most heavily, at the same time answering a whole session of arguments on the side of
the court. No, it was unique; you can neither conceive it, nor the exclamations it occasioned.
Ellis, the Forlorn Hope, Ellis presented himself in the gap, till the ministers could recover
themselves, when on a sudden Lord George Sackville led up the Blues; spoke with as much warmth
as your brother had, and with great force continued the attack which he had begun. Did not
I tell you he would take this part? I was made privy to it; but this is far from all you are
to expect. Lord North in vain rumbled about his mustard-bowl, and endeavoured alone to outroar
a whole party: him and Forrester, Charles Townshend took up, but less well than usual. His
jealousy of your brother's success, which was very evident, did not help him to shine. There
were several other speeches, and, upon the whole, it was a capital debate; but Plutus is so
much more persuasive an orator than your brother or Lord George, that we divided but 122 against
217. Lord Strange, who had agreed to the question, did not dare to vote for it, and declared
off; and George Townshend, who had actually voted for it on Friday, now voted against us. Well!
upon the whole, I heartily wish this administration may last: both their characters and abilities
are so contemptible, that I am sure we can be in no danger from prerogative when trusted to
such hands!

[Footnote 1: Walpole must have exaggerated the merits of this speech; for Conway was never
remarkable for eloquence. Indeed, Walpole himself, in his "Memoirs of George II.," quotes Mr.
Hutchinson, the Prime Serjeant in Ireland, contrasting him with Lord G. Sackville, "Lord George
having parts, but no integrity; Conway integrity, but no parts: and now they were governed
by one who had neither." And Walpole's comment on this comparison is: "There was more wit than
truth in this description. Conway's parts, though not brilliant, were solid" (vol. ii. p. 246).
In his "Life of Pitt" Lord Stanhope describes him as "a man who, in the course of a long public
life, had shown little vigour or decision, but who was much respected for his honourable character
and moderate counsels" (c. 5).]

Before I have done with Charles Townshend, I must tell you one of his admirable bon mots. Miss
Draycote, the great fortune, is grown very fat; he says her tonnage is become equal to her
poundage.

ACCOUNT OF THE DEBATE ON THE GENERAL WARRANT.

TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD.

ARLINGTON STREET, Wednesday, Feb. 15, 1764.

My dear Lord,--You ought to be witness to the fatigue I am suffering, before you can estimate
the merit I have in being writing to you at this moment. Cast up eleven hours in the House
of Commons on Monday, and above seventeen hours yesterday,--ay, seventeen at length,--and then
you may guess if I am tired! nay, you must add seventeen hours that I may possibly be there
on Friday, and then calculate if I am weary. In short, yesterday was the longest day ever known
in the House of Commons--why, on the Westminster election at the end of my father's reign,
I was at home by six. On Alexander Murray's affair, I believe, by five--on the militia, twenty
people, I think, sat till six, but then they were only among themselves, no heat, no noise,
no roaring. It was half an hour after seven this morning before I was at home. Think of that,
and then brag of your French parliaments!

What is ten times greater, Leonidas and the Spartan minority did not make such a stand at Thermopylae,
as we did. Do you know, we had like to have been the majority? Xerxes[1] is frightened out
of his senses; Sysigambis[1] has sent an express to Luton to forbid Phraates[1] coming to town
to-morrow; Norton's[2] impudence has forsaken him; Bishop Warburton is at this moment reinstating
Mr. Pitt's name in the dedication to his Sermons, which he had expunged for Sandwich's; and
Sandwich himself is--at Paris, perhaps, by this time, for the first thing that I expect to
hear to-morrow is, that he is gone off.

[Footnote 1: "Xerxes, Sysigambis, Phraates." These names contain allusions to one of Mdlle.
Scudéri's novels, which, as D'Israeli remarks, are "representations of what passed at the Court
of France"; but in this letter the scene of action is transferred to England. Xerxes is George
III.; Sysigambis, the Princess Dowager; and Phraates is Lord Bute.]

[Footnote 2: Sir Fletcher Norton, the Speaker.]

Now are you mortally angry with me for trifling with you, and not telling you at once the particulars
of this almost-revolution? You may be angry, but I shall take my own time, and shall give myself
what airs I please both to you, my Lord Ambassador, and to you, my Lord Secretary of State,
who will, I suppose, open this letter--if you have courage enough left. In the first place,
I assume all the impertinence of a prophet,--aye, of that great curiosity, a prophet, who really
prophesied before the event, and whose predictions have been accomplished. Have I, or have
I not, announced to you the unexpected blows that would be given to the administration?--come,
I will lay aside my dignity, and satisfy your impatience. There's moderation.

We sat all Monday hearing evidence against Mr. Wood,[1] that dirty wretch Webb, and the messengers,
for their illegal proceedings against Mr. Wilkes. At midnight, Mr. Grenville offered us to
adjourn or proceed. Mr. Pitt humbly begged not to eat or sleep till so great a point should
be decided. On a division, in which though many said aye to adjourning, nobody would go out
for fear of losing their seats, it was carried by 379 to 31, for proceeding--and then--half
the House went away. The ministers representing the indecency of this, and Fitzherbert saying
that many were within call, Stanley observed, that after voting against adjournment, a third
part had adjourned themselves, when, instead of being within call, they ought to have been
within hearing; this was unanswerable, and we adjourned.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Wood and Mr. Webb were the Under-Secretary of State and the Solicitor of the
Treasury; and, as such, the officers chiefly responsible for the form of the warrant complained
of.]

Yesterday we fell to again. It was one in the morning before the evidence was closed. Carrington,
the messenger, was alone examined for seven hours. This old man, the cleverest of all ministerial
terriers, was pleased with recounting his achievements, yet perfectly guarded and betraying
nothing. However, the arcana imperii have been wofully laid open.

I have heard Garrick, and other players, give themselves airs of fatigue after a long part--think
of the Speaker, nay, think of the clerks taking most correct minutes for sixteen hours, and
reading them over to every witness; and then let me hear of fatigue! Do you know, not only
my Lord Temple,[1]--who you may swear never budged as spectator,--but old Will Chetwynd, now
past eighty, and who had walked to the House, did not stir a single moment out of his place,
from three in the afternoon till the division at seven in the morning. Nay, we had patriotesses,
too, who stayed out the whole: Lady Rockingham and Lady Sondes the first day; both again the
second day, with Miss Mary Pelham, Mrs. Fitzroy, and the Duchess of Richmond, as patriot as
any of us. Lady Mary Coke, Mrs. George Pitt, and Lady Pembroke, came after the Opera, but I
think did not stay above seven or eight hours at most.

[Footnote 1: Lord Temple was Mr. Pitt's brother-in-law, a restless and impracticable intriguer.
He had some such especial power of influencing Mr. Pitt--who, it is supposed, must have been
under some pecuniary obligation to him--that he was able the next year to prevent his accepting
the office of Prime Minister when the King pressed it on him.]

At one, Sir W. Meredith moved a resolution of the illegality of the Warrant, and opened it
well. He was seconded by old Darlington's brother, a convert to us. Mr. Wood, who had shone
the preceding day by great modesty, decency, and ingenuity, forfeited these merits a good deal
by starting up, (according to a Ministerial plan,) and very arrogantly, and repeatedly in the
night, demanding justice and a previous acquittal, and telling the House he scorned to accept
being merely excused; to which Mr. Pitt replied, that if he disdained to be excused, he would
deserve to be censured. Mr. Charles Yorke (who, with his family, have come roundly to us for
support against the Duke of Bedford on the Marriage Bill) proposed to adjourn. Grenville and
the ministry would have agreed to adjourn the debate on the great question itself, but declared
they would push this acquittal. This they announced haughtily enough--for as yet, they did
not doubt of their strength. Lord Frederick Campbell was the most impetuous of all, so little
he foresaw how much wiser it would be to follow your brother. Pitt made a short speech, excellently
argumentative, and not bombast, nor tedious, nor deviating from the question. He was supported
by your brother, and Charles Townshend, and Lord George; the two last of whom are strangely
firm, now they are got under the cannon of your brother:--Charles, who, as he must be extraordinary,
is now so in romantic nicety of honour. His father, who is dying, or dead, at Bath, and from
whom he hopes two thousand a year, has sent for him. He has refused to go--lest his steadiness
should be questioned. At a quarter after four we divided. Our cry was so loud, that both we
and the ministers thought we had carried it. It is not to be painted, the dismay of the latter--in
good truth not without reason, for we were 197, they but 207. Your experience can tell you,
that a majority of but ten is a defeat. Amidst a great defection from them, was even a white
staff, Lord Charles Spencer--now you know still more of what I told you was preparing for them!

Crest-fallen, the ministers then proposed simply to discharge the complaint; but the plumes
which they had dropped, Pitt soon placed in his own beaver. He broke out on liberty, and, indeed,
on whatever he pleased, uninterrupted. Rigby sat feeling the vice-treasureship slipping from
under him. Nugent was not less pensive--Lord Strange, though not interested, did not like it.
Everybody was too much taken up with his own concerns, or too much daunted, to give the least
disturbance to the Pindaric. Grenville, however, dropped a few words, which did but heighten
the flame. Pitt, with less modesty than ever he showed, pronounced a panegyric on his own administration,
and from thence broke out on the dismission of officers. This increased the roar from us. Grenville
replied, and very finely, very pathetically, very animated. He painted Wilkes and faction,
and, with very little truth, denied the charge of menaces to officers. At that moment, General
A'Court walked up the House--think what an impression such an incident must make, when passions,
hopes, and fears, were all afloat--think, too, how your brother and I, had we been ungenerous,
could have added to these sensations! There was a man not so delicate. Colonel Barré rose--and
this attended with a striking circumstance; Sir Edward Deering, one of our noisy fools, called
out, "Mr. Barré."[1] The latter seized the thought with admirable quickness, and said to the
Speaker, who, in pointing to him, had called him Colonel, "I beg your pardon, Sir, you have
pointed to me by a title I have no right to," and then made a very artful and pathetic speech
on his own services and dismission; with nothing bad but an awkward attempt towards an excuse
to Mr. Pitt for his former behaviour. Lord North, who will not lose his bellow, though he may
lose his place, endeavoured to roar up the courage of his comrades, but it would not do--the
House grew tired, and we again divided at seven for adjournment; some of our people were gone,
and we remained but 184, they 208; however, you will allow our affairs are mended, when we
say, but 184. We then came away, and left the ministers to satisfy Wood, Webb, and themselves,
as well as they could. It was eight this morning before I was in bed; and considering that,
this is no very short letter. Mr. Pitt bore the fatigue with his usual spirit--and even old
Onslow, the late Speaker, was sitting up, anxious for the event.

[Footnote 1: Mr. Barré had lately been dismissed from the office of Adjutant-General, on account
of some of his votes in Parliament. In 1784 he was appointed Clerk of the Rolls, a place worth
above £3,000 a year, by Mr. Pitt, who, with extraordinary disinterestedness, forbore from taking
it himself, that he might relieve the nation from a pension of similar amount which had been
improperly conferred on the Colonel by Lord Rockingham.]

On Friday we are to have the great question, which would prevent my writing; and to-morrow
I dine with Guerchy, at the Duke of Grafton's, besides twenty other engagements. To-day I have
shut myself up; for with writing this, and taking notes yesterday all day, and all night, I
have not an eye left to see out of--nay, for once in my life, I shall go to bed at ten o'clock....

Adieu! pray tell Mr. Hume that I am ashamed to be thus writing the history of England, when
he is with you!

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, June 8, 1764.

Your Red Riband is certainly postponed. There was but one vacant, which was promised to General
Draper, who, when he thought he felt the sword dubbing his shoulder, was told that my Lord
Clive could not conquer the Indies a second time without being a Knight of the Bath. This,
however, I think will be but a short parenthesis, for I expect that heaven-born hero[1] to
return from whence he came, instead of bringing hither all the Mogul's pearls and rubies. Yet,
before that happens there will probably be other vacancies to content both Draper and you.

[Footnote 1: "That heaven-born hero" had been Lord Chatham's description of Lord Clive.]

You have a new neighbour coming to you, Mr. William Hamilton,[1] one of the King's equerries,
who succeeds Sir James Gray at Naples. Hamilton is a friend of mine, is son of Lady Archibald,
and was aide-de-camp to Mr. Conway. He is picture-mad, and will ruin himself in virtù-land.
His wife is as musical as he is connoisseur, but she is dying of an asthma.

[Footnote 1: Mr. W. Hamilton, afterwards Sir William, was the husband of the celebrated Lady
Hamilton.]

I have never heard of the present[1] you mention of the box of essences. The secrets of that
prison-house do not easily transpire, and the merit of any offering is generally assumed, I
believe, by the officiating priests.

[Footnote 1: A present from Sir Horace, I believe, to the Queen.--WALPOLE.]

Lord Tavistock is to be married to-morrow to Lady Elizabeth Keppel, Lord Albemarle's sister.

I love to tell you an anecdote of any of our old acquaintance, and I have now a delightful
one, relating, yet indirectly, to one of them. You know, to be sure, that Madame de Craon's
daughter, Madame de Boufflers, has the greatest power with King Stanislaus. Our old friend
the Princess de Craon goes seldom to Luneville for this reason, not enduring to see her daughter
on that throne which she so long filled with absolute empire. But Madame de Boufflers, who,
from his Majesty's age, cannot occupy all the places in the palace that her mother filled,
indemnifies herself with his Majesty's Chancellor. One day the lively old monarch said, "Regardez,
quel joli petit pied, et la belle jambe! Mon Chancellier vous dira le reste." You know this
is the form when a King of France says a few words to his Parliament, and then refers them
to his chancellor. I expect to hear a great deal soon of the princess, for Mr. Churchill and
my sister are going to settle at Nancy for some time. Adieu!

THE KING OF POLAND--CATHERINE OF RUSSIA.

TO SIR HORACE MANN.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Aug. 13, 1764.

I am afraid it is some thousands of days since I wrote to you; but woe is me! how could I help
it? Summer will be summer, and peace peace. It is not the fashion to be married, or die in
the former, nor to kill or be killed in the latter; and pray recollect if those are not the
sources of correspondence. You may perhaps put in a caveat against my plea of peace, and quote
Turks Island[1] upon me; why, to be sure the parenthesis is a little hostile, but we are like
a good wife, and can wink at what we don't like to see; besides, the French, like a sensible
husband, that has made a slip, have promised us a new topknot, so we have kissed and are very
good friends.

[Footnote 1: Turk's Island, called also Tortuga, is a small island near St. Domingo, of which
a French squadron had dispossessed some British settlers; but the French Government disavowed
the act, and compensated the settlers.]

The Duke of York returned very abruptly. The town talks of remittances stopped; but as I know
nothing of the matter, and you are not only a minister but have the honour of his good graces,
I do not pretend to tell you what to be sure you know better than I do.

Old Sir John Barnard is dead, which he had been to the world for some time; and Mr. Legge.
The latter, who was heartily in the minority, said cheerfully just before he died, "that he
was going to the majority."

Let us talk a little of the north. Count Poniatowski, with whom I was acquainted when he was
here, is King of Poland, and calls himself Stanislaus the Second. This is the sole instance,
I believe, upon record, of a second of a name being on the throne while the first was living
without having contributed to dethrone him.[1] Old Stanislaus lives to see a line of successors,
like Macbeth in the cave of the witches. So much for Poland; don't let us go farther north;
we shall find there Alecto herself. I have almost wept for poor Ivan! I shall soon begin to
believe that Richard III. murdered as many folks as the Lancastrian historians say he did.
I expect that this Fury will poison her son next, lest Semiramis should have the bloody honour
of having been more unnatural. As Voltaire has unpoisoned so many persons of former ages, methinks
he ought to do as much for the present time, and assure posterity that there never was such
a lamb as Catherine II., and that, so far from assassinating her own husband and Czar Ivan,[2]
she wept over every chicken that she had for dinner. How crimes, like fashions, flit from clime
to clime! Murder reigns under the Pole, while you, who are in the very town where Catherine
de' Medici was born, and within a stone's throw of Rome, where Borgia and his holy father sent
cardinals to the other world by hecatombs, are surprised to hear that there is such an instrument
as a stiletto. The papal is now a mere gouty chair, and the good old souls don't even waddle
out of it to get a bastard.

[Footnote 1: The first was Stanislaus Leczinski, father of the Queen of France. He had been
driven from Poland by Peter the Great after the overthrow of Charles XII. of Sweden (v. infra,
Letter 90).]

[Footnote 2: Ivan, the Czar who had been deposed by the former Czarina, Elizabeth, had recently
been murdered, while trying to escape from the confinement in which he had been so long detained.]

Well, good night! I have no more monarchs to chat over; all the rest are the most Catholic
or most Christian, or most something or other that is divine; and you know one can never talk
long about folks that are only excellent. One can say no more about Stanislaus the first than
that he is the best of beings. I mean, unless they do not deserve it, and then their flatterers
can hold forth upon their virtues by the hour.

MADAME DE BOUFFLERS' WRITINGS--KING JAMES'S JOURNAL.

TO THE EARL OF HERTFORD.

STRAWBERRY HILL, Oct. 5, 1764.

My dear Lord,--Though I wrote to you but a few days ago, I must trouble you with another line
now. Dr. Blanchard, a Cambridge divine, and who has a good paternal estate in Yorkshire, is
on his travels, which he performs as a gentleman; and, therefore, wishes not to have his profession
noticed. He is very desirous of paying his respects to you, and of being countenanced by you
while he stays at Paris. It will much oblige a particular friend of mine, and consequently
me, if you will favour him with your attention. Everybody experiences your goodness, but in
the present case I wish to attribute it a little to my request.

I asked you about two books, ascribed to Madame de Boufflers. If they are hers, I should be
glad to know where she found, that Oliver Cromwell took orders and went over to Holland to
fight the Dutch. As she has been on the spot where he reigned (which is generally very strong
evidence), her countrymen will believe her in spite of our teeth; and Voltaire, who loves all
anecdotes that never happened, because they prove the manners of the times, will hurry it into
the first history he publishes. I, therefore, enter my caveat against it; not as interested
for Oliver's character, but to save the world from one more fable. I know Madame de Boufflers
will attribute this scruple to my partiality to Cromwell (and, to be sure, if we must be ridden,
there is some satisfaction when the man knows how to ride). I remember one night at the Duke
of Grafton's, a bust of Cromwell was produced: Madame de Boufflers, without uttering a syllable,
gave me the most speaking look imaginable, as much as to say, "Is it possible you can admire
this man!" Apropos: I am sorry to say the reports do not cease about the separation, and yet
I have heard nothing that confirms it.

I once begged you to send me a book in three volumes, called "Essais sur les Moeurs;" forgive
me if I put you in mind of it, and request you to send me that, or any other new book. I am
wofully in want of reading, and sick to death of all our political stuff, which, as the Parliament
is happily at the distance of three months, I would fain forget till I cannot help hearing
of it. I am reduced to Guicciardin, and though the evenings are so long, I cannot get through
one of his periods between dinner and supper. They tell me Mr. Hume has had sight of King James's
journal;[1] I wish I could see all the trifling passages that he will not deign to admit into
History. I do not love great folks till they have pulled off their buskins and put on their
slippers, because I do not care sixpence for what they would be thought, but for what they are.

[Footnote 1: This journal is understood to have been destroyed in the course of the French
Revolution, but it had not only been previously seen by Hume, as Walpole mentions here, but
Mr. Fox had also had access to it, and had made some notes or extracts from it, which were
subsequently communicated to Lord Macaulay when he carried out the design of writing a "History
of the Revolution of 1688," which Mr. Fox had contemplated.]

Mr. Elliot brings us woful accounts of the French ladies, of the decency of their conversation,
and the nastiness of their behaviour.

Nobody is dead, married, or gone mad, since my last. Adieu!...

END OF VOL. I.