"If she has matured any, she keeps them shut up in her own heart. Once she talked freely to
me on all subjects, but recently she seems to avoid acquainting me with her intentions or schemes.
Of course, Ulpian, you know I have always expected to leave her a portion of my property."

"Certainly, dear Janet; you ought to provide comfortably for the girl whom you have taught
to rely upon your bounty. It would be cruel and unpardonable to foster hopes that you could
not fully realize."

"It was my intention to put into your hands the share I intended for her, and to leave her
also to your care, when I die; but now I know not what is best. If she could be separated from
you, she might divert her thoughts and become interested in other things or persons; but so
long as you are in the same house I know there will be nothing but wretchedness and disappointment
for her."

After a long pause, during which Dr. Grey looked seriously pained and perplexed, he said, sorrowfully,--

"You are right in thinking separation would be best; and I will go away at once--"

"Go where?" exclaimed his sister, grasping his coat-sleeve.

"I will furnish the rooms over my office, and live there. It will be more convenient for my
business; but I dislike to leave you and the dear old homestead."

"Stuff! You will churn the Atlantic, with the North Pole for a dasher! Ulpian Grey! come weal
come woe, I don't intend to give you up. Here, right here, you will live while there is breath
in my body,--unless you wish to make me sob it out and die the sooner. Pooh! Salome's shining
eyes can not recompense me for the loss of my boy's blue ones, and I will not hear of such
nonsense as the move you propose. You know, dear, I can't be here very long at the best, and
while God spares me I want you near me. Besides, the separation of a few miles would not be
worth a thimbleful of chaff; for, of course, Salome would hear of or see you daily, and the
change would amount to nothing but anxiety and grief on my part. We will think the matter over,
and do nothing rashly. But try to be patient with my little girl; and, for my sake, Ulpian,
do not allow her to suspect that you dream of her feeling towards you. It is pitiable,--it
is distressing beyond expression; and God knows, if I had thought for an instant that such
a state of things would ever have come to pass, I would have left her in the poor-house sooner
than have been instrumental in bringing such misery upon her young life. Last night I was suffering
so much with my shoulder that I could not sleep, and I heard the child pacing her room until
after three o'clock. It was useless to question her; for, of course, she would not confess
the real cause, and I did not wish her to know that I noticed what I could not cure. But, my
dearest boy, we are not to be blamed; so don't look so mortified and grieved. I would not have
opened your unsuspecting eyes if I had not feared that your ignorance of the truth might increase
the trouble, and I knew I could safely appeal to my sailor-boy's honor. Now you know all, and
must be guided by your own good sense and delicacy in your future course toward the poor, proud
young thing. Be guarded, Ulpian, and don't torment her by petting Muriel in her presence; for
sometimes I am afraid there is bad blood in her veins, that brings that wicked glow to her
eyes, and I dread that she might suddenly say or do some desperate thing that would plunge
us all in sorrow. You know she is not a meek creature, and we must pity her weakness."

Dr. Grey had grown very pale, and the profound regret printed on his countenance found expression
also in the deepened and saddened tones of his voice.

"Trust me, Janet! I will do all a man can to rectify the mischief, of which, God knows, I have
been an innocent and entirely unintentional cause. Salome's course is unwomanly, and lowers
her in my estimation; but she is so young I shall hope and pray that her preference for me
is not sufficiently strong to prove more than an idle, fleeting, girlish fancy."

He took his gloves from the table and left the room; and, for some time after his departure,
his sister sat rocking herself to and fro, pondering all that had passed. Finally, she struck
her hand decisively upon the cushioned top of her crutch, and muttered,--

"Yes, he certainly is as nearly perfect as humanity can be; but, after all, Ulpian Grey is
only flesh and blood, and despite his efforts to crush it, there must be some vanity hidden
under his proud humility,--for certainly he is both humble in one sense, and inordinately proud
in another; and I do not believe there lives a man of his age who would not be flattered by
the love of a fresh young beauty like Salome. He thinks now that he is distressed and mortified;
and, of course, he is honest in what he tells me; but I have studied human nature to very little
purpose for the last fifty years, if, before long, he does not find himself more interested
in Salome than he will be willing to confess. Her love for him will invest her with a charm
she never possessed before, for men are vulnerable as women to the cunning advances of flattery.
One thing is as sure and clear as that two and two make four,--if he is proof against Salome's
devotion it will be attributable to the fact that he gives his heart to some one else; and
I thought his blue eyes rather shied away from mine when he said he had yet to meet the woman
he could marry. You don't intend to deceive me, my precious boy, I know you don't; but I should
not be astounded if you had hoodwinked yourself,--a very little. But 'sufficient unto the day
is the evil thereof,' and I will wait,--and we shall see what we shall see."

CHAPTER XIV.

"Elsie, it is worse than useless to talk to me. Once I could listen to you,--once I felt as
you do now; but that time has gone by forever. I will read to you as often as you desire it,
provided you do not make every chapter a text for a sermon. What do you wish to hear this morning?"

"The fortieth Psalm."

Mrs. Gerome opened the Bible, and, when she had finished the psalm designated, shut the book
and laid it back close to Elsie's pillow.

The old woman placed her hand on the round, white arm of her mistress, who rested carelessly
against the bed.

"You know, my child, that David's afflictions were sore indeed; but he declares, 'I waited
patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.' You will not be patient,
and God can't help you till you are. We are like children punished for bad conduct,--as long
as we rebel and struggle, of course we must be still further chastised; but the moment we show
real penitence, our parents notice that we are bearing correction patiently, and then they
throw away the rod and stretch out their arms, and snatch us close to their loving hearts.
Even so God holds one hand to draw us tenderly to Him; and, if we are obstinately sinful, with
the other He scourges us into the right path,--determined to help us, even against our own
wills. Ah, if I could see you waiting patiently for the Lord!"

"You will never see it. Patience was 'scourged' out of me, and now I stand still because I
am worn out with struggling, waiting--not patiently, but wearily and helplessly--to see the
end of my punishment. What have I done that I should feign a penitence I shall never feel?
I was a happy, trusting, unoffending woman, when God smote me fiercely; and, because I was
so innocent, I could not kiss my stinging rod, I grappled desperately with it. Elsie, don't
stir up the bitter dregs in my soul, and mix them with every thought. Let them settle."

"My darling, I don't want them to settle. I pray either that they may be stirred up and taken
out, or sweetened by the grace of God. Do you ever think of the day when you will face your
sainted mother?"

"No. I think only of enduring this present life until death, my deliverer, comes to my rescue."

"But, my bairn, you are not fit to die."

"Fit to die as to live," answered her mistress, morosely.

"For God's sake, don't flout the Almighty in that wicked manner! If you would only be baptized
and take refuge in prayer, as every Christian should, you would find peace for your poor, miserable
soul."

"No; peace can't be poured out of a pitcher with the baptismal water; and all the waves tossing
and glittering out there in the ocean could not wash one painful memory from my heart. I have
had one baptism, and it was ample and thorough. I went down into the waters of woe, and all
their black billows broke over me. Instead of the Jordan, I was immersed in the Dead Sea, and
the asphaltum cleaves to me."

"Oh, dearie, you will break my heart! I wish now that you had died when you were only fourteen
months old, for then there would have been one more precious lamb in the flock of the Good
Shepherd, safe in heavenly pastures--one more dear little golden head nestling on Jesus' bosom,--instead
of--of--"

Elsie's emotion mastered her voice, and she sobbed convulsively.

"Why did not you finish? 'Instead of a gray head waiting to go down into the pit of perdition.'
Yes, it was a terrible blunder that I was not allowed to die in my infancy; but it can't be
helped now, and I wish you would not fret yourself into a fever over the irremediable. Why
will you persist in tormenting yourself and me about my want of resignation and faith, when
you know that exhortation and persuasion have no more effect upon me than the whistle of the
plover down yonder in the sedge and seaweed,--where I heartily wish I were lying, ten feet
under the shells? Rather a damp pillow for my fastidious, proud head, but, at least, cool and
quiet. Calm yourself, my dear Elsie, for God will not hold you responsible if I miss my place
among the saints, when He divides the sheep from the goats, in the last day,--Dies iræ dies
illa. Let me straighten your pillow and smooth your cap-border, for I see your doctor coming
up the walk. There,--dry your eyes. When you want me, send Robert or Katie to call me."

Mrs. Gerome leaned over the helpless, prostrate form on the bed, pressed her cheek against
that of her nurse, where tears still glistened, and glided swiftly out of the room just before
Dr. Grey entered.

Never had he seen his patient so completely unnerved; but, observing her efforts to compose
herself, he forbore any allusion to an agitation which he suspected was referable to mental
rather than physical causes. Bravely the stubborn woman struggled to steady her voice, and
still the twitching tell-tale muscles about her mouth; but the burden of anxiety finally bore
down all resolves, and, covering her face with her broad hand, she wept unrestrainedly.

In profound silence Dr. Grey sat beside her for nearly five minutes; then, fearful that the
excitement might prove injurious, he said, gently,--

"I hope you are not suffering so severely from bodily pain? What distresses you, my good woman?
Perhaps, if I knew the cause, I might be able to render you some service."

"It is not my body,--that, you know, is numb, and gives me no pain,--but my mind! Doctor, I
am suffering in mind, and you have no medicine that can ease that."

"Possibly I may accomplish more than you imagine is within reach of my remedies. Of one thing
you may rest assured,--you will never have reason to regret any confidence you may repose in me."

"Dr. Grey, I believe you are a Christian; at least, I have heard so; and, since my affliction,
I have been watching you very closely, and begin to think I can trust you. Are you a member
of the church?"

"I am; although that fact alone should not entitle me to your confidence. We are all erring,
and full of faults, but I endeavor to live in such a manner that I shall not bring disgrace
upon the holy faith I profess."

"Shut the door, and come back to me."

He bolted the door, which stood ajar, and resumed his seat.

"Dr. Grey, I know as well as you do that I can't last a great while, and I ought to prepare
for what may overtake me any day. I have tried to live in accordance with the law of God, and
I am not afraid to die; but I am afraid to leave my mistress behind me. When I am gone there
will be no one to watch over and plead with her, and I dread lest her precious soul may be
lost. She won't go to God for herself, or by herself, and who will pray for her salvation when
I am in my shroud? Oh, I can not die in peace, leaving her alone in the world she hates and
despises! What will become of my poor, bonnie bairn?"

Elsie sobbed aloud, and Dr. Grey asked,--

"Has Mrs. Gerome no living relatives?"

"None, sir, in America. There are some cousins in Scotland, but she has never seen them, and
never will."

"Where are the members of her husband's family?"

A visible shudder crept over that portion of the woman's body which was not paralyzed, and
her face grew dark and stern.

"He was an orphan."

"His loss seems to have had a terrible effect upon Mrs. Gerome, and rendered her bitter and
hopeless."

"How hopeless, none but she and I and the God above us know. Once she was the meekest, sweetest
spirit, that ever gladdened a nurse's heart, and I thought the world was blessed by her coming
into it; but now she is sacrilegious and scoffing, and almost dares the Lord's judgments. Dr.
Grey, it would nearly freeze your blood to hear her sometimes. Poor thing! she will have no
companions, and so has a habit of talking to herself, and I often hear her arguing with the
Almighty about her life, and the trouble He allowed to fall into it. Last night she was walking
there under my window, begging God to take her out of the world before I die. Begging, did
I say? Nay,--demanding. My precious, pretty bairn!"

"Elsie, be candid with me. Is not Mrs. Gerome partially deranged?"

She struggled violently to raise herself, but failing, her head fell back, and she lifted her
finger angrily.

"No more deranged than you or I. That is a vile slander of busybodies whom she will not receive,
and who take it for granted that no lady in her sound senses would refuse the privilege of
gossiping with them. She is as sane as any one, though there is an unnatural appearance about
her, and if her heart was only as sound as her head I could die easily. They started the report
of craziness long, long ago, in order to get hold of her fortune; but it was too infamous a
scheme to succeed."

Elsie's strong white teeth were firmly set, and her clenched fingers did not relax.

"Who started the report of her insanity?"

"One who injured her, and made her what you see her."

"She had no children?"

"Oh, no! Once I begged her to adopt a pretty little orphan girl we saw in Athens, but she ridiculed
me for an old fool, and asked me if I wished to see her warm a viper to sting what was left
of her heart."

"Mrs. Gerome has indulged her grief for her husband's loss, until she has become morbidly sensitive.
She should go into the world, and interest herself in benevolent schemes; and, ultimately,
her diseased thoughts would flow into new and healthful channels. The secluded life she leads
is a hotbed for the growth of noxious fungi in heart and mind. If you possess any influence
over her, persuade her to re-enter society. She is still young enough to find not only a cure
for her grief, but an ample share of even earthly happiness."

Elsie sighed, and waved her hand impatiently.

"You do not know all, or you would understand that in this world she can not expect much happiness.
Besides, she is peculiarly sensitive about her appearance; and, of course, when she is seen,
people stare, and wonder how such a young thing got that pile of white hair. That is the reason
she quit travelling and shut herself up here."

"Was it grief that prematurely silvered her hair?"

"Yes, sir; it was as black as your coat, until her trouble came; and then in a fortnight it
turned as gray as you see it now. Doctor, I said she was not deranged, and I spoke truly; but
sometimes I have feared that, when I am gone, she might get desperate, and, in her loneliness,
destroy herself. You are a sensible man, and can hold your tongue, and I feel that I can trust
you. Now, I know that Robert loves her, and while he lives will serve her faithfully; but you
are wiser than my son, and I should be better satisfied if I left her in your charge, when
I go home. Will you promise me to take care of her, and to try to comfort her in the day when
she sees me buried?"

"Elsie, you impose upon me a duty which I am afraid Mrs. Gerome will not allow me to discharge;
and, since she is so exceedingly averse to meeting strangers, I should not feel justified in
thrusting myself into her presence."

"Not even to prevent a crime?"

"I hope that your excited imagination and anxious heart exaggerate the possibility of the danger
to which you allude."

"No; exaggeration is not one of my habits, and I know my mistress better than she knows herself.
She thinks that suicide is not a sin, but says it is cowardly; and she utterly detests and
loathes cowardice. Dr. Grey, I could not rest quietly in my coffin if she is left alone in
this dreary house, after I am carried to my long home. Will you stay here awhile, or take her
to your house,--at least for a short time?"

"I will, at all events, promise to comply with your wishes as fully as she will permit. But
recollect that I am comparatively a stranger to her, and her haughty reception of me the day
I was compelled to come here on your account, does not encourage me to presume in future. Respect
for her wishes, however unreasonable, and respect for myself, would forbid an intrusion on
my part."

"If you saw an utter stranger drowning, would fear of being considered presumptuous or impertinent
prevent your trying to save him? Your self-love should not hold you back from a Christian duty."

"And you may rest assured that it never shall, when I feel that interference--no matter how
unwelcome or ungraciously received--will prove beneficial. But remember that your mistress
is eccentric and shrinking, and all efforts to befriend her must be made very cautiously."

"True, doctor; yet sometimes, instead of consulting her, it is best to treat her as a wilful
child. I believe you could obtain some influence over her if you would only try to break the
ice, because she has spoken kindly of you several times since I have been so helpless, and
asked what she could do to show her gratitude for your goodness to me. Yesterday she said she
intended to direct Robert to take some fine fruit to your house, and she remarked that your
eyes were, in comparison with other folks', what Sabbath is to working week-days,--were so
full of rest, that tired anxious people might be refreshed by looking at them. Sir, that is
more than I have heard her utter for seven years about anybody; and, therefore, I think you
might do her some good."

Dr. Grey shook his head, but remained silent; and presently Elsie touched his arm, and continued,--

"There is something I wish to say to you before I die, but not now. I want you to promise me
that when you see my end is indeed at hand, you will tell me in time to let me talk a little
to you. Will you?"

"You may linger for months, and it is possible that you may die quite suddenly; consequently,
it might be impracticable for me to fulfil the promise you require. Still, if I can do so,
I will certainly comply with your wishes. Would it not be better to tell me at once what you
desire me to know?"

"While I live it is not necessary that any one should know, and it is only when I am about
to die that I shall speak to you. For my sake, for humanity's sake, try to become acquainted
with my mistress and make her like you, as she certainly will, if she only knows you."

A tap at the door interrupted the conversation, and soon after, Dr. Grey quitted the sick-room.

He paused in the hall to examine a fine copy of Landseer's "Old Shepherd's Chief Mourner,"
and, while he stood before it, a large greyhound started up from the mat at the front door,
and bounded towards him. Simultaneously Mrs. Gerome appeared at the threshold of the parlor.

"Come here, sir! Poor fellow, come here!"

The dog obeyed her instantly; and, pressing close to her, looked up wistfully in her face.

"Good morning, Mrs. Gerome. I must thank you for coming so promptly to my assistance. I have
never seen this dog until to-day, and, consequently, was not on my guard."

"He arrived only yesterday, and is so overjoyed to be with me once more that he allows no one
else to approach."

"He is by far the handsomest dog I have ever seen in America."

"Yes, I had great difficulty in obtaining him. My agent assures me that he belongs to the best
that are reared in the tribe of Beni Lam; and that he is a genuine Arab, there can be no doubt."

"How long have you owned him?"

"Two years. Unfortunately he was bitten by a snake one day while wandering with me among the
ruins at Pæstum, and was so singularly affected that I was forced to leave him at Naples. Various
causes combined to delay his restoration to me until last week, when he crossed the Atlantic;
and yesterday he went into ecstasies when I received him from the express agent. Hush! no growling!
Down, sir! Take care, Dr. Grey; he will bear no hand but mine, and it is rather dangerous to
caress him, as you may judge from the fangs he is showing you."

The dog was remarkably tall, silky, beautifully formed, and of a soft mole-color; and around
his neck a collar formed of four small silver chains, bore an oval silver plate on which was
engraved in German text, "Ich Dien--Agla Gerome."

"I congratulate you upon the possession of such a treasure," said the visitor, with unfeigned
admiration,--as, with the eye of a connoisseur, he noted the fine points about the sleek, slim
animal, who eyed him suspiciously.

"Thank you. How is Elsie to-day?"

"More nervous than I have seen her since the accident, and some of her symptoms are rather
discouraging, though there is no immediate danger. Do not look so hopeless; she may be spared
to you for many months."

"Why will you not let me hope that she may ultimately recover?"

"Because it is utterly futile, and I have no desire to deceive you, even for an instant. Good
morning, Robert."

The gardener approached with a large basket filled with peaches and nectarines, and, taking
off his hat, bowed profoundly.

"My mistress ordered these placed in your buggy, as I believe our nectarines ripen earlier
than any others in the neighborhood."

"Thank you, Maclean. Mrs. Gerome is exceedingly kind, and I have an invalid sister who will
enjoy this beautiful fruit. Those nectarines would not disgrace Smyrna or Damascus, and are
the first of the season."

