XVI.--NOVEMBER, 1865.--NO. XCVII. Headings in large tables converted to letters with a legend.

WHY THE PUTKAMMER CASTLE WAS DESTROYED.

There is a test of truth in popular creeds and in human opinions generally which is prominently
put forward by Herbert Spencer, and has been more or less distinctly stated by other writers,
long before our time,--a very searching and trustworthy test.

It is, in substance, this:--Whatever doctrine or opinion has received, throughout a long succession
of centuries, the common assent of mankind, may be properly set down as being, if not absolutely
true in its usually received form, yet founded on truth, and having, at least, a great, undeniable
verity that underlies it.

If, however, there be conflicting details as to any doctrine, varying in form according to
the sect or the nation that entertains it, then the test is to be received as affirming the
grand underlying truth, but not as proving any of the conflicting varieties of investment in
which particular sects or nations may have chosen to clothe it.

Thus of the world's belief in the reality of another life, and in the doctrine of future reward
and punishment.

In some form or other, such a faith has existed in every age and among almost every people.
Charon and his boat might be the means of conveyance. Or the believer, dying in battle for
the creed of the Faithful, might expect to wake up in a celestial harem peopled with Houris.
Or the belief might embody the matchless horrors painted by Dante; his dolorous city with the
terrible inscription over its entrance-gate: "Lasciate ogni speranza, voi ch'entrate."

Again, the conception might be of a long unconscious interval after death, succeeded at last
by a resuscitation; or it might be of another world, the supplement and immediate continuation
of this, into which Death, herald, not destroyer, ushers us even while human friends are yet
closing our eyes and composing our limbs. It might be of the Paradise in which, on the very
day of the crucifixion, the penitent thief was to meet the Saviour of mankind; or it might
be of that Heaven, yet increate or unpeopled, seen by some in long, distant perspective, shadowed
forth in such lines as these:--

    "That man, when laid in lonesome grave,
      Shall sleep in Death's dark gloom,
    Until the eternal morning wake
      The slumbers of the tomb."

Yet again, the idea may be of a Future of which the denizens shall be, on some Great Day, tried
as before an earthly court, doomed as by an earthly tribunal, and sentence pronounced against
them by a presiding God, who, of his own omnipotent will, decides to inflict upon sinners condign
punishment, in measure far beyond all earthly severity,--torment in quenchless flames, with
no drop of water to cool the parched tongue, for ever and ever.

In other words, we may conceive, as to human destiny in another world, either of punishments
optional and arbitrary, growing out of the indignation of an offended Judge who hates and requites
sin, or of punishments natural and inherent, growing out of the very nature of sin itself,
as delirium tremens requites a long career of intemperance. We may conceive of punishments
which are the awards of judicial vengeance; or we may believe in those only which are the inevitable
results of eternal and immutable law, a necessary sequence in the next life to the bad passions
and evil deeds of this.

Those who incline to this latter aspect of the Great Future, as the scene of reward or punishment
supervening in the natural order of things, may chance to find interest, beyond mere curiosity,
in the following strange narrative.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is not, perhaps, a country more rife in legends of haunted houses than Germany. No province
but has its store of them. Many, drawn by tradition from the obscurity of the past, have lost,
if they ever possessed, any claim to be regarded except as apocryphal. But others, of a recent
date and better attested, cannot be disposed of in so summary a manner.

In furnishing a specimen of this latter class, I depart from a rule which I think it well to
observe in regard to original narratives of character so marvellous: to record such, namely,
only when they can be procured direct from the lips of the witnesses themselves. This comes
to me at second hand. I had no opportunity of cross-questioning the actors in the scenes narrated.
Yet I had the story from a gentleman of high respectability: the principal Secretary of the
---- Legation at Naples: and his sources of information were direct and authentic.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the southeastern portion of Pomerania, at no great distance from the frontier of the province
of West Prussia, and in the vicinity of the small town of Bütow, there stood, not many years
since, an ancient château. It was the ancestral residence of an old Pomeranian family of baronial
rank; and the narrative of its destruction, with the causes which led thereto, is curious and
remarkable.

Its former owner, the Baron von Putkammer, after leading a wild and dissolute life, had expired
within its walls. For years previously, many a mysterious story, fraught with dark hints of
seduction and infanticide, had been whispered over the surrounding country; and when at last
death arrested the Baron's profligate career, some reported that he had been strangled in requital
of outrage committed,--others, that the Devil had taken home his own, as they had long expected.

His estate went to a relative of the same name, who granted the enjoyment of it to his eldest
son, heir to the title. This young man, after a time, arrived to take possession. He found
in the château the administrator of the deceased Baron's estate.

It was late, the first night, before he went to bed. Yet he was scarcely undressed, when he
heard, through the stillness of the night, the approach of a carriage, at first rolling over
the sharp gravel of the avenue, then entering the paved court-yard. This was succeeded by the
noise of the front door opening, and the distinct sound of steps on the principal staircase.

Young Putkammer, surprised at this unseasonable visit, yet supposing it some friend who had
been benighted, hastily donned his dressing-gown, and, with light in hand, stepped to the landing.
Nothing to be seen there! But he heard behind him the opening of a door leading into the principal
gallery of the château,--a long hall which for some time had been out of use. It had been employed
by the former owner of the castle as a banqueting-room, was hung with old family portraits,
and, as the young man had noticed during the day, was so completely incumbered with furniture,
which had been temporarily stored there, that no one could pass through it.

He returned in great surprise, which was much increased when he found the door of the gallery
in question closed and locked. He listened, and heard quite distinctly, within the room, the
noise of plates and dishes and the clatter of knives and forks. To this, after a time, succeeded
the sound of shuffling cards and the rattle of money, as if thrown on the table in the course
of the game.

More and more astonished, he awoke his servant, and bade him listen at the door and tell him
what he heard. The terrified valet reported the same sounds that had reached his master's ears,
Thereupon the latter told him to arouse the administrator and request his presence.

When this gentleman appeared, the young nobleman eagerly asked if he could furnish any explanation
of this strange disturbance.

"I was unwilling," said he, in reply, "to anticipate what you now witness, lest you might imagine
I had some interested motive to prevent your coming hither. We are all familiar with these
sounds. They occur every night at about the same hour. And we have sought in vain any natural
explanation of their constant recurrence."

"Have you the key of the gallery?"

"Here it is."

The door was unlocked and thrown open. Silence and darkness! And when the lights were introduced,
not an object to be seen through the gloom, but the old furniture confusedly piled up over
the floor.

They closed and locked the door. Again the same sounds commenced: the clatter of dishes, the
noise of revelling, the clink of the gamblers' gold. A second time they opened the door, this
time quickly and suddenly; and a second time the sounds instantly ceased, and the hall, untenanted
except by the silent portraits on its walls, appeared before them, the same still and gloomy
lumber-room as before.

Baffled for the time, young Putkammer dismissed his attendants and retired to his chamber.
Erelong he heard the door of the gallery open, the heavy footsteps sound on the stairway, the
front door creak on its hinges,--and then the roll of the carriage, first over the stone pavement,
then along the gravelled avenue, till the sounds gradually died away in the distance.

The next night he was ready dressed and prepared with lights. When, about the same hour, the
noise of the approaching carriage was heard, he had the lights immediately carried to the top
of the stairway, and he himself half descended the stairs. Up the stairs and past his very
side came the footsteps; but neither living being nor spectral form could his eyes perceive.

The same noises in the old banqueting-hall. The same fruitless attempts to witness the revel,
or to get at the secret, if any, of the imposition.

The young man was brave and devoid of superstition. Yet, in spite of himself, these mysterious
sounds, renewed night after night, irritated his nerves, and preyed upon his quiet. He thought
to break through the spell by inviting a party of living guests. They came, to the number of
thirty or forty; but not for their presence did the invisible revellers intermit their nocturnal
visit. All heard the approach of the carriage, the steps ascending the staircase, the sounds
of revelry in the hall. And all, when the opened door disclosed, as wont, but darkness and
silence, turned away with a shudder,--and to the subsequent invitation of their host to favor
him again with their company replied by some shallow apology, which he perfectly understood.

Thus deserted by his friends, and subjected, night after night, to the same ghastly annoyance,
the young man found his health beginning to suffer, and decided to endure it no longer.

Returning to his father, he informed him that he would receive with gratitude the rents of
the property, but only on condition that he was not required to reside in its haunted château.

The father, ridiculing what he termed his son's superstitious weakness, declared that he would
himself take up his residence there for a time, assured that he could not fail to discover
the true cause of the sounds that had driven off its former occupants.

But the result belied his expectations. Like his son, he never could see anything. But the
selfsame sounds nightly assailed his ears. He caused the hall to be cleared out and occupied
daily. So long as it was lighted, and there was any one within it, no sounds were heard; and
by thus occupying it all night, the disturbance could be averted. But as often as it was closed
or left in darkness, the invisible revel recommenced at the wonted hour, preceded by the same
preliminaries, terminating in the same manner.

Nothing was left untried to penetrate the mystery, and to detect the trick, if to trickery
the disturbances were due. But every effort to obtain an explanation of the phenomena utterly
failed. And the father, like the son, after a few weeks' struggle against the nightly annoyance,
found his nervous system unable to cope with this constant strain upon it, and left the château,
determined never again to enter its walls.

The next expedient was to rent it to those whom the fame of its ghostly reputation had not
reached. But this was unavailing, except for a brief season. No tenant would remain beyond
a week or ten days. This plan, therefore, was abandoned in despair; the principal rooms were
closed; and the building remained for years untenanted, except by one or two unwilling dependants.

Finally the proprietor, deeming all change hopeless, and finding that the keeping up of the
château was a mere useless expense, resolved to destroy it. The dead had fairly driven out
the living. He had it pulled down; and a few low, ruined walls alone remained to mark the place
where it stood.

Still, even within these deserted ruins, the same sounds of nightly revelry were declared to
have been heard by those who were bold enough to approach them at the midnight hour. When this
was reported to the proprietor, he determined, if possible, to outroot this last remnant of
disturbance. Accordingly, he caused to be erected, out of the remaining materials of the château
and on the spot where it had stood, a small chapel, now to be found there, a mute witness of
the story I have here told.

The chapel was completed and consecrated in the year 1844. Even while the rites attending its
consecration were in progress, strange and unwonted noises disturbed the congregation; but
from that time on they ceased; and the chapel has since been entirely free from any such.

A relative of the proprietor, a young officer in the Prussian army, was present at the consecration,
himself witnessed the noises in question, and had previously heard, from the parties themselves,
all the former occurrences. He it was who related the circumstances to my informant, the Baron
von P----, a gentleman of a grave and earnest character, whose manner, in repeating them to
me, evinced sincerity and conviction. But it is not merely upon his authority that the details
of the narrative rest. They are, it would seem, of public notoriety in Pomerania; and hundreds
of persons in the neighborhood, as my informant declared, can yet be found to testify, from
personal observation, to the general accuracy of the above narration.[A]

The most salient point in this story is the practical and business part of it,--the actual
pulling down of the château, as a last resort, to get rid of the disturbance. Mere fancy is
not wont to lead to such a result as that. The owner of a piece of valuable property is not
likely to destroy it for imaginary cause. Interest is a marvellous quickener of the wits, and
may be supposed to have left no stone unturned, before assenting to such a sacrifice.

I inquired of the gentleman to whom I am indebted for the above narrative if there were no
skeptical surmises in regard to the origin of the disturbance. He replied, that he had heard
but one,--namely, that the administrator of the deceased Baron's estate might, from motives
of interest and to have the field to himself, have resorted to a trick to scare the owners
from the premises.

It is beyond a doubt that such devices have been successfully employed ere now for similar
purpose. An example may be found in the story of the monks of St. Bruno, and the shrewd device
they employed to obtain from King Louis the Saint the grant of one of his ancestral palaces.
It was in this wise. The clanking of chains succeeded, together with the howlings of persons
as in great pain. Then a ghastly spectre, in pea-green, with long, white beard and serpent's
tail, appeared at the principal windows, shaking his fist at the passers-by. This went on for
months.

The King, to whom all these wonders were duly reported, deplored the scandal, and sent commissioners
to look into the affair. To these the six monks of Chantilly, indignant that the Devil should
play such pranks before their very faces, suggested, that, if they could but have the palace
as a residence, they would undertake speedily to cure it of all ghostly intrusion. A deed,
with the royal sign-manual, conveyed Vauvert to the monks of St Bruno. It bears the date of
1259. From that time all disturbances ceased,--the green ghost, according to the creed of the
pious, being laid to rest forever under the waters of the Red Sea.[B]

Some will surmise that the story of the castle of Putkammer is but a modified version of that
of the palace of Vauvert. It may be so. One who was not on the spot, to witness the phenomena
and personally to verify all the details, cannot rationally deny the possibility of such an
hypothesis. Yet I find little parallel between the cases, and difficulties, apparently insuperable,
in the way of accepting such a solution of the mystery.

The French palace was deserted, and nothing was easier than to play off there, unchallenged,
such commonplace tricks as the showing of colored lights, the clanking of chains, shrieks,
groans, and a howling spectre with beard and tail,--all in accordance with the prejudices of
that age; nor do we read that any one was bold enough to penetrate, during the night, into
the scene of the disturbance; nor had the King's commissioners any personal motive to urge
a thorough research; nor had a pious sovereign, the owner of a dozen palaces, any strong inducement
to refuse the cession of one of these, already untenanted and useless, to certain holy men,
the objects of his veneration.

Very different, in every respect, is the affair of the Pomeranian castle. It is a narrative
of the skeptical nineteenth century, that sets down all ghost-stories as nursery-tales. The
owner, and his son, the future possessor, each at separate times and for weeks, reside in the
castle, and occupy themselves in repeated attempts to discover whether they have been imposed
on. The selfsame trick, if trick it was, is repeated night after night, without variation.
The roll of the approaching carriage-wheels, first along the gravelled avenue, then over the
paved court-yard, while no carriage was visible,--how were such sounds to be imitated? The
fall of footsteps, unaccompanied by aught in bodily form, up the lighted stairway, and past
the very side of the bold youth who stepped down to meet them,--what human device could successfully
simulate these? The sound of the opening gallery-door and the noises of the midnight orgies,
with full opportunity to examine every nook and corner of the scene whence, to every ear, the
same identical indications came,--how, in producing and reproducing these, could trickery,
time after time, escape detection? Both father and son, it is evident, had their suspicions
aroused; and both, as evidently, were men of courage, not to be blinded by superstitious panic.
Is it a probable thing that they would destroy an old and valued family mansion, without having
exhausted every conceivable expedient to detect imposture?

Nor was this imposture, if as such we are to regard it, conducted in approved form, after the
orthodox fashion. It assumed a shape contrary to all usually received ideas. No spectre clanking
its chains; no lights burning blue; no groans of the tormented; no ordinary getting-up of a
ghostly disturbance. But a mere succession of sounds, indicating, if we are to receive and
interpret them literally, the periodical return from the world of spirits of some of its tenants,
restless and unblest. Was this the machinery a mystifier was likely to select?

Such are the difficulties which attend the hypothesis of a concerted plan of deception. They
will be overlooked by those who have made up their minds that communications between this world
and the next are impossible, and who will content themselves with pronouncing, that, though
they cannot detect the mode of the imposture, yet imposture of some kind or other it plainly
must have been.

And such skeptics will very properly remind us of other difficulties in the way of accepting
as a reality the alleged phenomena. What have the spirits of the departed to do with conveyances
resembling those of earthly structure? Are there incorporeal carriages and horses? Can grave
men admit such fancies as these?[C] Or is all this, even if genuine, only symbolical,--sounds
without objective counterpart? Then what becomes of the positive character of this narrative,
as a lesson, as a warning to us? The whole degenerates into an acted parable. It fades into
the idle pageantry of a dream. Thus we lose ourselves in shadowy conjecture.

But, none the less, the facts, if facts they be, remain to be dealt with. And if at last we
concede the ultramundane origin of these manifestations, whether as objective reality or only
as truth-teaching allegory, what a field is opened to our speculations regarding the realms
of spirit and the possible punishments there in store for those who, by degrading their natures
in this world, may have rendered themselves unfit for happiness in the next,--and who, perhaps,
still attracted to earth by the debasing excesses they once mistook for pleasure, may be doomed,
in the phantom repetition of their sins, to detect their naked reality, to have stamped on
their consciousness the vileness of these without the brutal gratifications that veiled it,
the essence of vice shorn of its sensual halo, the grossness without the glitter: if so, a
terrible expiation!

I beg it may not be imagined, that, because I see grave difficulties in the way of regarding
this case as one of imposture, I therefore set it up as proof of a novel theory regarding future
punishments. A structure so great cannot be erected on foundation so slender. I but furnish
it as a chance contribution towards the probabilities of ultramundane intercourse,--as material
for thought,--as one of those hints which future facts may render valueless, but which, on
the other hand, other observed phenomena may possibly serve to work out and corroborate and
explain.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] I find in my journal the following:--"August 17, 1857. Read over to the Baron von P----
the Putkammer narrative; and he assented to its accuracy in every particular."

[B] This story is given in Garinet's Histoire de la Magie en France, p. 75.

[C] Yet in a recent case, occurring in England, and authenticated in the strongest manner,
the "sound of carriages driving in the park when none were there" is one of the incidents given
on the authority of the lady who had witnessed the disturbances, and who furnishes a detailed
account of them. See "Facts and Fantasies," a sequel to "Lights and Sounds, the Mystery of
the Day," by Henry Spicer, London, 1853, pp. 76-101.

THE RHYME OF THE MASTER'S MATE.

FORT HENRY.

    None who saw it can forget
    How they went into the fight,
    Four abreast,--
    Thereby was the foe perplexed,--
    With the Essex on the right,
    That is nearest to the Fort,
    And the Cincinnati next,
    The St. Louis on her left,
    All so gallant and so deft,
    And the brave Carondelet.

    Boom, boom, from every bow!
    (They'll have to answer that!)
    From the Rebel bastions, now,
    There's a flash.
    Cool, keep cool, boys, don't be rash!
    Mind your eyes, as the old Boss said;
    Keep together and go ahead,--
    Not too high and not too low,
    Fire slow!

        Paff!
    Now we have it from the Fort,
    And the Rebels all a-crowing;
    While the devils'-echoes laugh,
    With a loonish thunder-lowing,
    After every gun's report:
    'Tisn't bird-shot they are throwing,--
        'Tisn't chaff!
        Ping! Ping!
    If you've ever seen the thing
    That can fly without a wing
    Swifter than the Thunder's bird,
    Lightning-clenching, lightning-spurred,--
    If you've ever heard it sing,
    You will understand the word,
    And look out;
    For, beyond a mortal doubt,
        It can sting!

        Thump!
    'D y' ever hear anything like it?
    Sounded very much like a ten-strike,--it
    Appears they're after a spare!
    Bet it made the old Boss jump,
    Or at any rate awfully screw up his brows,--
    Hit the pilot-house,
    And he's up there,--
    Must 'a' been a hundred-pounder,--
    Had the twang of a conical ball,--
    Would 'a' gone plumb through a ten-foot wall.
        Isn't the old Cinc. a trump?

    They meant that for a damper!
    Square it off with an eighty shell
    And a fifteen-second fuse,
    (With all the latest news!)--
    Pretty well done, boys, pretty well!
    Guess that'll be apt to tell
    'Em all about where it came from,
    And where it's a-going to,
    What it took its name from,
    And all it's a-knowing to!
        See 'em scamper!

    The Conestoga, the Tyler,
    And the Lexington, you know,
    Are in line a half a mile, or
    A little less, below,--
    Just this side of the Panther
    (Little woody island),
    They've their orders----Oh,
    But, after all, how can their
    Wooden-heads keep silent?
    Wonder 'f it don't make 'em feel bad,
    Even if they ain't all steel-clad,
    At being slighted so!

    'Tisn't so bad a day,
    Although it's a little cloudy,--
    Or rather, as one might say,
        Smoky, perhaps,--
    A little hazy, a little dubious,
    A little too sulphury to be salubrious.
    D' ye mind those thunder-claps?
    Do you feel now and then the least little bit
    Of an incipient earthquake fit,
    Accompanied with awful raps?
    But give 'em gowdy, give 'em gowdy,
    And it'll soon clear away!

    Old Boss ain't to be balked.--
    All this, you know,
    Was only the way (or nearly so)
    The boys talked,
    And felt and thought,
    (And acted, too,)
    The harder they fought
    And the hotter it grew.--

    But there was a Hand at the reel
        That nobody saw,--
    Old Hickory there at every keel,
    In every timber, from stem to stern,--
    A something in every crank and wheel,
    That made 'em answer their turn;
    And everywhere,
    On earth and water, in fire and air,
    As it were to see it all well done,
    The Wraith of the murdered Law,--
    Old John Brown at every gun!

    But the Fort was all in a roar:
    No use to talk, they had the range,--
    Which wasn't strange,
    Guess they'd tried it before,--
    And the pounding was not soft,
    But might well appall
    The boldest heart.
    Cool and calm,
    Trumpet in hand,
    Up in the cock-loft,
    Where 't was the hottest of all,
    Our brave old Commodore
    Took his stand,
    And played his part,
    Humming over some old psalm!

    Tut! did ye hear the hiss and scream
    Of that hot steam?
    It's the Essex that's struck,--
    She never had any luck:
    Ah, 'twas a wicked shot,
    And, whether they know it or not,
    It doesn't give us joy!

    Thorough an open port it flew,
    As with some special permit to destroy;
    And first, for sport,
    Struck the soul from that beautiful boy;
    Then through the bulkhead lunged,
    And into the boiler plunged,
    Scalding the whole crew!

    We know that the brave must fall,--
    But that was a sight to see:
        Twenty-three,
    All in an instant scalded and scathed,
    All at once in the white shroud swathed!
    A low moan came from the deck
    Of the drifting wreck,--
        And that was all.

    How the traitors'll boast,
    As soon as they come to see her
    All adrift and aghast!--
    Hark! d' ye hear? d' ye hear?
    D' ye hear 'em shout?
    They see it already, no doubt.
    We shall have to count her out,--
    That white breath was her last,--
    She has given up the ghost!

    What does the old Boss think?
        Will he shrink?
    Will he waver or falter now?--
    A little shadow flits over his brow,
    For the sharp pang in his heart,--
    Flits over--and is gone,--
    And a light looms up in his old gray eye,
    Whether you see it or not,
    That is like a sudden dawn
        In a stormy sky!

    What does he think?
    What will he do?--
    Well! he don't say!
    But I'll tell you what,
    You can bet your life,
    As you would your knife,
    And your wife, too,
        He'll do
    (And put 'em up at once!)--
    He'll run these boats right up to their guns,
    And take that Fort, or sink!

    But, oh--oh, it was hot!
    So thick and fast the solid shot
    Upon our iron armor played,
    It kept, like thunder, a kind of time--
    Devil's tattoo or gallopade--
    That, like an awful, awful rhyme,
        Rang in the ear;
    And they sent us cheer after cheer.

    But the boys had been to school,
    And their guns were not cool;
    For they knew what Cause they served,
    And not a man of 'em swerved!
    But on, right on, they swept,
    And from every grim bow-port
    Their nutmegs and shell-barks leaped
    Into the jaws of the Fort!
    And (to give her, perhaps, a chance to breathe)
    Knocked out some of her big, black teeth!
    And (to raise a better crop, no doubt,
    Than was ever raised there before)
    Ploughed her up into awful creases,
        Inside and out!--
    For now they were up and doing the chore
    At only four hundred yards,
    And the death-dealing shreds and shards
    Of our shell were tearing 'em all to pieces!

    Hurrah for the brave old Flag!
    To triumph see her ride!--
    Ha, ha! they dodge and duck,--
    The Snake's expiring!
    Their gunners run and hide,--
    By heaven, they've struck!
    Down comes the rattlesnake rag
    By the run,--
    Stop the firing!
    The work is done!--

    Anyhow, she'll do for batter!--
    You see now, Butternuts, you were plucky;
    But that ain't "what's the matter,"--
    Not by a long shot!
    No, no,--no! I'll tell you what--
    And you mustn't take it at all amiss--
    I'll tell you what the matter is:
    'Tain't because you were born unlucky,
    (Bear in mind,)
    Nor that you've good eyes and we are blind,--
    Nothing of the kind,--
    But it's something else, if it isn't more:
    The reason--pardon!--you had to cotton
    Was simply this: Your Cause was rotten,--
    Rotten to the very core:
    That's what's the matter!

    But you ought to 'a' heard our water-dogs yelp!--
    Just an hour and fifteen minutes!--
    (Twitter away, you English linnets!)
    Horizontal and perpendicular,
    Fair and square, without any help,--
    That is, any in particular,--
    The old ferry wash-tubs of the West,
    With some new-fashioned hoops, for a little test,
    And a few old pounders from--Kingdom Come,
    And nothing for suds but the "Nawth'n scum,"
    Made these "gen'l'men" turn as white
    As a head o' hair in a single night!
    Cleaned their army completely out,
    (We're going to give that another wipe!)
    On the double-quick, by the shortest route,--
    Wrung their stronghold from their gripe,--
    Brought their garrison right to taw,
    And made 'em get down to the "higher law"!

    So that when Grant and his boys came up,
    (There's places enough for a man to die!)
    Swearing that we had "spoiled" their "sport,"
    With a quiet twinkle in his eye,
    Old Boss asked 'em to come in and sup,
    And set 'em to house-keeping in the Fort!--
    But all the old fellow could say or do,
    They'd still keep a-going it: "Bully for you!"

    "Bully" for Grant and for Foote!--
    E'en if the voice must tremble,--
    And "bully" for all who helped 'em to do 't!
    Bully for Porter and Stemble!
    For Paulding and for Walke,--
    For Phelps, for Gwin, and for Shirk!--
    But what's the use to talk?
    They were all of 'em up to the work!
    Bully for each brave tub
    That bore the Union Blue!
    And for every mother's son
    Of every gallant crew,
    Whatever his color or name,
    Who, when it came to the rub,
    Shall be found to have been game!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Such was the Rhyme of the Master's Mate,
    Just as they found it in the locker,
    With this at the foot:--
        "It's getting late,
    And I hear a pretty loud Knock at the knocker!
    Captain, if I should chance to fall,
    Try to send me home. Good bye!" That's all,--
    Excepting the date, the name, and rank:--
      "Feb. 12th, '62, ---- ----,
        Master's Mate."

    All next day a great black Cloud
    Hung over the land from coast to coast;
    And the next, the Knocking was "pretty loud,"--
    With a sudden Eclipse, as it were, of the sun,--
    And the earth, all day, quaked--"Donelson!"
    But the next was the deadliest day of all,
    And the Master's Mate was not at Call!
    Yet nobody seemed to wonder why,--
    There was something, perhaps, the Master knew
    Far better than we, for his Mate to do,--
    And the Day went down with a bloody sky!

    But when the long, long Night was past,
    And our Eagle, sweeping the traitor's crag,
    Circled to victory up the dome,
    The great Reveille was heard at last!--
    They wrapped the Mate in his country's flag,
    And sent him in glory home!

THE VISIBLE AND INVISIBLE IN LIBRARIES.

A visible library is a goodly sight. We do not underrate the external value of books, when
we say it is the invisible which forms their chief charm. Sometimes rather too much is said
about "tall copies," and "large-paper copies," and "first editions," the binding, paper, type,
and all the rest of the outside attraction, or the fancy price, which go to make up the collector's
trade. The books themselves feel a little degraded, when this sort of conversation is carried
on in their presence: some of them know well enough that occasionally they fall into hands
which think more "of the coat than of the man who is under it." We must, however, be honest
enough to confess that we are ourself a bibliomaniac, and few possessions are more valued than
an old manuscript, written on vellum some five hundred years ago, of which we cannot read one
word. Nor do we prize less the modern extreme of external attraction,--volumes exquisitely
printed and adorned, bound by Rivière, in full tree-marbled calf, with delicate tooling on
the back, which looks as if the frost-work from the window-pane on a cold January morning had
been transmuted into gold, and laid on the leather. Ah, these are sights fit for the gods!

Nevertheless, we come back to our starting-point, that what is unseen forms the real value
of the library. The type, the paper, the binding, the age, are all visible; but the soul that
conceived it, the mind that arranged it, the hand that wrote it, the associations which cling
to it, are the invisible links in a long chain of thought, effort, and history, which make
the book what it is.

In wandering through the great libraries of Europe, how often has this truth been impressed
upon the mind!--such a library as that in the old city of Nuremberg, housed in what was once
a monastery, and looking so ancient, quaint, and black-lettered, visibly and invisibly, that,
if the old monk in the legend who slipped over a thousand years while the little bird sang
to him in the wood, and was thereby taught, what he could not understand in the written Word,
that a thousand years in God's sight are but as a day,--if that old monk had walked out of
the Nuremberg monastery and now walked back again, he might almost take up the selfsame manuscript
he had laid down a thousand years ago.

What invisible heads have ached, and hands become weary, over those vellum volumes, with their
bright initial letters! What hearts have throbbed over the early printed book! How triumphantly
was the first copy, now worm-eaten and forgotten, contemplated by the author! How was that
invisible world which surrounded him to be stirred by that new book!

We remember looking into one of the cell-like alcoves arranged for students in a college library
at Oxford, and watching a fellow of the college (a type of scholars, grown old among books,
rarely found in our busy land) crooning over a strange black-letter folio, and laughing to
himself with a sort of invisible chuckle. The unseen in that volume was revealed to us through
that laugh of the old bookworm, and quite unseen we partook of his amusement. Another alcove
was vacant; a crabbed manuscript, just laid down by the writer, was on the desk. He was invisible;
but the watchful guardian at the head of the room saw us peering in, and warned us with a loud
voice not to enter. Safely might we have been permitted to do so, for we could hardly have
deciphered at a glance all the wisdom that lurked in the open page; yet that hidden meaning,
invisible to us, was of real value to the unseen writer.

There are many incidents connected with the visible and invisible of libraries existing in
the great houses of England, which could point a moral in sketches of this subject. One, concerning
a pamphlet found at Woburn Abbey, has a peculiar interest.

Lord William Russell, eldest son of Francis, fourth Earl of Bedford, after completing his education
at Oxford, and travelling abroad for two years, returned home in the winter of 1634. Young,
handsome, accomplished, and the eldest son of the House of Russell, the fashionable world of
London marked him as a prize in the matrimonial speculations of the times, and was quite in
a flutter to know which of the reigning beauties, would captivate the young Lord Russell. Lady
Elizabeth Cecil, Lady Dorothy Sidney, Lady Anne Carr were the rival belles upon whom the eyes
of the world were fixed. It was with no small consternation that the Earl of Bedford soon found
that the affections of his son had been attracted by Lady Anne Carr, the daughter of the Earl
and Countess of Somerset, more widely known as Robert Carr and Lady Essex. The Earl of Bedford
had taken a prominent part in the Countess's trial, and participated in the general abhorrence
of her character. In vain his son pleaded the innocence of the daughter, who, early separated
from her parents, knew nothing of their history or their crimes. The Earl of Bedford shrunk
with a feeling of all but insurmountable aversion to such an alliance; and not until the king
interceded for the youthful lovers, did the father yield a reluctant consent, and their marriage
was celebrated. The undisturbed happiness and harmony in which the parties lived reconciled
the Earl to the connection; he became much attached to his beautiful daughter-in-law; and in
the sweetness and domestic purity of her character he could sometimes forget her parents. Lady
Anne's life passed quietly in the discharge of the duties of a wife and mother, and of those
which devolved upon her when her husband became fifth Earl of Bedford in 1641. In 1683, their
eldest son, Lord William Russell, died on the scaffold.

"There is a life in the principles of freedom," says the historian of the House of Russell,
"which the axe of the executioner does not, for it cannot, touch." This great thought must
have strengthened the souls of the parents under so terrible a trial. The mother's health,
however, sunk under the blow, which, in the sympathy of her celebrated daughter-in-law, the
heroic Lady Rachel Russell, she endeavored to sustain. One day, seeking, perhaps, some book
to cheer her thoughts, Lady Bedford entered the library, and in an anteroom seldom visited
chanced to take a pamphlet from the shelves. She opened its pages, and read there, for the
first time, the record of her mother's guilt. The visible in that page rent aside the invisible
veil which those who loved Lady Bedford had silently woven over her whole life, as a shield
from a terrible truth. She was found by her attendants senseless, with the fatal book open
in her hand. The revelations of the past, the sorrows of the present, were too much for her
to bear, and she died. Lady Rachel Russell, writing from Woburn Abbey at the time, states her
conviction that Lady Bedford's reason would not have sustained the shock received from the
contents of the pamphlet, even had her physical powers rallied.

Turning aside one moment from our subject, we stand in awe before the striking contrast presented
by the characters of two women, each so closely linked with Lady Bedford's life,--the one who
heard her first breath, and the other who received her last sigh. If Lady Somerset causes us
to shrink with horror from the depth of depravity of which woman's nature is capable, let us
thank God that in Lady Rachel Russell we have a witness of the purity, self-sacrifice, and
holiness a true woman's soul can attain.

In the library at Wilton House, the seat of the Sidneys, we were shown a lock of Queen Elizabeth's
hair, hidden for more than a hundred years in one of the books. A day came when some member
of the family took down an old volume to see what treasures of wisdom lurked therein. "She
builded better than she knew," for between the leaves lay folded a paper which contained a
faded lock of the once proud Queen Bess. How it came there, and by whose hand it was placed
in the book, is one of the invisible things of the library, but the writing within the paper
authenticated the relic beyond doubt; and it is now shown as one of the visible treasures of
the library of Wilton House.

Magdalen College, Cambridge, contains the Pepysian Library,--placed there by the will of Pepys,
under stringent conditions, in default of whose fulfilment the bequest falls to Trinity. One
of the fellows of Magdalen is always obliged to mount guard over visitors to the library. Such
an escort being provided, we ascended the stairs, and found ourselves in the presence of the
bookcases which once adorned Pepys's house in London, containing the "three thousand bookes"
of which he was so proud. The bookcases are handsome, with small mirrors let into them, in
which, doubtless, Mrs. Pepys often surveyed the effect of those "newegownes" which pleased
her husband's vanity so well, although he rather reluctantly paid the cost. There, too, is
the original manuscript of that entertaining Diary, wherein Pepys daguerrotyped the age in
which he lived, and himself with all his sense and nonsense. That Diary would have remained
one of the invisible treasures of libraries, for it was written in a cipher of his own invention,
but, by a very curious chance, the key to that cipher was unintentionally betrayed through
comparison with another paper, and the journal was brought to light, and many things made visible
which the writer dreamed not of confiding to future ages. Pepys was an indefatigable, and,
we cannot but half suspect, an unscrupulous collector. Volumes of autographs, great scrap-books
filled with prints, tickets, invitations, ballads, let us into the visible and invisible of
the reign of Charles II. A manuscript music-book, elegantly bound, and labelled, "Songs altered
to suit my Voice," carried us back to the days when, after going to the play in the afternoon,
Pepys and some of his companions "came back to my house and had musique."

Pepys certainly never meant to be one of the invisible things in his own library, for every
book contains an engraving from his own portrait. Should he ever come back to look after the
possessions he so much valued, he can surely be at no loss to find the likeness of the form
he once wore. If a spirit can retain any human vanity and self-importance, his must certainly
be unpleasantly surprised that the great collection looks small in these days, and attracts
but little attention. To antiquaries and lovers of the odd and curious it must ever be valuable;
but the obligation of having a fellow of Magdalen at one's elbow much interferes with that
quiet, cozy "mousing" so dear to the soul of a bibliomaniac. We heartily wished that we could
have made an appointment with the shade of old Pepys, and, returning to the library in the
stillness of midnight, have found him ready to show off his collections. That would have been,
indeed, the visible and the invisible of the Pepysian Library. The Cambridge men of to-day
are too busy about their own affairs to look much into Pepys's collections, which remain quietly
ensconced under the guardianship of Old Magdalen, one of the visible links between the seen
and unseen in libraries.

Nestled quietly in an old Elizabethan house, among the great trees at Wotton, is the library
of John Evelyn. Belonging to the same age as that of Pepys, but collected by a man of widely
different tastes and character, there is much outwardly to charm as well as to elevate the
mind in the influences shed around it. Here are tall copies and folios of grave works, classic
and historical, the solid literary food of a man who kept his soul pure amid a corrupt age,
books as harmonious with the reflective mind of Evelyn as were the grand old woods of Wotton
with the refined tastes of the author of "Sylva." Here is preserved the original manuscript
of Evelyn's Journal, the paper yellow with the mellow tints of two hundred autumns, yet the
thought as fresh as if written yesterday. Near the manuscript is seen the prayer-book which
Charles I. held in his hand when he mounted the scaffold at Whitehall. There is much of the
visible and invisible in that quaint old library at Wotton.

The internal treasures of Christian faith opened a wide field for the outward decoration of
religious books. "The Hours" (meaning devotional hours) of kings and queens are magnificent
specimens of chirography, showing also the skill of artists in the earliest centuries. The
art of preparing these volumes was divided into two branches: that of the Miniatori, or illuminators,
who furnished the paintings, the borders, and arabesques, and also laid on the gold; and that
of the Miniatori calligrafi, who wrote the whole of the book, and drew the initial letters
of blue and red with their fanciful ornaments. Many of the great libraries of Europe contain
these splendid manuscripts, and although but one page is open to the passing visitor, which
he sees "through a glass darkly," yet that page is written over and illuminated with associations
and memories. Could a glance reveal thoughts which have looked out of eyes bending over these
pages, when they were held in the hand of their first owner, what messages from the invisible
would be received! Some of these rare and regal possessions have gone a little astray, and
wandered about in the wilderness of the world, as is confirmed by an anecdote we recently received
from good authority. A magnificent volume, illustrated by views of French châteaux of the Middle
Ages, presented to a princess of the House of Bourbon, was known to have existed. This manuscript
had disappeared, and for more than a hundred years it could not be traced. The Duc d'Aumale,
son of Louis Philippe, while in Genoa, was informed (by a person who called upon him for that
purpose) that there was for sale in that city a valuable illuminated manuscript, and, as the
Duke was known to be a collector of rare books, it would be shown to him. He accordingly followed
his informant to an obscure part of the city, and into an old house, where the manuscript was
produced. What was his astonishment, when he beheld before him the lost Bourbon manuscript,
so long sought for in vain! He immediately became its purchaser; and whatever secret history
belongs to the volume, connected with the time when it was invisible, it is now one of the
most treasured realities in the magnificent library at Orleans House.

In the illuminated pages of many of these old manuscripts there lurks much more, doubtless,
than meets the eye. Thus, that famous poem of the Middle Ages, the "Romance of the Rose," has
passed for a mere fanciful allegory, or love-story. Splendidly illuminated copies of this Romance
are well known. The British Museum possesses one, which Dibdin calls "the cream of the Harleian
Collection": it is in folio, and replete with embellishments. He also mentions another copy,
at that time belonging to Mr. North, the frontispiece of which represents Francis I. surrounded
by his courtiers, receiving a copy from the author. Only the visible of the illuminated volume
was probably opened to the eyes of Francis, or even of Dibdin. A later student pronounces the
Romance to be a complete specimen of Hermetic Philosophy, concealing great truths under its
allegory,--the Rose being the symbol of philosophic gold.

Such is the view taken of this Romance by our distinguished fellow-countryman, Major-General
Hitchcock, who found time, in the interval between two wars, to collect and study three hundred
volumes of Hermetic Philosophy, coming forth therefrom as a champion in defence of a much misunderstood
class. This ingenious work, entitled "Alchemy and the Alchemists," published in 1857, was written
to prove that the alchemists were not foolish seekers for sordid gold, nor vain believers in
the elixir of life, but philosophers of deep thought and high aims, who, in days when a man
dared not say his soul was his own, veiled in mystic language, perfectly understood by each
other, theological and philosophical truths, theories, and discoveries, which would have brought
them to the stake or the rack, had they been produced openly. "Man was the subject of alchemy,
and the object of the art was the perfection, or at least the improvement, of man." These were
the real Hermetic Philosophers. After them came men who, not knowing the meaning of the symbolic
language which concealed the spiritual truths, took the written word in a literal sense, and
went to work with crucibles and retorts, seeking the philosopher's stone and the elixir of
life, not knowing, indeed, the Scripture, that "the letter killeth, but the spirit maketh alive."

Such a theory as that advanced in "Alchemy and the Alchemists" opens a new chapter in the visible
and invisible of a library of Hermetic Philosophy.

The most ancient specimens of calligraphy extant are probably the Terence of the fourth century
and the Virgil of the fifth century, in the Vatican Library. Alas for those who have no open
sesame to that collection! We shall never forget our disappointment upon entering the Vatican.
We could not gaze even on the mouldy vellum or faded leather of old bindings, and saw nothing
but stupid modern painted cases, bodies quite unworthy of the souls they hid. Gladly would
we have laid aside our theory concerning unseen treasures, and looked that great collection
face to face.

"The taste for the external decoration of manuscripts," says Labarte, (whose interesting "Hand-Book
on the Arts of the Middle Ages" has been admirably translated by Mrs. Palliser,) "already existed
among the ancients. Marcus Varro called forth the praises of Cicero for having traced in his
book the portraits of more than seven hundred celebrated persons; Seneca, in his treatise 'De
Tranquillitate Animi,' speaks of books ornamented with figures; and Martial addresses his thanks
to Stertinius, who had placed his portrait in his library."

These ancient works of Art have vanished, none have survived the stormy passage of ages, yet
this casual mention of them carries us into the otherwise invisible past. We see the seven
hundred portraits in Marcus Varro's book, and walk into the library of Stertinius to give our
opinion of the portrait of Martial.

"The miniatures of manuscripts were long considered," says Labarte, "only as ornaments. Montfaucon
was the first to recognize their usefulness as historical documents. To possess manuscripts
of the Middle Ages with miniatures is in fact to possess a gallery of contemporaneous pictures."

The most beautiful specimen of ancient illuminated manuscript we have seen in this country
belongs to the Honorable Charles Sumner. It is a missal of the fifteenth century, of finest
quality. Several of the miniatures might well be claimed as the work of Van Eyck. The frontispiece
consists of the portrait of the lady for whose devotions the book was prepared. She kneels
before the Madonna, while her patron saint stands beside her. Beneath this celestial vision
is the heraldic shield of the lady's family, thus throwing in a glimpse of visible worldly
grandeur. The borders and arabesques of this manuscript are equal in execution to the miniatures,
and the missal is one of rare beauty.

Can we forbear alluding to that other treasure of Senator Sumner's collection,--the Album which
belonged to Camillus Cordoyn, who, more than two centuries ago, entertained guests at his house
as they journeyed into Italy? One of these, Thomas Wentworth, afterwards Lord Strafford, then
a young man gayly travelling about the world, wrote his name in the volume, little thinking
of the block and the axe which were to illustrate the closing chapter of his book of life.
The immortal Milton, on his return from Italy, was the guest of the same nobleman. What would
we not give for a look into that house at Geneva, and see this little volume laid before the
visitor! The glorious eyes of John Milton looked over its pages, and perhaps he listened to
the story of some of the distinguished personages, now all forgotten, whose names and heraldic
shields are there. Then he turned to a blank leaf, and wrote two lines from his own "Comus,"--

            "If Virtue feeble were,
    Heaven itself would stoop to her."

He signed his name on that 20th of June, 1639, and the host took back the book. And now, more
than two hundred years after, that page is held as priceless in this great republic beyond the sea.

We should speak gratefully of the externals of books, because for two long years our oculist
did not allow us to open them. We dared not go farther than their titles, yet even these were
talismans which revealed wide regions, and carried us from Indus to the Pole. We went with
Arthur Penrhyn Stanley to the Holy Land, discovered Nineveh with Layard, explored Art treasures
with Mrs. Jameson, plunged among icebergs with Parry. A volume of Belzoni bore us not only
to pyramids and mummies in Egypt, but away to a strange old hall "in Padua, beyond the sea."
Cabalistic paintings cover the walls, misty with age; lurking in one corner of the vast apartment
is a gigantic wooden horse, that figured at some public festival four hundred years ago, and
now pauses, ready to prance out of the mouldy past into the affrighted present; opposite stand
two Egyptian statues, cat-headed human figures, resting their hands on their stone knees. These
were gifts from Belzoni to his native city of Padua; and his handsome head in the Eastern turban,
turned into white marble, stands above the entrance-door.

Coming back from the Paduan hall, so weird and ghostly, we glance along the shelves at a long
row of volumes which bear De Quincey's name, and we need not open a page to feel the mysterious
spell of the opium-eater. Like one of those strange dreams of his seems a remembrance which
comes back to us with his name. A quaint, tall house in the old part of Edinburgh has admitted
us into a quiet apartment, where, as the twilight is creeping in through the windows, a small
gray man receives us, with graceful and tender courtesy. He converses with a felicity of language
like that of his printed pages, but in a voice so sweet, so low, so exquisitely modulated,
that the magical tone vibrates on the ear like music. It was De Quincey, who held us entranced
until darkness gathered around us, then bade us farewell, his kind words lingering on the air,
as, with a flickering candle in his hand, he flitted up the winding stair, and vanished away.

Another volume bears the name of William Wordsworth, and beneath his autograph he writes that
it was purchased at Bath from a circulating-library. It is that strange journal of the Margravine
of Bareith, sister of Frederic the Great, a sad story of those who dwell in kings' houses;
but we think only of Wordsworth, and of the viewless history of the book carried by the poet
from circulating in Bath to quiet rural Rydal Mount, and now having wandered over to New England.

A dainty volume near by bears the autograph of Rogers, and though the association is not so
purely imaginative, perhaps, as a poet should call up, yet it always brings to our mind the
breakfasts at his house, of which many of our friends have partaken, and related divers stories
concerning those morning refections. They are invisible feasts to us, for we never even picked
up the crumbs from them, except at second hand; yet this elegant little book knew all about
them, and heard what was said before, and also behind--the table-cloth.

Singular experiences connected with books are sometimes known to their owners, quite invisible
to others. In yonder corner are two volumes. Book-collectors know that they are rare, and the
uninitiated think they contain queer old wood-cuts. To us that corner is haunted; an invisible
lady hovers about those volumes. Once upon a time an order was given for those books, but the
answer came back from over the sea, that they were not to be had, or to be had only at rare
intervals on the breaking up of a library. To our no small surprise, very soon after this quietus
had been given to bibliomaniacal hopes, the books in question appeared before us in excellent
condition. We could hardly suppose that any one had been benevolent enough to break up a library
on purpose to oblige us, and we waited to hear a very odd story.

Soon after the letter had been sent, announcing the ill success of our commission, the writer
of it was in a bookshop in London, when a lady entered and desired an interview with the master.
After some private conversation, the lady returned to her carriage and drove away. The bookseller
remarked to his friend, that the lady had brought with her some books, which she desired to
part with. Our informant asked to see them, and, lo! the very volumes for which in our behalf
he had searched in vain: he immediately secured the prize, which was forwarded by the next steamer.

Can any one ask why the figure of the lady who brought those books to us three thousand miles
over the sea "haunts us like a shadow"? We see her ascend her invisible carriage, we go with
her to her invisible home, we meet her viewless husband;--here we shudder, but we recover ourselves;
we are convinced that he could not have been a book-collector, or she had not dared such a
deed. Then we puzzle ourselves about her unseen motives for selling the books. Had she gambled?
Had she bet on the losing horse at the Derby? Had she bought an expensive bonnet? Or was it
the impulse of some strong benevolent purpose? Why did she sell those books? Since she did
thus part with them, we thank her, and are content that by very strange combinations of circumstances,
blending the visible and invisible together, those books, viewless in her library, are now
apparent in our own.

Here is another volume which has also something mystical about it in its visible and invisible
effect. It is a copy of Dibdin's "Bibliomania," which belonged to Dawson Turner. A note in
his handwriting states that the tools required for the binding were used exclusively for Lord
Spencer, and that a view of Strawberry Hill will be found on its edges. Gilt edges, however,
are all that meet the eye; but turned by a skilful hand to the right light, the gilding vanishes,
and a picture of Strawberry Hill appears, painted with velvety softness. Such a nice bibliomaniacal
fancy must have delighted Dibdin; and as he was at one time librarian at Althorpe, he doubtless
was the medium of bestowing this charm upon the binding of his own work for his friend.

The invisible in libraries has ever seemed to us linked with those who have written or read
the books. If souls are allowed to return to their earthly haunts, a library would surely be
the place to meet them. For this reason we have cherished a firm belief in the apparition which
the distinguished librarian of the Astor Library beheld, and never desire to hear any commonplace
explanations concerning it; and on visiting the Astor collection, we were more desirous to
see the spot where the reading phantom appeared than all the rest of the building. Who shall
say that authors and students do not come back to the books which contain their invisible souls,
or spirits like themselves? Without venturing to invoke the sceptred sovereigns of literature,
or to call up the shades of the prophets and sibyls of elder time, yet at midnight what a circle
might come forth and visit the library! Scott and Burns and Byron, Burke and Fox and Sheridan,
all in one evening; clever, pretty Mrs. Thrale comes bringing Fanny Burney to meet Jane Austen
and Maria Edgeworth; Horace Walpole, patronizing Gray, Rogers, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats,
and Charles Lamb,--what a social club that would be! Ah, the librarian of the Astor is more
fortunate than we; these spirits are all invisible, and we catch not even at midnight the rustle
of the leaf they turn or the passing murmur of their voices. Yet within the library, ever ready
to meet us, their souls still linger; and when we open the visible book which enshrines it,
we find the hidden spirit.

A number of gentlemen once went together to a friend's house. While they awaited his entrance,
one of the party, being a lover of books, naturally turned to the shelves of the library. Without
any particular attraction to the title, he chanced to take down one of the volumes. As he opened
it, a sealed letter fell from between the leaves on the floor. He took it up, and, to his no
small astonishment, perceived that it was addressed to himself.

He called the attention of his companions to this strange circumstance. As it could be no breach
of decorum to break the seal of a letter addressed to one's self, he did so. The surprise was
increased by finding a bank-note within. The letter came from a well-known gentleman, and bore
the date of a year past. When the owner of the house entered, he found his guests in quite
a tumult of surprise and puzzle. At first he was quite as much at a loss as themselves to account
for this discovery. It was, however, remembered by the gentleman to whom the letter was addressed,
that about a year before he had applied to the writer for aid in some charity, but, having
many demands of the same kind to supply, he declined. Afterwards, as it appeared, he regretted
having done so, and had accordingly inclosed the money. Probably, soon after, he met the gentleman
in whose book it was found, (with whom he was on intimate terms,) and asked him to give the
letter as addressed. The receiver brought it home, laid it on his table, and forgot it. The
book lying open, it may be that the letter slipped between the leaves and the volume was returned
to the shelf. And there it had waited for more than a year, holding the invisible letter quite
safe, until the person to whom it was addressed took down, for the first time in his life,
a volume from those shelves, and received into his own hand the communication intended for
him. No one can wonder that the invisible in libraries has a strong hold on the faith of our
friend.

Although few may be so fortunate as to find bank-notes in letters addressed to themselves between
the leaves of books in libraries, yet we all have felt the sensation of discoverers of hidden
treasures. After carelessly looking at a volume which has stood on the shelves for years, we
open it and find within thoughts which appeal to our deepest experiences, high incentives to
our nobler energies, deep sympathy in our sorrows, sustaining words to help us on with our
life-work. How differently do we ever after regard the visible of that book! The invisible
has been revealed to us, and we almost wonder whether, if we had looked into it two or three
years before, we should have found there what now we prize so much. Perhaps not; for after
different experiences in life come different revelations from books. The pages which a few
years ago we might have glanced over with indifference now speak to us as if uttering the emotions
of our own souls.

Sometimes it is a work of fiction which, we open for the first time, the title of which has
been familiar to our eyes. Out of it invisible spirits walk. We are introduced to charming
people who never existed, and yet who become our daily companions. We go with them through
many trials, we rejoice with them, we know all their secrets, and share with them many of our
own. Is it possible, that, shut up between those covers, long unknown, all these existed which
have since made life brighter and better to us?

In Sterling's "Onyx Ring," Walsingham, the poet, takes down a volume from Sir Charles Harcourt's
library, and reads a charming romance, apparently from its pages. A lady of the company afterwards
turned to the same book, which proved to be a work of Jeremy Bentham's, and searched in vain
for the graceful narrative. Walsingham smiled at her perplexity, and said, "Those only find
who know where to look."

The invisible world of thought, and the invisible representation of it in books, have known
many changes since Cicero looked at the volume which Marcus Varro had illustrated; and from
an earlier civilization than Cicero's comes the exclamation of the soul-wearied Job, "Oh that
mine adversary had written a book!" Solomon also exclaims, "Of making many books there is no
end." He dreamed not of the extent to which the manufacture would be carried in these days.
On the other hand, how little we know of the literary world existing in the days of Job or
Solomon! and may we not be led by these exclamations to suspect not only a large supply of
books, but even the existence of an Arabian Review or a Dead-Sea Magazine?

The increase of wealth, and the restless activity of intellect in the new world which surrounds
us, lead naturally to the accumulation of libraries, both public and private. In our daily
walks we often pass dwellings which we know hold literary treasures. Sometimes the beauties
of Nature can be combined with those of Art, even in a city, around the library. We recall
one from the windows of which we look forth, not on crowded streets, but on the wide river
as it bends to the sea. Behind the distant hills the heavens are resplendent with the autumnal
hues of sunset, the water is aglow with reflected glories, while swooping and sailing over
the waves come the white sea-gulls. It is a leaf from the illuminated prayer-missal for all
eyes and hearts. The literary treasures of that friend's library have been elsewhere described,
some of them gifts from wise men, earnest women, world-worshipped poets, bearing on their leaves
the signatures of their authors' friendship. Other treasures are there, visible and invisible,
among which we would fain linger, but we must pass on. We enter another library, once filled
with rare and costly works, which taught of the wonderful structure of plants, from the hyssop
on the wall to the cedar of Lebanon. Gone now are these volumes, and vanished, too, is their
collector, whose wide and generous culture was veiled by the curtain of modesty and quietness.
His collections he bestowed upon a public institution, where the wonders of God's universe
will be a subject of study for all coming time. These he gave, and then went peacefully away
from our sight to learn yet wider and grander lessons at the feet of that Teacher who, when
he was on earth, bade his followers "consider the lilies of the field." Is not that library
as real to us as when the books filled its shelves, and we were welcomed by the gentle voice
of its master?

The crowds which form the living stream that surges through Washington Street and eddies around
the Old South Church seldom, perhaps, pause to think of that edifice as one of the links uniting
the memorable past of our country's history with the momentous present. Still less do they
who raise their eyes to the tower to learn the hour of the day imagine that there is an invisible
library connected with the familiar form of the belfry. Yet a romance of literary and historic
interest encircles it. At the time of the Revolution, Dr. Prince was pastor of the Old South
Church, and in the tower he kept his historical treasures along with the New England Library.
Among these volumes were Governor Bradford's letter-book and the manuscript of his "History
of the Plantation of Plymouth." During the siege of Boston, the British turned the Old South
into a riding-school, and the troopers had free scope to do what mischief they pleased. After
the evacuation of the town the library was found in a disordered condition, and the valued
manuscripts of Bradford were missing. Some time after, a person observed that the article he
had bought from a grocer in Halifax was wrapped in paper written over in a peculiar hand. He
deciphered enough to make him earnest to obtain what remained of the manuscript in the grocer's
possession. It proved to be fragments of the missing letter-book of Governor Bradford. Years
passed on until 1856, when the attention of an historical writer was attracted by a quotation,
in a note to an English work, from "a manuscript history of the Plantation of Plymouth, in
the Fulham Library." As the extract contained passages not found in any part of that history
known in America, it immediately occurred to those interested that this might be the missing
volume from the Prince Library. A correspondence was thereupon opened with the Bishop of London.
The handwriting of Bradford being authenticated, as well as that of Dr. Prince, which was found
in a memorandum, dated "June 28th, showing how he obtained it from Major John Bradford," there
could no longer remain a doubt that this was indeed the lost historical treasure. Part of the
manuscripts of Bradford had been carried by the British soldiers to Halifax, and sold at last
as waste-paper to a grocer; and the rest, after some history unknown, reached England and found
protection under the care of the Bishop of London. A copy of this manuscript is now in the
possession of the Boston Historical Society.

In the rooms of that society is preserved the Dowse Library. A rare collection of books, formed
by a man daily engaged in the mechanic craft of a leather-dresser, is a singular illustration
of the visible and invisible of libraries. We recall past days in Cambridge, when, beneath
the sign of a white wooden sheep, we entered the unpretending house which contained not only
the leather-dresser's shop, but a small gallery of pictures and this valuable library. We remember,
also, with grateful interest, the modest, but manly, welcome of the master of both the mechanic
craft and the treasures of art and literature, and how quietly he would give us a few words
about his books. The Dowse Library we visit is always there, and although much is visible in
the beautiful room where the bequest of the owner has been fittingly enshrined, yet its distinctive
charm is invisible.

The City Library of Boston has one feature entirely new in the visible of a great public collection.
A large portion of the books, under certain regulations, are circulated among the inhabitants
of the city, and thousands avail themselves of this privilege. Here, then, is opened a great
fountain of knowledge in the midst of a wide population: all may come, without money and without
price. The visible pages of learning, wisdom, science, truth, imagination, ingenious theory,
or deep conviction lie open not only to the eyes, but to the hearts and homes of a great people.
It is like the overflowing Nile, carrying sweet waters to irrigate many waste places, and clothing
the dry dust of common life with the flowers, the fruit, and the sustaining grain, springing
from invisible seeds cast by unseen hands into the wide field of the world.

     NOTE.--Since these pages were written, one who knew how to
     prize the visible and invisible of books has passed away. The
     silent library of George Livermore speaks eloquently of him.
     That collection, gathered with a love which increased as years
     advanced, includes ancient copies of the Bible of rarest
     values. His life was a book, written over with good deeds and
     pure thoughts, illuminated by holy aspirations. That volume is
     closed, but the spirit which rendered it precious is not
     withdrawn; living in many hearts, it will continue to be a
     cherished presence in the world, the home, and the library.

LETTER TO A YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER.

You know, dear M., it is said that in times of bankruptcy men go home to get acquainted with
their wives; perhaps it should be added that wives then go to get introduced to their kitchens.
But your sensible letter is an omen, little friend, that to you and H. this does not apply.
You will not wait for poverty to teach you economy, but will learn economy to ward off poverty.
So herewith I send a few of the culinary notes of the last two years; but neither of us is
to be taken for a bankrupt's wife, for all that. It is simply recognizing that you are alone
in new duties, and that cookery is an art which may not be gained even from that fountain of
knowledge, named by the Apostle Paul as one's husband. The successes of the art no one knows
better than he; but of the processes he will be found sublimely ignorant. There are but two
points in which you can defer to him,--punch and lobster-salad. These, like swearing and smoking,
are strictly masculine accomplishments.

If you had the thrifty maiden aunt kept in reserve by most families for an emergency, you would
kindly offer her a home at your house for a while. But since you have not, I will be as disagreeable
to you as she. So turn your glowing Spanish eyes toward me, instead of looking demurely about,
as people do when they are having old letters read to them.

Byron said he hated to see a woman eat; and there is a class of housekeepers who certainly
return the compliment upon men. These ethereal beings are forever sighing for life with appetite
left out. Like Lord Dundreary's lady-love, they are "so delicate," unless caught in the pantry
hastily devouring onions and beefsteak. To be hungry is so vulgar! One should live by nothing
grosser than inhalation, and should never have an appetite greater than that of a healthy bumble-bee.
But, thanks to the robust, latter-day theory, that the best saints have the best bodies, this
puerile class is diminishing. For who can doubt that the senses are entitled to their full
blossom? Gustation was meant to be delightful; and cooking is certainly half as good as tasting.
At times one may have longed for the old Roman custom of two meals a day, and going to bed
at chicken-time, bringing the hour of roast near the hour of roost; but this was probably in
families where there were three repasts, with lunch all the way between, and an incessant buying
of cookies from the baker, lest the children should go hungry. After this surfeit one pardons
a recoil. Or, in an enervating day of July, one may have longed to dine upon humming-bird,
with rose-leaves for dessert. But these are exceptional times; the abiding hope is, that we
shall continue to eat, drink, and be merry. For the practical is in the imperative. It is cumulative,
and reinforces itself,--a real John Brown power that is always marching on, and we must march
beside it with patient, cheery hearts. Is it strange that even the moss-covered Carlisle town,
of which the Last Minstrel sang, and where the Scottish Mary tarried in her flight from the
cousin queen, is now chiefly remarkable for its cotton-factory and biscuit-bakery?

Indeed, the enthusiasm over biscuits has its place, as well as that over books; and it is not
always that there is as much genuine joy in a novel as one may get out of bread-making. This
is quite too scientific and interesting to be left to a domestic. It is really among the most
exciting experiments. Try it every week for two years, and it seems just as new an enterprise
as at the beginning,--but a thousand times more successful, we observe. Working up the light
drifts of flour, leaving them at night a heavy pat and nothing more,--waking to find a dish
flowing-full of snowy foam. The first thing on rising one's self is, to see if the dough be
risen, too; and that is always sure to be early, for every batch of bread sets an alarm in
one's brain. After breakfast one will be as expectant as if going to a ball in lieu of a baking.
Then to see the difference a little more or less flour will make, and out of what quantity
comes perfection! To feminine vision, more precious than "apples of gold in pictures of silver"
are loaves of bread in dishes of tin. If one were ever penurious, might it not be of these
handsome loaves of hers? The little housewife will be very gentle to the persecuted man of
Scripture who was so reluctant to get up at midnight and give away his bread. She will even
be charitable to the stingy merchant scorned by Saadi, of whom it was written, that, "if, instead
of his loaf of bread, the orb of the sun had been in his wallet, nobody had seen daylight in
the world till the Day of Judgment."

Dr. Kane says, he knows how bread can be raised in three hours without salt, saleratus, or
shortening,--knows, but sha'n't tell. This must be another mystery of the Arctic regions. Certainly
that bread could not have been raised in the sun. But how one quantity was managed the Doctor
is free to say. He kneaded a whole barrel of flour in a pickled-cabbage cask, and baked it
at once by firing several volumes of the "Penny Cyclopædia of Useful Knowledge."

After compliments, however, to come in with the cash down of the practical, here is a veritable
bread-making recipe, well-tested and voted superior. Take a quart of milk; heat one third and
scald with it a half-pint of flour; if skimmed milk, use a small piece of butter. When the
batter is cool, add the remainder of the milk, a teacup of hop-yeast, a half-tablespoon of
salt, with flour to make it quite stiff. Knead it on the board till it is very fine and smooth;
raise over night. It will make two small loaves and a half-dozen biscuits.

This recipe ought to give good bread week in and week out, so saving you from the frequent
calamity of soda-biscuits. These may be used for dumplings, or as a sudden extempore, but do
not let them be habitual. True, you will occasionally meet people who say that they can eat
these, when raised ones are fatal. But some persons find cheese good for dyspepsia, many advocate
ice-cream, others can eat only beans, while some are cured by popped corn. Yet these articles
are not likely to become staples of diet. They would hardly answer a normal appetite; and any
stomach that can steadily withstand the searchingness of soda and tartaric acid seems ready
to go out to pasture and eat the fences. Chemists will say, if bread must be improvised, use
soda and muriatic acid. These combined in precise proportions are supposed to evaporate in
the baking, and leave common salt. But this acid is such furious stuff! It will come to you
from the druggists in a bottle marked "Poison," and it is not pleasant to put into one's mouth
a substance that will burn a hole in her apron. It is too much of the Roland for an Oliver,--You
eat me and I will eat you. For it is quite difficult to perfectly combine the acid and alkali,
and then the bread is streaked with muriatic fire; then one might easily take into the system
a thousand streaks a year, and then one would become a fire-eater.

But probably the greatest of all bread wonders are the unleavened Graham cakes. These are worth
a special mail and large postage to tell of. I was about to beg that you surprise H. with them
at your next breakfast. But no, he won't like them; besides, according to the theory of "Woman
and her Era," they're a deal too good for men, they are fit only for women and angels. So just
salt and scald some Graham meal into a dough as soft as can be and be handled. Roll it an inch
thick, cutting in diamonds, which place on a tin sheet and thrust into the hottest of ovens.
(Note this last direction, or the diamonds will be flat leather.) Strange to say, they will
rise, and keep rising, till in ten minutes you take them out quite puffed. One would never
guess them innocent of yeast. An inch thick is the rule; but there is nothing like an adventurous
courage. It is at once suggested, if they are so good at an inch, will they not be twice as
good at two inches. And certainly they are. The meal will not be outwitted. It is the liveliest
and most buoyant material. Its lightness keeps up with the utmost experiment. Finally, it may
be turned into a massive loaf, and with a brisk heat it will refuse to be depressed.

The morning when were produced these charming little miracles remains a red-letter day in our
household. Who ever tasted anything, save a nut, half so sweet, or who ever anything so pure?
We ate, lingered, and revelled in them, thus becoming epicures at once. It seemed as if all
our lives we had been seeking something really recherché, and had just found it. They were
as great a revelation to the palate as Bettine or Thoreau might be to the mind. Now all was
couleur de rose. Here was found, if not the philosopher's stone, the philosopher's bread, that
should turn everything into health. Henceforth the strong heroes celebrated by Emerson, who
"at rich men's tables eat but bread and pulse," might sit at ours, arising refreshed and glorified.
And was not this also coming very near Nature? but two removes from the field, wheat cracked,
then ground. (I have since come a degree nearer on cracked wheat at a water-cure!) It sounded
altogether wholesome and primitive. I hastened with a sample to my best friend. She, too, tasted,
exulted, and passed on the tidings to others. Now, indeed, was the golden age in dawn. Already
we saw a community purified and rejuvenated. Before our philosopher-cakes sin and bad blood
would disappear, and already the crowns of grateful generations were pressing on our brows.
But something went wrong with all the cooks. Either they didn't scald the meal or they didn't
heat the oven,--what in one hand was light beaten gold in another became lead. For a while
it seemed that I could not go to my friend's without meeting some one who cast scorn on our
reformation cakes. All tried them and failed; so sin remains in the world.

But now hope plumes itself anew. You at least will attempt the little wheatens. You have a
deft hand, and will succeed. The buoyancy of the meal revives in my blood. Now the world rights
itself again, and once more we are all bounding sunward.

But to be honest. For a few weeks I and the radical cakes were as satisfied as young lovers,
but soon came temptations to progress from the primitive,--first to add a little sugar. But
I vetoed as resolutely as Andrew Jackson himself, thus putting up the bars between the wheat-field
and cane-field, or probably by this time I should have been pouring in spice, eggs, and milk,
and at last should have committed the crime of doing just as other people do.

If you would confess it, you have probably found in your new captain-general a susceptibility
not only to your charms, but to those of good cooking. Always count these among the young wife's
fascinations. Remember how Miss Bremer's Fannie, of "The Neighbors," in a matrimonial quarrel
with her Bear, conquered him with fresh-baked patties aimed at his mouth. But be not too conciliatory,--especially
towards coffee. If you could be hard-hearted enough to win H. from this bilious beverage, would
it not be worth the perils? Entertain him for a few mornings so brilliantly that he won't know
what he is drinking, then----But I'll tell you how we will cheat him admirably; and it isn't
very cruel either, for merely to gratify the taste make-believes are as good as realities.
First, every one knows Taraxacum or dandelion; invalids know crust-coffee, and many with indignation
know burnt peas. Also Miss Beecher, whose estimable cook-book you certainly must get, mentions
that ochra seeds or gumbo cannot be told from Java; an army correspondent has since reported
coffee made at the South from oker seeds, doubtless the same; another found in use the sweet
potato, roasted, and flavored with coffee; while a friend has just described the most enticing
beverage made from chickory,--the root being stripped and dried under the stove. This is said
to be so rich that sometimes it has to be diluted with a trifle of coffee. And still further,
there is simple rye, which is cheaper found than either. Jeff. Davis drank it for four years
and wrote all her grand proclamations out of it. But probably the wholesomer article is wheat
coffee. I have lately prepared some by boiling a cup of well-scorched wheat-bran in a pint
of water; and although I don't quite know how good coffee tastes, no doubt this was very like
the true Java. It poured clear and rich as wine. Now try this in full strength with your spouse,
being very witty when he drinks. And as the mornings pass, oh, weaken it more and more. That
is, cheat him pleasantly at first, then worse and worse, till he is glad to take milk or pure
water with you. Conspiracies are usually contemptible; but this is one of the very "best water,"
you see.

Perhaps we who never drink coffee can hardly understand the affection its votaries have for
it. To their minds, water seems to be given only for steeping that delicious mud. Said one
extravagant Madame Follet, "When I see a coffee-pot, 'tis exactly the same as if I saw an angel
from heaven." And the Biloxi people, whom General Butler surprised of a morning, were found
to be in a very tragic state. One boy exclaimed, "Oh, give me just a handful of coffee, master,
an' I'll give you 'lasses, sugar, anything!" while a strong man ejaculated, "My God, we're
short of everything! I haven't tasted tea or coffee for four months!"--as grievous as if he
hadn't seen a human face for a year. According to the "Herald" correspondent, the chief reason
that the South rejoices in peace is that "Now we'll be able to get some real coffee!"--perhaps,
he adds, in the next breath inquiring, "What are you going to do with our niggers?"

No, we could not, with Ward Beecher, "bless the man who discovered the immortal berry." Nor
could we, with De Quincey, apostrophize to a certain other excitant, "O just, subtle, and mighty
opium! thou boldest the keys of Paradise!" Yet one must concede the possible uses of a stimulant.
Coffee has been priceless to our army, on its cold, wet marches; and benedictions should be
ordered in the churches, if need be, to the man who made it into that wondrous pemmican, so
that the coffee of a regiment may be carried in a few tin cans. Then, too, it seems good for
men who go driving up and down the world on stage-coaches and locomotives; but for stay-at-home,
counting-house mortals, is it not a mere delicious superfluity? Quite as much of one as a cigar,
I think.

But henceforth, when Rio is high, drink rye. If one must have either, better the simulant than
the stimulant.

Among other things, you have doubtless discovered that one admirable breakfast dish is eggs.
If you serve them in the shell, it is quite worth while to follow the English way, keeping
them close covered for ten minutes in very hot water without boiling. The yolks are thus left
running, and the whites are beautifully jellied. These are convenient to get when relations
arrive at night, and there is no meat in the house. Relations always expect meat for breakfast.

In fact, it is just at this point that one's genius is to come in,--when a nice meal must be
gotten at short notice, and the larder is empty. None but the woman of resources can do it;
and she knows her realm is as full of strategies as was ever the Department of the Potomac.
Under her hand, when there was supposed to be nothing for breakfast, I have seen bits of meat
snatched from cold soup, and wrought up into the most savory morsels,--one would never guess
that the goodness was all boiled out of them; while a cup of yesterday's griddle-cake batter
went suddenly into the oven, and came out a breakfast-cake finer than waffles.

One who had the knack of the heroine Fleda, in "Queechy," would be friendly to omelets, and
tell of them too. But you must be self-reliant, and put them on the list of experiments. It
will probably be some time before you come to that refinement of egg-eating which Mrs. Stowe
found at the mansion of the Duke of Sutherland, where she was honored with lunch. Her sylvan
spirit was somewhat startled, when a servant brought five little speckled plover eggs, all
lying in the nest just as taken from the tree. How they were cooked is unknown; but one would
certainly need a recipe to eat them by.

But an American woman can outdo the Duchess of Sutherland. She will find an egg daintier than
the plover's, and not stir from her own door; for awhile since, some one, fumbling among the
secrets of Nature, discovered, not that stones were sermons, but that snow was eggs, and straight
made a cook-book to tell it, as we will do on discovering that rain is milk. Of course all
things have their limitations; and these new eggs are not just the article for custards, will
not do to poach for breakfast, or would hardly keep in brine; but they may be used in any compound
that requires lightness without richness. Even our grandmothers made snow pancakes; but, in
the present age, to be distinguished is to be venturesome, and in this experiment one need
not stop short of veritable loaf-cake. The volatile element in snow makes two table-spoons
of it equal to one egg; therefore to a small loaf I should allow ten table-spoons. Cooks always
put in as many eggs as they can afford, you know.

Thus, when snow falls every day for four months, as it does in New England, eggs get exceedingly
cheap in the prudent household. Then one can smile to think how she circumvents the grocer,
and pray the clouds to lay a good nestful every week.

A friend the other day improvised a list of edibles headed, "Poisonous Ps,"--pastry, pickles,
pork, and preserves. She was pleased to leave out puddings, and hereto we shall say, Amen.
Not that one is to indorse such odiously rich ones as cocoa-nut, suet, and English plum; but,
bating these, there are enough both nice and wholesome to change the dessert every day for
a fortnight, at least. At another time I may give you some recipes, with various items by this
writing omitted.

Pastry the physiologists have been shaking their heads about for some time,--especially as
many persons use soda with the lard, not being aware that they are making soft soap. This sort
of paste one often sees in the country. But it is easy to omit the soap. On the next bread-making
day, simply reserve a piece of the well-raised dough, and roll in butter. This gives a palatable
and harmless crust. I have also experimented with a shortening of hot, fine-mashed potato and
milk, which, if it may not be recommended to an epicure, is really better than it sounds, And
does it not sound better than Dr. Trall's proposal of sweet oil? Will not some of these ways
satisfy our ardent reformers and physiologists? But about chicken-pie, remember the tradition,
that, unless the top crust is punctured, it will make one very ill. (Who knows but this was
the secret of the National Hotel sickness?) At least, it is truer than some other traditions,
such as that eating burnt crusts will make the cheeks red, or that fried turnip will make the
hair curl.

Pickles do not seem so good that they must be eaten, nor so bad that they must not be. But
with them comes evermore the vision that Trollope has prepared of all our smart little five-year-old
men and women perched at hotel-tables, pale-faced and sedate, with waiters behind their chairs,
and ordering chowders and chops with an inevitable "Please don't forget the pickles."

Preserves, aside from the recent luxury of canned fruit, have the happiest substitutes, if
we will take what the seasons bring to our hands. Not a month in the year is left wholly barren
of these relishes for the tea-table. There are berries all the summer, apples and cranberries
in the winter, when, just as the last russet disappears, and with it every one's appetite,
up springs the pungent and luxuriant rhubarb. Somewhat curious is it concerning this last article.
Forty years ago it was such a pure experiment in England, that a Mr. Myatt, who took seven
bundles of it to London, succeeded in selling but three. Still he persisted in keeping it before
the people, although he seemed only to lose rhubarb and to gain ridicule, being designated
as the man who sold "physic pies."

And besides our own zone, with its fruits fresh or dried, there are the abounding tropics always
at the door: Pine-apples, which, if unwholesome, are yet charmingly convenient to help a luckless
housekeeper, and which, by the way, made a better entrée in London than pie-plant, being so
popular that their salesmen floated flags from the top of their stalls; bananas, those foreign
muskmelons of spring; oranges, gilding every street-corner; dates, which do not go meanly with
bread and butter, though one is a little fearful of finding a whole straw bed therein; and
prunes, which, if soaked several hours and stewed slowly, are luscious enough for a prince.

But pork it appears to be the common impression that man cannot do without. Certainly he must
have partaken somewhat of its nature to make him so greedy; and there would seem to be animals
enough on land and sea, without devouring the swine. If pork be important anywhere, it is so
in the old Puritan dish of baked beans; yet those who have tasted baked beans prepared with
fine rich beef instead have voted them quite sumptuous, and possibly rich enough for people
who live at restaurants. But so long as fish, bird, and fowl remain, and men even eat turtles
and frogs,--so long as sheep do not die of wolves, nor cattle of the county commissioners,--may
not the pig be left to his wallowing in the mire?

Thus much for the poisonous ps. We do not place among them that popular plant, the potato,
though it has the blood of the nightshade in its veins. But these may be made moderately poisonous
by putting them into soup. Once taste clear potato-water, and you will not aspire to drink
a strong broth from it. And even potatoes one may eat at a dozen tables, and not find nicely
served at any. With domestics generally they figure as the article that in cooking takes care
of itself,--the convenient vegetable, that may be thrown into the kettle, and taken up when
nothing else needs to be. In the end they are either half done and hard, or when done, being
left soaking, are watery and soggy; whereas they should be pared, kept boiling in salted water
till they break, then drained and shaken over the coals till powdery dry. They need tossing
up with as light a hand as an omelet, you see. If they are not of the nicest variety, they
should be mashed with milk, butter, and salt, and placed in the oven to brown. This is a kind
of medication which usually makes the poorest article quite palatable, and is resorted to in
the early summer, when potatoes are become decidedly an "aged p." I was once amused to hear
a man complaining of a certain potato, because it was "too dry." It is doubtful what he would
do in Maine, the land of the famous Jackson whites, which boil to a creamy powder. One must
be grateful that our Massachusetts Dovers cannot be dampened by this original potato-taster.
He probably would like juicy potatoes and mealy oranges.

But of course none can have studied diet and its varied effects on various persons, without
seeing it to be impossible to make up two lists of dishes, one of which shall be voted hurtful
and the other harmless. Nor does the healthfulness of food seem to consist wholly in its simplicity,
according to old Grahamite theories. There is probably some truth in the saying of Hippocrates,
"Whatever pleases the palate nourishes"; but one cannot fail to recognize the wisdom of M.
Soyer, that prince of the cuisine, who maintains that the digestibility of food depends, not
on the number of articles used in its manufacture, but in their proper combination. Says M.
Soyer, "I would wager that I could give a first-class indigestion to the greatest gourmet,
even while using the most recherché provisions, without his being able to detect any fault
in the preparation of the dishes of which he had partaken,--and this simply by improperly classifying
the condiments used in the preparation." This gives a hint of the nicety of the culinary art,
the genius required to practise it, and the fine physical effects that hinge upon it. It is
no wonder that Vatel committed suicide before the great banquet which he had prepared for his
master, the Prince of Condé, because he feared it was to fail. It is certainly enough to alarm
ordinary amateurs,--and such are the most of us; for, while Americans place all due stress
upon the table, they neglect to emphasize the cuisine. Instead of this nonchalance, we have
yet to discover that cookery belongs to the fine arts; that it is exhaustive alike of chemistry
and physiology, and touches upon laws as sure as those which mingle the atmospheric elements,
hourly adjusting them to man's nicest needs. And we should count it among the best of the progressive
plans of our country, if to the new Industrial College under subscription at Worcester were
to be added an elaborate culinary department, with the most accomplished professor that could
be obtained. Perhaps, as M. Soyer was philanthropic enough to go to the Crimea, and teach the
English to make hospital soup, he would even come here and give our nation a glimpse of those
marvellous morsels that have made Paris the envy of epicures the world over.

And if there is a proper harmony to be attained in the combining of various ingredients, making
every perfect dish a poem, there is no less harmony in combining the various dishes for a repast,
making a poem in every perfect meal. For every leading dish has its kindred and antagonistic
ones: as, at dinner, one would not serve cauliflower with fricasseed chicken, nor turnips with
boiled salmon, nor, at tea, currants with cream-toast, nor currants with custard. But this
is something that cannot be fully taught or learned. It is almost wholly at the mercy of one's
instinct, and may be ruled by a tact as delicate as that which conducts a drawing-room.

But we are quite curious to learn, M., if your excellent companion has yet been away from home
so long that you have had to go to market. And can you wisely discern roasts, steaks, and fowl?
Says one, "The way to select fowl is first to select your butcher"; and away he swings out
of intelligence and responsibility with a magnificent air. A lady friend has this charming
fashion of frankness: "Now, Mr. ----, I don't know one piece of meat from another, and shall
expect you to give me the best"; thus throwing herself directly on her faith and fascinations.
But these might grow jejune, nor is it safe to trust the tender mercies of a butcher. Better
know what you want, and know if you get it. Therefore you will study the anatomy of animals,
as laid down in all modern cook-books. But really it is a little perplexing. I confess I am
near concluding that every beef creature is a special creation; for one never finds the same
joint twice, and apparently the only things common to all are tongue and liver.

Not long since, having a discussion at the market with an elderly gentleman, he said something
pleasant which must be written for the husband of a young housekeeper. We agreed that a rump
steak was of more uniform richness than a sirloin, the best of the latter being only that luscious
strip underlying the bone. "But," added the kindly man, "I always buy the sirloin, because
I give that juicy scrap to my wife." It is worth while, M., to be wedded to the thoughtful
heart, who, after forty years, yet wills to give one the single choice bit from the table.

Aside from the ordinary beef-routine, there is another dish which is usually popular. Select
a cheap, lean piece of beef, weighing two or three pounds, put it on the stove in cold water
soon after breakfast, boiling gently. Half an hour before dinner add a small onion, a sliced
parsnip and carrot, a few bits of turnip, and a half-dozen dumplings. When these are done,
remove them; season and thicken, serving a dumpling with meat and vegetables to each plate
of stew. This may be rather plebeian, but is certainly palatable,--unless there be choice company
to dine. We might call it Rainy-Day Stew.

But the toothsome time for beef-eaters was undoubtedly in the days of pleuro-pneumonia. Then
the frightened public fled from beef as from the plague, and all the best cuts were left for
the bold. One was tempted to pray that such pleuro might last for the season, save that the
Commissioners were so costly, and the dear cattle were having an unusually sanguinary Bull
Run. I know what our vegetarian friend, Mr. Alcott, will say; but he must indulge me in a very
small mania, even if it seem to him a kind of cannibalism; therefore, whatever rhapsodies are
left from bread and potato, let them all be given to good beef. While the quarrel of round,
rump, and sirloin goes on, this let us buy and eat and reinforce ourselves. In it are poems,
powers, and possessions ineffable. Twenty-five cents a pound, and the strength of the gods
in one's veins! Broil it carefully and rare, then go and toss quoits with Hercules. In this,
ye disconsolate, behold lands, lovers, and virtues in plenty. It fills and steadies the pulse,
and plants the planet plump under one's feet. "My friend, is he who makes me do what I can,"
says the sage. Only beefsteak can come to the rescue. If one were going to a martyr's fire,
of this should he eat, lest he die, not sublimely, with a fainting body. He would try this
steak, and then that stake.

But there is one event that comes alike to all, and that is a holiday dinner. Even the poor
have their plum-pudding days, and all seem to think that on a Christmas or Thanksgiving Nature
suspends her laws and lets one eat as much as he can. It is quite in the spirit of the Scottish
Lord Cockburn, who, ending a long walk, used to say, "We will eat a profligate supper,--a supper
without regard to discretion or digestion." Or after the theory of one who ate whatever he
pleased, whenever he pleased, and as much as he pleased, saying, "Oh, if it makes me sick,
I can take medicine. What are the doctors for, if 'tisn't to cure people?" He did not know
how small hope can be gotten from the doctors, and how those who know best get more and more
courage to travel into places where they are not. There must have been a poor chance for the
Egyptians, who, Herodotus says, had a physician for each part of the body; so that the human
frame would seem to have been a sort of university, and each of the organs a vacant professorship.
In case of malady, every officer worked away on his own member without regard to what his medical
neighbors were doing. Michelet mentions a fish that has the power of multiplying stomachs to
the number of one hundred and twenty. Fortunately that power is not man's. Think of dyspepsia
with a hundred and twenty stomachs, and a different doctor for each!

Do not imagine this a plea for the transcendental diet that drove Sydney Smith to that pathetic
sigh, "Ah, I wish they would allow me even the wing of a roasted butterfly!" But perhaps it
would not be amiss to conjure up a terror-demon from these bodies of ours, so that we should
fear to violate laws with such merciless penalties,--should have none but well-cooked food,
at sensible and systematic hours. Is it strange that little Miss Bremer, who thought herself
of soundest digestion, after three months of American night-dinners with oysters and preserve,
is at last seen to grasp Dr. Osgood with both hands, exclaiming, in tears, "Oh, help me!" I
want to save you from resembling the great people of the world after the manner of Dr. Beattie,
whose title to genius was, "Have I not headaches like Pope, vertigo like Swift, gray hairs
like Homer? Do I not wear large shoes for fear of corns like Virgil, and sometimes complain
of sore eyes like Horace?"

Therefore I hope that your H. will make the counting-room conform to regular mid-day dinner
and early tea-time. And let us trust that it will not have the same fatal result as with King
Louis XII., who is said to have died earlier from changing his dinner-hour in compliment to
his foreign bride.

One can hardly think of late suppers without turning quite away to those ideal tea-takings
of the Wordsworths at Grasmere. "Plain living and high thinking," was the motto of the philosopher-poet,
and that table was never crowded with viands. One can well believe, that, as De Quincey said,
in the quiet walks after tea the face of the poet "grew solemn and spiritual as any saint's."
But he probably was thinking very high when he drew a knife from the buttered toast and cut
the leaves of a new book just lent to him!

Quite sombre are the memories of Rydal Mount; but since we are really alive, let us be lively.
Behold me, then, dear M., well turbaned and aproned, and know that this is our churning-day.
You give one of your gleeful little shrieks, perhaps; but yes, it is true; we live in the city,
take a pint of milk per day, and make butter.

And where is the churn? you suggest. Oh, I extemporize that. It is out of the question to buy
every convenient thing, or purse will run dry and house overflow. Dr. Kane hints how few dishes
it is possible to use; and the plan is admirable; so one need not buy a churn, but make one
out of a bowl and spoon. Into the bowl goes the cream, into the cream the spoon, and then I
beat, beat, beat, not as one who beateth the air. This often lasts for two hours or more; it
might be said that the cream remains in chrysalis, and refuses to butterfly! Indeed, there
is no reason why a small bowl of cream shouldn't be as refractory as a wooden churnful. But
when it "won't come," my distress is not at all proportioned to the size of the bowl.

Still I beat, beat, beat, perspiringly, but resolutely, while it whisks about, spattering over
face, bib, and turban. At length there appear within it greasy-looking flecks. These increase
till the mass thickens, beats solidly, separates from the milk, and declares itself butter.
A limited quantity, certainly, but I will none the less press it dry, salt, and make it into
cakes as large as a full-blown tea-rose. Each of these I will stamp, lay on a dapper glass
cup-plate, and at tea-time several dear ones in various households will find these astonishing
little pats beside them. Think you not they are genuine love-pats?

This would be a pretty way to serve butter always, did it not remind one of cheap hotels kept
on the European plan, where those small, slushy, yellow cakes come in with the rolls. A choicer
way is to form it into acorns or strawberries,--though I don't in the least know how it is
done,--placing them all together on a plate and serving one to each at the table. This dainty
way, however, would hardly make a bad article good, and no one would crave a berry of ancient
firkin butter. For, as trivial a matter as it seems, this single condiment of food, one has
only to encounter it in a strong, cheesy state to feel it among the most important things in
the cuisine. Then one suddenly discovers that butter is in everything. Eating becomes intolerable,
living dwindles into dyspepsia, and finally one is tempted to exclaim with a certain epicure,
"I wish I were under the sod! There's no lump butter in the market!"

It is related of Apicius, who lived at Rome, that he ate very large shrimps; but hearing that
those of Greece were larger, he straightway sailed for that coast without losing a day. He
met a great storm and much danger; but on arriving, the fishermen brought him of their best.
Apicius shook his head.

"Have you never any larger shrimps?"

"No, Seignior, never!"

At which, rubbing his hands with delight, he ordered the captain to sail back at once, saying,--

"I have left some at home larger than these, and they will be spoiled, if the wind is not in
our favor."

We will not carry our dilletantism so far as this, nor let it carry us so far; still we are
glad not to be driven to the expedient of the Syrians, whose only butter is the fat procured
from the tails of their sheep,--which is literally being reduced to extremities.

By the way, something quite remarkable occurred in my first churning. I began with one cup
of cream and ended with a cup of butter and a full cup of buttermilk! This law of expansion
is paralleled only by that of contraction, as shown to the farmer who took a brimming pail
of dinner to the sty; and after the little pig had eaten it all, the farmer put him into the
pail, and had room for another half of a pig beside.

       *       *       *       *       *

But, dear M., it is hardly two moons since the bridal trunks were taken from our hall, and
you went away with the friend. You have scarcely been domesticated long enough to see that
bright tins bake badly, and that one must crucify her pride by allowing them to blacken; yet
so soon do I overwhelm you with culinary suggestions. I am distressed to remember them. But
you must forgive and smile me into peacefulness again. And be not discouraged, little housewife!
It may take years of attention to excel in bread-making, some skill even for boiling potatoes,
and common-sense for everything; but stand steadily beside your servants, and watch their processes
patiently. Take notes, experiment, amend, and if there be failure, discover the reason; then
it need not happen again.

And despite the difficulties of the practical, you and H. will not slight the ideal. Love the
work you are doing and must do; but when it is done, oh, train the rose-vines over your door!

THE PEACE AUTUMN.

DOCTOR JOHNS.

XXXVII.

Meantime Reuben was gaining, month by month, in a knowledge of the world,--at least of such
portion of it as came within the range of his vision in New York. He imagined it, indeed, a
very large portion, and took airs upon himself in consequence. He thought with due commiseration
of the humble people of Ashfield. He wonders how he could have tolerated so long their simple
ways. The Eagle Tavern, with its creaking sign-board, does not loom so largely as it once did
upon the horizon of his thought. That he should ever have trembled as a lad at walking up to
the little corner bar, in company with Phil! And as for Nat Boody, whose stories he once listened
to admiringly, what a scrubby personage he has become in his eye! Fighting-dogs, indeed! "Scamp"
would be nothing to what he has seen a score of times in the city!

He has put Phil through some of the "sights": for that great lout of a country lad (as Reuben
could not help counting him, though he liked his big, honest heart for all that) had found
him out, when he came to New York to take ship for the West Indies.

"I say, Phil," Reuben had said, as he marched his old schoolmate up Broadway, "it's rather
a touch beyond Ashfield, this, isn't it? How do you think Old Boody's tavern and sign-board
would look along here?"

And Phil laughed, quietly.

"I should like to see old Deacon Tourtelot," continued Reuben, "with Huldy on his arm, sloping
down Broadway. Wouldn't the old people stare?"

"I guess they would," Phil said, demurely.

"I wonder if they'd knock off at sundown Saturday night," continued Reuben, mockingly.

And his tone somehow hurt Phil, who had the memories of the old home--a very dear one to him--fresh
upon him.

"And I suppose Miss Almiry keeps at her singing?"

"Yes," said Phil, straining a point in favor of his townswoman; "and I think she sings pretty
well."

"Pretty well! By Jove, Phil, you should have been at the Old Park night before last; you would
have heard what I call singing. It would have stirred up the old folks of Ashfield."

And Phil met it all very seriously. It seemed to him, in his honesty, that Reuben was wantonly
cutting asunder all the ties that once bound him to the old home. It pained him, moreover,
to think--as he did, with a good deal of restiveness--that his blessed mother, and Rose perhaps,
and the old Squire, his father, were among the Ashfield people at whom Reuben sneered so glibly.
And when he parted with him upon the dock,--for Reuben had gone down to see him off,--it was
with a secret conviction that their old friendship had come to an end, and that thenceforth
they two could have no sympathies in common.

But in this Phil was by no means wholly right. The talk of Reuben was, after all, but the ebullition
of a city conceit,--a conceit which is apt to belong to all young men at some period of their
novitiate in city life. He was mainly anxious to impress upon Phil the great gain which he
had made in knowledge of the world in the last few years, and to astound him with the great
difference between his present standpoint and the old one, when they were boys together on
the benches of the Ashfield meeting-house. We never make such gains, or apparent gains, at
any period of life, it is to be feared, without wishing to demonstrate their magnitude to the
slow coaches we have left behind.

And on the very night after Reuben had parted from Phil, when he came late to his chamber,
dazed with some new scene at the theatre, and his brain flighty with a cup too much, it may
well have happened, that, in his fevered restlessness, as the clock near by chimed midnight,
his thoughts ran back to that other chamber where once sweet sleep always greeted him,--to
the overhanging boughs that rustled in the evening air at the window,--to the shaded street
that stretched away between the silent houses,--to the song of the katydids, chattering their
noisy chorus,--to the golden noons when light feet tripped along the village walks,--to the
sunny smiles of Rose,--to the kindly entreaty of good Mrs. Elderkin,--and more faintly, yet
more tenderly, than elsewhere, to a figure and face far remote, and so glorified by distance
that they seem almost divine, a figure and a face that are somehow associated with the utterance
of his first prayer,--and with the tender vision before him, he mumbles the same prayer and
falls asleep with it upon his lip.

Only on his lip, however,--and the next day, when he steals a half-hour for a stroll upon Broadway
with that dashing girl, Miss Sophie Bowrigg, (she is really a stylish creature,) he has very
little thought of the dreamy sentiments of the night before, which seemed for the time to keep
his wilder vagaries in subjection, and to kindle aspirations toward a better life. It is doubtful,
even, if he did not indulge in an artful compliment or two to the dashing Miss Sophie, the
point of which lay in a cleverly covered contrast of herself with the humdrum manners of the
fair ones of Ashfield. Yet, to tell truth, he is not wholly untouched by certain little rallying,
coquettish speeches of Miss Sophie in respect to Adèle, who, in her open, girl-like way, has
very likely told the full story of Reuben's city attentions.

Reuben had, indeed, been piqued by the French girl's reception of his patronage, and he had
been fairly carried off his feet in view of her easy adaptation to the ways of the city, and
of her graceful carriage under all the toilet equipments which had been lavished upon her,
under the advice of Mrs. Brindlock. A raw boy comes only by long aptitude into the freedom
of a worldly manner; but a girl--most of all a French girl, in whom the instincts of her race
are strong--leaps to such conquest in a day. Of course he had intimated to Adèle no wonder
at the change; but he had thrust a stray glove of hers into his pocket, counting it only a
gallant theft; and there had been days when he had drawn out that little relic of her visit
from its hidden receptacle, and smoothed it upon his table, and pressed it, very likely, to
his lips, in the same way in which youth of nineteen or twenty are used to treat such feminine
tokens of grace.

It was a dainty glove, to be sure. It conjured up her presence in its most alluring aspect.
The rustle of her silk, the glow of her cheek, the coyness of her touch, whenever she had dropped
that delicate hand on his, came with the sight of it. He ventures, in a moment of gallant exuberance,
to purchase a half-dozen of the same number, of very charming tints, (to his eye,) and sends
them as a gift to Adèle, saying,--

"I found your stray glove we had a search for in the carriage, but did not tell of it. I hope
these will fit."

"They fit nicely," said Adèle, writing back to him,--"so nicely, I may be tempted to throw
another old glove of mine some time in your way."

Miss Eliza Johns was of course delighted with this attention of Reuben's, and made it the occasion
of writing him a long letter, (and her letters were very rare, by reason of the elaboration
she counted necessary,) in which she set forth the excellence of Adèle's character, her "propriety
of speech," her "lady-like deportment," her "cheerful observance of duty," and her "eminent
moral worth," in such terms as stripped all romance from Reuben's recollection of her, and
made him more than half regret his gallant generosity.

The Doctor writes to him regularly once a fortnight; of which missives Reuben reads as regularly
the last third, containing, as it does usually, a little home news or casual mention of Miss
Rose Elderkin or of the family circle. The other two thirds, mainly expostulatory, he skips,
only allowing his eye to glance over them, and catch such scattered admonitions as these:--"Be
steadfast in the truth.... Let your light shine before men.... Be not tempted of the Devil;
for if you resist him, he will flee from you.... The wisdom of this world is foolishness....
Trust not, my son, in any arm of flesh."

Ah, how much of such good advice had been twisted into tapers for the lighting of Reuben's
cigars! Not because it was absolutely scorned; not because it was held in contempt, or its
giver held in contempt; but because there was so much of it. If the old gentleman had been
in any imminent bodily peril, it is certain that Reuben would have rushed far and wide to aid
him. It is certain that he loved him; it is certain that he venerated him; and yet, and yet,
(he said to himself,) "I do wish he would keep this solemn stuff for his sermons. Who cares
to read it? Who cares to hear it, except on Sundays?"

Our good reader will exclaim,--A bad young man! And yet we think our good readers--nay, our
best of readers--have shirked godly counsel over and over, with very much the same promptitude.
We all grow so weary with the iteration of even the best of truths! we all love youth so much!
we all love the world so much! we all trust to an arm of flesh so much!

Not for a moment did the Doctor believe that his recreant son pondered wisely and deeply these
successive epistles of his. He knew him too well for that. But for him duty was always duty.
"Here a little, and there a little." It would have pained the old gentleman grievously to know
the full extent of the wickedness of his boy,--to have looked for a moment into the haunts
to which he was beguiled by his companions of the city,--to have seen his flushed and swollen
face after some of those revels to which Reuben was a party. But the good Doctor was too ignorant
of the world to conceive, even, of larger latitude than an occasional cigar or a stolen sight
at the orgies of the theatre. And when Mr. Brindlock wrote, as he took occasion to do about
this period, regretting the extravagance of Reuben and the bad associations into which he had
fallen, and urging the Doctor to impress upon him the advantages of regularity and of promptitude,
and to warn him that a very advantageous business career which was opening upon him would be
blighted by his present habits, the poor gentleman was fairly taken aback.

That even this worldly gentleman, Mr. Brindlock, should take exception to the courses of his
son was a most startling fact. What admonition could the Doctor add to those which he had addressed
to his poor son fortnightly for years past? Had he not warned him over and over that he was
standing upon slippery places? Had he not unfolded the terrors of God's wrath upon sinners?
Had he not set before him in "line upon line" the awful truth that his immortal career was
at stake? And should he descend from this ground to plead with him upon the score of his short-lived
worldly career? What were all business prospects, however they might wane, compared with that
dreadful prospect which lies before him who refuseth godly counsel and hardeneth his heart?
Was it not a fearful confirmation of Satan's reign upon earth, that peril to a temporal career
should serve for warning against criminal excesses, when the soul's everlasting peril was urged
vainly? The Doctor wrote to Reuben with even more than his usual unction. But he could not
bring himself to warn his boy of the mere blight to his worldly career,--that was so small
a matter! Yet he laid before him in graver terms than he had ever done before the weight of
the judgment of an offended God, and the fearful retribution that would certainly overtake
the ungodly. Reuben lighted his cigar with the letter, not unfeelingly, but indifferently,
and ventured even upon a blasphemous joke with his companions.

"It ought to burn," he says, "There's plenty of brimstone in it!"

It would have crazed the minister of Ashfield to have heard the speech. In his agony of mind
he went to consult Squire Elderkin, and laid before him the dire accounts he had heard.

"Ah, young men will be young men, Doctor. There's time for him to come out right yet. It's
the blood of the old Major; it must have vent."

As the Doctor recalled what he counted his father's godless death, he shuddered. Presently
he talked of summoning his boy home immediately.

"Well, Doctor," said the Squire, meditatively, "there are two sides to that matter. There are
great temptations in the city, to be sure; but if God puts a man in the way of great temptations,
I suppose He gives him strength to resist them. Isn't that good theology?"

The parson nodded assent.

"We can always resist, if we will, Squire," said he.

"Very good, Doctor. Suppose, now, you bring your boy home; he'll fret desperately under your
long lectures, and with Miss Eliza, and perhaps run off into deviltries that will make him
worse than those of the city. You must humor him a little, Doctor; touch his pride; there's
a fine, frank spirit at the bottom; give him a good word now and then."

"I know no word so good as prayer," said the Doctor, gravely.

"That's very well, Doctor, very well. Mrs. Elderkin gives him help that way; and between you
and me, Doctor, if any woman's prayers can call down blessings, I think that little woman's
can,"--and the Squire's eyes fairly flashed with the dew that came into them.

"An estimable lady,--most estimable!" said the Doctor.

"Pray, if you will, Doctor; it's all right; and for my part, I'll drop him a line, telling
him the town feels an ownership in him, and hopes he'll do us all credit. I think we can bring
him out all right."

"Thank you,--thank you, Squire," said the Doctor, with an unusual warmth.

And he wrought fervently in prayer that night; may-be, too, the hearty invocation of that good
woman, Mrs. Elderkin, joined with his in the Celestial Presence; and if the kindly letter of
the Squire did not rank with the prayers, we may believe, without hardihood, that the recording
angel took note of it, and gave credit on the account current of human charities.

XXXVIII.

Mr. Brindlock had, may-be, exaggerated somewhat the story of Reuben's extravagances, but he
was anxious that a word of caution should be dropped in his ear from some other lips than his
own. The allowance from the Doctor, notwithstanding all the economies of Miss Eliza's frugal
administration, would have been, indeed, somewhat narrow, and could by no means have kept Reuben
upon his feet in the ambitious city-career upon which he had entered. But Mr. Brindlock had
taken a great fancy to the lad, and, besides the stipend granted for his duties about the counting-room,
had given him certain shares in a few private ventures which had resulted very prosperously,--so
prosperously, indeed, that the prudent merchant had determined to hold the full knowledge of
the success in reserve. The prospects of Reuben, however, he being the favorite nephew of a
well-established merchant, were regarded by the most indifferent observers as extremely flattering;
and Mr. Bowrigg was not disposed to look unfavorably upon the young man's occasional attentions
to the dashing Sophie.

But the Brindlocks, though winking at a great deal which the Doctor would have counted grievous
sin, still were uneasy at the lad's growing dissoluteness of habit. Would the prayers of the
good people of Ashfield help him?

It was some time in the month of September, of the same autumn in which poor Adèle lay sick
at the parsonage, that Reuben came in one night, at twelve or thereabout, to his home at the
Brindlocks', (living at this time in the neighborhood of Washington Square,) with his head
cruelly battered, and altogether in a very piteous plight. Mrs. Brindlock, terribly frightened,--in
her woman's way,--was for summoning the Doctor at once; but Reuben pleaded against it; he had
been in a row, that was all, and had caught a big knock or two. The truth was, he had been
upon one of his frolics with his old boon companions; and it so happened that one had spoken
sneeringly of the parson's son, in a way which to the fiery young fellow seemed to cast ridicule
upon the old gentleman. And thereupon Reuben, though somewhat maudlin with wine, yet with the
generous spirit not wholly quenched in him, had entered upon a glowing little speech in praise
of the old gentleman and of his profession,--a speech which, if it were garnished with here
and there an objectionable expletive, was very earnest and did him credit.

"Good for Reuben!" the party had cried out. "Get him a pulpit!"

"Hang me, if he wouldn't preach better now than the old man!" said one.

"And a deused sight livelier," said another.

"Hold your tongue, you blackguard!" burst out Reuben.

And from this the matter came very shortly to blows, in the course of which poor Reuben was
severely punished, though he must have hit some hard blows, for he was wondrously active, and
not a few boxing-lessons had gone to make up the tale of his city accomplishments.

Howbeit, he was housed now, in view of his black eye, for many days, and had ample time for
reflection. In aid of this came a full sheet of serious expostulations from the Doctor, and
that letter of advice which Squire Elderkin had promised, with a little warm-hearted postscript
from good Mrs. Elderkin,--so unlike to the carefully modulated letters of Aunt Eliza! The Doctor's
missive, very likely, did not impress him more than the scores that had gone before it; but
there was a practical tact, and good-natured, common-sense homeliness, in the urgence of the
Squire, which engaged all Reuben's attention; and the words of the good woman, his wife, were
worth more than a sermon to him. "We all want," she writes, "to think well of you, Reuben;
we do think well of you. Don't disappoint us. I can't think of the cheery, bright face, that
for so many an evening shone amid our household, as anything but bright and cheery now. We
all pray for your well-being and happiness, Reuben; and I do hope you have not forgotten to
pray for it yourself."

And with the memory of the kindly woman which this letter called up came a pleasant vision
of the winsome face of Rose, as she used to sit, with downcast eyes, beside her mother in the
old house of Ashfield,--of Rose, as she used to lower upon him in their frolic, with those
great hazel eyes sparkling with indignation. And if the vision did not quicken any lingering
sentiment, it at the least gave a mellow tint to his thought,--a mellowness which even the
hardness of Aunt Eliza could not wholly do away.

"I feel it my duty to write you, Reuben," she says, "and to inform you how very much we have
all been shocked and astonished by the accounts which reach us of your continued indifference
to religious duties, and your reckless extravagance. Let me implore you to be frugal and virtuous.
If you learn to save now, the habit will be of very great service when you come to take your
stand on the arena of life. I am aware that the temptations of a great city are almost innumerable;
but I need hardly inform you that you will greatly consult your own interests and mitigate
our harassment of feeling by practising a strict economy with your funds, and by attending
regularly at church. You will excuse all errors in my writing, since I indite this by the sick-bed
of Adèle."

Adèle, then, is sick; and upon that point alone in the Aunt's letter the thought of Reuben
fastens. Adèle is sick! He knows where she must be lying,--in that little room at the parsonage
looking out upon the orchard; there are white hangings to the bed; careful steps go up and
down the stairway. There had never been much illness in the parson's home, indeed, but certain
early awful days Reuben just remembers; there were white bed-curtains, (he recalls those,)
and a face as white lying beneath; the nurse, too, lifting a warning finger at him with a low
"hist!" the knocker tied over thickly with a great muffler of cloth, lest the sound might come
into the chamber; and then, awful stillness. On a morning later, all the windows are suddenly
thrown open, and strange men bring a red coffin into the house, which, after a day or two,
goes out borne by different people, who tread uneasily and awkwardly under the weight, but
very softly; and after this a weary, weary loneliness. All which drifting over the mind of
Reuben, and stirring his sensibilities with a quick rush of vague, boyish griefs, induces a
train of melancholy religious musings, which, if they do no good, can hardly, it would seem,
work harm. Under their influence, indeed, (which lasted for several days,) he astonished his
Aunt Mabel, on the next Sunday, by declaring his intention to attend church.

It is not the ponderous Dr. Mowry, fortunately or unfortunately, that he is called upon to
listen to; but a younger man, of ripe age, indeed, but full of fervor and earnestness, and
with a piercing magnetic quality of voice that electrifies from the beginning. And Reuben listens
to his reading of the hymn,

    "Return, O wanderer! now return!"

with parted lips, and with an exaltation of feeling that is wholly strange to him. With the
prayer it seems to him that all the religious influences to which he has ever been subject
are slowly and surely converging their forces upon his mind; and, rapt as he is in the preacher's
utterance, there come to him shadowy recollections of some tender admonition addressed to him
by dear womanly lips in boyhood, which now, on a sudden, flames into the semblance of a Divine
summons. Then comes the sermon, from the text, "My son, give me thine heart." There is no repulsive
formality, no array of logical presentment to arouse antagonism of thought, but only inglowing
enthusiasm, that transfuses the Scriptural appeal, and illuminates it with winning illustration.
Reuben sees that the evangelist feels in his inmost soul what he utters; the thrill of his
voice and the touching earnestness of his manner declare it. It is as if our eager listener
were, by every successive appeal, placed in full rapport with a great battery of religious
emotions, and at every touch were growing into fuller and fuller entertainment of the truths
which so fired and sublimed the speaker's utterance.

Do we use too gross a figure to represent what many people would call the influences of the
Spirit? Heaven forgive us, if we do; but nothing can more definitely describe the seemingly
electrical influences which were working upon the mind of Reuben, as he caught, ever and again,
breaking through the torrent of the speaker's language, the tender, appealing refrain, "My
son, give me thine heart!"

All thought of God the Avenger and of God the Judge, which had been so linked with most of
his boyish instructions, seemed now to melt away in an aureole of golden light, through which
he saw only God the Father! And the first prayer he ever learned comes to his mind with a grace
and a meaning and a power that he never felt before.

"Whether we obey Him," (it is the preacher we quote,) "or distrust Him, or revile Him, or forget
Him, or struggle to ignore Him, always, always He is our Father. And whatever we may do, however
we may sin, however recreant we may be to early faith or early teaching, however unmoved by
the voice of conscience,--which is smiting on your hearts, as it is on mine to-day,--whatever
we are, or whatever we may be, yet, ever while life is in us, that great, serene voice of the
All-Merciful is sounding in our ears, 'My son, give me thine heart!' Ay, the flowers repeat
it in their bloom, the birds in their summer carol, the rejoicing brooks, and the seasons in
their courses, all, all repeat it, 'My son, give me thine heart!'

"Oh, my hearers, this is real, this is true! It is our Father who says it; and we, unworthy
ministers of His word and messengers to declare His beneficence, repeat it for Him, 'My son,
give me thine heart!' Not to crush, not to spurn, not for a toy. The great God asks your hearts
because He wishes your gratitude and your love. Do you believe He asks it? Yes, you do. Do
you believe He asks it idly? No, you do not. What, then, does this appeal mean? It means, that
God is love,--that you are His children,--straying, outcast, wretched, may-be, but still His
children,--and by the abounding love which is in Him, He asks your love in return. Will you
give it?"

And Reuben says to himself, yet almost audibly, "I will."

The sermon was altogether such a one as to act with prodigious force upon so emotional a nature
as that of Reuben. Yet we dare say there were gray-haired men in the church, and sallow-faced
young men, who nodded their heads wisely and coolly, as they went out, and said, "An eloquent
sermon, quite; but not much argument in it." As if all men were to plod to heaven on the vertebræ
of an inexorable logic, and not--God willing--to be rapt away thitherward by the clinging force
of a glowing and confiding heart! Alas, how the intellect droops in its attempt to measure
or comprehend the infinite! How the heart leaps and grows large in its reach toward the altitude
of Boundless Love, if only it be buoyed with faith!

"Is this religion?" Reuben asked himself, as he went out of the church, with his pride all
subdued. And the very atmosphere seemed to wear a new glory, and a new lien of brotherhood
to tie him to every creature he met upon the thronged streets. All the time, too, was sounding
in his ears (as if he had yielded full assent) the mellow and grateful cadence of the hymn,

    "Return, O wanderer! now return!"

XXXIX.

Reuben wrote to the Doctor, under the influence of this new glow of feeling, in a way that
at once amazed and delighted the good old gentleman. And yet there were ill-defined, but very
decided, terrors and doubts in his delight Dr. Johns, by nature as well as by education, was
disposed to look distrustfully upon any sudden conviction of duty which had its spring in any
extraordinary exaltation of feeling, rather than in that full intellectual seizure of the Divine
Word, which it seemed to him could come only after a determined wrestling with those dogmas
that to his mind were the aptest and compactest expression of the truth toward which we must
agonize. The day of Pentecost showed a great miracle, indeed; but was not the day of miracles past?

The Doctor, however, did not allow his entertainment of a secret fear to color in any way his
letters of earnest gratulation to his son. If God has miraculously snatched him from the ways
that lead to destruction, (such was his thought,) let us rejoice.

"Be steadfast, my dear Reuben," he writes. "You have now a cross to bear. Do not dishonor its
holy character; do not faint upon the way. Our beloved Adèle, as you have been told, is trembling
upon the verge of the grave. May God in His mercy spare her, until, at least, she gain some
more fitting sense of the great mission of His Son, and of the divine scheme of atonement!
I fear greatly that she has but loose ideas upon these all-important subjects. It pains me
beyond belief to find her indifferent to the godly counsels of your pious aunt, which she does
not fail to urge upon her, 'in season and out of season'; and she has shown a tenacity in guarding
that wretched relic of her early life, the rosary and crucifix, which, I fear, augurs the worst.
Pray for her, my son; pray that all the vanities and idolatries of this world may be swept
from her thoughts."

And Reuben, still living in that roseate atmosphere of religious meditation, is shocked by
this story of the danger of Adèle. Is he not himself in some measure accountable? In those
days when they raced through the Catechism together, did he never provoke her mocking smiles
by his sneers at the ponderous language? Did he not tempt her to some mischievous sally of
mirth, on many a day when they were kneeling in couple about the family altar?

And in the flush of his exalted feeling he writes her how bitterly he deplores all this, and,
borrowing his language from the sermons he now listens to with greed, he urges Adèle "to plant
her feet upon the Rock of Ages, to eschew all vanities, and to trust to those blessed promises
which were given from the foundation of the world."

Indeed, there is a fervor in his feeling which pushes him into such extravagances of expression
as the Doctor would have found it necessary to qualify, if Adèle, poor child, had not been
by far too weak for their comprehension.

The Brindlocks were, of course, utterly amazed at this new aspect in the character of their
pet young nephew from the country. Mr. Brindlock said, consolingly, to his wife, when the truth
became only too apparent, "My dear, it's atmospheric, I think. It's a 'revival' season; there
was such a one, I remember, in my young days."

(Mrs. Brindlock laughed at this quite merrily.)

"To be sure there was, my dear, and I was really quite deeply affected. Reuben will come out
all right; we shall see him settling down soon to good merchant habits again."

But the animus of the new tendency was far stronger than Brindlock had supposed; and within
a month Reuben had come to a quiet rupture with his city patron. The smack of worldliness was
too strong for him. He felt that he must go back to his old home, and place himself again under
the instructions of the father whose counsels he had once so spurned.

"You don't say you mean to become a parson?" said Mr. Brindlock, more than ever astounded.

"It is very likely," said Reuben; "or possibly a missionary."

"Well, Reuben, if you must, you must. But I don't see things in that light. However, my boy,
we'll keep our little private ventures astir; you may need them some day."

And so they parted; and Reuben went home to Ashfield, taking an affectionate leave of his Aunt
Mabel, who had been over-kind to him, and praying in his heart that that good, but exceedingly
worldly woman, might some day look on serious things as he looked on them.

He had thought in his wild days, that, when he should go back to Ashfield for any lengthened
stay, (for thus far his visits had been few and flying ones,) he should considerably astonish
the old people there by his air and city cultivation. It is quite possible that he had laid
by certain flaming cravats which he thought would have a killing effect in the country church,
and anticipated a very handsome triumph by the easy swagger with which he would greet old Deacon
Tourtelot and ask after the health of Miss Almira. But the hope of all such triumphs was now
dropped utterly. Such things clearly belonged to the lusts of the eye and the pride of life.
He even left behind him some of the most flashy articles of his attire, with the request to
Aunt Mabel that she would bestow them upon some needy person, or, in default of this, make
them over to the Missionary Society for distribution among the heathen,--a purpose for which
some of them, by reason of their brilliant colors, were certainly most admirably adapted. Under
his changed view of life, it appeared to Reuben that every unnecessary indulgence, whether
of dress or food, was a sin. With the glowing enthusiasm of youth, he put such beautiful construction
upon the rules of Christian faith as would hardly survive the rough every-day wear of the world.
Even the stiff dignity of Dr. Mowry he was inclined to count only an accidental incrustation
of manner, beneath which the heart of the parson was all aglow with the tenderest benevolence.
We hope he may have been right in this; it is certain, that, if he could carry forward the
same loving charity to the end of his days, he would have won the best third of the elements
of a Christian career, without respect to dogmas.

So Reuben goes back to Ashfield with a very modest and quiet bearing. He is to look with other
eyes now upon the life there, and to judge how far it will sustain his new-found religious
sympathies. All meet him kindly. Old Squire Elderkin, who chances to be the first to greet
him as he alights from the coach, shakes him warmly by the hand, and taps him patronizingly
upon the shoulder.

"Welcome home again, Reuben! Well, well, they thought you were given over to bad courses; but
it's all right now, I hear; quite upon the other tack, eh, Reuben? That's well, my good fellow,
that's well."

And Reuben thanked him, thinking perhaps how odd it was that this worldly old gentleman, of
whom he had thought, since his late revulsion of feeling, with a good deal of quiet pity, should
commend what was so foreign to his own habit. There were, then, some streaks of good-natured
worldliness which tallied with Christian duty. The serene, kindly look of Mrs. Elderkin was
in itself the tenderest welcome; and it was an ennobling thought to Reuben, that he had at
last placed himself (or fancied he had) upon the same moral plane with that good woman. As
for Rose, the joyous, frolicsome, charming Rose, whom he had thought at one time to electrify
by his elegant city accomplishments,--was not even the graceful Rose a veteran in the Christian
army in which he had but now enlisted? Why, then, should she show timidity and shyness at this
meeting with him? Yet her little fingers had a quick tremor in them as she took his hand, and
a swift change of color (he knew it of old) ran over her face like a rosy cloud.

"It is delightful to think that Reuben is safe at last," said Mrs. Elderkin, after he had gone.

"Yes, mamma," said Rose.

"It must be a great delight to them all at the parsonage."

"I suppose so, mamma. I wish Phil were here," said Rose again, in a plaintive little tone.

"I wish he were, my child; it might have a good influence upon him: and poor Adèle, too; she
must surely listen to Reuben, he is so earnest and impassioned. Don't you think so, Rose?"

Rose is working with nervous rapidity.

"But, my child," says the mother; "are you not sewing that breadth upon the wrong side?"

True enough, upon the wrong side,--so many weary stitches to undo!

Miss Eliza had shown a well-considered approval of Reuben's change of opinions; but this had
not forbidden a certain reserve of worldly regret that he should give up so promising a business
career. She had half hinted as much to the Doctor.

"I do not see, brother," she had said, "that his piety will involve the abandonment of mercantile
life."

"His piety," said the Doctor, "if it be of the right stamp, will involve an obedience to conscience."

And there the discussion had rested. The spinster received Reuben with much warmth, in which
her stately proprieties of manner, however, were never for one moment forgotten.

Adèle, who was now fortunately in a fair way of recovery, but who was still very weak, and
who looked charmingly in her white chamber-dress with its simple black belt, received him with
a tender-heartedness of manner which he had never met in her before. The letter of Reuben had
been given her, and, with all its rawness of appeal, had somehow touched her religious sentiment
in a way it had never been touched before. He had put so much of his youthful enthusiasm into
his language, it showed such an elasticity of hope and joy, as impressed her very strangely.
It made the formal homilies of Miss Eliza seem more harsh than ever. She had listened, in those
fatiguing and terrible days of illness, to psalms long drawn out, and wearily; but here was
some wild bird that chanted a glorious carol in her ear,--a carol that seemed touched with
Heaven's own joy. And under its influence--exaggerated as it was by extreme youthful emotion--she
seemed to see the celestial gates of jasper and pearl swing open before her, and the beckonings
of the great crowd of celestial inhabitants to enter and enjoy.

For a long time she had been hovering (how nearly she did not know) upon the confines of the
other world; but with a vague sense that its mysteries might open upon her in any hour, she
had, in her sane intervals, ranked together the promises and penalties that had been set before
her by the good Doctor: now worrying her spirit, as it confronted some awful catechismal dogma,
that it sought vainly to solve; and then, from sheer weakness and disappointment, seizing upon
the symbol of the cross, (of which the effigy was always near at hand,) and by a kiss and a
tear seeking to ally her fainting heart with the mystic company of the elect who would find
admission to the joys of paradise. But the dogmas were vain, because she could not grapple
them to her heart; the cross was vain, because it was an empty symbol; the kisses and the tears
left her groping blindly for the key that would surely unlock for her the wealth of the celestial
kingdom. In this attitude of mind, wearied by struggle and by fantasies, came to her the letter
of Reuben,--the joyous outburst of a pioneer who had found the way. She never once doubted
that the good Doctor had found it, too,--but so long ago, and by so hard a road, that she despaired
of following in his steps. But Reuben had leaped to the conquest, and carried a blithe heart
with him. Surely, then, there must be a joy in believing.

"I thank you very much for your letter, Reuben," said Adèle, and she looked eagerly into his
face for traces of that triumph which so glittered throughout his letter.

And she did not look in vain; for, whether it were from the warm, electric touch of those white,
thin fingers of hers, or the eager welcome in her eyes, or from more sacred cause, a great
joy shone in his face,--a joy that from thenceforward they began to share in common. At last--at
last, a bright illumination was spread over the dreary teachings of these last years. Not a
doubt, not a penalty, not a mystic, blind utterance of the Catechism, but the glowing enthusiasm
of Reuben invested it with cheery promise, or covered it with the wonderful glamour of his
hope. Between these two young hearts--the one, till then, all doubt and weariness, and the
other, just now, all impassioned exuberance--there came a grafting, by virtue of which the
religious sentiment, in Adèle shot away from all the severities around her into an atmosphere
of peace and joy.

The Doctor saw it, and wondered at the abounding mercies of God. The spinster saw it, and rejoiced
at the welding of this new link in the chain of her purposes. The village people all saw it,
and said among themselves, "If he has won her from the iniquities of the world, he can win
her for a wife, if he will."

And the echoes of such speeches come, as they needs must, to the ear of Rose, without surprising
her, so much do they seem the echo of her own thought; and if her heart may droop a little
under it, she conceals it bravely, and abates no jot in her abounding love for Adèle.

"I wish Phil were here," she says in the privacy of her home.

"So do I, darling," says the mother, and looks at her with a tender inquisitiveness that makes
the sweet girl flinch, and affect for a moment a noisy gayety, which is not in her heart.

Rose! Rose! are you not taking wrong stitches again?

RODOLPHE TÖPFFER,

THE GENEVESE CARICATURIST.

In 1842 there appeared in New York a little brochure with scarcely any letter-press, which
contained many pages of the most humorous and spirited sketches. Its title told the whole story,
namely:--

"The Adventures of Mr. Obadiah Oldbuck: wherein are duly set forth the Crosses, Chagrins, Calamities,
Checks, Chills, Changes, and Circumgyrations by which his Courtship was attended. Showing also
the Issue of his Suit, and his Espousal to his Ladye-Love."

Thousands laughed themselves to tears, when looking at these grotesque, yet lifelike pictures;
but scarcely one knew the name of their author, M. Rodolphe Töpffer, of Geneva, Switzerland.

Long before Mr. Oldbuck made his appearance in America, he had been the means of uniting in
fast friendship the great poetic giant of Germany, Goethe, and the modest Genevese caricaturist.
The least of M. Töpffer's merit, however, was his ability to handle the pencil. As a humoristic,
satiric, pathetic, and æsthetic writer, he is unique in the French language. His wonderful
genius was so pliable, that, while he excelled in the power of catching the warmest glow of
Nature in those exquisite descriptions with which his writings are filled, and while, with
picture-words, he could reproduce all the tender beauty of a sunset in the Alps, or the soft,
singing gurgle of the mountain-brook, no one better than he could also portray every subtile
shade and feature of the human mind. He excelled in analyzing character. His mental perception
was sympathetic and ready. His mind-eye was so keen and so piercing, that nothing could escape
its searching glance. The most insignificant attitude of the heart was not only seen, but at
once noted down and studied by him; and in its delicately skilful dissection, Töpffer comprehended
the whole of the individual. Hence his universality. In manner of thought, and in style, his
writings have traits which remind one of Sterne, Addison, Charles Lamb, Montaigne, Xavier de
Maistre, (the author of the famous "Voyage autour de ma Chambre,") and our own Hawthorne.

It is just twenty-three years ago, that Xavier de Maistre, being besieged by publishers for
another of his charming stories, answered, "Before all, take Töpffer, not me." Previously to
this, a Swiss gentleman, while visiting Weimar, introduced to Goethe the comic series already
referred to, which Töpffer had merely thrown off in his hours of leisure. Goethe at once sent
over the Alps for "Mr. Jabot," "Mr. Pencil," "Mr. Crépin," and "Dr. Festus"; and, in the "Kunst
und Alterthum," the great poet expressed to his admiring circle of friends his full appreciation,
of the unequalled ability and charming humor of Töpffer. He went still farther; for, in his
favorite literary journal, he drew the attention of all Germany to the merit of the Genevese
author.

In 1839, M. de Sainte-Beuve introduced, with the highest eulogium, M. Töpffer to the wide and
fastidious world of French letters. Thus did the greatest genius of Germany, the most celebrated
modern romancer of Northern Italy, and one of the first writers of France stand godfathers
to M. Töpffer. Their judgment did not misguide them; for, though Töpffer was not a littérateur
by profession, his few volumes stand out in French literature like those gigantic Alpine summits
whose snow-white purity is never dimmed by cloud-shadows.

But I anticipate. Personal recollections become more interesting in proportion to the distance
of time which intervenes between us and the death of the loved and admired. Violets are not
gathered on a fresh-made grave; and the soil of Memory must have been moistened with tears,
before we can expect it to yield its most cherished flowers.

As some of our author's works, "Les Nouvelles Génevoises," and "Les Voyages en Zig-Zag," have
attracted considerable attention in the United States, a sketch of his life and a mention of
his various writings will be acceptable to American readers.

I was but a child when the name of Töpffer already had for me a significance and a meaning
which no other possessed. I had a feeling of deepest regard and veneration for him, as I would
meet him in the narrow streets of Geneva, or in some of the shaded walks, which clasp, like
loving arms of Beauty, that bright little city of Central Europe. His tall, commanding figure
gave him an air of dignity and patrician distinction; which latter was his by right. When he
looked at you from under the shadow of his broad-brimmed hat, you felt in that gaze there was
power,--a something which dropped from his eye into your very heart, and made its home there.

But allow me to make a détour, and call attention to that city where Töpffer was born, and
where society had such an influence upon his creative mind.

No spot in all Europe has more intrinsic importance than Switzerland. Perched, as it is, amid
inaccessible summits of intellectual and of geographical elevation, it remains the magnetic
centre, towards which, from every part of the world, the sympathies of people most naturally
converge. And Geneva--the proud, miniature Republic--is to-day what she has been for three
long centuries, the Mecca of Switzerland, a luminous altar of freedom of thought and of intellectual
independence, from which bold opinions have sprung and radiated, and around which every son
of Liberty has rallied. The Republic of Geneva stands alone in her celebrity. So small a country
that one morning's drive embraces the whole of its territory, it can yet boast of a nationality
so deeply rooted, and of an individuality so strongly marked, that no foreign invasion and
no foreign contact have ever been able to impair them.

It is impossible, even for the most superficial reader of history, to overlook that great array
of names which made the last years of the eighteenth century so illustrious in Europe. Among
them it is equally impossible not to recognize those which Geneva so proudly furnished. Theology,
Natural Science, Philology, Morals, Intellectual Philosophy, and Belles-Lettres,--all these
branches are admirably represented, and bend down with their luxuriant weight of fruit. The
native land of such men as Bonnet, De Saussure, De Candolle, Calandrini, Hubert, Rousseau,
Sismondi, Necker, has nothing to covet from other countries. Still Geneva became the foster-mother
of many great men. Calvin she took from his own Picardy. Theodore Agrippa d'Aubigné, the grandfather
of Madame de Maintenon, and ancestor of Merle d'Aubigné, the truest friend of Henry IV., Geneva
honored as if her own son. Voltaire so loved Geneva that there he had a residence as well as
at Ferney, and sang with enthusiasm of blue Lake Leman, "Mon lac est le premier." Madame de
Staël was born of Swiss parents in Paris, but her childhood and many of her mature years were
spent in charming Coppet, where the waters of the lake lave the shores within the boundary
of the Canton of Geneva. Sismondi was a native of Geneva, and under the influence of Madame
de Staël, and inspired by his visits to Italy, resolved to devote himself to the past glories
of the land of his ancestors. It was in the city of Geneva that he first delivered those lectures
on "The Literature of Southern Europe," which, in book-form, are so well known to every civilized
nation. Benjamin Constant, another Genevese, was a kindred spirit, who shared with Madame de
Staël a delightful and profitable intimacy. Dumont; (so highly eulogized by Lord Macaulay,)
the friend of Mirabeau and of Jeremy Bentham, was also of Geneva. De Candolle and his son gave
to science their arduous labors. De la Rive in Chemistry, Pictet in Electrology, and Merle
d'Aubigné in History, Gaussen and Malan in Theology, and many others, not unknown to fame,
might be mentioned as continuing the list of distinguished names that testify to the intellectual
supremacy of Geneva.

Here, in our own day, what sons of Fame have gone to linger near a society so congenial! Byron
tells us that his life was purer at Geneva than that which he led elsewhere. Here, amidst the
scenes consecrated by Milton nearly two centuries before, Shelley delighted to dream away his
summer hours. He loved to go forth on the pellucid surface of "clear, placid Leman," there
to drink in the soft beauties of the shores, or to gaze upon the distant sublimities of Mont
Blanc. Here Sir Humphry Davy came, after his Southern tour, and "laid him down to die." Wordsworth
found here the graces of his Westmoreland home wedded to a grandeur which realized the loftiest
conception of his mind. At Geneva, to-day, is found that noble son of France and devoted friend
of America, the Count Agénor de Gasparin.

Here, too, have members of the royal and noble houses of Europe come to be wooed by those waters
whose "crystal face" Byron calls

    "The mirror where the stars and mountains view
    The stillness of their aspect."

The late Charles Albert, the hero King of Sardinia, was educated at Geneva. More than once
did the future benefactor and monarch of Northern Italy stray along the road to Lausanne, or
float in his little shallop on the side of Bellevue, whence he could look upon that prettiest
of summer residences, Pregny, and at night could listen to the trills of the nightingales,
which sing with a tenderness peculiar to the Valley of Geneva. At Pregny lived Josephine, whose
Imperial spouse had driven away from Sardinia the members of the House of Savoy. But Time is
a wonderful magician, and to-day near beautiful Pregny the nephew of Europe's great conqueror
and conquered and the grand-daughter of Charles Albert have their own villa. The favorite residence
of the late Grand Duchess Constantine of Russia was La Boissière, in the Canton of Geneva,
and on the road to Chamouny, not far from the house of Sismondi. The late Duchess de Broglie,
the daughter of Madame de Staël, lived during the winter in the street St. Antoine; near where
M. Töpffer had his house, and in the summer at Coppet. Not far from her, at Genthod, resided
that gentle daughter of America, the Baroness Rumpf, still remembered in New York as the daughter
of John Jacob Astor. The Duchess de Broglie and the Baroness Rumpf are rare instances of the
truest Christian womanhood in exalted stations.--But a whole magazine article would not suffice
to give a list of the great, the noble, and the gifted who have sojourned for a time in the
city of Geneva.

Yet, if Geneva has borrowed some of the great of other countries, she has amply repaid the
debt. She sent her Casaubon to the court of James I. of England, to be the defender of the
faith. Later, she lent to England her De Lolme, who added to his distinguished political acumen
such affluent philological knowledge, that he wrote one of the best works ever written on the
British Constitution in the English and the French languages. She lent to Russia Le Fort, the
famous general and admiral, the counsellor of Peter the Great, the originator of the Russian
navy, and the founder of that army out of which grew the forces that defeated Charles XII.
at Pultowa. During the tempestuous days which signalized the downfall of a monarchy, and while
France was rent asunder by the mad upheavings of an infuriated populace, Necker was called
to the head of the finances. After five years of indefatigable probity, and when his services
had enlisted the profound gratitude of the doomed king, he was compelled to quit Paris. Recalled
again, and again dismissed, his final departure was the signal for a general outbreak, which
resulted in the taking of the Bastille and the overthrow of the House of Capet. Albert Gallatin
she gave to the United States. How curious it is to trace the life of this son of Geneva! Graduating
with honors at his native university, he came to America in 1780, was commander of a small
fort at Machias while Maine was still Massachusetts, was teacher in Harvard University, filled
high places under the government of Pennsylvania; elected Senator to Congress from that State,
(but vacating his seat because his residence had not been sufficiently long to qualify him,)
Secretary of the Treasury under Jefferson, Envoy Extraordinary to sign the Treaty of Ghent,
and for seven years Minister Plenipotentiary to France. He was offered the Secretaryship of
State by Madison, a place in the Cabinet by Monroe, and was selected by the dominant party
as a candidate for the second office in the gift of the American people. All of these last
three proffered honors he refused, and passed the remainder of his long life in the genial
pursuits of literature.

If Geneva has been the fireside of learning and of belles-lettres, it has not been less the
home of the fine arts. Petitot, the celebrated painter on enamel, has handsomely paid his share
to the chefs-d'oeuvres of the seventeenth century. While enjoying the capricious favors of
Charles I. at Whitehall, where he had his lodgings, he worked on some of those perfect portraits
which to-day have their place in the Louvre, and which for ages must remain the triumphs of
minutely finished, expressive Art. Nor is the little Republic poor in contemporaneous artistic
talent. Pradier was born and grew up in presence of Mont Blanc, whose sublime grandeur may
well inspire the dreams of the sculptor and ennoble him. Calame, Diday, and Hubert in landscape
painting, and Hornung in historical painting, (widely known by his "Death of John Calvin,")
are all sons of Geneva. Thalberg, the musician, is a native of Geneva.

The habitual companionship of master minds must necessarily exert an immediate and irresistible
influence upon the rapid growth of thoughts and ideas in the young. And it is not to be wondered
at that those who from their earliest infancy have had the readiest access to such a companionship,
and who have most fully imbibed that influence, retain through the after-years of life a strength
and a boldness of originality essentially opposed to the hesitating timidity of less favored
individuals. In a society like that of Geneva, where family traditions are jealously cherished
as a part of the national history, and where every family has its importance and its well-defined
place, the memory of distinguished men cannot perish, but is handed down from father to son,
as a portion of the state patrimony. Every little boy, as he plays in the street, feels that
he has reason to be proud that he is a Genevese. It was with such sentiments and under such
auspices that Töpffer glided through the years of childhood. He drank deep at the fountain
of inspiration unawares, and manhood found him ready to follow those who beckoned to him from
the pages of history.

Rodolphe Töpffer was born at Geneva on the seventeenth day of February, 1799. As his name indicates,
he was of German descent; but his family had resided so many years in French Switzerland that
he could no longer be claimed by the land of Schiller and Goethe, though it was said that one
of his most distinctive literary characteristics was like that of Mozart in music,--that he
blended the deep, warm feeling of Germany with the light and elegant graces of Southern Europe.

Americans who have visited the public Gallery of Art, known in Geneva as the Musée Rath, will
perhaps recall a small, but very spirited, winter-scene, painted in oil, and which bears the
name of Töpffer. This picture is by the father of Rodolphe. M. Töpffer le père was the first
of that long list of Swiss painters who became devoted students of Nature. The names of Calame,
Diday, (Calame's master,) and Hubert are now known throughout the world; and that of Calame
stands among the first in the rank of eminent living landscape painters. They are worthy successors
of the father of Rodolphe Töpffer, who was peculiarly happy in rendering the mountain-scenes
of Savoy, and in portraying those picturesque and attractive episodes of peasant-life entitled
"The Village Wedding," "The Fair in Winter," etc., etc.

There are but few incidents to record of Töpffer fils. It is in his writings mostly that he
is to be found. Elsewhere he is only passing by; but there he dwells and shines in full radiance.
His life was so quietly modest, so tranquil and far removed from the tumultuous preoccupations
which belong to a fashionable society, it was so simple and pure, that the biographer is at
a loss to find any striking event that may give it an outward coloring. When only a child,
as he so charmingly tells us in his inimitable pages of the "Presbytère," he devoured books,
all sorts of books,--indeed, all the books he could get hold of in his uncle's well-stocked
library. And many an hour of his sunny boyhood did he pass at the window in the house where
he was born, gazing dreamily at the mullions, arches, and fretted work of the old Cathedral,
or at the distant flight of the swallows, while in his mind he dwelt upon some brilliant saillie
of Montaigne or Rabelais. His marked fondness for sketching showed itself in numerous and picturesque
outlines, all of which bore the unmistakable stamp of talent, and foretold in the exuberance
of the boy-fancy what the man would be. Happily for him, happily for us who are allowed to
gather up the crumbs of art and authorship which fell from his ample store, Töpffer enjoyed
the very best and most propitious advantages which in any country can bless childhood. He was
born in the lap of a society daintily intellectual and fastidiously cultivated. His very first
impressions were those of refinement. His very first steps were directed towards culture. There
was no arid waste around him, and he had not to cut his way through the newly broken furrows
of a young civilization. He was taken by the hand of Genius at the very outset of his career,
and was never allowed to falter; for in the successive creations of his pencil and of his pen
there is the same fulness of imagination, the same delicacy of observation, the same exquisite
perfection of analysis. He seems to have understood so well the power of his mind, that he
never ventured beyond his depth, but sustained himself through all his years of authorship
with the same grace and elegance.

And nowhere could he have better artistic encouragement and emulation than in his native city.
We do not remember who said that "in Geneva every child is born an artist," but the statement
would bear investigation. Talent as well as taste for drawing and painting is almost universal,
and belongs as well to the poor as to the rich. It may not be well known that De Candolle,
the celebrated and untiring Genevese botanist, made use, in a course of lectures, of a valuable
collection of tropical American plants, intrusted to his care by a Spanish botanist. Unfortunately,
the herbarium was needed by its owner sooner than expected, and Professor De Candolle was requested
to send it back. This he stated to his audience, with many a regret for so irreparable a loss.
But some of the ladies present at once offered to copy the whole collection in one week, This
was done. The drawings, "filling thirteen folio volumes, and amounting in number to eight hundred
and sixty, were accurately executed by one hundred and fourteen women-artists in the time specified."
In most cases the principal parts of the plants alone were colored; the rest was only pencilled
with great accuracy. Where is the other city of the same size in which such a number of amateur
lady-artists could be found? One of these very drawings, having been accidentally dropped in
the street, was picked up by a little girl ten years old, and was returned to De Candolle,
copied by the child; and it is no blemish to the collection.

The son of an artist, Töpffer found his own career ready made, and stepped into it with all
the instincts of his Art-loving nature. His few early paintings are full of promise. But the
young artist was not destined to distinguish himself in his chosen career. A disease of the
eyes compelled him to give up his favorite pursuit. His brush, still warm from the passionate
ardor with which it had been grasped, was broken and thrown away. Töpffer lamented all his
life long the privation that was thus forced upon him. Art, as a profession, was closed against
his eager ambition; yet he loved Art, and lived for it. Happily for him, he was still in the
complete possession of all his hopes and illusions. Happily for him, he was young; and, without
being discouraged by his great disappointment, he turned the bent of his mind study-ward. Töpffer
became a close student of human nature. He took to analyzing it instinctively, as the bird
takes to the air. He was more than a dreamer, though the charming dreams which we have from
him make us half regret, perhaps, that he did something else besides dreaming. He says, in
his story, "La Bibliothèque de mon Oncle,"--"The man who does not enjoy dreaming his time away
is but an automaton, who travels from life to death like a locomotive rushing from Manchester
to Liverpool. A whole summer spent in this listless manner does not seem de trop in a refined
education. It is even probable that one such summer would not prove enough to produce a great
man. Socrates dreamed his time away for years. Rousseau did the same till he was forty years
old; La Fontaine--his whole life. And what a charming mode of working is that science of losing
time!"

But, either dreaming or working, Töpffer knew well what he was capable of; and without impatience,
without restlessness, he awaited the future, consoling himself with the sentiment he expresses
so well in the following sentence:--"What can be said of those beardless poets who dare to
sing at that age, when, if they were true poets, they would not have too much in their whole
being with which to feel, and to inhale silently, those perfumes which later only they may
know how to diffuse in their verse? There are precocious mathematicians; but precocious poets--never."

Töpffer was right. Life is the true poet. Its teachings drop in tears, and the heart receives
them kneeling, and is in no hurry to babble to the world all their silent beauty.

If Töpffer studied, it was not alone. He had devoted himself to the serious task of education.
His pupils, mostly the sons of wealthy Englishmen and Russians, together with a few lads from
France, Italy, and America, served only to widen his family circle. His relation to them was
charming. As an authority, he used the most winning persuasion. He respected the mental individuality
even of a child, and would use his admirable tact in kindly encouraging every indication of
talent, which, from want of a sufficient self-reliance or of a timely care, was hiding itself.
Year after year, in vacation-time, Töpffer left the city with his thirty or forty young companions,
and with them he travelled on foot through the mountains and around the lakes of Switzerland,--sometimes
pushing in the track of Agassiz over glacier billows, sometimes wandering far down upon the
fertile plains of Lombardy and Venetia. These were always most delightful excursions, when
the ordinary halt became a common enjoyment, not only from the fun-loving spirit of the master,
but also for the promise of future illustrations. After the return home, during the long winter
evenings, Töpffer took either his pen or his pencil, and, with his pupils, re-gathered from
their memoranda and drawings their summer impressions and adventures. Then he made his paper
laugh with the spirited and piquant sketches which all know who have peeped into the "Voyages
en Zig-Zag." Thus his fireside amusements have become those of the world. The "Voyages en Zig-Zag,"
before his death, were already classic in France. The richest luxury of type, paper, and illustration
has not been spared, and edition after edition is scattered in Europe from the Neva to the
Tagus. In the "Voyages" we find the most correct delineation, in words and sketches, of the
peculiarities and glories of Alp-land. The exquisite French of this work has never yet found
a translator.

His early style had something so fresh and so quaint that it can be accounted for only by going
to the books which Töpffer studied. His dii majores were Montaigne and Amyot, and Paul Louis
Courier, a learned Hellenistic scholar, as well as vivacious writer of the French Revolution
and of the first Empire. For Montaigne Töpffer cherished the highest admiration. In his "Reflections
and Short Disquisitions upon Art," (Réflexions et Menus Propos,) he thus tersely sums up the
excellency of the French philosopher:--"Thinker full of probity and grace; philosopher so much
the greater by that which he said he did not know than by that which he thought he knew." In
our own language, Shakspeare was his favorite author. M. de Sainte-Beuve says, "Töpffer was
sworn to Shakspeare," and adds that the works of Hogarth first taught the Genevese writer to
appreciate Shakspeare, Richardson, and Fielding.

Besides possessing the ability to convey instruction to others, Töpffer was a fine classical
scholar. With two other literary gentlemen, he published some excellent editions of the Greek
classics, which he enriched with notes. All these qualifications marked him as the man for
a still higher position. Accordingly, in 1832, when only thirty-three, he was appointed Professor
of Belles-Lettres in the College of Geneva. At the same time, while discharging faithfully
his duties in the College, he conducted, aided by tutors, his little pension, now so well known
by the "Voyages en Zig-Zag."

It was in the midst of these various occupations that Töpffer took his recreation in contributing
to the literary periodicals of Geneva superior essays on Art, and many of those charming stories
which to-day delight us in the collection entitled "Les Nouvelles Génevoises." He also wrote
for political journals. But what made him first known outside those communities where the French
tongue is spoken were his humoristic sketches. They were not thrown off from his fertile and
genial hand for gain or for renown. From childhood, under the influence of artistic example
at home, and of his admiration of Hogarth, he had acquired a remarkable skill in graphically
delineating whatever his close observation of men prompted. Like Hogarth, his artist-wit, his
fun, and his moral teachings took the shape of series. These were handed around the circle
of his intimate friends; yet he had thoughts only of his own amusement and of that of his companions,
and did not contemplate offering them to the public. It was at the urgency of Goethe that he
gave them to the world.

In 1842, as we stated before, "M. Vieux Bois" (Mr. Oldbuck) appeared in the United States;
and the following year, 1843, "M. Cryptogame," under the name of "Bachelor Butterfly," (by
no means so amusing or so full of hits for America as some other sketches,) delighted the Transatlantic
reader.

Visitors to Geneva had their attention drawn to the "Voyages en Zig-Zag" as soon as it was
published; and in 1841 "Les Nouvelles Génevoises" took the literary and artistic world of Paris
by surprise. These simple graphic stories gained the hearts of thousands. French tourists and
French artists sought the basin of Lake Leman, the wild passes of the Vallée de Trient, the
Lac de Gers, the Col d'Anterne, and the Deux Scheidegg, wooed thither by the picturesque pages
of Töpffer. The "Presbytère," a fresh story in the epistolary form, not long after crossed
the Jura, and amidst the artificial, heated literature of Paris, appeared as reviving as a
bracing morning in the Alps.

In this modest way M. Töpffer was unconsciously building up his European reputation. The warp
of his talent is the richest of humor blended with woman-like sensibility and tenderness. Fanciful,
but never exaggerated, he stands before us an amiable philosopher, whose heart is large enough
to comprehend and to pity the frailties of human nature, yet whose spotless purity serves as
a beacon--light on the wreck-strewn shore of human passions. He has not the exaltation nor
the ardent vehemence of Rousseau, neither has he the sentimental morbidity of Xavier de Maistre.
On the contrary, he is always true and always simple, and he remains within the bounds of emotion
which the family circle allows. This must be accounted for by the peaceful life which he led,
(a life so different from that of his French literary brothers,) as well as by the beneficial
influence of the society in which he resided. That society, though cultivated and liberal,
has, in contrast with that of France, remained pure. It retains as its birthright a certain
nameless innocence, unknown in the polished French circles a few leagues beyond. M. de Sainte-Beuve
wonders at this, and asks,--"Is it that man is kept pure and good by the magnificent beauties
in which Nature rocks him there from his babyhood? Is it that the heart becomes awed in presence
of that sublime calm of Nature, and, before he is aware of it, the passions have transformed
themselves into a religious adoration?"

But the true source of the Genevese author's purity was apart from, though deeply influenced
by Nature. He was a man of principle and of religious faith. Töpffer had but to gaze into his
own heart to find all the sweet, the graceful, and the fresh poetry of his country. His untiring
and patient observation of Nature is the secret of his power as a writer. He disdained nothing,
for nothing seemed too small for him. Nature, in none of its phases, could appear insignificant
to his fertile and mellow soul. When he could not soar in the high regions of contemplative
philosophy, he stooped as low as the little child whose rosy cheek he patted, and who then
became to him a teacher and a study. An insect crawling on a leaf,--a bit of grass bringing
the joy of its short life around the stones of the pavement,--a cloud floating over the meadows,--a
murmur of voices in the air,--the wings of a butterfly, or the thundering of the storm above
the lake,--all and everything was the domain where his genial disposition reaped so plentiful
a harvest of rare graces and smiles.

When Töpffer abandoned his brushes for his pen, it seems that the vision of his mind became
intensified, and he began to study man as minutely as he had studied Nature. He became a moral
portrait-painter, in the same way as his illustrious townsmen, Calame and Diday, were landscape
painters. To analyze and to describe became the occupation he most delighted in; and the more
minute the analysis and the more subtile the description, the more also was he pleased with it.

Töpffer's writings are eminently moral. There are few works in French literature in which the
moral aspiration is so alive and the worship of duty so eloquently advocated. In reading them
one feels that the writer did not step beyond his own sentiments, that he did not borrow convictions,
that he did not affect the austerity of a stolen creed. He writes as he feels, and he feels
rightly,--never forgetting to remain indulgent, even when he appears most unbendingly severe.
Then to it all he adds an inexhaustible cheerfulness. His mind wears no dark-colored glasses;
it is strong and healthy enough to bear the dazzling effulgence of the sun. Töpffer was a joyous
man. If he so rapidly seized the ridiculous, it was through his love of fun; but while he laughed
at others, so kind and genial was he ever that he made others join and laugh with him also.

We said that his genius was universal. He is eminently so in his artistic creations. Take,
for instance, his unique comic sketches and compare them with those of other leading caricaturists.
Our impression must be that none are like his. Leech, Doyle, and Gavarni have attained a reputation
which the world acknowledged long ago, and which no one would dare dispute; yet they differ
entirely from the Genevese caricaturist. "Oldbuck" (M. Vieux Bois) is as universal as music
or Shakspeare, and belongs to no one country in particular. All of Leech's pretty women, his
"Mr. Briggs" and his "Frederick Augustus," with his "Haw" and other swell words and airs, are
all unmistakably English. They could have been born on no other soil than England. It requires
an Englishman, or an American familiar with English fashions and foibles, to appreciate them.
The German, the Frenchman, the Spaniard, the Italian, or the Russian, could no more understand
them without a previous initiation, or study and experience of English manners, than they could
speak English without long application and practice. The same may be said of Richard Doyle's
famous "Foreign Tour of Messrs. Brown, Jones, and Robinson." Here we have an irresistible series
of sketches, depicting what the famous trio saw, what they said, and what they did, in Belgium,
Switzerland, and Italy. The interest of that work lies in an intense expression of English
nationality, carried everywhere by the three Englishmen. Their mishaps and adventures are exactly
such as every American has witnessed a thousand times, when some of his cousins from the fast-anchored
isle have visited him. Gavarni, though freer with his pencil than either Doyle or Leech, is
still as much of a Parisian as Albert Smith was a Londoner. Every one of his spirited sketches
is intensely French, and, above all, Parisian. To a person who knew nothing of Paris, who had
never been in Paris, and who was not somewhat au fait with the gay and triste, the splendid
and squalid, the brilliant and unequal society there, these sketches would be meaningless.
Again, Gavarni's pictures are not series. He does not develop his heroes and heroines. He does
not make us feel for them in their mishaps. We do not laugh with them, as we would with friends
or acquaintances, but we laugh at them. We do not once recognize ourselves in them. His portraits
stand before us, but we gaze at them as we would at some half-civilized creatures, with curiosity
more than with mirth; and while we admire and acknowledge the truthfulness of the sketch, we
do not desire to have any familiarity or contact with the individuals represented. Furthermore,
Gavarni is more limited than Doyle, by making the "Sweep," the "Rag-Picker," the "Grisette,"
tell his or her own story; and what each one says is necessary to the comprehension of the
person before you. But very different is Töpffer. He possesses, with the funny conception of
Leech and Doyle, a freer pictorial conception than either, and holds a pencil that is more
at command than Gavarni's. In his single outlines, often of the rudest kind, there is the very
rollicking of freedom, the exact hitting of traits and character. He dashes down his creation
with the quickness of thought, and with as much confidence that Messrs. Oldbuck, Crépin, and
Jabot will leap into the very existence he wishes them to assume, as Giotto had, when, with
a single sweep of his arm, he drew his magic circle. It may be objected, that the comparison
between the two Englishmen and the two Continentals is hardly equal. Doyle and Leech lost,
doubtless, much of their freedom by drawing with hard pencils upon box for the wood-engraver.
Töpffer and Gavarni swept the soft, yielding crayon over the lithographer's stone, and hence
we have the very conception of the artists in their sketches.

The whole Continent roared over "M. Vieux Bois," then England began to laugh, and finally America.
Yet "M. Vieux Bois" was only the portrait of a foolish old bachelor in love. Though born in
Geneva, he was neither Swiss nor French, neither English nor American; he was simply human.
He exemplifies Töpffer's universality.

I have already mentioned the "Nouvelles Génevoises," the "Voyages en Zig-Zag," and the "Presbytère."
But it is not possible to quote from them. Before pages so lively and so picturesquely effective,
one feels embarrassed in selecting any particular portion, lest another should be left unnoticed,--like
the child, who, being told that he may help himself to choice flowers, feels afraid that he
will not take those he most wants, and, in his hesitation, dares not so much as untie the bouquet.
The reader must choose for himself. He can accompany the amiable philosopher in his summer
excursions, take the Alpine-stock, and with him visit the mountain solitudes, or linger around
the blue lakes--those air-hung forget-me-nots--which gem the highest valleys of Switzerland.

His remaining works, published in book-form, are "Rosa et Gertrude," and the "Réflexions et
Menus Propos d'un Peintre Génevois, ou Essai sur le Beau dans les Arts."

"Rosa et Gertrude," given to the public a short time before his death, is considered by some
as holding the first place in Töpffer's works of imagination. It is a touching story of two
orphan girls, deeply attached to each other, one of whom, deceived and maltreated by the world,
receives that kind and Christian charity "which thinketh no evil" from M. Bernier, the good
old clergyman, who is the guardian of Rosa and Gertrude, as well as the narrator of their simple
history. In this book Töpffer has abandoned the humoristic, his ordinary vein in his short
stones, and in taking up the more serious mode of treating his characters has succeeded so
well that Albert Aubert of Paris, in his criticism, says, "In 'Rosa and Gertrude' M. Töpffer
has surpassed himself"; and yet it is not so characteristic as his other writings.

However, that one of M. Töpffer's works which, it seems to me, is destined to live longest
in the future, is his "Réflexions et Menus Propos," etc.,--"Reflections and Short Disquisitions
on Art." Here are the results of twelve years' meditations on Art, by one who felt Art in his
inmost soul, and who understood its practice as well as its theory. In this work we find a
Ruskin without dogmatism, uncertainty, or man-worship. If Töpffer had written several volumes
on his favorite subject, we should not find him, in each succeeding tome, taking back what
he had said in the first. He studied, reflected, rewrote, and then waited patiently for years
before he committed his mature judgment to the perpetuity of print. Long before Ruskin's first
volume appeared, Töpffer's "Réflexions et Menus Propos" had commanded the admiration of the
best writers and artists of the Continent. As an æsthetic and philosophic work, it is of the
highest value. Pearls of thought and beauty are dropped on every side. It is relieved by fanciful
episodes; and yet the whole book starts from and plays around a stick of India ink! It is not
merely a volume in which the professional artist can gain great advantage, but one by which
the general reader is fascinated as well as instructed. The former may discern its scope and
its importance in the felicity with which Töpffer illustrates the true aim of Art, as being
the expression, the idealization, and not the rigid copy of Nature. He maintains that Nature
should be the only teacher, and that we are to be wedded to no man's mannerism.

It is to be hoped that some day the "Réflexions et Menus Propos" may be rendered into English
by one fully acquainted, not only with French, but with the philosophic and the æsthetic writings
of France. If the late Bayle St. John (whose knowledge of the French language and manner of
thought was so thorough) had possessed the finished style of the author of "Six Months in Italy,"
he would have been the very man to have introduced M. Töpffer's works to English readers.

Whoever reads the works which I have thus briefly mentioned will regret that so genial and
gifted a man as M. Töpffer should have been so soon snatched away from earth. It is rare to
find in any author's or artist's life such calm happiness as that which smiled over his existence.
Fame did not spoil him; and if he lived long enough to win it, he died too soon to enjoy it.

The last two years of M. Töpffer's life were years of continual suffering, through which his
amiable cheerfulness never faltered. When he was told by his physicians that he could not recover,
as if he thought only of alleviating the sorrow of those who loved him, he did not give way
for one hour to impressions of sadness, and his private journal alone received the confidence
of the keen regret he felt in taking farewell of his young wife and his lovely children. To
the very last day of his life his friends found him in the evening surrounded by his family,
and even then handling the pencil for their amusement and his own.

On Sundays, Calame dined with him; and we may imagine what a brilliant coloring of thought
must have characterized the conversation of these two sympathetic men.

In 1844, when M. Töpffer had just concluded his romance of "Rosa et Gertrude," his disease
took an alarming turn, and he became aware that he was fast drawing to the close of his earthly
voyage. After two repeated visits to the French watering-place of Vichy, he returned to Geneva.
Towards the end of the following winter he was obliged to abandon those duties which hitherto
had been to him so pure an enjoyment. Unable now to write, he tried painting, which, it will
be remembered, he had given up in early manhood. Leaning heavily forward in his chair, his
easel before him, he painted with an enthusiasm which was the last of his life. But that diversion
could not be kept up long, and he was soon compelled to sit motionless, awaiting his release.

On the morning of the 8th of June, 1846, consoled by the hopes of the Christian, he expired.
On the 14th he was followed to his final resting-place by the whole city, among whom were those
who in him had lost their friend, their colleague, and their master. His remains sleep in the
cemetery of Plain-palais, which he has so graphically described in "La Peur"; but his memory
and his works still live in the minds of his countrymen, and his fame is daily widening, wherever
the good, the true, and the beautiful are appreciated. Of late, it is true; efforts have been
made in various directions to widen their sphere.

JEREMY BENTHAM.

When I first knew this great and good man, he was in his seventy-ninth year, and quite as remarkable
for strength of constitution, (though he had been always ailing up to the age of threescore,)
and for cheerfulness of temper, as for the oddities which made him a laughing-stock for Professor
Wilson and the reprobates of "Blackwood," a prodigious myth for the "Edinburgh" and "Quarterly,"
and a sort of Cocklane ghost for Sydney Smith, Hazlitt, Captain Parry, Tom Moore, and Lord Byron.

His "Benthamee" was believed to be a language he had invented for himself, and quite incapable
of being understood, or even deciphered, by any but a thorough-going disciple, such as Dr.,
now Sir John, Bowring, James Mill, the author of "British India," John Stuart Mill, the two
Austins, or George Grote, the banker and historian of Greece.

"Ah," said Mrs. Wheeler, a strong-minded, clever woman, the Mary Wollstonecraft of her day,
on hearing that I had been asked to the "Hermitage" of Queen-Square Place by Mr. Bentham,--"Ah,
you have no idea of what is before you! I wonder you are not afraid."

"Afraid, my dear Madam! Of what should I be afraid?"

"Afraid of being left alone with him after dinner. He cannot bear contradiction. The queerest
old man alive. One of his most intimate friends told me that he was undoubtedly deranged, mad
as a March hare upon some subjects, and a monomaniac upon others. Do you know that he keeps
a relay of young men, thoroughly trained for the work, to follow him round all day and pick
up his droppings,--or what his followers call 'sibylline leaves,'--bits of paper, that is,
written all over with cabalistic signs, which no mortal could ever hope to decipher without
a long apprenticeship? These 'leaves' he scatters round him right and left, while on the trot
through his large, beautiful garden, or, if in the house, while taking his 'post-prandial'
vibration,--the after-dinner walk through a narrow passageway running between a raised platform
in what he calls his 'workshop,' and the outer partition. Here he labors day after day, and
year after year, at codification, without stopping to draw a long breath, or even to look up,
so afraid is he of what may happen to the world, if he should be taken away before it is all
finished. And here, on this platform, the table for one guest, two secretaries, and himself
is always set, and he never has more than one guest at a time."

Extravagant and laughable as all this appeared to me at the time, I found truth enough at the
bottom, before six months were over, to justify many of the drollest caricatures.

That Mr. Bentham's minutes were drops of gold about this time, and his half-hours ingots, in
the estimation of others, I had reason to know,--of others, too, among the foremost celebrities
of the age. Hence, though he gave capital dinners, it was one of the rarest things in the world
for a stranger to be seen at his table. The curious and the inquisitive stood no chance; and
men of the highest rank were constantly refused the introductions they sought.

"Anne, if the Duke of Sussex calls, I am not at home," said he one day to his housekeeper:
nobody ever knew why.

And there were hundreds of distinguished men, otherwise well-informed, who believed in Jeremy
Bentham, afar off, somewhat as others do in the heroes of Ossian, or in their great Scandinavian
prototypes, Woden and Thor. If to be met with at all, it was only along the tops of mountains,
where "mist and moonlight mingle fitfully."

For myself, I can truly say, that, of those I met with, who talked most freely about him, and
who wrote as if well acquainted, not only with his works, but with the man himself, there was
not one in fifty who had ever set eyes on him or knew where to look for the "Hermitage," while
the fiftieth could not tell me whether he was an Englishman or Frenchman by birth, (most of
his writings on jurisprudence being written by him in French,) nor whether he was living or dead.

Nevertheless, they were full of anecdotes. They went with the scoffers, and quoted Sydney Smith
and "Blackwood," while "the world's dread laugh" made them shy of committing themselves to
any decided opinion. But if Bentham was a myth, surely Dumont was not, and the shadow might
well be allowed to prove the substance; and yet they persisted in believing the most extravagant
inventions, and the drollest, without investigation or misgiving.

And even I,--I, myself,--though familiar with his works, both in French and English, was so
much influenced by the mystery about him, and by the stories I heard of him, and by the flings
I saw in the leading journals, that I was betrayed into writing as follows in "Blackwood,"
about a year before I first met Mr. Bentham, notwithstanding my profound convictions of his
worth and greatness, and my fixed belief that he was cruelly misunderstood and shamefully misrepresented,
and that his "Morals and Legislation" and his "Theory of Rewards and Punishments" would change
the jurisprudence of the world, as they certainly have done:--

"Setting aside John Locke's Constitution for North Carolina, and Jeremy Bentham's conundrums
on Legislation, to speak reverently of what we cannot speak irreverently of, a truly great
and incomprehensible mind, whose thoughts are problems, and whose words--when they are English--miracles,"
etc.

This paragraph occurs incidentally. I durst not go farther at the time; for Bentham had never
been mentioned but with a sneer in that journal. I was writing a review of another "British
Traveller in America," whose blundering misrepresentations had greatly disturbed me. The book
was entitled, "A Summary View of America ... By an Englishman." My review was the longest paper,
I believe, that ever appeared in "Blackwood." It was the leader for December, 1824; and on
the back of the title-page is a note by Christopher North himself, (Professor Wilson,) from
which I extract the following rather significant passages.

"Our readers will perceive that this number opens with an article much longer than any that
ever appeared in our journal before. As a general rule, we hate and detest articles of anything
like this length; but we found, on perusing this, (and so will our readers, when they follow
our example,) that in reality every paragraph of it is an article by itself; in fact, that
the paper is not an article, but a collection of many articles upon subjects, all full of interest,
and most of them not less important than interesting."

"In short, this review of a single book on America contains more new facts, more new reasonings,
more new speculations of and concerning the United States of America, than have as yet appeared
in any ten books (by themselves, books) upon that subject. This is enough for us, and this
will be enough for our readers.

"We do not know personally the author of this article; nor do we pledge ourselves for the justice
of many of his views. From internal evidence we believe that he says nothing but what he believes
to be true."

On the whole, perhaps, I had better add another paragraph from Christopher North's note. It
may serve to disabuse not a few of my countrymen who have hitherto misunderstood the purpose
of my "mission" abroad, and especially the nature of my connection with the "Blackwood" freebooters.

"It is certain that he does know America well," continues the Professor; "and it is equally
certain that we fully participate in his feelings, as to the folly or knavery of every writer,
English or American, who libels either of these countries for the amusement of the other; and
we have not the smallest doubt that the appearance of such a writer as we have had the good
fortune to introduce will henceforth operate as a salutary check both on the chatterers of
the 'Westminster Review' and the growlers of the 'Quarterly.'"

Entertaining the opinions I have stated with regard to Mr. Bentham and his labors, and being
well aware that his early writings in English (the "Fragment on Government," for example, wherein,
at the age of twenty-eight, he enters the lists with Blackstone so successfully, and the "Defence
of Usury," an argument not only unanswered, but unanswerable, to this day) were such models
of clearness, strength, and precision, and so remarkable for a transparent beauty of style,
that the first was attributed to Lord Mansfield, and the last to others of like reputation;
while some of his earlier pamphlets (like that which is entitled "Emancipate your Colonies,"
being an address to the National Assembly of France, whose predecessors had made him a French
citizen, or the "Draught of a Code for the Organization of the Judicial Establishment of France,"
written at the age of two-and-forty) were quite as remarkable for genius, warmth, manly strength,
and a lofty eloquence, as the earlier writings mentioned were for clearness and logical precision,--how
could I be guilty of such irreverence, not to say impertinence?

My answer is, that the believers in "Blackwood," having been pampered so long on highly seasoned,
fiery pap, to which the lines of M. G. Lewis might often be applied,--

      "And this juice of hell,
      Wherever it fell,
    To a cinder burned the floor,"--

were not ready for the whole truth, for the strong meat, much less for the lion's meat I should
have been delighted to serve them with; and so, as in the case of Leigh Hunt and some others
eminently obnoxious to that journal, I slipped in the few words I have quoted incidentally,
as a sort of entering wedge: and the result in both cases, I must acknowledge, fully justified
my expectations; for neither Mr. Bentham nor Leigh Hunt was ever unhandsomely treated or in
any way disparaged by that journal from that time forward, so far as I know.

Let me add, that I did this for the same reason that I began writing about our country, and
about the institutions, the people, the literature, and the fine arts of America, as if I were
an Englishman,--for otherwise what hope had I of being admitted into the "Field of the Cloth
of Gold," or of being allowed to break a lance in the tournament which was always open there?--and
that I continued writing as an Englishman long after it was known by Blackwood himself, and
by Wilson, that I was not only an American, but a Yankee, and a Yankee to the backbone, and
that the signature I had adopted--"Carter Holmes"--was not so much a nom de plume as a nom
de guerre, till I had got possession of the enemy's battery, and turned the guns upon his camp.

In personal appearance, in features, and in the habitual expression of countenance, Mr. Bentham
bore an astonishing resemblance to our Dr. Franklin. He was, to be sure, of a somewhat heavier
build, though shorter by two or three inches, I should say, judging by the bronze full-length
you have in Boston. The prevailing expression was much alike in both; but there was not so
much of constitutional benignity in the looks of Bentham, nor was he ever so grave and thoughtful
as Franklin is generally represented in his portraitures; but he was fuller of shrewdness and
playfulness,--of downright drollery, indeed,--of boyish fun,--and, above all, of a warm-hearted,
unquestioning sympathy for everything alive, man or beast, that he called "virtuous," like
the "virtuous deer" and the "affectionate swan": and all this you could see plainly in the
man's countenance, whether at play or in repose.

So great, indeed, was the outward resemblance between these two extraordinary men,--so much
alike in appearance were they, though so utterly unlike in reality,--that, after Mr. Bentham
had passed the age of threescore-and-five, a bust of Dr. Franklin, by a celebrated French artist,
was bought by Ricardo, at the suggestion of La Fayette, I believe, and sent to Mr. James Mill
for a likeness of Bentham.

"Do you know," said the philosopher to me one day, while talking upon this very subject, "that
Ricardo was my grand-disciple?"

"Your grand-disciple? How so?"

"Why, you see, Mill was my disciple, and Ricardo was his; ergo, Ricardo was my grand-disciple:
hey?"

But perhaps you would like to see for yourself the "white-haired Sage of Queen-Square Place,"
as Dr. Bowring, now Sir John Bowring, used to call him,--the "Philosopher,"--the "Hermit,"--the
"High Priest of Reform," as others, like Mr. Canning, the Premier, Sir Samuel Romilly, Sir
Francis Burdett, the two Mills, father and son, Dr. Southwood Smith, the Austins, and Frank
Place, the great radical tailor, used to call him.

If so, have the goodness to follow me step by step for a few minutes, forgetting all the long
years that have interposed, and you shall see him, with your eyes shut, as I saw him first,
and as I continued to see him almost every day for eighteen months or so, face to face.

Picture to yourself a man "fourscore and upwards," like Lear, and like Lear, too, "mightily
abused," about five feet seven, a little stooping, but still vigorous and alert; with a pleasant,
fresh countenance, and the complexion of a middle-aged, plump, healthy woman, such as Rubens
or Gilbert Stuart would gloat over in portraiture, and love to paint for a wager; with a low,
cheerful, trembling voice in conversation, though loud and ringing in the open air; large,
clear, bluish-gray eyes,--I think I cannot be mistaken about the color, though Hazlitt, who
was a tenant of Bentham's at one time, and got snubbed for some little impertinence, which
of course he never forgave, calls them "lack-lustre eyes"; very soft, plentiful white hair,
slightly tinged with gold, like flossed silk in the sunshine,--pushed back from a broad, but
rather low forehead, and flowing down to the shoulders. This white hair, when the wind blows
it about his face in the open air, or he is talking earnestly at his own table,--and he never
goes to any other,--he has a strange habit of throwing off with a sudden crook and spring of
the left elbow, and a sort of impatient jerk of the left forefinger, which has come to be so
characteristic of the man himself, that, if Mathews (Charles Mathews) were to do that, and
that only, before you, after you had been with Bentham for five minutes, you would have, not,
perhaps, a photograph or a portrait, but a "charcoal sketch" of the philosopher, which you
would instantly acknowledge. And, by the way, this reminds me that I wanted to call these "Charcoal
Sketches,"--that title being mine long before the late Joseph C. Neal borrowed it of me without
leave, and used it for his "Loafer" and a variety of capital sketches, which have been attributed
to me, and still are, notwithstanding my denials. I wrote one number only,--the first. It was
a Yankee sketch; while his were street sketches, and among the best in our language.

But let us return to the living Bentham. The stoop, you see, is not so much on account of his
great age as from a long habit of bending over his abominable manuscript,--the worst you ever
saw, perhaps, not excepting Rufus Choate's or Napoleon Bonaparte's,--day after day, and year
after year, while adding his marginal annotations in "Benthamee" to what has been corrected
over and over again, and rewritten more than once by the secretary.

He wears a plain, single-breasted coat, of the Quaker type, with a narrow, straight collar,
and a waistcoat of thin, striped calico, all open to the weather, and trousers,--not small-clothes,
nor breeches, never being able to look at himself in breeches without laughing, he says; thick
woollen stockings rolled up over his knees, and shoes with ties instead of buckles,--in short,
the every-day costume of our Revolutionary fathers, barring the breeches, the shoe-buckles,
and the ruffles, which he never could endure.

In the warmest weather he wears thick leather gloves, and in the coldest a straw hat, bound
and edged with the brightest green ribbon, and carries a stout stick of buckthorn, which he
has named Dapple, after the ass of Sancho Panza, for whom he professes the greatest admiration.

While thus equipped, and while you are in conversation with him perhaps, or answering one of
his hurried questions, he starts off ahead in a slow trot, up one alley and down another, or
to and fro in the large garden of Queen-Square Place,--the largest but one of all that open
into the Green Park; and this trot he will continue for a whole hour sometimes, without losing
his breath or evincing any signs of weariness,--occasionally shouting at the top of his lungs,
to show that his wind is untouched, till the whole neighborhood rings with the echo, and the
blank walls of the Knightsbridge Barracks "answer from their misty shroud."

On the whole, therefore, that extravagant story told by Captain Parry has a pretty good foundation,
though he never saw with his own eyes what he describes with so much drollery, but took the
whole upon trust; for Mr. Bentham was in the habit of going after his annuity every year, trotting
all the way down and back through Fleet Street, with his white hair flying loose, and followed
by one or both of his two secretaries. He was the last survivor--the very last--of the beneficiaries,
and seemed to take a pleasure in astonishing the managers once a year with his "wind and bottom."
Parry represents him as being taken for a lunatic running away from his keepers.

Having now the man himself before you, let me give you some idea of his habits and characteristics,
his temper,--and I never saw him out of temper in my life, though he had enough to try him
almost every day in his household arrangements,--his kindness of heart, his drollery, and his
wonderful powers of endurance, while working out the great problem of his life.

At the time I knew him, he used to sleep in a bag, and sometimes with most of his clothes on.
This he did for economy. "It took less of sheeting," he said. Then, too, there was not so much
likelihood of his getting the clothes off, should he get restless or fidgety. He was read to
sleep every night by one of his secretaries, who told me that he often amused himself with
reading the same paragraph or the same page over and over again, without turning a leaf, the
philosopher declaring that he had never lost a word of the whole, and that he not only understood,
but remembered, the drift of the author. In this way my "Brother Jonathan," then just published
by Blackwood in three large volumes, was read to him every night for weeks, and greatly to
his satisfaction, as I then understood; though it seems by what Dr. Bowring--I beg his pardon,
Sir John Bowring--says on the subject, that the "white-haired sage" was wide enough awake,
on the whole, to form a pretty fair estimate of its unnaturalness and extravagance: being himself
a great admirer of Richardson's ten-volume stories, like "Pamela" and "Clarissa Harlowe," and
always looking upon them as the standard for novel-writers.

Mr. Bentham was very "regular" in his habits, very,--and timed most of his doings, whether
asleep or awake, by a watch lying on the table. But then he always breakfasted between twelve
and three, or a little later on special occasions, and always dined at half past six, or thereabouts,
taking two cups of strong coffee in bed every morning, though he never allowed himself but
one, and died in the belief that he had never broken the pledge.

And yet, notwithstanding all this, he maintained that there is no getting along in this world--or
the other--without "regularity," or what he called "system." And that "system" he carried into
all the business of life, as well as into legislation and government; going back, after years
of uninterrupted labor and the severest analysis, to invent a panopticon, a self-sustaining
penitentiary, or rather to apply that invention of his brother, General Sir Samuel Bentham,
to the bettering of our prison-houses and to the restoration of the lost,--or perhaps a ballot-box,
that nothing might be wanted, when that "system" he valued himself so much upon should be adopted
throughout the world, as the outlines already are.

Scores of anecdotes are crowding upon my recollection, as I call to mind his affectionate manner,
his habitual good temper, and his amiable, almost childish, kindness of heart. While yet a
boy, for example,--and this he told me himself, with a singular mixture of self-complacency
and self-depreciation, as if more than half ashamed of his weakness,--while yet a boy, he was
on a visit, where two different persons undertook to help him to the goodies, among which was
a magnificent gooseberry-pie, one of his favorite dishes to the last. He ate until he could
eat no more. A third person offered him another piece; but, notwithstanding his capacity, being
"full up to here," he was obliged to refuse. He couldn't swallow another mouthful, and the
idea of ingratitude was so strong with him that he fell a-crying. I have no doubt of his entire
truthfulness; but I could not help thinking of the poor boy at his grandfather's table on Christmas-day,
who began at last to take things rather seriously. "What's the matter, Georgie? what are you
crying for?" said the grandfather. "I can't eat another mouthful, grandpa," said Georgie, still
blubbering. "Never mind, my boy, never mind, fill your pockets." "They're all full now, grandpa."

One of the cleverest women I ever knew, Mrs. Sarah Austin, the magnificent mother of Lady Duff
Gordon, and the author of a capital and safe book on Germany, which seems to be little known
here, though greatly esteemed there, once wrote me as follows. She was a great favorite of
Mr. Bentham, a pet indeed; and her husband, the elder Austin, John, was a disciple of the philosopher,
a briefless barrister, though one of the clearest reasoners and profoundest thinkers of the
age, as a paper on Jurisprudence, in the "Encyclopædia Britannica," will show. He wrote very
little, but his pages were worth volumes; and he gave Benthamism unadulterated and undiluted,
though made intelligible to the "meanest capacity," in or out of the "Edinburgh" and the "Quarterly,"--grasping
every subject he handled with fingers of steel.

"God bless you," she says, after we had been talking about the philosopher and his vagaries
and whimsicalities,--"God bless you for exalting me in my beloved grandpa's good graces. You
can't think how dearly I do love him, legislation and all that apart; and yet, if there ever
was a woman peculiarly prone to love and admire a man for his public affections and public
usefulness, I do say I am that she, and that I could not love a paragon of beauty, wit, and
private kindness, if he looked on the good or ill being of mankind with indifference or scorn,
or with anti-social feelings. Think of the divine old man growing a sort of vetch in his garden
to cram his pockets with for the deer in Kensington Garden. I remember his pointing it out
to me, and telling me the 'virtuous deer' were fond of it, and ate it out of his hand. I could
have kissed his feet; it was the feeling of a kind, tender-hearted, loving child."

He had another pet, almost a rival on some special occasions for Mrs. Austin. It was a large
sleepy-looking tomcat, very black, and of a most uncommon seriousness of deportment. The philosopher
treated him with great consideration, I might almost say reverence, and called him Doctor,--but
whether an LL. D., a D. D., or only an M. D., I never clearly understood, though I have a faint
recollection, that, on the happening of some event in which Tom bore a part, he accounted for
the deference he showed, by calling him the Reverend Doctor somebody. Like Byron, too, he once
had a pet bear; but he was in Russia at the time, and the wolves got into the poor creature's
box, on a terrible winter's night, and carried off a part of his face, a depredation which
the philosopher never forgot nor forgave to his dying day. He always kept a supply of stale
bread in the drawer of his dining-table for the "mousies."

When he introduced me to Mr. Joseph Hume, the great penny-wise and pound-foolish reformer,
he begged me to bear in mind that he was only a Scotchman, or "no better than a Scotchman";
and he once gave me an open letter to the celebrated philanthropist, Dr. Southwood Smith, which
he asked me to read before it was delivered. I did so, and found that he wished the Doctor
to know that I had been at Queen-Square Place a long while, and that, so far as he knew I had
neither told lies nor stolen spoons. Of course I delivered the letter, leaving Dr. Smith to
take the consequences, if any silver should be missed after I left him.

And, by the way, this reminds me that this very Dr. Smith was the individual to whom he bequeathed
his body, with certain directions, which appear to have been carried out to the very letter,
according to Miss Margaret Fuller, who describes what she herself saw with her own eyes not
long after Mr. Bentham's death.

"I became acquainted with Dr. Southwood Smith," she says. It is set up in a show-case, just
as Barnum would do it.

One other incident, showing his imperturbable good temper, and I have done. A Frenchman had
somehow got access to him,--through Dr. Bowring, I believe. No sooner was he seated than he
pulled out Mr. Bentham's pamphlet, already mentioned, and entitled, "Emancipate your Colonies,"
which opens in this way:--

"You have made me a Frenchman. Hear me speak like one."

This the poor Frenchman read, in an ecstasy of admiration, as if written, "You have make me
a Frainchman. Hear me speak like own." Yet Mr. Bentham kept his countenance, gave the poor
fellow a good dinner, and gossiped with him till the time had run out.

But Mr. Bentham could be "terribly in earnest," when the proper occasion arose. Aaron Burr
had been a guest of his for a long while, after being driven abroad by the outburst of indignation
here,--and, while with him, made such revelations of character, that Mr. Bentham, who acknowledged
his talents, actually shuddered when he mentioned his name. Burr declared, in so many words,
that he meant to kill Hamilton, because he had threatened to do so long before. He told Mr.
Bentham, while boasting of his great success with our finest women, that Mrs. Madison herself
was his mistress before marriage; and seriously proposed--in accordance with what may be found
in his Life by Matthew L. Davis, about educating daughters and sons alike, and exposing them
in the same way--that he would send for his daughter Theodosia, and Mr. Bentham should take
her for his mistress; and in a marginal note, now before me, by the Reverend John Pierpont,
I find abundant confirmation of what Mr. Bentham told me, though Mr. Davis undertook to say
that the stories of Aaron Burr's bonnes fortunes were true, and that he had a trunkful of letters
from the leading women of his day to prove it, and that Mr. Bentham was untrustworthy. Upon
this point I challenged him to the proof; but he shrunk from the issue.

"This reminds me," says Mr. Pierpont, in the note referred to, "that Colonel William Alston,
the father of Joseph, who married Miss Burr, once told me, at his own table, that, soon after
the marriage of his son to Miss Burr, her father, Colonel Burr, had told him, (Colonel Alston,)
that, rather than have had his daughter marry otherwise than to his mind, he would have made
her the mistress of some gentleman of rank or fortune, who would have placed her in the station
in society for which he had educated her.

"I believe, however," he adds, in a postscript, "that not even parental authority or influence
could ever have brought the beautiful and accomplished Miss Theodosia Burr thus to prostitute
herself to her father's ambitious purposes."

In speaking of Burr, one day, and of his wonderful strength of character and keenness of observation,
he broke away suddenly, called him an "atrocious scoundrel," and then asked me about his life
and history. Then it was that the kind-hearted, benevolent old man underwent a sudden transfiguration.
He trembled all over; his clear eyes lighted up; his white hair was like a glory about his
face; and he seemed like one of the Hebrew Prophets, in his terrible denunciations of the heartless
manslayer, and the shameless, boastful profligate.

Our very pleasant, and, to me, most profitable intercourse for a year and a half was brought
to an end by the happening of two or three incidents. His fat housekeeper, who ruled him with
a rod of iron, and insulted Mrs. Austin and others, undertook to manage me in the same way,
and got packed off in consequence, though I did all I could to keep the secret, and prevent
the catastrophe; but he insisted on knowing why I left him, and he applied to the secretaries,
who were witnesses of the whole transaction. The philosopher was indignant, and insisted on
her making me a suitable apology. I said I wanted no apology, having made up my mind to go
on my journey. She refused, and he cut her adrift, after having been so dependent upon her,
I know not how many years, that he would allow her to say, "The pan is put away," when he asked
for more of a favorite dish,--fried parsley,--which he had prepared for Dr. Macculloch, the
geologist, who at one time could eat nothing else. She was reinstated, however, within two
or three years after I left him.

The other incident was this. Mr. Bentham had urged me to write a paper for the "Westminster
Review," of which Dr. Bowring and Mr. Henry Southern were the editors. I did so, and took for
my text four or five orations by Webster, Everett, and Sprague, and then launched out upon
the subject of Jurisprudence, of the Militia System, as it prevailed here at the time,--a monstrous
folly, and a monstrous outrage upon the rights of man,--and of Slavery. The proof came without
a word of alteration or amendment. Of course I had nothing to do but correct any verbal errors.
But, lo! when the article appeared, not only had changes been made, passages struck out, and
various emendations worked in, but I was made to say the very reverse of what I did say, and
to utter opinions which I never entertained, and for which I have had to suffer from that day
to this among my countrymen.

For example. The editor, who had never seen the pamphlets, as he proves by calling them "books,"
interpolates the following, which, as I have said before, I have had to answer for:--

"Violent exaggeration is the character of American literature at the present day, and, compared
with the chaster and more rational style of our best writers, the style of the North American
authors is usually the rant and unmeaning vehemence of a strolling Thespian, when placed beside
the calm, appropriate, and expressive delivery of an accomplished actor." Bear in mind that
the samples I gave were from Webster, and Everett, and Sprague!--three of our coldest and clearest
crystals, and among the least impassioned, and certainly the least extravagant, of our orators.
"Sometimes," the editor adds, with a show of relenting at last, "sometimes the reader will
find these remarkable parts the worst, and sometimes the best of the paragraph, and often composed
in a spirit worthy of a less vitiated expression."[D]

This was a little too much; but, owing to the expostulations of Mr. Bentham, who had wasted
about twenty or twenty-five thousand dollars on the "Westminster Review," without a hope of
getting a sixpence in return, I consented to overlook the outrage. But my confidence in the
amiable Dr. Bowring was ended forever. We had a short interview, but no intimacy after this,
and I had begun to think of Northern Europe more seriously than ever, when at last the tiff
with the housekeeper settled the question,--the Doctor declaring, though he knew from Mr. Bentham's
own lips how much he desired me to stay, and how unwilling he was to part with me, that he,
Mr. Bentham, said that he would as lief have a rattlesnake under his roof!

FOOTNOTES:

[D] See "Westminster Review" for January, 1826.

THE FORGE.

CHAPTER I.

"One more horse to shoe, Sandy. The man's late, but he's come a matter of ten mile, perhaps,
over the cross road by Derby, yonder. Lead the critter up, boy, and give a look at the furnace."

I stooped to replenish the glowing fire, then turned toward the door, made broad and high for
entrance of man and beast, and giving a coarse frame to the winter landscape without. The trees
fluttered their snow-plumed wings in the chill wind; on the opposite hill a red light glared
a response to our glowing smithy. It was the eye of elegant luxury confronting the eye of toil;
for it shone from the windows of the only really fine mansion for miles around. I had always
felt grateful to those stone walls for standing there, surrounded by old trees on lawn and
woodland, an embodiment to my imagination of all I had heard or read of stately homes, and
a style of life remote from my own, and fascinating from its very mystery.

But I anticipate. My glance travelled over the intervening stretch of level country, wrapped
in its winding-sheet of snow, and stopped at a tall figure confronting me, leading by the bridle
the finest horse I had ever seen.

"Well, young man, shall you or I lead in the horse?" he asked, haughtily; "that light on the
hill must be reached before an hour goes by, if I would keep an engagement"; and tossing me
the bridle, as he spoke, he drew carelessly toward the forge.

The few villagers whose day's work was ended, or whose business called them to the smithy,
suddenly remembered waiting wives and children at home, the bit of supper spread for their
return, or the evening gossip at the tavern; and thinking the matter they came for could wait
the morning, since the smith was busy, gave way, and left only the stranger, my master, myself,
and the noble horse grouped around the forge.

"Look alive, Sandy! you'd better keep at it steady, if you want to git to your schoolin' to-night,"
growled the blacksmith, in an undertone; for he, too, had a memory for the smoking dish at
home, and would gladly stop work to eat of it.

So I busied myself at once collecting the needed materials, while the smith proceeded to lift
the horse's leg and examine the foot. The animal resisted the attempt, however, by plunging
in the most violent manner.

"Confound the beast!" muttered the blacksmith, as he dodged to escape a kick.

"I thought as much," said the stranger, quietly. "The horse is very particular as to who handles
him. I shall have to hold his foot, I suppose"; and with rather a scornful smile, as if the
dislike of his horse to my master confirmed his own, he stepped up and held out a slender brown
hand.

The horse lifted his foot, and gently dropped it on the outstretched palm. No bird ever settled
more trustfully on its nest.

My master swore an oath or two by way of astonishment, and then, seizing his shoe, approached
again. But the scene was repeated with even more violence on the part of the horse: he pranced,
reared, shook his head, and snorted at the smith, who again drew off.

"I sha'n't get off to-night," murmured the stranger, impatiently.

"Let me try," I said. "Horses have their fancies, as well as people. He'll like me, may-be."

"May-be he will," laughed my master, hoarsely; "but you're not a boss at puttin' a shoe on.
A dumb critter might take a shine to you, who's one of their kind." And again he laughed at
his own wit.

"Step up and try," exclaimed the stranger, impatiently.

I grasped the leg firmly in my hand; the horse made no resistance, and I began my work.

"Well, seein' as you've made friends with the critter, I'll be the gainer and take a bit of
supper," said my master, after a dogged stare. "Be sure you put it on strong, Sandy. I don't
say as I'll charge any more, though I'd make a man pay for showin' he'd a spite agin me, let
alone a dumb critter." And taking his hat from a peg, he walked off, leaving me, with the sparks
flying from the forge, busy at the shoe, and the stranger, with one arm across the neck of
the horse, watching me.

Ten minutes of silent work, and, as I loosened my grasp on the leg for a moment, I met the
eye of the gentleman, who, I was conscious, had been watching me narrowly.

"The horse likes you," he said, pleasantly, here again as though he shared the feeling.

"Yes," I replied. "Is he in the habit of doing as he did to-night with strangers?"

"He is fastidious, if you know what that means,--as fond of gentlemen as his master," he returned,
so pleasantly, that, when I looked up, reddening at the cool assumption of the speech, blacksmith's
apprentice though I was, my eye fell beneath the amused glance of his.

"I'm not a gentleman," I said, after a pause,--a little resentfully, I fear; "but I'm not a
clown, like my master."

"No, that one can see at a glance," he replied. "You may be a gentleman for aught I see to
the contrary; but it requires a great deal to make one.--What school was that the blacksmith
spoke of?"

"It is a village class kept by a young lady who rides over from the hillside twice a week to
teach us poor fellows something. I'm learning to draw," I added,--the frankness coaxed out
of me by a sympathy implied rather than expressed.

"And you are sorry enough to lose any of this lesson," he said, kindly, as I put the horse's
foot, firmly shod, upon the ground. "There is the regular pay which goes to the smith, I suppose;
and here is a ten-dollar bill for you, if you have the sense to take it. I don't know what
kind of a youth you may be; but you have a good head and face, and evidently are superior to
the people about you. You don't feel obliged to use their language or lead their life because
you are thrown with them, I suppose; but neither are you obliged to leave this work because
you are better than the man who calls himself your master. Learn all you can and get a smithy
of your own. A good blacksmith is as respectable as a good artist," he said, looking at me
keenly, as he mounted his horse, and then rode rapidly through the village street.

CHAPTER II.

I was no proud-spirited hero to work my way independently in the world, but a poor blacksmith's
apprentice, glad of every penny honestly earned or kindly given; so I handled my bill over
and over again with real pleasure. Amos Bray, my master, was about as well to do as any man
in the village, its doctor excepted; but I doubted if Amos ever had a ten-dollar bill over
and above the quarter's expenses to spend as he liked.

The smithy often glowed with the double fire of its forge and my fancy. I walked about with
a picture-gallery in my brain, and was usually led into its rather meagre display whenever
the past was recalled or the future portrayed. The smithy hung there, in warmth and brightness,
a genuine Rembrandt of light and shadow, filled with many an odd, picturesque group on winter
evenings, or just at twilight, when the fire had died away to its embers. My master had gone
home, and work was over; the village children in gay woollen garments and with ruddy faces
crowded round the door, fringing brightly the canopy of darkness within.

Again, when, after days of monotonous work, I felt a benumbing sense of being but a part of
the world's giant machinery, chosen because the mobility and suppleness of human material worked
by the steam-power of the brain were more than a match even for the durability and unwearied
stroke of steel or iron, the warm blood rushed back, life throbbed again with its endless ebbs
and flows of desire and disappointment, as my master's daughter, with her golden hair and innocent
eyes, summoned us to dinner, breaking like blue sky and sunshine through the cloud-rifts of
our toil.

But now the smithy was not merely idealized, it was transformed. The stranger, whose haughty
bearing and address had changed to kindly and appreciative words, had filled it with a new
presence and excited new hopes.

Pleased as I was with the unexpected gift of money, the stranger's hint of my superiority to
those around me was a more generous bounty still. I had been jeered at for years by the village
boys, because I never followed my master to the tavern in the evenings to listen to the gossip
there and learn to drink my mug of beer, and because I rarely talked with any one except a
few of the village children more modest than the rest.

The alphabet of my mind, like that of the race, was first found in the hieroglyphics of the
pencil; and by its aid I communicated with my little friends more frequently than by word,
drawing pictures for them with chalk on the rude walls of the smithy, and carving images of
the various devices my experience or imagination suggested out of wood with my master's jack-knife.

From this group of children had arisen a constant companion and sympathizer in my master's
daughter. In leisure hours we explored the woods together, or she sat beside me while I pored
over the few old books which were my father's sole legacy to me.

During the last winter and this, however, my evenings had been almost constantly occupied in
study and sketching at the class to which I have alluded. What an endless store of drawing-materials
now loomed before me! And what a swelling of heart I experienced at the thought that the aims
for which I had been taunted by the villagers were acknowledged by my new friend as a ground
of superiority!

I was startled from these pleasing dreams by my master's voice.

"Hullo there, Sandy! where's the money for that job? He's a mean one, if he a'n't made it double."

Instinctively I thrust my ten-dollar bill into one pocket, as I drew the pay for the horseshoeing
from the other. He swore a little as I handed it to him, but he knew me well enough never to
doubt my honesty; and, as I was leaving, he called, with a gruff kindness,--the only approach
to courtesy of which he was capable,--

"Hurry up, Sandy; Miss Bray can't git Sary Ann to bed till she sees you, and you're late for
your schoolin' besides."

So I ground my way quickly through the snow, choosing the middle of the street, because it
was less worn, and helped me better to work off my unusual excitement.

My master's cottage stood on the same street with his smithy. In fact, this Main Street was,
as its name indicated, the principal thoroughfare of Warren; the real village life all centred
here; and it contained, besides the stores and the church, the dwellings of the more prosperous
inhabitants. The smithy being at one end, on the outskirts, as it were, of the social and gay
life, Mr. Bray had been able to rent it for a low sum, although more pleasantly situated than
any other building on the street. Here the land made a slight ascent, giving a more extended
view of the valley and distant hills than at any other point. The business character of this
street mingled oddly in summer with the rural life around it. At several right-angles, green
and mossy lanes, arched by venerable elms, seemed to be offering their crooked elbows to lead
it back to the simple pastoral life from which it sprang.

Bordering these sequestered paths, which were dignified by the title of streets, were cottages
surrounded by small inclosures, whose proprietors cultivated vegetables, hens, pigs, and cows,--these
last being, quite unconsciously, the true surveyors of Warren; for, in direct obedience to
pathways they had worn when traversing the fields to and from their homes, chewing the quiet
cud of meditation, had the buildings been erected. Outside these lanes, again, were the larger
land-owners, whose farms formed the outer circle of our life.

Annie Bray was fond of penetrating beyond these various circles of social existence, and wandering
far off to the woods and hills, whose ring of emerald, studded now and then with the turquoise
of some forest-lake, inclosed us as in a basin.

As I entered the kitchen of the cottage, Mrs. Bray, a stout woman of forty, the oracle of her
sex in the village as to matters of domestic economy and dress,--which last was of a more costly
and varied material than the others could afford, abounding in many-colored prints, and a stuff
gown for Sunday wear,--made her appearance, her apron covered with flour, an incrustation of
dough on each particular finger, which it always destroyed my appetite to see.

"Well, Sandy, I'm glad you've come. You've jest sp'iled Sary Ann. There she sets a-nid-nid-noddin'
on that stool, and won't stir to bed till she sees Sandy."

There, by the stove, sat the blacksmith's blue-eyed daughter, a proof that God sometimes interferes
with hereditary botch-work, and makes a child fresh and fair, letting her, like a delicate
flower in noisome marsh or stagnant water, draw pure, nourishing juices out of elements poisonous
to anything less impregnated with Himself.

To be sure, through ignorance of the nature of the child intrusted to them, the blacksmith
and his wife blundered with her tender soul and beautiful body. One of their most heinous crimes
against her, in my estimation, had been in the bestowal of the name of Sary Ann,--a filial
compliment paid by Mrs. Bray to the mother who bore her. Then they dressed her in the brightest
of red or orange, so that Nature, which had tinted her complexion brightly, though delicately,
seemed forever to be put to shame by the brazen garments which infolded her. They called her
'sp'iled,' when her innocent eyes filled with tears at her father's oaths or her mother's coarse
scolding; and though her tender beauty touched the rough smith with a kind of awe, he often
said, "Such pootty gals a'n't of much use. I mistrust if Sary Ann will ever 'arn her livin'."

Anxious as I was to get to my class this evening, I could not neglect my little friend; so,
going hurriedly to her, I said, as I bent over the head which at every breath of sleep waved
like a pale golden flower on its stalk,--

"Good night, Annie. To-morrow evening I'll be home earlier, and then we can have our lesson
together."

And she, quite satisfied, held up her face for a kiss, and rose to leave the room.

"Your supper is a-warmin' in the stove, Sandy," said Mrs. Bray; but I did not wait either to
eat it or to chat with her about the stranger whose horse I had shod, and who interested her
because she thought he might have given "Amos" extra pay. Reminding her of my lesson, I pushed
up the rickety stairs to my attic, and began as quickly as possible to make those preparations
for meeting the teacher which the young men of the class, impelled by a rude kind of gallantry,
never failed to observe, and which they described by the expressive term of "smartenin' up."

CHAPTER III.

The class met in the village school-house; and when I entered, Miss Darry, our teacher, was
seated at her desk, talking to about a dozen rough country youths, of ages ranging from fourteen
to twenty-five, and of occupations as diverse as the trades of the village afforded.

She was of medium height, rather full than slim, with clear, intelligent, dark eyes, a broad,
open forehead, a nose somewhat delicately cut, a wide mouth, with thin lips, and teeth of dazzling
whiteness. Her whole aspect was that of physical and mental health,--not only removed from
morbid sensitiveness, but as far from sentiment even as a breezy spring wind, and yet as prompt
to fathom it in others as the wind to search out violets.

One would think that even an ordinary nature might have so revealed itself through such a face
as to give an impression of unusual beauty; yet such was not the case,--and this, it seemed
to me, because she had no feminine consciousness of personal beauty or attractiveness. I know
that unconsciousness is regarded as the first element of fascination; and it may be, when it
pervades the entire character: but Miss Darry was conscious of mental power, of the ability
to wrest from the world many of its choicest gifts, to taste the delights of scholarship, of
self-supporting independence and charity to range freely over the whole domain where man is
usually sole victor; and thus one felt the shock of a vigorous nature before recognizing the
fact that it was clad in the butterfly robes of a woman's loveliness.

Her evening teaching of us was purely a labor of love. Fortunately, she was not of that shrinking
nature which dreads contact with persons less refined than itself. There was a world of sympathy
in her frank, good-natured smile, which placed her at once more in harmony with her scholars
than I, who had passed my life among them. There was, too, a dash and spirit about this young
woman, in which I, as a man, was entirely lacking; and it was this element which held her rough
pupils in subordination.

I was the only one of them who had not been communicative with her. My lessons were always
better prepared and understood than those of the others, yet I talked less with her about them;
and in the half-hour after recitation, which she devoted to my drawing, I rarely uttered a
word not called forth by my occupation at the moment.

To-night, however, I must have betrayed my new mood to the first glance of her keen eye; for,
after the other scholars had stumbled noisily out of the room, she turned to me, saying,--

"Well, Sandy, often as you have been here, I have never seen your visor of reserve or diffidence
lifted until to-night. Do you mean to let me share your happiness? Bob Tims has been telling
me that the rosy-faced girl up by Fresh Pond has smiled upon him; and Tracy Waters says he's
'going to hoe his own row next year, and not spend his strength for Dad any longer': they are
both happy in their way, but, mind, I don't expect such confidences from you, Sandy."

Miss Darry spoke without satire. She sympathized with these rough natures far more than with
many of the more polished whom she met in society, and I could not withhold my confidence from
the cordial smile and ready ear which waited to receive it.

So I related the incident of the afternoon, revealing unconsciously, I suppose, many a budding
hope, which waited only the warm sun of opportunity and encouragement to burst into blossom.

"I am very glad for you, Sandy," she said, giving me her hand, as I concluded. "Your village
friends would probably advise you to hoard the money as so much towards a forge; while others,
less judicious than your new friend, would say, 'Give up your trade, and support yourself by
your brain'; but I say, support yourself by your forge, and let what surplus power you have
be expended on your mind."

And here let me hold the thread of my story a moment, to express my sense of the wisdom of
Miss Darry's advice. It would be well, perhaps, if more men, when striving to elevate their
condition, should still rely upon the occupation to which they have been trained, as a stepping-stone
to something better. Now and then comes an exceptional character, a David Grey, who must follow
the bent of his genius, and listen so intently to the melody to which his soul is set that
the coarser sounds of daily toil are dumb for him; but usually the Elihu Burritt who strikes
hard blows with hands and brain alike is the man to achieve success.

"Your friend may be worth far more to you than his money," continued Miss Darry, thoughtfully.
"He can do much more for you than I, if he only will."

"Do you know him?" I exclaimed. "Tell me who he is."

"A tall, dark-eyed gentleman, on a magnificent horse," she replied, playfully. "I shall know
him, Sandy, from your description, if I meet him."

And she placed my crayon-study before me, changing so entirely from confidential friend to
teacher, that I had no resource but to relapse into my customary shyness.

After the lesson, we consulted as to the purchases to which my money had best be applied. She
offered to buy the books I needed in the city, to which she was going soon for a visit, but
she insisted on supplying me with drawing-materials as before. Our good-bye was said more cordially
than usual, and I drew on my overcoat and closed the door with the comfortable feeling that
my welfare was becoming a matter of interest to others besides myself.

CHAPTER IV.

The man who drove over from the hillside with Miss Darry was always waiting in the sleigh when
I went out from my lesson. To-night, however, he was not to be seen. Supposing he had merely
stopped for one more glass than usual at the tavern, I walked down the street, but, finding
that he did not appear, and disliking to leave Miss Darry alone in the school-house, so late
in the evening, I resolved, as I approached the turn which led into Main Street, to go back
and investigate the matter. The tavern was beyond the school-house, at a little distance from
the village,--as, indeed, it should have been, to insure sleep to its quiet-loving inhabitants.
As I approached the school-house again, I saw Miss Darry, warmly muffled for the drive home,
walking also in the direction of the tavern. "She surely cannot know what rough men go there,"
I thought, and, conquering my awkwardness, I ran after her.

"Miss Darry!" I cried, when within a few steps of her. She turned, and I strode to her side.
"I am going to the tavern to look after your driver; it will never do for you to go there alone.
Hadn't you better go back to the school-house and wait for me?" I said.

"You must have a great deal of native gallantry, Sandy. One would imagine, from your lot in
life, you had not been used to seeing women shielded from disagreeable duties. I will go on
with you, and wait outside," she answered, smiling. So we walked on together.

The sleigh stood before the tavern-door. A warm buffalo was thrown over the horse, who was,
nevertheless, pawing impatiently in the snow, as if aware that it was time to go home. Asking
Miss Darry to get into the sleigh, for I would not have taken the liberty of assisting her
for the world, I hastened up the low wooden steps, and, pushing open the door, stood inside
the bar-room. I had heard snatches of song, as we drew near, and, afraid lest they should reach
Miss Darry's ear also, I closed it after me. A few of the village loafers were there, with
the addition of one or two less harmless characters, who, strolling through the country, had
tarried here for refreshment and a frolic: among the latter was the man for whom Miss Darry
was waiting, stretched in a state of intoxication on the floor. I made my exit as soon as by
a glance I comprehended matters, yet not soon enough to escape the recognition of the villagers,
who cried out, "Come on, Sandy Allen!--don't slink off that way!--let's have a drink!"

As I stood by the sleigh, explaining to Miss Darry the condition of her driver, a crowd of
the half-drunken fellows came out of the tavern, and staggered down the path toward us. I had
not the courage to offer to drive her home, but she did not wait for me to grow bolder.

"Jump in, Sandy,--no, not on the front seat,--here by me. I am afraid of those men. Besides,
I want to talk with you."

So I seated myself next her, drew the warm robe over us both, and just as one of the men attempted
to seize the reins, declaring he had himself promised to carry the lady home, I caught them
from him, and we drove rapidly up the street.

Somehow Miss Darry's confession of a little feminine timidity put me more at ease with her
than I had ever been before. I was a strong, muscular fellow of nineteen, perfectly able to
defend myself in circumstances of ordinary danger, and proud that a woman so superior to me
should trust in my readiness to protect her. Life and vigor tingled in every nerve of my body;
the clear, stinging winter air, exhilarating to healthy, as wine is to enfeebled bodies, thrilled
me with enjoyment; and I was seated beside the most intelligent and appreciative companion
I had ever known.

How much of my life, with its restless desires and unsatisfied tastes, must have revealed itself
in that ride, which seemed only too short, as she asked me to drive up the avenue leading to
the stone house, whose beacon I had looked at that same evening from the forge!

"Do you live here?" I asked, in surprise, as we drove swiftly along.

"Yes, I teach Miss Merton's little sisters."

We had no time for further words. The horse stopped before the house, whose great hall-door
swung open, letting a flood of light stream over the stone steps. A young girl, wrapped in
an ermine cape, ran down to us, followed by the stranger whose appearance in the forge that
afternoon had created such a tumult in my mind.

The scene was a beautiful one. Every shrub and tree on the lawn was enveloped in a garment
of more dazzling purity than the ermine before me. The moonlight was radiant, the stars sparkled
lustrously in the steel cold sky, the earth was carpeted and canopied with a beauty more resplendent
than the graceful luxuriance of summer. Miss Darry probably ascribed my immovable position
to artistic enjoyment of the landscape, for I remained perfectly quiet while she explained
the cause of her detention to Miss Merton.

"We have been quite anxious about you," said the gentleman, as she concluded; and turning to
me, "Why, we are indebted for your safe return to the young man by whom my horse was shod this
evening!"

And before I could stammer a reply, Miss Darry exclaimed,--

"Jump out, if you please, Sandy. I should like to do the same."

I did so, mechanically, and was about to stand aside for the gentleman to offer his hand, but
she extended hers to me, and sprang lightly beside me.

"You will surely take cold, Alice," said the gentleman, drawing Miss Merton's hand within his
arm, and turning to ascend the steps. Then, first, I awoke from mingled surprise and admiration
sufficiently to say quietly,--

"I must go home. Good evening."

"Not at all," exclaimed the gentleman, turning round; "it is nearly twelve o'clock, and I verily
believe you think of walking back to Warren to-night. You must take the horse and sleigh, if
you go. Shall he not, Alice?"

Miss Merton, thus appealed to, replied by saying to me,--

"Come in with us, Mr. Allen, and get warmed at least. I have heard Miss Darry speak of you
as the one of her class in whom she is especially interested; so you see we are not strangers,
after all."

There was no condescension in the gentle voice and smile for even my sensitiveness to detect.
I had never been addressed as Mr. Allen before; and this of itself would have confused me sometimes,
but now I forgot myself in admiration of her.

That face was of perfect contour. Small and delicately fair, soft bands of light-brown hair
shaded the low, smooth brow and large gray eyes, and the full red lips were tremulous with
varying expression. Her hands and figure were of the same delicate outline as her face. And
as her cape blew aside, I noticed the violet silk she wore, of that blended blue and purple
so becoming to blondes.

It were surely a narrow view, to ascribe this grace of expression and manner, so peculiarly
womanly, this evident desire to please even, betrayed in careful attention to the artistic
finish and details of dress, to vanity or coquetry merely,--it is so often the outgrowth of
a beauty-loving nature, to be found in some of the most sensitive and refined of the other sex.

Looking at Miss Merton, therefore, I seemed to have a vision of what Annie Bray might become,
if she were developed from within and surrounded from without by that halo of refinement which
crowned the lady before me. Already I was developing an Epicurean taste for that spirit of
beauty which flooded Annie Bray's humble life as well as her own.

Miss Darry spoke to me, as we went up the steps; but to what I assented I do not know. I listened
to the low tones in front of me. I have always possessed a preternaturally quick ear; but I
confess I might have used it to better purpose on that occasion.

"Now, Hamilton, of course he must stay all night," she whispered, as she leaned on the gentleman's
arm; "and I want you to make him feel perfectly comfortable in doing so."

"Certainly, if he will; but pray don't spoil him, Alice, darling. Because he is a youth of
some scholarship, a good deal of refinement, and develops a talent for drawing, it is no reason
he should be made to forget he's a blacksmith."

"It is too late for theories to-night, Hamilton," she replied, playfully. "I have none, you
know, like you and Frank Darry. I only wish to treat him considerately. We can afford to forget
distinctions which undoubtedly seem a great barrier to him. If he stays, he shares our hospitality
like any other guest."

The answer I did not catch. I had heard enough, however, to feel both grateful and irritated.

I went in and warmed myself by the coal-fire in the library. I looked covertly at books and
Miss Merton while toasting my hands, and answered intelligently, I believe, Mr. Hamilton Lang's
questions as to the village and my pursuits there. I did not neglect to speak a few cordial,
yet respectful, words to Miss Darry, at parting; but all I clearly recall is the fact that
I insisted upon going home that night, and that Miss Merton, kindly offering to lend me any
books I could find time to read, laid her little hand in my rough palm at parting.

CHAPTER V.

There was a variety-store on Main Street, with "JANE DINSMORE" painted in letters of mingled
blue and orange on the sign above its door. Miss Dinsmore boarded in one of those green lanes
whose inhabitants formed the second circle of Warren society. To this fact it may have been
partly due that she was less appealed to than Mrs. Bray on all questions of social etiquette;
but undoubtedly a more sufficient reason was to be found in Miss Dinsmore herself, who, though
more beloved than any other woman in the village, had a suppressed, quiet manner, not at all
adapted for leadership. Her reputation was that of having been a pretty, giddy young girl,
a farmer's daughter; but some great crisis had swept over her life, muffling all the tinkling
melodies, the ringing laugh, the merry coquettings of the village belle. It was rumored that
the old story of disappointed love had changed the current of her life. Jenny Dinsmore, though
humbly born and bred, had been fastidious; the uncouth advances of her rustic admirers were
not agreeable to her; and so the romance of the fresh young heart was expended on a college
youth, who found his way to Warren from classic halls for the renovation of physical and moral
health, and who, attracted by her pretty face and figure, made his rustication less burdensome
by devotion to her.

Jenny had not one of those weak natures whose influence dies away in absence. She had inherited
some of the old farmer's sturdy traits of character, and her affections had a clinging tenacity
of hold which would not suffer the young scholar to throw her off so easily. When he returned
to college, he walked the grounds more than once, summoning through the avenues of embowering
elms the slender figure, the smiling face, with the glow of the setting sun upon it, which
had so often awaited his coming at the stile of the old orchard.

However, parental authority, and the prospect of an ample fortune on good behavior, soon convinced
the young man of his folly. Let us be thankful, who note this brief sketch of their mingled
fortunes, that he had a tender care for Jenny's trusting nature, and removed the sting from
the sorrow he inflicted by making her believe it inevitable. Thus this little wellspring of
romance forever watered and kept fresh her otherwise withered life; if subdued, she was not
bitter; and no one can tell how the thin, wan face renewed its youth, and the wrinkled cheeks
their pinkish bloom, caught in that far-off spring-time in her father's orchards, as, sitting
in her solitary room, she remembered the man, now occupying a prominent position in life, who
said, as he bade her tenderly good-bye, that he would never forget her, no matter what woman
reigned by his fireside, or what children played on his hearth. Perhaps, in his stately library,
no book was so welcome on a winter's evening as an idyl of rural life, no picture so pleasing
as that of some Maud Muller raking hay or receiving the dumb caresses of the cows she milked.

What would the elegant woman, with her costly jewels, India shawls, and splendid equipage,
have thought of this whilom rival, who issued every summer morning from the lane, in her hand
a bunch of those simple flowers, occupying, as she did, the border-ground between the wild
hemlock and honeysuckle of the wilderness and the exotic of the parterre, the bachelor's-button,
mulberry-pink, southernwood, and bee-larkspur, destined to fill a tumbler on an end of the
counter where she displayed her most attractive goods?

She prided herself upon the tastefulness and variety of her selections: ribbons and gowns,
pins, needles, soap, and matches for all; jars of striped candy for well, and hoarhound for
sick children; and a little fragrant Old Hyson and San Domingo for venerable customers. She
walked about gently; was never betrayed into any bustle by the excitement of traffic; liked
all sweet, shy, woodland natures, from Annie Bray to squirrels; and contracted an affection
for me because of my diffidence and devotion to the former.

Whenever she came to the cottage, she poured oil upon the turbulent waters of its domestic
life; coaxed up Amos as daintily and charily as a child would proffer crumbs to a bear in a
menagerie; pleased Mrs. Bray by accounts of her city shopping; and petted Annie, giving her
occasionally, in a shy way, some bow or bit of silk, of an especially brilliant hue, which
had caught her eye in town. She was a very useful member of the Methodist Society, for she
had always innumerable odds and ends for pin-cushions and needle-books; and although her religious
experiences did not seek those stormy channels which the Reverend Mr. Purdo believed to have
been elected for the saints, yet her sympathies were so ready, her heart so kind, that, when
he saw her after a day of activity collect her bunch of flowers again in her hand, and start,
as she often did, for one of the lanes or outlying farms, to watch through the night with some
sick woman or child, he was fain to remember that "faith without works is dead."

Miss Dinsmore's store was exceedingly attractive to the young people of the village. She lent
a cordial ear to every matrimonial scheme; was quite willing that all preliminaries for such
arrangements should be settled within her precincts; and many a tender word and glance, doubtless,
received its inspiration from a conspicuous stand for bonnets, whose four pegs were kept supplied
with those of Miss Dinsmore's own manufacture, originally white, but so seldom demanded for
village wear that the honey-moon in Warren shed its pale yellow beams on this crowning article
of bridal attire long before it was donned by the happy wearer. These bonnets were severally
labelled on modest slips of paper, after city nomenclature, "Bridal Hat"; and Miss Dinsmore
would on no account have parted with them for any less occasion, however festive; so that one
consulting her stand had as accurate a knowledge of impending marriages as could have been
obtained from the "publishing-list" of the "meeting-house."

Moreover, Miss Dinsmore herself was laboring under that hallucination, not infrequent with
maiden ladies rather advanced, that her own spring-time was perennial; and though by no means
disposed to displace the hero of her youth from his supremacy in her heart, she yet accepted,
with the ordinary feminine serenity, gallant attentions from youths over whose infant slumbers
she had, in times of domestic disturbance, often presided. Hence it happened that the "Variety
Store" often afforded the first introduction to Warren society; indeed, so sharp was the rivalry
between it, as a lounging-place, and the tavern, that, when a youth was won over from the bar-room
to its counter fascinations, his work of regeneration was regarded by Mr. Purdo as begun; and
the walk round the corner to the parsonage (which Miss Dinsmore's hats suggested) made his
calling and election sure.

Entering the store, therefore, on one of my leisure evenings, I was not surprised to find there
a number of Miss Darry's class, and the Reverend Mr. Purdo himself, who had evidently walked
in to discover what young men had sowed their wild oats and were seeking the "strait and narrer
path" between Miss Dinsmore's counter and the wall. Mr. Purdo was of middle height, and portly;
and there was such a sombre hue about the entire man,--black suit of clothes, jet-black hair,
eyebrows, and eyes,--that it was a relief to find that Nature had relented in her mourning
over making him, and bestowed a sallow complexion, which strove to enliven his aspect by an
infusion of orange. He greeted me with a mild and forgiving manner, which at once reminded
me of the quiet strolls I occasionally preferred, on a pleasant Sunday, to a prolonged sitting
and homily in the church; but I was glad of his presence, since it would be likely to restrain
the boisterous mirth of the young men, when I should make known my errand.

Since seeing Miss Merton, my imagination had been so filled with the idea of how complete a
transformation Annie Bray would undergo, if only the ugly garments she wore could be pulled
away like weeds from her sweet, flower-like beauty, that I resolved to expend a part of my
money in buying her a dress. With diffidence, therefore, I made known my wish to Miss Dinsmore,
who responded at once with a ready comprehension of the whole matter.

"I know jest what'll suit you, Sandy. Nothin' like vi'let for blue eyes and yeller hair; my
own was like June butter once, but of course it's been darker since I've grown up" (Miss Dinsmore's
gold was fast becoming silver); "Sary Ann's is changin', too, I see. Miss Bray says she isn't
over-fond of stirrin' round; and I shouldn't wonder if 't was so. Sary Ann don't look no more
like workin' than a buttercup; but then, as I tell Miss Bray, corn is made for usin' and flowers
for starin' at, and I don't know as any special sign is set on either of 'em to show which
is the best. Don't mind them youngsters, Sandy; they're always pretty chipper of an evenin'.
You see, I've measured off this piece of calico,--nine yard and a finger; if you like it, seein'
it's for you and Annie, and a remnant, I'd want it to go cheap."

It was as near the shade of Miss Merton's dress as the coarser material could copy it; and
with all the embarrassment of a novice in such matters, I signified my wish to take it, when
the door swung open to admit Annie Bray herself, who had come to make some trifling purchase
for her mother.

"All right, Sandy; we'll settle some other time," whispered Miss Dinsmore, quite aware that
I should scarcely like to make so public a presentation of my gift, and quietly concealing
it in a sheet of wrapping-paper, while Annie, surprised and pleased at seeing me, approached
the counter.

"Bless your sweet face, it isn't often I see it of an evenin'," was Miss Dinsmore's welcome
to her favorite.

"Beauty's but a witherin' flower," said Mr. Purdo, by way of professional improvement of the
occasion, and pointing the remark by a glance at Miss Dinsmore, whose early bloom he undoubtedly
remembered. "Still it's cause for great gratitude, Sary, that your cheeks are so rosy,"--here
a general laugh warned him of the dangerous admission, and he added,--"it shows you're healthy,
and that's a most aboundin' blessin'."

"That's so!" exclaimed Tracy Waters. "You're mighty pretty now, Sary Ann; and it a'n't no use
to look ahead to the time when you won't be, is it?"

Annie's cheeks glowed more deeply still now. She was accomplishing her errand as quickly as
possible; and while Miss Dinsmore tied up her parcel, Tracy Waters bent over her, whispering.
It may have been only that "innate gallantry" alluded to by Miss Darry that made me reprove
his evidently unwelcome admiration.

"Annie is a shy little thing. Don't you see, Tracy, that she doesn't like flattery?" I exclaimed,
angrily approaching them.

"I see pretty plain that you don't want her to have it from any other fellow than yourself,"
he answered, roughly. "Miss Annie," he added, in imitation of my manner, "supposin' I see you
home?"

But I pushed past him and went out of the store with her.

"He says I am to be his little wife by-and-by," said Annie, a most unusual expression of disgust
and alarm ruffling the quiet serenity of her face; "but that can never be, unless I wish it,
can it, Sandy?"

"I should think not, indeed," I answered, smiling at her earnestness. "When he speaks of it
again, tell him I want you myself."

"That would be a good way to stop him," she replied, accepting graciously this solution of
her present difficulty.

CHAPTER VI.

Miss Darry, knowing I could borrow books at Hillside, and that those which I already possessed
were the old English classics, bought for me in the city only a Greek Grammar, through whose
intricacies she proposed to be my guide, and a box of water-colors, and brought to me some
lives of the old painters from Miss Merton's library.

She bewildered my mind by telling me of all there was in store for it in the way of work and
study. Her interest in my progress seemed to have received a new impetus from her visit in
town. She described the rooms where were casts of legs and arms, heads and groups of figures,
to which I might one day have access, with the privilege of copying; and in return I showed
her two crayon sketches I had made in her absence. Michel Angelo might have relished the knotty,
muscular development of the arm I showed her first. If there is beauty and satisfaction in
coarse brute strength, this member of my master's body was worthy of all praise. On another
sheet I had drawn, by way of contrast, Annie's delicately small and fair, but round, arm and
hand, which might have served in her infancy as models for those of one of Raphael's cherubs.
She liked them both, and said that I should do as well, perhaps, in the school of Nature as
anywhere, for the present.

She desired me to become a sculptor, for form appealed more strongly to her nature than color;
and it seemed to be tacitly decided between us that Art was to be my vocation. She thought
that my strong hands, accustomed to labor, could hew my own idea out of the marble for the
present, and save the expense of workmen. And then she described to me the beautiful marbles
she had seen abroad, where the artist's inspiration was so chastely uttered by the purity of
his material, declaring that a subject which coloring would debase might be worthily treated
by the chisel. And when I exclaimed, that Autumn, with her glowing palette, was as pure an
artist as the old sculptor Winter, chiselling in unvaried white, she reminded me that Nature
was infinite, handling all themes with equal power and purity; but that man, in copying, became,
as she thought some of the Preraphaelites had done, a caricaturist, in attempting to follow
her too closely. I was unconvinced by her arguments, but held my newly bought color-box as
a means of proving to her the wisdom of my choice.

When I was about to leave, she said,--

"Sandy, pray don't make an enemy of Tracy Waters on account of any words you had the other
evening about the blacksmith's little girl. He's a rough, but kind fellow, and your superiority
and desire to rise in life will stir up envy enough of themselves. Why not let him show his
admiration of the child, if he wanted to?"

"Oh, have they been telling you about that, Miss Darry?" I answered, awkwardly. "If you knew
Annie Bray, you would not ask me why I didn't let him bend his great rough face over hers.
She's only a child in years, to be sure; but she has a woman's modesty."

"Oh, well, if she shrank from it, of course, as a gentleman, you were bound to take her part;
but don't spoil your chances in life, Sandy, I beg, by any entanglement with these villagers
of which you may repent. A pretty country lassie to smile when you look at her would doubtless
be a comforting companion in your struggles. But once attain what you long for in other ways,
and you will crave an intelligent friend, whose gaucheries shall not forever put you to the blush."

Miss Darry, in her appreciation of my abilities, sometimes forgot my lack of attainment. I
was not always familiar with her quotations, but now I was more disturbed by her regarding
so seriously my brotherly devotion to Annie Bray, and by the depreciating estimate which she
held of her.

"I did not know you looked down so entirely upon our villagers. The only way in which I could
expect to differ from them is through my talent for painting, if I prove to have any. My mother
was a good woman, gentle and quiet in her ways, but only a farmer's daughter; and though my
father was the village doctor, he studied his profession without any regular training, and
I suppose knew less of chemistry and anatomy than you, Miss Darry. Annie Bray is as much a
lady, in her childish way, as Miss Merton; only she is the stone in its native soil, and Miss
Merton has been set by the jeweller."

I was irritated and had spoken warmly, but the bright smile did not leave Miss Darry's face,
as she answered,--

"Sandy, you have unmistakably the poetic temperament; but use your brush on the canvas, and
don't color every human being you see. I never could comprehend why the practical affairs of
life should not be ruled by judgment and reason,--why the mental mansion should not have every
needful arrangement for comfort, though a hundred illusions may fresco its ceilings. Every
child is charming because it is a child, as every bud is charming because it is a bud, though
it may open a poppy or a rose. I haven't a doubt but this little friend of yours will develop
some qualities of her ignorant ancestors to remove her in a few years far from your ideal of
womanhood. The rare gift of genius is as often bestowed on the child of common parentage as
on any other; but the refinement which makes a woman a congenial companion is a mingling of
birth, education, and associations, in my opinion. It seems from your own account, that poverty,
not choice, apprenticed you to Amos Bray."

Her good-nature shamed me, and her unselfish labor for my improvement touched me more deeply.
So, though we did not agree about my profession or friendship, I said no more.

CHAPTER VII.

As I have said, Miss Darry and I differed about Annie Bray. Yet her words, having the weight
of her greater knowledge of the world, and really strong, though prejudiced mind, made their
impression upon me. Instead of regarding Annie with the old brotherly interest, I looked critically
now to see if any sign of rude origin betrayed itself in look or speech. I found only the wayside
bloom and sweetness quite peculiar to herself, and many a quaint, rare fancy born of lonely
rambles in field and wood; but at fourteen, with no outward stimulus to act upon her life,
she was an undeveloped being, a child to be loved and petted, but no friend for my growing
and restless manhood.

In the evenings I worked hard, endeavoring both to improve myself intellectually and to progress
in my art. I was supplied with constant reading from the Hillside library; but I had never
been there since the evening when I had driven Miss Darry home. The impression made upon me
at that time by Mr. Lang had not been wholly pleasant. Notwithstanding his words at the forge,
I felt as though he had in some way contended for making me feel the drawbacks of my position.

One mild day in April, the Spring sun lay warm upon the earth, and the wind brought from the
woods the delicious scent of early flowers. I had worked very steadily for several days in
sole charge of the smithy; for Mr. Bray had been away to visit a sister who lived some thirty
miles off. I had handed him quite large profits that morning; so I ventured to ask for a half-holiday.
It was granted, and after dinner I went up to my room to prepare for it. I had practised in
water-colors for the last few weeks, and intended to surprise Miss Darry with a picture from
Nature as the result of the afternoon's work. So I thrust my paint-box into the pocket of my
portfolio, took a tin cup for water, and ran down stairs.

Annie was sitting on the door-step studying Gray's Botany, which at odd moments in the winter
I had attended to with her. My heart smote me for that egotistic contemplation of myself and
my prospects which had led me to neglect her.

"Come, Annie," I said, "bring your Botany into the woods. We will find plenty of wild-flowers
there, and you shall help me, besides, to paint my first picture."

The little face which had looked so dull a moment before brightened at once. She gained her
mother's permission, and was soon walking by my side.

On the slope of the hill which led to the stone house where so many of my dreams centred, we
found innumerable bloodroot and anemone blossoms, with a few buds of trailing arbutus just
blushing at their edges.

Annie had a wonderful fellowship with Nature, liking even its wildest, most uncouth forms.
The snakes, with shining skin and sinuous movement, glistening like streams of water, or lying
coiled like stagnant pools amid the rank luxuriance of grass and flowers, were as eagerly watched
by her as the most brilliant butterfly that ever fanned a blossom. She had a faculty for tracing
resemblances in the material creation, akin to that, perhaps, which causes many to see points
of likeness in faces, so that they, as it were, carry their home about with them, and see their
friends in the new costume of every land.

Childhood and genius alike look through and over the lattice-work which separates the regions
of the natural and the supernatural. She had firm faith in midnight revels in the woods, held
by those elves, fairies, and satyrs who come down to us from the dim and shaded life of earlier
ages, and whose existence she had eagerly accepted when I hinted its possibility. Her theory
of the mutability of species exceeded Darwin's; for she fancied that the vegetable world was
occasionally endowed with animal life, and that the luxuriant and often poisonous vines, which
choked by their rude embrace so many tenderer forms of life, waked up, under some unknown influence,
into the snakes, of which she felt as little fear.

As for me, I encouraged this tangle of woodland dreams across her brain, and liked to think
she dwelt apart, blind and deaf to all contamination through its simple power.

Annie was to-day, therefore, most happy that Spring was reorganizing her dreamland again; and
while I seated myself on a stone to arrange my materials, she ran to fill the tin cup with
water from the brook below. Then she helped me with my paints, and watched curiously all my
preparations. When these were completed, I said,--

"Now, Annie, prepare a little scene for me, and I will paint it."

At first she was reluctant to make the attempt; but I insisted, and she did so.

The tiny thread which fed the stream below trickled over a stone beside us, making rich with
its silver beads of moisture a cushion of moss beneath. On this Annie heaped bloodroots and
anemones, a few early violets, and one or two arbutus-sprays, and then looked up to see if
I was satisfied.

"Yes," I said, "if you will sit on that tree-stump, and leave your hand there."

She laughed merrily, pleased to be in my first painting. I drew out my paper, and rapidly sketched
the outlines. Then I took my brush; the pale spring beauties grew beneath its touch, and lay
with careless grace on the soft, damp moss.

Annie had resumed her Botany as the afternoon wore on, reaching forward occasionally to note
my progress; and her hand lay relaxed, the fingers loosely clasping the last violets laid down.

I was giving most affectionate pats of my camel's-hair to the last little pink nail, feeling
more elated at this first attempt than at many a better picture since, when I heard the tramp
of horses' feet in the road to the left of the meadow where we sat. I was too intent upon my
work to raise my eyes, and Annie sat with her face turned toward the woods, so that I thought
nothing more of it until we were startled by a voice at a little distance.

"Well, my young friend, I suppose this studio is open to visitors?"

I looked up, and saw Miss Merton and Mr. Lang.

"We were riding, and called at the forge," said Miss Merton, with a wondering glance at Annie,
whose astonishment had not admitted of a change of position; "and as Mr. Lang heard there you
were off on an excursion, we have been expecting to see you, and caught our first glimpse as
the horses walked up the hill. Won't you introduce us to your young friend, Mr. Allen?"

"This is Annie Bray, my master's daughter," I stammered, with a keen and very unpleasant remembrance
of Miss Darry's remarks.

Annie rose, and returned with natural ease Miss Merton's smile and kindly greeting, while Mr.
Lang bent over to look at my painting.

"Alice, look here. This is as pretty a bit of water-color as I've ever seen. A young girl's
hand is a gratifying possession, but I am not sure that I should have stopped with it in the
present instance." And he looked admiringly at Annie's modest beauty.

Miss Merton walked round the stump, and stood behind me.

"It is indeed pretty. Miss Annie's hand suggests the idea that these blossoms at least were
not 'born to blush unseen.' It reminds me of our object in seeking you, Mr. Allen. A friend,"
she added, with an arch look at Mr. Lang, "has been audacious enough to give me a costly picture.
I am to have a few friends to admire it to-morrow evening. I know you will enjoy it; so I want
you to come, too."

"You are very kind, but"----I hesitated.

"But what?" inquired Mr. Lang. "Speak out boldly, Sandy."

"I should not think you would care to have a poor blacksmith with your friends. Let me come
another evening."

"I am sorry, that, judging by your own feelings, you have arrived at this conclusion," answered
Mr. Lang, dryly. "I might have thought, under similar circumstances, you would have treated
us in the same way. Do as you choose, of course; but remember, blacksmith or artist, no one
will respect you, unless you so thoroughly respect yourself as to hold your manhood above your
profession, and accept every courtesy in the spirit in which it is offered."

I began to understand that he would guard me from the vanity and over-sensitiveness which were
the natural outgrowth of my position; yet I reddened at the implied weakness.

"Pray don't mind Mr. Lang's criticisms," said Miss Merton, noticing my confusion. "You certainly
do not doubt the sincerity of our invitation?"

"Not at all," I exclaimed, warmly.

"Then will you not come to-morrow evening?"

Yielding to the fascinating persuasiveness of her manner, I now consented so readily, that
Mr. Lang, laughing, asked, in the old friendly tone,--

"Did you paint this picture, Sandy, for any special purpose?"

"Only that I might show it to Miss Darry."

"Ah, well, let us take it to her. I have another use for it besides. Are there any further
touches to be given it?"

I looked; it might have been improved by more work, but I had not the courage to undertake
it before them. So I said I thought it would do.

He lingered a moment, while Miss Merton spoke a few words to Annie, who only waited until they
reached the stile to express warmly her admiration of the lovely lady, who had invited her
also to come some day to Hillside, to see the air-plants in her conservatory.

CHAPTER VIII.

When I descended from my room to the kitchen, the next evening, arrayed for my visit, with
all the elegance of which my simple wardrobe admitted, Mrs. Bray exclaimed,--

"Well, Sandy, I protest, you do look smart! But don't be set up, 'cause you keep high company.
I s'pose, knowin Amos was a family man, and couldn't go visitin' round, they took a notion to you."

Annie followed me to the door, saying,--

"You must remember to tell me about the picture, Sandy, and what they say of yours; and do
look at the plants Miss Merton promised to show me, and see just how she looks herself."

"And anything more?" I asked, laughing.

"Yes,--what they say to you. You look as handsome to-night, Sandy, as the tall gentleman with
Miss Merton,--only such a very different handsome!"

"Then you admired his appearance?" I asked, lingering. "I fancied you were too busy looking
at Miss Merton to think of him."

But Annie continued to unfold her opinion without noticing my remark.

"I should be afraid he wouldn't care for me, if I didn't look and act just as he wanted me
to. I don't like his way of being handsome, Sandy, so well as yours."

Unconsciously, Annie was making her first experiment in analysis; and as I did not quite relish
the basis upon which my beauty rested, I bade her good-night, and hurried away.

I knew I was not handsome, yet Annie's naïve admiration undoubtedly braced me to face the evening.
In my gray eye there was nothing of the soft, dreamy expression usually supposed to accompany
the æsthetic temperament. On the contrary, it had the earnest, scrutinizing glance peculiar
to a more restless intellect than mine. The intent gaze of some ancestor, perhaps, looked out
from these "windows of my soul." If so, and his spirit was occasionally permitted to view the
world through me, the "fancy gardening" in which I so extensively indulged could scarcely have
been congenial to his tastes. The eye was the salient point, however, of a countenance not
otherwise noticeable, except from a girlish habit I had of coloring whenever I was suddenly
addressed.

When I reached Hillside, I rang the bell with some trepidation, which was increased by the
announcement of the servant that the ladies were at the tea-table. This trifling annoyance
of presenting myself at the tea-hour, when expected to pass the evening, was sufficiently serious
to my awkwardness to threaten my enjoyment of the visit; but I had scarcely seated myself in
the library when Miss Darry appeared.

"I hoped you would be in doubt as to the hour of coming, Sandy, and get here early," she said,
smiling brightly. "You must let me thank you for painting that picture for me to look at; I
even admired the little white hand of your plebeian friend, it was so charmingly done."

I could not be annoyed at this mingling of praise and badinage, especially when she relieved
me from all sense of intrusion. Moreover, she looked so brilliant, so sparkling and happy,
that I watched her, amazed at the metamorphosis from her ordinarily calm, intellectual conversation
and plain appearance.

"I thought perhaps you would keep the picture to please me, Miss Darry," I faltered, feeling
that I was presenting it to an entirely new character.

She accepted it, however, most graciously, and led me into the conservatory, that I might assist
her in arranging some baskets of flowers for the parlor-tables.

"I never did believe in conservatories," she exclaimed, as I expressed my admiration of the
many rare plants. "It is as unnatural a life for flowers to be crowded together, each in its
little pot of earth, as for human beings in their separate beds in a hospital. The idea of
shutting up plants and pictures in a room by themselves, to be visited on state occasions,
or when some member of the family in a vagrant mood chances unexpectedly among them, seems
to me preposterous."

Meanwhile she ran in and out among the flower-stands, breaking off branches of flame-colored
azalea, creamy, voluptuous-looking callas, and a variety of drooping blossoms and sprays of
green, with a reckless handling of their proud beauty, which I involuntarily contrasted with
Annie Bray's timid, half-caressing touch of the wild-flowers.

The umber-colored silk she wore toned down what I, who fancied the delicate sea-shell hue of
blondes, should have termed her rather strong colors; and now, bent on my enjoyment rather
than improvement, she looked much younger, and certainly far handsomer, than I had supposed
she could. Her entire self-possession, the familiarity with which she approached human beings,
Nature, and Art, were to me so many indications of her power, and because of my own awe in
the presence of any revelation of beauty or intellect, seemed the more wonderful. In admiration
of her ease, I became at ease myself, and was thoroughly enjoying her gay mood, which puzzled
while it charmed me, when the glass door opening into the drawing-room was pushed aside, and
Mr. Lang entered.

"Good evening, Sandy. Alice and Mr. Leopold have been inquiring for you, Miss Darry; but don't
run away with those baskets so quickly. I want a few blossoms for Alice's hair. Yours is gorgeous,
tropical. Sandy's here has as much of a wild-wood appearance as exotics will admit of. One
would think Nature was in league with Darley in making these ferns; they are outlines merely;
but this rich red japonica in the centre, on its cushion of white flowers, shows you a genuine
colorist, Sandy."

Miss Darry, making some gay reply, gave me a basket, which, designedly or not, made me less
awkwardly conscious of my hands, and we entered the drawing-room. Unaccustomed to gayeties
of any kind, I was quite dazzled by the sudden and brilliant blaze of light, the few guests
already assembled, and by Miss Merton's beauty enveloped in soft floating folds of gossamer,
looking as though the mist itself had woven her a garment. No time, however, was given in which
I could relapse into self-consciousness. Miss Darry occupied me with various statuettes and
engravings, until Mr. Lang rejoined us, accompanied by a gentleman whom he introduced to me
as Mr. Leopold, the painter of the picture which I was to see in the course of the evening.
Although my reading had necessarily been limited, Miss Darry's persistent training, and my
own voracious appetite for information in everything relating to the arts, had given me a somewhat
superficial knowledge of the pictures, style, and personal appearance of the best old and modern
painters. In spite of some obstinate facts tending to a different conclusion, I had imbibed
the conventional idea of a genius, that he must dwell in an etherealized body,--and Mr. Leopold's
stalwart frame, full, florid face, and well-rounded features were a surprise and disappointment.
I expected the Raphaelesque,--tender grace and melancholy; but about these frank blue eyes
and full red lips lurked the good-nature of a healthy school-boy, the quaint, unchecked humor
of a man upon whose life had fallen the sunshine of prosperity.

"So, you are the young man, Mr. Allen, who painted the Spring Flowers and the Maiden's Hand,"
he said, in a full, rich voice, and with a genial smile. "It is evident, you, too, are in your
spring-time, while I, near my autumn, can afford to refer to the peculiarities of that period.
I cannot regret that you have a life of struggle before you; for it is not merely the pleasing
fancy which paints fine pictures. You would have let a sunbeam play over that little hand,
had you possessed the technical knowledge to manage it: now, wouldn't you?"

I crimsoned, assenting as though to a crime.

"Effects of sunlight on bright colors are sometimes very striking," he continued. "A crimson
flower wet with dew and nodding in sunshine is a kind of tremulous rainbow, which a man might
well like to copy. We must make a compact to help each other, Mr. Allen, I want to study human
nature, and would like an introduction to all the oddities of the village."

I promised to make him acquainted with them, wondering meanwhile that he craved for his culture
what I regarded as the chief obstacle to mine.

"You shall meet Sandy at the forge some day, when work is over, and visit the villagers," said
Mr. Lang. "Miss Darry, shall you or I take Mr. Allen to see the picture? He may like a longer
inspection of it than some of us."

