)

The following is all the information which I have been able to collect respecting the present
possessor of the title of Fairfax of Cameron, in answer to the third Query of W. H. M. It gives
me pleasure to communicate it.

The Lords Fairfax have been for several generations natives of the United States. The present
possessor of the title is not so called, but is known as Mr. Fairfax. He resides at present
in Suter County, California. His Christian names are George William.

The gentleman who bore the title at the commencement of the present century, was a zealous
member of the republican (now called democratic) party.

The Fairfax family, at one time, owned all that portion of Virginia called the Northern Neck,
lying between the Potomac and Rappahannock rivers.

So much for the third Query. I beg leave to add a few remarks suggested by the fifth.

The citizens of the United States are not called subjects of the United States, and for the
same reason that your excellent Queen is not called a subject of Great Britain. Native citizens
take no oath of citizenship, expressly or impliedly, whatever the latter word may mean. Foreigners,
who become naturalised, do not renounce allegiance to the sovereign of Great Britain more "pointedly"
than to any other sovereign. Every one renounces his allegiance to the potentate or power under
whose sway he was born: the Englishman to the King (or Queen) of Great Britain, the Chinese
to the Emperor of China, the Swiss to the republic of Switzerland, and so of others.

W. H. M. says that the existence of the peers of Scotland "is denial of the first proposition
in the constitution of" the United States. If W. H. M. will turn to this constitution, he will
find that he has confounded the Declaration of Independence with it.

Foreigners, on becoming naturalised, have to renounce their titles of nobility; but I know
of nothing to prevent a native American citizen from being called Lord, as well as Mr. or Esq.
As above mentioned, a Lord Fairfax was so called twenty-six years after our Independence; and
Lord Stirling, who was a Major-General in the American army of the Revolution, was always so
styled by his cotemporaries, and addressed by them as "My Lord" and "Your Lordship."

Some farther information upon this subject has been promised to me.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

If W. H. M. desires particular information concerning the Fairfax family in Virginia, it will
give {380} me pleasure to send him Notes from Sparks' Washington, Virginia, its History and
Antiquities, &c.; amongst which is a picture of "Greenway Court Manor House." I now give only
an extract from Washington to Sir John Sinclair (Sparks, vol. xii. pp. 327, 328.), which answers
in part W. H. M.'s third Query:

    "Within full view of Mount Vernon, separated therefrom by water only,
    is one of the most beautiful seats on the river for sale, but of
    greater magnitude than you seem to have contemplated. It is called
    Belvoir, and belonged to George Wm Fairfax; who, were he now living,
    would be Baron of Cameron, as his younger brother in this country
    (George Wm. dying without issue) at present is, though he does not take
    upon himself the title. This seat was the residence of the above-named
    gentleman before he went to England ... At present it belongs to Thomas
    Fairfax, son of Bryan Fairfax: the gentleman who will not, as I said
    before, take upon himself the title of Baron of Cameron."

T. BALCH.

Philadelphia.

I cannot but deem your correspondents W. W. and H. G. in error when they consider that the
name of Baron Fairfax ought not to be retained in the Peerage. The able heraldic editors of
the Peerages are likely to be better versed in such matters than to have perpetrated and perpetuated
so frequently the blunder; or what is to be said of Sir Bernard Burke's elevation to be a king
of arms? Not to omit the instance of the Earl of Athlone, who, though a natural-born subject
of a foreign realm, in 1795 took his seat in the House of Lords in Ireland (a case which H.
G. wants explained), we have a more recent instance in the case of the present King of Hanover,
a foreign potentate, who is Duke of Cumberland and Teviotdale by inheritance, in our peerage,
and whose coronation oath (of allegiance?) must be quite incompatible with the condition of
a subject in another state. I confess I should like to see this explained, as well as the position
of those (amongst whom, however, Lord Fairfax now ranks) who, while strictly mere subjects
and citizens of their own state, may have had conferred upon themselves, or inherit, titles
of dignity and privilege in a foreign one. We usually (as in the case of the Rothschilds, &c.)
acknowledge their highest title in address, but without any adjective or epithets to qualify
with honor, such as "honorable;" as is the case, too, with doctors of foreign universities,
whose title from courtesy we also admit, though this does not place them on a footing with
those of England. The present Duke of Wellington and the Earl Nelson inherit, I believe, titles
of dignity in foreign lands, though natural-born subjects of this realm; and there can hardly
be a doubt that Lord Fairfax inherits correctly his British barony, though, whenever he may
exercise for the first time a legal vote, he may have to exhibit proof of his being the very
heir and person qualified, merely because born and resident in a foreign state; the same as
would in such case doubtless occur with regard to the other noble persons I have referred to.

A FAIRFAX KINSMAN.

Nantcribba Hall, N.W.

The followings entry in T. Kerslake's catalogue, The Bristol Bibliographer, seems worth notice:

    "Burrough's (Jer.) Gospel Remission. True blessedness consists in
    pardon of sin, 1668, 4to., with autograph of Thos. Lord Fairfax, 1668,
    and several MS.[2] notes by him, 12s. 6d."

E. M.

Hastings.

[Footnote 2: One note may be thought to be characteristic. In the table occurs, "Many think
their sins are pardoned, because it is but little they are guilty of." The general has interlined,
"A pistol kills as well as a cannon."]

       *       *       *       *       *

"CONSILIUM DELECTORUM CARDINALIUM."

(Vol. ix., pp. 127. 252.)

I have before me a copy of this very interesting document, together with an Epistole Joannis
Sturmii de eadem re, ad Cardinales cæterosque viros ad eam Consultationem delectos, printed
at Strasburg ("ex officina Cratonis Mylii Argentoraten.") A.D. 1538. The report of the Committee
had reached Sturmius in the month of March, 1537-8; and his critique, addressed especially
to Contarini, bears the date "tertio Non. Aprilis." As it is a somewhat scarce pamphlet, two
or three extracts may not be unacceptable to the readers of "N. & Q."

    "Rara res est et præter omnium opinionem oblata occasio, pontificem
    datum orbi talem, qui jurejurando fidem suorum sibi ad patefaciendam
    veritatem astrinxerit, ut si quid secus statuatis quam religio
    desideret vobis ea culpa non pontifici præstanda videatur."--C. 2.

    "At si diligenter et cum fide agatis, vestra virtute, florentem Christi
    rempublicam conspiciamus; si negligenter et cupide, ut cujus rei adhuc
    reliquiæ nonnullæ supersunt, illæ continuo ita tollantur, simul ac
    calumniari ac male agere ceperitis, ut ne vestigia quidem ullius
    sanctitatis apud vestras quidem partes posteris nostris appareant."--C.
    4.

He then passes to other topics, where he has to deplore the little sympathy evinced by the
Cardinals for Luther and his party, e.g. on the subject of indulgences:

    "Quid de illa ratione quam poenitentibus præscribitis, nonne falsa,
    nonne perversa, nonne ad quæstum magis et ad tyrannidem quam ad vitæ
    emendationem, {381} et correctionem spectans? Et qui remedia contra hos
    morbos quærunt, eos vos ea ecclesia ejiciendos putatis, et condemnatis
    hæreseos, qui restituere pristinam puritatem religioni conantur; eos
    illam tollere, qui ceremonias purgare, eos perflegare qui auctoritatem
    ecclesiasticam recuperare atque confirmare, eos imminuere et
    labefactare clamatis."--D. 4.

CHARLES HARDWICK.

Had MR. WOODWARD'S remarks come sooner under notice, they should have received, as well deserving,
a quicker reply. It is in one sense rather annoying that he should have mistaken so widely
the publication under question, and spent so much time in confirming what few, if any, now
doubt, of the Papal origin of the Consilium Delectorum Cardinalium. (See Gibbings' Preface
to his Reprint of the Roman Index Expurgatorius, p. xx.) The title of the tract (so to speak)
commonly attributed to the same quarter, but the justice of which is questioned, is, Consilium
quorundam Episcoporum Bononiæ congregatorum, quod de ratione stabiliendæ Romanæ Ecclesiæ Julio
III. P.M. datum est. This is the Consilium to which MR. WOODWARD's attention should have been
confined; and which he will find in the same volume of Brown's Fasciculus, to which he has
referred me on the real Consilium, pp. 644-650. It appears in English also, translated by Dr.
Clagett, in Bishop Gibson's Preservative, vol. i. p. 170. edit. 8vo.; and is also included
(a point to be noticed) in the single volume published of Vergerio's Works, Tubingen, 1563.[3]

MR. WOODWARD has no doubt frequently met, in Protestant authors, with the quotation from this
supposed Bologna Council (Consilium being taken for Concilium), recommending that as little
as possible of the Scriptures should be suffered to come abroad among the vulgar, that having
proved the grand source of the present calamities. Now the very air of this passage, and of
course of many others rather less disguised, is of itself sufficient to prove that this Bologna
Council is a piece of banter; the workmanship, in fact, of Peter Paul Vergerio. Would any real
adherent of Rome so express himself? "N.& Q." (Vol. ix., p. 111.) supplies a ready answer,
in the communication from F. C. H. on the so-called Catholic Bible Society.

Would a real adherent of the Papal Church again express himself in the following unimpassioned
manner?

    "Nam Apostolorum temporibus (ut verum tibi fateamur, sed silentio opus
    est) vel aliquot annis post ipsos Apostolos, nulla vel Papatus, vel
    Cardinalatus mentio erat, nec amplissimos illos reditus Episcopatuum et
    Sacerdotiorum fuisse constat, nec templa tantis sumptibus extruebantur,
    &c.: æstimet ergo tua sanctitas quam male nobiscum ageretur, si nostro
    aliquo fato in pristinam paupertatem humilitatem et miseram illam
    servitutem ac potestatem alienam redigendi essemus!"

Again:

    "Deinde ubi Episcopi Sacerdotum palmas tantum inungunt, jube illos
    internam atque externam manum, ad hæc caput ipsum et simul totam faciem
    perungere. Nam si tantulum illud oleum sanctificandi vim habet, major
    certe olei quantitas majorem quoque sanctificandi vim obtinebit."

To be sure! Who can doubt it?

MR. WOODWARD will, I apprehend, readily agree that these sentences come from no one connected
with the Roman Church. And they are quoted in the hope that Protestants will cease to cite
this supposed Bologna Council as any valid or genuine testimony to Romish proceedings and sentiments.

NOVUS.

[Footnote 3: See an account of him in McCrie's Hist. of the Reformation in Italy, pp. 77. 115. &c.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE.

Mounting Positives.--If the print and the mounting paper, or Bristol board, are both made equally
damp, and the back of the picture covered with thin paste, they adhere without any unevenness;
and if the print is on the fine Canson's paper, the appearance is that of an India proof. They
should remain until perfectly dry in a press.

H. W. DIAMOND.

Mounting of Photographs, and Difficulties in the Wax-paper Process.--May I request a little
additional information from your correspondent SELEUCUS, Vol. ix., p. 310., respecting the
mounting of photographs? Does he mean merely the painting the edges, or the smearing of the
photograph all over its back with the Indian-rubber glue, prior to sticking the proof on the
cardboard? If the former, which I apprehend he does, SELEUCUS will necessarily have the unsightly
appearance of the picture's buckling up in the middle on the board being bent forward and backward
in different directions? May I take the liberty of asking him in what respect the plan proposed
is superior to that of painting over the edges with mucilage of gum arabic, containing a little
brown sugar to prevent its cracking, allowing it to dry, and prior to the placing it on the
card, slightly moistening it; a plan superior to that of putting it on the board at first,
as all risk of a portion of the gum oozing out at the edges is thereby avoided.

I have long been in the habit of mounting prints and photographs in a way which prevents their
buckling, keeps the paper underneath quite smooth, and in other respects is so perfect, that
it positively defies the distinguishing of the picture from the paper on which it is mounted.
I am not certain that my plan is applicable to the mounting on card-board, as it cannot be
wetted and stretched, thinking it useless to make use of such a costly material when a tolerably
thick drawing-paper will more than serve the same purpose at a very considerably less expense,
seeing that the photograph thus mounted bears a much closer resemblance {382} to that of a
good and costly print. A good plain or tinted sheet of drawing-paper, 30 inches by 22, may
be obtained at the artists' colour shops for sixpence, sufficiently large for two drawings,
9 inches by 11, allowing a sufficient margin.

After various trials, the plan I have found decidedly the best is the following:--Soak the
drawing-paper in a vessel of water for ten minutes, or until it appears by its flaccidity to
have become perfectly saturated; put it at once into an artist's stretching frame, brush over
the back of the photograph with rather thin and perfectly smooth paste, allow it a few minutes
to imbibe a portion of the moisture of the paste, and then lay it smoothly down on the damp
paper now on the stretching frame, of course carefully pressing out all air bubbles as you
gradually, beginning at one side, smooth down the pasted picture. It should remain in a dry
place (not placed before a fire) until the whole has become quite dry, about ten or twelve
hours. It may then be taken out of the frame, cut to the desired shape, and a single or double
line nicely drawn around the picture, at a distance suitable to each individual's taste, by
the help of sepia-coloured ink and a crowquill pen, both of which may also be bought at the
artists' colour shop. Should it be required to be still more nicely mounted, and to appear
to have been one and the same paper originally, the back edges of the picture should, previous
to laying on the paste, be rubbed down to a fine and knife-like edge with a piece of the finest
sand-paper placed on a wine cork, or substance of a similar size. The drawing-paper should
be of the same shade and tint as the ground of the photograph.

A novice in the wax-paper process (having heretofore worked the collodion and calotype, from
its very desirable property of keeping long good after being excited, i. e. the wax paper),
I am very desirous of getting over an unexpected difficulty in its manipulation; and if some
one of the many liberal-minded contributors to your justly wide-spread periodical, well versed
in that department of the art, would lend me a helping hand in my present difficulty, I should
feel more than obliged for the kindness thereby conferred.

My wax-paper negative, much to my disappointment, occasionally exhibits, more or less, a speckled
appearance by transmitted light, which frequently, in deep painting, impresses the positive
with an unsightly spotted character, somewhat similar to that of a bad lithograph taken from
a worn-out stone. I should wish my wax-paper negative to be similar in appearance to that of
a good calotype one, or to show by transmitted light, as my vexatious specimen does when viewed
on its right side by reflected light. As the most lucid description must fall far short of
a sight of the article itself, I purpose enclosing you a specimen of my failure, a portion
of one of the negatives in question. Would immersion, instead of floating on the gallo-nitrate
solution, remedy the evil? Or should the impressed sheet be entirely immersed in the developing
fluid in place of being floated? And if in the affirmative, of what strength should it be?
I have thus far tried both plans in vain.

HENRY H. HELE.

    [The defects described by our correspondent are so frequent with
    manipulators in the wax-paper process, and which DR. MANSELL has called
    so aptly a "gravelly appearance," that we shall be glad to receive
    communications from those of our numerous correspondents who are so
    fortunate as to avoid it.]

The New Waxed-paper, or Céroléine Process.--The following process, communicated to the French
paper Cosmos by M. Stephane Geoffroy, and copied into La Lumière, appears to possess many of
the advantages of the wax-paper, while it gets rid of those blemishes of which so many complain.
I have therefore thought it deserving the attention of English photographers, and so send a
translation of it to '"N. & Q." As I have preserved the French measures--the litre and the
gramme--I may remind those who think proper to repeat M. Geoffroy's experiments, that the former
is equal to about 2 pints and 2 ounces of our measure; and that the gramme is equal to 15.438
grains, nearly 15½.

ANON.

I send you a complete description of a method for either wet or dry paper, which has many advantages
over that of Mr. Le Gray.

I assure you it is excellent; and its results are always produced in a manner so easy, so simple,
and so certain, that I think I am doing great service to photographers in publishing it.

1st. I introduce 500 grammes of yellow or white wax into 1 litre of spirits of wine, of the
strength usually sold, in a glass retort. I boil the alcohol till the wax is completely dissolved
(first taking care to place at the end of my retort an apparatus, by means of which I can collect
all the produce of the distillation). I pour into a measure the mixture which remains in the
retort while liquid; while it is getting cool, the myricine and the cerine harden or solidify,
and the céroléine remains alone in solution in the alcohol. I separate this liquid by straining
it through fine linen; and by a last operation, I filter it through a paper in a glass funnel,
after having mixed with it the alcohol resulting the distillation. I keep in reserve this liquor
in a stopper-bottle, and make use of it as I want it, after having mixed it in the following
manner.

2nd. Next I dissolve, in 150 grammes of alcohol, of 36 degrees of strength, 20 grammes of iodide
of ammonium (or, of potassium), 1 gramme of bromide of ammonium or potassium, 1 gramme of fluoride
of potassium or ammonium.

I then pour, drop by drop, upon about 1 gramme of fresh-made iodide of silver a concentrated
solution of cyanide of potassium, only just sufficient to dissolve it.

I add this dissolved iodide of silver to the preceding mixture, and shake it up: there remains,
as a sediment at the bottom of the bottle, a considerable thickness of all the above salts,
which serve to saturate the alcohol by which I replace successively the saturated which I have
extracted by degrees in the proportions below.

3rd. Having these two bottles ready, when I wish to prepare negatives, I take about 200 grammes
of the solution No. 1. of céroléine and alcohol, with which I mix 20 grammes of the solution
No. 2.; I filter the mixture with care, to avoid the crystals which are not dissolved, which
always soil the paper; and in a porcelain tray I make a bath, into which I lay to soak for
{383} about a quarter of an hour the papers selected and cut, five or six at a time, till the
liquor is exhausted. Taken out, hung up by the corner, and dried, these papers, which have
taken a uniform rosy tint, are shut up free from dust, and kept dry. With regard to the sensitizing
by nitrate of silver, the bringing out of the image under the action of gallic acid, and fixing
the proof by hyposulphite of soda, I follow the usual methods, most frequently that of Mr. Le Gray.

I add only, if I have any dissolved, 1 or 2 grammes of camphorated spirits to 1 litre of the
solution of gallic acid.

Allow me, Sir, to say a few words on the great advantages I have always remarked in preparing
my negatives by this method.

All those who use papers waxed by Mr. Le Gray's process, know how many, how tedious, and how
difficult are the operations before the sensitizing by nitrate of silver. They know too how
much care is necessary to obtain papers uniformly prepared and without spots, in the midst
of such long operations, in which there are so many opportunities for accidents. In fact, one
must be always upon one's guard against the impurities of the wax obtained from the shop; against
the dust during the impregnation of the paper; and, while using the iron, against the over-heating
of the latter, and against the bad quality of the paper used to blot.

Photographers know also how much wax they lose by this process, and how much it costs for the
quantities of paper necessary to dry it properly. They know likewise how difficult and tedious
it is to soak a waxed paper which has been previously in a watery solution. On the contrary,
by the method I have described, the iodizing and the waxing is done by one single, simple,
and rapid process; the saturation is, as may be conceived, very uniform, and very complete,
thanks to the power of penetration possessed by the alcohol; and that marbled appearance of
the ordinary waxed proofs, which is so annoying, cannot be produced by this method, thanks
to the character of the céroléine: this body is, in fact, of a remarkable elasticity.

The solution of céroléine in the alcohol is more easy to prepare, and comparatively costs little;
and the remains of stearine and of myricine can either be sold again, or, in any case, may
be used to wax fixed proofs.

The solution of which I have given you the formula, is photogenic to a very high degree; in
fact, used with papers, either thin or stout, it gives, after the first bath of gallic acid,
blacks of an intensity truly remarkable; which it is impossible to obtain to the same degree
with Le Gray's paper, and which other papers scarcely take after having been done a second
time with the acetic acid, or the bichloride of mercury. At the same time, it preserves the
lights and the half-tones in a way that surprises me upon each new trial (I have not yet been
able to obtain one clear proof by gallic acid, with the addition of nitrate of silver). The
transparency of the proofs is always admirable, and the clearness of the object yields in nothing
to that of the proofs obtained by albumen.

The paper, prepared in the manner I have described, is also very quick as compared with Le
Gray's paper--at least one fourth quicker; and preserves its perfect sensitiveness in the same
proportion of time, three days in twelve. Thus, it is at the same time quicker and less variable.
This comparative rapidity may be very well understood, by remembering that the céroléine is
an element much softer than its compound; and possesses a photogenic aptness which is peculiar
to itself, which science will, no doubt, soon explain.

To succeed in the preparation of the céroléine, it is important to work with wax of the best
quality; this is not easy in Paris, where they sell, under the name of wax, a resinous matter
which is only wax in appearance. It will be well to observe, with the greatest care, the smell
and the look of a fresh cut.

    [This article reached us after our preceding note was in type. We shall
    be glad to hear from any correspondents who have tried this process how
    far they find it to be one deserving of attention.]

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies to Minor Queries.

Origin of Clubs (Vol. ix., p. 327.).--Johnson's definition of club, as "an assembly of good
fellows, meeting under certain conditions," will apply to a meeting held two centuries earlier
than that established by Sir Walter Raleigh at the Mermaid, in Friday Street. In the works
of the former are two ballads, written about 1413, one a congratulation from the brethren to
Henry Somer, on his appointment as Sub-Treasurer of the Exchequer; and the other a reminder
to the same person, that the "styward" had warned him that he was--

 "  .    .    .    .  for the dyner arraye
  Ageyn Thirsday next, and nat it delaye."

That there were certain conditions to be observed by this Society, appears from the latter
epistle, which commences with an answer to a letter of remonstrance the "Court" has received
from Henry Somer against some undue extravagance, and a breach of their rules. They were evidently
a jovial company; and such a history as could be collected of these Societies would be both
interesting and curious. We have proof that Henry Somer received Chaucer's pension for him.

EDWARD FOSS.

Dr. Whichcote and Dorothy Jordan (Vol. ix., p. 351.).--The sentence which Mr. Leigh Hunt couples
with Mrs. Jordan's laugh, as among the best sermons he ever heard, your correspondent [Greek:
Xanthos] will find in the collection of Moral and Religious Aphorisms of Dr. Whichcote, first
published by Dr. Jeffery in 1703, and which were re-published by Dr. Salter in 1753. It is
to the following effect:

    "Aph. 1060. To lessen the number of things lawful in themselves;
    brings the consciences of men in[to] slavery, multiplies sin in the
    world, makes the way {384} narrower than God has made it, occasions
    differences among men, discourages comers to religion, rebuilds the
    partition wall, is an usurpation upon the family of God, challenges
    successive ages backward and forward, assigns new boundaries in the
    world, takes away the opportunity of free-will offerings."

It is possible that Mr. Leigh Hunt may have found it in the little Manual of Golden Sentences,
published by the Rev. John Hunter, Bath, 1826, 12mo., where it occurs at p. 64., No. xlvi.

With respect to Dorothy Jordan's laugh, to those of your readers who, like myself, have heard
it, and treasure it among their joyous remembrances, no comment will be wanting.

S. W. SINGER.

"Paid down upon the Nail" (Vol. ix., p. 196.).--Your correspondent ABHBA mentions Limerick,
on the authority of O'Keefe the dramatist, as the place where this saying originated; from
the fact of a pillar, with a circular plate of copper upon it, having stood in a piazza under
the Exchange in this ancient city: which pillar was called "the nail." Permit me to remark,
Bristol also claims the origin of this saying: vide the following paragraph in No. 1. p. 4.
of the Curiosities of Bristol, published last September:

    "We have heard it stated that this phrase first originated in Bristol,
    when it was common for the merchants to buy and sell at the bronze
    pillars (four) in front of the Exchange--the pillars being commonly
    called Nails."

I should infer that, from the fact of Bristol having been at the time of the erection of these
pillars (some centuries ago) by far the most important place in the British empire (London
only excepted), it is more likely to have originated this commercial saying than Limerick.

BRISTOLIENSIS.

"Man proposes, but God disposes" (Vol. ix., pp. 87. 202.).--I regret that I am unable to afford
MR. THOMAS any information respecting the Abbot Gerson, to whom the authorship of the De Imitatione
has been attributed, beyond what is contained in the preface to the edition which I before
quoted. The authority there cited is a dissertation, entitled Mémoire sur le véritable auteur
de l'Imitation de Jésus-Christ, par G. de Gregory, Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur, etc.,
Paris, 1827. The contents of this work are thus described in that preface:

    "Eques de Gregory argumentis tum externis, tum internis demonstrat:--1.
    Libellum--primitus tractatum fuisse ethicæ scholasticum, a magistro
    novitiorum elaboratum. 2. Eundem, tempore inter annum 1220 et 1240
    interjecto, suppresso nomine conscriptum esse a Joanne Gerson, monacho
    Benedictino, antea in Athenæo Vercellensi professore, postea ibidem
    monasterii S. Stephani abbate. Denique specialibus argumentis eos
    refellit, qui vel Joanni Gersoni, cancellario academiæ Parisiensi, vel
    Thomæ Kempensi hunc librum attribuendum esse contendunt."

I have been informed that an interesting article upon the question of the authorship has recently
appeared in a very recent number of a Roman Catholic Review; I believe Brownson's American
Quarterly.

H. P.

Lincoln's Inn.

H. P. wishes for some other quotations from De Imitatione Christi, in order to test the claims
to originality of that extraordinary work; I therefore now supply another--"Of two evils we
ought always to choose the least,"--because I strongly suspect that it is even some centuries
older than the time of the author, Thomas à Kempis. It will be found in b. III. ch. xii. of
the English translation.

A. B. C.

Roman Catholic Patriarchs (Vol. viii., p. 317.).--The following, with the signature W. FRASER,
appeared in "N. & Q.":

    "Has any bishop of the Western Church held the title of patriarch,
    besides the Patriarch of Venice? And what peculiar authority or
    privileges has he?"

The Archbishop of Lisbon has the title of Patriarch of the Indies; but it does not appear that
he has any defined jurisdiction, being only an inferior patriarch, and with a title little
more than honorary. His grand vicars, however, are archbishops; and his seal has, like those
of other patriarchs, the tiara encircled with two crowns only. This patriarchate was created
by Pope Clement XI., by his constitution In supremo Apostolatus. Afterwards, in the year 1720,
the same Pope conferred upon the Patriarch of Lisbon the exclusive right of anointing the Kings
of Portugal at their coronation on the right arm, which had previously been the privilege of
the Archbishop of Braga.

F. C. H.

The primate of Portugal has the style of "patriarch," but I do not know of any privileges or
authority that he has beyond those appertaining to the rank of archbishop or cardinal, when
he happens to be one, as at present.

J. S. WARDEN.

