Co. CHICAGO

- - - - -

THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES

The origin of species is a natural phenomenon. LAMARCK

The origin of species is an object of inquiry. DARWIN

The origin of species is an object of experimental investigation. DeVRIES.

- - - - -

PREFACE BY THE AUTHOR

THE purpose of these lectures is to point out the means and methods by which the origin of
species and varieties may become an object for experimental inquiry, in the interest of agricultural
and horticultural practice as well as in that of general biologic science. Comparative studies
have contributed all the evidence hitherto adduced for the support of the Darwinian theory
of descent and given us some general ideas about the main lines of the pedigree of the vegetable
kingdom, but the way in which one species originates from another has not been adequately explained.
The current belief assumes that species are slowly changed into new types. In contradiction
to this conception the theory of mutation assumes that new species and varieties are produced
from existing forms by sudden leaps. The parent-type itself remains unchanged throughout this
process, and may repeatedly give birth to new forms. These may arise simultaneously and in
groups or separately at more or less widely distant periods.

The principal features of the theory of mutation have been dealt with at length in my book
"Die Mutationstheorie" (Vol. I., 1901, Vol. II., 1903. Leipsic, Veit & Co.), in which I have
endeavored to present as completely as possible the detailed evidence obtained from trustworthy
historical records, and from my own experimental researches, upon which the theory is based.

The University of California invited me to deliver a series of lectures on this subject, at
Berkeley, during the [vii] summer of 1904, and these lectures are offered in this form to a
public now thoroughly interested in the progress of modern ideas on evolution. Some of my experiments
and pedigree-cultures are described here in a manner similar to that used in the "Mutationstheorie,"
but partly abridged and partly elaborated, in order to give a clear conception of their extent
and scope. New experiments and observations have been added, and a wider choice of the material
afforded by the more recent current literature has been made in the interest of a clear representation
of the leading ideas, leaving the exact and detailed proofs thereof to the students of the
larger book.

Scientific demonstration is often long and encumbered with difficult points of minor importance.
In these lectures I have tried to devote attention to the more important phases of the subject
and have avoided the details of lesser interest to the general reader.

Considerable care has been bestowed upon the indication of the lacunae in our knowledge of
the subject and the methods by which they may be filled. Many interesting observations bearing
upon the little known parts of the subject may be made with limited facilities, either in the
garden or upon the wild flora. Accuracy and perseverance, and a warm love for Nature's children
are here the chief requirements in such investigations.

In his admirable treatise on Evolution and Adaptation (New York, Macmillan & Co., 1903), Thomas
Hunt Morgan has dealt in a critical manner with many of the speculations upon problems subsidiary
to the theory of descent, in so convincing and complete a manner, that I think myself justified
in neglecting these questions here. His book gives an accurate survey of them all, and is easily
understood by the general reader.

In concluding I have to offer my thanks to Dr. D.T. MacDougal and Miss A.M. Vail of the New
York Botanical Garden for their painstaking work in the preparation of the manuscript for the
press. Dr. MacDougal, by [viii] his publications, has introduced my results to his American
colleagues, and moreover by his cultures of the mutative species of the great evening-primrose
has contributed additional proof of the validity of my views, which will go far to obviate
the difficulties, which are still in the way of a more universal acceptation of the theory
of mutation. My work claims to be in full accord with the principles laid down by Darwin, and
to give a thorough and sharp analysis of some of the ideas of variability, inheritance, selection,
and mutation, which were necessarily vague at his time. It is only just to state, that Darwin
established so broad a basis for scientific research upon these subjects, that after half a
century many problems of major interest remain to be taken up. The work now demanding our attention
is manifestly that of the experimental observation and control of the origin of species. The
principal object of these lectures is to secure a more general appreciation of this kind of work.

HUGO DE VRIES. Amsterdam, October, 1904.

[ix]

PREFACE BY THE EDITOR

PROFESSOR DE VRIES has rendered an additional service to all naturalists by the preparation
of the lectures on mutation published in the present volume. A perusal of the lectures will
show that the subject matter of "Die Mutationstheorie" has been presented in a somewhat condensed
form, and that the time which has elapsed since the original was prepared has given opportunity
for the acquisition of additional facts, and a re-examination of some of the more important
conclusions with the result that a notable gain has been made in the treatment of some complicated
problems.

It is hoped that the appearance of this English version of the theory of mutation will do much
to stimulate investigation of the various phases of the subject. This volume, however, is by
no means intended to replace, as a work of reference, the larger book with its detailed recital
of facts and its comprehensive records, but it may prove a substitute for the use of the general
reader.

The revision of the lectures has been a task attended with no little pleasure, especially since
it has given the editor the opportunity for an advance consideration of some of the more recent
results, thus materially facilitating investigations which have been in progress at the New
York Botanical Garden for some time. So far as the ground has been covered the researches in
question corroborate the conclusions of de Vries in all important particulars. The preparation
of the manuscript for the printer has consisted chiefly in the adaptation of oral [xii] discussions
and demonstrations to a form suitable for permanent record, together with certain other alterations
which have been duly submitted to the author. The original phraseology has been preserved as
far as possible. The editor wishes to acknowledge material assistance in this work from Miss
A.M. Vail, Librarian of the New York Botanical Garden.

D.T. MacDougal. New York Botanical Garden, October, 1904.

PREFACE TO THE SECOND EDITION.

THE constantly increasing interest in all phases of evolution has made necessary the preparation
of a second edition of this book within a few months after the first appeared. The opportunity
has been used to eliminate typographical errors, and to make alterations in the form of a few
sentences for the sake of clearness and smoothness. The subject matter remains practically
unchanged. An explanatory note has been added on page 575 in order to avoid confusion as to
the identity of some of the plants which figure prominently in the experimental investigations
in Amsterdam and New York.

The portrait which forms the frontispiece is a reproduction of a photograph taken by Professor
F.E. Lloyd and Dr. W.A. Cannon during the visit of Professor de Vries at the Desert Botanical
Laboratory of the Carnegie Institution, at Tucson, Arizona, in June, 1904.

D. T. MACDOUGAL. December 15, 1905.

CONTENTS

A. INTRODUCTION.

LECTURE                                                            PAGE

I. Descent: theories of evolution and methods of investigation.       1
     The theory of descent and of natural selection. Evolution and
adaptation. Elementary species and varieties. Methods of scientific
pedigree-culture.

B. ELEMENTARY SPECIES.

II. Elementary species in nature.                                    32
     Viola tricolor, Draba verna, Primula acaulis, and other
examples. Euphorbia pecacuanha. Prunus maritima. Taraxacum and
Hieracium.

III. Elementary species of cultivated plants.                        63
     Beets, apples, pears, clover, flax and coconut.

IV. Selection of elementary species.                                 92
     Cereals. Le Couteur. Running out of varieties. Rimpau and
Risler, Avena fatua. Meadows. Old Egyptian cereals. Selection by the
Romans. Shirreff. Hays.

C. RETROGRADE VARIETIES.

V. Characters of retrograde varieties.                              121
     Seed varieties of pure, not hybrid origin. Differences from
elementary species. Latent characters. Ray-florets of composites.
[xiii] Progressive red varieties. Apparent losses. Xanthium
canadense. Correlative variability. Laciniate leaves and petals.
Compound characters.

VI. Stability and real atavism.                                     154
     Constancy of retrograde varieties. Atavism in Ribes sanguineum
Albidum, in conifers, in Iris pallida. Seedlings of Acacia.
Reversion by buds.

VII. Ordinary or false atavism.                                     185
     Vicinism or variation under the influence of pollination by
neighboring individuals. Vicinism in nurseries. Purifying new and
old varieties. A case of running out of corn in Germany.

VIII. Latent characters.                                            216
     Leaves of seedlings, adventitious buds, systematic latency and
retrogressive evolution. Degressive evolution. Latency of specific
and varietal characters in wheat-ear carnation, in the green dahlias,
in white campanulas and others. Systematic latency of flower colors.

IX. Crossing of species and varieties.                              247
     Balanced and unbalanced, or species and variety crosses.
Constant hybrids of Oenothera muricata and O. biennis. Aegilops,
Medicago, brambles and other instances.

X. Mendel's law of balanced crosses.                                276
     Pairs of antagonistic characters, one active and one latent.
Papaver somniferum. [xiv] Mephisto Danebrog. Mendel's laws. Unit-
characters.

D. EVERSPORTING VARIETIES.

XI. Striped flowers.                                                309
     Antirrhinum majus luteum rubro-striatum with pedigree. Striped
flowers, fruits and radishes. Double stocks.

XII. "Five leaved" clover.                                          340
     Origin of this variety. Periodicity of the anomaly. Pedigree-
cultures. Ascidia.

XIII. Polycephalic poppies.                                         369
     Permanency and high variability. Sensitive period of the
anomaly. Dependency on external conditions.

XIV. Monstrosities.                                                 400
     Inheritance of monstrosities. Half races and middle races.
Hereditary value of atavists. Twisted stems and fasciations. Middle
races of tricotyls and syncotyls. Selection by the hereditary
percentage among the offspring.

XV. Double adaptations.                                             430
     Analogy between double adaptations and anomalous middle races.
Polygonum amphibium. Alpine plants. Othonna crassifolia. Leaves
in sunshine and shadow. Giants and dwarfs. Figs and ivy. Leaves of
seedlings.

E. MUTATIONS.

XVI. Origin of the peloric toad-flax.                               459
     Sudden and frequent origin in the wild state. Origin in the
experiment-garden. Law of repeated mutations. Probable origin of
other pelories.

[xv]
XVII.  The production of double flowers.                            488
     Sudden appearance of double flowers in horticulture. Historical
evidence. Experimental origin of Chrysanthemum segetum plenum.
Dependency upon nourishment. Petalody of stamens.

XVIII New species of Oenothera.                                   516
     Mutations of Oenothera lamarckiana in the wild state near
Hilversum. New varieties of O. laevifolia, O. brevistylis, and
O. nanella. New elementary species, O. gigas, O. rubrinervis,
albida, and oblonga. O. lata, a pistillate form.
Inconstancy of O. scintillans.

XIX. Experimental pedigree-cultures.                                547
     Pedigree of the mutative products of Oenothera lamarckiana in
the Botanical Garden at Amsterdam. Laws of mutability. Sudden and
repeated leaps from an unchanging main strain. Constancy of the new
forms. Mutations in all directions.

XX. Origin of wild species and varieties.                           576
     Problems to solve. Capsella heegeri. Oenothera biennis cruciata.
Epilobium hirsutum cruciatum. Hibiscus Moscheutos. Purple beech.
Monophyllous strawberries. Chances of success with new mutations.

XXI. Mutations in horticulture.                                     604
     Chelidonium majus lacinatum. Dwarf and spineless varieties.
Laciniate leaves. Monophyllous and broom-like varieties. [xvi] Purple
leaves. Celosia. Italian poplar. Cactus dahlia. Mutative origin of
Dahlia fistulosa, and Geranium praetense in the experiment-garden.

XXII. Systematic atavism.                                           630 Reappearance of ancestral
characters. Primula acaulis umbellata. Bracts of crucifers. Zea Mays cryptosperma. Equisetum,
Dipsacus sylvestris torsus. Tomatoes.

XXIII. Taxonomic anomalies.                                         658
     Specific characters occurring in other cases as casual
anomalies. Papaver bracteatum monopetalum. Desmodium gyrans and
monophyllous varieties. Peltate leaves and ascidia. Flowers on
leaves. Leaves. Hordeum trifurcatum.

XXIV. Hypothesis of periodical mutations.                           686
     Discovering mutable strains. Periods of mutability and constancy.
Periods of mutations. Genealogical trees. Limited life-time of the
organic kingdom.

F. FLUCTUATIONS.

XXV. General laws of fluctuations.                                  715
     Fluctuating variability. Quetelet's law. Individual and partial
fluctuations. Linear variability. Influence of nutrition.
Periodicity curves.

XXVI. Asexual multiplication of extremes.                           742
     Selection between species and intra-specific selection.
Excluding individual [xvii] embryonic variability. Sugar-canes.
Flowering cannas. Double lilacs. Other instances. Burbank's method
of selection.

XXVII. Inconstancy of improved races                                770
     Larger variability in the case of propagation by seed,
progression and regression after a single selection, and after
repeated selections. Selection experiments with corn. Advantages
and effect of repeated selection.

XXVIII. Artificial and natural selection.                           798
     Conclusions. Specific and intra-specific selection. Natural
selection in the field. Acclimatization. Improvement-selection of
sugar-beets by various methods. Rye. Hereditary percentage and
centgener power as marks by which intraspecific selection may be
guided.

Index                                                               827

[1] A. INTRODUCTION

LECTURE I

DESCENT: THEORIES OF EVOLUTION AND METHODS OF INVESTIGATION

Newton convinced his contemporaries that natural laws rule the whole universe. Lyell showed,
by his principle of slow and gradual evolution, that natural laws have reigned since the beginning
of time. To Darwin we owe the almost universal acceptance of the theory of descent.

This doctrine is one of the most noted landmarks in the advance of science. It teaches the
validity of natural laws of life in its broadest sense, and crowns the philosophy founded by
Newton and Lyell.

Lamarck proposed the hypothesis of a common origin of all living beings and this ingenious
and thoroughly philosophical conception was warmly welcomed by his partisans, but was not widely
accepted owing to lack of supporting evidence. To Darwin was reserved the task of [2] bringing
the theory of common descent to its present high rank in scientific and social philosophy.

Two main features in his work have contributed to this early and unexpected victory. One of
them is the almost unlimited amount of comparative evidence, the other is his demonstration
of the possibility of a physiological explanation of the process of descent itself.

The universal belief in the independent creation of living organisms was revised by Linnaeus
and was put upon a new foundation. Before him the genera were supposed to be created, the species
and minor forms having arisen from them through the agency of external conditions. In his first
book Linnaeus adhered to this belief, but later changed his mind and maintained the principle
of the separate creation of species. The weight of his authority soon brought this conception
to universal acceptance, and up to the present time the prevailing conception of a species
has been chiefly based on the definition given by Linnaeus. His species comprised subspecies
and varieties, which were in their turn, supposed to have evolved from species by the common
method.

Darwin tried to show that the links which bind species to genera are of the same nature as
those which determine the relationship of [3] subspecies and varieties. If an origin by natural
laws is conceded for the latter, it must on this ground be granted for the first also. In this
discussion he simply returned to the pre-Linnean attitude. But his material was such as to
allow him to go one step further, and this step was an important and decisive one. He showed
that the relation between the various genera of a family does not exhibit any features of a
nature other than that between the species of a genus. What has been conceded for the one must
needs be accepted for the other. The same holds good for the large groups.

The conviction of the common origin of closely allied forms necessarily leads to the conception
of a similar descent even in remote relationships.

The origin of subspecies and varieties as found in nature was not proved, but only generally
recognized as evident. A broader knowledge has brought about the same state of opinion for
greater groups of relationships. Systematic affinities find their one possible explanation
by the aid of this principle; without it, all similarity is only apparent and accidental. Geographic
and paleontologic facts, brought together by Darwin and others on a previously unequalled scale,
point clearly in the same direction. The vast amount of evidence of all [4] comparative sciences
compels us to accept the idea. To deny it, is to give up all opportunity of conceiving Nature
in her true form.

The general features of the theory of descent are now accepted as the basis of all biological
science. Half a century of discussion and investigation has cleared up the minor points and
brought out an abundance of facts; but they have not changed the principle. Descent with modification
is now universally accepted as the chief law of nature in the organic world. In honor of him,
who with unsurpassed genius, and by unlimited labor has made it the basis of modern thought,
this law is called the "Darwinian theory of descent."

Darwin's second contribution to this attainment was his proof of the possibility of a physiological
explanation of the process of descent itself. Of this possibility he fully convinced his contemporaries,
but in indicating the particular means by which the change of species has been brought about,
he has not succeeded in securing universal acceptation. Quite on the contrary, objections have
been raised from the very outset, and with such force as to compel Darwin himself to change
his views in his later writings. This however, was of no avail, and objections and criticisms
have since steadily accumulated. Physiologic facts concerning the origin of [5] species in
nature were unknown in the time of Darwin. It was a happy idea to choose the experience of
the breeders in the production of new varieties, as a basis on which to build an explanation
of the processes of nature. In my opinion Darwin was quite right, and he has succeeded in giving
the desired proof. But the basis was a frail one, and would not stand too close an examination.
Of this Darwin was always well aware. He has been prudent to the utmost, leaving many points
undecided, and among them especially the range of validity of his several arguments. Unfortunately
this prudence has not been adopted by his followers. Without sufficient warrant they have laid
stress on one phase of the problem, quite overlooking the others. Wallace has even gone so
far in his zeal and ardent veneration for Darwin, as to describe as Darwinism some things,
which in my opinion, had never been a part of Darwin's conceptions.

The experience of the breeders was quite inadequate to the use which Darwin made of it. It
was neither scientific, nor critically accurate. Laws of variation were barely conjectured;
the different types of variability were only imperfectly distinguished. The breeders' conception
was fairly sufficient for practical purposes, but science needed a clear understanding of the
[6] factors in the general process of variation. Repeatedly Darwin tried to formulate these
causes, but the evidence available did not meet his requirements.

Quetelet's law of variation had not yet been published. Mendel's claim of hereditary units
for the explanation of certain laws of hybrids discovered by him, was not yet made. The clear
distinction between spontaneous and sudden changes, as compared with the ever-present fluctuating
variations, is only of late coming into recognition by agriculturists. Innumerable minor points
which go to elucidate the breeders' experience, and with which we are now quite familiar, were
unknown in Darwin's time. No wonder that he made mistakes, and laid stress on modes of descent,
which have since been proved to be of minor importance or even of doubtful validity.

Notwithstanding all these apparently unsurmountable difficulties, Darwin discovered the great
principle which rules the evolution of organisms. It is the principle of natural selection.
It is the sifting out of all organisms of minor worth through the struggle for life. It is
only a sieve, and not a force of nature, not a direct cause of improvement, as many of Darwin's
adversaries, and unfortunately many of his followers also, have so often asserted.

It is [7] only a sieve, which decides what is to live, and what is to die. But evolutionary
lines are of great length, and the evolution of a flower, or of an insectivorous plant is a
way with many sidepaths. It is the sieve that keeps evolution on the main line, killing all,
or nearly all that try to go in other directions. By this means natural selection is the one
directing cause of the broad lines of evolution.

Of course, with the single steps of evolution it has nothing to do. Only after the step has
been taken, the sieve acts, eliminating the unfit. The problem, as to the manner in which the
individual steps are brought about, is quite another side of the question.

On this point Darwin has recognized two possibilities. One means of change lies in the sudden
and spontaneous production of new forms from the old stock. The other method is the gradual
accumulation of those always present and ever fluctuating variations which are indicated by
the common assertion that no two individuals of a given race are exactly alike. The first changes
are what we now call "mutations," the second are designated as "individual variations," or
as this term is often used in another sense, as "fluctuations." Darwin recognized both lines
of evolution; Wallace disregarded the sudden changes and proposed fluctuations [8] as the exclusive
factor. Of late, however, this point of view has been abandoned by many investigators, especially
in America.

The actual occurrence of mutations is recognized, and the battle rages about the question,
as to whether they are be regarded as the principal means of evolution, or whether slow and
gradual changes have not also played a large and important part.

The defenders of the theory of evolution by slow accumulation of slight fluctuations are divided
into two camps. One group is called the Neo-Lamarckians; they assume a direct modifying agency
of the environment, producing a corresponding and useful change in the organization. The other
group call themselves Darwinians or selectionists, but to my mind with no other right beyond
the arbitrary restriction of the Darwinian principles by Wallace. They assume fluctuating variations
in all directions and leave the choice between them to the sieve of natural selection.

Of course we are far from a decision between these views, on the sole ground of the facts as
known at present. Mutations under observation are as yet very rare; enough to indicate the
possible and most probable ways, but no more. On the other hand the accumulation of fluctuations
does not transgress relatively narrow [9] limits as far as the present methods of selection
go. But the question remains to be solved, whether our methods are truly the right ones, and
whether by the use of new principles, new results might not cause the balance of opinion to
favor the opposite side.

Of late, a thorough and detailed discussion of the opposing views has been given by Morgan
in his valuable book on evolution and adaptation. He has subjected all the proposed theories
to a severe criticism both on the ground of facts and on that of their innate possibility and
logical value. He decides in favor of the mutation theory. His arguments are incisive and complete
and wholly adapted to the comprehension of all intelligent readers, so that his book relieves
me entirely of the necessity of discussing these general questions, as it could not be done
in a better or in a clearer way.

I intend to give a review of the facts obtained from plants which go to prove the assertion,
that species and varieties have originated by mutation, and are, at present, not known to originate
in any other way. This review consists of two parts. One is a critical survey of the facts
of agricultural and horticultural breeding, as they have accumulated since the time of Darwin.
This body of evidence is to be combined with some corresponding experiments [10] concerning
the real nature of species in the wild state. The other part rests on my own observations and
experiments, made in the botanical garden of the University of Amsterdam.

For many years past I have tried to elucidate the hereditary conditions of species and varieties,
and the occasional occurrence of mutations, that suddenly produce new forms.

The present discussion has a double purpose. On one side it will give the justification of
the theory of mutations, as derived from the facts now at hand. On the other hand it will point
out the deficiencies of available evidence, and indicate the ways by which the lacunae may
gradually be filled. Experimental work on heredity does not require vast installments or costly
laboratory equipment. It demands chiefly assiduity and exactitude. Any one who has these two
qualities, and who has a small garden at his disposal is requested to take part in this line
of investigation.

In order to observe directly the birth of new forms it is necessary, in the first place, to
be fully clear concerning the question as to what forms are to be expected to arise from others,
and before proceeding to a demonstration of the origin of species, it is pertinent to raise
the question as to what constitutes a species.

Species is a word, which always has had a [11] double meaning. One is the systematic species,
which is the unit of our system. But these units are by no means indivisible. Long ago Linnaeus
knew them to be compound in a great number of instances, and increasing knowledge has shown
that the same rule prevails in other instances. Today the vast majority of the old systematic
species are known to consist of minor units. These minor entities are called varieties in systematic
works. However, there are many objections to this usage. First, the term variety is applied
in horticulture and agriculture to things so widely divergent as to convey no clear idea at
all. Secondly, the subdivisions of species are by no means all of the same nature, and the
systematic varieties include units the real value of which is widely different in different
cases. Some of these varieties are in reality as good as species, and have been "elevated,"
as it is called by some writers, to this rank. This conception of the elementary species would
be quite justifiable, and would at once get rid of all difficulties, were it not for one practical
obstacle. The number of the species in all genera would be doubled and tripled, and as these
numbers are already cumbersome in many cases, the distinction of the native species of any
given country would lose most of its charm and interest.

[12] In order to meet this difficulty we must recognize two sorts of species. The systematic
species are the practical units of the systematists and florists, and all friends of wild nature
should do their utmost to preserve them as Linnaeus has proposed them. These units however,
are not really existing entities; they have as little claim to be regarded as such as genera
and families. The real units are the elementary species; their limits often apparently overlap
and can only in rare cases be determined on the sole ground of field observations. Pedigree-culture
is the method required and any form which remains constant and distinct from its allies in
the garden is to be considered as an elementary species.

In the following lectures we shall consider this point at length, to show the compound nature
of systematic species in wild and in cultivated plants. In both cases, the principle is becoming
of great importance, and many papers published recently indicate its almost universal acceptation.

Among the systematic subdivisions of species, not all have the same claim to the title of elementary
species. In the first place the cases in which the differences may occur between parts of the
same individual are to be excluded. Dividing an alpine plant into two halves and [13] planting
one in a garden, varietal differences at once arise and are often designated in systematic
works under different varietal names. Secondly all individual differences which are of a fluctuating
nature are to be combined into a group. But with these we shall deal later.

Apart from these minor points the subdivisions of the systematic species exhibit two widely
different features. I will now try to make this clear in a few words, but will return in another
lecture to a fuller discussion of this most interesting contrast.

Linnaeus himself knew that in some cases all subdivisions of a species are of equal rank, together
constituting the group called species. No one of them outranks the others; it is not a species
with varieties, but a group, consisting only of varieties. A closer inquiry into the cases
treated in this manner by the great master of systematic science, shows that here his varieties
were exactly what we now call elementary species.

In other cases the varieties are of a derivative nature. The species constitutes a type that
is pure in a race which ordinarily is still growing somewhere, though in some cases it may
have died out. From this type the varieties are derived, and the way of this derivation is
usually quite manifest to the botanist. It is ordinarily [14] by the disappearance of some
superficial character that a variety is distinguished from its species, as by the lack of color
in the flowers, of hairs on stems and foliage, of the spines and thorns, &c. Such varieties
are, strictly speaking, not to be treated in the same way as elementary species, though they
often are. We shall designate them by the term of "retrograde varieties," which clearly indicates
the nature of their relationship to the species from which they are assumed to have sprung.
In order to lay more stress on the contrast between elementary species and retrograde varieties,
it should be stated at once, that the first are considered to have originated from their parent-form
in a progressive way. They have succeeded in attaining something quite new for themselves,
while retrograde varieties have only thrown off some peculiarity, previously acquired by their
ancestors.

The whole vegetable kingdom exhibits a constant struggle between progression and retrogression.
Of course, the great lines of the general pedigree are due to progression, many single steps
in this direction leading together to the great superiority of the flowering plants over their
cryptogamous ancestors. But progression is nearly always accompanied by retrogression in the
principal lines of evolution, [15] as well as in the collateral branches of the genealogical
tree. Sometimes it prevails, and the monocotyledons are obviously a reduced branch of the primitive
dicotyledons. In orchids and aroids, in grasses and sedges, reduction plays a most important
part, leaving its traces on the flowers as well as on the embryo of the seed. Many instances
could be given to prove that progression and retrogression are the two main principles of evolution
at large. Hence the conclusion, that our analysis must dissect the complicated phenomena of
evolution so far as to show the separate functions of these two contrasting principles. Hundreds
of steps were needed to evolve the family of the orchids, but the experimenter must take the
single steps for the object of his inquiry. He finds that some are progressive and others retrogressive
and so his investigation falls under two heads, the origin of progressive characters, and the
subsequent loss of the same. Progressive steps are the marks of elementary species, while retrograde
varieties are distinguished by apparent losses. They have equal claim to our interest and our
study.

As already stated I propose to deal first with the elementary species and afterwards with the
retrograde varieties. I shall try to depict them to you in the first place as they are seen
in [16] nature and in culture, leaving the question of their origin to a subsequent experimental
treatment.

The question of the experimental origin of new species and varieties has to be taken up from
two widely separated starting points. This may be inferred from what we have already seen concerning
the two opposing theories, derived and isolated from Darwin's original broad conception. One
of them considers mutations as the origin of new forms, while the other assumes fluctuations
to be the source of all evolution.

As mentioned above, my own experience has led me to accept the first view. Therefore I shall
have to show that mutations do yield new and constant forms, while fluctuations are not adequate
to do so. Retrograde varieties and elementary species may both be seen to be produced by sudden
mutations. Varieties have often been observed to appear at once and quite unexpectedly in horticulture
and agriculture, and a survey of these historical facts will be the subject of one of my lectures.
In some instances I have succeeded in repeating these observations in my garden under the strict
conditions of a scientific experiment, and these instances teach us the real nature of the
process of mutation in all its visible features. New elementary [17] species are far more rare,
but I have discovered in the great evening-primrose, or Oenothera lamarckiana a strain which
is producing them yearly in the wild state as well as in my garden. These observations and
pedigree-experiments will be dealt with at due length in subsequent lectures.

Having proved the existence and importance of mutations, it remains to inquire how far the
improvements may go which are due only to fluctuating variability. As the term indicates, this
variability is fluctuating to and fro, oscillating around an average type. It never fails nor
does it, under ordinary circumstances, depart far from the fixed average.

But the deviation may be enlarged by a choice of extremes. In sowing their seed, the average
of the strain is seen to be changed, and in repeating the experiment the change may be considerable.
It is not clear, whether theoretically by such an accumulation, deviations might be reached
which could not be attained at once in a single sowing. This question is hardly susceptible
of an experimental answer, as it would require such an enormous amount of seed from a few mother
plants as can scarcely ever be produced.

The whole character of the fluctuations shows them to be of an opposite nature, contrasting
[18] manifestly with specific and varietal characters. By this method they may be proved to
be inadequate ever to make a single step along the great lines of evolution, in regard to progressive
as well as to retrograde development.

First of all fluctuations are linear, amplifying or lessening the existing qualities, but not
really changing their nature. They are not observed to produce anything quite new, and evolution
of course, is not restricted to the increase of the already existing peculiarities, but depends
chiefly on the continuous addition of new characters to the stock. Fluctuations always oscillate
around an average, and if removed from this for some time, they show a tendency to return to
it. This tendency, called retrogression, has never been observed to fail, as it should, in
order to free the new strain from the links with the average, while new species and new varieties
are seen to be quite free from their ancestors and not linked to them by intermediates.

The last few lectures will be devoted to questions concerning the great problem of the analogy
between natural and artificial selection. As already stated, Darwin made this analogy the foundation
stone of his theory of descent, and he met with the severest objections and criticisms precisely
on this point. But I hope to [19] show that he was quite right, and that the cause of the divergence
of opinions is due simply to the very incomplete state of knowledge concerning both processes.
If both are critically analyzed they may be seen to comprise the same factors, and further
discussion may be limited to the appreciation of the part which each of them has played in
nature and among cultivated plants.

Both natural and artificial selection are partly specific, and partly intra-specific or individual.
Nature of course, and intelligent men first chose the best elementary species from among the
swarms. In cultivation this is the process of variety-testing. In nature it is the survival
of the fittest species, or, as Morgan designates it, the survival of species in the struggle
for existence. The species are not changed by this struggle, they are only weighed against
each other, the weak being thrown aside.

Within the chosen elementary species there is also a struggle. It is obvious, that the fluctuating
variability adapts some to the given circumstances, while it lessens the chances of others.
A choice results, and this choice is what is often exclusively called selection, either natural
or artificial. In cultivation it produces the improved and the local races; in nature little
is known about improvement in this way, but [19] local adaptations with slight changes of the
average character in separate localities, seem to be of quite normal occurrence.

A new method of individual selection has been used in recent years in America, especially by
W.M. Hays. It consists in judging the hereditary worth of a plant by the average condition
of its offspring, instead of by its own visible characters. If this determination of the "centgener
power," as Hays calls it, should prove to be the true principle of selection, then indeed the
analogy between natural and artificial selection would lose a large part of its importance.
We will reserve this question for the last lecture, as it pertains more to the future, than
to our present stock of knowledge.

Something should be said here concerning hybrids and hybridism. This problem has of late reached
such large proportions that it cannot be dealt with adequately in a short survey of the phenomena
of heredity in general. It requires a separate treatment. For this reason I shall limit myself
to a single phase of the problem, which seems to be indispensable for a true and at the same
time easy distinction between elementary species and retrograde varieties. According to accepted
terminology, some crosses are to be considered as unsymmetrical, while others are symmetrical.
The first are one-sided, [21] some peculiarity being found in one of the parents and lacking
in the other. The second are balanced, as all the characters are present in both parents, but
are found in a different condition. Active in one of them, they are concealed or inactive in
the other. Hence pairs of contrasting units result, while in unbalanced crosses no pairing
of the particular character under consideration is possible. This leads to the principal difference
between species and varieties, and to an experimental method of deciding between them in difficult
and doubtful cases.

Having thus indicated the general outlines of the subjects I shall deal with, something now
may be said as to methods of investigation.

There are two points in which scientific investigation differs from ordinary pedigree-culture
in practice. First the isolation of the individuals and the study of individual inheritance,
instead of averages. Next comes the task of keeping records. Every individual must be entered,
its ancestry must be known as completely as possible, and all its relations must be noted in
such a form, that the most complete reference is always possible. Mutations may come unexpectedly,
and when once arisen, their parents and grand-parents should be known. Records must be available
which will allow of a most complete knowledge of the whole ancestral [22] line. This, and approximately
this only, is the essential difference between experimental and accidental observation.

Mutations are occurring from time to time in the wild state as well as in horticulture and
agriculture. A selection of the most interesting instances will be given later. But in all
such cases the experimental proof is wanting. The observations as a rule, only began when the
mutation had made its appearance. A more or less vague remembrance about the previous state
of the plants in question might be available, though even this is generally absent. But on
doubtful points, concerning possible crosses or possible introduction of foreign strains, mere
recollection is insufficient. The fact of the mutation may be very probable, but the full proof
is, of course, wanting. Such is the case with the mutative origin of Xanthium commune Wootoni
from New Mexico and of Oenothera biennis cruciata from Holland. The same doubt exists as to
the origin of the Capsella heegeri of Solms-Laubach, and of the oldest recorded mutation, that
of Chelidonium laciniatum in Heidelberg about 1600.

First, we have doubts about the fact itself. These, however, gradually lose their importance
in the increasing accumulation of evidence. Secondly, the impossibility of a closer [23] inquiry
into the real nature of the change. For experimental purposes a single mutation does not suffice;
it must be studied repeatedly, and be produced more or less arbitrarily, according to the nature
of the problems to be solved. And in order to do this, it is evidently not enough to have in
hand the mutated individual, but it is indispensable to have also the mutable parents, or the
mutable strain from which it sprang.

All conditions previous to the mutation are to be considered as of far higher importance than
all those subsequent to it.

Now mutations come unexpectedly, and if the ancestry of an accidental mutation is to be known,
it is of course necessary to keep accounts of all the strains cultivated. It is evident that
the required knowledge concerning the ancestry of a supposed mutation, must necessarily nearly
all be acquired from the plants in the experimental garden.

Obviously this rule is as simple in theory, as it is difficult to carry out in practice. First
of all comes the book-keeping. The parents, grandparents and previous ancestors must be known
individually. Accounts of them must be kept under two headings. A full description of their
individual character and peculiarities must always be available on the one hand, and on the
other, all facts concerning their hereditary [24] qualities. These are to be deduced from the
composition of the progeny, and in order to obtain complete evidence on this point, two successive
generations are often required. The investigation must ascertain the average condition of this
offspring and the occurrence of any deviating specimens, and for both purposes it is necessary
to cultivate them in relatively large numbers. It is obvious that, properly speaking, the whole
family of a mutated individual, including all its nearer and more remote relatives, should
be known and recorded.

Hence pedigree-book-keeping must become the general rule. Subordinate to this are two further
points, which should likewise be stated here. One pertains to the pure or hybrid nature of
the original strain, and the other to the life-conditions and all other external influences.
It is manifest that a complete understanding of a mutation depends upon full information upon
these points.

All experiments must have a beginning. The starting-point may be a single individual, or a
small group of plants, or a lot of seeds. In many cases the whole previous history is obscure,
but sometimes a little historical evidence is at hand. Often it is evident that the initial
material belongs to a pure species, but with respect to the question of elementary species
it is [25] not rarely open to doubt. Large numbers of hybrid plants and hybrid races are in
existence, concerning the origin of which it is impossible to decide. It is impossible in many
instances to ascertain whether they are of hybrid or of pure origin. Often there is only one
way of determining the matter; it is to guess at the probable parents in case of a cross and
to repeat the cross. This is a point which always requires great care in the interpretation
of unusual facts.

Three cases are to be distinguished as to heredity. Many plants are so constituted as to be
fertilized with their own pollen. In this case the visits of insects have simply to be excluded,
which may be done by covering plants with iron gauze or with bags of prepared paper. Sometimes
they fertilize themselves without any aid, as for instance, the common evening-primrose; in
other cases the pollen has to be placed on the stigma artificially, as with Lamarck's evening-primrose
and its derivatives. Other plants need cross-fertilization in order to produce a normal yield
of seeds. Here two individuals have always to be combined, and the pedigree becomes a more
complicated one. Such is the case with the toad-flax, which is nearly sterile with its own
pollen. But even in these cases the visits of insects bringing pollen [26] from other plants,
must be carefully excluded. A special lecture will be devoted to this very interesting source
of impurity and of uncertainty in ordinary cultures.

Of course, crosses may lie in the proposed line of work, and this is the third point to be
alluded to. They must be surrounded with the same careful isolation and protection against
bees, as any other fertilizations. And not only the seed-parent, but also the pollen must be
kept pure from all possible foreign admixtures.

A pure and accurately recorded ancestry is thus to be considered as the most important condition
of success in experimental plant breeding. Next to this comes the gathering of the seeds of
each individual separately. Fifty or sixty, and often more, bags of seeds are by no means uncommon
for a single experiment, and in ordinary years the harvest of my garden is preserved in over
a thousand separate lots.

Complying with these conditions, the origin of species may be seen as easily as any other phenomenon.
It is only necessary to have a plant in a mutable condition. Not all species are in such a
state at present, and therefore I have begun by ascertaining which were stable and which were
not. These attempts, of course, had to be made in the experimental garden, and large quantities
of seed had to be procured and [27] sown. Cultivated plants of course, had only a small chance
to exhibit new qualities, as they have been so strictly controlled during so many years. Moreover
their purity of origin is in many cases doubtful. Among wild plants only those could be expected
to reward the investigator which were of easy cultivation. For this reason I have limited myself
to the trial of wild plants of Holland, and have had the good fortune to find among them at
least one species in a state of mutability. It was not really a native plant, but one that
had been introduced from America and belongs to an American genus. I refer to the great evening-primrose
or the evening-primrose of Lamarck. A strain of this beautiful species is growing in an abandoned
field in the vicinity of Hilversum, at a short distance from Amsterdam. Here it has escaped
from a park and multiplied. In doing so it has produced and is still producing quite a number
of new types, some of which may be considered as retrograde varieties, while others evidently
are of the nature of progressive elementary species.

This interesting plant has afforded me the means of observing directly how new species originate,
and of studying the laws of these changes. My researches have followed a double line of inquiry.
On one side, I have limited [28] myself to direct field observations, and to tests of seed,
collected from the wild plants in their native locality. Obviously the mutations are decided
within the seed, and the culture of young plants from them had no other aim than that of ascertaining
what had occurred in the field. And then the many chances of destruction that threaten young
plants in a wild state, could be avoided in the garden, where environmental factors can be
controlled.

My second line of inquiry was an experimental repetition of the phenomena which were only partly
discerned at the native locality. It was not my aim to intrude into the process, nor to try
to bring out new features. My only object was to submit to the precepts just given concerning
pure treatment, individual seed gathering, exclusion of crosses and accurate recording of all
the facts. The result has been a pedigree which now permits of stating the relation between
all the descendants of my original introduced plant. This pedigree at once exhibits the laws
followed by the mutating species. The main fact is, that it does not change itself gradually,
but remains unaffected during all succeeding generations. It only throws off new forms, which
are sharply contrasted with the parent, and which are from the very beginning as perfect and
as constant, as narrowly [29] defined and as pure of type as might be expected of any species.

These new species are not produced once or in single individuals, but yearly and in large numbers.
The whole phenomenon conveys the idea of a close group of mutations, all belonging to one single
condition of mutability. Of course this mutable state must have had a beginning, as it must
sometime come to an end. It is to be considered as a period within the life-time of the species
and probably it is only a small part of it.

The detailed description of this experiment, however, I must delay to a subsequent lecture,
but I may be allowed to state, that the discovery of this period of mutability is of a definite
theoretical importance. One of the greatest objections to the Darwinian theory of descent arose
from the length of time it would require, if all evolution was to be explained on the theory
of slow and nearly invisible changes. This difficulty is at once met and fully surmounted by
the hypothesis of periodical but sudden and quite noticeable steps. This assumption requires
only a limited number of mutative periods, which might well occur within the time allowed by
physicists and geologists for the existence of animal and vegetable life on the earth.

[30] Summing up the main points of these introductory remarks, I propose to deal with the subjects
mentioned above at some length, devoting to each of them, if possible at least an entire lecture.
The decisive facts and discussions upon which the conclusions are based will be given in every
case. Likewise I hope to point out the weak places and the lacunae in our present knowledge,
and to show the way in which each of you may try to contribute his part towards the advancement
of science in this subject. Lastly I shall try to prove that sudden mutation is the normal
way in which nature produces new species and new varieties. These mutations are more readily
accessible to observation and experiment than the slow and gradual changes surmised by Wallace
and his followers, which are entirely beyond our present and future experience.

The theory of mutations is a starting-point for direct investigation, while the general belief
in slow changes has held back science from such investigations during half a century.

Coming now to the subdivisions and headings under which my material is to be presented, I propose
describing first the real nature of the elementary species and retrograde varieties, both in
normal form and in hybridizations. A discussion of other types of varieties, including [31]
monstrosities will complete the general plan. The second subdivision will deal with the origin
of species and varieties as taught by experiment and observation, treating separately the sudden
variations which to my mind do produce new forms, and subsequently the fluctuations which I
hold to be not adequate to this purpose.

[32] B. ELEMENTARY SPECIES

LECTURE II

ELEMENTARY SPECIES IN NATURE

What are species? Species are considered as the true units of nature by the vast majority of
biologists. They have gained this high rank in our estimation principally through the influence
of Linnaeus. They have supplanted the genera which were the accepted units before Linnaeus.
They are now to be replaced in their turn, by smaller types, for reasons which do not rest
upon comparative studies but upon direct experimental evidence.

Biological studies and practical interests alike make new demands upon systematic botany. Species
are not only the subject-material of herbaria and collections, but they are living entities,
and their life-history and life-conditions command a gradually increasing interest. One phase
of the question is to determine the easiest manner to deal with the collected forms of a country,
and another feature is the problem [33] as to what groups are real units and will remain constant
and unchanged through all the years of our observations.

Before Linnaeus, the genera were the real units of the system. De Candolle pointed out that
the old common names of plants, such as roses and clover, poplars and oaks, nearly all refer
to genera. The type of the clovers is rich in color, and the shape of the flower-heads and
the single flowers escape ordinary observation; but notwithstanding this, clovers are easily
recognized, even if new types come to hand. White and red clovers and many other species are
distinguished simply by adjectives, the generic name remaining the same for all.

Tournefort, who lived in the second half of the 17th century (1656-1708), is generally considered
as the author of genera in systematic botany. He adopted, what was at that time the general
conception and applied it throughout the vegetable kingdom. He grouped the new and the rare
and the previously overlooked forms in the same manner in which the more conspicuous plants
were already arranged by universal consent. Species were distinguished by minor marks and often
indicated by short descriptions, but they were considered of secondary importance.

Based on the idea of a direct creation of all [34] living beings, the genera were then accepted
as the created forms. They were therefore regarded as the real existing types, and it was generally
surmised that species and varieties owed their origin to subsequent changes under the influence
of external conditions. Even Linnaeus agreed with this view in his first treatises and in his
"Philosophical Botany" he still kept to the idea that all genera had been created at once with
the beginning of life.

Afterwards Linnaeus changed his opinion on this important point, and adopted species as the
units of the system. He declared them to be the created forms, and by this decree, at once
reduced the genera to the rank of artificial groups. Linnaeus was well aware that this conception
was wholly arbitrary, and that even the species are not real indivisible entities. But he simply
forbade the study of lesser subdivisions. At his time he was quite justified in doing so, because
the first task of the systematic botanists was the clearing up of the chaos of forms and the
bringing of them into connection with their real allies.

Linnaeus himself designated the subdivisions of the species as varieties, but in doing so he
followed two clearly distinct principles. In some cases his species were real plants, and the
varieties seemed to be derived from them by [35] some simple changes. They were subordinated
to the parent-species. In other cases his species were groups of lesser forms of equal value,
and it was not possible to discern which was the primary and which were the derivatives.

These two methods of subdivision seem in the main, and notwithstanding their relatively imperfect
application in many single examples, to correspond with two really distinct cases. The derivative
varieties are distinguished from the parent-species by some single, but striking mark, and
often this attribute manifests itself as the loss of some apparent quality. The loss of spines
and of hairs and the loss of blue and red flower-colors are the most notorious, but in rarer
cases many single peculiarities may disappear, thereby constituting a variety. This relation
of varieties to the parent-species is gradually increasing in importance in the estimation
of botanists, sharply contrasting with those cases, in which such dependency is not to be met with.

If among the subdivisions of a species, no single one can be pointed out as playing a primary
part, and the others can not be traced back to it, the relation between these lesser units
is of course of another character. They are to be considered of equal importance. They are
distinguished from each other by more than [36] one character, often by slight differences
in nearly all their organs and qualities. Such forms have come to be designated as "elementary
species." They are only varieties in a broad and vague systematic significance of the word,
not in the sense accorded to this term in horticultural usage, nor in a sharper and more scientific
conception.

Genera and species are, at the present time, for a large part artificial, or stated more correctly,
conventional groups. Every systematist is free to delimit them in a wider or in a narrower
sense, according to his judgment. The greater authorities have as a rule preferred larger genera,
others of late have elevated innumerable subgenera to the rank of genera. This would work no
real harm, if unfortunately, the names of the plants had not to be changed each time, according
to current ideas concerning genera. Quite the same inconstancy is observed with species. In
the Handbook of the British Flora, Bentham and Hooker describe the forms of brambles under
5 species, while Babington in his Manual of British Botany makes 45 species out of the same
material. So also in other cases. For instance, the willows which have 13 species in one and
31 species in the other of these manuals, and the hawkweeds for which the figures are 7 and
32 [37] respectively. Other authors have made still greater numbers of species in the same groups.

It is very difficult to estimate systematic differences on the ground of comparative studies
alone. All sorts of variability occur, and no individual or small group of specimens can really
be considered as a reliable representative of the supposed type. Many original diagnoses of
new species have been founded on divergent specimens and of course, the type can afterwards
neither be derived from this individual, nor from the diagnosis given.

This chaotic state of things has brought some botanists to the conviction that even in systematic
studies only direct experimental evidence can be relied upon. This conception has induced them
to test the constancy of species and varieties, and to admit as real units only such groups
of individuals as prove to be uniform and constant throughout succeeding generations. The late
Alexis Jordan, of Lyons in France, made extensive cultures in this direction. In doing so,
he discovered that systematic species, as a rule, comprise some lesser forms, which often cannot
easily be distinguished when grown in different regions, or by comparing dried material. This
fact was, of course, most distasteful to the systematists of his time and even for a long period
afterwards [38] they attempted to discredit it. Milde and many others have opposed these new
ideas with some temporary success. Only of late has the school of Jordan received due recognition,
after Thuret, de Bary, Rosen and others tested its practices and openly pronounced for them.
Of late Wittrock of Sweden has joined them, making extensive experimental studies concerning
the real units of some of the larger species of his country.

From the evidence given by these eminent authorities, we may conclude that systematic species,
as they are accepted nowadays, are as a rule compound groups. Sometimes they consist of two
or three, or a few elementary types, but in other cases they comprise twenty, or fifty, or
even hundreds of constant and well differentiated forms.

The inner constitution of these groups is however, not at all the same in all cases. This will
be seen by the description of some of the more interesting of them. The European heartsease,
from which our garden-pansies have been chiefly derived, will serve as an example. The garden-pansies
are a hybrid race, won by crossing the Viola tricolor with the large flowered and bright yellow
V. lutea. They combine, as everyone knows, in their wide range of [39] varieties, the attributes
of the latter with the peculiarities of the former species.

Besides the lutea, there are some other species, nearly allied to tricolor, as for instance,
cornuta, calcarata, and altaica, which are combined with it under the head of Melanium as a
subgenus, and which together constitute a systematic unity of undoubted value, but ranging
between the common conceptions of genus and species. These forms are so nearly allied to the
heartsease that they have of late been made use of in crosses, in order to widen the range
of variability of garden-pansies.

Viola tricolor is a common European weed. It is widely dispersed and very abundant, growing
in many localities in large numbers. It is an annual and ripens its seeds freely, and if opportunity
is afforded, it multiplies rapidly.

Viola tricolor has three subspecies, which have been elevated to the rank of species by some
authors, and which may here be called, for brevity's sake, by their binary names. One is the
typical V. tricolor, with broad flowers, variously colored and veined with yellow, purple and
white. It occurs in waste places on sandy soil. The second is called V. arvensis or the field-pansy;
it has small inconspicuous flowers, with pale-yellowish petals which are shorter than the sepals.
It pollinates itself without the [40] aid of insects, and is widely dispersed in cultivated
fields. The third form, V. alpestris, grows in the Alps, but is of lesser importance for our
present discussion.

Anywhere throughout the central part of Europe V. tricolor and V. arvensis may be seen, each
occupying its own locality. They may be considered as ranging among the most common native
plants of the particular regions they inhabit. They vary in the color of the flowers, branching
of the stems, in the foliage and other parts, but not to such an extent as to constitute distinct
strains. They have been brought into cultivation by Jordan, Wittrock and others, but throughout
Europe each of them constitutes a single type.

These types must be very old and constant, fluctuating always within the same distinct and
narrow limits. No slow, gradual changes can have taken place. In different countries their
various habitats are as old as the historical records, and probably many centuries older. They
are quite independent of one another, the distance being in numerous cases far too great for
the exchange of pollen or of seeds. If slow and gradual changes were the rule, the types could
not have remained so uniform throughout the whole range of these two species. They would necessarily
have split up into thousands [41] and thousands of minor races, which would show their peculiar
characteristics if tested by cultures in adjacent beds. This however, is not what happens.
As a matter of fact V. tricolor and V. arvensis are widely distributed but wholly constant types.

Besides these, there occur distinct types in numerous localities. Some of them evidently have
had time and opportunity to spread more or less widely and now occupy larger regions or even
whole countries. Others are narrowly limited, being restricted to a single locality. Wittrock
collected seeds or plants from as many localities as possible in different parts of Sweden
and neighboring states and sowed them in his garden near Stockholm. He secured seeds from his
plants, and grew from them a second, and in many cases a third generation in order to estimate
the amount of variability. As a rule the forms introduced into his garden proved constant,
notwithstanding the new and abnormal conditions under which they were propagated.

First of all we may mention three perennial forms called by him Viola tricolor ammotropha,
V. tricolor coniophila and V. stenochila. The typical V. tricolor is an annual plant; sowing
itself in summer and germinating soon afterwards. The young plants thrive throughout [42] the
latter part of the summer and during the fall, reaching an advanced stage of development of
the branched stems before winter. Early in the spring the flowers begin to open, but after
the ripening of the seeds the whole plant dies.

The three perennial species just mentioned develop in the same manner in the first year. During
their flowering period, however, and afterwards, they produce new shoots from the lower parts
of the stem. They prefer dry and sandy soils, often becoming covered with the sand that is
blown on them by the winds. They are prepared for such seemingly adverse circumstances by the
accumulation of food in the older stems and by the capacity of the new shoots to thrive on
this food till they have become long enough to reach the light. V. tricolor ammotropha is native
near Ystad in Sweden, and the other two forms on Gotland. All three have narrowly limited habitats.

The typical tricolored heartsease has remained annual in all its other subspecies. It may be
divided into two types in the first place, V. tricolor genuina and V. tricolor versicolor.
Both of them have a wide distribution and seem to be the prototypes from which the rarer forms
must have been derived. Among these latter Wittrock describes seven local types, which [43]
proved to be constant in his pedigree-cultures. Some of them have produced other forms, related
to them in the way of varieties. They all have nearly the same general habit and do not exhibit
any marked differences in their growth, in the structure and branching of the stems, or in
the character of their foliage. Differentiating points are to be found mainly in the colors
and patterns of the flowers. The veins, which radiate from the centre of the corolla are branched
in some and undivided in others; in one elementary species they are wholly lacking. The purple
color may be absent, leaving the flowers of a pale or a deep yellow. Or the purple may be reddish
or bluish. Of the petals all five may have the purple hue on their tips, or this attribute
may be limited to the two upper ones. Contrasting with this wide variability is the stability
of the yellow spot in the centre, which is always present and becomes inconspicuous only, when
the whole petals are of the same hue. It is a general conception that colors and color-markings
are liable to great variability and do not constitute reliable standards. But the cultures
of Wittrock have proved the contrary, at least in the case of the violets. No pattern, however
quaint, appears changeable, if one elementary species only is considered. Hundreds of plants
from seeds [44] from one locality may be grown, and all will exhibit exactly the same markings.
Most of these forms are of very local occurrence. The most beautiful of all, the ornatissima,
is found only in Jemtland, the aurobadia only in Sodermanland, the anopetala in other localities
in the same country, the roseola near Stockholm, and the yellow lutescens in Finmarken.

The researches of Wittrock included only a small number of elementary species, but every one
who has observed the violets in the central parts of Europe must be convinced that many dozens
of constant forms of the typical Viola tricolor might easily be found and isolated.

We now come to the field pansy, the Viola arvensis, a very common weed in the grain-fields
of central Europe. I have already mentioned its small corolla, surpassed by the lobes of the
calyx and its capacity of self-fertilization. It has still other curious differentiating characters;
the pollen grains, which are square in V. tricolor, are five-sided in V. arvensis. Some transgressive
fluctuating variability may occur in both cases through the admixture of pollen-grains. Even
three-angled pollen grains are seen sometimes. Other marks are observed in the form of the
anthers and the spur.

There seem to be very many local subspecies [45] of the field-pansy. Jordan has described some
from the vicinity of Lyons, and Wittrock others from the northern parts of Europe. They diverge
from their common prototype in nearly all attributes, the flowers not showing the essential
differentiating characters as in the V. tricolor. Some have their flower-stalks erect, and
in others the flowers are held nearly at right angles to the stem. V. pallescens is a small,
almost unbranched species with small pale flowers. V. segetalis is a stouter species with two
dark blue spots on the tips of the upper petals. V. agrestis is a tall and branched, hairy
form. V. nemausensis attains a height of only 10 cm., has rounded leaves and long flower-stalks.
Even the seeds afford characters which may be made use of in isolating the various species.

The above-mentioned elementary forms belong to the flora of southern France, and Wittrock has
isolated and cultivated a number of others from the fields of Sweden. A species from Stockholm
is called Viola patens; V. arvensis curtisepala occurs in Gotland, and V. arvensis striolata
is a distinct form, which has appeared in his cultures without its true origin being ascertained.

The alpine violets comprise a more widespread type with some local elementary species [46]
derived exactly in the same way as the tricolored field pansies.

Summarizing the general result of this description we see that the original species Viola tricolor
may be split up into larger and lesser groups of separate forms. These last prove to be constant
in pedigree-cultures, and therefore are to be considered as really existent units. They are
very numerous, comprising many dozens in each of the two larger subdivisions.

All systematic grouping of these forms, and their combination into subspecies and species rests
on the comparative study of their characters. The result of such studies must necessarily depend
on principles which underlie them. According to the choice of these principles, the construction
of the groups will be found to be different. Wittrock trusts in the first place to morphologic
characters, and considers the development as passing from the more simple to the more complex
types. On the other hand the geographic distribution may be considered as an indication of
the direction of evolution, the wide-spread forms being regarded as the common parents of the
minor local species.

However, such considerations are only of secondary importance. It must be borne in mind that
an ordinary systematic species may include [47] many dozens of elementary forms, each of which
remains constant and unchanged in successive generations, even if cultivated in the same garden
and under similar external conditions.

Leaving the violets, we may take the vernal whitlow-grass or Draba verna for a second illustration.
This little annual cruciferous plant is common in the fields of many parts of the United States,
though originally introduced from Europe. It has small basal rosettes which develop during
summer and winter, and produce numerous leafless flowering stems early in the spring. It is
a native of central Europe and western Asia, and may be considered as one of the most common
plants, occurring anywhere in immense numbers on sandy soils. Jordan was the first to point
out that it is not the same throughout its entire range. Although a hasty survey does not reveal
differences, they show themselves on closer inspection. De Bary, Thuret, Rosen and many others
confirmed this result, and repeated the pedigree-cultures of Jordan. Every type is constant
and remains unchanged in successive generations. The anthers open in the flower-buds and pollinate
the stigmas before the expansion of the flowers, thus assuring self-fertilization. Moreover,
these inconspicuous little flowers are only sparingly visited by insects. Dozens of subspecies
[48] may be cultivated in the same garden without any real danger of their intercrossing. They
remain as pure as under perfect isolation.

It is very interesting to observe the aspect of such types, when growing near each other. Hundreds
of rosettes exhibit one type, and are undoubtedly similar. The alternative group is distinguishable
at first sight, though the differentiating marks are often so slight as to be traceable with
difficulty. Two elementary species occur in Holland, one with narrow leaves in the western
provinces and one with broader foliage in the northern parts. I have cultivated them side by
side, and was as much struck with the uniformity within each group, as with the contrast between
the two sets.

Nearly all organs show differences. The most marked are those of the leaves, which may be small
or large, linear or elliptic or oblong and even rhomboidal in shape, more or less hairy with
simple or with stellate branched hairs, and finally of a pure green or of a glaucous color.
The petals are as a rule obcordate, but this type may be combined with others having more or
less broad emarginations at the summit, and with differences in breadth which vary from almost
linear types to others which touch along their margins. The pods are short and broad, or long
and narrow, or varying in sundry other [49] ways. All in all there are constant differences
which are so great that it has been possible to distinguish and to describe large numbers of types.

Many of them have been tested as to their constancy from seed. Jordan made numerous cultures,
some of which lasted ten or twelve years; Thuret has verified the assertion concerning their
constancy by cultures extending over seven years in some instances; Villars and de Bary made
numerous trials of shorter duration. All agree as to the main points. The local races are uniform
and come true from seed; the variability of the species is not of a fluctuating, but of a polymorphous
nature. A given elementary species keeps within its limits and cannot vary beyond them, but
the whole group gives the impression of variability by its wide range of distinct, but nearly
allied forms.

The geographic distribution of these elementary species of the whitlow-grass is quite distinct
from that of the violets. Here predominant species are limited to restricted localities. Most
of them occupy one or more departments of France, and in Holland two of them are spread over
several provinces. An important number are native in the centre of Europe, and from the vicinity
of Lyons, Jordan succeeded in establishing about fifty elementary [50] species in his garden.
In this region they are crowded together and not rarely two or even more quite distinct forms
are observed to grow side by side on the same spot. Farther away from this center they are
more widely dispersed, each holding its own in its habitat. In all, Jordan has distinguished
about two hundred species of Draba verna from Europe and western Asia. Subsequent authors have
added new types to the already existing number from time to time.

The constancy of these elementary species is directly proven by the experiments quoted above,
and moreover it may be deduced from the uniformity of each type within its own domain. These
are so large that most of the localities are practically isolated from one another, and must
have been so for centuries. If the types were slowly changing such localities would often,
though of course not always, exhibit slighter differences, and on the geographic limits of
neighboring species intermediates would be found. Such however, are not on record. Hence the
elementary species must be regarded as old and constant types.

The question naturally arises how these groups of nearly allied forms may originally have been
produced. Granting a common origin for all of them, the changes may have been [51] simultaneous
or successive. According to the geographic distribution, the place of common origin must probably
be sought in the southern part of central Europe, perhaps even in the vicinity of Lyons. Here
we may assume that the old Draba verna has produced a host or a swarm of new types. Thence
they must have spread over Europe, but whether in doing so they have remained constant, or
whether some or many of them have repeatedly undergone specific mutations, is of course unknown.

The main fact is, that such a small species as Draba verna is not at all a uniform type, but
comprises over two hundred well distinguished and constant forms.

It is readily granted that violets and whitlowgrasses are extreme instances of systematic variability.
Such great numbers of elementary species are not often included in single species of the system.
But the numbers are of secondary importance, and the fact that systematic species consist,
as a rule, of more than one independent and constant subspecies, retains its almost universal
validity.

In some cases the systematic species are manifest groups, sharply differentiated from one another.
In other instances the groups of elementary forms as they are shown by direct observation,
have been adjudged by many authors [52] to be too large to constitute species. Hence the polymorphous
genera, concerning the systematic subdivisions of which hardly two authors agree. Brambles
and roses are widely known instances, but oaks, elms, apples, and pears, Mentha, Prunus, Vitis,
Lactuca, Cucumis, Cucurbita and numerous others are in the same condition.

In some instances the existence of elementary species is so obvious, that they have been described
by taxonomists as systematic varieties or even as good species. The primroses afford a widely
known example. Linnaeus called them Primula veris, and recognized three types as pertaining
to this species, but Jacquin and others have elevated these subspecies to the full rank of
species. They now bear the names of Primula elatior with larger, P. officinalis with smaller
flowers, and P. acaulis. In the last named the common flower-stalk is lacking and the flowers
of the umbel seem to be borne in the arils of the basal leaves.

In other genera such nearly allied species are more or less universally recognized. Galium
Mollugo has been divided into G. elatum with a long and weak stem, and G. erectum with shorter
and erect stems; Cochlearia danica, anglica and officinalis are so nearly allied as to be hardly
distinguishable. Sagina apetala and patula, [53] Spergula media and salina and many other pairs
of allied species have differentiating characters of the same value as those of the elementary
species of Draba verna. Filago, Plantago, Carex, Ficaria and a long series of other genera
afford proofs of the same close relation between smaller and larger groups of species. The
European frost-weeds or Helianthemum include a group of species which are so closely allied,
that ordinary botanical descriptions are not adequate to give any idea of their differentiating
features. It is almost impossible to determine them by means of the common analytical keys.
They have to be gathered from their various native localities and cultivated side by side in
the garden to bring out their differences. Among the species of France, according to Jordan,
Helianthemum polifolium, H. apenninum, H. pilosum and H. pulverulentum are of this character.

A species of cinquefoil, Potentilla Tormentilla, which is distinguished by its quaternate flowers,
occurs in Holland in two distinct types, which have proved constant in my cultural experiments.
One of them has, broad petals, meeting together at the edges, and constituting rounded saucer
without breaks. The other has narrow petals, which are strikingly separated from one another
and show the sepals between them. [54] In the same manner bluebells vary in the size and shape
of the corolla, which may be wide or narrow, bell-shaped or conical, with the tips turned downwards,
sidewards or backwards.

As a rule all of the more striking elementary types have been described by local botanists
under distinct specific names, while they are thrown together into the larger systematic species
by other authors, who study the distribution of plants over larger portions of the world. Everything
depends on the point of view taken. Large floras require large species. But the study of local
floras yields the best results if the many forms of the region are distinguished and described
as completely as possible. And the easiest way is to give to each of them a specific name.
If two or more elementary species are united in the same district, they are often treated in
this way, but if each region had its own type of some given species, commonly the part is taken
for the whole, and the sundry forms are described under the same name, without further distinctions.

Of course these questions are all of a practical and conventional nature, but involve the different
methods in which different authors deal with the same general fact. The fact is that systematic
species are compound groups, exactly like the genera and that their real units [55] can only
be recognized by comparative experimental studies.

Though the evidence already given might be esteemed to be sufficient for our purpose, I should
like to introduce a few more examples; two of them pertain to American plants.

The Ipecac spurge or Euphorbia Ipecacuanha occurs from Connecticut to Florida, mainly near
the coast, preferring dry and sandy soil. It is often found by the roadsides. According to
Britton and Brown's "Illustrated Flora" it is glabrous or pubescent, with several or many stems,
ascending or nearly erect; with green or red leaves, which are wonderfully variable in outline,
from linear to orbicular, mostly opposite, the upper sometimes whorled, the lower often alternate.
The glands of the involucres are elliptic or oblong, and even the seeds vary in shape.

Such a wide range of variability evidently points to the existence of some minor types. Dr.
John Harshberger has made a study of those which occur in the vicinity of Whitings in New Jersey.
His types agree with the description given above. Others were gathered by him at Brown's Mills
in the pinelands, New Jersey, where they grew in almost pure sand in the bright sunlight. He
observed still other differentiating characters. The amount of seed [56] produced and the time
of flowering were variable to a remarkable degree.

Dr. Harshberger had the kindness to send me some dried specimens of the most interesting of
these types. They show that the peculiarities are individual, and that each specimen has its
own characters. It is very probable that a comparative experimental study will prove the existence
of a large number of elementary species, differing in many points; they will probably also
show differences in the amount of the active chemical substances, especially of emetine, which
is usually recorded as present in about 1%, but which will undoubtedly be found in larger quantities
in some, and in smaller quantities in other elementary species. In this way the close and careful
distinction of the really existing units might perhaps prove of practical importance.

MacFarlane has studied the beach-plum or Prunus maritima, which is abundant along the coast
regions of the Eastern States from Virginia to New Brunswick. It often covers areas from two
to two hundred acres in extent, sometimes to the exclusion of other plants. It is most prolific
on soft drifting sand near the sea or along the shore, where it may at times be washed with
ocean-spray. The fruit usually become ripe about the middle of August, and show extreme [57]
variations in size, shape, color, taste, consistency and maturation period, indicating the
existence of separate races or elementary species, with widely differing qualities. The earlier
varieties begin to ripen from August 10 to 20, and a continuous supply can be had till September
10, while a few good varieties continue to ripen till September 20. But even late in October
some other types are still found maturing their fruits.

Exact studies were made of fruit and stone variations, and their characteristics as to color,
weight, size, shape and consistency were fully described. Similar variations have been observed,
as is well known, in the cultivated plums. Fine blue-black fruits were seen on some shrubs
and purplish or yellow fruits on others. Some exhibit a firmer texture and others a more watery
pulp. Even the stones show differences which are suggestive of distinct races.

Recently Mr. Luther Burbank of Santa Rosa, California, has made use of the beach-plum to produce
useful new varieties. He observed that it is a very hardy species, and never fails to bear,
growing under the most trying conditions of dry and sandy, or of rocky and even of heavy soil.
The fruits of the wild shrubs are utterly worthless for anything but preserving. [58] But by
means of crossing with other species and especially with the Japanese plums, the hardy qualities
of the beach-plum have been united with the size, flavor and other valuable qualities of the
fruit, and a group of new plums have been produced with bright colors, ovoid and globular forms
which are never flattened and have no suture. The experiments were not finished, when I visited
Mr. Burbank in July, 1904, and still more startling improvements were said to have been secured.

I may perhaps be allowed to avail myself of this opportunity to point out a practical side
of the study of elementary species. This always appears whenever wild plants are subjected
to cultivation, either in order to reproduce them as pure strains, or to cross them with other
already cultivated species. The latter practice is as a rule made use of whenever a wild species
is found to be in possession of some quality which is considered as desirable for the cultivated
forms. In the case of the beach-plum it is the hardiness and the great abundance of fruits
of the wild species which might profitably be combined with the recognized qualities of the
ordinary plums. Now it is manifest, that in order to make crosses, distinct individual plants
are to be chosen, and that the variability of the wild species may be of very great importance.
[59] Among the range of elementary species those should be used which not only possess the
desired advantages in the highest degree, but which promise the best results in other respects
or their earliest attainment. The fuller our knowledge of the elementary species constituting
the systematic groups, the easier and the more reliable will be the choice for the breeder.
Many Californian wild flowers with bright colors seem to consist of large numbers of constant
elementary forms, as for instance, the lilies, godetias, eschscholtias and others. They have
been brought into cultivation many times, but the minutest distinction of their elementary
forms is required to attain the highest success.

In concluding, I will point out a very interesting difficulty, which in some cases impedes
the clear understanding of elementary species. It is the lack of self-fertilization. It occurs
in widely distant families, but has a special interest for us in two genera, which are generally
known as very polymorphous groups.

One of them is the hawkweed or Hieracium, and the other is the dandelion or Taraxacum officinale.
Hawkweeds are known as a genus in which the delimitation of the species is almost impossible,
Thousands of forms may be cultivated side by side in botanical gardens, exhibiting [60] slight
but undoubted differentiating features, and reproduce themselves truly by seed. Descriptions
were formerly difficult and so complicated that the ablest writers on this genus, Fries and
Nageli are said not to have been able to recognize the separate species by the descriptions
given by each other. Are these types to be considered as elementary species, or only as individual
differences? The decision of course, would depend upon their behavior in cultures. Such tests
have been made by various experimenters. In the dandelion the bracts of the involucre give
the best characters. The inner ones may be linear or linear-lanceolate, with or without appendages
below the tip; the outer ones may be similar and only shorter, or noticeably larger, erect,
spreading or even reflexed, and the color of the involucre may be a pure green or glaucous;
the leaves may be nearly entire or pinnatifid, or sinuate-dentate, or very deeply runcinate-pinnatifid,
or even pinnately divided, the whole plant being more or less glabrous.

Raunkiaer, who has studied experimentally a dozen types from Denmark, found them constant,
but observed that some of them have no pollen at all, while in others the pollen, though present,
is impotent. It does not germinate on the stigma, cannot produce the ordinary tube, [61] and
hence has no fertilizing power. But the young ovaries do not need such fertilization. They
are sufficient unto themselves. One may cut off all the flowers of a head before the opening
of the anthers, and leave the ovaries untouched, and the head will ripen its seeds quite as
well. The same thing occurs in the hawkweeds. Here, therefore, we have no fertilization and
the extensive widening of the variability, which generally accompanies this process is, of
course, wanting. Only partial or vegetative variability is present. Unfertilized eggs when
developing into embryos are equivalent to buds, separated from the parent-plant and planted
for themselves. They repeat both the specific and the individual characters of the parent.
In the case of the hawkweed and the dandelion there is at present no means of distinguishing
between these two contrasting causes of variability. But like the garden varieties which are
always propagated in the vegetative way, their constancy and uniformity are only apparent and
afford no real indication of hereditary qualities.

In addition to these and other exceptional cases, seed-cultures are henceforth to be considered
as the sole means of recognizing the really existing systematic units of nature. All other
groups, including systematic species and [62] genera, are equally artificial or conventional.
In other words we may state "that current misconceptions as to the extreme range of fluctuating
variability of many native species have generally arisen from a failure to recognize the composite
nature of the forms in question," as has been demonstrated by MacDougal in the case of the
common evening-primrose, Oenothera biennis. "It is evident that to study the behavior of the
characters of plants we must have them in their simplest combinations; to investigate the origin
and movements of species we must deal with them singly and uncomplicated."

[63]

LECTURE III

ELEMENTARY SPECIES OF CULTIVATED PLANTS

Recalling the results of the last lecture, we see that the species of the systematists are
not in reality units, though in the ordinary course of floristic studies they may, as a rule,
seem to be so. In some cases representatives of the same species from different countries or
regions, when compared with one another do not exactly agree. Many species of ferns afford
instances of this rule, and Lindley and other great systematists have frequently been puzzled
by the wide range of differences between the individuals of a single species.

In other cases the differing forms are observed to grow near each other, sometimes in neighboring
provinces, sometimes in the same locality, growing and flowering in mixtures of two or three
or even more elementary types. The violets exhibit widespread ancient types, from which the
local species may be taken to have arisen. The common ancestors of the Whitlow-grasses are
probably not to be found [64] among existing forms, but numerous types are crowded together
in the southern part of central Europe and more thinly scattered elsewhere, even as far as
western Asia. There can be little doubt that their common origin is to be sought in the center
of their geographic distribution.

Numerous other cases exhibit smaller numbers of elementary units within a systematic species;
in fact purely uniform species seem to be relatively rare. But with small numbers there are
of course no indications to be expected concerning their common origin or the starting point
of their distribution.

It is manifest that these experiences with wild species must find a parallel among cultivated
plants. Of course cultivated plants were originally wild and must have come under the general
law. Hence we may conclude that when first observed and taken up by man, they must already
have consisted of sundry elementary subspecies. And we may confidently assert that some must
have been rich and others poor in such types.

Granting this state of things as the only probable one, we can easily imagine what must have
been the consequences. If a wild species had been taken into cultivation only once, the cultivated
form would have been a single elementary [65] type. But it is not very likely that such partiality
would occur often. The conception that different tribes at different times and in distant countries
would have used the wild plants of their native regions seems far more natural than that all
should have obtained plants for cultivation from the same source or locality. If this theory
may be relied upon, the origin of many of the more widely cultivated agricultural plants must
have been multiple, and the number of the original elementary species of the cultivated types
must have been so much the larger, the more widely distributed and variable the plants under
consideration were before the first period of cultivation.

Further it would seem only natural to explain the wide variability of many of our larger agricultural
and horticultural stocks by such an incipient multiformity of the species themselves. Through
commercial intercourse the various types might have become mixed so as to make it quite impossible
to point out the native localities for each of them.

Unfortunately historical evidence on this point is almost wholly lacking. The differences in
question could not have been appreciated at that remote period, and interest the common observer
but little even today. The history of most of the cultivated plants is very obscure, [66] and
even the most skillful historians, by sifting the evidence afforded by the older writers, and
that obtained by comparative linguistic investigations have been able to do little more than
frame the most general outline of the cultural history of the most common and most widely used
plants.

Some authors assume that cultivation itself might have been the principal cause of variability,
but it is not proved, nor even probable, that cultivated plants are intrinsically more variable
than their wild prototypes. Appearances in this case are very deceptive. Of course widely distributed
plants are as a rule richer in subspecies than forms with limited distribution, and the former
must have had a better chance to be taken into cultivation than the latter. In many cases,
especially with the more recent cultivated species, man has deliberately chosen variable forms,
because of their greater promise. Thirdly, wide variability is the most efficient means of
acclimatization, and only species with many elementary units would have offered the adequate
material for introduction into new countries.

From this discussion it would seem that it is more reasonable to assert that variability is
one of the causes of the success of cultivation, than to assume that cultivation is a cause
of variability [67] at large. And this assumption would be equally sufficient to explain the
existing conditions among cultivated plants.

Of course I do not pretend to say that cultivated plants should be expected to be less variable
than in the wild state, or that swarms of elementary species might not be produced during cultivation
quite as well as before. However the chance of such an event, as is easily seen, cannot be
very great, and we shall have to be content with a few examples of which the coconut is a notable
one.

Leaving this general discussion of the subject, we may take up the example of the beets. The
sugar-beet is only one type from among a horde of others, and though the origin of all the
single types is not historically known, the plant is frequently found in the wild state even
at the present time, and the native types may be compared with the corresponding cultivated
varieties.

The cultivation of beets for sugar is not of very ancient date. The Romans knew the beets and
used them as vegetables, both the roots and the leaves. They distinguished a variety with white
and one with red flesh, but whether they cultivated them, or only collected them from where
they grew spontaneously, appears to be unknown.

[68] Beets are even now found in large quantities along the shores of Italy. They prefer the
vicinity of the sea, as do so many other members of the beet family, and are not limited to
Italy, but are found growing elsewhere on the littoral of the Mediterranean, in the Canary
Islands and through Persia and Babylonia to India. In most of their native localities they
occur in great abundance.

The color of the foliage and the size of the roots are extremely variable. Some have red leafstalks
and veins, others a uniform red or green foliage, some have red or white or yellow roots, or
exhibit alternating rings of a red and of a white tinge on cut surfaces. It seems only natural
to consider the white and the red, and even the variegated types as distinct varieties, which
in nature do not transgress their limits nor change into one another. In a subsequent lecture
I will show that this at least is the rule with the corresponding color-varieties in other genera.

The fleshiness or pulpiness of the roots is still more variable. Some are as thick as the arm
and edible, others are not thicker than a finger and of a woody composition, and the structure
of this woody variety is very interesting. The sugar-beet consists, as is generally known,
of concentric layers of sugar-tissue and of vascular [69] strands; the larger the first and
the smaller the latter, the greater is, as a rule, the average amount of sugar of the race.
Through the kindness of the late Mr. Rimpau, a well known German breeder of sugar-beet varieties,
I obtained specimens from seed of a native wild locality near Bukharest. The plants produced
quite woody roots, showing almost no sugar tissue at all. Woody layers of strongly developed
fibrovascular strands were seen to be separated one from another only by very thin layers of
parenchymatous cells. Even the number of layers is variable; it was observed to be five in
my plants; but in larger roots double this number and even more may easily be met with.

Some authors have distinguished specific types among these wild forms. While the cultivated
beets are collected under the head of Beta vulgaris, separate types with more or less woody
roots have been described as Beta maritima and Beta patula. These show differences in the habit
of the stems and the foliage. Some have a strong tendency to become annual, others to become
biennial. The first of course do not store a large quantity of food in their roots, and remain
thin, even at the time of flowering. The biennial types occur in all sizes of roots. In the
annuals the stems may vary from [70] erect to ascending, and the name patula indicates stems
which are densely branching from the base with widely spreading branches throughout. Mr. Em.
von Proskowetz of Kwassitz, Austria, kindly sent me seeds of this Beta patula, the variability
of which was so great in my cultures as to range from nearly typical sugar-beets to the thin
woody type of Bukharest.

Broad and narrow leaves are considered to be differentiating marks between Beta vulgaris and
Beta patula, but even here a wide range of forms seem to occur.

Rimpau, Proskowetz, Schindler and others have made cultures of beets from wild localities in
order to discover a hypothetical common ancestor of all the present cultivated types. These
researches point to the B. patula as the probable ancestor, but of course they were not made
to decide the question as to whether the origination of the several now existing types had
taken place before or during culture. From a general point of view the variability of the wild
species is parallel to that of the cultivated forms to such a degree as to suggest the multiple
origin of the former. But a close investigation of this highly important problem has still
to be made.

The varieties of the cultivated beets are commonly [71] included in four subspecies. The two
smallest are the salad-beets and the ornamental forms, the first being used as food, and ordinarily
cultivated in red varieties, the second being used as ornamental plants during the fall, when
they fill the beds left empty by summer flowers, with a bright foliage that is exceedingly
rich in form and color. Of the remaining subspecies, one comprises the numerous sorts cultivated
as forage-crops and the other the true sugar-beets. Both of them vary widely as to the shape
and the size of the roots, the quality of the tissue, the foliage and other characteristics.

Some of these forms, no doubt, have originated during culture. Most of them have been improved
by selection, and no beet found in the wild state ever rivals any cultivated variety. But the
improvement chiefly affects the size, the amount of sugar and nutrient substances and some
other qualities which recur in most of the varieties. The varietal attributes themselves however,
are more or less of a specific nature, and have no relation to the real industrial value of
the race. The short-rooted and the horn-shaped varieties might best be cited as examples.

The assertion that the sundry varieties of forage-beets are not the result of artificial selection,
[72] is supported in a large measure by the historic fact that the most of them are far older
than the method of conscious selection of plants itself. This method is due to Louis Vilmorin
and dates from the middle of the last century. But in the sixteenth century most of our present
varieties of beets were already in cultivation. Caspar Bauhin gives a list of the beets of
his time and it is not difficult to recognize in it a large series of subspecies and varieties
and even of special forms, which are still cultivated. A more complete list was published towards
the close of the same century by Olivier de Serres in his world-renowned "Theatre d'Agriculture"
(Paris, 1600).

The red forage-beets which are now cultivated on so large a scale, had been introduced from
Italy into France only a short time before.

From this historic evidence, the period during which the beets were cultivated from the time
of the Romans or perhaps much later, up to the time of Bauhin and De Serres, would seem far
too short for the production by the unguided selection of man of all the now existing types.
On the other hand, the parallelism between the characters of some wild and some cultivated
varieties goes to make it very probable that other varieties have been found in the same way,
some in this country and others in that, [73] and have been taken into cultivation separately.
Afterwards of course all must have been improved in the direction required by the needs of man.

Quite the same conclusion is afforded by apples. The facts are to some extent of another character,
and the rule of the derivation of the present cultivated varieties from original wild forms
can be illustrated in this case in a more direct way. Of course we must limit ourselves to
the varieties of pure ancestry and leave aside all those which are of hybrid or presumably
hybrid origin.

Before considering their present state of culture, something must be, said about the earlier
history and the wild state of the apples.

The apple-tree is a common shrub in woods throughout all parts of Europe, with the only exception
of the extreme north. Its distribution extends to Anatolia, the Caucasus and Ghilan in Persia.
It is found in nearly all forests of any extent and often in relatively large numbers of individuals.
It exhibits varietal characters, which have led to the recognition of several spontaneous forms,
especially in France and in Germany.

The differentiating qualities relate to the shape and indumentum of the leaves. Nothing is
known botanically as to differences between [74] the fruits of these varieties, but as a matter
of fact the wild apples of different countries are not at all the same.

Alphonse De Candolle, who made a profound study of the probable origin of most of our cultivated
plants, comes to the conclusion that the apple tree must have had this wide distribution in
prehistoric times, and that its cultivation began in ancient times everywhere.

This very important conclusion by so high an authority throws considerable light on the relation
between cultivated and wild varieties at large. If the historic facts go to prove a multiple
origin for the cultivation of some of the more important useful plants, the probability that
different varieties or elementary species have been the starting points for different lines
of culture, evidently becomes stronger.

Unfortunately, this historic evidence is scanty. The most interesting facts are those concerning
the use of apples by the Romans and by their contemporaries of the Swiss and middle European
lake-dwellings. Oswald Heer has collected large numbers of the relics of this prehistoric period.
Apples were found in large quantities, ordinarily cut into halves and with the signs of having
been dried. Heer distinguished two varieties, one with large and one with small fruits. The
first about 3 and [75] the other about 1.5-2 cm. in diameter. Both are therefore very small
compared with our present ordinary varieties, but of the same general size as the wild forms
of the present day. Like these, they must have been of a more woody and less fleshy tissue.
They would scarcely have been tasteful to us, but in ancient times no better varieties were
known and therefore no comparison was possible.

There is no evidence concerning the question, as to whether during the periods mentioned apples
were cultivated or only collected in the wild state. The very large numbers which are found,
have induced some writers to believe in their culture, but then there is no reason why they
should not have been collected in quantity from wild shrubs. The main fact is that the apple
was not a uniform species in prehistoric times but showed even then at least some amount of
variability.

At the present day the wild apples are very rich in elementary species. Those of Versailles
are not the same as those of Belgium, and still others are growing in England and in Germany.
The botanical differences derived from the blossoms and the leaves are slight, but the flavor,
size and shape of the fruits diverge widely. Two opinions have been advanced to explain this
high degree of variability, but [76] neither of them conveys a real explanation; their aim
is chiefly to support different views as to the causes of variability, and the origin of elementary
species at large.

One opinion, advocated by De Candolle, Darwin and others, claims that the varieties owe their
origin to the direct influence of cultivation, and that the corresponding forms found in the
wild state, are not at all original, but have escaped from cultivation and apparently become
wild. Of course this possibility cannot be denied, at least in any single instance, but it
seems too sweeping an assertion to make for the whole range of observed forms.

The alternative theory is that of van Mons, the Belgian originator of commercial varieties
of apples, who has published his experiments in a large work called "Arbres fruitiers ou Pomonomie
belge." Most of the more remarkable apples of the first half of the last century were produced
by van Mons, but his greatest merit is not the direct production of a number of good varieties,
but the foundation of the method, by which new varieties may be obtained and improved.

According to van Mons, the production of a new variety consists chiefly of two parts. The first
is the discovery of a subspecies with new desirable qualities. The second is the transformation
[77] of the original small and woody apple into a large, fleshy and palatable variety. Subspecies,
or what we now call elementary species were not produced by man; nature alone creates new forms,
as van Mons has it. He examined with great care the wild apples of his country, and especially
those of the Ardennes, and found among them a number of species with different flavors. For
the flavor is the one great point, which must be found ready in nature and which may be improved,
but can never be created by artificial selection. The numerous differences in flavor are quite
original; all of them may be found in the wild state and most of them even in so limited a
region as the Ardennes Mountains. Of course van Mons preferred not to start from the wild types
themselves, when the same flavor could be met with in some cultivated variety. His general
method was, to search for a new flavor and to try to bring the bearer of it up to the desired
standard of size and edibility.

The latter improvement, though it always makes the impression of an achievement, is only the
last stone to be added to the building up of the commercial value of the variety. Without it,
the best flavored apple remains a crab; with it, it becomes a conquest. According to the method
of van Mons it may be reached within [78] two or three generations, and a man's life is wholly
sufficient to produce in this way many new types of the very best sorts, as van Mons himself
has done. It is done in the usual way, sowing on a large scale and selecting the best, which
are in their turn brought to an early maturation of their fruit by grafting, because thereby
the life from seed to seed may be reduced to a few years.

Form, taste, color, flavor and other valuable marks of new varieties are the products of nature,
says van Mons, only texture, fleshiness and size are added by man. And this is done in each
new variety by the same method and according to the same laws. The richness of the cultivated
apples of the present day was already present in the large range of original wild elementary
species, though unobserved and requiring improvement.

An interesting proof of this principle is afforded by the experience of Mr. Peter M. Gideon,
as related by Bailey. Gideon sowed large quantities of apple-seeds, and one seed produced a
new and valuable variety called by him the "Wealthy" apple. He first planted a bushel of apple-seeds,
and then every year, for nine years, planted enough seeds to produce a thousand trees. At the
end of ten years all seedlings had perished except one hardy seedling [79] crab. This experiment
was made in Minnesota, and failed wholly. Then he bought a small lot of seeds of apples and
crab-apples in Maine and from these the "Wealthy" came. There were only about fifty seeds in
the lot of crab-apple seed which produced the "Wealthy," but before this variety was obtained,
more than a bushel of seed had been sown. Chance afforded a species with an unknown taste;
but the growing of many thousands of seedlings of known varieties was not the best means to
get something really new.

Pears are more difficult to improve than apples. They often require six or more generations
to be brought from the wild woody state to the ordinary edible condition. But the varieties
each seem to have a separate origin, as with apples, and the wide range of form and of taste
must have been present in the wild state, long before cultivation. Only recently has the improvement
of cherries, plums, currants and gooseberries been undertaken with success by Mr. Burbank,
and the difference between the wild and cultivated forms has hitherto been very small. All
indications point to the existence, before the era of cultivation, of larger or smaller numbers
of elementary species.

The same holds good with many of the larger forage crops and other plants of great industrial
[80] value. Clover exhibits many varieties, which have been cultivated indiscriminately, and
often in motley mixtures. The flower heads may be red or white, large or small, cylindric or
rounded, the leaves are broader or narrower, with or without white spots of a curious pattern.
They may be more or less hairy and so forth. Even the seeds exhibit differences in size, shape
or color, and of late Martinet has shown, that by the simple means of picking out seeds of
the same pattern, pure strains of clover may be obtained, which are of varying cultural value.
In this way the best subspecies or varieties may be sought out for separate cultivation. Even
the white spots on the leaflets have proved to be constant characters corresponding with noticeable
differences in yield.

Flax is another instance. It was already cultivated, or at least made use of during the period
of the lake-dwellers, but at that time it was a species referred to as Linum angustifolium,
and not the Linum usitatissimum, which is our present day flax. There are now many subspecies,
elementary species, and varieties under cultivation. The oldest of them is known as the "springing
flax," in opposition to the ordinary "threshing flax." It has capsules which open of themselves,
in order to disseminate the seeds, while the ordinary heads of the [81] flax remain closed
until the seeds are liberated by threshing. It seems probable that the first form or Linum
crepitans might thrive in the wild state as well as any other plant, while in the common species
those qualities are lacking which are required for a normal dissemination of the seeds. White
or blue flowers, high or dwarf stems, more or less branching at the base and sundry other qualities
distinguish the varieties, aside from the special industrial difference of the fibres. Even
the life-history varies from annual and biennial, to perennial.

It would take us too long to consider other instances. It is well known that corn, though considered
as a single botanical species, is represented by different subspecies and varieties in nearly
every region in which it is grown. Of course its history is unknown and it is impossible to
decide whether all the tall and dwarf forms, or starchy and sweet varieties, dented or rounded
kernels, and hundreds of others are older than culture or have come into existence during historic
times, or as some assume, through the agency of man. But our main point now is not the origin,
but only the existence of constant and sharply differentiated forms within botanical species.
Nearly every cultivated plant affords instances of such diversity. Some include a few types
only, while [82] others show, a large number of forms clearly separated to a greater or lesser
degree.

In some few instances it is obvious that this variability is of later date than culture. The
most conspicuous case is that of the coconut. This valuable palm is found on nearly all tropical
coasts, in America, as well as in Asia, but in Africa and Australia there are many hundreds
of miles of shore line, where it is not found. Its importance is not at all the same everywhere.
On the shores and islands of the Indian Ocean and the Malay Archipelago, man is chiefly dependent
upon it, but in America it is only of subordinate usefulness.

In connection with these facts, it abounds in subspecies and varieties in the East Indian regions,
but on the continent of America little attention has as yet been given to its diverging qualities.
In the Malayan region it affords nearly all that is required by the inhabitants. The value
of its fruit as food, and the delicious beverage which it yields, are well known. The fibrous
rind is not less useful; it is manufactured into a kind of cordage, mats and floor-cloths.
An excellent oil is obtained from the kernel by compression. Finally the unexpanded terminal
bud is a delicate article of food. Many other uses could be mentioned, but these may suffice
to indicate how closely the life of the inhabitants is bound up with the culture of this palm,
and how sharply, in consequence, its qualities must have been watched by early man. Any divergence
from the ordinary type must have been noted; those which were injurious must have been rejected,
but the useful ones must have been appreciated and propagated. In a word any degree of variability
afforded by nature must have been noticed and cultivated.

More than fifty different sorts of the coconut are described from the Indian shores and islands,
with distinct local and botanical names. Miquel, who was one of the best systematists of tropical
plants, of the last century, described a large number of them, and since, more have been added.
Nearly all useful qualities vary in a higher or lesser degree in the different varieties. The
fibrous strands of the rind of the nut are developed in some forms to such a length and strength
as to yield the industrial product known as the coir-fibre. Only three of them are mentioned
by Miquel that have this quality, the Cocos nucifera rutila, cupuliformis and stupposa. Among
them the rutila [84] yields the best and most supple fibres, while those of the stupposa are
stiff and almost unbending.

The varieties also differ greatly in size, color, shape and quality, and the trees have also
peculiar characteristics. One variety exhibits leaves which are nearly entire, the divisions
being only imperfectly separated, as often occurs in the very first leaves of the seedlings
of other varieties. The flavor of the flesh, oil and milk likewise yield many good varietal marks.

In short, the coconut-palm comes under the general rule, that botanical species are built up
of a number of sharply distinguishable types, which prove their constancy and relative independence
by their wide distribution in culture. In systematic works all these forms are called varieties,
and a closer investigation of their real systematic value has not yet been made. But the question
as to the origin of the varieties and of the coconut itself has engrossed the attention of
many botanists, among whom are De Candolle in the middle of the last century, and Cook at its
close.

Both questions are closely connected. De Candolle claimed an Asiatic origin for the whole species,
while Cook's studies go to prove that its original habitat is to be sought in the northern
countries of South America. Numerous [85] varieties are growing in Asia and have as yet not
been observed to occur in America, where the coconut is only of subordinate importance, being
one of many useful plants, and not the only one relied upon by the natives for their subsistence.
If therefore, De Candolle's opinion is the right one, the question as to whether the varieties
are older or younger than the cultivated forms of the species, must always remain obscure.
But if the proofs of an American origin should be forthcoming, the possibility, and even the
probability that the varieties are of later date than the beginning of their culture, and have
originated while in this condition must at once be granted. An important point in the controversy
is the manner in which the coconuts were disseminated from shore to shore, from island to island.
De Candolle, Darwin and most of the European writers claim that the dispersal was by natural
agencies, such as ocean-currents. They point out that the fibrous rind or husk would keep the
fruits afloat, and uninjured, for many days or even many weeks, while being carried from one
country to another in a manner that would explain their geographic distribution. But the probability
of the nuts being thrown upon the strand, and far enough from the shore to find suitable conditions
for their germination, is a very small one. To insure [86] healthy and vigorous seedlings the
nuts must be fully ripe, after which planting cannot be safely delayed for more than a few
weeks. If kept too moist the nuts rot. If once on the shore, and allowed to lie in the sun,
they become overheated and are thereby destroyed; if thrown in the shade of other shrubs and
trees, the seedlings do not find the required conditions for a vigorous growth.

Some authors have taken the fibrous rind to be especially adapted to transport by sea, but
if this were so, this would argue that water is the normal or at least the very frequent medium
of dissemination, which of course it is not. We may, claim with quite as much right that the
thick husk is necessary to enable the heavy fruit to drop from tall trees with safety. But
even for this purpose the protection is not sufficient, as the nuts often suffer from falling
to such a degree as to be badly injured as to their germinating qualities. It is well known
that nuts, which are destined for propagation, are as a rule not allowed to fall off, but are
taken from the trees with great care.

Summing up his arguments, Cook concludes that there is little in the way of known facts to
support the poetic theory of the coconut palm dropping its fruits into the sea to float away
to barren islands and prepare them for [87] human habitation. Shipwrecks might furnish a successful
method of launching viable coconuts, and such have no doubt sometimes contributed to their
distribution. But this assumption implies a dissemination of the nuts by man, and if this principal
fact is granted, it is far more natural to believe in a conscious intelligent dissemination.

The coconut is a cultivated tree. It may be met with in some spots distant from human dwellings,
but whenever such cases have been subjected to a closer scrutiny, it appears that evidently,
or at least probably, huts had formerly existed in their neighborhood, but having been destroyed
by some accident, had left the palm trees uninjured. Even in South America, where it may be
found in forests at great distances from the sea-shore, it is not at all certain that true
native localities occur, and it seems to be quite lost in its natural condition.

Granting the cultivated state of the palms as the only really important one, and considering
the impossibility or at least great improbability of its dissemination by natural means, the
distribution by man himself, according to his wants, assumes the rank of an hypothesis fully
adequate to the explanation of all the facts concerning the life-history of the tree.

We now have to inquire into the main question, [88] whether it is probable that the coconut
is of American or of Asiatic origin, leaving aside the historic evidence which goes to prove
that nothing is known about the period in which its dissemination from one hemisphere to another
took place, we will now consider only the botanic and geographic evidence, brought forward
by Cook. He states that the whole family of coconut-palms, consisting of about 20 genera and
200 species, are all strictly American with the exception of the rather aberrant African oilpalm,
which has, however, an American relative referred to the same genus. The coconut is the sole
representative of this group which is connected with Asia and the Malayan region, but there
is no manifest reason why other members of the same group could not have established themselves
there, and maintained an existence under conditions, which are not at all unfavorable to them.
The only obvious reason is the assumption already made, that the distribution was brought about
by man, and thus only affected the species, chosen by him for cultivation. That the coconut
cannot have been imported from Asia into America seems to be the most obvious conclusion from
the arguments given. It should be briefly noted, that it was known and widely distributed in
tropical America at the time of the discovery of that continent [89] by Columbus, according
to accounts of Oviedo and other contemporary Spanish writers.

Concluding we may state that according to the whole evidence as it has been discussed by De
Candolle and especially by Cook, the coconut-palm is of American origin and has been distributed
as a cultivated tree by man through the whole of its wide range. This must have happened in
a prehistoric era, thus affording time enough for the subsequent development of the fifty and
more known varieties. But the possibility that at least some of them have originated before
culture and have been deliberately chosen by man for distribution, of course remains unsettled.

Coconuts are not very well adapted for natural dispersal on land, and this would rather induce
us to suppose an origin within the period of cultivation for the whole group. There are a large
number of cultivated varieties of different species which by some peculiarity do not seem adapted
for the conditions of life in the wild state. These last have often been used to prove the
origin of varietal forms during culture. One of the oldest instances is the variety or rather
subspecies of the opium-poppy, which lacks the ability to burst open its capsules. The seeds,
which are thrown out by the wind, in the common forms, through the apertures underneath [90]
the stigma, remain enclosed. This is manifestly a very useful adaptation for a cultivated plant,
as by this means no seeds are lost. It would be quite a disadvantage for a wild species, and
is therefore claimed to have been connected from the beginning with the cultivated form.

The large kernels of corn and grain, of beans and peas, and even of the lupines were considered
by Darwin and others to be unable to cope with natural conditions of life. Many valuable fruits
are quite sterile, or produce extremely few seeds. This is notoriously the case with some of
the best pears and grapes, with the pine-apples, bananas, bread-fruits, pomegranate and some
members of the orange tribe. It is open to discussion as to what may be the immediate cause
of this sterility, but it is quite evident, that all such sterile varieties must have originated
in a cultivated condition. Otherwise they would surely have been lost.

In horticulture and agriculture the fact that new varieties arise from time to time is beyond
all doubt, and it is not this question with which we are now concerned. Our arguments were
only intended to prove that cultivated species, as a rule, are derived from wild species, which
obey the laws discussed in a previous lecture. The botanic units are compound entities, and
[91] the real systematic units in elementary species play the same part as in ordinary wild
species. The inference that the origin of the cultivated plants is multiple, in most cases,
and that more than one, often many separate elementary forms of the same species must originally
have been taken into cultivation, throws much light upon many highly important problems of
cultivation and selection. This aspect of the question will therefore be the subject of the
next lecture.

[92]

LECTURE IV

SELECTION OF ELEMENTARY SPECIES

The improvement of cultivated plants must obviously begin with already existing forms. This
is true of old cultivated sorts as well as for recent introductions. In either case the starting-point
is as important as the improvement, or rather the results depend in a far higher degree on
the adequate choice of the initial material than on the methodical and careful treatment of
the chosen varieties. This however, has not always been appreciated as it deserves, nor is
its importance at present universally recognized. The method of selecting plants for the improvement
of the race was discovered by Louis Vilmorin about the middle of the last century. Before his
time selection was applied to domestic animals, but Vilmorin was the first to apply this principle
to plants. As is well known, he used this method to increase the amount of sugar in beets and
thus to raise their value as forage-crops, with such success, that his plants have since been
used for the production [93] of sugar. He must have made some choice among the numerous available
sorts of beets, or chance must have placed in his hands one of the most appropriate forms.
On this point however, no evidence is at hand.

Since the work of Vilmorin the selection-principle has increased enormously in importance,
for practical purposes as well as for the theoretical aspect of the subject. It is now being
applied on a large scale to nearly all ornamental plants. It is the one great principle now
in universal practice as well as one of preeminent scientific value. Of course, the main arguments
of the evolution theory rest upon morphologic, systematic, geographic and paleontologic evidence.
But the question as to how we can coordinate the relation between existing species and their
supposed ancestors is of course one of a physiologic nature. Direct observation or experiments
were not available for Darwin and so he found himself constrained to make use of the experience
of breeders. This he did on a broad scale, and with such success that it was precisely this
side of his arguments that played the major part in convincing his contemporaries.

The work of the breeders previous to Darwin's time had not been very critically performed.
Recent analyses of the evidence obtained [94] from them show that numerous types of variability
were usually thrown together. What type in each case afforded the material, which the breeder
in reality made use of, has only been inquired into in the last few decades. Among those who
have opened the way for thorough and more scientific treatment are to be mentioned Rimpau and
Von Rumker of Germany and W.M. Hays of America.

Von Rumker is to be considered as the first writer, who sharply distinguished between two phases
of methodical breeding-selection. One side he calls the production of new forms, the other
the improvement of the breed. He dealt with both methods extensively. New forms are considered
as spontaneous variations occurring or originating without human aid. They have only to be
selected and isolated, and their progeny at once yields a constant and pure race. This race
retains its character as long as it is protected against the admixture of other minor varieties,
either by cross-pollination, or by accidental seeds.

Improvement, on the other hand, is the work of man. New varieties of course can only be isolated
if chance offers them; the improvement is not incumbent on chance. It does not create really
anything new, but develops characters, which were already existing. It brings [95] the race
above its average, and must guard constantly against the regression towards this average which
usually takes place.

Hays has repeatedly insisted upon the principle of the choice of the most favorable varieties
as the foundation for all experiments in improving races. He asserts that half the battle is
won by choosing the variety which is to serve as a foundation stock, while the other half depends
upon the selection of parent-plants within the chosen variety. Thus the choice of the variety
is the first principle to be applied in every single case; the so-called artificial selection
takes only a secondary place. Calling all minor units within the botanic species by the common
name of varieties, without regard to the distinction between elementary species and retrograde
varieties, the principle is designated by the term of "variety-testing." This testing of varieties
is now, as is universally known, one of the most important lines of work of the agricultural
experiment stations. Every state and every region, in some instances even the larger farms,
require a separate variety of corn, or wheat, or other crops. They must be segregated from
among the hundreds of generally cultivated forms, within each single botanic species. Once
found, the type may be ameliorated according to the local conditions [96] and needs, and this
is a question of improvement.

The fact that our cultivated plants are commonly mixtures of different sorts, has not always
been known. The first to recognize it seems to have been the Spanish professor of botany, Mariano
Lagasca, who published a number of Spanish papers dealing with useful plants and botanical
subjects between 1810 and 1830, among them a catalogue of plants cultivated in the Madrid Botanical
Garden. Once when he was on a visit to Colonel Le Couteur on his farm in Jersey, one of the
Channel Islands off the coast of France, in discussing the value of the fields of wheat, he
pointed out to his host, that they were not really pure and uniform, as was thought at that
time, and suggested the idea that some of the constituents might form a larger part in the
harvest than others. In a single field he succeeded in distinguishing no less than 23 varieties,
all growing together. Colonel Le Couteur took the hint, and saved the seeds of a single plant
of each supposed variety separately. These he cultivated and multiplied till he got large lots
of each and could compare their value. From among them he then chose the variety producing
the greatest amount of the finest, whitest and most nutritious flour. This he eventually placed
in the [97] market under the name of "Talavera de Bellevue." It is a tall, white variety, with
long and slender white heads, almost without awns, and with fine white pointed kernels. It
was introduced into commerce about 1830, and is still one of the most generally cultivated
French wheats. It was highly prized in the magnificent collection of drawings and descriptions
of wheats, published by Vilmorin under the title "Les meilleurs bles" and is said to have quite
a number of valuable qualities, branching freely and producing an abundance of good grain and
straw. It is however, sensitive to cold winters in some degree and thereby limited in its distribution.
Hallett, the celebrated English wheat-breeder, tried in vain to improve the peculiar qualities
of this valuable production of Le Couteur's.

Le Couteur worked during many years along this line, long before the time when Vilmorin conceived
the idea of improvement by race selections, and he used only the simple principle of distinguishing
and isolating the members of his different fields. Later he published his results in a work
on the varieties, peculiarities and classification of wheat (1843), which though now very rare,
has been the basis and origin of the principle of variety-testing.

The discovery of Lagasca and Le Couteur was [98] of course not applicable to the wheat of Jersey
alone. The common cultivated sorts of wheat and other grains were mixtures then as they are
even now. Improved varieties are, or at least should be, in most cases pure and uniform, but
ordinary sorts, as a rule, are mixtures. Wheat, barley and oats are self-fertile and do not
mix in the field through cross-pollination. Every member of the assemblage propagates itself,
and is only checked by its own greater or less adaptation to the given conditions of life.
Rimpau has dealt at large with the phenomenon as it occurs in the northern and middle parts
of Germany. Even Rivett's "Bearded wheat," which was introduced from England as a fine improved
variety, and has become widely distributed throughout Germany, cannot keep itself pure. It
is found mingled almost anywhere with the old local varieties, which it was destined to supplant.
Any lot of seed exhibits such impurities, as I have had the opportunity of observing myself
in sowings in the experimental-garden. But the impurities are only mixtures, and all the plants
of Rivett's "Bearded wheat," which of course constitute the large majority, are of pure blood.
This may be confirmed when the seeds are collected and sown separately in cultures that can
be carefully guarded.

[99] In order to get a closer insight into the causes of this confused condition of ordinary
races, Rimpau made some observations on Rivett's wheat. He found that it suffers from frost
during winter more than the local German varieties, and that from various causes, alien seeds
may accidentally, and not rarely, become mixed with it. The threshing-machines are not always
as clean as they should be and may be the cause of an accidental mixture. The manure comes
from stables, where straw and the dust from many varieties are thrown together, and consequently
living kernels may become mixed with the dung. Such stray grains will easily germinate in the
fields, where they find more congenial conditions than does the improved variety. If winter
arrives and kills quantities of this latter, the accidental local races will find ample space
to develop. Once started, they will be able to multiply so rapidly, that in one or two following
generations they will constitute a very considerable portion of the whole harvest. In this
way the awnless German wheat often prevails over the introduced English variety, if the latter
is not kept pure by continuous selection.

The Swiss wheat-breeder Risler made an experiment which goes to prove the certainty of the
explanation given by Rimpau. He observed on his farm at Saleves near the lake of Geneva that
after a lapse of time the "Galland wheat" deteriorated and assumed, as was generally believed,
the characters of the local sorts. In order to ascertain the real cause of this apparent change,
he sowed in alternate rows in a field, the "Galland" and one of the local varieties. The "Galland"
is a race with obvious characters and was easily distinguished from the other at the time when
the heads were ripe. They are bearded when flowering, but afterwards throw off the awns. The
kernels are very large and yield an extraordinarily good, white flour.

During the first summer all the heads of the "Galland" rows had the deciduous awns but the
following year these were only seen on half of the plants, the remainder having smooth heads,
and the third year the "Galland" had nearly disappeared, being supplanted by the competing
local race. The cause of this rapid change was found to be twofold. First the "Galland," as
an improved variety, suffers from the winter in a far higher degree than the native Swiss sorts,
and secondly it ripens its kernels one or two weeks later. At the time of harvest it may not
have become fully ripe, while the varieties mixed with it had reached maturity. The wild oat,
Avena fatua, is very common in [101] Europe from whence it has been introduced in the United
States. In summers which are unfavorable to the development of the cultivated oats it may be
observed to multiply with an almost incredible rapidity. It does not contribute to the harvest,
and is quite useless. If no selection were made, or if selection were discontinued, it would
readily supplant the cultivated varieties.

From these several observations and experiments it may be seen, that it is not at all easy
to keep the common varieties of cereals pure and that even the best are subject to the encroachment
of impurities. Hence it is only natural that races of cereals, when cultivated without the
utmost care, or even when selected without an exact knowledge of their single constituents,
are always observed to be more or less in a mixed condition. Here, as everywhere with cultivated
and wild plants, the systematic species consist of a number of minor types, which pertain to
different countries and climates, and are growing together in the same climate and under the
same external conditions. They do not mingle, nor are their differentiating characters destroyed
by intercrossing. They each remain pure, and may be isolated whenever and wherever the desirability
for such a proceeding should arise. The purity of [102] the races is a condition implanted
in them by man, and nature always strives against this arbitrary and one-sided improvement.
Numerous slight differences in characters and numerous external influences benefit the minor
types and bring them into competition with the better ones. Sometimes they tend to supplant
the latter wholly, but ordinarily sooner or later a state of equilibrium is reached, in which
henceforth the different sorts may live together. Some are favored by warm and others by cool
summers, some are injured by hard winters while others thrive then and are therefore relatively
at an advantage. The mixed condition is the rule, purity is the exception.

Different sorts of cereals are not always easily distinguishable by the layman and therefore
I will draw your attention to conditions in meadows, where a corresponding phenomenon can be
observed in a much simpler way.

Only artificial pasture-grounds are seen to consist of a single species of grass or clover.
The natural condition in meadows is the occurrence of clumps of grasses and some clovers, mixed
up with perhaps twenty or more species of other genera and families. The numerical proportion
of these constituents is of great interest, and has been studied at Rothamstead in England
and on a number of other farms. It is [103] always changing. No two successive years show exactly
the same proportions. At one time one species prevails, at another time one or two or more
other species. The weather during the spring and summer benefits some and hurts others, the
winter may be too cold for some, but again harmless for others, the rainfall may partly drown
some species, while others remain uninjured. Some weeds may be seen flowering profusely during
some years, while in other summers they are scarcely to be found in the same meadow. The whole
population is in a fluctuating state, some thriving and others deteriorating. It is a continuous
response to the ever changing conditions of the weather. Rarely a species is wholly annihilated,
though it may apparently be so for years; but either from seeds or from rootstocks, or even
from neighboring lands, it may sooner or later regain its foothold in the general struggle
for life.

This phenomenon is a very curious and interesting one. The struggle for life, which plays so
considerable a part in the modern theories of evolution, may be seen directly at work. It does
not alter the species themselves, as is commonly supposed, but it is always changing their
numerical proportion. Any lasting change in the external conditions will of course alter the
average oscillation and the influence [104] of such alterations will manifest itself in most
cases simply in new numerical proportions. Only extremes have extreme effects, and the chance
for the weaker sorts to be completely overthrown is therefore very small.

Any one, who has the opportunity of observing a waste field during a series of years, should
make notes concerning the numerical proportions of its inhabitants. Exact figures are not at
all required; approximate estimates will ordinarily prove to be sufficient, if only the standard
remains the same during the succeeding years.

The entire mass of historic evidence goes to prove that the same conditions have always prevailed,
from the very beginning of cultivation up to the present time. The origin of the cultivation
of cereals is to be sought in central Asia. The recent researches of Solms Laubach show it
to be highly probable that the historic origin of the wheat cultivated in China, is the same
as that of the wheat of Egypt and Europe. Remains of cereals are found in the graves of Egyptian
mummies, in the mounds of waste material of the lake-dwellings of Central Europe, and figures
of cereals are to be seen on old Roman coins. In the sepulchre of King Ra-n-Woser of the Fifth
Dynasty of Egypt, who lived about 2000 years B.C., two [105] tombs have recently been opened
by the German Oriental Society. In them were found quantities of the tares of the Triticum
dicoccum, one of the more primitive forms of wheat. In other temples and pyramids and among
the stones of the walls of Dashur and El Kab studied by Unger, different species and varieties
of cereals were discovered in large quantities, that showed their identity with the present
prevailing cultivated races of Egypt.

The inhabitants of the lake-dwellings in Switzerland possessed some varieties of cereals, which
have entirely disappeared. They are distinguished by Heer under special names. The small barley
and the small wheat of the lake-dwellers are among them. All in all there were ten well distinguished
varieties of cereals, the Panicum and the Setaria or millet being of the number. Oats were
evidently introduced only toward the very last of the lake-dwelling period, and rye is of far
later introduction into western Europe. Similar results are attained by the examination of
the cereals figured by the Romans of the same period.

All these are archaeologic facts, and give but slight indications concerning the methods of
cultivation or the real condition of the cultivated races of that time. Virgil has left us
some knowledge of the requirements of methodical [106] culture of cereals of his time. In his
poem Georgics (I. 197) the following lines are found:

   Vidi lecta din, et multo spectata labore
   Degenerare tamen, ni vis humana quotannis
   Maxima quaeque manu legeret.

   (The chosen seed, through years and labor improved,
   Was seen to run back, unless yearly
   Man selected by hand the largest and fullest of ears.)

Elsewhere Virgil and also some lines of Columella and Varro go to prove in the same way that
selection was applied by the Romans to their cereals, and that it was absolutely necessary
to keep their races pure. There is little doubt, but that it was the same principle as that
which has led, after many centuries, to the complete isolation and improvement of the very
best races of the mixed varieties. It further proves that the mixed conditions of the cereals
was known to man at that time, although distinct ideas of specific marks and differences were
of course still wholly lacking. It is proof also that cultivated cereals from the earliest
times must have been built up of numerous elementary forms. Moreover it is very probable, that
in the lapse of centuries a goodly number of such types must have disappeared. [107] Among
the vanished forms are the special barley and wheat of the lake-dwellings, the remains of which
have been accidentally preserved, but most of the forms must have disappeared without leaving
any trace.

This inference is supported by the researches of Solms-Laubach, who found that in Abyssinia
numerous primitive types of cereals are still in culture. They are not adequate to compete
with our present varieties, and would no doubt also have disappeared, had they not been preserved
by such quite accidental and almost primitive isolation.

Closing this somewhat long digression into history we will now resume our discussion concerning
the origin of the method of selecting cereals for isolation and segregate-cultivation. Some
decades after Le Couteur, this method was taken up by the celebrated breeder Patrick Sheriff
of Haddington in Scotland. His belief, which was general at that time, was "That cultivation
has not been found to change well defined kinds, and that improvement can be best attained
by selecting new and superior varieties, which nature occasionally produces, as if inviting
the husbandman to stretch forth his hand and cultivate them."

Before going into the details of Sheriff's work it is as well to say something concerning [108]
the use of the word "selection." This word was used by Sheriff as seen in the quotation given,
and it was obviously designed to convey the same idea as the word "lecta" in the quotation
from Virgil. It was a choice of the best plants from among known mixed fields, but the chosen
individuals were considered to be representatives of pure and constant races, which could only
be isolated, but not ameliorated. Selection therefore, in the primitive sense of the word,
is the choice of elementary species and varieties, with no other purpose than that of keeping
them as pure as possible from the admixture of minor sorts. The Romans attained this end only
imperfectly, simply because the laws governing the struggle for life and the competition of
numerous sorts in the fields were unsuspected by them.

Le Couteur and Sheriff succeeded in the solution of the problem, because they had discovered
the importance of isolation. The combination of a careful choice with subsequent isolation
was all they knew about it, and it was one of the great achievements to which modern agriculture
owes its success.

The other great principle was that of Vilmorin. It was the improvement within the race, or
the "amelioration of the race" as it was termed by him. It was introduced into [109] England
by F.F. Hallett of Brighton in Sussex, who at once called it "pedigree-culture," and produced
his first new variety under the very name of "Pedigree-wheat." This principle, which yields
improved strains, that are not constant but dependent on the continued and careful choice of
the best plants in each succeeding generation, is now generally called "selection." But it
should always be remembered that according to the historic evolution of the idea, the word
has the double significance of the distinction and isolation of constant races from mixtures,
and that of the choice of the best representatives of a race during all the years of its existence.
Even sugar-beets, the oldest "selected" agricultural plants, are far from having freed themselves
from the necessity of continuous improvement. Without this they would not remain constant,
but would retrograde with great rapidity.

The double meaning of the word selection still prevailed when Darwin published his "Origin
of Species." This was in the year 1859, and at that time Shirreff was the highest authority
and the most successful breeder of cereals. Vilmorin's method had been applied only to beets,
and Hallett had commenced his pedigree-cultures only a few years before and his first publication
of the "Pedigree-wheat" [110] appeared some years later at the International Exhibition of
London in 1862. Hence, whenever Darwin speaks of selection, Shirreff's use of the word may
as well be meant as that of Vilmorin.

However, before going deeper into such theoretical questions, we will first consider the facts,
as given by Shirreff himself.

During the best part of his life, in fact during the largest part of the first half of the
nineteenth century, Shirreff worked according to a very simple principle. When quite young
he had noticed that sometimes single plants having better qualities than the average were seen
in the fields. He saved the grains, or sometimes the whole heads of such plants separately,
and tried to multiply them in such manner as to avoid intermixtures.

His first result was the "Mungoswell's wheat." In the spring of 1819 he observed quite accidentally
in a field of the farm of that name, a single plant which attracted his attention by a deeper
green and by being more heavily headed out. Without going into further details, he at once
chose this specimen as the starting point of a new race. He destroyed the surrounding plants
so as to give it more space, applied manure to its roots, and tended it with special care.
It yielded 63 heads and nearly [111] 2500 grains. All of these were sown the following fall,
and likewise in the succeeding years the whole harvest was sown in separate lots. After two
years of rapid multiplication it proved to be a good new variety and was brought into commerce.
It has become one of the prominent varieties of wheat in East Lothian, that county of Scotland
of which Haddington is the principal borough.

The grains of "Mungoswell's wheat" are whiter than those of the allied "Hunter's wheat," more
rounded but otherwise of the same size acid weight. The straw is taller and stronger, and each
plant produces more culms and more heads.

Shirreff assumed, that the original plant of this variety was a sport from the race in which
he had found it, and that it was the only instance of this sport. He gives no details about
this most interesting side of the question, omitting even to tell the name of the parent variety.
He only asserts that it was seen to be better, and afterwards proved so by the appreciation
of other breeders and its success in trade. He observed it to be quite constant from the beginning,
no subsequent selection being needed. This important feature was simply assumed by him to be
true as a matter of course.

[112] Some years afterwards, in the summer of 1824, he observed a large specimen of oats in
one of the fields of the same farm. Being at that time occupied in making a standard collection
of oats for a closer comparison of the varieties, he saved the seeds of that plant and sowed
them in a row in his experiment-field. It yielded the largest culms of the whole collection
and bore long and heavy kernels with a red streak on the concave side and it excelled all other
sorts by the fine qualities of its very white meal. In the unequal length of its stalks it
has however a drawback, as the field appears thinner and more meager than it is in reality.
"Hopetown oats," as it is called, has found its way into culture extensively in Scotland and
has even been introduced with success into England, Denmark and the United States. It has been
one of the best Scottish oats for more than half a century.

The next eight years no single plant judged worthy of selection on his own farm attracted Shirreff's
attention. But in the fall of 1832 he saw a beautiful plant of wheat on a neighboring farm
and he secured a head of it with about 100 grains. From this he produced the "Hopetown wheat."
After careful separation from the kernels this original ear was preserved, and was afterwards
exhibited at the Stirling Agricultural [113] Museum. The "Hopetown wheat" has proved to be
a constant variety, excelling the ordinary "Hunter's wheat" by larger grains and longer heads;
it yields likewise a straw of superior quality and has become quite popular in large districts
of England and Scotland, where it is known by the name of "White Hunter's" from its origin
and the brilliant whiteness of its heads.

In the same way Shirreff's oats were discovered in a single plant in a field where it was isolated
in order to be brought into commerce after multiplication. It has won the surname of "Make-him-rich."
Nothing is on record about the details of its origin.

Four valuable new varieties of wheat and oats were obtained in this way in less than forty
years. Then Shirreff changed his ideas and his method of working. Striking specimens appeared
to be too rare, and the expectation of a profitable result too small. Therefore he began work
on a larger scale. He sought and selected during the summer of 1857 seventy heads of wheat,
each from a single plant showing some marked and presumably favorable peculiarity. These were
not gathered on one field, but were brought together from all the fields to which he had access
in his vicinity. The grains of each of these selected heads were [114] sown separately, and
the lots compared during their whole life-period and chiefly at harvest time. Three of the
lots were judged of high excellence, and they alone were propagated, and proving to be constant
new varieties from the outset were given to the trade under the names of "Shirreff's bearded
white," "Shirreff's bearded red," and "Pringle's wheat." They have found wide acceptance, and
the first two of them are still considered by Vilmorin as belonging to the best wheats of France.

This second method of Shirreff evidently is quite analogous to the principle of Lagasca and
Le Couteur. The previous assumption that new varieties with striking features were being produced
by nature from time to time, was abandoned, and a systematic inquiry into the worth of all
the divergent constituents of the fields was begun. Every single ear at once proved to belong
to a constant and pure race, but most of these were only of average value. Some few however,
excelled to a degree, which made them worth multiplying, and to be introduced into trade as
separate varieties.

Once started, this new method of comparison, selection and isolated multiplication was of course
capable of many improvements. The culture in the experiment-field was improved, so as to insure
a fuller and more rapid growth.

[115] The ripe heads had to be measured and counted and compared with respect to their size
and the number of their kernels. Qualities of grain and of meal had to be considered, and the
influence of climate and soil could not be overlooked.

Concerning the real origin of his new types Shirreff seems never to have been very inquisitive.
He remarks that only the best cultivated varieties have a chance to yield still better types,
and that it is useless to select and sow the best heads of minor sorts. He further remarks
that it is not probable that he found a new sport every time; on the contrary he assumes that
his selections had been present in the field before, and during a series of succeeding generations.
How many years old they were, was of course impossible to determine. But there is no reason
to believe that the conditions in the fields of Scotland were different from those observed
on the Isle of Jersey by Le Couteur.

In the year 1862 Shirreff devoted himself to the selection of oats, searching for the best
panicles from the whole country, and comparing their offspring in his experimental garden.
"Early Fellow," "Fine Fellow," "Longfellow" and "Early Angus" are very notable varieties introduced
into trade in this way.

[116] Some years later Patrick Shirreff described his experiments and results in a paper entitled,
"On the improvement of cereals," but the descriptions are very short, and give few details
of systematic value. The leading principle, however, is clearly indicated, and anyone who studies
with care his method of working, may confidently attempt to improve the varieties of his own
locality in the same way.

This great principle of "variety-testing," as it has been founded by Le Couteur and Patrick
Shirreff, has increased in importance ever since. Two main features are to be considered here.
One is the production of local races, the other the choice of the best starting-point for hybridizing
experiments, as is shown in California by the work of Luther Burbank in crossing different
elementary species of Lilium pardalinum and others.

Every region and locality has its own conditions of climate and soil. Any ordinary mixed race
will contain some elementary forms which are better adapted to a given district, while others
are more suitable to divergent conditions. Hence it can readily be inferred that the choice
cannot be the same for different regions. Every region should select its own type from among
the various forms, and variety testing therefore becomes a task which every [117] one must
undertake under his own conditions. Some varieties will prove, after isolation, to be profitable
for large districts and perhaps for whole states. Others will be found to be of more local
value, but in such localities to excel all others.

As an example we may take one of the varieties of wheat originated by the Minnesota Experiment
Station. Hays described it as follows. It was originated from a single plant. From among 400
plants of "Blue stem" several of the best were chosen, each growing separately, a foot apart
in every direction. Each of the selected plants yielded 500 or more grains of wheat, weighing
10 or more grams. The seeds from these selected plants were raised for a few years until sufficient
was obtained to sow a plot. Then for several years the new strains were grown in a field beside
the parent-variety. One of them was so much superior that all others were discarded. It was
the one named "Minnesota No. 169." For a large area of Minnesota this wheat seems capable of
yielding at least 1 or 2 bushels more grain per acre than its parent variety, which is the
best kind commonly and almost universally found on the farms in southern and central Minnesota.

It would be quite superfluous for our present purpose to give more instances. The fact of [118]
the compound nature of so-called species of cultivated plants seems to be beyond all doubt,
and its practical importance is quite obvious.

Acclimatization is another process, which is largely dependent on the choice of adequate varieties.
This is shown on a large scale by the slow and gradual dispersion of the varieties of corn
in this country. The largest types are limited to temperate and subtropical regions, while
the varieties capable of cultivation in more northern latitudes are smaller in size and stature
and require a smaller number of days to reach their full development from seed to seed. Northern
varieties are small and short lived, but the "Forty-day-corn" or "Quarantino maize" is recorded
to have existed in tropical America at the time of Columbus. In preference, or rather to the
entire exclusion of taller varieties, it has thriven on the northern boundaries of the corn-growing
states of Europe since the very beginning of its cultivation.

According to Naudin, the same rule prevails with melons, cucumbers and gherkins, and other
instances could easily be given.

Referring now to the inferences that may be drawn from the experience of the breeders in order
to elucidate the natural processes, we will return to the whitlow-grasses and pansies.

[119] Nature has constituted them as groups of slightly different constant forms, quite in
the same way as wheat and oats and corn. Assuming that this happened ages ago somewhere in
central Europe, it is of course probable that the same differences in respect to the influence
of climatic conditions will have prevailed as with cereals. Subsequent to the period which
has produced the numerous elementary species of the whitlow-grass came a period of widespread
distribution. The process must have been wholly comparable with that of acclimatization. Some
species must have been more adapted to northern climates, others to the soils of western or
eastern regions and so on. These qualities must have decided the general lines of the distribution,
and the species must have been segregated according to their respective climatic qualities,
and their adaptability to soil and weather. A struggle for life and a natural selection must
have accompanied and guided the distribution, but there is no reason to assume that the various
forms were changed by this process, and that we see them now endowed with other qualities than
they had at the outset.

Natural selection must have played, in this and in a large number of other cases, quite the
same part as the artificial method of variety testing.

[120] Indeed it may be surmised that this has been its chief and prominent function. Taking
up again our metaphor of the sieve we can assert that in such cases climate and soil exercise
sifting action and in this way the application of the metaphor becomes more definite. Of course,
next to the climate and soil in importance, come ecological conditions, the vegetable and animal
enemies of the plants and other influences of the same nature.

In conclusion it is to be pointed out that this side of the problem of natural selection and
the struggle for life appears to offer the best prospects for experimental, or for continued
statistical inquiry. Direct observations are possible and any comparison of numerical proportions
of species in succeeding years affords clear proof of the part it plays. And above all, such
observations can be made quite independently of doubtful theoretical considerations about presumed
changes of character.

The fact of natural selection is plain and it should be studied in its most simple conditions.

[121] C. RETROGRADE VARIETIES

LECTURE V

CHARACTERS OF RETROGRADE VARIETIES

Every one admires the luxuriance of garden-flowers, and their diversity of color and form.
All parts of the world have contributed to their number and every taste can find its preference
among them. New forms produced by the skill of the breeder are introduced every year. This
has been done mostly by crossing and intermingling the characters of introduced species of
the same genus. In some of the cases the history of our flowers is so old that their hybrid
origin is forgotten, as in the case of the pansies. Hybridizations are still going on in other
groups on a large scale, and new forms are openly claimed to be of hybrid origin.

Breeders and amateurs generally have more interest in the results than in the way in which
they have been brought about. Excellent flowers and fruit recommend themselves and there seems
to be no reason for inquiring [122] about their origin. In some cases the name of the originator
may be so widely known that it adds weight to the value of the new form, and therefore may
advantageously be coupled with it. The origin and history of the greater part of our garden-flowers,
fruits and vegetables are obscure; we see them as they are, and do not know from whence they
came. The original habitat for a whole genus or for a species at large, may be known, but questions
as to the origin of the single forms, of which it is built up, ordinarily remain unanswered.

For these reasons we are restricted in most cases to the comparison of the forms before us.
This comparison has led to the general use of the term "variety" in opposition to "species."
The larger groups of forms, which are known to have been introduced as such are called species.
All forms which by their characters belong to such a species are designated as varieties, irrespective
of their systematic relation to the form, considered as the ancestor of the group.

Hence, we distinguish between "hybrid varieties" and "pure varieties" according to their origin
from different parents or from a single line of ancestors. Moreover, in both groups the forms
may be propagated by seeds, or in the vegetative way by buds, by grafting or [123] by cutting,
and this leads to the distinction of "seed-varieties" and "vegetative varieties." In the first
case the inheritance of the special characters through the seeds decides the status of the
variety, in the latter case this point is left wholly out of consideration.

Leaving aside all these different types, we are concerned here only with the "seed-varieties"
of pure origin, or at least with those, that are supposed to be so. Hybridization and vegetative
multiplication of the hybrids no doubt occur in nature, but they are very rare, when compared
with the ordinary method of propagation by seed. "Seed-varieties" may further be divided into
constant and inconstant ones. The difference is very essential, but the test is not always
easy to apply. Constant varieties are as sharply defined and as narrowly limited as are the
best wild species, while inconstant types are cultivated chiefly on account of their wide range
of form and color. This diversity is repeated yearly, even from the purest seed. We will now
discuss the constant seed-varieties, leaving the inconstant and eversporting types to a subsequent
lecture.

In this way we may make an exact inquiry into the departures from the species which are ordinarily
considered to constitute the essential character of such a constant and pure seed-variety [124]
and need only compare these differences with those that distinguish the elementary species
of one and the same group from each other.

Two points are very striking. By far the greatest part of the ordinary garden-varieties differ
from their species by a single sharp character only. In derivative cases two, three or even
more such characters may be combined in one variety, for instance, a dwarfed variety of the
larkspur may at the same time bear white flowers, or even double white flowers, but the individuality
of the single characters is not in the least obscured by such combinations.

The second point is the almost general occurrence of the same variety in extended series of
species. White and double flowers, variegated leaves, dwarfs and many other instances may be
cited. It is precisely this universal repetition of the same character that strikes us as the
essential feature of a variety.

And again these two characteristics may now be considered separately. Let us begin with the
sharpness of the varietal characters. In this respect varieties differ most obviously from
elementary species. These are distinguished from their nearest allies in almost all organs.
There is no prominent distinctive feature between the single forms of Draba [125] Verna, Helianthemum
or of Taraxacum; all characters are almost equally concerned. The elementary species of Draba
are characterized, as we have seen, by the forms and the hairiness of the leaves, the number
and height of the flower-stalks, the breadth and incision of the petals, the forms of the fruits,
and so on. Every one of the two hundred forms included in this collective species has its own
type, which it is impossible to express by a single term. Their names are chosen arbitrarily.
Quite the contrary is the case with most of the varieties, for which one word ordinarily suffices
to express the whole difference.

White varieties of species with red or blue flowers are the most common instances. If the species
has a compound color and if only one of the constituents is lost, partially colored types arise
as in Agrostemma Coronaria bicolor. Or the spots may disappear and the color become uniform
as in Gentiana punctata concolor and the spotless Arum or Arum maculatum immaculatum. Absence
of hairs produces forms as Biscutella laevigata glabra; lack of prickles gives the varieties
known as inermis, as for instance, Ranunculus arvensis inermis. Cytisus prostratus has a variety
ciliata, and Solanum Dulcamara, or the bitter-sweet, has a variety called tomentosum. The curious
monophyllous [126] variety of the strawberry and many other forms will be discussed later.

To enlarge this list it would only be necessary to extract from a flora, or from a catalogue
of horticultural plants, the names of the varieties enumerated therein. In nearly every instance,
where true varieties and not elementary species are concerned, a single term expresses the
whole character.

Such a list would also serve to illustrate the second point since the same names would recur
frequently. Long lists of varieties are called alba, or inermis, or canescens or lutea, and
many genera contain the same appellations. In some instances the systematists use a diversity
of names to convey exactly the same idea, as if to conceal the monotony of the character, as
for instance in the case of the lack of hairs, which is expressed by the varietal names of
Papaver dubium glabrum, Arabis ciliata glabrata, Arabis hirsuta glaberrima, Veronica spicata
nitens, Amygdalus persica laevis, Paeonia corallina Leiocarpa, &c.

On the contrary we find elementary species in different genera based on the greatest possible
diversity of features. The forms of Taraxacum or Helianthemum do not repeat those of Draba
or Viola. In roses and brambles the distinguishing features are characteristic of the type,
as [127] they are evidently derived from it and limited to it. And this is so true that nobody
claims the grade of elementary species for white roses or white brambles, but everyone recognizes
that forms diverging from the nearest species by a single character only, are to be regarded
as varieties.

This general conviction is the basis on which we may build up a more sharply defined distinction
between elementary species and varieties. It is an old rule in systematic botany, that no form
is to be constituted a species upon the basis of a single character. All authors agree on this
point; specific differences are derived from the totality of the attributes, not from one organ
or one quality. This rule is intimately connected with the idea that varieties are derived
from species. The species is the typical, really existing form from which the variety has originated
by a definite change. In enumerating the different forms the species is distinguished by the
term of genuine or typical, often only indicated as a or the first; then follow the varieties
sometimes in order of their degree of difference, sometimes simply in alphabetical order. In
the case of elementary species there is no real type; no one of them predominates because all
are considered to be equal in rank, and the systematic species to which they [128] are referred
is not a really existing form, but is the abstraction of the common type of all, just as it
is in the case of a genus or of a family.

Summarizing the main points of this discussion, we find that elementary species are of equal
rank and together build up the collective or systematic ideal species. Varieties on the other
hand are derived from a real and commonly, still existing type.

I hope that I have succeeded in showing that the difference between elementary species, or,
as they are often called, smaller or subspecies, on the one hand and varieties on the other,
is quite a marked one. However, in order to recognize this principle it is necessary to limit
the term variety, to those propagating themselves by seed and are of pure and not of hybrid origin.

But the principle as stated here, does not involve an absolute contrast between two groups
of characters. It is more a difference in our knowledge and appreciation of them than a difference
in the things themselves. The characters of elementary species are, as a rule, new to us, while
those of varieties are old and familiar. It seems to me that this is the essential point.

And what is it that makes us familiar with them? Obviously the continuous recurrence of the
same changes, because by a constant repetition they must of course lose their novelty.

[129] Presently we shall look into these characters more in detail and then we shall find that
they are not so simple as might be supposed at first sight; but precisely because we are so
familiar with them, we readily see that their different features really belong to a single
character; while in elementary species everything is so new that it is impossible for us to
discern the unities of the new attributes.

If we bear in mind all these difficulties we cannot wonder at the confusion on this question
that seems to prevail everywhere. Some authors following Linnaeus simply call all the subdivisions
of species, varieties; others follow Jordan and avoid the difficulty by designating all smaller
forms directly as species. The ablest systematists prefer to consider the ordinary species
as collective groups, calling their constituents "The elements of the species," as was done
by A.P. De Candolle, Alph. De Candolle and Lindley.

By this method they clearly point out the difference between the subdivisions of wild species
as they ordinarily occur, and the varieties in our gardens, which would be very rare, were
they not singled out and preserved.

Our familiarity with a character and our grounds for calling it an old acquaintance may result
from two causes, which in judging a new [130] variety are essentially different. The character
in question may be present in the given species or it may be lacking, but present in the other
group. In the first case a variety can only be formed by the loss of the character, in the
second case it arises by the addition of a new one.

The first mode may be called a negative process, while the second is then to be designated
as positive. And as it is more easy to lose what one has than to obtain something new, negative
varieties are much more common than are positive ones.

Let us now take an instance of a character that is apt to vary in both ways, for this is obviously
the best way of making clear what is meant by a negative and a positive change.

In the family of the composites we find a group of genera with two forms of florets on each
flower-head. The hermaphrodite ones are tubular with 5, or rarely 4, equal teeth, and occupy
the center of the head. These are often called the flosculous florets or disk-florets. Those
of the circumference are ligulate and ordinarily unisexual, without stamens. In many cases
they are sterile, having only an imperfect ovary. They are large and brightly colored and are
generally designated as ray-florets. As instances we may cite the camomile (Anthemis nobilis),
the wild camomile (Matricaria Chamomilla), [131] the yarrow (Achillea Millefolium), the daisies,
the Dahlia and many others. Species occur in this group of plants from time to time that lack
the ray-florets, as in the tansy (Tanacetum vulgare) and some artemisias. And the genus of
the marigolds or Bidens is noted for containing both of these types. The smaller and the three-toothed
marigold (B. cernua and B. tripartita) are very common plants of wet soil and swamps, ordinarily
lacking the ray-florets, and in some countries they are very abundant and wholly constant in
this respect, never forming radiate flower-heads. On the other hand the white-flowered and
the purple marigold (B. leucantha and B. atropurpurea) are cultivated species of our gardens,
prized for their showy flower-heads with large white or deeply colored, nearly black-purple
florets.

Here we have opportunity to observe positive and negative varieties of the same character.
The smaller, and the three-toothed marigold occur from time to time, provided with ray florets,
showing a positive variation. And the white marigold has produced in our gardens a variety
without rays. Such varieties are quite constant, never returning to the old species. Positive
and negative varieties of this kind are by no means rare among the compositae.

[132] In systematic works the positive ones are as a rule called "radiate," and the negative
ones "discoid." Discoid forms of the ordinary camomile, of the daisy, of some asters (Aster
Tripolium), and of some centauries have been described. Radiate forms have been observed in
the tansy (Tanacetum vulgare), the common horse-weed or Canada fleabane (Erigeron canadensis)
and the common groundsel (Senecio vulgaris). Taken broadly the negative varieties seem to be
somewhat more numerous than the positive ones, but it is very difficult to come to a definite
conclusion on this point.

Quite the contrary is the case with regard to the color-varieties of red and blue flowers.
Here the loss of color is so common that every one could give long lists of examples of it.
Linnaeus himself supposed that no blue or red-colored wild species would be without a white
variety. It is well known that he founded his often criticized prescript never to trust to
color in recognizing or describing a species, on this belief.

On the other hand there are some red varieties of white-flowered species. But they are very
rare, and little is known about their characters or constancy. Blue varieties of white species
are not found. The yarrow (Achillea Millefolium) has a red-flowered form, which occurs [133]
from time to time in sunny and sandy localities. I have isolated it and cultivated it during
a series of years and during many generations. It is quite true to its character, but the degree
of its coloring fluctuates between pink and white and is extremely variable. Perhaps it can
be considered as an inconstant variety. A redflowered form of the common Begonia semperflorens
is cultivated under the name of "Vernon," the white hawthorn (Crataegus Oxyacantha) is often
seen with red flowers, and a pink-flowered variety of the "Silverchain" or "Bastard acacia"
(Robinia Pseud-Acacia) is not rarely cultivated. The "Crown" variety of the yellow wall-flower
and the black varieties, are also to be considered as positive color variations, the black
being due in the latter cases to a very great amount of the red pigment.

Among fruits there are also some positive red varieties of greenish or yellowish species, as
for instance the red gooseberry (Ribes Grossularia) and the red oranges. The red hue is far
more common in leaves, as seen among herbs, in cultivated varieties of Coleus and in the brown
leaved form of the ordinary white clover, among trees and shrubs in the hazelnut (Corylus),
the beech (Fagus), the birch (Betula), the barberry (Berberis) and many others. But though
most of these forms are very ornamental and abundant [134] in parks and gardens, little is
as yet known concerning the origin of their varietal attributes and their constancy, when propagated
by seeds. Besides the ray-florets and the colors, there are of course a great many other characters
in which varieties may differ from their species. In most of the cases it is easy to discern
whether the new character is a positive or a negative one. And it is not at all necessary to
scrutinize very narrowly the list of forms to become convinced that the negative form is the
one which prevails nearly everywhere, and that positive aberrations are in a general sense
so rare that they might even be taken for exceptions to the rule.

Many organs and many qualities may be lost in the origination of a variety. In some instances
the petals may disappear, as in Nigella, or the stamens, as in the Guelder-rose (Viburnum Opulus)
and the Hortensia and in some bulbs even the whole flowers may be wanting, as in the beautiful
"Plumosa" form of the cultivated grape-hyacinth or Muscari comosum. Fruits of the pineapples
and bananas without seeds are on record as well as some varieties of apples and pears, of raisins
and oranges. And some years ago Mr. Riviere of Algeria described a date growing in his garden
that forms fruit without pits. The stoneless plum of Mr. [135] Burbank of Santa Rosa, California,
is also a very curious variety, the kernel of which is fully developed but naked, no hard substance
intervening between it and the pulp.

More curious still are the unbranched varieties consisting of a single stem, as may be seen
sometimes in the corn or maize and in the fir. Fir-trees of some three or four meters in height
without a single branch, wholly naked and bearing leaves only on the shoots of the last year's
growth at the apex of the tree, may be seen. Of course they cannot bear seed, and so it is
with the sterile maize, which never produces any seed-spikes or staminate flowers. Other seedless
varieties can be propagated by buds; their origin is in most cases unknown, and we are not
sure as to whether they should be classified with the constant or with the inconstant varieties.

A very curious loss is that of starch in the grains of the sugar-corn and the sugar-peas. It
is replaced by sugar or some allied substance (dextrine). Equally remarkable is the loss of
the runners in the so-called "Gaillon" strawberries.

Among trees the pendulous or weeping, and the broomlike or fastigiate forms are very marked
varieties, which occur in species belonging to quite different orders. The ash, the beach,
some willows, many other trees and some [136] finer species of garden-plants, as Sophora japonica,
have given rise to weeping varieties, and the yew-tree or Taxus has a fastigiate form which
is much valued because of its ascending branches and pyramidal habit. So it is with the pyramidal
varieties of oaks, elms, the bastard-acacia and some others.

It is generally acknowledged that these forms are to be considered as varieties on the ground
of their occurrence in so wide a range of species, and because they always bear the same attributes.
The pendulous forms owe their peculiarity to a lengthening of the branches and a loss of their
habit of growing upwards; they are too weak to retain a vertical position and the response
to gravity, which is ordinarily the cause of the upright growth, is lacking in them. As far
as we know, the cause of this weeping habit is the same in all instances. The fastigiate trees
and shrubs are a counterpart of the weeping forms. Here the tendency to grow in a horizontal
direction is lacking, and with it the bilateral and symmetric structure of the branches has
disappeared. In the ordinary yew-tree the upright stem bears its needles equally distributed
around its circumference, but on the branches the needles are inserted in two rows, one to
the left and one to the right. All the needles turn their upper surfaces upwards, [137] and
their lower surfaces downwards, and all of them are by this means placed in a single horizontal
plane, and branching takes place in the same plane. Evidently this general arrangement is another
response to gravity, and it is the failure of this reaction which induces the branches to grow
upwards and to behave like stems.

Both weeping and fastigiate characters are therefore to be regarded as steps in a negative
direction, and it is highly important that even such marked departures occur without transitions
or intermediate forms. If these should occur, though ever so rarely, they would probably have
been brought to notice, on account of the great prospect the numerous instances would offer.
The fact that they are lacking, proves that the steps, though apparently great, are in reality
to be considered as covering single units, that cannot be divided into smaller parts. Unfortunately
we are still in the dark as to the question of the inheritance of these forms, since in most
cases it is difficult to obtain pure seed.

We now consider the cases of the loss of superficial organs, of which the nectarines are example.
These are smooth peaches, lacking the soft hairy down, that is a marked peculiarity of the
true peaches. They occur in different [138] races of the peach. As early as the beginning of
the past century, Gallesio described no less than eight subvarieties of nectarines, each related
to a definite race of peach. Most of them reproduce themselves truly from seed, as is well
known in this country concerning the clingstones, freestones and some other types. Nectarines
have often varied, giving rise to new sorts, as in the case of the white nectarine and many
others differing greatly in appearance and flavor. On the other hand it is to be remarked,
that the trees do not differ in other respects and cannot be distinguished while young, the
varietal mark being limited to the loss of the down on the fruit. Peaches have been known to
produce nectarines, and nectarines to yield true peaches. Here we have another instance of
positive and negative steps with reference to the same character, but I cannot withhold an
expression of some doubt as to the possibility of crossing and subsequently splitting up of
the hybrids as a more probable explanation of at least some of the cases quoted by various writers.

Smooth or glabrous varieties often occur, and some of them have already been cited as instances
of the multiplication of varietal names. Positive aberrations are rather rare, and are mostly
restricted to a greater density of the [139] pubescence in some hairy species, as in Galeopsis
Ladanum canescens, Lotus corniculatus hirsutus and so on. But Veronica scutellata is smooth
and has a pubescent variety, and Cytisus prostratus and C. spinescens are each recorded to
have a ciliate form.

Comparable with the occurrence and the lack of hairs, is the existence or deficiency of the
glaucous effect in leaves, as is well known in the common Ricinus. Here the glaucous appearance
is due to wax distributed in fine particles over the surface of the leaves, and in the green
variety this wax is lacking. Other instances could be given as in the green varieties of Papaver
alpinum and Rumex scutatus. No positive instances are recorded in this case.

Spines and prickles may often disappear and give rise to unarmed and defenceless types. Of
the thorn-apples both species, the whiteflowered Datura Stramonium and the purple D. Tatula
have such varieties. Spinach has a variety called the "Dutch," which lacks the prickles of
the fruit; it is a very old form and absolutely constant, as are also the thornless thorn-apples.
Last year a very curious instance of a partial loss of prickles was discovered by Mr. Cockerell
of East Las Vegas in New Mexico. It is a variety of the American cocklebur, often called sea-burdock,
or the [140] hedgehog-burweed, a stout and common weed of the western states. Its Latin name
is Xanthium canadense or X. commune and the form referred to is named by Mr. Cockerell, X.
Wootoni, in honor of Professor E.o. Wooton who described the first collected specimens.

The burs of the common species are densely covered with long prickles, which are slightly hooked
at the apex. In the new form, which is similar in all other respects to the common cocklebur,
the burs are more slender and the prickles much less numerous, about 25 to the bur and mostly
stouter at the base. It occurs abundantly in New Mexico, always growing with the common species,
and seems to be quite constant from seed. Mr. Cockerell kindly sent me some burs of both forms,
and from these I raised in my garden last year a nice lot of the common, as well as of the
Wootoni plants.

Spineless varieties are recorded for the bastard-acacia, the holly and the garden gooseberry
(Ribes Grossularia, or R. Uva-crispa). A spineless sport of the prickly Broom (Ulex europaeus)
has been seen from time to time, but it has not been propagated.

Summarizing the foregoing facts, we have excellent evidence of varieties being produced either
by the loss of some marked peculiarity or by the acquisition of others that are already [141]
present in allied species. There are a great many cases however, in which the morphologic cause
of the dissimilarity is not so easily discerned. But there is no reason to doubt that most
of them will be found to conform to the rule on closer investigation. Therefore we can consider
the following as the principal difference between elementary species and varieties; that the
first arise by the acquisition of entirely new characters, and the latter by the loss of existing
qualities or by the gain of such peculiarities as may already be seen in other allied species.

If we suppose elementary species and varieties originated by sudden leaps or mutations, then
the elementary species have mutated in the line of progression, some varieties have mutated
in the line of retrogression, while others have diverged from their parental types in a line
of depression, or in the way of repetition. This conception agrees quite well with the current
idea that in the building up of the vegetable kingdom according to the theory of descent, it
is species that form the links of the chain from the lower forms to the more highly organized
later derivatives. Otherwise expressed, the system is built up of species, and varieties are
only local and lateral, but never of real importance for the whole structure.

[142] Heretofore we have generally assumed, that varieties differ from the parent-species in
a single character only, or at least that only one need be considered. We now come to the study
of those varieties, which differ in more than one character. Of these there are two types.
In the first the points of dissimilarity are intimately connected with one another, in the
second they are more or less independent.

The mutually related peculiarities may be termed correlative, and we therefore speak, in such
cases, of correlative variability. This phenomenon is of the highest importance and is of general
occurrence. But before describing some examples, it is as well to note that in the lecture
on fluctuating variability, cases of a totally different nature will be dealt with, which unfortunately
are designated by the same term. Such merely fluctuating variations are therefore to be left
out of the present discussion.

The purple thorn-apple, which is considered by some writers as a variety of the white-flowered
species or Datura Stramonium, and by others as a separate species, D. Tatula, will serve as
an illustration. But as its distinguishing attributes, as far as we are concerned with them
here, are of the nature described above as characteristic of varietal peculiarities no objection
[143] can be made to our using them as a case of correlative variability.

The essential character of the purple thornapple lies in the color of the flowers, which are
of a very beautiful pale blue. But this color is not limited to the corolla. It is also to
be seen in the stems and in the stalks and veins of the leaves, which are stained with a deep
purple, the blue color being added to the original green. Even on the surface of the leaves
it may spread into a purplish hue. On the stems it is to be met with everywhere, and even the
young seedlings show it. This is of some importance, as the young plants when unfolding their
cotyledons and primary leaves, may be distinguished by this means from the seedlings of the
white flowered species.

In crossing experiments it is therefore possible to distinguish the whites and the blues, even
in young seedlings, and experience shows that the correlation is quite constant. The color
can always be relied upon; if lacking in the seedlings, it will be lacking in the stems and
flowers also; but if the axis of the young plant is ever so slightly tinged, the color will
show itself in its beauty in the later stages of the life of the plant.

This is what we term correlation. The colors of the different organs are always in agreement.
It is true that they require the concurrence of [144] light for development, and that in the
dark or in a faint light the seedlings are apt to remain green when they should become purple,
but aside from such consideration all organs always come true to their color, whether pure
green and white, or whether these are combined with the blue tinge. This constancy is so absolute
that the colors of the different organs convey the suggestion, that they are only separate
marks of a single character.

It is on this suggestion that we must work, as it indicates the cause of the correlation. Once
present, the faculty of producing the anthocyan, the color in question, will come into activity
wherever and whenever opportunity presents itself. It is the cell-sap of the ordinary cell
tissue or parenchyma, which is colored by the anthocyan, and for this reason all organs possessing
this tissue, may exhibit the color in question.

Thus the color is not a character belonging to any single organ or cell, nor is it bound to
a morphologic unit; it is a free, physiologic quality. It is not localized, but belongs to
the entire plant. If we wish to assume for its basis material representative particles, these
particles must be supposed to be diffused throughout the whole body of the plant.

This conception of a physiologic unit as the [145] cause of colors and other qualities is evidently
opposed to the current idea of the cells and tissues as the morphologic units of the plants.
But I do not doubt, that in the long run it will recommend itself as much to the scientist
as to the breeder. For the breeder, when desiring to keep his varieties up to their standard,
or when breeding to a definite idea, obviously keeps his standard and his ideal for the whole
plant, even if he breeds only for flowers or for fruit.

I have chosen the color of the purple thornapple as a first example, but the colors of other
plants show so many diverging aspects, all pointing so clearly to the same conclusion, that
it would be well to take a more extensive view of this interesting subject.

First we must consider the correlation in the colors of flowers and fruits. If both are colored
in the species, whether red or brown or purple or nearly black, and a variety lacking this
hue is known, it will be lacking in both organs. If the color is pure, the flowers and berries
will become white, but such cases are rare. Ordinarily a yellowish or greenish tinge underlies
the ornamental color, and if this latter disappears, the yellowish ground will become manifest.
So for instance in the Belladonna, a beautiful perennial herb with great shiny black, but very
poisonous, fruits. Its flowers are brown, but in [146] some woods a variety with greenish flowers
and bright yellow berries occurs, which is also frequently seen in botanic gardens. The anthocyan
dye is lacking in both organs, and the same is the case with the stems and the leaves. The
lady's laurel or Daphne Mezereum has red corollas, purple leaves and red fruits; its white
flowered variety may be distinguished by lack of the red hue in the stems and leaves, and by
their beautiful yellow berries. Many other instances could be given, since the loss of color
in berries is a very common occurrence, so common that for instance, in the heath-family or
Ericaceae, with only a few exceptions, all berry-bearing species have white-fruited varieties.

The same correlation is observed in the seeds. The white-flowered flax may be seen to yield
yellow and not brown seeds as in the blue species. Many varieties of flowers may be recognized
by the color of their seeds, as in the poppies, stocks and others. Other white-flowered varieties
may be distinguished when germinating, their young axes being of a pure instead of a purplish
green. It is a test ordinarily used by gardeners, to purify their flower beds long before the
blooming time, when thinning or weeding them. Even in wild plants, as in Erodium, Calluna,
Brunella and others, a botanist may recognize the rare white-flowered [147] variety by the
pure green color of the leaves, at times when it is not in flower. Some sorts of peas bear
colored flowers and a red mark on the stipules of their leaves. Among bulbous plants many varieties
may be recognized even in the dry bulbs by the different tinges of the outer scales.

Leaving the colors, we come now to another instance of correlation, which is still more astonishing.
For it is as rare, as color-varieties are common. It is afforded by some plants the leaves
of which, instead of being entire or only divided into large parts, are cleft to a greater
extent by repeated fissures of the marginal lobes. In some cases this fissure extends to the
petals of the flowers, and changes them in a way quite analogous to the aberrancy of the leaves.

This is known to occur with a variety of brambles, and is often seen in botanic gardens in
one of the oldest and most interesting of all anomalies, the laciniated variety of the greater
celandine or Chelidonium majus. Many other instances could be given. Most of them belong to
the [148] group of negative variations, as we have defined them. But the same thing occurs
also with positive varieties, though of course, such cases are very rare. The best known instance
is that of the ever-flowering begonia, Begonia semperflorens, which has green leaves and white
flowers, but which has produced garden varieties with a brown foliage and pink flowers. Here
also the new quality manifests itself in different organs.

Enough has now been said on correlative changes, to convince us that they are as a rule to
be considered as the expression of some general internal or physiologic quality, which is not
limited to a single organ, but affects all parts of the organism, provided they are capable
of undergoing the change. Such characters are therefore to be considered as units, and should
be referred to the group of single characters.

Opposed to these are the true compound characters, which consist of different units. These
may be segregated by the production of varieties, and thereby betray the separate factors of
the complex group.

The most beautiful instances of such complex characters are offered by the colors of some of
the most prized garden-flowers. Rarely these are of a single hue, often two or three shades
contribute to the effect, and in some cases special [149] spots or lines or tracings are to
be seen on a white or on a colored background. That such spots and lines are separate units
is obvious and is demonstrated by the fact that sometimes spotless varieties occur, which in
all other respects have kept the colors of the species. The complexity of the color is equally
evident, whenever it is built up of constituents of the anthocyan and of the yellow group.
The anthocyan dye is limited to the sap-cavity of the cells, while the yellow and pure orange
colors are fixed in special organs of the protoplasm. The observation under the microscope
shows at once the different units, which though lying in the same cell and in almost immediate
vicinity of each other are always wholly separated from one another by the wall of the vacuole
or sapfilled cell-cavity.

The combination of red and yellow gives a brown tinge, as in the cultivated wall-flower, or
those bright hues of a dark orange-red, which are so much sought in tulips. By putting such
flowers for a short time in boiling water, the cells die and release the red pigment, which
becomes diffused in the surrounding fluids and the petals are left behind with their yellow
tinge. In this way it is easy to separate the constituents, and demonstrate the compound nature
of the original colors.

[150] But the diversity of the color patterns is far from being exhausted with these simple
instances. Apart from them, or joined to them, other complications are frequently seen, which
it is impossible to analyze in such an artificial way. Here we have to return to our former
principle, the comparison of different varieties. Assuming that single units may be lost, irrespective
of the others, we may expect to find them segregated by variation, wherever a sufficiently
wide range of color-varieties is in cultivation. In fact, in most cases a high degree of dissimilarity
may be reached in the simplest way by such a separation of the components, and by their combination
into most diverse smaller groups. A very nice instance of such an analysis of flower-colors
is afforded by the ordinary snapdragon. The beautiful brown red color of this common garden-plant
is composed on one side of yellow elements, on the other of red units. Of the yellow there
are two, one staining the whole corolla with a light hue, as is to be seen in the pure yellow
variety called luteum. This form has been produced by the loss of the whole group of the red
constituents. If the yellow tinge is also lost, there arises a white variety, but this is not
absolutely colorless, but shows the other yellow constituent. This last stains only some small
parts [151] of the lips of the flower around the throat, brightening, as it seems, the entrance
for the visiting insects. In many of the red or reddish varieties this one yellow patch remains,
while the general yellow hue fails. In the variety called "Brilliant" the yellow ground makes
the red color more shiny, and if it is absent the pure carmine tinge predominates.

It is readily seen, that in the ordinary form the lips are of a darker red than the tube. This
evident dissimilarity indicates some complexity. And in fact we have two varieties which exhibit
the two causes of this attribute separately. One of them is called "Delila," and has the red
color limited to the lips, whilst the tube is pure white. The other is called "Fleshy," and
is of a pale pink throughout the whole corolla. Adding these two units to one another, we get
the original dark red of the wild type, and it may be briefly stated here, that the way of
effecting such an addition is given us in the crossing of the "Fleshy" and the "Delila" variety,
the hybrid showing the two colors and returning thereby to the old prototype.

Other cases of compound flower colors or of color patterns might be given as in the Mimulus
and the poppy, and in most of these cases some varieties are to be seen in our gardens which
show only the single constituents of the group.

[152] Many dark flowers have an intermediate bright hued form besides the white variety, as
in the case of roses, asters, Nicandra and so on.

Intermediate forms with respect to stature may also be seen. The opium-poppy, the snapdragon,
peas, the Nicandra, and many other garden-plants have not only dwarf varieties, but also some
of intermediate height. These, though they are intermediate between the tall and dwarf types,
cannot be considered as transitions, as between them and the extremes, intermediates are, as
a rule wholly lacking. Instances of the same occurrence of three types may be seen in the seeds
of maize ("Cuzco," "Horse-dent" and "Gracillima") of beans and some other plants. The Xanthium
Wootoni, above referred to, with only part of the prickles of Xanthium commune is also a very
curious instance of the demonstration of the compound nature of a character.

Summarizing the conclusions that may be drawn from the evidence given in this lecture, we have
seen that varieties differ from elementary species in that they do not possess anything really
new. They originate for the greater part in a negative way, by the apparent loss of some quality,
and rarely in a positive manner by acquiring a character, already seen in allied species. These
characters are not of the nature of [153] morphologic entities, but are to be considered as
physiologic units, present in all parts of the organisms, and manifesting themselves where
ever occasion is afforded. They are units in the sense that they may appear and disappear singly.
But very often they are combined to yield compound characters, which are capable of analysis.
Opportunities for such an analysis are afforded by these groups of cultivated varieties, of
which some members show a single distinguishing quality, or a number of them.

[154]

LECTURE VI

STABILITY AND REAL ATAVISM

It is generally believed that varieties are principally distinguished from species by their
inconstancy. This conception is derived from some special cases and transferred to others,
and in its common form this belief must have originated from the confusion which exists as
to the meaning of the term variety. It is true that vegetative varieties as a rule run back,
when propagated by seeds; they are an obvious instance of inconstancy. In the second place
we have considered the group of inconstant or sporting varieties, which of course we must exclude
when studying the stability of other types. However, even these sporting varieties are unstable
only to a certain degree, and in a broader sense will prove to be as true to their character
as the most constant types.

Having separated these two groups, which include also the wide range of hybrid forms, we may
next consider only those varieties of pure origin, and ordinarily propagated by seeds, [155]
which have been discussed in former chapters. Their general character lies in their fidelity
to type, and in the fact that this is single, and not double, as in the sporting varieties.

But the current belief is, that they are only true to their peculiarities to a certain degree,
and that from time to time, and not rarely, they revert to the type from which they have arisen.
Such reversion is supposed to prove that they are mere varieties, and at the same time to indicate
empirically the species from which they have sprung.

In the next lecture we shall examine critically the evidence on which this assumption rests.
Before doing so however, it will be necessary to collate the cases in which there is no reversion
at all, or in which the reversion is absent at least in experimental and pure sowings.

In the present state of our knowledge it is very difficult to decide, whether or not true reversion
occurs in constant varieties. If it does occur, it surely does so very rarely and only under
unusual circumstances, or in particular individuals. However when such individuals are multiplied
by buds and especially when they are the only representatives of their type, the reversion,
though theoretically rare, will be shown by nearly every specimen of the variety. Examples
of this will be given below.

[156] They are generally called atavists or reversionists, but even these terms are sometimes
used in a different sense.

Lastly it is to be said that the empirical and experimental evidence as to the question of
constancy is not as extensive as it should be. The experimental conditions are seldom described,
and it is only recently that an interest in the matter has been awakened. Much remains to be
done. Among other things the innumerable varieties of trees, shrubs and perennial herbs should
be tested as to their constancy when grown from purely fertilized seeds. Many of them may be
included among the number that sport constantly.

Leaving aside the doubtful or insufficiently studied cases, we may now turn our attention to
the facts that prove the absolute stability of a large number of varieties, at least as far
as such completeness can be attained by experiment or observation.

The best proof is afforded by the varieties which grow wild in localities where they are quite
isolated from the species, and where for this reason, no possibility of crossing disturbs the
significance of the proof. As one instance the rayless form of the wild camomile, or the Matricaria
Chamomilla discoidea may be mentioned. Many systematists have been so strongly [157] impressed
with its absolute constancy and its behavior as an ordinary species, that they have elevated
it, as it is called, to the rank of a species. As such it is described under the name of Matricaria
discoidea DC. It is remarkable for its rapid and widespread distribution, as of late years
it has become naturalized in different parts of America and of Europe, where it is to be seen
especially in France and in Norway. Experimentally I raised in succeeding years between 1000
and 2000 seedlings, but observed no trace of reversion, either in the strongest or in the numerous
very small and weak individuals which appeared in the cultures.

The tansy-ragwort or Senecio Jacobaea may be chosen as a second instance. It is a perennial
herb with short rootstocks and stout stems bearing numerous short-peduncled heads in large
compact corymb; it multiplies itself abundantly by seeds and is very common on the sand dunes
of Holland. It has two forms, differing only in the occurrence or the lack of the ray florets.
But these two varieties occupy different localities and are even limited to different provinces.
As far as I have been able to ascertain on numerous excursions during a series of years, they
never sport, and are only intermingled on the outskirts of their habitats. The rayless form
is generally considered as the [158] variety but it is quite as stable as the radiate species.

The radiate varieties of marigold, quoted in a former lecture, seem to be equally constant,
when growing far away from their prototypes. I sowed the seeds of a single plant of the radiate
form of Bidens cernua, and found all of the seedlings came true, and in the next year I had
from their seed between 2,000 and 3,000 flowering individuals, all equally radiate. Many species
of composites have been tried, and they are all constant. On the other hand rare sports of
this kind have been observed by Murr and other authors.

Many kinds of vegetables and of fruits give instances of stability. White strawberries, green
grapes, white currants, crisped lettuce, crisped parsley and some other crisped forms may be
cited. The spinage without prickles is a widely known instance. White-flowered flax never reverts
to the blue prototype, if kept pure. Sugar-peas and sugar-corn afford further instances. Strawberries
without runners have come true from seed ever since their first appearance, over a hundred
years ago.

Many garden-varieties, the stability of which under ordinary circumstances is doubtful, because
of their being sown too close to other varieties of the same species, have been tested in [159]
respect to their stability by different writers and at different times. In doing this it is
plain that it is very essential to be sure of the purity of the seed. Specimens must be grown
in positions isolated from their allies, and if possible be pollinated artificially with the
exclusion of the visits of insects. This may be done in different ways. If it is a rare species,
not cultivated in the neighborhood, it is often sufficient to make sure of this fact. Pollen
may be conveyed by bees from distances of some ten or twenty meters, or in rare cases from
some hundred meters and more, but a greater distance is ordinarily sufficient for isolation.
If the flowers fertilize themselves, as is more often the case than is generally supposed,
or if it is easy to pollinate them artificially, with their own pollen or in small groups of
similar individuals, the best way is to isolate them by means of close coverings. When flowering,
the plants are as a rule too large to be put under bell-glasses, and moreover such coverings
would keep the air moist, and cause the flower-buds to be thrown off. The best coverings are
of netting, or of canvas of sufficiently wide mesh, although after a long experience I greatly
prefer cages of fine iron-wire, which are put around and over the whole plant or group of plants,
and fastened securely and tightly to the ground.

[160] Paper bags also may be made use of. They are slipped over the flowering branches, and
bound together around the twigs, thus enclosing the flowers. It is necessary to use prepared
papers, in order that they may resist rain and wind. The best sort, and the one that I use
almost exclusively in my fertilization-experiments, is made of parchment-paper. This is a wood-pulp
preparation, freed artificially from the so-called wood-substance or lignin. Having covered
the flowers with care, and having gathered the seeds free from intermixtures and if possible
separately for each single individual, it only remains to sow them in quantities that will
yield the greatest possible number of individuals. Reversions are supposed to be rare and small
groups of seedlings of course would not suffice to bring them to light. Only sowings of many
hundreds or thousands of individuals are decisive. Such sowings can be made in one year, or
can be extended over a series of years and of generations. Hildebrand and Hoffman have preferred
the last method, and so did Hofmeister and many others. Hildebrand sowed the white hyacinth,
and the white varieties of the larkspur, the stock and the sweet pea. Hoffman cultivated the
white flax and many other varieties and Hofmeister extended his sowings [161] over thirty years
with the white variety of the yellow foxglove (Digitalis parviflora). White-flowered varieties
of perennial garden plants were used in my own experiments. I bought the plants, flowered them
under isolation in the way described above, gathered the seeds from each individual separately
and sowed them in isolated groups, keeping many hundreds and in some cases above a thousand
plants up to the time of flowering. Among them I found only one inconstant variety, the white
form of the yellow columbine, Aquilegia chrysantha. It evidently belonged to the group of sporting
varieties already referred to. All others came absolutely true to type without any exception.
The species experimented with, were Campanula persicifolia, Hyssopus officinalis, Lobelia syphilitica,
Lychnis chalcedonica, Polemonium dissectum, Salvia sylvestris and some others. Tested in the
same way I found the white varieties of the following annual plants also quite true: Chrysanthemum
coronarium, Godetia amoena, Linum usitatissimum, Phlox drummondi, and Silene Armeria. To these
may be added the white hemlock stork's-bill (Erodium cicutarium album) which grows very abundantly
in some parts of my fatherland, and is easily recognizable by its pure green leaves and stems,
even when not flowering. I cultivated it, in large numbers [162] during five succeeding generations,
but was never able to find even the slightest indication of a reversion to the red prototype.
The scarlet pimpernel or Anagallis arvensis has a blue variety which is absolutely constant.
Even in Britton and Brown's "Flora," which rarely enumerates varieties, it is mentioned as
being probably a distinct species. Eight hundred blooming seedlings were obtained from isolated
parents, all of the same blue color. The New Zealand spinage (Tetragonia expansa) has a greenish
and a brownish variety, the red color extending over the whole foliage, including the stems
and the branches. I have tried both of them during several years, and they never sported into
each other. I raised more than 5,000 seedlings, from the different seeds of one lot of the
green variety in succeeding years, but neither those germinating in the first year, nor the
others coming into activity after two, three or four years of repose gave any sign of the red
color of the original species.

It is an old custom to designate intermediate forms as hybrids, especially when both the types
are widely known and the intermediates rare. Many persons believe that in doing so, they are
giving an explanation of the rarer forms. But since the laws of hybridism are coming to be
known we shall have to break with [163] all such usages. So for instance there are numerous
flowers which are of a dark red or a dark blue color, and which, besides a white variety, have
a pink or a pale blue form. Such pale varieties are of exactly the same value as others, and
on testing they are found to be equally stable. So for instance the pink variety of the Sweet
William (Silene Armeria rosea), the Clarkia pulchella carnea and the pale variety of the corn-cockle,
called usually Agrostemma Githago nicaeensis or even simply A. nicaeensis. The latter variety
I found pure during ten succeeding generations. Another notable stable intermediate form is
the poppy bearing the Danish flag (Papaver somniferum Danebrog). It is an old variety, and
absolutely pure when cultivated separately. A long list of other instances might easily be given.

Many garden-varieties, that are still universally prized and cultivated are very old. It is
curious to note how often such forms have been introduced as novelties. The common foxglove
is one of the best examples. It has a monstrous variety, which is very showy because it bears
on the summit of its raceme and branches, large erect cup-shaped flowers, which have quite
a different aspect from the normal thimbleshaped side-blossoms. These flowers are ordinarily
described as belonging to the anomaly [164] known as "peloria," or regular form of a normally
symmetric type; they are large and irregular on the stems and the vigorous branches but slender
and quinate on the weaker twigs. Their beauty and highly interesting anomalous character has
been the cause of their being described many times, and nearly always as a novelty; they have
been recently re-introduced into horticulture as such, though they were already cultivated
before the middle of the last century. About that time very good descriptions with plates were
published in the journal "Flora" by Vrolik, but afterwards they seem to have been forgotten.
The peloric variety of the foxglove always comes true from seed, though in the strict sense
of the word which we have chosen for our discussion, it does not seem to be a constant and
pure variety.

It is very interesting to compare old botanical books, or even old drawings and engravings
containing figures of anomalous plants. The celebrated Pinacothec of Munich contains an old
picture by Holbein (1495-1543) representing St. Sebastian in a flower-garden. Of the plants
many are clearly recognizable, and among others there is one of the "one-leaved" variety of
the strawberry, which may still be met with in botanical gardens. In the year 1671 a Dutch
botanist, Abraham Munting published [165] a large volume on garden-plants, containing a great
number of very good engravings. Most of them of course show normal plants, but intermixed with
these are varieties, that are still in cultivation and therefore must be at least two centuries
old. Others, though not figured, are easily recognized by their names and descriptions. The
cockscomb is the most widely known, but many white or double flowered varieties were already
cultivated at that time. The striped Jalappa, the crested Sedum, the fasciated crown-imperial,
white strawberries, red gooseberries and many others were known to Munting.

Some varieties are as old as culture itself, and it is generally known that the Romans cultivated
the white form of the opium-poppy and used the foliage of the red variety of the sugarbeet
as a vegetable.

In our time flowers and fruits are changing nearly as rapidly as the fancies and tastes of
men. Every year new forms are introduced and usurp the place of older ones. Many are soon forgotten.
But if we look at old country gardens, a goodly number of fine and valued old sorts are still
to be found. It would be worth while to make special collections of living plants of old varieties,
which surely would be a good and interesting work and bring about a conviction [166] of the
stability of pure strains. Coming now to the other side of the question, we may consider those
cases of reversion which have been recorded from time to time, and which always have been considered
as direct proofs of the varietal character of the reverting form. Reversion means the falling
back or returning to another type, and the word itself expresses the idea that this latter
type is the form from which the variety has arisen.

Some instances of atavism of this kind are well known, as they are often repeated by individuals
that are multiplied by buds or by grafting. Before looking attentively into the different features
of the many cases of rare reversions it will be advisable to quote a few examples.

The flowering-currant of the Pacific Coast or North American scarlet ribes (Ribes sanguineum),
a very popular ornamental shrub, will serve as a good example. It is prized because of its
brilliant red racemes of flowers which blossom early in the spring, before the appearance of
the leaves. From this species a white form has arisen, which is an old and widely cultivated
one, but not so highly prized because of its pale flowers. These are not of a pure white, but
have retained a faint reddish hue. The young twigs and the stalks of the [167] leaves afford
an instance of correlated variability since in the species the red color shows itself clearly
mixed with the green, while in the variety this tinge is wholly wanting.

Occasionally this white-flowered currant reverts back to the original red type and the reversion
takes place in the bud. One or two buds on a shrub bearing perhaps a thousand bunches of white
flowers produce twigs and leaves in which the red pigment is noticeable and the flowers of
which become brightly colored. If such a twig is left on the shrub, it may grow further, ramify
and evolve into a larger group of branches. All of them keep true to the old type. Once reverted,
the branches remain forever atavistic. It is a very curious sight, these small groups of red
branches among the many white ones. And for this reason attention is often called to it, and
more than once I myself have had the opportunity of noting its peculiarities. It seems quite
certain that by planting such shrubs in a garden, we may rely upon seeing sooner or later some
new buds reverting to the prototype.

Very little attention seems hitherto to have been given to this curious phenomenon, though
in many respects it deserves a closer investigation. The variety is said to have originated
from seed in Scotland, many years ago, and [168] seems to be propagated only by cuttings or
by grafting. If this is true, all specimens must be considered as constituting together only
one individual, notwithstanding their wide distribution in the gardens and parks of so many
countries. This induces me to suppose, that the tendency to reversion is not a character of
the variety as such, but rather a peculiarity of this one individual. In other words it seems
probable that when the whitish variety arises a second time from the red species, it is not
at all necessary that it should exhibit this same tendency to revert. Or to put it still in
another way, I think that we may suppose that a variety, which might be produced repeatedly
from the same original stock, would only in rare individuals have a tendency to revert, and
in most cases would be as absolutely constant as the species itself.

Such a conception would give us a distinct insight into the cause of the rarity of these reversions.
Many varieties of shrubs and trees have originated but once or twice. Most of them must therefore,
if our supposition is correct, be expected to be stable and only a few may be expected to be
liable to reversions.

Among the conifers many very good cases of reversions by buds are to be found in gardens and
glasshouses. They behave exactly like the whitish currant. But as the varietal characters [169]
are chiefly found in the foliage and in the branches, these aberrations are to be seen on the
plants during the whole year. Moreover they are in some cases much more numerous than in the
first instance. The Cryptomeria of Japan has a variety with twigs resembling ropes. This is
not caused by a twisting, but only by a curvature of the needles in such a way that they seem
to grow in spiral lines around the twigs. This variety often reverts to the type with widely
spread, straight needles. And on many a specimen four, five, or more reverted branches may
be seen on different parts of the same shrub. Still more widely cultivated is the shrub called
Cephalotaxus pedunculata fastigiata, and more commonly known under its old name of Podocarpus
koraiana. It is the broomlike variety of a species, nearly allied to the common American and
European species of yew, (Taxus minor and T. baccata). It is a low shrub, with broadly linear
leaves of a clear green. In the species the leaves are arranged in two rows, one to the left
and one to the right of the horizontally growing and widely spreading branches. In the variety
the branches are erect and the leaves inserted on all sides. When sporting, it returns to the
bilateral prototype and flat wings of fan-shaped twigs are produced laterally on its dense
broom-like tufts.

[170] Wherever this variety is cultivated the same reversion may be seen; it is produced abundantly,
and even under seemingly normal circumstances. But as in the case of the Ribes all the specimens
are derived by buds from a single original plant. The variety was introduced from Japan about
the year 1860, but is probably much older. Nothing is known as to its real origin. It never
bears flowers or fruits. It is curious to note that the analogous variety of the European yew,
Taxus baccata fastigiata, though much more commonly cultivated than the Cephalotaxus, never
reverts, at least as far as I have been able to ascertain. This clearly corroborates the explanation
given above.

After considering these rare instances of more widely known reversions, we may now examine
the question of atavism from a broader point of view. But in doing so it should once more be
remembered, that all cases of hybridism and also all varieties sporting annually or frequently,
are to be wholly excluded. Only the very rare occurrence of instances of atavism in varieties
that are for the rest known to be absolutely constant, is to be considered.

Atavism or reversion is the falling back to a prototype. But what is a prototype? We may take
the word in a physiologic or in a systematic sense. Physiologically the signification is a
[171] very narrowly restricted one; and includes only those ancestors from which a form is
known to have been derived. But such evidence is of course historic. If a variety has been
observed to spring from a definite species, and if the circumstances have been sufficiently
ascertained not to leave the slightest doubt as to its pure origin, and if moreover all the
evidence has been duly recorded, we may say that the origin of the variety is historically
known. In most cases we must be content with the testimony, given somewhat later, and recorded
after the new variety had the opportunity of showing its greater merits.

If it now happens that such a variety of recorded origin should occasionally revert to its
parent-species, we have all we can wish for, in the way of a thoroughly proved case of atavism.
But such instances are very rare, as the birth of most varieties has only been very imperfectly
controlled.

Next to this comes the systematic relation of a variety to its species. The historic origin
of the variety may be obscure, or may simply be forgotten. But the distinguishing marks are
of the order described in our last lecture, either in the positive or in the negative direction,
and on this ground the rarer form is considered to be a variety of the more wide-spread one.
If [172] now the presumed variety sports and runs over to the presumed type, the probability
of the supposed relation is evidently enhanced. But it is manifest that the explanation rests
upon the results of comparative studies, and not upon direct observations of the phenomena
themselves.

The nearer the relations between the two types in question, the less exposed to doubt and criticism
are the conclusions. But the domain of atavism is not restricted to the cases described. Quite
on the contrary the facts that strike us most forcibly as being reversions are those that are
apt to give us an insight into the systematic affinity of a higher degree. We are disposed
to make use of them in our attempts to perfect the natural system and to remould it in such
a way as to become a pedigree of the related groups. Such cases of atavism no doubt occur,
but the anomalies referred to them must be interpreted merely on the ground of our assumptions
as to the relative places in the system to be assigned to the different forms.

Though such instances cannot be considered as belonging strictly to the subject we are dealing
with, I think it may be as well to give an example, especially as it affords an occasion for
referring to the highly important researches of Heinricher on the variability and atavistic
[173] tendencies of the pale blue flag or Iris pallida. The flowers of the blue flags have
a perianth of six segments united below into a tube. The three outer parts are dilated and
spreading, or reflexed, while the three inner usually stand erect, but in most species are
broad and colored like the outer ones. Corresponding to the outer, perianth-segments are the
three stamens and the three, petal-like divisions of the style, each bearing a transverse stigma
immediately above the anther. They are pollinated by bumble-bees, and in some instances by
flies of the genus Rhingia, which search for the honey, brush the pollen out of the anthers
and afterwards deposit it on the stigma. According to systematic views of the monocotyledons
the original prototype of the genus Iris must have had a whorl of six equal, or nearly equal
perianth-segments and six stamens, such as are now seen in the more primitive types of the
family of the lilies, as for instance in the lilies themselves, the tulips, hyacinths and others.
As to the perianth this view is supported by the existence of one species, the Iris falcifolia,
the perianth of which consists of six equal parts. But species with six stamens are wholly
lacking. Heinricher however, in cultivating some anomalous forms of Iris pallida, succeeded
in filling out this gap and in producing [174] flowers with a uniform perianth and six stamens,
recalling thereby the supposed ancestral type. The way in which he got these was as follows:
he started from some slight deviations observed in the flowers of the pale species, sowed the
seeds in large numbers and selected from the seedlings only those which clearly showed anomalies
in the expected atavistic direction. By repeating this during several generations he at last
reached his goal and was able to give reality to the prototype, which formerly was only a hypothetical
one. The Iris kaempferi, a large-flowered Japanese species much cultivated in gardens, is very
variable in the number of the different parts of its flowers, and may in some instances be
seen even with six stamens. If studied in the same way as Heinricher's iris, it no doubt will
yield highly interesting and confirmatory results.

Many other instances of such systematic atavism could be given, and every botanist can easily
add some from memory. Many anomalies, occurring spontaneously, are evidently due to the same
principle, but it would take too long to describe them.

Reversion may occur either by buds or by seeds. It is highly probable that it occurs more readily
by sexual than by asexual propagation. But if we restrict the discussion to the limits [175]
hitherto observed, seed-reversions must be said to be extremely rare. Or rather cases which
are sufficiently certain to be relied upon, are very rare, and perhaps wholly lacking. Most
of the instances, recorded by various writers, are open to question. Doubts exist as to the
purity of the seeds and the possibility of some unobserved cross disturbing the results.

In the next lecture we shall deal in general with the ordinary causes and results of such crosses.
We shall then see that they are so common and occur so regularly under ordinary circumstances
that we can never rely on the absolute purity of any seeds, if the impossibility of an occasional
cross has not been wholly excluded, either by the circumstances themselves, or by experimental
precautions taken during the flowering period.

For these reasons cases of atavism given without recording the circumstances, or the precautions
that guarantee the purity of the fertilization, should always be disregarded. And moreover
another proof should always be demanded. The parent which yielded the seeds might be itself
a hybrid and liable to reversions by the ordinary laws of the splitting up of hybrids. Such
cases should likewise be discarded, since they bring in confusing elements. If we review the
long list of recorded cases by these [176] strict methods of criticism very few instances will
be found that satisfy legitimate demands. On this ground it is by far safer in the present
state of our knowledge, to accept bud-variations only as direct proofs of true atavism. And
even these may not always be relied on, as some hybrids are liable to split up in a vegetative
way, and in doing so to give rise to bud-variations that are in many respects apparently similar
to cases of atavism. But fortunately such instances are as yet very rare.

After this discussion it would be bold indeed to give instances of seed-atavism, and I believe
that it will be better to refrain wholly from doing so.

Many instances of so-called atavism are of purely morphologic nature. The most interesting
cases are those furnished by the forms which some plants bear only while young, and which evidently
connect them with allied species, in which the same features may be seen in the adult state.
Some species of the genus Acacia bear bipinnate leaves, while others have no leaves at all,
but bear broadened and flattened petioles instead. The second type is presumed to be descended
from the first by the loss of the leaflets and the modification of the stalks into flat and
simple phyllodes. But many of them are liable to recall this primitive form [177] when very
young, in the first two or three, or sometimes in eight or ten primary leaves. These leaves
are small because of the weakness of the young plant and therefore often more or less reduced
in structure. But they are usually strictly bipinnate and thereby give testimony as to their
descent from species which bear such leaves throughout their life.

Other similar cases could be given, but this will suffice. They once more show how necessary
it is to separate the different cases, thrown together until now, under this general name of
atavism. It would be far better to give them all special names, and as long as these are not
available we must be cautious not to be misguided by the name, and especially not to confuse
different phenomena with one another, because at the present time they bear the same names.

Taking into consideration the relatively numerous restrictions resulting from this discussion,
we will now make a hasty survey of some of the more notable and generally acknowledged cases
of atavism by bud-propagation. But it should be repeated once more that most of the highly
cultivated plants, grown as vegetables, or for their fruit or flowers, have so many crosses
in their ancestry, that it seems better to exclude them from all considerations, in which purity
of [178] descent is a requisite. By so doing, we exclude most of the facts which were until
now generally relied upon. For the roses, the hyacinths, the tulips, the chrysanthemums always
have furnished the largest contributions to the demonstrations of bud-variation. But they have
been crossed so often, that doubt as to the purity of the descent of any single form may recur,
and may destroy the usefulness of their many recorded cases of bud-variation for the demonstration
of real atavism. The same assertion holds good in many other cases, as with Azalea and Camellia.
And the striped varieties of these genera belong to the group of ever-sporting forms, and therefore
will be considered later on. So it is with carnations and pinks, which occasionally vary by
layering, and of which some kinds are so uncertain in character that they are called by floriculturists
"catch-flowers." On the other hand there is a larger group of cases of reversion by buds, which
is probably not of hybrid nature, nor due to innate inconstancy of the variety, but must be
considered as pure atavism. I refer to the bud-variations of so many of our cultivated varieties
of shrubs and trees. Many of them are cultivated because of their foliage. They are propagated
by grafting, and in most cases it is probable that all the numerous specimens [179] of the
same variety have been derived in this way from one primitive, aberrant individual. We may
disregard variegated leaves, spotted or marked with white or yellow, because they are too inconstant
types.

We may next turn our attention to the varieties of trees with cut leaves, as the oakleaved
Laburnum, the parsley-leaved vine and the fern-leaved birch. Here the margin of the leaves
is deeply cut and divided by many incisions, which sometimes change only the outer parts of
the blade, but in other cases may go farther and reach, or nearly reach, the midvein, and change
the simple leaf into a seemingly compound structure. The anomaly may even lead to the almost
complete loss of all the chorophyll-tissue and the greater part of the lateral veins, as in
the case of the cut-leaved beech or Fagus sylvatica pectinata.

Such varieties are often apt to revert by buds to the common forms. The cut-leaved beech sometimes
reverts partially only, and the branches often display the different forms of cut-leaved, fern-like,
oak-leaved and other variously shaped leaves on the same twigs. But this is merely due to the
wide variability of the degree of fissure and is to be considered only as a fluctuation between
somewhat widely distant extremes, which may even apparently include [180] the form of the common
beech-leaves. It is not a bud-variation at all, and it is to be met with quite commonly while
the true reversions by buds are very rare and are of the nature of sports appearing suddenly
and remaining constant on the same twig. Analogous phenomena of wide variability with true
reversion may be seen in the variety of the European hornbeam called Carpinus Betulus heterophylla.
The leaves of this tree generally show the greatest diversity in form. Some other cases have
been brought together by Darwin. In the first place a subvariety of the weeping-willow with
leaves rolled up into a spiral coil. The barberry (Berberis) offers another case; it has a
well known variety with seedless fruit, which can be propagated by cuttings or layers, but
its runners are said always to revert to the common form, and to produce ordinary berries with
seeds. Most of the cases referred to by Darwin, however, seem to be doubtful and cannot be
considered as true proofs of atavism until more is known about the circumstances under which
they were produced.

Red or brown-leaved varieties of trees and shrubs also occasionally produce green-leaved branches,
and in this way revert to the type [181] from which they must evidently have arisen. Instances
are on record of the hazel, Corylus Avellana, of the allied Corylus tubulosa, of the red beech,
the brown birch and of some other purple varieties. Even the red bananas, which bear fruits
without seeds and therefore have no other way of being propagated than by buds, have produced
a green variety with yellow fruits. The Hortensia of our gardens is another instance of a sterile
form which has been observed to throw out a branch with cymes bearing in their center the usual
small staminate and pistillate flowers instead of the large radiate and neutral corollas of
the variety, thereby returning to the original wild type. Crisped weeping-willows, crisped
parsley and others have reverted in a similar manner.

All such cases are badly in need of a closer investigation. And as they occur only occasionally,
or as it is commonly stated, by accident, the student of nature should be prepared to examine
carefully any case which might present itself to him. Many phases of this difficult problem
could no doubt be solved in this way. First of all the question arises as to whether the case
is one of real atavism, or is only seemingly so, being due to hybrid or otherwise impure descent
of the varying individual, and secondly whether it may be only an instance of the regularly
[182] occurring so-called atavism of the sporting varieties with which we shall deal in a later
lecture. If it proves to be real atavism and rare, the case should be accurately described
and figured, or photographed if possible; and the exact position of the reverting bud should
be ascertained. Very likely the so-called dormant or resting buds are more liable to reversions
than the primary ones in the arils of the leaves of young twigs. Then the characters of the
atavistic branches should be minutely compared with those of the presumed ancestor; they may
be quite identical with them or slightly divergent, as has been asserted in some instances.
The atavism may be complete in one case, but more or less incomplete in others. By far the
most interesting point is the question, as to what is to be expected from the seeds of such
an atavistic branch. Will they keep true to the reverted character, or return to the characters
of the plant which bears the retrograde branch? Will all of them do so, or only part of them,
and how large a part? It is very astonishing that this question should still be unsolved where
so many individual trees bear atavistic branches that remain on them through long series of
years. But then many such branches do not flower at all, or if they flower and bear seed, no
care is taken to prevent [183] cross-fertilization with the other flowers of the same plant,
and the results have no scientific value. For anyone who cares to work with the precautions
prescribed by science, a wide field is here open for investigation, because old reverted branches
may be met with much less rarely than new ones.

Finally the possibility is always to be considered that the tendency to bud-reversions may
be a special feature of some individuals, and may not be met with in others of the same variety.
I have spoken of this before. For the practical student it indicates that a specimen, once
observed to produce atavistic buds, may be expected to do the same thing again. And then there
is a very good chance that by combining this view with the idea that dormant buds are more
apt to revert than young ones, we may get at a method for further investigation, if we recur
to the practice of pruning. By cutting away the young twigs in the vicinity of dormant buds,
we may incite these to action. Evidently we are not to expect that in so doing they will all
become atavistic. For this result is not at all assured; on the contrary, all that we might
hope to attain would be the possibility of some of them being induced to sport in the desired
direction.

Many questions in scientific research can only [184] be answered by long and arduous work in
well equipped laboratories; they are not to be attempted by every one. But there are other
problems which the most complete of institutions are not able to study if opportunity is not
offered them, and such opportunities are apt to occur more often in fields, gardens, parks,
woods and plains, than in the relatively small experimental gardens of even the largest institution.
Therefore, whosoever has the good fortune to find such sports, should never allow the occasion
to pass without making an investigation that may bring results of very great importance to science.

[185]

LECTURE VII

FALSE ATAVISM OR VICINISM

About the middle of the last century Louis de Vilmorin showed that it was possible to subject
plants to the methods of amelioration of races then in use for domestic animals, and since
that time atavism has played a large part in all breeding-processes. It was considered to be
the greatest enemy of the breeder, and was generally spoken of as a definite force, working
against and protracting the endeavors of the horticulturist.

No clear conception as to its true nature had been formulated, and even the propriety of designating
the observed phenomena by the term atavism seemed doubtful. Duchesne used this word some decades
ago to designate those cases in which species or varieties revert spontaneously, or from unknown
internal causes, to some long-lost characters of their ancestors. Duchesne's definition was
evidently a sharp and useful one, since it developed for the first time the idea of latent
or dormant qualities, [186] formerly active, and awaiting probably through centuries an occasion
to awaken, and to display the lost characters.

Cases of apparent reversion were often seen in nurseries, especially in flower culture, which
under ordinary circumstances are rarely wholly pure, but always sport more or less into the
colors and forms of allied varieties. Such sporting individuals have to be extirpated regularly,
otherwise the whole variety would soon lose its type and its uniformity and run over to some
other form in cultivation in the vicinity. For this reason atavism in nurseries causes much
care and labor, and consequently is to be dealt with as a very important factor.

From time to time the idea has suggested itself to some of the best authorities on the amelioration
of plants, that this atavism was not due to an innate tendency, but, in many cases at least,
was produced by crosses between neighboring varieties. It is especially owing to Verlot that
this side of the question was brought forward. But breeders as a rule have not attached much
importance to this supposition, chiefly because of the great practical difficulties attending
any attempt to guard the species of the larger cultures against intermixture with other varieties.
Bees and humble-bees fly from bud to bud, and carry the pollen from one [187 ] sort to another,
and separation by great distances would be required to avoid this source of impurity. Unfortunately
the arrangements and necessities of large cultures make it impossible to isolate the allied
varieties from each other.

From a theoretical point of view the origin of these impurities is a highly important question.
If the breeders' atavism is due to crosses, and only to this cause, it has no bearing at all
on the question of the constancy of varieties. And the general belief, that varieties are distinguished
from true species by their repeated reversion and that even such reversibility is the real
distinction of a variety, would not hold.

For this reason I have taken much trouble in ascertaining the circumstances which attend this
form of atavism. I have visited a number of the leading nurseries of Europe, tested their products
in various ways, and made some experiments on the unavoidable conditions of hybridizing and
on their effect on the ensuing generations. These investigations have led me to the conclusion,
that atavism, as it is generally described, always or nearly always is due to hybridization,
and therefore it is to be considered as untrue or false atavism.

True atavism, or reversion caused by an innate latent  tendency, seems to be very rare, [188]
and limited to such cases as we have spoken of under our last heading. And since the definition,
given to this term by its author, Duchesne, is generally accepted in scientific works, it seems
better not to use it in another sense, but rather to replace it in such cases by another term.
For this purpose I propose the word vicinism, derived from the Latin vicinus or neighbor, as
indicating the sporting of a variety under the influence of others in its vicinity. Used in
this way, this term has the same bearing as the word atavism of the breeders, but it has the
advantage of indicating the true cause thereof.

It is well known that the term variability is commonly employed in the broadest possible sense.
No single phenomenon can be designated by this name, unless some primary restriction be given.
Atavism and vicinism are both cases of variability, but in wholly different sense. For this
reason it may be as well, to insert here a short survey of the general meanings to be conveyed
by the term variation. It implies in the first place the occurrence of a wide range of forms
and types, irrespective of their origin, and in the second place the process of the change
in such forms. In the first signification it is nearly identical with polymorphy, or richness
of types, especially so when these [189] types are themselves quite stable, or when it is not
at all intended to raise the question of their stability. In scientific works it is commonly
used to designate the occurrence of subspecies or varieties, and the same is the case in the
ordinary use of the term when dealing with cultivated plants. A species may consist of larger
or smaller groups of such units, and they may be absolutely constant, never sporting if hybridization
is precluded, and nevertheless it may be called highly variable. The opium-poppy affords a
good instance. It "varies" in height, in color of foliage and flowers; the last are often double
or laciniated; it may have white or bluish seeds, the capsules may open themselves or remain
closed and so on. But every single variety is absolutely constant, and never runs into another,
when the flowers are artificially pollinated and the visits of insects excluded. So it is with
many other species. They are at the same time wholly stable and very variable.

The terms variation and variety are used frequently when speaking of hybrids. By crossing forms,
which are already variable in the sense just mentioned, it is easy to multiply the number of
the types, and even in crossing pure forms the different characters may be combined in different
ways, the resulting combinations [190] yielding new, and very often, valuable varieties. But
it is manifest that this form of variation is of quite another nature from the variations of
pure races. Many hybrid varieties are quite constant, and remain true to their type if no further
crosses are made; many others are artificially propagated only in a vegetative way, and for
this reason are always found true. Hybrid varieties as a rule were formerly confused with pure
varieties, and in many instances our knowledge as to their origin is quite insufficient for
sharp distinctions. To every student of nature it is obvious, that crossing and pure variability
are wholly distinct groups of phenomena, which should never be treated under the same head,
or under the same name.

Leaving aside polymorphy, we may now discuss those cases of variability, in which the changes
themselves, and not only their final results play a part. Of such changes two types exist.
First, the ever-recurring variability, never absent in any large group of individuals, and
determining the differences which are always to be seen between parents and their children,
or between the children themselves. This type is commonly called "individual variability" and
since this term also has still other meanings, it has of late become customary to use instead
the term "fluctuating variability." [191] And to avoid the repetition of the latter word it
is called "fluctuation." In contrast to these fluctuations are the so-called sports or single
varieties, not rarely denominated spontaneous variations, and for which I propose to use the
term "mutations." They are of very rare occurrence and are to be considered as sudden and definite
steps.

Lastly, we have to consider those varieties, which vary in a much wider range than the ordinary
ones, and seem to fluctuate between two opposite extremes, as for instance variegated leaves,
cultivated varieties with variegated or striped flowers, double flowers and some other anomalies.
They are eversporting and ever-returning from one type to the other. If however, we take the
group of these extremes and their intermediates as a whole, this group remains constant during
the succeeding generations. Here we find once more an instance of the seemingly contradictory
combination of high variability and absolute constancy. It means that the range of variability
has quite definite limits, which in the common course of things, are never transgressed.

We may infer therefore that the word variability has such a wide range of meanings that it
ought never be used without explanation. [192] Nothing indeed, is more variable than the signification
of the term variable itself.

For this reason, we will furthermore designate all variations under the influence of neighbors
with the new and special term "vicinism." It always indicates the result of crossing.

Leaving this somewhat lengthy terminological discussion, we now come to the description of
the phenomenon itself. In visiting the plantations of the seedsmen in summer and examining
the large fields of garden-flowers from which seed is to be gathered, it is very rare to find
a plot quite pure. On the contrary, occasional impurities are the rule. Every plot shows anomalous
individuals, red or white flowers among a field of blue, normal among laciniated, single among
double and so on. The most curious instance is afforded by dwarf varieties, where in the midst
of hundreds and thousands of small individuals of the same height, some specimens show twice
their size. So for instance, among the dwarfs of the larkspur, Delphinium Ajacis.

Everywhere gardeners are occupied in destroying these "atavists," as they call them. When in
full bloom the plants are pulled up and thrown aside. Sometimes the degree of impurity is so
high, that great piles of discarded plants of the same species lie about the [193] paths, as
I have seen at Erfurt in the ease of numerous varieties of the Indian cress or Tropaeolum.

Each variety is purified at the time when it shows its characters most clearly. With vegetables,
this is done long before flowering, but with flowers only when in full bloom, and with fruits,
usually after fertilization has been accomplished. It needs no demonstration to show that this
difference in method must result in very diverging degrees of purity.

We will confine ourselves to a consideration of the flowers, and ask what degree of purity
may be expected as the result of the elimination of the anomalous plants during the period
of blooming.

Now it is evident that the colors and forms of the flowers can only be clearly distinguished,
when they are fully displayed. Furthermore it is impossible to destroy every single aberrant
specimen as soon as it is seen. On the contrary, the gardener must wait until all or nearly
all the individuals of the same variety have displayed their characters, as only in this way
can all diverging specimens be eliminated by a single inspection. Unfortunately the insects
do not wait for this selection. They fertilize the flowers from the beginning, and the damage
will have been done [194] long before the day of inspection comes around. Crosses are unavoidable
and hybrid seeds will unavoidably come into the harvest. Their number may be limited by an
early eradication of the vicinists, or by the elimination of the first ripe seeds before the
beginning of the regular harvest, or by other devices. But some degree of impurity will remain
under ordinary circumstances.

It seems quite superfluous to give more details. In any case in which the selection is not
done before the blooming period, some impurities must result. Even if it is done before that
time, errors may occur, and among hundreds and thousands of individuals a single anomalous
one may escape observation.

The conclusion is, that flower seeds as they are offered in commerce, are seldom found absolutely
pure. Every gardener knows that he will have to weed out aberrant plants in order to be sure
of the purity of his beds. I tested a large number of samples of seeds for purity, bought directly
from the best seed growers. Most of them were found to contain admixtures and wholly pure samples
were very rare.

I will now give some illustrative examples. From seeds of a yellow snapdragon, I got one red-flowered
specimen among half a hundred [195] yellow ones, and from the variety "Delila" of the same
species two red ones, a single white and two belonging to another variety called "Firefly."
Calliopsis tinctoria has three varieties, the ordinary type, a brown-flowered one and one with
tubular rays. Seeds of each of these three sorts ordinarily contain a few belonging to the
others. Iberis umbellata rosea often gives some white and violet examples. The "Swan" variety
of the opium-poppy, a dwarfish double-flowered form of a pure white, contained some single-flowered
and some red-flowered plants, when sown from commercial seed are said to be pure. But these
were only occasional admixtures, since after artificial fertilization of the typical specimens
the strain at once became absolutely pure, and remained so for a series of generations, as
long as the experiment was continued. Seeds of trees often contain large quantities of impurities,
and the laciniated varieties of birch, elder and walnut have often been observed to come true
only in a small number of seedlings.

In the case of new or young varieties, seed merchants often warn their customers as to the
probable degree of purity of the seeds offered, in order to avoid complaints. For example the
snow-white variety of the double daisy, Bellis perennis plena, was offered at the start as
containing [196] as much as 20% of red-flowered specimens.

Many fine varieties are recorded to come true from seed, as in the case of the holly with yellow
fruits, tested by Darwin. Others have been found untrue to a relatively high degree, as is
notorious in the case of the purple beech. Seeds of the laciniated beech gave only 10% of laciniated
plants in experiments made by Strasburger; seeds of the monophyllous acacia, Robinia Pseud-Acacia
monophylla, were found to be true in only 30% of the seedlings. Weeping ashes often revert
to the upright type, red May-thorns (Crataegus) sometimes revert nearly entirely to the white
species and the yellow cornel berry is recorded to have reverted in the same way to the red
berries of the Cornus Mas.

Varieties have to be freed by selection from all such impurities, since isolation is a means
which is quite impracticable under ordinary circumstances. Isolation is a scientific requirement
that should never be neglected in experiments, indeed it may be said to be the first and most
important requisite for all exact research in questions of variability and inheritance. But
in cultivating large fields of allied varieties for commercial purposes, it is impossible to
grow them at such distances from each other [197] as to prevent cross-pollination by the visits
of bees.

This purification must be done in nearly every generation. The oldest varieties are to be subjected
to it as well as the latest. There is no regular amelioration, no slow progression in the direction
of becoming free from these admixtures. Continuous selection is indispensable to maintain the
races in the degree of purity which is required in commerce, but it does not lead to any improvement.
Nor does it go so far as to become unnecessary in the future. This shows that there must be
a continuous source of impurities, which in itself is not neutralized by selection, but of
which selection can only eliminate the deteriorating elements.

The same selection is usually applied to new varieties, when they occasionally arise. In this
case it is called "fixing," as gardeners generally believe that through selection the varieties
are brought to the required degree of purity. This belief seems to rest mainly on observations
made in practice, where, as we have seen, isolation is of very rare application. Most varieties
would no doubt be absolutely pure from the first moment of their existence, if it were only
possible to have them purely fertilized. But in practice this is seldom to be obtained. Ordinarily
the breeder is content with such slow [198] improvement as may be obtained with a minimum of
cost, and this mostly implies a culture in the same part of the nursery with older varieties
of the same species. Three, four or five years are required to purify the novelty, and as this
same length of time is also required to produce sufficient quantities of seed for commercial
purposes, there is no strong desire to shorten the period of selection and fixation. I had
occasion to see this process going on with sundry novelties at Erfurt in Germany. Among them
a chamois-colored variety of the common stock, a bluish Clarkia elegans and a curiously colored
opium-poppy may be mentioned. In some cases the crossfertilization is so overwhelming, that
in the next generation the novelty seems entirely to have disappeared.

The examples given may suffice to convey a general idea of the phenomenon, ordinarily called
atavism by gardeners, and considered mostly to be the effect of some innate tendency to revert
to the ancestral form. It is on this conception that the almost universal belief rests, that
varieties are distinguished, as such, from species by their inconstancy. Now I do not deny
the phenomenon itself. The impurity of seeds and cultures is so general and so manifest, and
may so easily be tested by every one [199] that it cannot reasonably be subjected to any doubt.
It must be conceded to be a fact, that varieties as a rule revert to their species under the
ordinary circumstances of commercial culture. And I cannot see any reason why this fact should
not be considered as stating a principal difference between varieties and species, since true
species never sport into one another.

My objection only refers to the explanation of the observed facts. According to my view nearly
all these ordinary reversions are due to crosses, and it is for this reason that I proposed
to call them by a separate name, that of "vicinists." Varieties then, by means of such spontaneous
intercrossing sport into one another, while species either do not cross, or when crossing produce
hybrids that are otherwise constituted and do not give the impression of atavistic reversion.

I must not be content with proposing this new conception, but must give the facts on which
this assumption rests. These facts are the results of simple experiments, which nevertheless
are by no means easy to carry out, as they require the utmost care to secure the absolute purity
of the seeds that are employed. This can only be guaranteed by previous cultures of isolated
plants or groups of plants, or by artificial pollination.

[200] Once sure of this preliminary condition, the experiment simply consists in growing a
variety at a given distance from its species and allowing the insects to transfer the pollen.
After harvesting the seed thus subjected to the presumed cause of the impurities, it must be
sown in quantities, large enough to bring to light any slight anomaly, and to be examined during
the period of blooming.

The wild seashore aster, Aster Tripolium, will serve as an example. It has pale violet or bluish
rays, but has given rise to a white variety, which on testing, I have found pure from seed.
Four specimens of this white variety were cultivated at a distance of nearly 100 meters from
a large lot of plants of the bluish species. I left fertilization to the bees, harvested the
seeds of the four whites separately and had from them the following year more than a thousand
flowering plants. All of them were of the purest white, with only one exception, which was
a plant with the bluish rays of the species, wholly reverting to its general type. As the variety
does not give such reversions when cultivated in isolation, this sport was obviously due to
some cross in the former year. In the same way I tried the white Jacob's ladder, Polemonium
coeruleum album in the neighborhood of the blue-flowered species, the distance [202] in this
case being only 40 meters. Of two hundred seeds one became a blue atavist, or rather vicinist,
while all others remained true to the white type. The same was observed in the white creeping
thyme, or Thymus Serpyllum album, and the white self-heal, Brunella vulgaris alba, gave even
so much as 28% seedlings with purple corollas out of some 400 specimens, after being cultivated
in close proximity to its parent-species. I have tried many other species, but always with
the same result. Such atavists only arise by cultivation in the proximity of allied varieties,
never in isolation. They are not real atavists, but only vicinists.

In order to show this yet more clearly, I made another experiment with the white selfheal.
I had a lot of the pinnate-leaved variety with purple flowers and somewhat stouter stems, and
cultivated single plants of the whiteflowering sort at distances that varied from 2-16 meters.
The seeds of each plant were collected and sown separately, those of the nearest gave up to
5 or 6 hybrids from the seeds of one parent, while those of the farthest gave only one purple-flowered
plant for each parent. Evidently the chance of the pollen being carried by bees is much greater
on short than on longer distances.

True hybrids between species may arise in quite the same way, and since it is obviously impossible
to attribute them to an innate tendency to reversion, they afford an absolutely irrefutable
proof of the assertion that pollen is often brought by insects from one lot of plants to another.
In this way I obtained a hybrid between the common Jacob's ladder and the allied species Polemonium
dissectum. With a distance of 100 meters between them I had two hybrid seeds among a hundred
of pure ones. At a similar distance pollen was carried over from the wild radish, Raphanus
Raphanistrum, to the allied Raphanus caudatus, and I observed the following year some very
nice hybrids among my seedlings. A hybrid-bean between Phaseolus nanus and P. multiflorus,
and some hybrids between the yellow daisy, Chrysanthemum segetum and the allied Chrysanthemum
coronarium or ox-eye daisy which also arose spontaneously in my garden between parents cultivated
at recorded distances, might further be noted. Further details of these experiments need not
be given. Suffice to say, that occasional crosses between species do occur, and not even rarely,
that they are easily recognized as such and cannot be confused with cases of atavism, and that
therefore they give proof to the assumption that in the same way crosses ordinarily occur also
between varieties [203] of the same species, if cultivated at small distances apart, say 40-50
meters or even more. Vicinism therefore, may play a part in all such cultures, enough to account
for all the impurities observed in the nurseries or in commercial seed-samples.

Of course this whole discussion is limited to such species as are not only as a rule visited
by insects, but are dependent on these visits for their fertilization. Most of our garden-flowers
are included in this category. If not then we may expect to find the cultures and seeds pure,
irrespective of the distances between allied varieties, as for instance with peas, which are
known to be self-fertilizing. Another instance is given by the barley. One of the most curious
anomalous varieties of this cereal, is the "Nepaul-barley," with its small adventitious flowers
on the palets or inner scales. It is a very old, widely cultivated sort, which always comes
true from seed, and which has been tested in repeated experiments in my garden. The spikelets
of this curious plant are oneflowered and provided with two linear glumes or outer scales.
Of the inner scales or palets, the outer one is three-lobed at the summit, hence the varietal
name of Hordeum vulgare trifurcatum. The central lobe is oblong and hollow, covering a small
supernumerary floret inserted [204] at its base. The two lateral lobes are narrower, sometimes
linear, and are often prolonged into an awn, which is generally turned away from the center
of the spike. The central lobe sometimes bears two florets at its base, although but one is
usually present and it may be incomplete.

I might give one more instance from my own experience. A variety of the evening-primrose with
small linear petals was once found by one of my sons growing wild near Amsterdam. It was represented
by only one individual, flowering among a great many of the ordinary type with broad petals.
But the evening-primroses open their anthers in the morning, fertilize themselves during the
day, and only display their beautiful flowers in the evening, after the pollination has been
accomplished. They then allure evening moths, such as Agrotis and Plusia, by their bright color,
their sweet honeysmell and their nectar. Since the fertilization is accomplished many hours
before opening, crosses are effected only in rare instances, and the seeds commonly remain
true to the parent type. The seeds of this one plant, when sown separately in my garden, produced
exclusively flowers with the small linear petals of their parent. Although I had a hundred
individuals bearing many thousands of flowers, there was not an instance of reversion. And
such would [205] immediately have been observed, had it occurred, because the hybrids between
the cruciate and the normal flowers are not intermediate, but bear the broad petals of the
O. biennis.

We may now take up another phase of the question, that of the running out of new varieties,
shortly after their introduction into a new country, or later.

The most widely known instance of this is that of the American corn in Baden, recorded by Metzger
and quoted by Darwin as a remarkable instance of the direct and prompt action of climate on
a plant. It has since been considered as a reversion to the old type. Such reversions invariably
occur, according to Wallace, in cases of new varieties, which have been produced quickly. But
as we now know, such reversions are due to spontaneous crosses with the old form, and to the
rule, that the hybrids of such origin are not intermediate, but assume the features of the
older of the two parents. In the light of this experience, Metzger's observation becomes a
typical instance of vicinism. It relates to the "Tuscarora" corn of St. Louis, a variety with
broad and flat white seeds.

About the year 1840, this corn was introduced into Baden in Germany, and cultivated by Metzger.
In the first year it came true to type, and [206] attained a height of 12 feet, but the season
did not allow its seeds to ripen normally. Only a few kernels were developed before the winter.
From this seed plants of a wholly different type came the next year, of smaller stature, and
with more brownish and rounded kernels. They also flowered earlier and ripened a large number
of seeds. The depression on the outer side of the seed had almost disappeared, and the original
white had become darker. Obviously they were hybrids, assuming the character of their pollen-parent,
which evidently was the ordinary corn, cultivated all around. The observation of the next year
showed this clearly, for in the third generation nearly all resemblance to the original and
very distinct American species was lost. If we assume that only those seeds ripened which reverted
to the early-ripening European type, and that those that remained true to the very late American
variety could not reach maturity, the case seems to be wholly comprehensible, without supposing
any other factors to have been at work than those of vicinism, which though unknown at the
period of Metzger's and Darwin's writings, seems now to be fully understood. No innate tendency
to run out and no changing influence of the climate are required for an adequate explanation
of the facts.

In the observation quoted, what astonishes us most, is the great rapidity of the change, and
the short time necessary for the offspring of the accidental crosses to completely supplant
the introduced type. In the lecture on the selection of elementary species, closely analogous
cases were described. One of them was the wild oat or Avena fatua which rapidly supplants the
cultivated oats in bad years in parts of the fields. Other instances were the experiments of
Risler with the "Galland" wheat and the observation of Rimpau on "Rivett's bearded" wheat.

Before leaving the question of vicinism and its bearing on the general belief of the instability
of varieties, which when tested with due care, prove to be quite stable, it may be as well
to consider the phenomena from another point of view. Our present knowledge of the effects
of crosses between varieties enables us to formulate some general rules, which may be used
to calculate, and in some way to predict, the nature of the impurities which necessarily attend
the cultivation of allied species in close vicinity. And this mode of cultivation being in
almost universal use in the larger nurseries, [208] we may, by this discussion, arrive at a
more scientific estimation of the phenomena of vicinism, hitherto described.

The simplest case that may be given, is when an ordinary retrograde variety is cultivated with
the species to which it belongs. For instance, if dwarfs are cultivated next to the taller
type, or a white variety next to the red or blue-flowering species, or thornless forms in neighboring
beds with the armed species. Bees and Bumble-bees, butterflies and moths are seen flying from
flower to flower, collecting the honey and carrying pollen. I frequently saw them cross the
limits of the neighboring beds. Loaded with the pollen of the variety they visit the flowers
of the different species and impregnate the stigma with it. And returning to the variety they
bring about similar crosses in the flowers of the latter. Hybrid seeds will develop in both
cases and become mixed with the crop. We now have to ask the question, what sort of plants
will arise from these hybrid seeds. As a general rule we may state, first, that the hybrids
of either form of cross are practically the same, secondly that they are not intermediate,
but that the character of one parent prevails to the almost absolute exclusion of the other
and in the third place that the older character dominates the younger.

[209] The hybrid offspring will therefore, in the main, have the character of the species and
be indistinguishable from it, or show only such differences as escape ordinary observation.
When occurring in the seeds of the variety they betray themselves as soon as the differential
characters are displayed. Between the thousands of flowering plants of a white variety the
hybrids will instantly catch the eye by their red or blue corollas. Quite the contrary effect
results from the admixture of hybrids with the seeds of the species itself. Here no difference
will show itself, even in the fullest bloom. The effect of the spontaneous crosses will pass
unobserved. The strain, if pure in the first year, will seem to be still in the same condition.
Or in other terms, the unavoidable spontaneous crosses will disturb the purity of the variety
in the second year, while they do not seem to interfere at all with the uniformity of the species.
The direct effect of the visits of the insects is evident in the first case, but passes unobserved
in the latter.

From this it would seem, that spontaneous crosses are hurtful to varieties, but are innocuous
to true species. Certainly this would be so, were there no selection. But it is easily seen,
that through this operation the effect becomes quite the opposite. For when the fields [210]
are inspected at the time of the fullest display of the varietal characters, the obvious hybrids
will be eliminated, but the hidden ones will of necessity be spared, as they are concealed
among the species by the similarity of their type. Hence, the harvest of the variety may be
rendered pure or nearly so, while the harvest of the species will retain the seeds of the hybrids.
Moreover it will contain seeds originated by the spontaneous but numerous crosses of the true
plants with the sparsely intermingled hybrids.

This brings us to the question, as to what will be the visible consequences of the occurrence
of such invisible hybrids in the following generation. In opposition to the direct effects
just described, we may call them indirect. To judge of their influence, we must know how hybrid
seeds of the first generation behave.

In one of our lectures we will deal with the laws that show the numerical relations known as
the laws of Mendel. But for our present purpose, these numerical relations are only of subordinate
importance. What interests us here is the fact that hybrids of varieties do not remain constant
in the second generation but usually split as it is said, remaining hybrid only in part of
their offspring, the other portion returning to the parental types. This however, will show
itself only in those individuals [211] which reassume the character of the varietal parent,
all the others apparently remaining true to the type of the species. Now it is easy to foresee
what must happen in the second generation if the first generation after the cross is supposed
to be kept free from new vicinistic influences, or from crosses with neighboring varieties.

We may limit ourselves in the first place to the seeds of the unobserved hybrids. For the greater
part they will repeat the character of their parents and still remain concealed. But a small
number will display the varietal marks, as for example showing white flowers in a field of
blue ones. Hence, the indirect consequence of the spontaneous crosses will be the same in the
species, as was the direct effect in the variety, only that it appears a year later. It will
then be eliminated in the process of selection.

Obviously, this elimination conduces only to a partial purification. The conspicuous plants
will be destroyed, but a greater number of hybrids will remain, still concealed by their resemblance
to the general type and will be spared to repeat the same process next year. So while the variety
may be freed every year from the impurities brought into it in the preceeding summer, the admixtures
of the species [212] will continue during a number of years, and it may not be possible to
get rid of them at all.

It is an often recurring assertion that white varieties of colored species are the most stable
of all horticultural races. They are often said to be at least as constant as the species itself,
and even to surpass it in this quality. With our present state of knowledge, the explanation
of this general experience is easily given. For selection removes the effect of spontaneous
crosses from the variety in each year, and renders it practically pure, while it is wholly
inadequate to produce the same effects on the species, because of the concealed hybrids.

The explanation given in this simple instance may be applied to the case of different varieties
of the same species, when growing together and crossed naturally by insects.

It would take too long to go into all the details that present themselves here to the student
of nature and of gardens. I will only state, that since varieties differ principally from their
species by the lack of some sharp character, one variety may be characterized by the lack of
color of the flowers, another by the lack of pubescence, a third by being dwarfed, and so on.
Every character must be studied separately in its effects on the offspring [213] of the crosses.
And it is therefore easily seen, that the hybrids of two varieties may resemble neither of
them, but revert to the species itself. This is necessarily and commonly the case, since it
is always the older or positive characters that prevail in the hybrids and the younger or negative
that lie hidden. So for instance, a blue dwarf larkspur, crossed with a tall white variety,
must give a tall blue hybrid, reassuming in both characters the essentials of the species.

Keeping this rule in view, it will be easy to calculate what may be expected from spontaneous
crosses for a wide range of occurrences, and thus to find an explanation of innumerable cases
of apparent variability and reversion in the principle of vicinism. Students have only to recollect
that specific characters prevail over varietal ones, and that every character competes only
with its own antagonist. Or to give a sharper distinction: whiteness of flowers cannot be expected
to be interchanged with pubescence of leaves.

In concluding I will point out another danger which in the principle of vicinism may be avoided.
If you see a plant in a garden with all the characteristics of its species, how can you be
sure that it is truly a representative of the species, and not a hybrid? The prevailing [214]
characters are in either case the same. Perhaps on close inspection you may find in some cases
a slight difference, some character being not as fully developed in the hybrid as in the species.
But when such is not the case, or where the opportunity for such a closer examination is wanting,
a hybrid may easily be taken for a specimen of the pure race. Now take the seeds of your plant
and sow them. If you had not supposed it to be hybrid you will be astonished at finding among
its progeny some of a wholly different type. You will be led to conclude that you are observing
a sudden change in structure such as is usually called a sport.

Or in other words you may think that you are assisting at the origination of a new variety.
If you are familiar with the principle of vicinism, you will refrain from such an inference
and consider the supposition of a hybrid origin. But in former times, when this principle was
still unknown and not even guessed at, it is evident that many mistakes must have been made,
and that many an instance, which until now has been considered reliable proof of a so-called
single variation, is in fact only a case of vicinism. In reading the sparse literature on sports,
numerous cases will be found, which cannot stand this test. In many instances crossing must
be looked to as an explanation, [215] and in other cases the evidence relied upon does not
suffice to exclude this assumption. Many an old argument has of late lost its force by this test.

Returning to our starting point we may now state that regular reversions to a specific type
characterize a form as a variety of that species. These reversions, however, are not due to
an innate tendency, but to unobserved spontaneous crosses.

[217]

LECTURE VIII

LATENT CHARACTERS

No organism exhibits all of its qualities at any one time. Many of them are generally dormant
and await a period of activity. For some of them this period comes regularly, while in others
the awakening depends upon external influences, and consequently occurs very irregularly. Those
of the first group correspond to the differences in age; the second constitute the responses
of the plant to stimuli including wound-injuries.

Some illustrative examples may be quoted in order to give a precise idea of this general conception
of dormant or latent characters. Seed leaves are only developed in the seed and the seedling;
afterwards, during the entire lifetime of the plant, the faculty of producing them is not made
use of. Every new generation of seeds however, bears the same kind of seed leaves, and hence
it is manifest that it is the same quality, which shows itself from time to time.

The primary leaves, following the seed-leaves, are different in many species, from the later
ones, and the difference is extremely pronounced in some cases of reduction. Often, when leaves
are lacking in the adult plant, being replaced by flattened stalks as in the case of the acacias,
or by thorns, or green stems and twigs as in the prickly broom or Ulex europaeus, the first
leaves of the young plant may be more highly differentiated, being pinnate in the first case
and bearing three leaflets in the second instance. This curious behavior which is very common,
brings the plants, when young, nearer to their allies than in the adult state, and manifestly
implies that the more perfect state of the leaves is latent throughout the life of the plant,
with the exception of the early juvenile period.

Eucalyptus Globulus, the Australian gum tree, has opposite and broadly sessile leaves during
the first years of its life. Later these disappear and are replaced by long sickle-shaped foliage
organs, which seem to be scattered irregularly along the branches. The juvenile characters
manifestly lie dormant during the adult period, and that this is so, may be shown artificially
by cutting off the whole crown of the tree, when the stem responds by producing numerous new
branches, which assume the [218] shape proper to the young trees, bearing sessile and opposite
leaves.

It seems quite unnecessary to give further instances. They are familiar to every student. It
is almost safe to say that every character has its periods of activity and of inactivity, and
numbers of flowers and fruits can be mentioned as illustrations. One fact may be added to show
that nearly every part of the plant must have the power of producing all or nearly all the
characters of the individual to which it belongs. This proof is given by the formation of adventitious
buds. These, when once formed, may grow out into twigs, with leaves and flowers and roots.
They may even be separated from the plants and used as cuttings to reproduce the whole. Hence
we may conclude that all tissues, which possess the power of producing adventitious buds, must
conceal in a latent state, all the numerous characters required for the full development of
the whole individual.

Adventitious buds may proceed from specialized cells, as on the margin of the leaves of Bryophyllum
calycinum; or from the cells of special tissues, as in the epidermis of the begonias; or they
may be provoked by wounds in nearly every part of the plant, provided it be able to heal the
wound by swelling tissues or [219] callus. The best instance is afforded by elms and by the
horse-chestnut. If the whole tree is hewn down the trunk tries to repair the injury by producing
small granulations of tissue between the wood and the bark, which gradually coalesce while
becoming larger. From this new ring of living matter innumerable buds arise, that expand into
leafy branches, showing clearly that the old trunk possesses, in a latent state, all the qualities
of the whole crown. Indeed, such injured stumps may be used for the production of copses and
hedges.

All the hitherto recorded cases of latency have this in common, that they may become active
during the life-time of any given individual once, or oftener. This may be called the ordinary
type of latency.

Besides this there is another form of latent characters, in which this awakening power is extremely
limited, or wholly absent. It is the systematic latency, which may be said to belong to species
and varieties in the same way as the ordinary latency belongs to individuals. As this individual
latency may show itself from time to time during the life of a given plant, the first may only
become active from time to time during the whole existence of the variety or the species. It
has no regular period of activity, nor may it be incited by artificial stimulation.

[220] It emerges from concealment only very rarely and only on its own initiative. Such instances
of atavism have been described in previous lectures, and their existence has been proved beyond
doubt.

Systematic latency explains the innumerable instances in which species are seen to lack definite
characteristics which ordinarily do not fail, either in plants at large, or in the group or
family to which the plant belongs. If we take for instance the broom-rape or Orobanche, or
some other pale parasite, we explain their occurrence in families of plants with green leaves,
by the loss of the leaves and of the green color. But evidently this loss is not a true one,
but only the latency of those characters. And even this latency is not a complete one, as little
scales remind us of the leaves, and traces of chlorophyll still exist in the tissues. Numerous
other cases will present themselves to every practical botanist.

Taking for granted that characters, having once been acquired, may become latent, and that
this process is of universal occurrence throughout the whole vegetable and animal kingdom,
we may now come to a more precise and clear conception of the existing differences between
species and varieties.

For this purpose we must take a somewhat [221] broader view of the whole evolution of the vegetable
kingdom. It is manifest that highly developed plants have a larger number of characters than
the lower groups. These must have been acquired in some way, during preceding times. Such evolution
must evidently be called a process of improvement, or a progressive evolution. Contrasted to
this is the loss, or the latency of characters, and this may be designated retrogressive or
retrograde evolution. But there is still a third possibility. For a latent character may reassume
its activity, return to the active state, and become once more an important part of the whole
organization. This process may be designated as degressive evolution; it obviously completes
the series of the general types of evolution.

Advancement in general in living nature depends on progressive evolution. In different parts
of the vegetable kingdom, and even in different families this progression takes place on different
lines. By this means it results in an ever increasing divergency between the several groups.
Every step is an advance, and many a step must have been taken to produce flowering plants
from the simplest unicellular algae.

But related to, and very intimately connected with this advancement is the retrogressive [222]
evolution. It is equally universal, perhaps never failing. No great changes have been attained,
without acquiring new qualities on one side, and reducing others to latency. Everywhere such
retrogressions may be seen. The polypetalous genera Pyrola, Ledum, and Monotropa among the
sympetalous heaths, are a remarkable instance of this. The whole evolution of the monocotyledons
from the lowest orders of dicotyledons implies the seeming loss of cambial growth and many
other qualities. In the order of aroids, from the calamus-root or sweet flag, with its small
but complete flowers, up to the reduced duckweeds (Lemna), almost an unbroken line of intermediate
steps may be traced showing everywhere the concurrence of progressive and retrogressive evolution.

Degressive evolution is not so common by far, and is not so easy to recognize, but no doubt
it occurs very frequently. It is generally called atavism, or better, systematic atavism, and
the clearest cases are those in which a quality which is latent in the greater part of a family
or group, becomes manifest in one of its members. Bracts in the inflorescence of crucifers
are ordinarily wanting, but may be seen in some genera, Erucastrum pollichii being perhaps
the [223] most widely known instance, although other cases might easily be cited.

For our special purpose we may take up only the more simple cases that may be available for
experimental work. The great lines of evolution of whole families and even of genera and of
many larger species obviously lie outside the limits of experimental observation. They are
the outcome of the history of the ancestors of the present types, and a repetition of their
history is far beyond human powers. We must limit ourselves to the most recent steps, to the
consideration of the smallest differences. But it is obvious that these may be included under
the same heads as the larger and older ones. For the larger movements are manifestly to be
considered only as groups of smaller steps, going in the same direction.

Hence we conclude, that even the smallest steps in the evolution of plants which we are able
to observe, may be divided into progressive, retrogressive and degressive ones. The acquisition
of a single new quality is the most simple step in the progressive line, the becoming latent
and the reactivating of this same quality are the prototypes of the two other classes.

Having taken this theoretical point of view, it remains to inquire, how it concurs with the
[224] various facts, given in former lectures and how it may be of use in our further discussions.

It is obvious that the differences between elementary species and varieties on the one hand,
and between the positive and negative varieties as distinguished above, are quite comparable
with our theoretical views. For we have seen that varieties can always be considered as having
originated by an apparent loss of some quality of the species, or by the resumption of a quality
which in allied species is present and visible. In our exposition of the facts we have of course
limited ourselves to the observable features of the phenomena without searching for a further
explanation. For a more competent inquiry however, and for an understanding of wider ranges
of facts, it is necessary to penetrate deeper into the true nature of the implied causes.

Therefore we must try to show that elementary species are distinguished from each other by
the acquisition of new qualities, and that varieties are derived from their species either
by the reduction of one or more characteristics to the latent state, or by the energizing of
dormant characters.

Here we meet with a great difficulty. Hitherto varieties and subspecies have never been clearly
defined, or when they have been, it was [225] not by physiological, but only by morphological
research. And the claims of these two great lines of inquiry are obviously very diverging.
Morphological or comparative studies need a material standard, by which it may be readily decided
whether certain groups of animals and plants are to be described or de-nominated as species,
as subspecies or as varieties. To get at the inner nature of the differences is in most cases
impossible, but a decision must be made. The physiological line of inquiry has more time at
its disposal; it calls for no haste. Its experiments ordinarily cover years, and a conclusion
is only to be reached after long and often weary trials. There is no making a decision on any
matter until all doubtful points have been cleared up. Of course, large groups of facts remain
uncertain, awaiting a closer inquiry, and the teacher is constrained to rely on the few known
instances of thoroughly investigated cases. These alone are safe guides, and it seems far better
to trust to them and to make use of them for the construction of sharp conceptions, which may
help us to point out the lines of inquiry which are still open.

Leaving aside all such divisions and definitions, as were stamped with the name of provisional
species and varieties by the great systematist, [226] Alphonse De Candolle, we may now try
to give the proofs of our assertion, by using only those instances that have been thoroughly
tested in every way.

We may at once proceed to the retrogressive or negative varieties. The arguments for the assumption
that elementary species owe their origin to the acquisition of new qualities may well be left
for later lectures when we shall deal with the experimental proofs in this matter.

There are three larger groups of facts, on which the assumption of latent characters in ordinary
varieties rests. These are true atavism, incomplete loss of characters, and systematic affinity.
Before dealing with each of these separately, it may be as well to recall once more that in
former lectures we have treated the apparent losses only as modifications in a negative way,
without contemplating the underlying causes.

Let us recall the cases of bud-atavism given by the whitish variety of the scarlet Ribes, by
peaches and nectarines, and by conifers, including Cephalotaxus and Cryptomeria. These and
many other analogous facts go to prove the relation of the variety to the species. Two assumptions
are allowable. In one the variety differs from the species by the total loss of the [227] distinctive
character. In the other this character is simply reduced to an inactive or dormant state. The
fact of its recurrence from time to time, accompanied by secondary characters previously exhibited,
is a manifest proof of the existence of some relation between the lost and the resumed peculiarity.
Evidently this relation cannot be accounted for on the assumption of an absolute disappearance;
something must remain from which the old features may be restored.

This lengthy discussion may be closed by the citation of the cases, in which plants not only
show developmental features of a former state, but also reproduce the special features they
formerly had, but seemingly have lost. Two good illustrative examples may be given. One is
afforded by the wheat-ear carnation, the other by the green dahlias, and both have occurred
of late in my own cultures.

A very curious anomaly may from time to time be observed in large beds of carnations. It bears
no flowers, but instead of them small green ears, which recall the ears of wheat. Thence the
name of "Wheat-ear" carnation. On closer inspection it is easily seen how they originate. The
normal flowers of the carnations are preceded by a small group of bracts, [228] which are arranged
in opposite pairs and therefore constitute four rows.

In this variety the flower is suppressed and this loss is attended by a corresponding increase
of the number of the pairs of bracts. This malformation results in square spikes or somewhat
elongated heads consisting only of the greenish bracts. As there are no flowers, the variety
is quite sterile, and as it is not regarded by horticulturists as an improvement on the ordinary
bright carnations, it is seldom multiplied by layering. Notwithstanding this, it appears from
time to time and has been seen in different countries and at different periods, and, what is
of great importance for us, in different strains of carnations. Though sterile, and obviously
dying out as often as it springs into existence, it is nearly two centuries old. It was described
in the beginning of the 18th century by Volckamer, and afterwards by Jaeger, De Candolle, Weber,
Masters, Magnus and many other botanists. I have had it twice, at different times and from
different growers.

So far as I have been able to ascertain reversions of this curious carnation to normal flowers
have not yet been recorded. Such a modification occurred last summer in my garden on a plant
which had not been divided or layered, but on which the slender branches had [229] been left
on the stem. Some of them remained true to the varietal type and bore only green spikes. Others
reverted wholly or partially to the production of normal flowers. Some branches bore these
only, others had spikes and flowers on neighboring twigs, and in still other instances little
spikes had been modified in such manner that a more or less well developed flower was preceded
by some part of an ear.

The proof that this retrograde modification was due to the existence of a character in the
latent state was given by the color of the flowers. If the reverted bud had only lost the power
of producing spikes, they would evidently simply have returned to the characteristics of the
ordinary species, and their color would have been a pale pink. Instead of this, all flowers
displayed corollas of a deep brown. They obviously reverted to their special progenitor, the
chance variety from which they had sprung, and not to the common prototype of the species.
Of course it was not possible to ascertain from which variety the plant had really originated,
but the reproduction of any one clearly defined varietal mark is in itself proof enough of
their origin, and of the latency of the dark brown flower-color in this special case.

A still better proof is afforded by a new type of green dahlia. The ordinary green dahlia [230]
has large tufts of green bracts instead of flowering heads, the scales of the receptacle having
assumed the texture and venation of leaves, and being in some measure as fleshy. But the green
heads retain the form of the ordinary flower-heads, and as they have no real florets that may
fade away, they remain unchanged on the plants, and increase in number through the whole summer.
The new types of green dahlia however, with which I have now to deal, are distinguished by
the elongation of the axis of the head, which is thereby changed into a long leafy stalk, attaining
a length of several inches. These stalks continue growing for a very long time, and for the
most part die without producing anything else than green fleshy scales.

This long-headed green dahlia originated at Haarlem some years ago, in the nursery of Messrs.
Zocher & Co. It was seen to arise twice, from different varieties. Both of these were double-flowered,
one a deep carmine with white tips on the rays, the other of a pale orange tint, known by the
name of "Surprise." As they did not bear any florets or seeds, they were quite sterile. The
strain arising from the carmine variety was kindly given to me by Messrs. Zocher & Co., and
was propagated in my garden, while the other was kept in the nursery. In the earlier cultures
both remained true to [231] their types, never producing true florets. No mark of the original
difference was to be seen between them. But last summer (1903) both reverted to their prototypes,
bearing relatively large numbers of ordinary double flowerheads among the great mass of green
stalks. Some intermediate forms also occurred consisting of green-scaled stalks ending in small
heads with colored florets.

Thus far we have an ordinary case of reversion. But the important side of the phenomenon was,
that each plant exactly "recollected" from which parent it had sprung. All of those in my garden
reverted to the carmine florets with white tips, and all of those in the nursery to the pale
orange color and the other characteristics of the "Surprise" variety.

