We are happy to add, that, to all appearance, a great advance in all these respects has been
made within these few years--disagreements respecting wages and other circumstances between
employers and employed, being conducted and finally adjusted in a spirit very different from
what used to be manifested a quarter of a century ago.

FOOTNOTES:

[7] Political Economy: Chambers's Educational Course.

THIRST IN THE ARCTIC REGIONS.

The use of snow when persons are thirsty does not by any means allay the insatiable desire
for water; on the contrary, it appears to be increased in proportion to the quantity used,
and the frequency with which it is put into the mouth. For example, a person walking along
feels intensely thirsty, and he looks to his feet with coveting eyes; but his good sense and
firm resolutions are not to be overcome so easily, and he withdraws the open hand that was
to grasp the delicious morsel and convey it into his parching mouth. He has several miles of
a journey to accomplish, and his thirst is every moment increasing; he is perspiring profusely,
and feels quite hot and oppressed. At length his good resolutions stagger, and he partakes
of the smallest particle, which produces a most exhilarating effect; in less then ten minutes
he tastes again and again, always increasing the quantity; and in half an hour he has a gum-stick
of condensed snow, which he masticates with avidity, and replaces with assiduity the moment
that it has melted away. But his thirst is not allayed in the slightest degree; he is as hot
as ever, and still perspires; his mouth is in flames, and he is driven to the necessity of
quenching them with snow, which adds fuel to the fire. The melting snow ceases to please the
palate, and it feels like red-hot coals, which, like a fire-eater, he shifts about with his
tongue, and swallows without the addition of saliva. He is in despair; but habit has taken
the place of his reasoning faculties, and he moves on with languid steps, lamenting the severe
fate which forces him to persist in a practice which in an unguarded moment he allowed to begin....
I believe the true cause of such intense thirst is the extreme dryness of the air when the
temperature is low.--Sutherland's Journal.

AN AUSTRALIAN MISS.

The precocity of the Australian youth, to be properly understood and believed, can only be
fully appreciated by being an eye-witness to some of these very extraordinary young creatures.
I have seen a girl of ten years of age possess all the manner of an old lady of sixty: she
would flirt with three men at a time, and have a ready answer for them when teasing her; would
move like an accomplished actress, manipulate gracefully, play whist, chess, and other games,
and talk about getting married. This child, for such I must call her, was a greater mental
giant than O'Brien, with his moving mountain of flesh, and far more entertaining than twenty
Tom Thumbs.--Shaw's Tramp to the Diggings.

THE DAY OF REST.

    Rest, rest! it is the Day of Rest--there needs no book to tell
    The truth that every thoughtful eye, each heart can read so well;
    Rest, rest! it is the Sabbath morn, a quiet fills the air,
    Whose whispered voice of peace repeats that rest is everywhere.

    O weary heart! O heart of wo! raise up thy toil-worn brow;
    The fields, the trees, the very breeze--they all are resting now:
    The air is still, there is no sound, save that unceasing hum,
    That insect song of summer-time that from the woods doth come.

    And even that seems fainter now, like voices far away,
    As though they only sang of rest, and laboured not to-day;
    The hum of bees seems softer, too, from out the clear blue heaven,
    As if the lowliest creatures knew this day for rest was given.

