When the guests began to arrive our friend the Duchess had apparently got through her little
difficulties, for she received them with that open, genial hospitality which is so delightful
as coming evidently from the heart. There had not been another word between her and her husband
as to the manner in which the thing was to be done, and she had determined that the offensive
word should pass altogether out of her memory. The first comer was Mrs. Finn,--who came indeed
rather as an assistant hostess than as a mere guest, and to her the Duchess uttered a few half-playful
hints as to her troubles. "Considering the time, haven't we done marvels? Because it does look
nice,--doesn't it? There are no dirt heaps about, and it's all as green as though it had been
there since the Conquest. He doesn't like it because it looks new. And we've got forty-five
bedrooms made up. The servants are all turned out over the stables somewhere,--quite comfortable,
I assure you. Indeed they like it. And by knocking down the ends of two passages we've brought
everything together. And the rooms are all numbered just like an inn. It was the only way.
And I keep one book myself, and Locock has another. I have everybody's room, and where it is,
and how long the tenant is to be allowed to occupy it. And here's the way everybody is to take
everybody down to dinner for the next fortnight. Of course that must be altered, but it is
easier when we have a sort of settled basis. And I have some private notes as to who should
flirt with whom."

"You'd better not let that lie about."

"Nobody could understand a word of it if they had it. A. B. always means X. Y. Z. And this
is the code of the Gatherum Archery Ground. I never drew a bow in my life,--not a real bow
in the flesh, that is, my dear,--and yet I've made 'em all out, and had them printed. The way
to make a thing go down is to give it some special importance. And I've gone through the bill
of fare for the first week with Millepois, who is a perfect gentleman,--perfect." Then she
gave a little sigh as she remembered that word from her husband, which had so wounded her.
"I used to think that Plantagenet worked hard when he was doing his decimal coinage; but I
don't think he ever stuck to it as I have done."

"What does the Duke say to it all?"

"Ah; well, upon the whole he behaves like an angel. He behaves so well that half my time I
think I'll shut it all up and have done with it,--for his sake. And then, the other half, I'm
determined to go on with it,--also for his sake."

"He has not been displeased?"

"Ask no questions, my dear, and you'll hear no stories. You haven't been married twice without
knowing that women can't have everything smooth. He only said one word. It was rather hard
to bear, but it has passed away."

That afternoon there was quite a crowd. Among the first comers were Mr. and Mrs. Roby, and
Mr. and Mrs. Rattler. And there were Sir Orlando and Lady Drought, Lord Ramsden, and Sir Timothy
Beeswax. These gentlemen with their wives represented, for the time, the Ministry of which
the Duke was the head, and had been asked in order that their fealty and submission might be
thus riveted. There were also there Mr. and Mrs. Boffin, with Lord Thrift and his daughter
Angelica, who had belonged to former Ministries,--one on the Liberal and the other on the Conservative
side,--and who were now among the Duke's guests, in order that they and others might see how
wide the Duke wished to open his hands. And there was our friend Ferdinand Lopez, who had certainly
made the best use of his opportunities in securing for himself so great a social advantage
as an invitation to Gatherum Castle. How could any father, who was simply a barrister, refuse
to receive as his son-in-law a man who had been a guest at the Duke of Omnium's country house?
And then there were certain people from the neighbourhood;--Frank Gresham of Greshamsbury,
with his wife and daughter, the master of the hounds in those parts, a rich squire of old blood,
and head of the family to which one of the aspirant Prime Ministers of the day belonged. And
Lord Chiltern, another master of fox hounds, two counties off,--and also an old friend of ours,--had
been asked to meet him, and had brought his wife. And there was Lady Rosina De Courcy, an old
maid, the sister of the present Earl De Courcy, who lived not far off and had been accustomed
to come to Gatherum Castle on state occasions for the last thirty years,--the only relic in
those parts of a family which had lived there for many years in great pride of place; for her
elder brother, the Earl, was a ruined man, and her younger brothers were living with their
wives abroad, and her sisters had married, rather lowly in the world, and her mother now was
dead, and Lady Rosina lived alone in a little cottage outside the old park palings, and still
held fast within her bosom all the old pride of the De Courcys. And then there were Captain
Gunner and Major Pountney, two middle-aged young men, presumably belonging to the army, whom
the Duchess had lately enlisted among her followers as being useful in their way. They could
eat their dinners without being shy, dance on occasions, though very unwillingly, talk a little,
and run on messages;--and they knew the peerage by heart, and could tell the details of every
unfortunate marriage for the last twenty years. Each thought himself, especially since this
last promotion, to be indispensably necessary to the formation of London society, and was comfortable
in a conviction that he had thoroughly succeeded in life by acquiring the privilege of sitting
down to dinner three times a week with peers and peeresses.

The list of guests has by no means been made as complete here as it was to be found in the
county newspapers, and in the "Morning Post" of the time; but enough of names has been given
to show of what nature was the party. "The Duchess has got rather a rough lot to begin with,"
said the Major to the Captain.

"Oh, yes. I knew that. She wanted me to be useful, so of course I came. I shall stay here this
week, and then be back in September." Up to this moment Captain Gunner had not received any
invitation for September, but then there was no reason why he should not do so.

"I've been getting up that archery code with her," said Pountney, "and I was pledged to come
down and set it going. That little Gresham girl isn't a bad looking thing."

"Rather flabby," said Captain Gunner.

"Very nice colour. She'll have a lot of money, you know."

"There's a brother," said the Captain.

"Oh, yes; there's a brother, who will have the Greshamsbury property, but she's to have her
mother's money. There's a very odd story about all that, you know." Then the Major told the
story, and told every particular of it wrongly. "A man might do worse than look there," said
the Major. A man might have done worse, because Miss Gresham was a very nice girl; but of course
the Major was all wrong about the money.

"Well;--now you've tried it, what do you think about it?" This question was put by Sir Timothy
to Sir Orlando as they sat in a corner of the archery ground, under the shelter of a tent,
looking on while Major Pountney taught Mrs. Boffin how to fix an arrow to her bowstring. It
was quite understood that Sir Timothy was inimical to the Coalition though he still belonged
to it, and that he would assist in breaking it up if only there were a fair chance of his belonging
to the party which would remain in power. Sir Timothy had been badly treated, and did not forget
it. Now Sir Orlando had also of late shown some symptoms of a disturbed ambition. He was the
Leader of the House of Commons, and it had become an almost recognised law of the Constitution
that the Leader of the House of Commons should be the First Minister of the Crown. It was at
least understood by many that such was Sir Orlando's reading of the laws of the Constitution.

"We've got along, you know," said Sir Orlando.

"Yes;--yes. We've got along. Can you imagine any possible concatenation of circumstances in
which we should not get along? There's always too much good sense in the House for an absolute
collapse. But are you contented?"

"I won't say I'm not," said the cautious baronet. "I didn't look for very great things from
a Coalition, and I didn't look for very great things from the Duke."

"It seems to me that the one achievement to which we've all looked has been the reaching the
end of the Session in safety. We've done that certainly."

"It is a great thing to do, Sir Timothy. Of course the main work of Parliament is to raise
supplies;--and, when that has been done with ease, when all the money wanted has been voted
without a break-down, of course Ministers are very glad to get rid of the Parliament. It is
as much a matter of course that a Minister should dislike Parliament now as that a Stuart King
should have done so two hundred and fifty years ago. To get a Session over and done with is
an achievement and a delight."

"No Ministry can go on long on that far niente principle, and no minister who accedes to it
will remain long in any ministry." Sir Timothy in saying this might be alluding to the Duke,
or the reference might be to Sir Orlando himself. "Of course, I'm not in the Cabinet, and am
not entitled to say a word; but I think that if I were in the Cabinet, and if I were anxious,--which
I confess I'm not,--for a continuation of the present state of things, I should endeavour to
obtain from the Duke some idea of his policy for the next Session." Sir Orlando was a man of
certain parts. He could speak volubly,--and yet slowly,--so that reporters and others could
hear him. He was patient, both in the House and in his office, and had the great gift of doing
what he was told by men who understood things better than he did himself. He never went very
far astray in his official business, because he always obeyed the clerks and followed precedents.
He had been a useful man,--and would still have remained so had he not been lifted a little
too high. Had he been only one in the ruck on the Treasury Bench he would have been useful
to the end; but special honour and special place had been assigned to him, and therefore he
desired still bigger things. The Duke's mediocrity of talent and of energy and of general governing
power had been so often mentioned of late in Sir Orlando's hearing, that Sir Orlando had gradually
come to think that he was the Duke's equal in the Cabinet, and that perhaps it behoved him
to lead the Duke. At the commencement of their joint operations he had held the Duke in some
awe, and perhaps something of that feeling in reference to the Duke personally still restrained
him. The Dukes of Omnium had always been big people. But still it might be his duty to say
a word to the Duke. Sir Orlando assured himself that if ever convinced of the propriety of
doing so, he could say a word even to the Duke of Omnium. "I am confident that we should not
go on quite as we are at present," said Sir Timothy as he closed the conversation.

"Where did they pick him up?" said the Major to the Captain, pointing with his head to Ferdinand
Lopez, who was shooting with Angelica Thrift and Mr. Boffin and one of the Duke's private secretaries.

"The Duchess found him somewhere. He's one of those fabulously rich fellows out of the City
who make a hundred thousand pounds at a blow. They say his people were grandees of Spain."

"Does anybody know him?" asked the Major.

