I telegraphed you in the morning, or rather Uncle Clem, that I was safe and Andrew reported
safe, though now they tell me every one here thought he was lost and Thomas with him. Thomas's
wife was met at the station and informed of his death by some of the men, and six hours afterwards
Thomas came home, yet more dead than alive, poor man. It is very hard to write, as all the
country people and men have been here to tell me how glad they are "I got my husband safely
back, and that I am a powerful sight lucky young woman." Well, mother darling, make your mind
easy about your children now. Andrew is safe and well, though pretty well exhausted, and his
feet are so sore and swollen he can hardly stand, and can't wear anything but rubbers, as his
mountain shoes he cut to pieces. He left early this morning, but will be back to-night. I cannot
begin to tell you of the horrors, as the papers do not half picture the distress. New Florence
was not flooded, though some of the people left the place on Friday night and went up on Squirrel
Hill.

Scenes at the River.

I went down to the river once, and that was enough, as I knew Andrew would not like me to see
the sorrow, for which there was no help. I went just after the bridge fell, saw Centreville
flooded and the people make a dash for the mountain. Yesterday two hundred and three bodies
were taken from the river near here, and yet every train takes away more. The freight cars
have taken nothing but human freight, and wagon load after wagon load of dead bodies have been
right in front of the house. There was a child about Nellie's age, with light hair, dead in
the wagon, with her hands clasped, saying her prayers, and her blue eyes staring wide open.
By her side lay a man with a pipe in his mouth, naked children, and a woman with a baby at
her breast. Oh, the terror on their faces. Two women and three men were rescued here, and a
German family of mother, four children and father. I had them all on my hands to look after;
no one could make them understand, and how I ever managed it I don't know, but I did. They
lost two children and their home, but had a little money and were going to his brother's, at
Hazleton. They got here in the night and left at noon, and it would have done your heart good
to see them eat. One was a baby five weeks old.

Help Needed.

Now, mother, I want you to go around among the family and get me everything in the way of clothes
you possibly can, and get Uncle Clem to express them to me. I should also like money, and as
much as you can get can be used. I am pretty well cleaned out of everything, as all the cattle
and stock have been lost and nothing can be bought here, and all I have in the way of provisions
is some preserves, chocolate, coffee, olives and crackers. We can't starve, as we have the
chickens. I got the last meat from the butcher's yesterday, and he said he didn't expect to
have any more for a week, so I told Uncle Clem I would not mind having two hams from Pittsburgh,
and was very grateful for his telegram. I telegraphed him in the morning; also, Uncle White
at Germantown, so that they might know I was all right, but from Auntie's telegram I judge
Uncle Clem's telegrams were the only ones that got through. If I find I need provisions I will
let you know, but do not think I will need anything for myself, and the poor are being fed
by the relief supplies, and what is needed now is money and clothes.

Helpers.

