The Duke of Perth was one of the most sanguine of those who desired to see Charles Edward land
on the coast of Scotland. Of the representations which induced the Prince to take that step,
and especially of the part taken in the affair by the well-known Murray of Broughton, various
accounts have been given. From Mr. Home we learn, that Mr. Murray used every argument in his
power to deter the Prince from invading Scotland without a regular force to support him. This
account was doubtless the version which the Secretary himself gave of his part in the business.
The statement of Lord Elcho differs greatly from that of Mr. Home.[220]

"Mr. Murray," says Lord Elcho, "in the beginning of the year 1745, sent one young Glengarry
to the Prince with a state of his affairs in Scotland, in which it is believed he represented
everybody that had ever spoke warmly of the Stuart family, as people that would join him if
he came."[221] After Mr. Murray's own visit to France, he had an interview with all the members
of the Association, and there detailed to them the conference he had had with the Prince. The
Duke of Perth was the only person who did not, in that council, expressly declare against the
Prince's coming to Scotland without assistance from France.

The battle of Fontenoy, on the eleventh of May 1745, in which the British army was cut to pieces,
encouraged, nevertheless, the ardent spirit of Charles to proceed in his enterprise. The number
of regular troops in Scotland he well knew, was at that time inconsiderable; and he had, as
he conceived, from the representations of Murray, no other opponents than the British army.
He was, probably, wholly ignorant of the powerful enemies who afterwards co-operated against
him in the south-western parts of Scotland.[222]

The Duke of Perth had already, in the beginning of the year, received, as well as others, his
commission. He was appointed General of the forces in the north of Scotland, and was therefore
one of the most important personages for Government to seize. The Duke was at that time at
Drummond Castle, a place only exceeded in beauty and splendour, in the Highlands, by Dunkeld
and Blair. The aspect of this commanding edifice is one which recalls the association of ancient
power and princely wealth. Beneath its walls is an expanse of a magnificent and varied country,
combining all those features which characterize lands long held in peace by opulent and liberal
possessors. "Noble avenues, profuse woods," thus speaks one of unerring accuracy, "a waste
of lawn and pasture, an unrestrained scope, everything bespeaks the carelessness of liberality
and extensive possessions; while the ancient castle, its earliest part belonging to the year
1500, stamps on it that air of high and distant opulence which adds so deep a moral interest
to the rural features of baronial Britain."[223]

From the castle it was now attempted to make the Duke of Perth a prisoner; but since it would
have been impossible to detain a Chief, prisoner in his own halls, and among his own retainers,
a stratagem, peculiarly revolting to the Highland code of honour, was adopted to ensnare the
young nobleman.

Two Highland officers, Sir Patrick Murray and Mr. Campbell of Inverary, were employed in this
transaction, and a warrant was given to them to apprehend the Duke of Perth. This they knew
to be impossible without a large force; they therefore condescended to lower the character
of Scotchmen, by violating the first principles which regulate the intercourse of gentlemen.
They were base enough to abuse the hospitality of the kind and ready host who had often welcomed
them to Drummond Castle.

One day, these gentlemen sent the Duke word that they should dine with him; he returned, in
answer, that he should be proud to see them. On the twenty-sixth of July, 1745, they went,
and were entertained at dinner with the liberal courtesy which always shone forth under that
roof. One of the Duke's footmen, meantime, having espied an armed force about the house, called
his Grace to the door of the room, and begged him to take care of himself. This caution was
even repeated more than once; but the Duke, trusting that others were like himself, only smiled,
and said he did not think that any gentleman "could be guilty of so dirty an action." But he
found that he was mistaken. After dinner, when the officers had drunk a little, they took courage
to inform the Duke of their errand; and, to confirm their statement, one of them drew the warrant
out of his pocket. The Duke behaved with great presence of mind; he received their summons
calmly, but begged permission to retire to a closet in the room where they were sitting, to
get himself ready. This was assented to: the Duke went into the closet, in which, however,
there was a door; he opened it and, slipping down a flight of stairs, escaped to a wood adjacent
to his Castle. This wood was already surrounded by an armed force, and he was obliged to crawl
on his hands and feet to avoid being observed by the sentinels. In such a situation he was
hindered and wounded by briers and thorns, and at last was obliged to hide himself in a dry
ditch from his pursuers. They were, indeed, misled by the servants at the Castle, who, upon
their inquiring for the fugitive, declared that he had gone away on horseback. The officers
however on their return to Crieff, where they were quartered, passed so near the place where
he lay, that he heard what they were saying. When all the soldiers were out of sight, he sprang
up; and seeing a countryman with a pony, having no bridle, but only a halter about its neck,
he begged to have the use of it, and his request was granted. After this, he first rode to
the house of Mr. Murray of Abercairney, and afterwards to that of Mr. Drummond of Logie. Here
he was saved by one of those presentiments of evil which one can neither explain nor deny.
In the dead of night he was awakened by his host, who begged the Duke to take refuge elsewhere;
for fears, which he could not account for, haunted his mind. The fugitive arose from his bed,
and set off elsewhere. Shortly afterwards the house was invaded by a party of armed men, who
came to search for him, but retired disappointed. His next meeting with his faithless guest,
Sir Patrick Murray, was on the field of Gladsmuir, when the treacherous officer was made prisoner.
The Duke then took his revenge with characteristic good-humour; for, after saluting the captured
officer, he said smilingly, "Sir Patie, I am to dine with you to-day."[224]

After his escape from Logie, the Duke of Perth crossed over to Angus, incognito, and, attended
only by one servant, rode through the north country without molestation, and arrived at the
camp of Prince Charles. Here he met the afterwards celebrated Roy Stuart, then a captain of
Grenadiers in Lord John Drummond's' regiment. That officer had embarked at Helvoetsluys for
Harwich, where he had scarcely arrived before the ship in which he had sailed was searched
by authority of a Government warrant.

Charles Edward was at this time at Castle Mingry, whence accounts had travelled to the capital
of his arrival and projected hostilities. It was long before his intentions were even believed;
and, when believed, they were treated at first with contempt. The Duke of Argyll, who was then
at Roseneath, had an intercepted letter of the Prince's put into his hands, addressed to Sir
Alexander Macdonald, together with a copy of one to the Laird of Macleod. The Duke hastened
to Edinburgh, and laid these papers before Mr. Craigie the advocate. "What a strange chimera,"
said Craigie, laughing, "is it to suppose a young man with seven persons capable of overturning
a throne!" "His landing with seven persons only," replied Argyll gravely, "is a circumstance
the more to be feared."[225]

Sir John Cope, nevertheless, long delayed obeying the orders of Government to march northwards,
although great pains were taken by some of the Whig party to magnify the danger, and to add
to the terrors of the foe. Reports were even stated, in the presence of the magistrates, of
a camp in Ardnamirchan, which was a large Scots mile in circumference,--of several ships of
war hovering near the coast,--of cannon of an enormous size; whilst the young Chevalier was
described as one of the strongest men in Christendom. All agreed that the invader had chosen
the period of his enterprise judiciously. Scotland contained but few forces, and those were
newly levied men, sufficient in number merely to garrison the forts and to overawe smugglers.

Never was a country less prepared to receive an invasion,[226] and General Cope's blunders
soon encouraged the hopes of the Jacobites, until they were elated beyond measure. The sanguine
Charles Edward pledged the General's health in a glass of brandy: "Here's a health to Mr. Cope!"
he cried, in the presence of his forces; "and, if all the Usurper's generals follow his example,
I shall soon be at St. James's." The toast was given by the private soldiers, to whom whiskey
was distributed to drink it. Well furnished with artillery, of which the insurgents were destitute,
General Cope might have obtained an easy victory, or at any rate have dispersed the Jacobite
army. Happy would it have been for Scotland, had the rebellion thus been extinguished, before
the brave had sunk in civil strife, or loyal hearts been broken in the silent agony of imprisonment!
Many acts of heroism, numberless traits of fortitude, would indeed have been lost to the mournful
admiration of posterity; but the vigorous hand, which crushes a hopeless struggle in its outset,
is ever, in effect, the hand of mercy.

From this time the Duke of Perth shared in the short-lived triumph of his Prince. He marched
with the army to Dunkeld, where, supping in the house of James, Duke of Atholl, who retired
at their approach, the unfortunate Charles Edward forced a gaiety which he was said, at that
time, not to feel; asked for Scottish dishes; and, having picked up a few words of Gaelic,
pledged the Highland officers in that tongue. The Duke of Perth attended in the triumphant
entrance into Perth on the fourth of September. This was the first town of consequence that
Charles Edward had visited; and his appearance, mounted on a fine horse presented to him by
Major Macdonell, and dressed in a superb suit of tartan trimmed with gold, produced a great
impression upon the assembled multitude, who greeted him with loud acclamations. He was conducted
in triumph to the house of Viscount Stormont, the eldest brother of the celebrated Earl of
Mansfield. Lord Stormont, though friendly to the cause, was not disposed to risk his life and
property for the Stuarts. He withdrew from the dangerous honour of entertaining the Prince,
yet left his family to receive him with all loyalty, and the Chevalier took up his abode at
Lord Stormont's. It was an antique house with a wooden front, which stood on the spot now occupied
by the Perth Union Bank, near the bottom of the High-street.[227] The evening was closed by
a ball given by the Prince to the ladies of the town. The Prince, probably wearied by the day's
proceedings, danced only one dance, and then withdrew. His bed, it is said, was prepared by
the fair hands of Lord Stormont's sister.

On the following day a different scene took place, for all was not compliment that Charles
encountered in the loyal town of Perth. Mass having been celebrated publicly, Charles was as
publicly rebuked by a minister of the Kirk, who reminded him of his father's failure in the
last Rebellion, which he attributed to his adherence to Popery, to "which he had sacrificed
his crown." "I prefer," replied the young Chevalier boldly, "a heavenly crown to an earthly
one!"[228]

The Duke of Perth had summoned many of his tenants to meet him at Blair, where he required
them to bring all the rent due, under pain of punishment; and he now ordered them also to carry
arms to the extent of their power. He is said to have insisted upon his privilege as Chief,
with a degree of rigour which, when his power was exerted to force his tenants into a course
of certain peril, cannot be justified. Unhappily, the practice was of too frequent occurrence
among some of the chieftains to permit us entirely to dismiss it as a calumny. The amiable
Lord Derwentwater, the brave Lord Southesk, as has been remarked elsewhere, and proved by letters
and contemporary statements, were not free from a similar charge. The following anecdote is
so little in accordance with the forbearance assigned to the Duke of Perth both by enemies
and friends, that it must, however, be read with distrust. It is related by James Macpherson:[229]
speaking of the compulsory measures adopted, he says, "To this oppression of the Duke of Perth's
likewise several submitted (such are the terrors of arbitrary power). Three however resisted,
declaring that besides the inconvenience which the neglect of their affairs would subject them
to, and the danger of the undertaking, it was against their conscience to assist the cause
of Popery against the true religion of their country; to which one of them had the boldness
to add, he was sorry to see his Grace embarked in such a cause. Upon this, the Duke, flying
into a rage, snatched up a pistol which lay in his tent, and immediately shot the poor man
through the head. After which the other two made their escape from him, and one from the camp,
the other being pursued and killed by one of the rebels, who was witness to the whole transaction."

Whilst the army remained at Perth, a singular incident occurred, which seems to prove that
the subsequent surrender of Edinburgh was by no means unexpected by Prince Charles.[230]

One evening, when Macpherson was on duty as one of the Prince's guards, a person came to the
camp, and was by his desire conducted to the presence of the Chevalier. A long conference ensued,
at which the Duke of Perth and the Marquis of Tullibardine were present. Soon after the departure
of this stranger, it was rumoured that Edinburgh was to be betrayed to the Jacobites, and that
they were to take possession in a few days. There must, therefore, have been some secret communication.

In the memorable events which followed this rumour, the Duke of Perth continually shared. He
rode by the side of Charles Edward when the gallant adventurer, leaving Perth on the eleventh
of September, crossed the Firth at the Frew, and passed so near the walls of Stirling, that
the balls fired upon him and his forces from the castle fell within twenty yards of the Prince.
He proceeded on the march, commenced by the Chevalier with the sum of only one guinea in his
pocket, until they arrived at Gray's Hill, a place two miles west of Edinburgh. Here deputies
from the town arrived to treat with Charles. "I do not treat with subjects," was the Chevalier's
reply; whilst the Duke of Perth added, "The King's declaration, and the Prince's manifesto,
are such as every subject ought to accept with joy."

Meantime, a company of volunteers under the command of Captain Drummond, a gentleman of very
different political sentiments to those of the majority of this name, had assembled in the
College yard, when, after being addressed by their gallant leader, they proffered their services
to aid the dragoons stationed in the city, under the command of General Guest, in repelling
the Jacobites. On Sunday, the fire-bell sounding in the time of Divine service, emptied all
the churches; and the people, rushing into the streets, beheld the volunteers drawn up in the
Lawn Market, awaiting the arrival of the dragoons, with whom they were prepared to march out
of the town to repel the rebels. But this gallant resolution was not put into execution; and
a force of two thousand strong, not half of the soldiery having fire-locks, was suffered to
force their way into a town garrisoned by two thousand seven hundred soldiers, all well supplied
with arms and ammunition.

That Edinburgh was surrendered by the treachery of its Provost, seems beyond all doubt. Archibald
Stewart, who held that office at this critical moment, gave many indications of perfidy or
cowardice, which have been duly related, although with little comment, by historians. Notwithstanding
that the approach of the insurgents had been by measured paces, and that they had advanced
so leisurely as to spend some hours lying on the bank of a rivulet near Linlithgow, no preparations
for defence had been made, although it was the wish of many of the inhabitants to resist the
Jacobite army. It had been found that all the calms, or moulds for bullets, had been bought
up; ladies having gone to the shops where they were made, to purchase them. When the danger
became proximate, the Provost merely remarked, that, if the enemy wished to enter, he did not
know how they could be prevented. He viewed the fortifications, it is true, and rummaged up
some grenades that had lain in a chest since 1715. But the most suspicious incident occurred
during a meeting of the Town Council, when a Highland spy, having a letter in his hand, was
apprehended, and brought before the assembly. The letter was given to the Provost, who hurried
it into his pocket, and in great haste broke up the assembly.[231] In all the deliberations
for the defence of the city, it was perceived that Mr. Provost Stewart was a dead-weight upon
any measures of vigour; and nothing could have been done to preserve Edinburgh from surrendering,
unless he had been absolutely bound in chains. Yet this unworthy magistrate, so faithless to
his trust, so discreditable an instrument of the Jacobite cause, was afterwards acquitted,
after a trial of four days, by the Lords Justiciary.

The progress of that cause now appeared such as to promise success to the future exertions
of its partisans. On the seventeenth of September, the Prince received the news that Edinburgh
was taken, and a stand of one thousand arms seized; a circumstance which added greatly to the
joy of the insurgents, who stood in need of arms. "When the army came near town," writes Lord
Elcho, "it was met by vast multitudes of people, who by their repeated shouts and huzzas expressed
a great deal of joy to see the Prince. When they came into the suburbs, the crowd was prodigious,
and all wishing the Prince prosperity; in short, nobody doubted but that he would be joined
by ten thousand men at Edinburgh, if he could arm them. The army took the road to Duddingston:
Lord Strathallan marching first, at the head of the horse; the Prince next, on horseback, with
the Duke of Perth on his right, and Lord Elcho on his left; then Lord George Murray, on foot,
at the head of the column of infantry. From Duddingston, the army entered the King's Park,
by a breach made in the wall. Lord George halted some time in the park, but afterwards marched
the foot to Duddingston; and the Prince continued on horseback, always followed by the crowd,
who were happy if they could touch his boots, or his horse furniture. In the steepest part
of the road going down to the Abbey, he was obliged to alight and walk; but the mob, out of
curiosity, and some out of fondness, to touch him or kiss his hand, were like to throw him
down: so, as soon as he was down the hill, he mounted his horse and rode through St. Anne's
Yard into Holyrood House, amidst the cries of six thousand people, who filled the air with
their acclamations of joy. He dismounted in the inner court, and went up stairs into the gallery;
and from thence into the Duke of Hamilton's apartments, which he occupied all the time he was
at Edinburgh. The crowd continued all night in the outer court of the Abbey, and huzzaed every
time the Prince appeared at the window. He was joined, upon his entering the Abbey, by the
Earl of Kelly, Lord Balmerino, Mr. Hepburn of Keith, Mr. Lockhart younger of Carnwath, Mr.
Graham younger of Airth, Mr. Rollo younger of Powhouse, Mr. Stirling of Craigbarnet, Mr. Hamilton
of Bangor, Sir David Murray, and several other gentlemen of distinction: but not one of the
mob, who were so fond of seeing him, were asked to enlist in his service; and, when he marched
to fight Cope, he had not one of them in his army."[232]

The Prince, who was thus received with acclamations into the home of his forefathers, was at
this time in the bloom of youth, being in the twenty-fifth year of his age. Neither the agitation
produced by the events of that critical day on his sensitive temper, nor the fatigue of the
previous march to a young soldier, could diminish the grace of his deportment, nor hide the
natural majesty of his carriage. "The figure and presence of Charles Stuart," even Home remarks,
"were not ill-suited to his lofty pretensions." He was in height about five feet ten inches,
of a slender form; his features were aquiline; his complexion, though ruddy from the Highland
air, was naturally fair. He had the pointed chin, and small mouth in proportion to his other
features, of Charles the First. The colour of his eyes has been variously described; being,
according to some, "large rolling brown eyes," whilst in many of his portraits he is depicted
as having full blue eyes.[233] The hair of Charles Stuart was concealed under a "pale peruke;"
but, is said to have been red, or, according to most of his portraits, of a sandy hue. As he
rode, with extreme grace, upon a fine bay gelding presented to him by the Duke of Perth, the
bystanders remarked that an "irregular smile," as one of them has expressed it, lighted up,
by fits, a countenance which told but too plainly every emotion of the heart. An anxious, watchful
look was, at times, directed to those around and near him; and, in particular, rested on the
face of Lord Elcho, who, though a gallant officer, the Prince may perhaps have too well conjectured,
was not, even at that early period, a sincere and firm adherent. To the Duke of Perth, on the
contrary, the ill-fated young Chevalier showed a marked respect, and sat for some moments on
horseback in St. Anne's Yard, whilst the Duke, like "an intelligent farmer, informed him of
the different nature and produce of the different parcels of ground."[234] Dressed, as he was,
in the Highland garb,--a blue sash wrought with gold coming over his shoulder, a green velvet
bonnet with a gold lace round it on his head, a white cockade,--the cross of St. Andrew on
his breast, his hand resting on a silver-hilted sword, and a pair of pistols on his saddle;--associated
in the minds of all around him with the remembrance of Scotland in her independence, and of
Scottish monarchs in their greatness, the enthusiasm which was inspired in a slow, but ardent
people cannot be a matter of surprise. Long did the remembrance of that day continue to be
cherished, in mingled pride and sorrow! It is true, the opinions of men differed according
to their secret bias. The Jacobites, who looked on the young Prince, compared him to Robert
the Bruce, to whom he bore, they fancied, a resemblance. The Whigs beheld in him the gentleman
of fashion, but not the hero and the conqueror. All parties seem to have remarked the dejection
and languor of his manner as he prepared to enter the palace of Holyrood.

It was, indeed, impossible, from the deportment of Charles on his first introduction into Scotland,
or from his conduct whilst his affairs prospered, to comprehend the strength of his determination,
or to calculate upon his power of endurance. In prosperity he was, it is true, brave, courteous,
often amiable, often generous, but sometimes betraying the petulance and obstinacy which historians
have been fond of considering as hereditary propensities in the heroic young man, but which
are the common attributes of the inexperienced and the spoiled. In adversity he was meek, grateful,
magnanimous; capable of forgetting his own unparalleled sufferings, in considering those of
others; never breathing an accent of revenge; rising above fortune. He resembled Charles the
Second more in his hatred of shedding blood, than in his vices, which were in the young Chevalier
the effect of circumstances, rather than of a depraved nature. He had the fortitude of Charles
the First: in truth, and right intention he exceeded both of these his ancestors; and in this,
as in other respects, he showed more of the Scottish character, more of the true sense of Highland
honour, than any of his immediate predecessors in the Stuart line. Naturally gay, though variable;
quick and shrewd, rather than deep or strong in intellect; easily to be flattered, too easily
led by some, too wilful in resisting the counsels of others,--as a Prince, as the head of a
Court, he soon won upon the affections of the people who beheld him; but there were vital defects
mingled with his great and good qualities, which well verified the saying of the Whigs, "that
he would prove neither a hero nor a conqueror."

As the Prince walked along the piazza close to the apartment of the Duke of Hamilton, a gentleman
stepped out of the crowd, and, drawing his sword, raised his arm aloft, and walked up stairs
before Charles Edward. The remarkable person who thus signalized his loyalty was James Hepburn
of Keith, a gentleman of learning and intelligence, whose Jacobitism was of a more enlightened
description than that of the party with whom he thus identified himself. Since the insurrection
of 1715, in which, when a very young man, he had been engaged, Mr. Hepburn had become a professed
Jacobite. Yet he disclaimed the hereditary, indefeasible right of Kings, and condemned the
measures of James the Second. Cherishing even these opinions, he had nevertheless kept himself
during twenty years ready to take up arms for Charles Edward, from a hatred to the Union between
England and Scotland, a measure which he deemed injurious and humiliating to his country. Idolized
by the Jacobites, beloved by some of the Whigs, a "model of ancient simplicity, manliness and
honour,"[235] the accession of Hepburn to the Jacobite cause was lamented by those who esteemed
him, and who saw in his notions of the independence of Scotland only a visionary speculation.

The entrance of Prince Charles had taken place early in the day: soon after noon he was proclaimed
Regent at the ancient Cross of Edinburgh, and his father's manifesto was read in the same place.
Six heralds in their robes, with a trumpet, came to the Cross, which was surrounded by the
brave Camerons in three ranks. The streets and windows were crowded to excess; whilst David
Beato, a writing-master in Edinburgh, read the papers to the heralds. The beautiful Mrs. Murray
of Broughton sat on horseback with a drawn sword in her hand beside the Cross, her dress decorated
with the white ribbon which was the token of adherence to the House of Stuart. Whilst these
events took place, a spectator in the crowd, viewing clearly that all was the show of power,
without the substantial capacity to perpetuate it, resolved to write the history of what, he
foresaw, would be a short-lived though perhaps fierce contest. He was not mistaken. This individual
was Alexander Henderson.

The following account is given by Lord Elcho of the Chevalier's court during the short time
that he inhabited Holyrood House.[236]

"The Prince lived in Edinburgh, from the twenty-second of September to the thirty-first of
October, with great splendour and magnificence;--had every morning a numerous court of his
officers. After he had held a council, he dined with his principal officers in public, where
there was always a crowd of all sorts of people to see him dine. After dinner he rode out,
attended by his life-guards, and reviewed his army; where there were always a great number
of spectators, in coaches and on horseback. After the review he came to the Abbey, where he
received the ladies of fashion that came to his drawing-room. Then he supped in public; and
generally there was music at supper, and a ball afterwards. Before he left Edinburgh, he despatched
Sir James Stewart to manage his affairs in the country and solicit succours."

This remarkable scene was soon followed by the battle of Preston Pans. The memorable words
of Charles Edward before the victory, "I have flung away the scabbard!" were followed by a
total rout of the King's troops. The Duke of Perth was appointed Lieutenant-general of the
forces. After the engagement which ensued, when the heat of the contest was over, he distinguished
himself in a manner in which every brave and loyal man would wish to imitate his example,--by
saving the lives of the combatants. His tenantry, commanded by Lord Nairn, were among the most
eager of the combatants on that day. When the defeat of the King's troops was manifest, a terrible
carnage ensued. Some of the conquered threw down their arms, and begged for quarter, which
was refused them; others, who fled into the enclosures, were murdered; and all who were overtaken
were cut in the most cruel manner by broad-swords and Lochaber axes.

The kind-hearted Duke of Perth, seeing this slaughter, made a signal to Cameron of Lochiel
to stop the impetuosity of his men; and sent his aid-de-camp, or, as he was then called, his
gentleman, for that purpose. No sooner had the Duke done this, than he sprang himself upon
a fleet bay mare, a racer, which had won the King's plate at Leith some years before; and,
taking a Major of the King's troops along with him, "shot like an arrow through the field,"
and saved numbers: as also did his gentleman, Mr. Stuart.[237]

But these efforts were insufficient to prevent a cruel and terrible destruction of some of
the bravest and best of the British officers. In the battle of Preston Pans fell the famous
Colonel Gardiner. His fate was, it is said, envied by General Cope, who, witnessing the destruction
of his army, wished to have died on the field.

Whilst the Highlanders were carried away to the house of Colonel Gardiner, close by, the young
Chevalier stood by the road-side, having sent to Edinburgh by the advice of the Duke of Perth
for surgeons. At this moment, Henderson, that spectator of the proclamation who had resolved
to write a history of the war, having slept at Musselburgh, only at two miles' distance, the
night before, stepped forward to take a survey of the field. "It was one scene of horror, capable,"
writes this historian,[238] "of softening the hardest heart, being strewed not so much with
the dead as with the wounded: the broken guns, halberts, pikes, and canteens showing the work
of the day. In the midst of this distressing spectacle, an act of mercy shone forth, like a
light from Heaven." "Major Bowles," continues Henderson, "of Hamilton's Dragoons, being dismounted,
the enemy fell upon and wounded him in eleven different places; and just as some inhuman wretch
was fetching a stroke, which perhaps would have proved mortal, Mr. Stuart threw up his sword
and awarded the blow."

From Preston Pans Charles Edward rode to Pinkie House, a seat of the Marquis of Tweedale. In
the elation of victory, a consideration which can alone excuse the disregard of the sufferings
of others which the foregoing narrative states, the Prince is said to have left the bulk of
the wounded upon the field until the next day, when they were brought in carts to the infirmary
of Edinburgh. The neighbourhood was afterwards scattered over with the wounded who recovered,
and who begged throughout the country, where they met with kindness and humanity from all,
except from the Adventurers, as they were called. Such is the testimony of one who has not
failed to bear witness to acts of humanity where they really existed; and it would be unfair
to suppress the statements of contemporaries on either side of the question. At the same time,
this account is wholly at variance with the deep sorrow afterwards betrayed by Charles when
he spoke of the sufferings of the Scottish people on his account; nor is it consistent with
the sensibility and humanity evinced, as the same historian avows, by the Duke of Perth.[239]

Upon the return of Prince Charles to Edinburgh, in order to carry on affairs with every appearance
of royalty, he appointed a council, who met every day at Holyrood House at ten o'clock for
the despatch of business. The members of this council were the two Lieutenants-general, the
Duke of Perth, and Lord George Murray, who had been appointed in conjunction with the former;
Secretary Murray; Sullivan, Quarter-master-general; Lord Pitsligo, Lord Elcho, Sir Thomas Sheridan,
and all the Highland chiefs.

The fine characteristics, and powerful mind of Lord George Murray, and the prominent part which
he took in the insurrection, demand a long and separate account. Among the rest of this ill-starred
council, the principal members in point of rank, if not of influence, were Alexander, Lord
Forbes of Pitsligo, who, after the battle of Preston, joined the Prince's standard with a troop
of a hundred horse. The character of this nobleman gave his example a great influence among
all who knew him, and who respected the ardent piety, bordering upon fanaticism, which characterized
his religious sentiments, and the heartfelt earnestness of his political opinions. Early in
life this venerable man had sworn allegiance to William the Third, and taken his seat in Parliament;
he became, however, an opponent to the Union, and, from the period of that measure, his course
was a decided system of calm and steady adherence to Jacobite principles. He engaged in the
rebellion of 1715, yet by the forbearance of Government was permitted to retain his title and
estate. He now again embarked in the same adventurous cause, leaving the study of moral philosophy,
on which he had written several essays, and the security of a private career, for the sake
of conscience. No hope of gain, no inducement of ambition, lured this adherent of Charles Edward
to the standard of the Stuarts. Aged, and so infirm that he was compelled by his bodily weakness
to accept the generous proposal of Charles Edward to travel on all the marches in the Prince's
carriage, whilst the Chevalier walked at the head of his army, Lord Pitsligo again came forward
at what he conceived to be the dictates of duty. His example drew many others into the undertaking.
Of course, his subsequent history closed in the usual melancholy manner: his life was, it is
true, spared; but his estates were forfeited, and his title extinguished. He died at Auchiries,
in Aberdeenshire.

David, Lord Elcho, who held also a place in the council, and who was colonel of the first troop
of Horseguards, was the son of James, fourth Earl of Wemyss, and of Janet the daughter of Colonel
Francis Charteris of Amisfield, whose immense property was afterwards vested in the Wemyss
family. Lord Elcho was at this time only twenty-four years of age, and therefore his appointment
to the colonelcy of the horse was a signal compliment to his abilities. Of his personal character
much may be gleaned from his unpublished narrative, written in a dry, caustic, and uninspiring
style; and penned by one who seems to have desired to do justice, but whose personal dislike
to the young Chevalier over-masters his inclination to the cause. Notwithstanding a plain disapproval
of many measures, and a marked conviction of the wilfulness of his young leader, Lord Elcho
was true to the cause which he had adopted. His account of the manner in which the council
of the Regent, as he was styled, was conducted, is so characteristic, not only of those to
whom he refers, but of his own mind, that I shall give it in the unvarnished phraseology in
which he composed it.[240]

"The Prince in his council used always first to declare what he was for, and then he asked
everybody's opinion in their turn. There was one-third of the council whose principles were,
that Kings and Princes can never either act, or think wrong; so, in consequence, they always
confirmed whatever the Prince said. The other two-thirds, who thought that Kings and Princes
thought sometimes like other men, and were not altogether infallible, and that this Prince
was no more so than others, begged leave to differ from him, when they could give sufficient
reasons for their difference of opinion, which very often was no hard matter to do; for as
the Prince and his old governor, Sir Thomas Sheridan, were altogether ignorant of the ways
and customs in Great Britain, and both much for the doctrine of absolute monarchy, they would
very often, had they not been prevented, have fallen into blunders which might have hurt the
cause. The Prince could not bear to hear anybody differ in sentiment from him, and took a dislike
to everybody that did; for he had a notion of commanding this army, as any general does a body
of mercenaries, and so let them know only what he pleased, and they obey without inquiring
further about the matter. This might have done better had his favourites been people of the
country; but they were Irish, and had nothing at stake. The Scotch, who ought to be supposed
to give the best advice they were capable of giving, thought they had a little right to know,
and be consulted in what was for the good of the cause in which they had so much concern; and,
if it had not been for their insisting strongly upon it, the Prince, when he found that his
sentiments were not always approved of, would have abolished his council long ere he did. There
was a very good paper sent one day by a gentleman in Edinburgh, to be perused by this council.
The Prince, when he heard it read, said that it was below his dignity to enter into such a
reasoning with subjects, and ordered the paper to be laid aside. The paper afterwards was printed
under the title of the Prince's Declaration to the People of England, and is esteemed the best
manifesto published in those times; for the ones that were printed at Rome and Paris were reckoned
not well calculated for the present age."

Before the Prince had left Edinburgh, intrigues had begun to distract his councils. "An ill-timed
emulation," remarks an eye-witness of the rebellion, "soon crept in, and bred great dissension
and animosities: the council was insensibly divided into factions, and came to be of little
use, when measures were approved of, or condemned, not for themselves, but for the sake of
their author."[241] Unhappily, the Duke of Perth, amiable, but inexperienced and unsuspecting,
confided in one whose machinations, guided by an unbounded love of rule, eventually accelerated
the ruin of the cause.

The very name of Murray of Broughton recalls with a shudder the remembrance of selfish ambition
and treachery. This unprincipled man, private secretary to Charles Edward, had a remarkable
influence over the young Chevalier's mind; an influence acquired during a long and intimate
acquaintance abroad. "He was," observes Mr. Maxwell, "the only personal acquaintance the Prince
found in Scotland." To a desire of having the sole government of the Prince's council he "sacrificed
what chance there was of a restoration, although upon that all his hopes were built." The expedition
to Scotland and England was, according to the same authority, the entire suggestion of Murray;
and the credit of that success which had hitherto attended the attempt, was now solely attributed
to the secretary's advice. "The Duke of Perth," adds the same writer, "judging of Murray's
heart by his own, entertained the highest opinion of his integrity, went readily into all his
schemes, and confirmed the Prince in the esteem he had already conceived for Murray."

The man whom Murray most dreaded as a rival was Lord George Murray, the coadjutor with the
Duke of Perth in the command of the army; and it soon became no difficult task, not only to
persuade Prince Charles, who knew but little personally of Lord George, that that impetuous
but honest man was a traitor, but also to inspire the amiable Duke of Perth with suspicions
foreign to his generous nature. Few of the calm spectators of the struggle were very sanguine
as to its result; but the moderate hopes which they dared to entertain were all dashed to the
ground by the unbridled love of sway which the secretary indulged, and which filled him with
a base and bitter enmity towards men of talent and influence. Too truly is the effect of his
representations told in these few and simple words, written by one who was devotedly attached
to the misled, confiding Charles, upon whose ignorance of the world Murray condescended to
practise.[242]

"All those gentlemen that joined the Prince after Murray, were made known under the character
he thought fit to give them; and all employments about the Prince's person, and many in the
army, were of his nomination. These he filled with such as he had reason to think would never
thwart his measures, but be content to be his tools and creatures without aspiring higher.
Thus, some places of the greatest trust were given to little insignificant fellows; while there
were abundance of gentlemen of figure and merit that had no employment at all, and who might
have been of great use, had they been properly employed. These were some of the disadvantages
the Prince laboured under during this whole expedition."

As soon as the expedition into England was decided, a gentleman was dispatched to France to
hasten the assistance expected from that quarter. The first intention of the insurgents was
to march to Newcastle, and give battle to General Wade; then to proceed, if the Prince proved
victorious, by the eastern coast to England, in order to favour the expected landing of the
French upon that side. This scheme was overruled by Lord George Murray, with what success history
has declared. It was natural, when all was lost, for those who wished well to the cause, to
retrace their steps, and to desire that any measures had been adopted, rather than those which
had proved so disastrous: but this is the common feeling of regret, and cannot be relied on
as the sober dictate of judgment.

On his departure from Edinburgh, the young Chevalier was followed by the good will of many
who had viewed his arrival with regret. The people, says Maxwell of Kirkconnel, "were affected
with the dangers they apprehended he might be exposed to, and doubtful whether they ever should
see him again."[243] "Everybody was mightily taken," adds the same writer, "with the Prince's
figure and personal behaviour. There was but one voice about them." What was still more important,
the short duration of military rule exercised by Charles Edward had been so conducted as to
create no disgust. The guard of the city had been entrusted to Cameron of Lochiel, the younger;
and under his firm and judicious controul, the persons and effects of the citizens, had been
as secure as in time of peace. "The people had the pleasure of seeing the whole apparatus of
war, without feeling the effects of it."[244] Day after day some new and graceful instance
of the humanity and kindness of the young Chevalier's disposition had transpired. At this period
of his life there was a degree of magnanimity in the sentiments of one, of whose principles
despair, and the desertion of his friends afterwards made such a wreck. The following trait
of this ill-fated young man is too beautiful--it reflects too much credit, through him, upon
the party of whom he was the head--to be omitted; more especially as the narrative from which
it is taken is not in the hands of general readers. On the following day he joined one column
of his army at Dalkeith. The army marched in two columns, by different roads, to Carlisle:
that which the Prince commanded, and which was conducted by Lord George Murray, was composed
of the Guards, and the Clans; Charles Edward marched on foot at the head of the Highlanders,
and the Guards led the van. The other column went by Peebles and Moffat, having with them the
artillery and heavy baggage. It was composed of the Atholl brigade, the Duke of Perth's regiment,
Lord Ogilvie, of Glenbucket, and Roy Stuart's regiment. The greater part of the horse was commanded
by the Duke of Perth. A week afterwards these two columns were re-united, and the troops were
quartered in villages to the west of Carlisle.

On the thirteenth of October the town of Carlisle was invested by the Duke of Perth and Lord
George Murray, with the horse and Lowland regiments. The conduct of the Duke of Perth, during
the siege of five days which ensued, has been a subject of eulogy for every writer who has
undertaken to relate the affairs of the period. The siege was attempted in the face of many
difficulties, the Prince having no battering cannon; so that, if the town had been well defended,
it would have been found impossible to reduce it: still, being a place of great strength, and
the key to England, he resolved to make the attempt.

It was in this undertaking that the Duke of Perth reaped the benefit of his scientific knowledge
of the art of war, and that he showed a degree of skill as well as of military ardour, which
would, had his life been spared, have rendered him an excellent general. The castle of Carlisle,
built upon the east angle of the fortifications, was of course the object of his attack. On
Tuesday, the thirteenth of October, after his return from Brampton, where the Prince remained
with the Clans to cover the siege, the Duke began his operations. His officers had forced four
carpenters to go along with them in order to assist in erecting the batteries. In short, all
ablebodied men were seized on by the insurgents, and those who had horses and ladders were
constrained to carry them to the siege of Carlisle.

The Duke then "broke ground," to use a military expression, about three hundred yards from
the citadel, at the Spring Garden; and encountered the fire of the cannon from the town, approaching
so near that the garrison even threw grenadoes at them. On Wednesday, the trenches were opened,
and were conducted by Mr. Grant, chief engineer, whose skill was greatly commended. On Friday
morning, batteries were erected within forty fathoms of the walls. During all this time the
cannon and small arms from the castle played furiously, but with so little destruction to the
besiegers, that only two men were killed.

The weather was so intensely cold, that even the Highlanders could scarcely sustain its inclemency;
yet the Duke of Perth and the Marquis of Tullibardine, the one delicate in constitution, the
other broken and in advancing age, worked at the trenches like any common labourer, in their
shirts. On the Friday, when the cannon began to play, and the scaling-ladders were brought
out for an assault, a white flag was hung out, and the city offered to surrender. An express
was sent to the Chevalier at Brampton; whose answer was, "that he would not do things by halves,"
and that the city had no reason to expect terms, unless the castle surrendered also. That event
took place, in consequence, immediately; and the capitulation was signed by the Duke of Perth,
and by Colonel Durand, who had been sent from London to defend Carlisle. In the afternoon of
the same day, the Duke of Perth entered the town, and took possession in the name of James
the Third, whose manifesto was read; the mayor and aldermen attending the Duke, the sword and
mace being carried before them.

The Duke of Perth won many of those who were enemies to Charles Edward, over to his cause,
by the humanity and civility with which he treated the conquered citizens, over whom he had
the chief command until Charles arrived. But even the important advantage thus gained could
not still the animosities which had been kindled in the breasts of those who ought to have
laid aside all private considerations for the good of their common undertaking. Hitherto Lord
George Murray and the Duke of Perth had had separate commands, and had not interfered with
each other until the siege of Carlisle. Here the Duke had acted as the chief in command; he
had directed the attack, signed the capitulation, and given orders in the town until the Prince
arrived. This was a precedent for the whole campaign, and it ill-suited the fiery temper of
Lord George Murray to brook it tamely. There was, indeed, much to be said in favour of Lord
George's alleged wrongs, in this preference of one so young and inexperienced as the Duke of
Perth. In the first place, Lord George was an older Lieutenant-General than his rival; nor
could it be agreeable to his Lordship to serve under a man so much his inferior in age and
experience. "Lord George," observes Mr. Maxwell, "thought himself the fittest man to be at
the head of the army; nor was he the only person that thought so. Had it been left to the gentlemen
of the army to choose a general, Lord George would have carried it by vast odds against the
Duke of Perth." But there was still another pretext, which was insisted upon as a reason less
offensive to the Duke of Perth, whose gentle and noble qualities had much endeared him even
to those who did not wish to see him chief in command; this was his religious persuasion. It
was argued that, at that time in England, Roman Catholics were excluded from all employments,
civil and military, by laws anterior to the Revolution; it was contended that these laws, whether
just or not, ought to be complied with until they were repealed; and that a defiance of these
laws would confirm all that had been heard of old from the press and from the pulpit, of the
Prince's designs to subvert both Church and State: neither could it be alleged in excuse for
the young Prince, that a superiority of genius or of experience had won this distinction, in
opposition to custom, for the Duke of Perth.

Whilst these murmurs distracted the camp, immediately after the surrender of Carlisle, Lord
George Murray resigned his commission of Lieutenant-General, and informed the Prince that thenceforth
he would serve as a volunteer. Upon this step, Mr. Maxwell, who seems to have known intimately
the merits of the case, makes the following temperate and beautiful reflection.[246] "It would
be rash in me to pretend to determine whether ambition, or zeal for the Prince's service, determined
Lord George to take this step; or, if both had a share in it, which was predominant: it belongs
to the Searcher of hearts to judge of an action which might have proceeded from very different
motives."

Under these circumstances, violent discussions took place in the army; and the result was,
the wise resolution on the part of a certain officer, not improbably Mr. Maxwell himself, to
represent the consequences of these altercations to the Duke of Perth. The undertaking was
one of delicacy and difficulty; but the individual who undertook it had not miscalculated the
true gentlemanly humility, the real dignity and disinterestedness, of the gallant man to whom
he addressed himself. The narrative goes on as follows:

"A gentleman who had been witness to such conversation, and dreaded nothing so much as dissension
in a cause which could never succeed but by unanimity, resolved to speak to the Duke of Perth
upon this ungrateful subject. He had observed that those that were loudest in their complaints
were least inclined to give themselves any trouble in finding out a remedy."

"The Duke, who at this time was happy, but not elevated, upon his success, reasoned very coolly
on the matter. He could never be convinced that it was unreasonable that he should have the
principal command; but when it was represented to him, that since that opinion prevailed, whether
well or ill founded, the Prince's affairs might equally suffer, he took his resolution in a
moment; said he never had anything in view but the Prince's interest, and would cheerfully
sacrifice everything to it. And he was as good as his word; for he took the first opportunity
of acquainting the Prince with the complaints that were against him, insisted upon being allowed
to give up his command, and to serve henceforth at the head of his regiment."

After his resignation, the Duke of Perth sank gracefully into the duties of the post assigned
to him. But his ardour in the cause was unsubdued; and he was frequently known, during the
march from Carlisle to Derby, to ride down three horses a day when information of the enemy
was to be procured. They were drawn up in the market-place, and remained there two hours; at
the same time the bells were rung, and bonfires were lighted, in order to do away with the
impression that the Chevalier's vanguard had been received disrespectfully. About three o'clock
Lord Elcho, on horseback, arrived at the head of the Life-guards, about one hundred and fifty
men, the flower of the army, who rode gallantly into the town, dressed like the vanguard, making
a very fine display. The Guards were followed by the main body of the army, who marched in
tolerable order, two or three abreast, with eight standards, mostly having white flags and
a red cross; the bag-pipers playing as they entered. Whilst they were in the market-place,
they caused the Chevalier to be proclaimed King, and then asked for the magistrates. These
functionaries appeared without their gowns of office, having cautiously sent them out of the
town; a circumstance which was with some difficulty excused by the insurgents.

In the dusk of the evening Charles Edward arrived: he walked on foot, attended by many of his
men, who followed him to Exeter House, where the Prince remained until his retreat northwards.
Here he had guards placed all round the house, and here he maintained the semblance of a Court,
in the very heart of that country which he so longed to enter.

The temporary abode of Charles Edward still remains in perfect repair, and much in the same
state, with the exception of change of furniture, as when he held levees there. Exeter House
at that time belonged to Brownlow, Earl of Exeter, whose connexion with the town of Derby was
owing to his marriage with a lady of that city. The house stands back from Full Street, and
is situated within a small triangular court. An air of repose, notwithstanding the noise of
a busy and important town, characterizes this interesting dwelling. It is devoid of pretension;
its gables and chimneys proclaim the Elizabethan period. A wide staircase, rising from a small
hall, leads to a square, oak-panelled drawing-room, the presence-chamber in the days of the
ill-fated Charles. On either side are chambers, retaining, as far as the walls are concerned,
much of the character of former days, but furnished recently. One of these served the Prince
as a sleeping-room; the rest were occupied by his officers of state, and by such of his retinue
as could be accommodated in a house of moderate size. The tenement contains many small rooms
and closets, well adapted, had there been need, for concealment and escape.

The back of Exeter House is picturesque in the extreme. The character of the building is here
more distinctly ancient; and its architecture is uniform, though simple. Beyond the steps by
which you descend from a spacious dining-room, is a long lawn, enclosed between high walls,
and extending to the brink of the river Derwent. A tradition prevails in Derby, that, after
the retreat, one of the Highland officers who had been left behind, hearing of the approach
of the Duke of Cumberland's army, escaped through this garden, and, plunging into the river,
swam down its quiet waters for a considerable distance, until he gained a part of the opposite
shore where he thought he might land without detection. Another more interesting association
connects the spot with the poet Dr. Darwin, who is said to have planted some willows which
grow on the opposite side of the river to Exeter House.

Here Charles remained for some days. The Dukes of Atholl and Perth, and the other noblemen
who commanded regiments, together with Lady Ogilvie and Mrs. Murray of Broughton, were lodged
in the best gentlemen's houses. Every house was tolerably well filled; but the Highlanders
continued pouring in till ten or eleven o'clock, until the burgesses of Derby began to think
they "should never have seen the last of them." "At their coming in," says the writer of the
letter referred to, "they were generally treated with bread, cheese, beer and ale, while all
hands were aloft getting supper ready. After supper, being weary with their long march, they
went to rest, most upon straw-beds, some in beds." On Friday morning, only two days after the
minds of the inhabitants had been agitated by the arrival of the Jacobites, they heard the
drums beat to arms, and the bag-pipers playing about the town. It was supposed that this was
a summons to a march to Loughborough, on the way to London; but a very different resolution
had been adopted.

The Prince's council had, the very morning before, met to advise their inexperienced leader
as to the steps which he might deem it advisable to take. The memorable decision to return
to the north was not arrived at without a painful scene, such as those who felt deeply the
situation of the Chevalier could never forget. The sentiments with which the ardent young man
listened to the proposal are thus detailed by Mr. Maxwell. The statement at once exonerates
the Prince of two faults with which his memory has been taxed, those of cowardice and obstinacy.
To a coward the great risk of advancing would have appeared in strong colours. An obstinate
man would never have yielded to the arguments which were proffered. The description which Maxwell
gives of the Prince's flatterers is such as too fatally applies to the generality of those
who have not the courage to be sincere.[248]

"The Prince, naturally bold and enterprising, and hitherto successful in everything, was shocked
with the mention of a retreat. They built much upon the confusion there was at London, and
the panic which prevailed among the Elector's troops at this juncture.

Never had the soldiery been in greater spirits than during their stay at Derby; but the deepest
dejection prevailed, when, in spite of some manoeuvres to deceive them, they found themselves
on the road to Ashbourn. The despair and disgust of the Prince were as painful to behold, as
they were natural. He had played for the highest stake, and lost it. Yet one there was who
could look on the drooping figure of the disconsolate young man as he followed the van of the
army, and attribute to ill-humour the dejection of that ardent and generous mind. The following
is an extract from Lord Elcho's narrative.

"Doncaster.--The Prince, who had marched all the way to Derby on foot at the head of a column
of infantry, now mounted on horseback, and rode generally after the van of the army, and appeared
to be out of humour. Upon the army marching out of Derby, Mr. Morgan, an English gentleman,
came up to Mr. Vaughan, who was riding in the Life-guards, and after saluting him said, 'D----
me, Vaughan, they are going to Scotland!' Mr. Vaughan replied, 'Wherever they go, I am determined,
now I have joined them, to go along with them.' Upon which Mr. Morgan said with an oath, 'I
had rather be hanged than go to Scotland to starve.' Mr. Morgan was hanged in 1746; and Mr.
Vaughan is an officer in Spain."[252]

In six days afterwards the Jacobite army arrived at Preston, and from this place, where the
Prince halted, he sent the Duke of Perth to Scotland to summon his friends from Perth to join
him, in order to renew the attack upon England. The Prince was resolved to retire only until
he met that reinforcement, and then to march to London, be the consequence what it would.[253]
But this scheme, so dearly cherished by Charles, was impracticable. The Duke of Perth, taking
with him an escort of seventy or eighty horse, set out for Kendal. He was assailed as he passed
through that place by a mob, which he dispersed by firing on them, and resumed his march; but
near Penrith he was attacked by a far more formidable force in a band of militia both horse
and foot, greatly superior in numbers to his troops, and was obliged to retire to Kendal. On
the fifteenth he rejoined the Prince's army, after this fruitless attempt. The retreat of the
Prince's army, managed as it was with consummate skill by Lord George Murray, continued without
any division of the forces until they had passed the river Esk. There the army separated; and
the Duke of Perth commanding one column of the army took the eastern line to Scotland, while
Charles marched to Annan in Dumfrieshire.

The siege of Stirling is the next event of note in which we find the Duke of Perth engaged.
He here acted again as Lieutenant-General, and commanded the siege. Here, too, the valour and
fidelity of two other members of his family were again proved. Lord John Drummond, who had
landed in Scotland while the Jacobites were at Derby, with the French brigade, was slightly
wounded in the battle of Falkirk. He had the honour of being near the Prince in the centre
of the battle with his grenadiers; and it was on his artillery and engineers that the Chevalier
chiefly depended for success in reducing Stirling. Lord Strathallan had also assembled his
men, and joined the army.

While the Prince's army were flushed with the victory of Falkirk, the alternative of again
marching to London, or of continuing the siege of Stirling, was discussed. The last-mentioned
plan was unhappily adopted; and the Duke of Perth called upon General Blakeney to surrender.
The answer was, that the General had always hitherto been regarded as a man of honour, and
that he would always behave himself as such, and would hold out the place as long as it was
tenable. Upon this, fresh works were erected; and Monsieur Mirabel, the chief engineer, gave
it as his opinion that the castle would be reduced in a few days. The unfortunate result of
that ill-advised siege, and the consequent retreat of the Prince from Stirling, have been,
with every appearance of reason, as much blamed as the retreat from Derby. It was a fatal resolution,
and one which was not adopted by the Prince without sincere reluctance, and not until after
a strong representation, signed at Falkirk by Lord George Murray and by all the Clans, begging
that his Royal Highness would consent to retreat, had been presented to him. The great desertion
that had taken place since the battle was adduced as a reason for this movement; and the siege
of Stirling, it was also urged, must necessarily be raised, on account of the inclemency of
the weather, which the soldiers could hardly bear in their trenches, and the impaired state
of the artillery.[254]

The winter was passed in a plan of operations, for which the generalship of Prince Charles,
or rather the able judgment of Lord George Murray, has been eulogized. Making the neighbourhood
of Inverness the centre, from which he could direct all the operations of his various generals,
the Prince employed his army of eight thousand men extensively and usefully. The siege of Fort
William was carried on by Brigadier Stapleton; Lord George Murray had invested Blair Castle;
Lord John Drummond was making head against General Bland; the Duke of Perth was in pursuit
of Lord Loudon. This portion of the operations was attended with so much difficulty and danger,
that Charles must have entertained a high opinion of him to whom it was entrusted.

Lord Cromartie had been already sent to disperse, if possible, Lord Loudon's little army; but
that skilful and estimable nobleman had successfully eluded his adversary, who found it impossible
either to entice him into an action, or to force him out of the country. Lord Loudon had taken
up his quarters at Dornoch, on the frith which divides Rosshire from Sutherland. Here he was
secure, as Lord Cromartie had no boats. It was therefore deemed necessary to have two detachments;
one to guard the passage of the frith, the other to go by the head of it. This was a matter
of some difficulty, for the Prince had at that time hardly as many men at Inverness as were
necessary to guard his person. It was, however, essential to attack Lord Loudon, whose army
cut off all communication with Caithness, whence the Prince expected provisions and men. In
this dilemma an expedient had been thought of some time previously, and preparations had been
made for it; but the execution was extremely dangerous. Mr. Maxwell gives the following account
of it:[255]

"All the fishing-boats that could be got on the coast of Moray had been brought to Findhorn;
the difficulty was, to cross the frith of Moray unperceived by the English ships that were
continually cruizing there: if the design was suspected, it could not succeed. Two or three
North-country gentlemen, that were employed in this affair, had conducted it with great secrecy
and expedition. All was ready at Findhorn when the orders came from Inverness to make the attempt,
and the enemy had no suspicion. Moir of Stoneywood set out with this little fleet in the beginning
of the night, got safe across the frith of Moray, and arrived in the morning at Tain, where
the Duke of Perth, whom the Prince had sent to command this expedition, was ready. The men
were embarked with great despatch, and by means of a thick fog, which happened very opportunely,
got over to Sutherland without being perceived. The Duke of Perth marched directly to the enemies'
quarters, and, after some disappointments, owing to his being the dupe of his good nature and
politeness, succeeded in dispersing Lord Loudon's army: and this era, in the opinion of Mr.
Maxwell, is the finest part of the Prince's expedition." Henceforth, all was dismay and disaster.

The affairs of Charles Edward had now begun visibly to decline, for money, the sinews of the
war, was not to be had; and the military chest, plundered, as it has been stated, by villains
who robbed the Prince by false musters, was exhausted. The hopes of the Chevalier were in the
lowest state, when the intelligence reached Inverness that the Duke of Cumberland was advancing
from Aberdeen to attack his forces. Upon receiving these tidings, the Prince sent messengers
far and wide to call in his scattered troops, expecting that he should be strong enough to
venture a battle.

The Duke of Perth, who at that time commanded all the troops that were to the eastward of Inverness,
was planted near the river Spey. When the enemy approached, he retired to Elgin. On the same
day, the twelfth of April 1746, the Duke of Cumberland passed the Spey, and encamped within
three or four miles of Elgin.

This retreat of the Duke of Perth has been severely condemned. It appears, however, that he,
and Lord John Drummond who was with him, could not muster two thousand five hundred men. The
river, which was very low, was fordable in many places; so much so, that the enemy might march
a battalion in front. The Duke had no artillery, whilst the enemy had a very good train. There
was no possibility of sending reinforcements from Inverness; above all, says Mr. Maxwell, "nothing
was to be risked that might dishearten the common soldiers on the eve of a general and decisive
action."

But the same candid and experienced soldier acknowledges that the Duke of Perth remained too
long at Nairn, whither he retired, and where the Duke of Cumberland advanced within a mile
of the town, and followed the retiring army of Perth for a mile or two, though to no purpose,
the foot-soldiers being protected by Fitzjames's Horse. The delay at Nairn has, it is true,
been excused, on the grounds of a command from Prince Charles to the Duke of Perth and his
brother not to retire too hastily before Cumberland, but to keep as near to him as was consistent
with their safety. This message "put them on their mettle, and well-nigh occasioned their destruction."
The Duke of Perth continued to retreat, until he halted somewhat short of Culloden, where the
Prince arrived that evening, and took up his quarters at Culloden House.[256]

The following day was the fifteenth of April, the anniversary of that on which the Duke of
Cumberland, the disgrace of his family, the hard-hearted conqueror of a brave and humane foe,
first saw the light. It was expected that he would choose his birth-day for the combat, but
the fatal engagement of Culloden was deferred until the following morning.

The battle of Culloden was prefaced by a general sentiment of despair among those who shared
its perils.

"This," says Mr. Maxwell,[257] referring to the morning of the engagement, "was the first time
the Prince, ever thought his affairs desperate. He saw his little army much reduced, and half-dead
with hunger and fatigue, and found himself under a necessity of fighting in that miserable
condition, for he would not think of a retreat; which he had never yielded to but with the
greatest reluctance, and which, on this occasion, he imagined would disperse the few men he
had, and put an inglorious end to his expedition. He resolved to wait for the enemy, be the
event what it would; and he did not wait long, for he had been but a few hours at Culloden,
when his scouts brought him word that the enemy was within two miles, advancing towards the
moor, where the Prince had drawn up his army the day before. The men were scattered among the
woods of Culloden, the greatest part fast asleep. As soon as the alarm was given, the officers
ran about on all sides to rouse them, if I may use the expression, among the bushes; and some
went to Inverness, to bring back such of the men as hunger had driven there. Notwithstanding
the pains taken by the officers to assemble the men, there were several hundreds absent from
the battle, though within a mile of it: some were quite exhausted, and not able to crawl; and
others asleep in coverts that had not been beat up. However, in less time than one could have
imagined, the best part of the army was assembled, and formed on the moor, where it had been
drawn up the day before. Every corps knew its post, and went straight without waiting for fresh
orders; the order of battle was as follows: the army was drawn up in two lines; the first was
composed of the Atholl brigade, which had the right; the Camerons, Stuarts of Appin, Frazers,
Macintoshes, Farquharsons, Chisholms, Perths, Roy Stuart's regiment, and the Macdonalds, who
had the left."

The Highlanders, though faint with fatigue and want of sleep, forgot all their hardships at
the approach of an enemy; and, as a shout was sent up from the Duke of Cumberland's army, they
returned it with the spirit of a valiant and undaunted people.

The order of battle was as follows: the right wing was commanded by Lord George Murray, and
the left by the Duke of Perth; the centre of the first line by Lord John Drummond, and the
centre of the second by Brigadier Stapleton. There were five cannon on the right, and four
on the left of the army.[258]

The Duke of Perth had therefore, from his important command, the privilege of spending the
short period of existence, which, as the event proved, Providence allotted to him, in the service
of a Prince whom he loved; whilst he had the good fortune to escape that responsibility which
fell to the lot of his rival, Lord George Murray. The influence which that nobleman had acquired
over the council of war had enabled him far to eclipse the Duke of Perth in importance; but
it was the fate of Lord George Murray to pay a heavy penalty for that distinction.

But not only did the amiable and high-minded Duke of Perth calmly surrender to one, who was
esteemed a better leader than himself, the post of honour; but he endeavoured to reconcile
to the indignity put upon them the fierce spirit of the Macdonalds, who were obliged to cede
their accustomed place on the right to the Atholl men. "If," said the Duke, "you fight with
your usual bravery, you will make the left wing a right wing; in which case I shall ever afterwards
assume the honourable surname of Macdonald."[259] The Duke's standard was borne, on this occasion,
by the Laird of Comrie, whose descendant still shows the claymore which his ancestors brandished;
whilst the Duke exclaimed aloud, "Claymore!"[260] Happy would it have been for Charles, had
a similar spirit purified the motives of all those on whom he was fated to depend!

The battle was soon ended! Half-an-hour of slaughter and despair terminated the final struggle
of the Stuarts for the throne of Britain! During that fearful though brief[261] space, one
thousand of the Jacobites were killed; no quarter being given on either side. Exhausted by
fatigue and want of food, the brave Highlanders fell thick as autumn leaves upon the blood-stained
moor, near Culloden House. About two hundred only on the King's side perished in the encounter.
During the whole battle, taking into account the previous cannonading, the Jacobites lost,
as the prisoners afterwards stated, four thousand men. But it was not until after the fury
of the fight ceased, that the true horrors of war really began. These may be said to consist,
not in the ardour of a strife in which the passions, madly engaged, have no check, nor stay;
but in the cold, vindictive, brutal, and remorseless after-deeds, which stamp for ever the
miseries of a conflict upon the broken hearts of the survivors.

"Exceeding few," says Mr. Maxwell, "were made prisoners in the field of battle, which was such
a scene of horror and inhumanity as is rarely to be met with among civilized nations. Every
circumstance concurs to heighten the enormity of the cruelties exercised on this occasion;
the shortness of the action, the cheapness of the victory, and, above all, the moderation the
Prince had shown during his prosperity,--the leniency, and even tenderness, with which he had
always treated his enemies. But that which was done on the field of Culloden was but a prelude
to a long series of massacres committed in cold blood, which I shall have occasion to mention
afterwards."[262]

The Chevalier, leaving that part of the field upon which bodies in layers of three or four
deep were lying, rode along the moor in the direction of Fort Augustus, where he passed the
river of Nairn. He halted, and held a conference with Sir Thomas Sheridan, Sullivan, and Hay;
and, having taken his resolution, he sent young Sullivan to the gentlemen who had followed
him, and who were now pretty numerous. Sheridan at first pretended to conduct them to the place
where the Prince was to re-assemble his army; but, having ridden half a mile towards Ruthven,
he there stopped, and dismissed them all in the Prince's name, telling them it was the Prince's
"pleasure that they should shift for themselves."

This abrupt and impolitic, not to say ungracious and unsoldier-like proceeding, has been justified
by the necessity of the moment. There were no magazines in the Highlands, in which an unusual
scarcity prevailed. The Lowlanders, more especially, must have starved in a country that had
not the means of supporting its own inhabitants, and of which they knew neither the roads nor
the language. It is, however, but too probable, that various suspicions, which were afterwards
dispelled, of the fidelity of the Scots, induced Charles to throw himself into the hands of
his Irish attendants at this critical juncture.[263]

The Duke of Perth, with his brother Lord John Drummond, and Lord George Murray, with the Atholl
men, and almost all the Low-country men who had been in the Jacobite army, retired to Ruthven,
where they remained a short time with two or three thousand men, but without a day's subsistence.
The leaders of this band finding it impossible to keep the men together, and receiving no orders
from the Prince, came to a resolution of separating. They took a melancholy farewell of each
other, brothers and companions in arms, and many of them united by ties of relationship. The
chieftains dispersed to seek places of shelter, to escape the pursuit of Cumberland's "bloodhounds:"
the men went to their homes.

Such is the statement of Maxwell of Kirkconnel, relative to the Duke of Perth: according to
another account, the course which the Duke pursued was the following:--

He is said to have been wounded in the back and hands in the battle, and to have fled with
great precipitancy from the field of battle. He obtained, it is supposed, that shelter which,
even under the most dangerous and disastrous circumstances, was rarely refused to the poor
Jacobites. The exact spot of his retreat has never been ascertained; yet persons living have
been heard to say, that in the houses of their grandfathers or ancestors, the Duke of Perth
took refuge, until the vigilance of pursuit had abated. The obscurity into which this and other
subjects connected with 1745 have fallen, may be accounted for by the apathy which, at the
beginning of the present century existed concerning all subjects connected with the ill-starred
enterprise of the Stuarts; and the loss of much interesting information, which the curiosity
of modern times would endeavour in vain to resuscitate, has been the result.

Tradition, however, often a sure guide, and seldom, at all events, wholly erroneous, has preserved
some trace of the unfortunate wanderer's adventures after all was at an end. As it might be
expected, and as common report in the neighbourhood of Drummond Castle states, the Duke returned
to the protection of his own people. To them, and to his stately home, he was fondly attached,
notwithstanding his foreign education. On first going from Perth to join the insurrection,
as he lost sight of his Castle, he turned round, and as if anticipating all the consequences
of that step, exclaimed, 'O! my bonny Drummond Castle, and my bonny lands!'

The personal appearance of the Duke was well known over all the country, for he was universally
beloved, and was in the practice of riding at the head of his tenantry and friends, called
in that neighbourhood 'his guards,' to Michaelmas Market at Crieff, the greatest fair in those
parts; where thousands assembled to buy and sell cattle and horses. He was therefore afterwards
easily recognised, although in disguise.

"Sometime after the battle of Culloden," as the same authority relates,[264] "the Duke returned
to Drummond Castle, where his mother usually resided; and lived there very privately, skulking
about the woods and in disguise; he was repeatedly seen in a female dress, barefooted, and
bare-headed. Once a party came to search the castle unexpectedly; he instantly got into a wall
press or closet, or recess of some sort, where a woman shut him in, and standing before it,
remained motionless till they left that room, to carry on the search, when he got out at a
window and gained the retreats in the woods. After he had withdrawn from Scotland, and settled
in the north of England, he occasionally visited Strathearn."

In one of these visits he called, disguised as an old travelling soldier, at Drummond Castle,
and desired the housekeeper to show him the rooms of the mansion. She was humming the song
of "the Duke of Perth's Lament," and having learnt the name of the song he desired her to sing
it no more. When he got into his own apartment he cried out, "This is the Duke's own room;"
when, lifting his arm to lay hold of one of the pictures, she observed he was in tears, and
perceived better dress under his disguise, which convinced her he was the Duke himself.[265]

For some time the Duke continued these wanderings, stopping now and then to gaze upon his Castle,
the sight of which affected him to tears. "It was now," says the writer of the case of Thomas
Drummond, "that for obvious reasons, to elude discovery, the report of his death on shipboard
or otherwise, would be propagated by his friends and encouraged by himself." It is stated upon
the same evidence, that instead of sailing to France, as it has been generally believed, the
Duke fled to England; that he was conveyed on board a ship and landed at South Shields, a few
miles only distant from Biddick, a small sequestered village, chiefly inhabited at that time
by banditti, who set all authority at defiance. Biddick is situated near the river Wear, a
few miles from Sunderland; it was, at that time, both from situation and from the character
of its inhabitants, a likely place for one flying from the power of the law to find a shelter;
it was, indeed, a common retreat for the unfortunate and the criminal. That the Duke of Perth
actually took refuge there for some time, is an assertion which has gained credence from the
following reasons:--

In the first place: "In the History, Directory, and Gazette of the counties of Northumberland
and Durham, and the town and counties of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, by William Parson and William
White, two volumes, 1827-28, the following passage occurs relating to Biddick, in the parish
of Houghton-le-Spring:--

"It was here that the unfortunate James Drummond, commonly called Duke of Perth, took sanctuary
after the rebellion of 1745-6, under the protection of Nicholas Lambton, Esq., of South Biddick,
where he died, and was buried at Pain-Shaw."

In the case of Thomas Drummond, (on whom I shall hereafter make some comments,) letters stated
to be from Lord John Drummond are referred to, and quoted in part. These are said to have been
addressed by Lord John Drummond from Boulogne, to the Duke at Houghton-le-Spring. The passage
quoted runs thus: "I think you had better come to France, and you would be out of danger; as
I find you are living in obscurity at Houghton-le-Spring. I doubt that it is a dangerous place;
you say it is reported that you died on your passage. I hope and trust you will still live
in obscurity." These expressions, which it must be owned have very much the air of being coined
for the purpose, would certainly, were the supposed letters authenticated, establish the fact
of the Duke's retreat to Houghton-le-Spring.

Upon the doubtful nature of the intelligence, which was alone gleaned by the friends and relatives
of the Duke of Perth, a superstructure of romance, as it certainly appears to be, was reared.
The Duke was never, as it was believed, married; and in 1784 the estates were restored to his
kinsman, the Honourable John Drummond, who was created Baron Perth, and who died in 1800, leaving
the estates, with the honour of chieftainship, to his daughter Clementina Sarah, now Lady Willoughby
D'Eresby.

In 1831, a claimant to the honours and estates appeared in Thomas Drummond, who declared himself
to be the grandson of James Duke of Perth; according to his account, the Duke of Perth on reaching
Biddick, took up his abode with a man named John Armstrong, a collier or pitman. The occupation
of this man was, it was stated, an inducement for this choice on the part of the Duke, as in
case of pursuit, the abyss at a coal-pit might afford a secure retreat; since no one would
dare to enter a coal-pit without the permission of the owners.

The Duke, it is stated in the case of Thomas Drummond, commenced soon after his arrival at
Biddick, the employment of a shoemaker, in order to lull suspicion; he lost money by his endeavours,
and soon relinquished his new trade. He is said to have become, in the course of time, much
attached to the daughter of his host, John Armstrong, and to have married her at the parish
church of Houghton-le-Spring, in 1749. He resided with his wife's family until his first child
was born, when he removed to the boat-house, a dwelling with the use and privilege of a ferry-boat
attached to it, and belonging to Nicholas Lambton, Esq. of Biddick; who, knowing the rank and
misfortunes of the Duke, bestowed it on him from compassion. Here he lived, and with the aid
of a small huckster's shop on the premises, supported a family, which in process of time, amounted
to six or seven children; two of whom, Mrs. Atkinson and Mrs. Peters, aged women, but still
in full possession of their intellect, have given their testimony to the identity of this shoemaker
and huckster to the Duke of Perth.[266]

The papers, letters, documents and writings, a favourite diamond ring, and a ducal patent of
nobility, were, however, "all lost in the great flood of the river Wear in 1771;" and the Duke
is said to have deeply lamented this misfortune. It is not, however, very likely that he would
have carried his ducal patent with him in his flight; and had he afterwards sent for it from
Drummond Castle, some of his family must have been apprised of his existence.

It is stated, however, but only on hearsay, that thirteen years after the year 1745, the Duke
visited his forfeited Castle of Drummond, disguised as an old beggar, and dressed up in a light
coloured wig. This rumour rests chiefly upon the evidence of the Rev. Dr. Malcolm, LLD., who,
in 1808, published a Genealogical Memoir of the ancient and noble House of Drummond; and who
declared, on being applied to by the family of Thomas Drummond, that he had been told by Mrs.
Sommers, the daughter-in-law of Patrick Drummond, Esq., of Drummondernock, the intimate friend
of the Duke of Perth, that the Duke survived the events of the battle of Culloden a long time,
and years afterwards, visited his estates, and was recognised by many of his "trusty tenants."[267]
A similar report was, at the same time, very prevalent at Strathearn; and it has been positively
affirmed, that a visit was received by Mr. Græme, at Garnock, from the Duke of Perth, long
after he was believed to be dead. At this time, it is indeed wholly impossible to verify, or
even satisfactorily to refute such statements; but the existence of a report in Scotland, that
the Duke did not perish at sea, may be received as an undoubted fact.[268] In 1831, when the
case of Thomas Drummond was first agitated, Mrs. Atkinson and Mrs. Elizabeth Peters, the supposed
daughters of James Duke of Perth, were both alive, and on their evidence much of the stability
of the case depended. The claimant, Thomas Drummond, who is stated to have been the eldest
son of James, son of James Duke of Perth, was born in 1792, and was living in 1831 at Houghton-le-Spring,
in the occupation of a pitman. Much doubt is thrown upon the whole of the case, which was not
followed up, by the length of time which elapsed before any claim was made on the part of this
supposed descendant of the Duke of Perth. The act for the restoration of the forfeited estates
was not passed, indeed, until two years after the death (as it is stated) of the Duke of Perth,
that is, in 1784; yet one would suppose that he would have carefully instructed his son in
the proper manner to assert his rights in case of such an event. That son lived to a mature
age, married and died, yet made no effort to recover what were said to be his just rights.[269]

Such is the statement of those who seek to establish the belief that the Duke of Perth lived
to a good old age, married, had children, and left heirs to his title and estates. On the other
hand, it is certain that it was generally considered certain, at the time of the insurrection,
that the Duke died on his voyage to France; and it was even alluded to by one of the counsel
at the trials of Lord Kilmarnock and Lord Balmerino in August 1746, when the name of the Duke
of Perth being mentioned, "who," said the Speaker, "I see by the papers, is dead." But it is
certainly remarkable, that neither Maxwell of Kirkconnel, nor Lord Elcho, the one in his narrative
which has been printed, the other in his manuscript memoir, mention the death of the Duke of
Perth on the voyage, which, as they both state, they shared with him. So important and interesting
a circumstance would not, one may suppose, have occurred without their alluding to it. "All
the gentlemen," Lord Elcho relates, "who crossed to Nantes, proceeded to Paris after their
disembarkation;"[270] but he enters into no further particulars of their destination. His silence,
and that of Maxwell of Kirkconnel, regarding the Duke of Perth's death, seems, if it really
took place, to have been inexplicable.

All doubt, but that the story of the unfortunate Duke's death was really true, appears however
to be set at rest by the epitaph which some friendly or kindred hand has inscribed on a tomb
in the chapel of the English Nuns at Antwerp, commemorating the virtues and the fate of the
Duke, and of his brother Lord John Drummond. This monumental tribute would hardly have been
inscribed without some degree of certainty that the remains of the Duke were indeed interred there.

                                 M. S.[271]

          Fratrum Illustriss, Jac. et Joan. Ducum de Perth,
        Antiquiss. Nobiliss. Familiæ de Drummond apud Scotos,
                              Principum.
               Jacobus, ad studia humaniora proclivior,
                          Literis excultus,
             Artium bonarum et liberalium fautor eximius;
                        In commune consulens,
                   Semper in otio civis dignissimus.
          Mirâ morum suavitate, et animi fortitudine ornatus,
           Intaminatâ fide splendebat humani generis amicus.
                   In pace clarus, in bello clarior;
                  Appulso enim Carolo P. in Scotiam,
             Gladio in causâ gentis Stuartorum rearrepto,
                      Veterorum curâ posthabitâ,
                  Gloriæ et virtuti unice prospiciens,
                 Alacri vultu labores belli spectabat;
                    Pericula omnia minima ducebat:
       In prælio strenuus, in victoriâ clemens, heros egregius.
                   Copiis Caroli tandem dissipatis,
                  Patriâ, amicis, re domi amplissimâ,
       Cunctis præter mentem recti consciam, fortiter desertis,
               In Galliam tendens, solum natale fugit.
     Verum assiduis laboribus et patriæ malis gravibus oppressus,
                            In mari magno,
           Die natale revertente, ob. 13 Maii, 1746; æt. 33.
        Et reliquiæ, ventis adversis, terrâ sacratâ interclusæ,
                          In undis sepultæ.
               Joannes, ingenio felici martiali imbutus,
          A primâ adolescentiâ, militiæ artibus operam dedit.
                 Fortis, intrepidus, propositi tenax,
Mansuetudine generosâ, et facilitate morum, militis asperitate lenitâ.
            Legioni Scoticæ regali, ab ipsomet conscriptæ,
               A Rege Christianiss. Lud. XV. præpositus.
                 Flagrante bello civili in Britanniâ,
                        Auxilis Gallorum duxit;
              Et post conflictum infaustum Cullodinensem,
                  In eadem navi cum fratre profugus.
       In Flandriâ, sub Imperatore Com. de Saxe, multùm meruit:
                      Subjectis semper præsidium,
       Belli calamitatum (agnoscite Britanni!) insigne levamen.
            Ad summos Martis dignitates gradatim assurgens,
                     Gloriæ nobilis metæ appetens,
              In medio cursu, improvisa lethi vi raptus,
                    28 Septemb. A.D. 1747, Æt. 33.
               In Angl. monach. Sacello Antwerpiæ jacet.

The preceding narrative is given to the reader without any further comment, except upon the
general improbability of the story. It might not appear impossible that the Duke may have taken
refuge in the then wild county of Durham for a time, but that two credible historians, Maxwell
of Kirkconnel, and Lord Elcho, assert positively that he sailed for Nantes in a vessel which
went by the north-west coast of Ireland; Lord Elcho and Maxwell being themselves on board,
seems decisive of the entire failure of the case before quoted. It seems also wholly incredible,
that the Duke of Perth, whose rank was still acknowledged in France, and whose early education
in that country must have familiarised him with its habits, should have remained contentedly
during the whole of his life, associating with persons of the lowest grade, in an obscure village
in Durham.

At the time of the Duke of Perth's death in 1747, one brother, Lord John Drummond, was living.
This brave man, whose virtues and whose fate are recorded in the epitaph, survived his amiable
and accomplished brother only one year, and died suddenly of a fever, after serving under Marshal
Saxe at the siege of Bergen-op-Zoom. His services in the insurrection of 1745 were considerable;
like his brother, he escaped to France after the contest was concluded. He died unmarried;
and two sisters, the Lady Mary, and the Lady Henrietta Drummond, died also unmarried. The mother
of James Duke of Perth long survived him, living until 1773. It is said in the case of Thomas
Drummond, that she never forgave her son for what she considered his lukewarmness in the cause
of the Stuarts, and refused to have any intercourse with him after the failure of the rebellion;
but those who thus write, must have formed a very erroneous conception of the Duke's conduct:
if he might not escape such a charge, who could deserve the praise of zeal, sincerity, and
disinterestedness?

The duchess was one of the most strenuous supporters of the Stuarts, and suffered for her loyalty
to them by an imprisonment in Edinburgh Castle. She was committed to prison on the eleventh
of February, 1746, and liberated on bail on the seventeenth.

On the forfeiture of the Drummond estates she retired to Stobhall, where she remained until
her death, at the advanced age of ninety. She was considered a woman of great spirit, energy,
and ability, and is supposed to have influenced her son in his political opinions and actions.

Some idea may be formed of the painful circumstances which follow the forfeiture of estates
from the following passage, extracted from the introduction to the letters of James Earl of
Perth, Chancellor of Scotland in the time of James the Second, and lately printed for the Camden
Society.[272]

"When a considerable portion of the Drummond estates were restored to the heir (no poor boon,
though dilapidated, lopped, and impoverished,) he found upon them four settlements of cottages,
in which the soldiery had been located after the battle of Culloden, to keep down the rebels.
There were thirty near Drummond Castle, another division at Cullander, a third at Balibeg,
and a fourth at Stobhall. Demolition might satisfy the abhorrence of the latter three, but
what could reconcile him to the outrage under his very eyes, as he looked from his chamber
or castle terrace? It was intolerable, and that every trace might be obliterated, he caused
an embankment to be made, and carried a lake-like sheet of water over the very chimney tops
of the military dwellings. There is now the beautiful lake, gleaming with fish, and haunted
by the wild birds of the Highlands; and we believe the deepest diver of them all, could not
observe one stone upon another of the cabins which held the ruthless military oppressors left
by the Duke of Cumberland a century ago."

The usual accounts of the Duke's movements after the battle of Culloden, state, however, that
about a month subsequent to that event, when the fugitive Charles Stuart, in the commencement
of his wanderings, landed by accident upon the little isle of Errifort, on the east side of
Lewis, he saw, from the summit of a hill which he had climbed, two frigates sailing northwards.
The Chevalier in vain endeavoured to persuade the boatmen who had brought him from Lewis, to
go out and reconnoitre these ships. His companions judged these vessels to be English; the
Prince alone guessed them to be French. He was right. They were two frigates from Nantes, which
had been sent with money, arms, and ammunition to succour Charles, and were now returning to
France. On board one of them was the Duke of Perth, Lord Elcho, Lord John Drummond, old Lochiel,
Sir Thomas Sheridan and his nephew Mr. Hay, Maxwell of Kirkconnel, and Mr. Lockhart of Carnwath,
and several Low-country gentlemen, who had been wandering about in these remote parts when
the frigates were setting out on their return,[273] and finding that the Prince was gone, and
that nothing was to be done for his service, had determined to escape. On the tenth of June
these frigates reached Nantes: Lord Elcho affirms that "all arrived safe at Nantes;" one only
is said never to have gained that shore. Worn out by fatigues too severe, and, perhaps, the
progress of disease being aided by sorrow, the Duke of Perth is generally stated to have died
on ship-board on his passage. His malady is understood to have been consumption.

Another celebrated member of this distinguished family, Lord Strathallan, was not spared to
witness the total ruin of all his hopes. He fell at the battle of Culloden. The impression
among his descendants is, that, seeing the defeat certain, he rushed into the thick of the
battle, determined to perish. In 1746 Lord Strathallan's name was included in the Bill of Attainder
then passed; but, in 1824, one of the most graceful acts of George the Fourth, whose sentiments
of compassion for the Stuarts and their adherents do credit to his memory, was the restoration
of the present Viscount Strathallan to the peerage by the title of the sixth Viscount.

It is with regret that we take leave, amid the discordant scenes of an historical narrative,
of one whose high purposes and blameless career are the best tribute to virtue, the noblest
ornament of the party which he espoused. Modest, yet courageous; moderate, though in the ardour
of youth; devout, without bigotry; and capable of every self-sacrifice for the good of others,
on the memory of the young Duke of Perth not a shadow rests to attract the attention of the
harsh to defects of intention, unjustly attributed to the leader of the Jacobite insurrection.

FOOTNOTES:

[207] Genealogy of the Most Noble and Ancient House of Drummond. By a Freind to Vertue and
the Family.--Unpublished.

[208] The office of Thane or Seneschal was, to be the Giusticiare or guardian of that country;
to lead the men up to the war, according to the roll or list made out; and to be collector
for the Athbane of the kingdom for the King's rents in that district. The Athbane was the highest
officer in the kingdom--Chief Minister, Treasurer, Steward. The Thanes were next to the Athbanes,
and were the first that King Malcolm advanced to the new title of Earls.--See Lord Strathallan's
Genealogy of the House of Drummond.

[209] Genealogy of the House of Drummond, 139.

[210] Amongst his other literary efforts, Drummond of Hawthornden left a MS "Historie of the
Family of Perth."

[211] Lady Willoughby D'Eresby is heiress to the estate of Perth, and representative in the
female line of the Earldom of Perth in Scotland and of the Dukedom in France. At the same time
that the Dukedom of Perth was created, the last Earl's brother was created Duke de Melfort.
His descendants are, therefore, the male representatives of the Earldom of Perth, and George
Drummond Perth de Melfort in France is now claiming the title. (Letter from Viscount Strathallan,
to whose courtesy I am indebted for this information.)

[212] "Reducing."--Editor

[213] Memoirs of Sir Ewen Cameron of Lochiell.

[214] The title of Duke was afterwards assumed by the young chief of the House of Drummond,
and was given to him by the Jacobites generally; but, in consequence of his father's attainder,
and the forfeiture of his title, he was, in the eye of the law, simply a commoner. Hence he
is described by Home as "James Drummond, commonly called Duke of Perth, his father having been
so created by James the Second at St. Germains." The right of the Duke to this dignity was
at that time, and it still is, recognised in France. Without entering into the merits of the
question of right, and to prevent confusion, it is therefore expedient to designate this Jacobite
nobleman by the name usually assigned to him in his own time.

[215] Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 296.

[216] Wood's Peerage.

[217] Curious Collection of Scottish Songs; Aberdeen, 1821.

[218] Henderson, History of the Rebellion of '45, p. 19. 1753

[219] Memoirs of Lochiell, p. 30.

[220] History of the Rebellion, p. 35.

[221] Lord Elcho's Narrative, MS.

[222] See the History of the Rebellion, by Rae; and the Cochrane Correspondence.

[223] Maculloch's Highlands.

[224] Forbes's Jacobite Memoirs, p. 17.

[225] Henderson, p. 30.

[226] Henderson, p. 30.

[227] Chambers' History of the Rebellion; Edit. for the People; p. 19.

[228] "History of the Present Rebellion in Scotland, 1745. From the relation of Mr. James Macpherson,
who was first in the service of the Rebels."

In contradiction to this statement, to which Macpherson adds, that the Chevalier attended Mass
daily, the testimony of one of the daily papers (the Caledonian Mercury) may be given, as inserted
by Mr. Chambers in his very interesting History of the Rebellion of 1745. The Prince visited
an Episcopal chapel; the name of the clergyman, Armstrong, and the text, Isaiah xiv. 12, are
specified. It was the first Protestant place of worship that the Prince had ever attended.
Hist. of the Rebellion, p. 21.

[229] History of the Present Rebellion, p. 19.--It is remarkable that two Histories of the
two rebellions were composed by men who had changed sides. That of 1715 by Patten, who was
rewarded for his disclosures, as King's evidence, by a pension. What reward was bestowed on
Mr. James Macpherson does not yet appear.

[230] History of the Present Rebellion, p. 26.

[231] Notes and Observations taken from MSS. in the possession of A. Macdonald, Esq., Register
Office, Edinburgh.

[232] Lord Elcho's MS.

[233] In Exeter House, Derby, there is a portrait of Prince Charles, painted by Wright of Derby,
in which the eyes are hazel. That in the Earl of Newburgh's possession, at Hassop, has blue eyes.

[234] Henderson, p. 51. Home, p. 100.

[235] Home, 101. Alexander Henderson.

[236] Lord Elcho's Narrative, MS.

[237] Henderson, p. 84.

[238] Henderson, p. 88.

[239] Henderson differs in this account from Home. "Charles," says the latter, "remained on
the field of battle till mid-day, giving orders for the relief of the wounded of both armies,
for the disposal of his prisoners, and preserving, both from temper and from judgment, every
appearance of moderation and humanity," p. 122.

[240] Lord Elcho's MS.

[241] Maxwell of Kirkconnel's Narrative, p. 55.

[242] Maxwell of Kirkconnel's Narrative, p. 57.

[243] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 59.

[244] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 46.

[245] Maxwell of Kirkconnel's Narrative, p. 48.

[246] Maxwell, p. 65.

[247] History of the Rebellion of 1745 and 1746. Extracted from the Scots' Magazine, p. 99.

[248] Maxwell's Narrative, p. 74.

[249] Maxwell, p. 76.

[250] Jacobite Memoirs.

[251] Lord Mahon is decidedly of this opinion. See Vol. iv. Hist. of England, respecting the
Jacobites.

[252] Lord Elcho's MS.

[253] Maxwell, p. 80.

[254] Maxwell, p. 112.

[255] P. 129.

[256] Maxwell, p. 140.

[257] P. 147.

[258] Chambers.

[259] Lord Elcho's Narrative.

[260] The estate of Comrie is now in the possession of Sir David Dundas, and the descendant
of its former owner, and the Duke's standard-bearer is reduced to be the landlord of the village
inn. See Letters of James Duke of Perth, Chancellor of Scotland. Printed for the Camden Society,
and edited by Wm. Jerdan, Esq.

[261] The battle, according to the newspapers of the day, lasted about half an hour.

[262] Maxwell, p. 154.

[263] See Lord Elcho's MS. Narrative; which, however, since it is written in a bitter spirit,
and varies in many details and in most opinions from Maxwell's, I am not disposed wholly to trust.

[264] The traditionary accounts have been collected, in the case of Thos. Drummond, a claimant
of the honours and estates of the Earldom of Perth. Newcastle upon Tyne, 1831. I do not vouch
for the truth of these anecdotes, but they have an air of probability.

[265] Case of Thomas Drummond, p. 18.

[266] See case of Thomas Drummond, p. 26.

[267] Case, p. 34. Dr. Malcolm had in his book made a different statement; but had contemplated
re-publishing his work, with corrections, among which the existence (after 1747) of James Drummond,
was to be asserted.

[268] For this information, and also for a copy of the case of Thomas Drummond, I am indebted
to the kindness of W. E. Aytoun, Esq.

[269] In 1816, another appeal, and a fresh claim to the Drummond estates, and to the Earldom
of Perth, were brought forward by the descendant of John Drummond, the great-uncle of James,
Duke of Perth. The said John Drummond was raised to the dignity of the English peerage in 1685,
by James the Second, by the title of Viscount Melfort; in 1686 he was raised to the dignity
of Earl of Melfort; and afterwards, following the monarch to St. Germains, was created Duke
of Melfort.

The great-grandson of the Duke of Melfort was a Roman Catholic priest, who officiated some
years back at the chapel in Moorfields; he was living in 1831 in France, at a very advanced age.

The pamphlet in which, in 1816, he asserted his claim, and which was laid before the House
of Lords, was professedly written "by an unfortunate nobleman;" with the appeal of Charles
Edward (Drummond), Duke of Melfort, heir male, and chief representative of the House of Drummond
of Perth, submitted to the United Kingdom of Great Britain, &c., 8vo., London, 1816.

[270] Lord Elcho's MS.

[271] For the copies of these epitaphs I am indebted to Robert Chambers, Esq. This is that
gentleman's account of the inscriptions:--

"The within is a correct copy of the inscription, as entered in Bishop Forbes's MS., vol. 9,
dated on title page, 1761. The entry of inscriptions is immediately subsequent to a copied
letter or memorandum of May, 1764, and antecedent to one of November, 1765.

      "Fama perennis, lauru porrecta, vetat mori
    Principes immaculatis Proavum honoribus dignos.
      Hoc Elogium,
        D.D.D.
          T.D. L.L.D.

"N.B.--The above is engraven, all in capitals, on the tomb at Antwerp, with the coat armorial
of the family on the top of the inscription."

The following is the English translation of the originals in Latin, copied from the papers
of Bishop Forbes:--

                         Sacred to the Memory
                                 of
            the most illustrious brothers, James and John,
                            Dukes of Perth,
                   Chiefs of the House of Drummond,
             a very ancient and noble family in Scotland.
                               James,
     the more disposed of the two to the study of Belles Lettres,
                        excelled in Literature;
                 was eminent as a favourer of the Fine
                           and Liberal arts.
                    Providing for the common good,
             he was always a most worthy citizen in peace.
            Characterized by the sweetness of his manners,
            and distinguished by the strength of his mind,
      He ever shone with unstained faith as a friend of mankind.
             Great in peace, he was still greater in war,
              For when Prince Charles landed in Scotland,
        He drew his sword in the cause of the House of Stuart,
                      Put all other cares aside,
           And uniformly looking forward to glory and worth,
    He ever gazed with a cheerful countenance on the toils of war:
               He was utterly regardless of all danger,
     Without want of energy in battle, he was merciful in victory,
                   Indeed a man of rare occurrence;
        At length when the forces of Charles were wasted away,
        His native land, his friends, and a very ample estate,
 Were all, when weighed in estimation with a mind conscious of right,
                           Bravely deserted:
             Turning his steps towards France, he fled his
                            Native country.
             Oppressed by the troubles of his lot, and the
                   Heavy misfortunes of his country,
                      He died on the great ocean,
       On the 13th of May, in the thirty-third year of his age;
 And his remains, precluded from consecrated ground by adverse winds,
                        Were given to the deep.

                                 John,
        Imbued with a happy turn of mind for military affairs,
         From early youth applied himself to the military art.
                 Brave, intrepid, and firm in purpose,
He was ennobled by gentleness, and softened the asperity of the soldier
                      by the ease of his manners.
              He was placed over the Royal Scotch Legion,
                         Enlisted by himself,
                      By the most Christian King,
                               Louis XV.
              Whilst the Civil War was raging in Britain
                  He led the French Auxiliary Forces,
             And after the unfortunate battle of Culloden,
            Was a fugitive in the same ship as his brother.
              In Flanders, under the General Count Saxe,
                         He served a long time,
              Ever a defence to those under his command,
 A remarkable comforter (Learn, O Britons!) in the calamities of war;
           Gradually rising to the highest dignities of war,
            And seeking to attain the goal of noble glory,
    He was carried away by sudden death in the midst of his course,
                  28th September, A.D. 1747. Aged 33.

[272] Edited by W. Jerdan, Esq., M.R.S.L., 1845.

[273] Maxwell, p. 166.

FLORA MACDONALD.

The character of this celebrated woman, heroic, yet gentle, was formed in the privacy of the
strictest Highland seclusion. She was born in the island of South Uist, in 1720: she was the
daughter of Macdonald of Milton. The Clan of her family was that of Macdonald of Clanranald;
the Chief of which is called in Gaelic, Mack-ire-Allein, and in English, the captain of Clan
Ranald. The estate of this Chief, which is held principally from the Crown, is situated in
Moidart and Arisaig on the continent of Scotland, and in the islands of Uist, Benbecula, and
Rum. In this remote, and, in the circles of London, almost unknown region, Flora Macdonald
was born and educated.

The death of her father, Macdonald of Milton, when she was only a year old, made an important
change in the destiny of the little Highland girl. Her mother married again, and became the
wife of Macdonald of Armadale in Skye. Flora was, therefore, removed from the island of South
Uist to an island which was nearer to the means of acquiring information than her native place.

It was a popular error of the times, more especially among the English Whigs, to regard the
Highlanders of every grade, as an ignorant, barbarous race. So far as the lowest classes were
concerned, this imputation might be well-founded, though certainly not so well as it has much
longer been in the same classes in England. Previously to the reign of George the Third many
of the peasantry could not read, and many could not understand what they read in English. There
were few books in Gaelic, and the defect was only partially supplied by the instruction of
bards and seneachies. But, among the middle and higher classes, education was generally diffused.
The excellent grammar-schools in Inverness, Fortrose, and Dunkeld sent out men well-informed,
excellent classical scholars, and these from among that order which in England is the most
illiterate--the gentlemen-farmers. The Universities gave them even a greater extent of advantages.
When the Hessian troops were quartered in Atholl, the commanding officers, who were accomplished
gentlemen, found a ready communication in Latin at every inn. Upon the Colonel of the Hessian
cavalry halting at Dunkeld, he was addressed by the innkeeper in Latin. This class of innkeepers
has wholly, unhappily, disappeared in the Highlands.[275]

But it was in the island of Skye that classical learning was the most general, and there an
extraordinary degree of intelligence and acquirement prevailed among the landed gentry. "I
believe," observes General Stewart, "it is rather unique for the gentry of a remote corner
to learn Latin, merely to talk to each other; yet so it was in Skye." The acquisition of this
branch of learning was not, indeed, expensive. Latin was taught for two shillings and sixpence
the quarter, and English and writing for one shilling. Indeed it is scarcely more now. The
people seldom quitted their insular homes, except when on service; and, to the silence of their
wild secluded scenes, the romance of poetry and the composition of song gave a relief and a charm.

The education of Flora Macdonald received probably little aid from the classical teacher; but
her mind was formed, not among the rude and uncultured, but among those who appreciated letters;
and the influence of such an advantage in elevating and strengthening the character must be
taken into account in forming a due estimation of her heroic qualities. Thus situated, Flora
passed her life in obscurity, until, at the age of twenty-four, the events which succeeded
the battle of Culloden brought those energies, which had been nurtured in retirement, into
active exertion. Indeed, until about a year before she engaged in that enterprise which has
rendered her name so celebrated, she had never quitted the islands of South Uist and Skye;
she had, at that time, passed about nine months in the family of Macdonald of Largoe in Argyleshire,
and this was the only change of scene, or of sphere, which she had ever witnessed.[276]

Her step-father was an enemy to the cause which, from her earliest years, her heart espoused.
A company of militia had been formed to assist the British Government by Sir Alexander Macdonald,
the chieftain of one division of the clan, and in this regiment Macdonald of Armadale held
a commission as captain, at the time when the Duke of Cumberland was "making inquisition for
blood" throughout the western Highlands. But the prepossessions of Flora were unalienably engaged
in favour of the exiled Stuarts; and they were not, perhaps, the less likely to glow from being
necessarily suppressed. Her disposition, notwithstanding all her subsequent display of courage,
was extremely mild; and her manners corresponded to her temper. Her complexion was fair; and
her figure, though small, well-proportioned. In more advanced life Boswell, who with Dr. Johnson
visited her, characterized her person and deportment as "genteel." There was nothing unfeminine,
either in her form or in her manners, to detract from the charm of her great natural vivacity,
or give a tone of hardness to her strong good sense, calm judgment, and power of decision.
Her voice was sweet and low; the harsher accents of the Scottish tongue were not to be detected
in her discourse; and she spoke, as Bishop Forbes relates, "English (or rather Scots) easily,
and not at all through the Erse tone." In all the varied circumstances of her life, she manifested
a perfect modesty and propriety of behaviour, coupled with that noble simplicity of character
which led her to regard with surprise the tributes which were afterwards paid to her conduct,
and to express her conviction that far too much value was placed upon what she deemed merely
an act of common humanity.

In Skye, the "Isle of Mist" of the poet, she could hear imperfect intelligence of the wanderings
of the Jacobite leaders. She was connected by kindred with some under whose roof the Prince
had taken refuge.

The first movement which the Prince made after taking leave of Lord Lovat at Gortuleg, was
to repair first to Fort Augustus, and then to Invergarie near Fort Augustus. Here he took leave
of those followers who had attended him as he quitted the field of Culloden; and retained only
Mr. O'Sullivan, Captain O'Neil, Captain Alan Macdonald, and one Burke, a servant. It was not
until he had remained a whole day at Fort Augustus that the Prince could be persuaded that
all hopes of his troops rejoining him were at an end. On Friday, the eighteenth of April, he
went to Lochnargaig, where he stayed one night with Dr. Cameron of Glenkearn; and on the following
day he proceeded to Oban, which is situated on a corner of Clanranald's estate. He was, therefore,
under the protection of a kinsman of Flora Macdonald. He pursued his journey on the next day
to the country of Arisaig, and rested at a small village called Glenbeisdale, whence he proceeded
to Boradale, the place at which he had first landed in beginning the enterprise which was now
terminated.

It had been the opinion of Clanranald, one of the Prince's most faithful adherents, that he
ought not to leave the mainland, but to take shelter in different small huts, which should
be built for his accommodation; whilst Clanranald should take a trip to the Isles, and look
out for a vessel to convey the unfortunate wanderer into France. By the influence of Mr. O'Sullivan
this counsel was overruled; and Clanranald, finding that Charles was determined to sail for
Long Island, provided an eight-oared boat, which belonged to Alexander Macdonald of Boradale;
and, having provided it with rowers and other requisites for the voyage, the party set sail
from Lochnanuagh for the Isle of Uist on the twenty-fourth of April. They assumed false names:
the Prince was called Mr. Sinclair; Mr. O'Sullivan was old Sinclair, his father; Captain Alan
Macdonald, a relation of Clanranald, became Mr. Graham.[277] Donald Macleod the pilot, and
about six men, rowers, also accompanied the Prince, but did not change their names; a clergyman
of the Church of Rome attended the party. The design which Charles Edward had formed, was to
reach the Long Island, under which name are comprehended those Western Islands which run in
a straight line from north to south, and are at a short distance from each other. From some
part of the Long Island Charles hoped to procure a vessel in which he could escape to France,
or at any rate to Orkney, and thence to Norway or Sweden. At this time a proclamation, offering
a reward of thirty thousand pounds for his apprehension, had been issued by the British Government.

The Prince set sail on the evening of the twenty-sixth of April, embarking at Boradale, on
the very spot where he had landed, with just sufficient daylight to get clear of Loch Luagh;
for, as the coast had been guarded by English ships ever since his arrival in Scotland, it
was not safe to go beyond the mouth of the Loch in open day. Before the voyage was commenced,
the Prince was warned by his faithful pilot that there would be a storm that night. "I see
it coming!" But Charles Edward, anxious to leave the main land, where parties were dispersed
in pursuit of him, was determined to trust his fate to the winds. The party, therefore, entered
the boat, the Prince seating himself at the feet of the pilot. There was also another Macleod
in the boat; this was Murdoch, the son of the pilot, a boy of fifteen years of age. The character
of this youth was of no common order. When he had heard of the battle of Culloden, he had provided
himself with a claymore, a dirk, and a pistol; and had run off from school to take his chance
in the field. After the defeat he found means to trace out the road which the Prince had taken,
and to follow him step by step; "and this was the way," related Donald Macleod, "that I met
wi' my poor boy."

Another person who was in the boat, and who afterwards made a conspicuous figure in that romance
of real life, was Ned Bourke, or Burke. This man had belonged to a most valuable class, the
chairmen of Edinburgh, whose honesty is proverbial; their activity and civility almost incredible
to English notions. Bourke was not, as his name seemed to imply, an Irishman; but a native
of North Uist. He had been a servant to Mr. Alexander Macleod, one of Charles Edward's aides-de-camp;
and was the man who had led the Prince off the field of battle, and guided him all the way
to Boradale: for Ned Bourke knew Scotland, and indeed a great portion of England, well, having
been servant to several gentlemen. In this, his most important service, the honest man did
not disgrace his ancient and honourable calling as a chairman. "Excellent things" were spoken
of him to Donald Macleod, who seems to have made some demur as to his Irish name, and to have
objected to taking him on board.

Thus guided, and thus guarded, Charles Edward might fear the winds and waves; but treachery
was not to be dreaded. Not far had the men rowed before a violent storm arose; such as even
Donald had not, from his own account, ever been "trysted with before," though he had all his
life been a seafaring man. The Prince was now as impatient to return to the land as he had
been to quit it; "for," he said, "I would rather face cannons and muskets than be in such a
storm as this!" But Donald was firm in proceeding on the voyage: "Since we are here," he replied,
"we have nothing for it, but, under God, to set out to sea directly." He refused to steer for
the rock, which runs three miles along the side of the loch; observing, "Is it not as good
for us to be drowned in clear water, as to be dashed to pieces on a rock, and drowned also?"

A solemn silence followed this decisive reply. Every one expected instant destruction. The
night was pitch-dark; and there was no light in the boat. They dreaded being landed on some
part of the island of Skye, where the militia were in arms to prevent the Prince's escape.
But, to use the words of the pilot, "As God would have it," that danger was not encountered.
By daybreak the party discovered that they were close to Rushness, in the island of Benbecula,
having run according to the pilot's account, thirty-two leagues in eight hours. During this
perilous voyage the spirits of Charles never sank; he encouraged every one around him, working
himself at the oars: "he was," says Mr. Maxwell, "the only one that seemed void of concern."

Such were the circumstances under which Charles Edward landed in the Long Island;--the event
which brought him into communication with Flora Macdonald. She was at that time calmly engaged
in the usual duties of her station; but the spirit so prevalent in the Highlands was not extinguished
in the Western Islands, either by the dread of the English militia, or by the defeat of the
Prince. All the Jacobites of that period, to adopt the language of President Forbes, "how prudent
soever, became mad; all doubtful people became Jacobites; and all bankrupts became heroes,
and talked of nothing but hereditary right and victory. And what was more grievous to men of
gallantry, and, if you believe me, more mischievous to the public, all the fine ladies, if
you except one or two, became passionately fond of the young adventurer, and used all their
arts for him in the most intemperate manner."[278] It was not, however, an idle, romantic fancy,
but a fixed sentiment of duty, acting upon a kindly heart, which originated the enthusiasm
of Flora.

Whilst the Prince was traversing the Long Island in poverty and danger, a desolate wanderer
wanting the common necessaries of life, but still patient and cheerful ever hoping once more
to assemble his faithful Highlanders,--living at one time four days in a desert island, then
putting to sea pursued by ships,--Flora Macdonald had accidentally quitted her usual residence
at Armadale in Skye, for the purpose of visiting her step-brother at Milton.

During her abode at Milton, Captain O'Neil, who was loitering about the country for the purpose
of gaining intelligence for Charles Edward, formed an acquaintance with this young lady, and,
it is said, paid his addresses to her. More than two months had now elapsed since Charles first
trusted his hopes to the chance of finding a vessel on the coast of the Long Island, to take
him to France. During that period his fortunes had assumed a far more threatening aspect than
at any previous time. Friends had proved faithless; Murray of Broughton, whom the Prince then
still regarded as one of the "firmest, honestest men in the world," had shown to others his
real motives, and the deep selfishness, cowardice, and rapacity, of his heart. In his utmost
need, when the Prince was in want of food, that wretched man had, in reply to a message from
Charles asking money, answered that he had none; having only sixty louis-d'ors for himself,
which were not worth sending. What was perhaps of more immediate moment was, that, whilst the
friends of the young Chevalier had diminished, the number of his foes around him had increased.
Fifteen ships of war were to be seen near the coasts of the Long Island, thus most effectually
destroying all hopes of a French vessel being able to cruize near the shore. To complete his
misfortunes, the Duke of Cumberland, upon learning that his unfortunate kinsman had sheltered
himself in the Western Islands, had sent Captain Caroline Scott, an officer as infamous as
Hawley and Lockhart, to scour the Long Island.

Such were the circumstances of Charles towards the latter end of June 1746. He was then coursing
along the shores of the Long Island, until, pursued by French ships, he was obliged to land,
happily for himself, on the island of Benbecula, between the North and South Uist. Providence
seemed to have conducted him to that wild and bleak shore. Scarcely had he reached it, than
a storm arose, and drove his pursuers off the coast. Here the Prince and his starving companions
were overjoyed to find a number of crabs, or, as the Scottish pilot termed them, partans; a
boon to the famished wanderers. From a hut, about two miles from the shore, Charles removed,
first to the house of Lady Clanranald; and afterwards, by the advice of Clanranald, he went
to South Uist, and took up his abode near the hill of Coradale in the centre of the island,
that being thought the most secure retreat. Here Charles remained until again driven from this
hut by the approach of Captain Scott, with a detachment of five hundred men, who advanced close
to the place where he was concealed. The unfortunate Prince then determined upon a last and
painful effort to save those who had braved hitherto the severities of their lot for his sake.
He parted with all his followers except O'Neil. Donald Macleod shed tears on bidding him farewell.
Macleod was taken prisoner a few days afterwards in Benbecula, by Lieutenant Allan Macdonald,
of Knock, in Slate, in the island of Skye. He was put on board the Furnace,[279] and brought
down to the cabin before General Campbell, who examined him minutely. The General asked him
"if he had been along with the Pretender?" "Yes," said Donald, "I was along with that young
gentleman, and I winna deny it." "Do you know," said the General, "what money was upon the
gentleman's head? no less a sum than four thousand pounds sterling, which would have made you
and your family happy for ever." "What then," said Donald, "what could I have gotten by it?
I could not have enjoyed it for two days, conscience would have gotten the better of me; and
although I could have got England and Scotland for my Prince, I would not have allowed a hair
of his head to be hurt."[280]

After this separation, the Prince, accompanied by O'Neil, again returned to traverse the mountainous
districts of South Uist. He walked in the direction of Benbecula, and about midnight entered
a shealing, or hut, which belonged to Angus Macdonald, the brother of his future deliverer.
The interview which shortly took place between them, was not, as it may readily be conceived,
unpremeditated.[281] Repeatedly, before the meeting, had O'Neil asked Flora whether she would
like to see the Prince? She answered with emotion that she would. She had even expressed an
earnest desire to see him; and had said, if she could be of any use in aiding him to escape
from his enemies, she would do it.

O'Neil had had various opportunities of studying the real character of Flora Macdonald. He
must have had an extraordinary notion of her energy when he first proposed to her, whilst they
met in Clanranald's house, to take the Prince with her to Skye, dressed up in woman's clothes.
This proposition appeared to Flora so "fantastical and dangerous," that she positively declined
it. "A Macdonald, a Macleod, a Campbell militia were," she observed, "in South Uist in quest
of the Prince: a guard was posted at every ferry; every boat was seized; no person could leave
Long Island without a passport; and the channel between Uist and Skye was covered with ships
of war." Such was her resolution whilst she discussed the subject with O'Neil at the house
of her kinsman, Clanranald. Nor does that sense of the dangers of her undertaking lessen the
heroism of the enterprise. But her woman's heart, however timid it might be at Clanranald's
castle, was touched, when she beheld the Prince; and compassion, from which spring the noblest
resolves, inspired her to exertion.

As the Prince, attended by O'Neil, drew near to the hut belonging to Angus Macdonald, the latter
quitted Charles, and went aside, with a design to inform himself whether the independent companies
of militia were to pass that way, or not, on the following day, as he had been informed. Such,
at least, was his pretext; but he had an appointment with Flora Macdonald, who was awaiting
him near the hut. To his question, she answered that "they would not pass until the day after."
Then O'Neil ventured to tell the young lady that he had brought a friend to see her. She inquired
in some agitation "if it was the Prince?" He replied that it was, and he instantly brought
her into the shealing. The kind heart of Flora was afflicted at the sight. Charles was exhausted
with fatigue and misery; he had become thin and weak, and his health was greatly affected by
the hardships which he had undergone. He and O'Neil had lost indeed the means of personal comfort;
they had but two shirts with them, and every article of wearing apparel was worn out. To a
feeble mind, the depressed state of Prince Charles's affairs, his broken-down aspect, and the
dangers which surrounded him, would have inspired reluctance to serve one so desolate. These
circumstances, however, only softened the resistance which Flora had at first made to the scheme
suggested for his escape, and renewed her desire to aid him.

After her first introduction, the discourse for some time turned upon his dangerous situation;
the best remedy for which was, as both the Prince and O'Neil hinted, for Flora to convey him
in disguise to Skye, where her mother lived. This seemed the more feasible, from the situation
which her father-in-law held, and which would enable him to give a pass for herself and her
servant.

The Prince assented to the expediency of the proposal, which originated with O'Neil, and immediately
asked Flora if she would undertake to carry the plan into effect. Flora answered with great
respect and loyalty, but declined, saying that "Sir Alexander Macdonald, who commanded the
militia in Skye, was too much her friend for her to be the instrument of his ruin." O'Neil
endeavoured to combat this opinion, representing that Sir Alexander was not then in the country,
and could not therefore be implicated: he added, that she might easily convey the Prince to
her mother's, at Armadale, as she lived close by the waterside. O'Neil also told her of the
honour and immortal fame which would redound from so glorious an action; and the Prince assured
her that he should always retain a deep sense of "so conspicuous a service." The firmness of
Flora had resisted the arguments of O'Neil; but it was overcome by these few words from the
Prince. She consented to let O'Neil know on the following day at what time every arrangement
would be made for the plan which had been proposed, and she left the Prince and his adherent
to shelter themselves in the mountains of Coradale.[282]

On leaving the shealing, Flora at first returned to Milton; but, having fully made up her mind
to undertake the enterprise, she set out for Ormaclade, the seat of Clanranald, on Saturday
the twenty-first of June. Her journey was not without perilous adventures. On passing a ford,
she was taken prisoner by one of the militia, on account of not having a passport. She inquired
by whom they were commanded; and, finding that her step-father was their captain, she refused
to give an answer to the questions put to her until she saw him. She was made a prisoner for
that night; her captivity being shared by her servant Neil Mac Kechan, a clansman, who was
the father of Marshal Macdonald, Duke of Tarentum. In the morning, Hugh Macdonald of Armadale,
the step-father of Flora, arrived, and liberated her; granting a passport for herself, her
servant, and for another woman whom she styled Betty Burke, a good spinster, whom Armadale
in the innocency of his heart recommended to his wife at Armadale, as she had much lint to
spin. His letter has been preserved; and there is every reason to believe, that, when writing
it, Armadale was wholly unconscious of the design of Flora.[283]

The letter of Armadale to his wife ran as follows:--"I have sent your daughter from this country
lest she should be frightened with the troops lying here. She has got one Betty Burke, an Irish
girl, who, as she tells me, is a good spinner. If her spinning pleases you, you may keep her
till she spins all your lint: or, if you have any wool to spin, you may employ her. I have
sent Mac Kechan along with your daughter and Betty Burke, to take care of them. I am, your
dutiful husband,

                                                   "HUGH MACDONALD."
"June 22nd, 1746."

       *       *       *       *       *

It was late in the afternoon of the Sunday on which Flora had obtained her passport, before
she could communicate with her friends in the mountains; about four o'clock, however, they
received a message telling them that all was well. The Prince and his companion, therefore,
determined immediately to join their protectress.

Upon being set at liberty, Flora went immediately to Ormaclade, where she had, in Lady Clanranald,
an enthusiastic assistant. She remained at Ormaclade for several days, making arrangements
for the complete disguise of the Prince.

The Prince and O'Neil had only waited for the arrival of Flora's messenger to set out and meet
their heroic friend; but the trusty individual who had brought them the tidings that all was
well, informed them that they could not pass either of the fords which separated South Uist
from Benbecula, as they were guarded by militia. In this extremity the Prince knew not how
he should ever reach the place appointed for his meeting with Flora, which was Rossinish, in
Benbecula, from which spot she was to conduct him to Skye. An inhabitant of South Uist, seeing
his perplexity, offered him a boat: the proffered aid was accepted; and Charles, with O'Neil,
was landed on a promontory which the pilot of the boat assured the Prince was the island of
Benbecula. Charles therefore dismissed the boatmen, with orders to meet him on the opposite
side of the island; and began his journey. He had not gone far when he found himself surrounded
with water, and perceived that the pilot had made a mistake. Neither Charles nor his companions
had ever before been in this part of Benbecula. They looked around them on the desolate prospect,
and perceived that they were on a peninsula, perfectly desert, and which at high-water was
separated from Benbecula. At first Charles hoped, that, when the tide was out, some passage
might be discovered; but the waves retired and no passage appeared. The Prince was not disheartened;
for his courage, never justly questioned, had gained its best allies, patience and fortitude,
during the adversities of the last few months. He supported the fainting spirits of his companions;
and, to encourage them to search for a passage, said that he knew of one, although he was in
fact as ignorant as they were. At length he discovered a passage, and the party reached a little
hut, which they were assured was in Benbecula.[284] He marched on, exhausted as he was, to
Rossinish, and arrived there at midnight, but found not the deliverer they expected; on the
contrary, he learned that they were within fifty miles of the enemy. Hungry as they were, having
eaten nothing all day, the Prince and his fainting companions were obliged to retreat four
miles. Captain O'Neil was then sent to Ormaclade, to inquire why Flora had not been true to
her appointment. She told him that she now considered that North Uist would be a safer place
of refuge than Skye, and that she had engaged a cousin of hers to receive him there. O'Neil
remained at Ormaclade, and sent a boy to inform the Prince, who was now only at eight miles'
distance, of this proposal; but that scheme was soon abandoned, the gentleman to whom Flora
referred refusing to receive the Prince. In this dilemma, Charles was informed that his enemies
had quitted Rossinish, and he therefore hastened to that place. His safe arrival there was,
indeed, almost miraculous. Near him was a guard of fifty men; the island was full of militia;
and the secret of his being in it was known to many a poor cotter. But, in these vicissitudes
of his eventful and unhappy life, the Prince was thrown among a faithful and honourable people,
in whose bosoms the conviction was planted, that to betray him would bring down a curse upon
themselves and their posterity.

On arriving at Rossinish, Captain O'Neil was again dispatched to Flora to express the disappointment
of Charles on not seeing her, and to beg her to join him. She promised faithfully to do so
on the following day; and she kept her word. Having hired a six-oared boat to convey her to
Skye, and appointed it to be at a certain part of the coast, she set out for Rossinish: accompanied
by Lady Clanranald, whose participation in the cause was shortly afterwards punished by imprisonment;--by
a Mrs. Macdonald, and by Mac Kechan, her servant. They entered a hut, where they found this
unfortunate descendant of an ill-fated race preparing his own dinner. It consisted of the heart,
liver, and kidneys of a sheep, which he was turning upon a wooden spit. The compassion of the
ladies was roused by this sight; but Charles, as he bade them welcome to the humble repast,
moralized on his fate. He observed, that all kings would be benefited by such an ordeal as
that which he had endured. His philosophy was seasoned by the hope of attaining what he ever
desired,--the hereditary monarchy which he believed to be his birthright. He observed, that
the wretched to-day, may be happy to-morrow. At the dinner, Flora Macdonald sat on the right-hand
of the Prince, and Lady Clanranald on the left.

After the meal was ended, Charles was requested by Flora to assume the female apparel which
Lady Clanranald had brought. It was, of course, very homely, and consisted of a flowered linen
gown, a light-coloured quilted petticoat, and a mantle of clean camlet, made after the Irish
fashion, with a hood. Their dangers, as he put on his dress, did not check the merriment of
the party; and many jokes were passed upon the costume of Betty Burke. A small shallop was
lying near the shore, and Flora proposed that they should remove near to the place whence they
were to embark, for her fears had been excited by a message which arrived from Ormaclade, acquainting
Lady Clanranald that a party of soldiers, under the infamous Captain Fergusson, had arrived
at her house, and had taken up their quarters there. Lady Clanranald hastened home, where she
managed to deceive and perplex both General Campbell, who had lately arrived in Benbecula,
and Captain Fergusson.

And now another trial was at hand:--it was necessary for Captain O'Neil and the Prince to separate.
The Irishman would fain have remained with Charles, but Flora was firm, as well as kind; her
opinion on this point was decided; and O'Neil was obliged to yield. This point was not gained
without much difficulty, for Charles even remonstrated. O'Neil took his leave, and made his
way, through a country traversed by troops, to South Uist, where O'Sullivan had been left.
"I could now," writes Captain O'Neil in his journal, when he relates his departure from the
Prince, "only recommend him to God and his good fortune." This kind-hearted man was afterwards
taken prisoner by Captain Fergusson, who had him stripped and threatened not only with the
rack, but also with being whipped by his hangman, because he would not disclose where the Prince
was. These cruelties were opposed, however, by a junior officer, who, coming out with a drawn
sword, threatened Fergusson with a beating, and saved O'Neil from the punishment which was
to have been the requital of his fidelity.

When all were gone, except Flora, the Prince, and Mac Kechan, the party proceeded to the sea-shore,
where they arrived wet and wearied, and passed the night upon a rock. They made a fire to warm
themselves, and endeavoured still to maintain hope and cheerfulness. How picturesque and singular
must have been the group, thus awaiting the moment which should perhaps only conduct them to
fresh perils! As they reclined among the heath which grew on the rock, four wherries, filled
with armed men, caused the little party to extinguish their fire, and to hide themselves in
the heather. The wherries, which made at first for the shore, sailed by to the southward, within
a gun-shot of the spot where Charles Edward and Flora were concealed. At eight o'clock in the
evening of Saturday, the twenty-eighth of June 1746, the Prince and she set sail from Benbecula
for Skye.

The evening on which they quitted the shores which had been to them such scenes of peril was
clear; but, not long after they had embarked, the sea became rough, and the weather stormy.
Prince Charles resolved never to despond, sang songs to prevent the spirits of the company
from flagging, and talked gaily and hopefully of the future. Exhausted by her previous exertions,
Flora sank into a sleep; and Charles carefully watched her slumbers, being afraid lest the
voices of the boatmen should arouse her, or, in the dark, that any of the men should step upon
her. She awoke in a surprise at some little bustle in the boat, and asked hastily "What was
the matter?" What must have been her emotions at that moment!

The next day, Sunday, was one of anxiety. The boatmen had lost their track, and had no compass;
the wind had changed, it was then calm. They made, however, towards Waternish, in the west
of Skye; but they found the place possessed by militia, and three boats were visible near the
shore. A man on board one of the boats fired at them; on which they made away as fast as they
could; for, in addition to that danger, several ships of war were now in sight. The Prince
and his friends took shelter, therefore, in a cleft of a rock on the shore, and there remained
to rest the men, who had been up all night, and to prepare their provisions for dinner. The
party then resumed their voyage: fortunately it was calm, for otherwise, in any distress of
weather, they must have been overtaken and have perished, for an alarm had already been given
of the appearance of a strange boat, and the militia were upon the watch; the promised reward
set upon Charles having excited all the vigilance of his enemies. At length, after rowing some
time, they landed at Kilbride in Troternish, in Skye, about twelve miles to the north of Waternish.
But several parties of militia were in the neighbourhood. Flora now quitted the boat, and went
with Neil Mac Kechan to Mugstat, the residence of Sir Alexander Macdonald: here she desired
one of the servants to apprise Lady Macdonald of her arrival. The lady was not unprepared to
receive her, for a kinswoman had gone a short time before to tell her of the enterprise in
which Flora had engaged.

Lady Margaret was well disposed to give the cause every assistance in her power. She was the
daughter of the celebrated Susanna, Countess of Eglintoune, and of Alexander, ninth Earl of
Eglintoune, who was supposed, while ostensibly supporting the family on the throne, to be a
secret friend of the Stuarts.[285] Lady Margaret was one of seven sisters, famed for their
loveliness, and for the "Eglintoune air," a term applied to that family as a tribute to the
lofty grace of their deportment. "It was a goodly sight," observes Mr. Chambers, "a century
ago, to see the long processions of sedans containing Lady Eglintoune and her daughters devolve
from the Close,[286] and proceed to the Assembly Rooms in the West Bow, where there was usually
a considerable crowd of plebeian admirers congregated, to behold their lofty and graceful figures
step from the chairs on the pavement." Lady Margaret was greatly beloved in Skye. When she
rode through the island, the people ran before her, and took the stones off the road, lest
her horse should stumble. Her husband was also very popular. Such was the hospitality of Mugstat,
that every week a hogshead of claret was drunk at his table.[287]

Lady Margaret had now been married six years to Sir Alexander Macdonald of Macdonald. She was
the mother of three sons, two of whom were eminently distinguished. To these acquirements he
added those amiable qualities, which, united to great erudition, procured him the title of
the "Marcellus of the Western Isles." His early death was regarded as a general calamity; his
tomb was honoured by an inscription composed by Lyttleton. When Dr. Johnson visited the isle
of Skye, this young man, who died at Rome in the twenty-fifth year of his age, was still mentioned
with tears. His brother, Sir Alexander, the English-bred chieftain, but ill-supplied his loss.
He was no Highlander. "Nay, sir," rejoined Johnson, "if you are born to object, I have done
with you, sir. I would have a magazine of arms." "They would rust," was the meek reply. "Let
there be men to clean them," cried the Doctor, "your ancestors did not use to let their arms
rust!" Such was Lady Margaret's second son. The third, and youngest son of Lady Margaret, revived,
however, all the fondly remembered virtues of Sir James. Some persons may still recall the
benignant appearance of the late venerable Sir Archibald Macdonald, Lord Chief Baron of the
Court of Exchequer in England: there are many who must recollect his virtues and acquirements
with respect.

The character of Lady Margaret was not that of her second son; but of a spirited generous woman.
She was not one who would allow the arms of her ancestors "to rust." Before the Prince's arrival,
her energies had been employed in contriving the fittest route for him to take after leaving
Mugstat, for she was as enthusiastic an adherent of Charles Edward as any of her female relations.
Whilst he was in North Uist, he had sent Lady Margaret a letter, enclosed, by Hugh Macdonald
of Balishair, to his brother Donald Roy Macdonald, with orders to deliver it to Lady Margaret
alone; and, in case of attack while at sea, to sink it, by tying it to a stone. This letter
revealed the secret of the Prince's intention to quit the Long Island: it informed Lady Margaret
that Charles wanted almost all necessary habiliments; and desired that some shirts and blankets
might be provided for him; the Prince having hitherto slept only in his plaid, a custom which
he retained almost constantly during his wanderings. Balishair's letter had also unfolded a
plan at that time in contemplation, that Charles should take refuge on the small grass-island
called Fladdanuach, belonging to Sir Alexander Macdonald, and having only one tenant upon it.
Thither Lady Margaret was to send Donald Roy Macdonald with the articles to be in readiness
for the Prince.

Lady Margaret had instantly complied with these injunctions. Eventually the notion of making
Fladdanuach the retreat of Charles was given up; but the zealous Lady Margaret had made the
most careful preparations for that scheme, and it was not from any negligence on her part that
it was abandoned. The packet sent by Balishair contained, however, another valuable paper.
This was a letter written in Prince Charles's own hand, chiefly one of compliment, and full
of gratitude to Lady Margaret for sending him newspapers, which had been delivered to him through
Macdonald of Balishair.

This precious letter had, some time before Flora had arrived at Mugstat, been delivered to
Lady Margaret. When she received it, she rose from her seat, and kissing it said, alluding
to a precaution which had been recommended, "I will never burn it; I will preserve it for the
sake of him who wrote it to me. Although King George's forces should come to the house, I shall
find means to secure it." Afterwards, however, her house being searched by the dreaded Fergusson,
she considered it necessary for Charles's safety to burn it; although, as it proved, there
was no search whatsoever for papers.

Lady Margaret had been aided in her efforts and plans by a zealous kinsman, Captain Roy Macdonald,
who had been wounded at the battle of Culloden. This person was still under medical care, and
was living in the house of a surgeon named Maclean, at Troternish. When Charles landed at Skye,
Roy Macdonald, wounded as he was, had sailed to Fladdanuach, at Lady Margaret's bidding, with
clothes and money, and had returned just in time to witness her perplexity at the Prince's
unexpected arrival.

Upon that event being made known by Flora Macdonald to Lady Margaret, she sent a message to
Captain Roy Macdonald, entreating him to come to her immediately. He complied, and found Lady
Margaret walking in the garden of Mugstat, talking very earnestly to Alexander Macdonald of
Kingsburgh, a gentleman of the neighbourhood, who acted as factor, or chamberlain, to Sir Alexander.
As Roy Macdonald approached, Lady Margaret exclaimed, holding up her hands, "Oh, Donald Roy,
we are ruined for ever!" It was then imparted to him that the Prince was within a quarter of
a mile from Mugstat, in woman's clothes; that Lieutenant Macleod, who was employed to guard
that part of Skye, and three or four of his militia-men, were about the house; a number of
others being not far distant: what was still more alarming, Flora Macdonald and the Lieutenant
were at that time conversing together in the dining-room.

A consultation immediately ensued as to the plan the most proper to ensure Charles Edward's
safety. Donald Roy Macdonald declared, that, whatever they should agree upon, "He would undertake
(God willing) to accomplish at the risk of his life." Kingsburgh was first called upon to give
his opinion. He proposed that the Prince should sail by the point of Troternish to Raasay,
because it would be impossible for him to remain in Skye with safety. This plan was, however,
opposed by Lady Margaret, who said, that, if the Prince was to sail for Raasay, it were better
that he should remain at Mugstat all night. In short, no scheme appeared practicable; and the
consultation was frequently broken off in despair, and renewed only to start fresh difficulties.
At last Donald Roy said, "What do you think, Kingsburgh, if the Prince should run the risk
of making his way over to Portree by land?" Kingsburgh, notwithstanding that he was full of
apprehension, thought that the plan might be tried, although the distance from Mugstat to Portree
was fourteen long Highland miles. At first it was decided that Donald Roy should be the bearer
of this scheme to the Prince; but it was afterwards argued, that, since the Prince must make
"a monstrous figure" in woman's clothes, there might be some suspicion excited by Donald Roy's
talking to so singular a stranger. It was therefore determined that no one except Flora Macdonald
should be entrusted with the perilous task of taking messages to Charles at his station on
the shore. Lady Margaret in the course of this conversation expressed "that she was in great
difficulties." It was impossible that she could apply to any of the Clan for assistance. The
general belief was, that Sir Alexander Macdonald was unfriendly to the Prince, and that no
greater favour could be shown by the chief than seizing the royal fugitive. This increased
the danger of Charles's remaining in Skye, and threw her entirely upon the good offices of
Kingsburgh and Roy Donald.

During this conference Flora Macdonald was keeping up what she afterwards described to Bishop
Forbes as "a close chit-chat" with Lieutenant Macleod, who put to her questions which she answered
as "she thought fit." Lady Margaret, meantime, could not forbear going in and out in great
anxiety; a circumstance which Flora observed, and which could not but add to her embarrassment;
nevertheless, this extraordinary young woman maintained the utmost composure. She even dined
in company with the Lieutenant without betraying her perplexity in a single instance: never
was the value of that admirable quality, presence of mind, more forcibly seen than in this
instance. It had been the office of the Lieutenant to examine every boat that had landed, and
to investigate into the motives and destination of every passenger. How the boat which had
conveyed the Prince to Skye escaped search has not been explained. At all events, Flora completely
baffled every inquiry; and perhaps no one could do so better than a Scottish woman. The ordinary
caution in reply, observable in Highland females, is very striking. The Prince was awaiting
his fate all this time upon the rock at the shore, not above a gun-shot from the foot of the
garden. The faithful and anxious servant Mac Kechan went to him repeatedly, but without molestation;
and Macdonald of Kingsburgh, who could not controul his anxiety to see Charles Edward, providing
himself with a bottle of wine and some bread, also repaired to him. The Prince was then sitting
upon the shore, having startled a flock of sheep, the running of which first attracted Kingsburgh
to the place where he was planted.

Charles had removed to a more distant spot than that which he had at first selected, for he
had been apprised by Neil Mac Kechan of Kingsburgh's intended visit, and conducted by that
faithful servant to the back of a certain hill, where he was requested to wait until Kingsburgh
should reach him. It was also announced to Charles by Neil, that he was to go to Portree, resting
by the way at the house of Kingsburgh, who was a staunch Jacobite.

When Kingsburgh drew near to the place where Charles awaited him, he saw the Prince approaching
him with a short thick cudgel (not a very feminine appendage) in his hand. "Are you," cried
Charles, "Mr. Macdonald of Kingsburgh?" "Yes, sir," replied Kingsburgh. "Then," said Charles,
"all is well; come let us be going." Macdonald, however, first begged the Prince to partake
of some refreshment, which he did; the top of a rock serving for a table. This being done,
they proceeded on their journey; Kingsburgh telling his fellow-traveller with no less admiration
than joy, "that he could recollect no cause either of business or duty for his being at Mugstat
that day." "I'll tell you the cause," said the Prince; "Providence sent you hither to take
care of me."

They were now interrupted by some country-people coming from the kirk. These sociable rustics
were disposed to favour the Prince and his companion with their conversation. Kingsburgh could
think of no other way of getting rid of them than saying, "Eh, sirs! cannot ye let alone talking
o' your worldly affairs on the sabbath? and have patience till another day?" The poor people
took the pious hint and moved off.[288]

For some time after the Prince had set out, Flora remained at Mugstat, where Lady Margaret,
who could only speak to her in presence of the officer, pressed her much to stay, and feigned
a great anxiety to retain her for a few days, telling her that she had promised to do so the
first time that she came that way. But Flora excused herself, saying that she wanted to be
at home in these troublesome times, and also to see her mother. She was at length suffered
to depart, accompanied by Mrs. Macdonald of Kirkibost, the lady who had apprised Lady Margaret
of her visit, but who was not in the secret of the Prince's disguise. This lady's maid and
man servant, and Mac Kechan completed the party. Lady Margaret during the whole of this agitating
affair never saw the Prince "in any shape."[289]

Flora and her companions soon overtook the Prince and Kingsburgh. They found the curiosity
of her companion somewhat inconvenient, for Mrs. Macdonald was very anxious to see the "strange
woman's" face; but it was always turned away from her inquisitive gaze. Yet Mrs. Macdonald
made her observations nevertheless. "She never," she said, "had seen before such an impudent-looking
woman--and she must either be an Irish woman, or a man in woman's clothes!" Flora, who had
the happy and rare art of not saying too much, replied that "she was an Irishwoman, for she
had seen her before." The maid who attended Mrs. Macdonald took notice of the supposed Irish
woman's awkward way of managing her petticoats, and remarked what long strides she took in
walking. In particular, in wading a rivulet, the Prince lifted up his troublesome garments
so high, that Mac Kechan called out to him "for God's sake to take care, or he would discover
himself." Charles laughed heartily, and thanked him for his cautions: he much feared that they
would be neglected. Flora began to be apprehensive of the loquacious and observant mistress
and maid. She, as well as Mrs. Macdonald, was now on horseback, and she proposed that the ladies
should go on a little faster, and leave those on foot to take their time. There was another
object in this arrangement: the country was traversed by parties of militia, and it was necessary
for the Prince and Kingsburgh to diverge by a cross-road over the hills to the place of their
destination. They went therefore by by-paths, south-south-east, to Kingsburgh's house, which
they reached at midnight; Flora having arrived there a short time before. She had parted with
her other companions on the road.

During this journey of seven long miles, which were performed in a drenching rain, there was
no slight risk, owing to the very singular demeanour of the Prince, and to the awkwardness
with which he performed his part. Betty Burke was regarded by the gazing passers-by as a very
strange woman. When the country-people greeted him with an obeisance, he returned it with a
bow instead of a curtsey; and in all his gestures he forgot the woman, and retained the man.
After the remonstrance upon holding his skirts too high, he let them fall down into the streams
which often intersected his path. "Your enemies, sir," remarked Kingsburgh, "call you a Pretender,
but you are the worst at your trade that I ever saw." "Why," replied Charles laughing, "they
do me perhaps as much injustice in this as in other respects. I have all my life despised assumed
characters, and am the worst dissembler in the world."

Lady Kingsburgh, not expecting her husband that night, had retired to rest; and her house was
not at this time in the best possible condition for receiving visitors. Kingsburgh, however,
introduced Charles into the hall, and sent a servant up-stairs to desire Lady Kingsburgh to
rise and dress herself. But the lady was not disposed to comply with her husband's commands
that night. She sent a message to beg that he and his guests would help themselves to whatsoever
they found in the house, and excuse her absence. As soon as she had despatched this answer,
her daughter, a child of seven years of age, ran into the room, and told her, with much astonishment,
that her father had brought home the most odd "ill-shaken-up wife" that she had ever seen,
and had conducted her into the hall. Kingsburgh now made his appearance, and entreated his
wife to come down-stairs, her presence being absolutely requisite.[290] Lady Kingsburgh was
now really aroused. She could not help suspecting that her husband had taken into his house
some of those proscribed and wretched fugitives who were skulking about the country. She could
well imagine the distress of many of the Jacobites, for a paper had been, for some weeks, read
in the kirks, forbidding all persons to give any sort of sustenance to a rebel, under pain
of being deprived of it themselves.[291]

She now dressed herself, sending her little girl into the hall to fetch her keys. The child
went down-stairs, but returned, saying that she could not go into the hall, the "strange woman"
was walking backwards and forwards in so frightful a manner. Lady Kingsburgh therefore went
herself, but stopped short at the door on seeing the stranger, whose aspect seems to have been
unusually gaunt and unwomanly. Her husband, however, bade her go in for her keys, and at last
she found courage to enter.

As she walked into the hall, Charles arose from his seat and advanced to meet her. According
to the custom of the day, which applied both to ladies and gentlemen, he offered her the compliment
of a salute. Lady Kingsburgh felt the roughness of no woman's cheek against her own. Alarmed
at the discovery, she nearly fainted; she spoke not, neither did the stranger. She went hastily
towards Kingsburgh, and told him her suspicions. No reproaches were uttered on her part for
the introduction, which had evidently some risk connected with it; she merely asked, "Does
this strange woman know anything about the Prince?" Her husband, taking her hand, replied,
"My dear, this is the Prince himself." "The Prince!" returned Lady Kingsburgh; "then we shall
all be hanged!" "We can die but once," answered Kingsburgh; "could we die in a better cause?
We are only doing an act of humanity."

He then desired her to send in supper. "Let us have eggs, butter, cheese, or whatever can be
procured in the shortest time." The lady remonstrated. "Eggs, butter, and cheese for a Prince!"
"he will never look at such a supper." "Ah, my dear," returned Kingsburgh, "you little know
how this poor Prince has fared of late. Our supper will be a banquet to him. Besides, any formal
preparation would excite suspicion. Make haste, and come to supper yourself." Lady Kingsburgh
had now a new source of alarm. "I come to supper!" she cried; "I do not know how to behave
before a Prince." She was reassured by her husband, who told her that there was no difficulty
in behaving before this Prince, who was so easy and obliging.

The party, who had undergone such a day's journey, sat up nearly till dawn, and became merry
over their supper. Never was there a more joyous or inspiring guest at a feast than the unfortunate
Charles. He was now in the house of a trusted adherent; and his spirits, which had been unaltered
even in huts and caverns, gladdened all present. His favourite toast, was "To the Black Eye!"
by which, as his pilot to the Long Island, Donald Macleod, relates, he meant the second daughter
of France; "and I never heard him," said Donald, "name any particular health but that alone.
When he spoke of that lady, which he did frequently, he appeared to be more than ordinarily
well-pleased."[292]

The Prince ate heartily, and drank a bumper of brandy to the health of his host and hostess.
When the ladies had retired, he took out a little black piece of tobacco-pipe which had been
his consolation in all his wanderings, and began to smoke. Like most persons who have recourse
to a similar practice, Prince Charles framed an excuse for it on the plea of health, telling
Kingsburgh, that he had found it essential, in order to cure the tooth-ache, from which he
had suffered much. His pipe had obtained the name, among his companions, of the "cutty".

A small china punch-bowl was then produced by the host, and was twice replenished with the
very popular beverage called toddy, of which the Prince expressed his unqualified approbation.
Conversation, thus aided and exhilarated, flowed freely; and the charm of Charles's gay courtesy
was long remembered by his Highland landlord, who thus, at the risk of all that was dear to
him, welcomed the unfortunate wanderer to his home. Morning dawned before either the Prince
or Kingsburgh talked of retiring. At last Kingsburgh became anxious. He knew that it was necessary
for Charles to proceed to Portree early the next day; and he earnestly desired that the Prince
should have some rest. He refused to fill the bowl again, and began to urge his Highness to
retire. Charles eagerly pressed for another supply of usquebaugh and warm water. In the contention,
the bowl, which Kingsburgh had brought from Mugstat for the Prince to drink the wine out of
on the shore, was broken. This ended the altercation, and Charles retired to rest.

The next day was far advanced before the Prince, after his conviviality of the preceding evening,
was aroused; and the watchful Flora in vain sent Kingsburgh into his chamber to persuade him
to rise. Kingsburgh had not the heart to awaken the fugitive from a repose which he so rarely
enjoyed, and, on finding him in a profound sleep, retired. At last, one o'clock had struck,
and the Prince was summoned to begin another journey. Kingsburgh, inquiring if he had had a
good night, was answered that he had never enjoyed a better one in his life. "I had almost
forgotten," said Charles, "what a good bed was." He then prepared to set out. He was first
to go to Portree; his destination being, ultimately, the island of Raasay. The choice of this
place as a retreat originated in the ancient league which subsisted between the families of
Macdonald and of Raasay. Whenever the head of either family died, his sword was given to the
head of the other. The chief of Raasay had joined the Highland army, but had saved his estate
by conveying it to his son, young Macleod. Sir Alexander Macdonald, on that occasion, had thus
addressed his neighbour and ally: "Don't be afraid, Raasay; I'll use my interest to keep you
safe; and, if your estate should be taken, I'll buy it for the family. And he would have done
it."[293]

On quitting Kingsburgh, the Prince was determined to cast off his disguise. Kingsburgh was
favourable to the change, but Flora would not consent to it: it was necessary, she thought,
that the wanderer should leave the house in the same dress as he had entered it; so that, if
inquiry were made, the servants would not be able to describe his appearance. He, therefore,
once more figured in the habiliments of Betty Burke; and the only change, which was at the
suggestion of Kingsburgh, was in the article of shoes; those in which he had walked being now
worn out; a new pair was therefore supplied by Kingsburgh. When the exchange was made, Kingsburgh
hung up the old shoes in a corner of his room, observing, that they might still do him some
service. Charles inquired, "How?" "Why," replied Kingsburgh, "when you are at St. James's,
I shall hold up these shoes before you, and thus remind you of your night's entertainment and
protection under my roof." Charles, with a smile, desired him to be as "good as his word."
These precious deposits, never being required to appear at St. James's, were, after old Kingsburgh's
death, cut into pieces, and kept as relics by the Jacobite ladies, and even by the grave but
enthusiastic Bishop Forbes.[294]

It had been decided that Flora Macdonald should proceed on horseback to Portree by a different
road, and should meet the Prince there. She therefore took a temporary leave of Charles; and
Kingsburgh accompanied him to a wood not far from his house. When the Prince had departed,
Lady Kingsburgh went up-stairs, and folded up the sheets in which he had slept, declaring that
they should never be washed nor used till her death, when they should be made into her winding-sheet.
She was afterwards induced to divide this valuable memorial with Flora Macdonald.

Mac Kechan, and a little herd-boy by way of a guide, alone accompanied the Prince, as he set
out upon a laborious walk of fourteen miles towards Portree. It would have excited much suspicion,
had any more important persons attended him. At an appointed place Charles threw off his female
attire, and again "grasped the claymore." His clothes were concealed in a bush until they could
be carried to Kingsburgh's house, where they were burnt upon the alarm of a search on the part
of the military. The gown only was retained, by the express desire of Kingsburgh's daughter.[295]
The Prince now once more wore the Highland dress, which had been furnished him by Kingsburgh.

Meantime, Captain Roy Macdonald had gone to seek the young Macleod of Raasay, or, as he was
called, Rona, whose very brother-in-law, Archibald Macqueen, was then in search for the Prince
in South Uist. Young Macleod, though at first indisposed to confide the place where his father
had taken refuge to Roy Macdonald, ended eventually by expressing, both on his own part and
on that of his father, the strongest desire to serve the Prince, especially in his distress.
"Then," said Roy Macdonald, "I expect the Prince this night at Portree; and as there is no
boat on this side fit to carry him over to Raasay, you must do your best, Rona, to get one
for the purpose to ferry the Prince over to Raasay, for thither he means to set out from Portree."
Rona undertook this service, but was unwilling to leave Portree until he should see the Prince;
for he had not been "out" in the last campaign. But, being repeatedly urged by Roy Macdonald,
he at last embarked in a crazy old boat which filled perpetually with water, and could only
with assistance be made to convey passengers from Portree to Raasay, a distance nearly of five
miles. Before young Raasay embarked, Roy Macdonald had received a note from Kingsburgh, importing
that Flora Macdonald was so fatigued that she could not go to Portree so soon as she had intended;
and ordering the captain to provide a boat to ferry her about to Strath, because it would be
easier to her "to make it out" by sea than overland. Captain Roy Macdonald took the hint, and
judged exactly for whom the boat thus carefully alluded to was to be provided. On Monday the
thirtieth of June, young Raasay, and his brothers Murdoch Macleod and Malcolm Macleod, arrived
after a short, but perilous voyage within a mile of Portree. Malcolm went to the shore, leaving
Rona in the boat. As he walked from the beach, he saw three persons approaching. It is said,
that at Raasay nine months of the year are rainy. This June evening was one of the rainy periods;
and Malcolm Macleod could not, through the darkness, discover who these three persons were.
The place of meeting agreed upon was a small public-house near the shore, about half a mile
from the port of Portree; to this house Malcolm Macleod sent to Captain Roy Macdonald, desiring
him to come out and speak to a friend. Roy Macdonald complied with the summons, taking with
him a half mutchkin stoup full of whiskey. Macleod then informed him that Rona and his brother
Murdoch were on the shore with a boat, which, with much difficulty and danger they had brought
from Raasay to convey the Prince to that island; he begged that they would not delay, as it
was raining very heavily.

Donald Roy Macdonald then told Malcolm that the three persons whom he had seen going towards
the public-house were the Prince, Mac Kechan, and the herd-boy. Of their approach he had been
apprized by the energetic Flora, who had arrived at Portree some hours previously.

Donald Roy Macdonald, who is described as being the model of "a perfect Highland gentleman,"
shared the enthusiasm of Flora. Although still lame from the wound in his foot, he had, during
the course of that evening, looked out incessantly for the Prince, but was unable to see him.
He had not, however, been long in the public-house, before the voice of the herd-boy calling
for the landlord, and desiring to know if one Donald Roy Macdonald were there, drew his attention.
He stepped out, and was told by the boy that there was a gentleman, a little above the house,
who desired to speak to him. The captain sent the boy away, and immediately went to the spot
where the Prince stood. Charles embraced him, putting his head first over one shoulder, and
then over the other; and telling Donald to use no ceremony, for that it was impossible to know
who might be observing them. When Donald expressed his regret at the darkness of the night,
Charles said, "I am more sorry that our lady" (so he called Flora Macdonald) "should be so
abused with the rain."

After they entered the house, a curious scene took place. "The Prince," relates Donald Roy,[296]
"no sooner entered the house than he asked if a dram could be got there, the rain pouring down
from his clothes; he having on plaid, without breeches, trews, or even philibeg. Before he
sat down, he got his dram; and then the company desired him to shift, and put on a dry shirt,
Captain Roy Macdonald giving him his philibeg. The Prince refused to shift, as Miss Flora Macdonald
was in the room; but the captain and Neil Mac Kechan told him, it was not time to stand upon
ceremonies, and prevailed upon him to put on a dry shirt. By this time they had brought some
meat into the room, (the Prince having called for it before he would think of shifting,) which
consisted of butter, cheese, bread, and roasted fish."

