Off. That is a matter of opinion. If a Volunteer officer can bring to bear his social position
(for instance, should his men be his tenants, or in his employment), he may find the task of
command an easy one. But should the battalion to which he belongs be composed of that large
class of persons who consider "one man as good as another, and better," no little tact is required
in keeping up discipline. Besides this, he starts at a disadvantage. Every retirement from
the regiment means the loss of an earner of the capitation grant; and as the maintenance of
a Volunteer corps is an exceedingly expensive matter, a "free and independent private" feels
that if he withdraws, or is forced to withdraw, his officers are practically the pecuniary
sufferers of the proceeding.

The Com. Am I to understand then that the cost of a battalion falls upon the commissioned rank?

Off. Almost entirely. The officers have generally to pay a heavy entrance fee, and subscription,
and must, if they wish to be popular, contribute largely to prize funds, entertainments, and
the cost of "marching out." Besides these charges they have to be particularly hospitable or
benevolent (either word will do) to the companies to which they specially belong.

The Com. Well, certainly, it seems that an Officer of Volunteers has many responsibilities--what
are his privileges?

Off. Only one is officially recognised--the right to be snubbed!

The Com. And the result?

Off. That there is scarcely a corps in the kingdom without vacancies. Men nowadays, fail to
see the fun of all work and no pay, play, or anything else. This very week a meeting is being
held at the Royal United Service Institution, to consider what can be done to advance the interests
of the officers--another word for the interests of the whole force.

The Com. You have my sympathy, and if I can help you--

Off. Not another word, Sir. The good services of Mr. Punch for the last thirty years are appreciated
by all of us, and we know we can rely upon him as confidently in the future as we have done
with good reason in the past. [The Witness then retired.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW IT'S DONE.

(A HANDBOOK TO HONESTY.)

NO. IV.--THE GRAND OLD (JOBBING) GARDENER.

    SCENE--the Garden of a modest Suburban Villa. Present,
    Simple Citizen, with budding horticultural ambitions, and
    Jobbing Gardener, "highly recommended" for skill and low
    charges. The latter is a grizzled personage, very bowed as to
    back, and baggy as to breeches, but in his manner combining
    oracular "knowingness" and deferential plausibility in a
    remarkable degree.

Simple Citizen. You see SMUGGINS, things are a little bit in the rough here, at present.

Grand Old Gardener. Ah, you may well say that, Sir! Bin allowed to run to rack and ruin, this
here pooty bit o' garding has. Want a lot o' clearing, scurryfunging, and topping and lopping,
afore it'll look anythink like. But it's got the making of a puffeck parrydise in it, a puffeck
parrydise it has--with my adwice.

S.C. Glad to hear you say so, SMUGGINS. Now what I propose is--

G.O.G. (laying a horny hand on S.C.'s coat-sleeve). If you'll ascuse me, Sir, I'll jest give
yer my ideas. It'll save time. (Lays down artfully the lines of a plan involving radical alteration
of paths, and lawns, and beds, shifting of shrubs, cutting down of trees, rooting up of trailers,
and what he calls "toppin' an' loppin'" to a tremendous extent.) Then, Sir, you'll 'ave a bit
o' garding as'll be the pride o' yer eye, and a tidy bit o' profit into the bargain, or I don't
know my bizness. An' I oughter too, seeing as I wos 'ed gardener to the Dook of FITZ-FUZZ for
close on twenty year, afore the rheumaticks took me like wot you see. Hu-a-a-h!!!

S.C. Yes; but, SMUGGINS, all these alterations will run into time and--expense, I'm afraid.

G.O.G. (confidentially). You leave that to me, Sir! The fust expense'll be the biggest, and
a saving in the long run, take my word. And then you will 'ave a garding, you will, one as
that 'ere muddled up bit o' greenery nex door won't be a patch on it, for all he's so proud
of it.(Gets Simple Citizen into his clutches, and works him to his will.)

    SCENE II.--The Same, six months later in the Season.

S.C. (returning from a fortnight's absence). What, SMUGGINS, still at it? And--eh--by Jove,
what have you been up to? Why I hardly know the place again!

G.O.G. (complacently). I should 'ope not, Sir It is a bit different from when you last saw
it, I flatter myself. Fact it is a garding, now. Then it wos a wildernidge!

S.C. Yes, but SMUGGINS, hang it all, you've cut almost every bit of greenery away!

G.O.G. (contemptuously). Greenery!!! And who wants greenery? Greenery ain't gardening, greenery
ain't not by chorks. Any fool, even that cove nex door, can grow greenery!

S.C. Yes, but SMUGGINS, I don't like my limes to look like gouty posts, my branchy elms to
show as bare as broom-sticks, and my fruit-trees to be trimmed into timber-screens!

G.O.G. (persuasively). No, Sir, cert'ny not. Fact is they'd bin let grow wild so long that
cutting on 'em freely back wos the only way to save 'em. Jest wait till next year, Sir, and
you'll see.

S.C. (doubtfully). Humph! Looks beastly now, anyhow. And you've altered all the paths, and
nearly all the beds. I didn't tell you--

G.O.G. (emphatically). No, Sir, you didn't. You give me cart blarnch, you did, and I've done
my level best. The Dook 'ad the same idees at first, but when he comes to know me, he says,
says he, SMUGGINS, you're always right, he says. If you wos to run a reaping-machine through
my horchids, or a traction-engine over my turf, I should know as you wos a-doing of the right
thing--in the long run! Oh, you leave it to me, Sir, and you won't repent it. And--ahem--here's
my little haccount, Sir,--hup to date.

    [Presents dirty piece of blue paper, giving scanty details,
    and a spanking total. Simple Citizen pays, and tries to look
    pleasant.

    SCENE III.

    The Same, six months later. Present, Simple Citizen, and a
    Sympathetic Friend.

Sympathetic Friend. Well, well, it does look a waste, APPLEYARD.

Simple Citizen (purple). A waste! I should think it did. indeed! And to think of the pretty,
green, bowery place it was when I took it! Unprofitable, perhaps, but pleasant. Now it is neither
pleasant nor profitable.

S.F. And all through that rascally ravaging SMUGGINS?

S.C. (furiously). The scoundrel!--the sleek, insinuating, slaughtering scoundrel! He tore up
my paths, he altered my beds, he mutilated my lawns, he stripped my trailers, he hacked my
trees into bare hideousness, all to make work and money for himself and his partner in iniquity,
that nefarious "florist" friend of his. I was a greenhorn, MUMPSON, a juggins, and I let them
fool me to the top of my bent. He cut up the shrubbery into those horrible flat beds, in order
that I might "grow my hown wegerbles," as he phrased it. He got money from me for the best
and most expensive "ashleaf kidneys" and "Prooshian Blues," then planted cheap refuse from
a small greengrocer's. My "ashleaf kidneys" turned out waxy marbles; my Prooshian Blues refused
to pod; I spent--or rather he received--pounds upon my vinery and cucumber frames. My grape-bunches
went mouldy, and I never got a cucumber more than six inches long. His "friend, the florist,"
did, no doubt. He stole my shrubs overnight, and sold 'em back to me next morning. He bled
my maidservants for "beer and 'baccy." In fact, it was the same all round; he had, in every
way, ruined my garden, run me up exorbitant bills, and then, when the day of detection was
imminent--disappeared. If ever I catch sight of that mulberry nose of his, I shall be tempted to--

S.F. (soothingly). Ah, yes, just so. But let's hope that you'll never come across this particular
Grand Old Gardener--or his like--again. (Waggishly.) By Jove, APPLEYARD, no wonder the world
went wrong, seeing that "the first man" was--a Gardener!!!

       *       *       *       *       *

LEARNED BY ART.--"Beasts in Bond Street!" "Sheep in the Salon!" Messrs. DOWDESWELLS have taken
the wind out of the sails of the Agricultural Hall, and Mr. DENOVAN ADAM has given us the opportunity
of seeing a superb collection of Scottish Highland Cattle. Mountain, meadow, moss and moor
have all been laid under contribution. The result is we can have the chance of studying these
hornymental animals without being tossed, and staring at them without being gored. In the same
gallery may be seen a series of pastels of Hampstead Heath, by Mr. HENRY MUHRMAN--a merman
ought to be a sea-painter by rights, but no matter! The poet has told us that, "'Amsted am
the place to ruralise on a summer's day!" The artist convinces us it is the place to "pastelise,"
and he seems to have pastelised to the tune of forty pictures very successfully.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PARS ABOUT PICTURES.

PAR CI--PAR LA!

"A good par here, and a bad par there; here a par, and there a par, and everywhere a par!"
Indeed, as an Irishman would say, it is the Judgment of Pars. Let us look in at the Institute,
and see the Painters in Ile, and no doubt we shall be iley delighted. We go on the pre-private
view day. Not that we are parsimonious, but we prefer to see the pictures without being scrouged.

"The Release" is a puzzler. We have taken stock of Mr. STOCK's picture, and fail to understand
it. Is it LULU or ZAZEL? There seems to have been an explosion, and one person, lightly attired,
is blown up; and another, more warmly clad, is blown down. They will both probably catch cold.
Nothing hazy about Mr. HAYES's pictures. On the contrary, fresh and brilliant--notably, "A
Grey Sunset." If you are subject to mal-de-mer, his seas will make you onaisy. The President,
Sir JAMES LINTON, has only two small pictures, both cleverly painted, but each may be described
as a little LINTON; so let us give him a little hint on the subject; like OLIVER TWIST, we
ask for more. "Too Many Cooks," by BURTON BARBER--a Barber who knows how to dress hair. See
the dogs' coats. Miss ETHEL WRIGHT is not very far wrong in her picture of a fair canoiste,
and Mr. W.L. WYLLIE is both artful and wily in his rendering of a "A Sou' Wester." "An Old
Harbour in Sussex" gives distinct evidence that LEWIS (C.J.) has been moved to the coast, and
it seems to be a move in the right direction. In "The Red Canoe," Mr. ALFRED PARSONS delivers
an eloquent sermon on the joys of life on the Thames.

The Royal Society of British Artists have fewer pictures than usual at their new show. Quality
better than common. Mr. F. BRANGWYN's "Funeral at Sea" is excellent. Mr. R. MACHELL's "Lakshmi,"
not easy to understand. It might be "Lakshmi, or the Lost Bathing-dress." She might certainly
say, "I lacks my costume de bain." "Durham"--good landscape by Mr. YGLESIAS. Mr. NELSON DAWSON
in his "Sunset Breeze," gives us real sea and good seamanship. In "Trying it Over," Mr. LOMAX
has tried it over to some purpose, and has produced a successful little picture of an enthusiastic
flautist. Mr. G.F. WATTS sends "Lord Tennyson." But why in ermine? The Laureate is quite good
enough for us without his Peer's robes. What did HARRY THE EIGHTH say concerning HOLBEIN? Anything
more to see? Of course there is. But what is my text? "Pars about Pictures." And so I pass
about. I mustn't linger, but remain

Yours par-ticularly,

OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLF VICTOR!

  Sir Golf and Sir Tennis are fighting like mad--
    Now Sir Tennis is blown, and Sir Golf's right above him,
  And his face has a look that is weary and sad,
    As he hastily turns to the ladies, who love him,
  But the racket falls from him, he totters, and swirls,
  As he hears them cry, "Golf is the game for the girls!"

         *       *       *       *       *

  The girls crave for freedom, they cannot endure
    To be cramped up at Tennis in courts that are poky,
  And they're all of them certainly, perfectly sure
    That they'll never again touch "that horrible Croquet,"
  Where it's quite on the cards that they play with Papa,
  And where all that goes on is surveyed by Mamma.

  To Golf on the downs for the whole of the day
    Is "so awfully jolly," they keep on asserting,
  With a good-looking fellow to teach you the way,
    And to fill up the time with some innocent flirting,
  And it may be the maiden is wooed and is won,
  Ere the whole of the round is completed and done.

  Henceforward, then, Golf is the game for the fair--
    At home, and abroad, or in pastures Colonial,
  And the shouts of the ladies will quite fill the air
    For the Links that will turn into bonds Matrimonial,
  And for husbands our daughters in future will seek
  With the powerful aid of the putter and cleek!

       *       *       *       *       *

CORRESPONDENCE SPECIAL.--KNOODEL, of Knoodel Court, writes to us:--"Sir,--I have recently come
across the name 'bacteriologist.' Is it a new name for a person who writes ill of another behind
his back? If so, the best remedy for the mischief he causes is a criminal action." [Our advice
to KNOODEL is, "Consult a Solicitor."--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

"CARMEN UP TO DATE AT THE GAIETY."--"Approbation of Miss ALMA STANLEY is praise indeed." The
correct quotation adapted à la fin du Siècle.

       *       *       *       *       *

Tuesday Morning.--Still in Edinburgh, but going home to-night. Just received telegram from
Member for SARK. "Come home at once," he says; "the Peronospora Schleideniana has got at the
onions."

Rather a shock to have news like this flashed upon one with that absence of deliberation that
sometimes marks the telegraph service. But I cannot say I am surprised. I had, indeed, before
leaving, called SARK's attention to what I recognised as the greyish mycelial threads of the
fungus spreading upon the pipes and budding seed-heads. If SARK had steeped the seed in sulphate
of copper before planting it, this wouldn't have happened. It's a pity, for I rather thought
we would make something towards expenses out of that onion-bed. There's no more profitable
crop than your pickling onions if well farmed. I know a man who made £150 an acre out of his
onions. But then he wasn't hampered in his arrangements with a fellow like SARK.

Called on Mr. G. to say good-bye. He was sympathetic about the onion blight, but I could see
that his mind was occupied with other and perhaps equally saddening thoughts.

"I suppose you have been made aware of the intelligence that has reached me through the usual
sources?" he said. "I have had a pretty good time here. I have belaboured the Government from
all points of attack. I think I managed pretty well with the Disestablishment Question. You
don't think, TOBY," he said, with a passing look of deeper apprehension, "that I gave myself
away at all on the matter? The worst of these fellows is that they keep a record of every word
I say, a custom which seriously hampers one in his movements. What I should like, if it were
permitted, would be to come quite fresh to a question year after year, and say upon it exactly
what happened to be convenient, without having before my eyes the certainty that somebody would
dig out what I said on the same subject last year, or five years ago."

I assured him that I thought not much could be made out of his remarks on Disestablishment
Question. In fact it would be difficult to prove that he had said anything at all. Brightened
up at this; but cloud again deepened over his mobile face.

"Yes, perhaps I've done pretty well," he said, with a sigh. "I have steered through a very
difficult position without running ashore; I have had an immense popular reception; I have
stirred up the constituency, and have, if I may say so, supplied with fresh oil the sacred
lamp of Liberalism. Now, just when I was beginning in some modest measure to felicitate myself,
there comes news of a crushing master-stroke devised by the Government. Though I do not disguise
my discomfiture, I would not withhold my tribute of admiration at the brilliancy of the stroke,
of the genius of its conception, and of the completeness with which it has been dealt. I have
been here more than a week, and have delivered four speeches. The Government and their friends
on the platform and in the press affect to sneer at my efforts and their influence. Still,
they feel it is necessary to make a counter-demonstration, and to effectually undo whatever
work I may have accomplished. What course do they adopt? Why, they send down ASHMEAD-BARTLETT.
He was at Dalkeith last night, and, in a single speech, destroyed the effect of my great effort
of Saturday. He will go to West Calder; he will come here; he will follow me step by step with
relentless energy, tearing up, so to speak, the rails I have laid, and which I had hoped would
have safely conducted the Liberal train into the Westminster station. Sic vos non vobis. It
is cruel, it is crushing. If I had only foreseen it, I would have remained at Hawarden, and
you might have averted the calamity that overshadows your Garden."

Quite distressed to see my venerated friend broken down. Bad for him to stop at home and brood
over calamity. Best thing would be change of scene and thought. He had made engagement to-day
to go to Pumpherston and inspect oil and candle works. Better keep it.

"No," said Mr. G., wearily, "oil comforts me not, nor candles either. Now, if it were pork,
it would be different. Few things so interesting as pork. Not from a dietetic point of view,
but regarded historically. As I mentioned to a Correspondent the other day, in the course of
Homeric work I have examined into the use of pork by the ancients. A very curious subject.
I shall make some references to it in the closing paper which I am writing for Good Words on
the Old Testament. I am under the impression that the dangers which lurk beneath the integument
of a leg (or sirloin) of pork, are specially connected with the heat of Southern climates."

Curious to see how rapidly his aspect changed as these thoughts pressed upon his mind. When
I came in, he had been sitting in an arm-chair, with his head resting on his hand, and his
brow painfully wrinkled. He looked quite old--at least seventy. Now he was up, walking about
the room with springy stride, his mind actively engaged in framing theories on the use of pork
by HOMER's contemporaries. If I could only keep him engaged, he would forget the blow that
had descended upon him, and would regain his usual equanimity. A question as to whether he
thought Achilles liked sage with his pork, cunningly led him on to a long disquisition, till,
in a quarter of an hour, he was quite a changed man, and set out with great energy for Pumpherston.

