Redactor's comments: This is the 7-bit ASCII version. The Report is the 1590 de Brys edition
in the Library of Congress. Italics are indicated by bracketed 'quotes'.]

         A Briefe and True Report ... by Thomas Hariot

          A briefe and true report
          of the new found land of Virginia,
          'of the commodities and of the nature and man
          ners of the naturall inhabitants: Discouered by
          the English Colony there seated by' Sir Richard
          Greinuile Knight' 'In the yeere 1585. Which rema
          =ined vnder the gouernment of twelue monethes,
          At the speciall charge and direction of the Honou=
          rable' SIR WALTER RALEIGH Knight, 'lord Warden
          of the stanneries Who therein hath beene fauoured
          and authorised by her' MAIESTIE
          ':and her letters patents:
          This fore booke Is made in English
          By Thomas Hariot; seruant to the abouenamed
          Sir' WALTER, 'a member of the Colony, and there
          imployed in discouering.'

          CVM GRATIA ET PRIVILEGIO CAES.MATIS SPECIALD

          FRANCOFORTI AD MOENVM
          TYPIS IOANNIS WECHELI, SVMTIBVS VERO THEODORI
          DE BRY ANNO CD D XC.
          VENALES REPERIVNTVR IN OFFICINA SIGISMVNDI FEIRABENDII

                              TO THE RIGHT
                            WORTHIE AND HONOV-
                        RABLE, SIR VVALTER RALEGH,
                   KNIGHT, SENESCHAL OF THE DVCHIES OF
      Cornewall and Exeter, and L. Warden of the stannaries in Deuon
               and Cornewall, T.B. wisheth true felicitie.
'SIR, seeing that the parte of the Worlde, which is betwene the FLORIDA
and the Cap BRETON nowe nammed VIRGINIA, to the honneur of yours most
souueraine Layde and Queene ELIZABETZ, hath ben descouuerd by yours
meanes. And great chardges. And that your Collonye hath been theer
established to your great honnor and prayse, and noelesser proffit vnto
the common welth: Yt ys good raison that euery man euertwe
him selfe for to showe the benefit which they haue receue of yt.
Theerfore, for my parte I haue been allwayes Desirous for to make yow
knowe the good will that I haue to remayne still your most humble
saruant. I haue thincke that I cold faynde noe better occasion to
declare yt, then takinge the paines to cott in copper (the most diligent
ye and well that wear in my possible to doe) the Figures which doe
leuelye represent the forme aud maner of the Inhabitants of the sane
countrye with theirs ceremonies, sollemne,, feastes, and the manner and
situation of their Townes of Villages. Addinge vnto euery figure a brief
declaration of the same, to that ende that cuerye man cold the better
vnderstand that which is in liuely represented. Moreouer I haue thincke
that the aforesaid figures wear of greater commendation, If somme
Histoire which traitinge of the commodites and fertillitye of the
rapport which Thomas Hariot hath lattely sett foorth, and haue causse
them booth togither to be printed for to dedicated vnto you, as a thiuge
which by reigtte dooth allreadye apparteyne vnto you. Therfore doe I
creaue that you will accept this little Booke, and take yt In goode
partte. And desiring that fauor that you will receue me in the nomber of
one of your most humble seruantz, besechinge the lord to blese and
further you in all yours good doinges and actions, and allso to
preserue, and keepe you allwayes in good helthe. And so I comitt you
unto the almyhttie, from Franckfort the first of Apprill 1590.'

'Your most humble seruant,'

THEODORVS de BRY. '1586'. and now of late this last yeare of '1587'. There haue bin diuers
and variable reportes with some slaunderous and shamefull speeches bruited abroade by many
that returned from thence. Especially of that discouery which was made by the Colony transported
by Sir Richard Greinuile in the yeare '1585'. being of all the others the most principal and
as yet of most effect, the time of their abode in the countrey beeing a whole yeare, when as
in the other voyage before they staied but sixe weekes; and the others after were onelie for
supply and transportation, nothing more being discouered then had been before. Which reports
haue not done a litle wrong to many that otherwise would have also fauoured & aduentured in
the action, to the honour and benefite of our nation, besides the particular profite and credite
which would redound to them selues the dealers therein; as I hope by the sequele of euents
to the shame of those that haue auouched the contrary shalbe manifest: if you the aduenturers,
fauourers, and welwillers do but either encrease in number, or in opinion continue, or hauing
bin doubtfull renewe your good liking and furtherance to deale therein according to the worthinesse
thereof alreadye found and as you shall vnderstand hereafter to be requisite. Touching which
woorthines through cause of the diuersitie of relations and reportes, manye of your opinions
coulde not bee firme, nor the mindes of some that are well disposed, bee setled in any certaintie.

I haue therefore thought it good beeing one that haue beene in the discouerie and in dealing
with the natuall inhabitantes specially imploied; and hauing therefore seene and knowne more
then the ordinaire: to imparte so much vnto you of the fruites of our labours, as that you
may knowe howe iniuriously the enterprise is slaundered. And that in publike manner at this
present chiefelie for two respectes.

And least that the substance of my relation should be doubtful vnto you, as of others by reason
of their diuersitie: I will first open the cause in a few wordes wherefore they are [a 3] 
so different; referring my selue to your fauourable constructions, and to be adiudged of as
by good consideration you shall finde cause.

Of our companie that returned some for their misdemenour and ill dealing in the countrey, haue
beene there worthily punished; who by reason of their badde natures, haue maliciously not onelie
spoken ill of their Gouernours; but for their sakes slaundered the countrie it selfe. The like
also haue those done which were of their confort.

Some beeing ignorant of the state thereof, nothwithstanding since their returne amongest their
friendes and acquaintance and also others, especially if they were in companie where they might
not be gainesaide; woulde seeme to know so much as no men more; and make no men so great trauailers
as themselues. They stood so much as it maie seeme vppon their credite and reputation that
hauing been a twelue moneth in the countrey, it woulde haue beene a great disgrace vnto them
as they thought, if they coulde not haue saide much wheter it were true or false. Of which
some haue spoken of more then euer they saw or otherwise knew to bee there; othersome haue
not bin ashamed to make absolute deniall of that which although not by the, yet by others is
most certainely ad there pletifully knowne. And othersome make difficulties of those things
they haue no skill of. Because there were not to bee found any English cities, norsuch faire
houses, nor at their owne wish any of their olde accustomed daintie food, nor any soft beds
of downe or fethers: the countrey was to them miserable, & their reports thereof according.

                             THE FIRST PART,
                               OF MARCHAN-
                              TABLE COMMO-
                                 DITIES.

                    'Silke of grasse or grasse Silke.'

THere is a kind of grasse in the countrey vppon the blades where of there groweth very good
silke in forme of a thin glittering skin to bee stript of. Here of if it be planted and ordered
as in Persia, it cannot in reason be otherwise, but that there will rise in shorte time great
profite to the dealers therein; seeing there is so great vse and vent thereof as well in our
countrey as els where. The richnesse of such a commoditie is so well knowne that I neede not
to saye any thing thereof. The inhabitats vfe it very much for the cure of sores and woundes:
there is in diuers places great plentie, and in some places of a blewe sort.

                  'Pitch, Tarre, Rozen, and Turpentine.'

There are those kindes of trees which yeelde them abundantly and great store. [Sassafras.]

                              'Sassafras.'

Sassafras, called by the inhabitantes Winauk, a kinde of wood of most pleasand and sweete smel;
and of most rare vertues in phisick for the cure of many diseases. It is found by experience
to bee farre better and of more vses then the wood which is called Guaiacum, or Lignum vita.
For the description, the manner of vsing and the manifolde vertues thereof, I referre you to
the booke of Monardus, translated and entituled in English, The ioyfull newes from the West Indies.

                                 'Wine.'

There are two kinds of grapes that the soile doth yeeld naturally: the one is small and sowre
of the ordinarie bignesse as ours in England: the other farre greater & of himselfe iushious
sweet. When they are plated and husbandeg as they ought, a principall commoditie of wines by
them may be raised.

                                 'Oyle.'

There are two sortes of Walnuttes both holding oyle, but the one farre more plentifull then
the other. Luzarnes also we haue vnderstading of. although for the time we saw none.

                             'Ciuet cattes.'

In our trauailes, there was founde one to haue beene killed by a saluage or inhabitant: and
in an other place the smell where one or more had lately beene before: whereby we gather besides
then by the relation of the people that there are some in the countrey: good profite will rise
by them.

                                 'Iron.'

In two places of the countrey specially, one about fourescore and the other sixe score miles
from the Fort or place where wee dwelt: wee founde neere the water side the ground to be rockie,
which by the triall of a minerall man, was founde to holde Iron richly. It is founde in manie
places of the countrey else.

                                'Copper.'

A hundred and fiftie miles into the maine in two townes wee founde with the inhabitaunts diuerse
small plates of copper, that had beene made as wee vnderstood, by the inhabitantes that dwell
farther into the countrey: where as they say are mountaines and Riuers that yeelde also whyte
graynes of Mettall, which is to bee deemed Siluer. For confirmation whereof at the time of
our first arriuall in the Countrey, I sawe with some others with mee, two small peeces of siluer
grosly beaten about the weight of a Testrone, hangyng in the eares of a Wiroans or chiefe Lorde
that dwelt about fourescore myles from vs; of whom thorowe enquiry, by the number of dayes
and the way, I learned that it had come to his handes from the same place or neere, where I
after vnderstood the copper was made and the white graynes of mettall founde. The aforesaide
copper wee also founde by triall to holde siluer.

                                'Pearle.'

Sometimes in feeding on muscles wee founde some pearle; but it was our hap to meete with ragges,
or of a pide colour; not hauing yet discouered those [places]  places where wee hearde of better
and more plentie. One of our companie; a man of skill in such matters, had gathered to gether
from among the sauage people aboute fiue thousande: of which number he chose so many as made
a fayre chaine, which for their likenesse and vniformitie in roundnesse, orientnesse, and pidenesse
of may excellent colours, with equalitie in greatnesse, were verie fayer and rare; and had
therefore beene presented to her Maiestie, had wee not by casualtie and through extremity of
a storme, lost them with many things els in comming away from the countrey.

                            'Sweete Gummes.'

Sweete Gummes of diuers kindes and many other Apothecary drugges of which wee will make speciall
mention, when wee shall receiue it from such men of skill in that kynd, that in taking reasonable
paines shall discouer them more particularly then wee haue done; and than now I can makc relation
of, for want of the examples I had prouited and gathered, and are nowe lost. with other thinges
by causualtie before mentioned.

                        'Dyes of diuers kindes.'

There is Shoemake well knowen, and vsed in England for blacke; the seede of an hearbe called
Wasewowr; little small rootes called Chappacor; and the barke of the tree called by the inhabitaunts
Tangomockonomindge: which Dies are for diuers sortes of red: their goodnesse for our English
clothes remayne yet to be proued. The inhabitants vse them onely for the dying of hayre; and
colouring of their faces, aud Mantles made of Deare skinnes; and also for the dying of Rushes
to make artificiall workes withall in their Mattes and Baskettes; hauing no other thing besides
that they account of, apt to vse them for. If they will not proue merchantable there is no
doubt but the Planters there shall finde apte vses for them, as also for other colours which
wee knowe to be there.

                                 'Oade.'

A thing of so great vent and vse amongst English Diers, which cannot bee yeelded sufficiently
in our owne countrey for spare of ground; may bee planted in Virginia, there being ground enough.
The grouth therof need not to be doubted when as in the Ilandes of the Asores it groweth plentifully,
which is in thesame climate. So likewise of Madder.

                              'Suger canes.'

Whe carried thither Suger canes to plant which beeing not so well preserued as was requisit,
& besides the time of the yere being past for their setting when we arriued, wee could not
make that proofe of them as wee desired. Wherebi may grow in reasonable time if the action
be diligently prosecuted, no small commodities in Sugers, Suckets, and Marmalades.

Many other commodities by planting may there also bee raised, which I leaue to your discret
and gentle considerations: and many also may bee there which yet we haue not discouered. Two
more commodities of great value one of certaintie, and the other in hope, not to be planted,
but there to be raised & in short time to be prouided and prepared, I might have specified.
All of them yeelde a very white and sweete flowre: beeing vsed according to his kinde it maketh
a very good bread. Wee made of the same in the countrey some mault, whereof was brued as good
ale as was to bee desired. So likewise by the help of hops therof may bee made as good Beere.
It is a graine of marueilous great increase; of a thousand, fifteene hundred and some two thousand
fold. There are three sortes, of which two are ripe in an eleuen and twelue weekes at the most:
sometimes in ten, after the time they are set, and are then of height in stalke about sixe
or seuen foote. The other sort is ripe in fourteene, and is about ten foote high, of the stalkes
some beare foure heads, some three, some one, and two: euery head cotaining fiue, sixe, or
seue hundred graines within a fewe more or lesse. Of these graines besides bread, the inhabitants
make victuall eyther by parching them; or seething them whole vntill they be broken; or boyling
the floure with water into a pappe. Both the beanes and peaze are ripe in tenne weekes after
they are set. They make them victuall either by boyling them all to pieces into a broth; or
boiling them whole vntill they bee soft and beginne to breake as is vsed in England, eyther
by themselues or mixtly together: Sometime they mingle of the wheate with them. Sometime also
beeing whole soddeu, they bruse or pound them in a morter, & thereof make loaues or lumps of
dowishe bread, which they vse to eat for varietie. Wee our selues, vsed the leaues also for
pothearbes.

There is also another great hearbe in forme of a Marigolde, about sixe foote in height; the
head with the floure is a spanne in breadth. Some take it to bee 'Planta Solis': of the seedes
heereof they make both a kinde of bread and broth. Of the grouth you need not to doubt: for
barlie, oates and peaze, we haue seene proof of, not beeing purposely [b 4]  sowen but fallen
casually in the worst sort of ground, and yet to be as faire as any we haue euer seene here
in England. But of wheat because it was musty and hat taken salt water wee could make no triall:
and of rye we had none. Thus much haue I digressed and I hope not vnnecessarily: nowe will
I returne againe to my course and intreate of that which yet remaineth appertaining to this
Chapter.

And these are all the commodities for sustenance of life that I know and can remember they
vse to husband: all else that followe are founde growing naturally or wilde.

                              'Of Rootes.'

OPENAVK are a kind of roots of round forme, some of the bignes of walnuts, some far greater,
which are found in moist & marish grounds growing many together one by another in ropes, or
as thogh they were fastnened with a string. Being boiled or sodden they are very good meate.

OKEEPENAVK are also of round shape, found in dry grounds: some are [of the]  of the bignes
of a mans head. They are to be eaten as they are taken out of the ground, for by reason of
their drinesse they will neither roste nor seeth. Their tast is not so good as of the former
rootes, notwithstanding for want of bread & somtimes for varietie the inhabitants vse to eate
them with fish or flesh, and in my iudgement they doe as well as the houshold bread made of
rie heere in England.

'Kaishucpenauk' a white kind of roots about the bignes of hen egs & nere of that forme: their
tast was not so good to our seeming as of the other, and therfore their place and manner of
growing not so much cared for by vs: the inhabitats notwithstanding vsed to boile & eate many.
And we know not anie thing to the cotrary but that it maie be of the same kind. These roots
grow manie together in great clusters and doe bring foorth a brier stalke, but the leafe in
shape far vnlike; which beeing supported by the trees it groweth neerest vnto, wil reach or
climbe to the top of the highest. This 'Tsinaw' is not of that sort which by some was caused
to be brought into England for the 'China roote', for it was discouered since, and is in vfe
as is aforesaide: but that which was brought hither is not yet knowne neither by vs nor by
the inhabitants to serue for any vse or purpose; although the rootes in shape are very like.

'Coscushaw', some of our company tooke to bee that kinde of roote which the Spaniards in the
West Indies call 'Cassauy', whereupon also many called it by that name: it groweth in very
muddie pooles and moist groundes. Being dressed according to the countrey maner, it maketh
a good bread, and also a good sponemeate, and is vsed very much by the inhabitants: The iuice
of this root is poison, and therefore heede must be taken before any thing be made therewithal:
Either the rootes must bee first sliced and dried in the Sunne, or by the fire, and then being
pounded into floure wil make good bread: or els while they are greene they are to bee pared,
cut into pieces and stampt; loues of the same to be laid neere or ouer the fire vntill it be
soure, and then being well pounded againe, bread, or sponemeate very good in taste, and holsome
may be made thereof.

'Habascon' is a roote of hoat taste almost of the forme and bignesse of a Parseneepe, of it
selfe it is no victuall, but onely a helpe beeing boiled together with other meates.

There are also 'Leekes' differeing little from ours in England that grow in many places of
the countrey, of which, when we came in places where, wee gathered and eate many, but the naturall
inhabitants neuer.

                              'Of Fruites.'

CHESTNVTS, there are in diuers places great store: some they vse to eate rawe, some they stampe
and boile to make spoonemeate, and with some being sodden they make such a manner of dowebread
as they vfe of their beanes before mentioned.

WALNVTS: There are two kindes of Walnuts, and of then infinit store: In many places where very
great woods for many miles together the third part of trees are walnuttrees. The one kind is
of the same taste and forme or litle differing from ours of England, but that they are harder
and thicker shelled: the other is greater and hath a verie ragged and harde shell: but the
kernell great, verie oylie and sweete.

STRABERIES there are as good & as great as those which we haue in our English gardens.

MVLBERIES, Applecrabs, Hurts or Hurtleberies, such as wee haue in England. [In]

In our trauailes in some places wee founde wilde peaze like vnto ours in England but that they
were lesse, which are also good meate.

             'Of a kinde of fruite or berrie in the forme of
                                Acornes.'

There is a kind of berrie or acorne, of which there are fiue sorts that grow on seuerall kinds
of trees; the one is called 'Sagatemener', the second 'Osamener', the third 'Pummuckoner'.
These be also the three kinds of which, I said before, the inhabitants vsed to make sweet oyle.

An other sort is called 'Sapummener' which being boiled or parched doth eate and taste like
vnto chestnuts. They sometime also make bread of this sort.

The fifth sort is called 'Mangummenauk', and is the acorne of their kind of oake, the which
beeing dried after the maner of the first sortes, and afterward watered they boile them, &
their seruants or sometime the chiefe theselues, either for variety or for want of bread, doe
eate them with their fish or flesh. They are taken comonlie in this sort.

I haue the names of eight & twenty seuerall sortes of beasts which I haue heard of to be here
and there dispersed in the countrie, especially in the maine: of which there are only twelue
kinds that we haue yet discouered, & of those that be good meat we know only them before mentioned.
The inhabitats somtime kil the 'Lyon' & eat him: & we somtime as they came to our hands of
their 'Wolues' or 'woluish Dogges', which I haue not set downe for good meat, least that some
woulde vnderstand my iudgement therin to be more simple than needeth, although I could alleage
the difference in taste of those kindes from ours, which by some of our company haue been experimented
in both. Of al sortes of foule I haue the names in the countrie language of fourescore and
sixe of which number besides those that be named, we haue taken, eaten, & haue the pictures
as they were there drawne with the names of the inhabitaunts of seuerall strange sortes of
water foule eight, and seuenteene kindes more of land foul, although wee haue seen and eaten
of many more, which for want of leasure there for the purpose coulde not bee pictured: and
after wee are better furnished and stored vpon further discouery, with their strange beastes,
fishe, trees, plants, and hearbes, they shall bee also published.

There are also 'Parats', 'Faulcons', & 'Marlin haukes', which although with vs they bee not
vsed for meate, yet for other causes I thought good to mention.

The inhabitants vse to take then two maner of wayes, the one is by a kind of wear made of reedes
which in that countrey are very strong. The other way which is more strange, is with poles
make sharpe at one end, by shooting them into the fish after the maner as Irishmen cast dartes;
either as they are rowing in their boates or els as they are wading in the shallowes for the
purpose. [There]

There are also in many places plentie of these kindes which follow.

'Sea crabbes', such as we haue in England.

'Oystres', some very great, and some small; some rounde and some of a long shape: They are
founde both in salt water and brackish, and those that we had out of salt water are far better
than the other as in our owne countrey.

Also 'Muscles, Scalopes, Periwinkles,' and 'Creuises'.

Seekanauk, a kind of crustie shell fishe which is good meate, about a foote in breadth, hauing
a crustie tayle, many legges like a crab; and her eyes in her backe. They are founde in shallowes
of salt waters; and sometime on the shoare.

There are many 'Tortoyses' both of lande and sea kinde, their backes & bellies are shelled
very thicke; their head, feete, and taile, which are in appearance, seeme ougly as though they
were members of a serpent or venemous: but notwithstanding they are very good meate, as also
their egges. Some haue bene founde of a yard in bredth and better.

                              THE THIRD AND
                                LAST PART,
                              OF SVCH OTHER
                          THINGES AS IS BE HOO-
             full for those which shall plant and inhabit to
                know of; with a description of the nature
                      and manners of the people of
                              the countrey.

                  'Of commodities for building and other
                            necessary uses.'

THose other things which I am more to make rehearsall of, are such as concerne building, and
other mechanicall necessarie vses; as diuers sortes of trees for house & ship timber, and other
vses els: Also lime, stone, and brick, least that being not mentioned some might haue bene
doubted of, or by some that are malicious reported the contrary.

'Cedar', a sweet wood good for seelings, Chests, Boxes, Bedsteedes, Lutes, Virginals, and many
things els, as I haue also said before. For if euerie housholde haue one or two to cracke Nuttes,
grinde shelles, whet copper, and sometimes other stones for hatchets, they haue enough: neither
vse they any digging, but onely for graues about three foote deepe: and therefore no maruaile
that they know neither Quarries, nor lime stones, which both may bee in places neerer than
they wot of.

Some religion they haue alreadie, which although it be farre from the truth, yet beyng as it
is, there is hope it may bee the easier and sooner reformed.

They beleeue that there are many Gods which they call 'Mantoac', but of different sortes and
degrees; one onely chiefe and great God, which hath bene from all eternitie. First they say
were made waters, out of which by the gods was made all diuersitie of creatures that are visible
or inuisible.

For mankind they say a woman was made first, which by the woorking of one of the goddes, conceiued
and brought foorth children: And in such sort they say they had their beginning.

And this is the summe of their religion, which I learned by hauing special familiarity [miliarity]
with some of their priestes.

Manie times and in euery towne where I came, according as I was able, I made declaration of
the contentes of the Bible; that therein was set foorth the true and onelie GOD, and his mightie
woorkes, that therein was contayned the true doctrine of saluation through Christ, which manie
particularities of Miracles and chiefe poyntes of religion, as I was able then to vtter, and
thought fitte for the time.

On a time also when their corne began to wither by reason of a drouth which happened extraordinarily,
fearing that it had come to passe by reason that in  some thing they had displeased vs, many
woulde come to vs & desire vs to praie to our God of England, that he would perserue their
corne, promising that when it was ripe we also should be partakers of the fruite.

There could at no time happen any strange sicknesse, losses, hurtes, or any other crosse vnto
them, but that they would impute to vs the cause or meanes therof for offending or not pleasing vs.

One other rare and strange accident, leauing others, will I mention before I ende, which mooued
the whole countrey that either knew or hearde of vs, to haue vs in wonderfull admiration.

Insomuch that when some of the inhabitantes which were our friends & especially the 'Wiroans
Wingina' had obserued such effects in foure or fiue towns to follow their wicked practises,
they were preswaded that it was the worke of our God through our meanes, and that wee by him
might kil and slai whom we would without weapons and not come neere them.

Whose entreaties although wee shewed that they were vngodlie, affirming that our God would
not subiect him selfe to anie such praiers and requestes of me: that in deede all thinges haue
beene and were to be done according to his good pleasure as he had ordained: ad that we to
shew ourselues his true seruats ought rather to make petition for the contrarie, that they
with them might liue together with vs, bee made partakers of his truth & serue him in righteousnes;
but notwitstanding in such sort, that wee referre that as all other thinges, to bee done according
to his diuine will & pleasure, ad as by his wisedome he had ordained to be best.

This maruelous accident in all the countrie wrought so strange opinions of vs, that some people
could not tel whether to think vs gods or men, and the rather because that all the space of
their sicknesse, there was no man of ours knowne to die, or that was specially sicke: they
noted also that we had no women amongst vs, neither that we did care for any of theirs.

Some therefore were of opinion that wee were not borne of women, and therefore not mortall,
but that wee were men of an old generation many yeeres past then risen againe to immortalitie.

Some also thought that we shot them ourselues out of our pieces from the place where we dwelt,
and killed the people in any such towne that had offended vs as we listed, how farre distant
from vs soeuer it were.

And other some saide that it was the speciall woorke of God for our sakes, as wee our selues
haue cause in some sorte to thinke no lesse, whatsoeuer some doe or maie imagine to the contrarie,
specially some Astrologers knowing of the Eclipse of the Sunne which wee saw the same yeere
before in our voyage thytherward, which vnto them appeared very terrible. And also of a Comet
which beganne to appeare but a few daies before the beginning of the said sicknesse. Some want
also wee had of clothes. Furthermore, in all our trauailes which were most speciall and often
in the time of winter, our lodging was in the open aire vpon the grounde. For all foure especially
three were feeble, weake, and sickly persons before euer they came thither, and those that
knewe them much marueyled that they liued so long beeing in that case, or had aduentured to
trauaile.

                                F I N I S.

