AND EDITED BY ARTHUR GALTON.

CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

THE ANNALS, BOOK I

THE ANNALS, BOOK II

THE ANNALS, BOOK III

THE ANNALS, BOOK IV

THE ANNALS, BOOK V

THE ANNALS, BOOK VI

A TREATISE OF THE SITUATION, CUSTOMS, AND PEOPLE OF GERMANY

THE LIFE OF AGRICOLA; WITH AN ACCOUNT OF THE SITUATION, CLIMATE, AND PEOPLE OF BRITAIN

INTRODUCTION

"I am going to offer to the publick the Translation of a work, which, for wisdom and force,
is in higher fame and consideration, than almost any other that has yet appeared amongst men:"
it is in this way, that Thomas Gordon begins The Discourses, which he has inserted into his
rendering of Tacitus; and I can find none better to introduce this volume, which my readers
owe to Gordon's affectionate and laborious devotion. Caius Cornelius Tacitus, the Historian,
was living under those Emperors, who reigned from the year 54 to the year 117, of the Christian
era; but the place and the date of his birth are alike uncertain, and the time of his death
is not accurately known. He was a friend of the younger Pliny, who was born in the year 61;
and, it is possible, they were about the same age. Some of Pliny's letters were written to
Tacitus: the most famous, describes that eruption of Mount Vesuvius, which caused the death
of old Pliny, and overwhelmed the cities of Pompeii and of Herculaneum. The public life of
Tacitus began under Vespasian; and, therefore, he must have witnessed some part of the reign
of Nero: and we read in him, too, that he was alive after the accession of the Emperor Trajan.
In the year 77, Julius Agricola, then Consul, betrothed his daughter to Tacitus; and they were
married in the following year. In 88, Tacitus was Praetor; and at the Secular Games of Domitian,
he was one of the Quindecimviri: these were sad and solemn officers, guardians of the Sibylline
Verse; and intercessors for the Roman People, during their grave centenaries of praise and worship.

  Quaeque Aventinum tenet Algidumque,
  Quindecim Diana preces virorum
  Curet; et vobis pueorum amicas
            Applicet aures.

From a passage in "The Life of Agricola," we may believe that Tacitus attended in the Senate;
for he accuses himself as one of that frightened assembly, which was an unwilling participator
in the cruelties of Domitian. In the year 97, when the Consul Virginius Rufus died, Tacitus'
was made Consul Suffectus; and he delivered the funeral oration of his predecessor: Pliny says,
that "it completed the good fortune of Rufus, to have his panegyric spoken by so eloquent a
man." From this, and from other sayings, we learn that Tacitus was a famous advocate; and his
"Dialogue about Illustrious Orators" bears witness to his admirable taste, and to his practical
knowledge of Roman eloquence: of his own orations, however, not a single fragment has been
left. We know not, whether Tacitus had children; but the Emperor Tacitus, who reigned in 275,
traced his genealogy to the Historian. This Emperor gave orders, that the writings of Tacitus
should be placed in all the public libraries; and that ten copies should be taken annually,
at the public charge. Notwithstanding the Imperial anxiety, a valuable part of Tacitus is lost:
indeed we might argue, from the solicitude of the Emperor, as well as from his own "distinction,"
that Tacitus could not be generally popular; and, in the sixteenth century, a great portion
of him was reduced to the single manuscript, which lay hidden within a German monastery. Of
his literary works, five remain; some fairly complete, the rest in fragments. Complete, are
"The Life of Julius Agricola," "The Dialogue on Orators," and "The Account of Germany": these
are, unfortunately, the minor works of Tacitus. His larger works are "The History," and "The
Annals." "The History" extended from the second Consulship of Galba, in the year 69, to the
murder of Domitian, in the year 96; and Tacitus desired to write the happy times of Nerva,
and of Trajan: we are ignorant, whether infirmity or death prevented his design. Of "The History,"
only four books have been preserved; and they contain the events of a single year: a year,
it is true, which, saw three civil wars, and four Emperors destroyed; a year of crime, and
accidents, and prodigies: there are few sentences more powerful, than Tacitus' enumeration
of these calamities, in the opening chapters. The fifth book is imperfect; it is of more than
common interest to some people, because Tacitus mentions the siege of Jerusalem by Titus; though
what he says about the Chosen People, here and elsewhere, cannot be satisfactory to them nor
gratifying to their admirers. With this fragment, about revolts in the provinces of Gaul and
Syria, "The History" ends. "The Annals" begin with the death of Augustus, in the year 14; and
they were continued until the death of Nero, in 68. The reign of Tiberius is nearly perfect,
though the fall of Sejanus is missing out of it. The whole of Caligula, the beginning of Claudius,
and the end of Nero, have been destroyed: to those, who know the style of Tacitus and the lives
and genius of Caligula and Nero, the loss is irreparable; and the admirers of Juvenal must
always regret, that from the hand of Tacitus we have only the closing scene, and not the golden
prime, of Messalina.

The works of Tacitus are too great for a Camelot volume; and, therefore, I have undertaken
a selection of them. I give entire, "The Account of Germany" and "The Life of Agricola": these
works are entertaining, and should have a particular interest for English readers. I have added
to them, the greater portion of the first six books of "The Annals"; and I have endeavoured
so to guide my choice, that it shall present the history of Tiberius. In this my volume, the
chapters are not numbered: for the omission, I am not responsible; and I can only lament, what
I may not control. But scholars, who know their Tacitus, will perceive what I have left out;
and to those others, who are not familiar with him, the omission can be no affront. I would
say briefly, that I have omitted some chapters, which describe criminal events and legal tragedies
in Rome: but of these, I have retained every chapter, which preserves an action or a saying
of Tiberius; and what I have inserted is a sufficient specimen of the remainder. I have omitted
many chapters, which are occupied with wearisome disputes between the Royal Houses of Parthia
and Armenia: and I have spared my readers the history of Tacfarinas, an obscure and tedious
rebel among the Moors; upon whose intricate proceedings Tacitus appears to have relied, when
he was at a loss for better material. To reject any part of Tacitus, is a painful duty; because
the whole of him is good and valuable: but I trust, that I have maintained the unity of my
selection, by remembering that it is to be an history of Tiberius.

Tiberius Claudius Nero Caesar, the third master of the Roman world, derived his origin, by
either parent, from the Claudian race; the proudest family, and one of the most noble and illustrious,
in the ancient Commonwealth: the pages of Livy exhibit the generosity, the heroism, and the
disasters, of the Claudii; who were of unequal fortune indeed, but always magnificent, in the
various events of peace and war. Suetonius enumerates, among their ancestral honours, twenty-eight
Consulships, five Dictators, seven Censorial commissions, and seven triumphs: their cognomen
of Nero, he says, means in the Sabine tongue "vigorous and bold," fortis et strenuus; and the
long history of the Claudian House does not belie their gallant name. Immediately after the
birth of Tiberius, or perhaps before it, his mother Livia was divorced from Claudius, and married
by Augustus: the Empress is revealed mysteriously and almost as a divine being, in the progress
of "The Annals." The Emperor adopted the offspring of Claudius: among the Romans, these legal
adoptions were as valid as descent by blood; and Tiberius was brought up to be the son of Caesar.
His natural parts were improved and strengthened, by the training of the Forum and the camp.
Tiberius became a good orator; and he gained victory and reputation, in his wars against the
savages of Germany and Dalmatia: but his peculiar talent was for literature; in this, "he was
a great purist, and affected a wonderful precision about his words." He composed some Greek
poems, and a Latin Elegy upon Lucius Caesar: he also wrote an account of his own life, an Apologia;
a volume, which the Emperor Domitian was never tired of reading. But the favourite pursuit
of Tiberius was Greek divinity; like some of the mediaeval Doctors, he frequented the by-ways
of religion, and amused his leisure with the more difficult problems in theology: "Who was
Hecuba's mother?" "What poetry the Sirens chaunted?" "What was Achilles' name, when he lay
hid among the women?" The writings of Tiberius have all perished; and in these days, we have
only too much cause to regret, that nothing of his "precision" has come down to us. The battles
of Tiberius are celebrated in the Odes of Horace: one of the Epistles is addressed to him;
and in another, written to Julius Florus, an officer with Tiberius, Horace enquires about the
learned occupations of the Imperial cohort.

  Quid studiosa Cohors operum struit?  Hoc quoque curo.

It was from his commerce with the Ancients, as I always think, that George Buchanan derived
his opinion, strange to modern ears, that "a great commander must of necessity have all the
talents of an author." Velleius Paterculus, who served with Tiberius in his campaigns, tells
us of his firm discipline, and of his kindness to the soldiers.

The Caesars Caius and Lucius, grandsons of Augustus, Marcellus his nephew, and Drusus the brother
of Tiberius, all died: they died young, rich in promise, the darlings of the Roman People;
"Breves et infaustos Populi Romani amores;" and thus, in the procession of events, Tiberius
became the heir. "The Annals" open with his accession, and Tacitus has narrated the vicissitudes
of his reign. Velleius Paterculus has written its happier aspects: he describes how the "Pax
Augusta," the "Roman Peace," delivered every quarter of the world from violence. He celebrates
the return of Justice and prosperity, of order, of mild and equable taxation, of military discipline
and magisterial authority. It is like the Saturnian Reign, which Virgil sings in the Eclogue
"Pollio."

Augustus was his great example; "he not only called him, but considered him, divine;" "non
appelavit eum, sed facit Deum." The Latin of Paterculus is here so elegant and happy, that,
for the pleasure of the learned, I transcribe it: for others, I have already given something
of the sense. "Revocata in forum fides; submota e foro seditio, ambitio campo, discordia curia:
sepultaeque ac situ obsitae, justitia, aequitas, industria, civitati, redditae; accessit magistratibus
auctoritas, senatui majestas, judiciis gravitas; compressa theatralis seditio; recte faciendi,
omnibus aut incussa voluntas aut imposita necessitas. Honorantur recta, prava puniuntur. Suspicit
potentem humilis, non timet. Antecedit, non contemnit, humiliorem potens. Quando annona moderatior?
Quando pax laetior? Diffusa in Orientis Occidentisque tractus, quidquid meridiano aut septentrione
finitur, Pax Augusta, per omnes terrarum orbis angulos metu servat immunes. Fortuita non civium
tantummodo, sed Urbium damna, Principis munificentia vindicat. Restitutae urbes Asiae: vindictae
ab injuriis magistratuum provinciae. Honor dignis paratissimus: poena in malos sera, sed aliqua.
Superatur aequitate gratia, ambitio virtute: nam facere recte cives suos, Princeps optimus
faciendo docet; cumque sit imperio maximus, exemplo major est."

Tiberius reigned from the year 14, to the year 37. He died in the villa of Lucullus, and he
was buried in the mausoleum of the Caesars. The manner of his death is variously related: Tacitus
gives one account; Suetonius, another. According to the last writer, he died like George II.,
alone, having just risen from his bed; and he was thus found by his attendants: "Seneca cum
scribit subito vocatis ministris, ac nemine respondente, consurrexisse; nec procul a lectulo,
deficientibus viribus, concidisse." Tiberius was tall, and beautiful. Suetonius tells us of
his great eyes, which could see in the dark; of his broad shoulders, his martial bearing, and
the fine proportion of his limbs: he describes, too, the unusual strength of his hands and
fingers, especially of the left hand. His health was good; because, from his thirtieth year,
he was his own physician. "Valetudine prosperrima usus est, tempore quidem principatus paene
toto prope illesa; quamvis a trigesimo aetatis anno arbitratu eam suo rexerit, sine adjutamento
consiliove medicorum." The Emperor Julian describes him "severe and grim; with a statesman's
care, and a soldier's frankness, curiously mingled:" this was in his old age.

  Down the pale cheek, long lines of shadow slope;
  Which years, and curious thought, and suffering give.

At Rome, is a sculpture of Tiberius; he is represented young, seated, crowned with rays, exceedingly
handsome and majestic: if the figure were not known to be a Caesar, the beholder would say
it was a God.

There is another personage in "The Annals," whose history there is mutilated, and perhaps dissembled;
of whose character my readers may like to know something more, than Tacitus has told them:
I mean Sejanus, a man always to be remembered; because whatever judgment we may form about
his political career, and on this question the authorities are divided, yet it is admitted
by them all, that he introduced those reforms among the Praetorian Cohorts, which made them
for a long time, proprietors of the throne, and the disposers of the Imperial office. To this
minister, Paterculus attributes as many virtues as he has bestowed upon Tiberius: "a man grave
and courteous," he says, "with 'a fine old-fashioned grace'; leisurely in his ways, retiring,
modest; appearing to be careless, and therefore gaining all his ends; outwardly polite and
quiet, but an eager soul, wary, inscrutable, and vigilant." Whatever he may have been in reality,
he was at one time valued by Tiberius. I would summon out of "The Annals," that episode of
Tiberius imprisoned within the falling cave, and shielded by Sejanus from the descending roof.
"Coelo Musa beat:" Sejanus has propitiated no Muse; and although something more, than the "invida
taciturnitas" of the poet, lies heavy upon his reputation, he shall find no apologist in me.
But over against the hard words of Tacitus, it is only fair to place the commendations of Paterculus,
and even Tacitus remarks, that after the fall of Sejanus, Tiberius became worse; like Henry
VIII., after the fall of Wolsey. Livia and Sejanus are said by Tacitus, to have restrained
the worst passions of the Emperor. The two best authorities contradict one another; they differ,
as much as our political organs differ, about the characters of living statesmen: and who are
we, to decide absolutely, from a distance of two thousand years, at our mere caprice, and generally
without sufficient evidence, that one ancient writer is correct; and another, dishonest or
mistaken? This is only less absurd, than to prefer the groping style and thoughts of a modern
pedant, usually a German as well, to the clear words of an old writer, who may be the sole
remaining authority for the statements we presume to question; or for those very facts, upon
which our reasonings depend. And how easy it is to misunderstand what we read in ancient histories,
to be deceived by the plainest records, or to put a sinister interpretation upon events, which
in their own time were passed over in silence or officially explained as harmless! Let me take
an illustration, of what I mean, from something recent. Every one must remember the last hours
of the Emperor Frederick: the avenues to his palace infested by armed men; the gloom and secrecy
within; without, an impatient heir, and the posting to and fro of messengers. We must own,
that the ceremonials of the Prussian Court departed in a certain measure from the ordinary
mild usage of humanity; but we attributed this to nothing more, than the excitement of a youthful
Emperor, or the irrepressible agitation of German officials. But if these events should find
a place in history, or if the annals of the Kings of Prussia should be judged worth reading
by a distant Age; who could blame an historian for saying, that these precautions were not
required for the peaceful and innocent devolution of the crown from a father to his son. Would
not our historian be justified, if he referred to the tumults and intrigues of a Praetorian
election; if he compared these events to the darkest pages in Suetonius, or reminded his readers
of the most criminal narratives in the authors of the "Augustan History"? From Sejanus and
the Emperor William, I return once more to Tiberius; from the present Kaiser, to a genuine Caesar.

It is not my purpose here to abridge Tacitus, to mangle his translator, nor to try and say
what is better said in the body of the volume: but when my readers have made themselves acquainted
with Tiberius, they may be glad to find some discussion about him, as he is presented to us
in "The Annals"; and among all the personages of history, I doubt if there be a more various
or more debated character. Mr. Matthew Arnold thus describes him:

  Cruel, but composed and bland,
  Dumb, inscrutable and grand;
  So Tiberius might have sat,
  Had Tiberius been a cat.

And these verses express the popular belief, with great felicity: I must leave my readers,
to make their own final judgment for themselves. Whether Tacitus will have helped them to a
decision, I cannot guess: he seems to me, to deepen the mystery of Tiberius. At a first reading,
and upon the surface, he is hostile to the Emperor; there is no doubt, that he himself remained
hostile, and that he wished his readers to take away a very bad impression: but, as we become
familiar with his pages, as we ponder his words and compare his utterances, we begin to suspect
our previous judgment; another impression steals upon us, and a second, and a third, until
there grows imperceptibly within us a vision of something different. Out of these dim and floating
visions, a clearer image is gradually formed, with lineaments and features; and, at length,
a new Tiberius is created within our minds: just as we may have seen a portrait emerge under
the artist's hand, from the intricate and scattered lines upon an easel. Then it dawns upon
us, that, after all, Tacitus was not really an intimate at Capri; that he never received the
secret confidences of Tiberius, nor attended upon his diversions. And at last it is borne in
upon us, as we read, that, if we put aside rumours and uncertain gossip, whatever Tiberius
does and says is unusually fine: but that Tacitus is not satisfied with recording words and
actions; that he supplies motives to them, and then passes judgment upon his own assumptions:
that the evidence for the murder of Germanicus, for instance, would hardly be accepted in a
court of law; and that if Piso were there found guilty, the Emperor could not be touched. At
any rate, we find it stated in "The Annals," that "Tiberius by the temptations of money was
incorruptible;" and he refused the legacies of strangers, or of those who had natural heirs.
"He wished to restore the people to severer manners," like many sovereigns; unlike the most
of them, "in his own household, he observed the ancient parsimony." Besides the "severa paupertas"
of Camillus and Fabricius, he had something of their primitive integrity; and he declined,
with scorn, to be an accomplice in the proposed assassination of Arminius: "non fraude neque
occultis, sed palam et armatum, Populum Romanum hostes suos ulcisci." He protected magistrates
and poor suitors, against the nobles. He refused to add to the public burdens, by pensioning
needy Senators: but he was charitable to poor debtors; and lavish to the people, whether Romans
or Provincials, in times of calamity and want. Not least admirable was his quiet dignity, in
periods of disturbance and of panic: he refused to hurry to the mutinous legions, or to a mean
rebellion in Gaul; and he condescended to reason excellently about his behaviour, when his
people were sane enough to listen. He was both sensible and modest: he restrained the worship
of Augustus, "lest through being too common it should be turned into an idle ceremony;" he
refused the worship of himself, except in one temple dedicated equally to the Senate and to
the Emperor. Tiberius could be pathetic, too: "I bewail my son, and ever shall bewail him,"
he says of Germanicus; and again, "Eloquence is not measured by fortune, and it is a sufficient
honour, if he be ranked among the ancient orators." "Princes are mortal;" he says again, "the
Commonwealth, eternal." Then his wit, how fine it was; how quick his humour: when he answered
the tardy condolences from Troy, by lamenting the death of Hector: when he advised an eager
candidate, "not to embarrass his eloquence by impetuosity;" when he said of another, a low,
conceited person, "he gives himself the airs of a dozen ancestors," "videtur mihi ex se natus:"
when he muttered in the Senate, "O homines ad servitutem paratos:" when he refused to become
a persecutor; "It would be much better, if the Gods were allowed to manage their own affairs,"
"Deorum injurias Dis curae." In all this; in his leisured ways, in his dislike of parade and
ceremonial, in his mockery of flatterers and venal "patriots"; how like to Charles II., "the
last King of England who was a man of parts." And no one will deny "parts" to Tiberius; he
was equal to the burden of Imperial cares: the latest researches have discovered, that his
provincial administration was most excellent; and even Tacitus admits, that his choice of magistrates
"could not have been better." He says, in another passage, "The Emperor's domains throughout
Italy, were thin; the behaviour of his slaves modest; the freed-men, who managed his house,
few; and, in his disputes with particulars, the courts were open and the law equal." This resembles
the account of Antoninus Pius, by Marcus Aurelius; and it is for this modesty, this careful
separation between private and public affairs, that Tacitus has praised Agricola. I am well
contented, with the virtues of the Antonines; but there are those, who go beyond. I have seen
a book entitled "The History of that Inimitable Monarch Tiberius, who in the xiv year of his
Reign requested the Senate to permit the worship of Jesus Christ; and who suppressed all Opposition
to it." In this learned volume, it is proved out of the Ancients, that Tiberius was the most
perfect of all sovereigns; and he is shown to be nothing less than the forerunner of Saint
Peter, the first Apostle and the nursing-father of the Christian Church. The author was a Cambridge
divine, and one of their Professors of mathematics: "a science," Goldsmith says, "to which
the meanest intellects are equal."

Upon the other hand, we have to consider that view of Tiberius, which is thus shown by Milton;

  This Emperor hath no son, and now is old;
  Old and lascivious: and from Rome retired
  To Capreae, an island small but strong,
  On the Campanian shore; with purpose there,
  His horrid lusts in private to enjoy.

This theme is enlarged by Suetonius, and evidently enjoyed: he represents Tiberius, as addicted
to every established form of vice; and as the inventor of new names, new modes, and a new convenience,
for unheard-of immoralities. These propensities of the Emperor are handled by Tacitus with
more discretion, though he does not conceal them. I wish neither to condemn nor to condone
Tiberius: I desire, if it be possible, to see him as he is; and whether he be good or bad,
he is very interesting. I have drawn attention to what is good in "The Annals," because Tacitus
leans with all his weight upon the bad; and either explains away what is favourable, or passes
over it with too light a stroke. At the end, I must conclude, as I began, that the character
of Tiberius is a mystery. It is a commonplace, that no man is entirely good nor entirely evil;
but the histories of Tiberius are too contradictory, to be thus dismissed by a platitude. It
is not easy to harmonise Paterculus with Suetonius: it is impossible to reconcile Tacitus with
himself; or to combine the strong, benevolent ruler with the Minotaur of Capri. The admirers
of an almost perfect prose, must be familiar with a story, which is not the highest effort
of that prose: they will remember a certain man with a double nature, like all of us; but,
unlike us, able to separate his natures, and to personate at will his good or evil genius.
Tiberius was fond of magic, and of the curious arts: it may be, that he commanded the secrets
of which Mr. Stevenson has dreamed!

The readers of "The Annals" have seen enough of blood, of crime, and of Tiberius; and I would
now engage their attention upon a more pleasing aspect of Imperial affairs: I wish to speak
about the Empire itself; about its origin, its form, its history: and, if my powers were equal
to the task, I would sketch a model Emperor; Marcus Aurelius, or the elder Antonine. Gibbon
has described the limits of the Roman Empire; which "comprised the fairest part of the earth,
and the most civilised portion of mankind." It was over this extensive monarchy, that Caesar
reigned; by the providence of Caesar, was the whole defended and administered.

The frontiers of the Empire, and its richest provinces, had been obtained for the most part
in the long wars of the Republic. The conquest of Gaul, and the establishment of the Empire,
was achieved by Julius Caesar; and to him, the civilised world is indebted for that majestic
"Roman Peace," under which it lived and prospered for nearly nineteen centuries: the Eastern
Empire was maintained in Constantinople, until 1453; and the Empire of the West continued,
though in waning splendour, until the last Caesar abdicated his throne at the order of Napoleon.
The nations of modern Europe were developed out of the ruin of Caesar's Empire; and from that,
the more civilised among them have obtained the politer share of their laws, their institutions,
and their language: and to Caesar, we are indebted for those inestimable treasures of antiquity,
which the Roman Empire and the Roman Church have preserved from the barbarians, and have handed
on for the delight and the instruction of modern times. There are those, who can perceive in
Caesar nothing but a demagogue, and a tyrant; and in the regeneration of the Commonwealth,
nothing but a vulgar crime: among these, I am sorry to inscribe the name of Thomas Gordon.
The supporters of this view are generally misled, by the specious allurements of the term "Republic."
Tiberius, it may be, was not a perfect ruler, and other sovereigns were even more ferocious;
but the excesses of the most reckless Emperor are hardly to be compared to the wholesale massacres
and spoliations, which attended the last agonies of the expiring Commonwealth. After the Macedonian
and Asiatic wars, we find a turbulent and servile crowd, instead of the old families and tribes
of Roman citizens; instead of allies, oppressed and plundered provinces; instead of the heroes
of the young Republic, a set of worn-out, lewd, and greedy nobles. By these, the spoils of
the world were appropriated, and its government abused: Caesar gave the helpless peoples a
legal sovereign, and preserved them from the lawless tyranny of a thousand masters. He narrates
himself, that "he found the Romans enslaved by a faction, and he restored their liberty:" "Caesar
interpellat; ut Populum Romanum, paucorum factione oppressum, in libertatem vindicat." The
march of Caesar into Italy was a triumphal progress; and there can be no doubt, that the common
people received him gladly. Again he says, "Nihil esse Rempublicam; appellationem modo, sine
corpore et specie;" "The Republic is nothing but an empty name, a phantom and a shadow." That
Caesar should have seen this, is the highest evidence of his genius: that Cicero did not see
it, is to himself, and to his country, the great misfortune of his career; and to his admirers,
one of the most melancholy events in Roman history. The opinions of Tacitus were not far removed
from the opinions of Cicero, but they were modified by what he saw of Nerva and of Trajan:
he tells us, how Agricola looked forward to the blessings of a virtuous Prince; and his own
thoughts and writings would have been other, than they are, had he witnessed the blameless
monarchy of Hadrian and the Antonines. The victims of a bad Emperor were taken usually from
among the nobles; many of them were little better, than their destroyer; and his murders were
confined, almost invariably, within the walls of Rome: but the benefits of the Imperial system
were extended into all the provinces; and the judgment-seat of Caesar was the protection of
innumerable citizens. Many were the mistakes, many the misfortunes, deplorable the mischiefs,
of the Imperial administration; I wish neither to deny, nor to conceal them: but here I must
content myself with speaking broadly, with presenting a superficial view of things; and, upon
the whole, the system of the Emperors was less bad than the decayed and inadequate government,
out of which it was developed. For the change from the Republic to the Empire was hardly a
revolution; and the venerable names and forms of the old organisation were religiously preserved.
Still, the Consuls were elected, the Senate met and legislated, Praetors and Legates went forth
into the provinces, the Legions watched upon the frontiers, the lesser Magistrates performed
their office; but above them was Caesar, directing all things, controlling all things; the
Imperator and Universal Tribune, in whose name all was done; the "Praesens Divus," on whom
the whole depended; at once the master of the Imperial Commonwealth, and the minister of the
Roman People.

"The Annals," and the history of Tiberius, have detained us, for the most part, within the
capital: "The Agricola" brings us into a province of the Empire; and "The Account of Germany"
will take us among the savages beyond the frontier. I need scarcely mention, that our country
was brought within the Roman influence by Julius Caesar; but that Caesar's enterprise was not
continued by Augustus, nor by Tiberius; though Caligula celebrated a fictitious triumph over
the unconquered Britons: that a war of about forty years was undertaken by Claudius, maintained
by Nero, and terminated by Domitian; who were respectively "the most stupid, the most dissolute,
and the most timid of all the Emperors." It was in the British wars, that Vespasian began his
great career, "monstratus fatis"; but the island was not really added to the Empire, until
Agricola subdued it for Domitian. "The Life of Agricola" is of general interest, because it
preserves the memory of a good and noble Roman: to us, it is of special interest, because it
records the state of Britain when it was a dependency of the Caesars; "adjectis Britannis imperio."
Our present fashions in history will not allow us to think, that we have much in common with
those natives, whom Tacitus describes: but fashions change, in history as in other things;
and in a wiser time we may come to know, and be proud to acknowledge, that we have derived
a part of our origin, and perhaps our fairest accomplishments, from the Celtic Britons. The
narrative of Tacitus requires no explanation; and I will only bring to the memory of my readers,
Cowper's good poem on Boadicea. We have been dwelling upon the glories of the Roman Empire:
it may be pardonable in us, and it is not unpleasing, to turn for a moment, I will not say
to "the too vast orb" of our fate, but rather to that Empire which is more extensive than the
Roman; and destined to be, I hope, more enduring, more united, and more prosperous. Horace
will hardly speak of the Britons, as humane beings, and he was right; in his time, they were
not a portion of the Roman World, they had no part in the benefits of the Roman government:
he talks of them, as beyond the confines of civility, "in ultimos orbis Britannos;" as cut
off by "the estranging sea," and there jubilant in their native practices, "Visum Britannos
hospitibus feros." But Cowper says, no less truly, of a despised and rebel Queen;

  Regions Caesar never knew,
  Thy posterity shall sway;
  Where his Eagles never flew,
  None invincible as they.

The last battles of Agricola were fought in Scotland; and, in the pages of Tacitus, he achieved
a splendid victory among the Grampian hills. The Scotch themselves are never tired of asserting,
and of celebrating, their "independence"; Scotland imposed a limit to the victories of the
Roman People, Scaliger says in his compliments to Buchanan:

  Imperii fuerat Romani Scotia lines.

But it may be questioned, whether it were an unmixed blessing, to be excluded from the Empire;
and to offer a sullen resistance to its inestimable gifts of humane life, of manners, and of
civility.

To these things, the Germans also have manifested a strong dislike; and they are more censurable
than the Scotch, because all their knowledge of the Romans was not derived from the intercourse
of war. "The Germany" of Tacitus is a document, that has been much discussed; and these discussions
may be numbered among the most flagrant examples of literary intemperance: but this will not
surprise us, when we allow for the structure of mind, the language, and the usual productions
of those, to whom the treatise is naturally of the greatest importance. In the description
of the Germans, Tacitus goes out of his way to laugh at the "licentia vetustatis," "the debauches
of pedants and antiquarians;" as though he suspected the fortunes of his volume, and the future
distinctions of the Teutonic genius. For sane readers, it will be enough to remark, that the
Germany of Tacitus was limited, upon the west, by the natural and proper boundary of the Rhine;
that it embraced a portion of the Low Countries; and that, although he says it was confined
within the Danube, yet the separation is not clear between the true Germans and those obscurer
tribes, whose descendants furnish a long enumeration of titles to the present melancholy sovereign
of the House of Austria. Upon a few sentences out of the "Germania"; which relate to the kings,
to the holding of land, to the public assemblies, and to the army; an imposing structure of
English constitutional history has been erected: our modern historians look upon this treatise
with singular approval; because it shows them, they say, the habits of their own forefathers
in their native settlements. They profess to be enchanted with all they read; and, in their
works, they betray their descent from the ancestors they admire. Whether he succeeds, I must
leave my readers to decide. Tacitus describes the quarrels of the Germans; fought, then with
weapons; now, with words: their gambling, their sloth, their drunkenness. Tacitus informs us,
too, "that they sleep far into the day; that on rising they take a bath, usually of warm water;
then they eat." To pass an entire day and night in drinking, disgraces no one: "Dediti somno
ciboque," he says; a people handed over to sloth and gluttony. Some of these customs are now
almost obsolete; the baths, for instance. In others, there has been little alteration since
the Age of Tacitus; and the Germans have adhered, with obstinate fidelity, to their primitive
habits. Tacitus thought less of their capacity, upon the whole, than it is usual to think now:
"The Chatti," he says, "for Germans, have much intelligence;" "Leur intelligence et leur finesse
etonnent, dans des Germains." But let us forget these "Tedeschi lurchi, non ragionam di lor;"
and pass on to those manly virtues, which Tacitus records: To abandon your shield, is the basest
of crimes, "relicta non bene parmula;" nor may a man thus disgraced be present at their sacred
rites, nor enter their council; many, indeed, after escaping from battle, have ended their
infamy with the halter. And to more shameful crimes, they awarded a sterner punishment:

  Behind flock'd wrangling up a piteous crew
  Greeted of none, disfeatured and forlorn:
  Cowards, who were in sloughs interr'd alive;
  And round them still the wattled hurdles hung
  Wherewith they stamp'd them down, and trod them deep,
  To hide their shameful memory from men.

Having now surveyed the compositions in this volume, it is proper that we should at length
devote some of our notice to Gordon himself, and to his manner of presenting Tacitus. Thomas
Gordon was born in Scotland; the date has not yet been ascertained. He is thought to have been
educated at a northern university, and to have become an Advocate. Later, he went to London;
and taught languages. Two pamphlets on the Bangorian controversy brought him into notice; and
he wrote many religious and political dissertations. "A Defence of Primitive Christianity,
against the Exhorbitant Claims of Fanatical and Dissaffected Clergymen;" "Tracts on Religion,
and on the Jacobite Rebellion of '45;" "The Pillars of Priestcraft and Orthodoxy Shaken;" "A
Cordial for Low Spirits;" are the titles of some of his compositions. In politics, and in theology,
he was a republican and free-thinker: he translated and edited "The Spirit of Ecclesiastics
in All Ages;" he was a contributor to "The Independent Whig;" and in a series of "Cato's Letters,"
he discoursed at ease upon his usual topics. The Tacitus was published in 1728, in two volumes
folio: long dissertations are inserted in either volume; the literature in them excellent,
the politics not so good: the volumes, as well as the several parts of them, are dedicated
to some Royal and many Noble Patrons. Gordon has also turned Sallust into English: the book
was published in 1744, in one handsome quarto; "with Political Discourses upon that Author
and Translations of Cicero's Four Orations against Cataline." Walpole made Gordon the first
commissioner of wine licences. It is handed down, that Gordon was a burly person, "large and
corpulent." It is believed, that he found his way into "The Dunciad," and that he is immortalised
there among the "Canaille Ecrivante;" the line

  Where Tindal dictates and Silenus snores,

is taken to be Pope's description of him. Gordon died in 1750; at the same time as Dr. Middleton,
the elegant biographer of Cicero: Lord Bolingbroke is said to have observed, when the news
was told him, "Then is the best writer in England gone, and the worst." That Bolingbroke should
have disliked Gordon and his politics, does not surprise me; but I cannot understand for what
reason he, and other good judges, despised his writings. "The chief glory of every people arises
from its authors," Dr. Johnson says; and happy the people, I would assert, who have no worse
writers than Thomas Gordon. I wish to draw attention to Gordon's correct vocabulary, to his
bold and pregnant language, and to his scholarly punctuation. Among our present writers, the
art of punctuation is a lost accomplishment; and it is usual now to find writings with hardly
anything but full stops; colons and semicolons are almost obsolete; commas are neglected, or
misused; and our slovenly pages are strewn with dashes, the last resources of an untidy thinker,
the certain witnesses to a careless and unfinished sentence. How different, and how superior,
is the way of Gordon; who, though he can be homely and familiar, never lays aside the well-bred
and courteous manners of a polished Age. In his writings, the leading clauses of a sentence
are distinguished by their colons: the minor clauses, by their semicolons; the nice meaning
of the details is expressed, the pleasure and the convenience of his readers are alike increased,
by his right and elegant use of commas. The comma, with us, is used as a loop or bracket, and
for little else: by the more accurate scholars of the last Age, it was employed to indicate
a finer meaning; to mark an emphasis, or an elision; to introduce a relative clause; to bring
out the value of an happy phrase, or the nice precision of an epithet. And thus the authors
of the great century of prose, that orderly and spacious time, assembled their words, arranged
their sentences, and marshalled them into careful periods: without any loss to the subtile
meaning of their thought, or any sacrifice of vigour, they exposed their subject in a dignified
procession of stately paragraphs; and when the end is reached we look back upon a perfect specimen
of the writer's art. We have grown careless about form, we have little sense for balance and
proportion, and we have sacrificed the good manners of literature to an ill-bred liking for
haste and noise: it has been decided, that the old way of writing is cumbersome and slow; as
well might some guerilla chieftain have announced to his fellow-barbarians, that Caesar's legions
were not swift and beautiful in their manoeuvres, nor irresistible in their advance. I have
spoken of our long sentences, with nothing but full stops: they are variegated, here and there,
with shorter sentences, sometimes of two words; this way of writing is common in Macaulay or
in the histories of Mr. Green, and I have seen it recommended in Primers of Literature and
Manuals of Composition. With the jolting and unconnected fragments of these authorities, I
would contrast the musical and flowing periods of Dr. Johnson's "Lives of the Poets": to study
these works in solitude, will probably be sufficient to justify my preference; but to hear
them read aloud, should convert the most unwilling listener into an advocate of my opinion.

Dr. Birkbeck Hill, in the delightful Preface to his Boswell, explains how he was turned by
a happy chance to the study of the literature of the eighteenth century; and how he read on
and on in the enchanting pages of "The Spectator." These words might be used of Gordon: I do
not claim for him the style of Addison, nor the accomplished negligence of Goldsmith; these
are graces beyond the reach of art; but he exhibits the common-sense, and the clear style,
of the eighteenth century. Like all the good writers of his time, he is unaffected and "simplex
munditiis"; he has the better qualities of Pyrrha, and is "plain in his neatness." In Mr. Ward's
edition of the English Poets, there may be read side by side a notice of Collins and of Gray;
the one by Mr. Swinburne, the other by Mr. Matthew Arnold: I make no allusion here to the greatness
of either poet, to the merits of either style, nor to the value of either criticism. But the
essay upon Gray is quiet in tone; it has an unity of treatment, and never deserts the principal
subject; it is suffused with light, and full of the most delicate allusions: the essay on Collins,
by being written in superlatives and vague similes, deafens and perplexes the reader; and the
author, by squandering his resources, has no power to make fine distinctions, nor to exalt
one part of his thesis above another. These two performances illustrate the last quality in
Gordon, and in the old writers, to which I shall draw attention: they were always restrained
in their utterances, and therefore they could be discriminating in their judgments; they could
be emphatic without noise, and deep without obscurity, ornamental but not vulgar, carefully
arranged but not stiff or artificial. They exhibit the three indispensable gifts of the finest
authorship: "simplicitas munditiis," "lucidus ordo," "curiosa felicitas."

In this volume, Gordon's punctuation has been generally followed: his orthography has been
modernised a little, though not by my hands, nor with my consent; and I have observed without
regret, that some of Gordon's original spellings have eluded the vigilance of the printer:
that stern official would by no means listen to my entreaties for the long "SS," the turn-over
words, or the bounteous capitals, which add so much to the seductive and sober dignity of an
eighteenth-century page; but, on the whole, we have given a tolerable reproduction of Gordon's
folio. In the second edition, he himself made more changes than improvements. I will not say,
that Gordon has always conveyed the exact meaning of the sentences of Tacitus: but he has done
what is better, and more difficult; he has grasped the broad meaning of his author, and caught
something of his lofty spirit. "A translation," he says, "ought to read like an original;"
and Gordon has not failed, I think, to reach this perfection. It is not commonly attained among
translators: Gordon says, of one rendering of Tacitus, "'Tis not the fire of Tacitus, but his
embers; quenched with English words, cold and Gothick." Of the author of another version, he
says "Learning is his chief accomplishment, and thence his translation is a very poor one."
This judgment is true of most modern translations from the Ancients; they may be correct versions,
but are miserable English: the authors, while studying the most perfect models of the art of
writing, have produced copies which are not literature at all. From this low company, I would
rescue Sir Charles Bowen's "Virgil": a delightful poem, to those who are ignorant of Latin;
an exquisite production, and an amazing triumph, to those who converse with the original. There
are many English translations of Tacitus: the first, by Sir Henry Savile and "one Greenway";
the former, says Gordon, "has performed like a schoolmaster, the latter like a school-boy."
Anthony a Wood writes in another strain, in the "Athenae Oxonienis": "A rare Translation it
is, and the Work of a very Great Master indeed, both in our Tongue and that Story. For if we
consider the difficulty of the Original, and the Age wherein the Translation lived, it is both
for the exactness of the version, and the chastity of the Language, one of the most accurate
and perfect translations that ever were made into English." There is a rendering by Murphy,
diffuse and poor; a dilution of Gordon, worthy neither of Tacitus nor of the English tongue.
There are translations, too, into almost every modern language: I would give the highest praise
to Davanzati; a scholar of Tuscany, who lived in the sixteenth century. In French, I cannot
but admire the labours of M. Burnouf: although the austere rules, the precise constructions,
and the easy comportment of the French prose are not suited to the style of Tacitus, and something
of his weight and brevity are lost; yet the translator never loses the depth and subtilty of
his author's meaning; his work is agreeable to read, and very useful to consult. The maps and
the genealogical tables in the three volumes of Messrs. Church and Brodribb's translation are
also of the greatest service, and the notes are sometimes most amusing.

Of Tacitus himself, there is little for me to say: those, who know him, can judge for themselves;
to those who do not, no words are able to convey an adequate impression. "Who is able to infuse
into me," Cardinal Newman asks, "or how shall I imbibe, a sense of the peculiarities of the
style of Cicero or Virgil, if I have not read their writings? No description, however complete,
could convey to my mind an exact likeness of a tune, or an harmony, which I have never heard;
and still less of a scent, which I have never smelled: and if I said that Mozart's melodies
were as a summer sky, or as the breath of Zephyr, I shall be better understood by those who
knew Mozart, than by those who did not." These truths are little remembered by modern critics:
though, indeed, it is not possible to convey to a reader adequate notions about the style of
an author, whom that reader has not pondered for himself; about his thoughts or his subjects,
it may be different. Still, I may write something about the manner of Tacitus, which will not
violate Cardinal Newman's laws, nor be an outrage to taste and common-sense. "It is the great
excellence of a writer," says Dr. Johnson, "to put into his book as much as it will hold:"
and if this judgment be sound, then is Tacitus the greatest of all writers in prose. Gordon
says of him, "He explains events with a redundancy of images, and a frugality of words: his
images are many, but close and thick; his words are few, but pointed and glowing; and even
his silence is instructive and affecting. Whatever he says, you see; and all, that you see,
affects you. Let his words be ever so few, his thought and matter are always abundant. His
imagination is boundless, yet never outruns his judgment; his wisdom is solid and vast, yet
always enlivened by his imagination. He starts the idea, and lets the imagination pursue it;
the sample he gives you is so fine, that you are presently curious to see the whole piece,
and then you have your share in the merit of the discovery; a compliment, which some able writers
have forgot to pay to their readers." I would remark here, that many of the old writers give
me the sense of handling things, they are definite and solid; while some of the moderns appear
to play with words only, and never to come up with the objects of their pursuit: "we are too
often ravished with a sonorous sentence," as Dr. Johnson says, "of which, when the noise is
past, the meaning does not long remain." But of Tacitus, Gordon says, "His words and phrases
are admirably adapted to his matter and conceptions, and make impressions sudden and wonderful
upon the mind of man. Stile is a part of genius, and Tacitus had one peculiar to himself; a
sort of language of his own, one fit to express the amazing vigour of his spirit, and that
redundancy of reflections which for force and frequency are to be equalled by no writer before
nor since." The impressions of Tacitus are indeed wonderful: I doubt, whether volumes could
bring us nearer to the mutinous legions, than the few chapters in which he records their history.
I am always delighted by Gordon's way of telling the battle, in which the iron men of Sacrovir
were overthrown; the account begins on page 139. Then how satisfying is the narrative of the
wars in Germany, of the shipwreck, of the funeral of Varus and the slaughtered legions; how
pleasing the description of Germanicus' antiquarian travels in Egypt, and in Greece. Though
Tacitus is not a maker of "descriptions," in our modern sense: there is but one "description"
in "The Annals," so far as I remember, it is of Capri; and it is not the sort, that would be
quoted by a reviewer, as a "beautiful cameo of description." With Tacitus, a field of battle
is not an occasion for "word-painting," as we call it; the battle is always first, the scenery
of less importance. He tells, what it is necessary to know; but he is too wise to think, that
we can realise from words, a place which we have never seen; and too sound in his taste, to
forget the wholesome boundaries between poetry and prose. This is the way of all the ancient
writers. In a work on "Landscape," I remember that Mr. Hamerton mourns over the Commentaries
of Caesar; because they do not resemble the letters of a modern war-correspondent; Ascham,
on the other hand, a man of real taste and learning, says of the Commentaries, "All things
be most perfectly done by him; in Caesar only, could never yet fault be found." I agree with
Ascham: I think I prefer the Commentaries as they are, chaste and quiet; I really prefer them
to Mr. Kinglake's "Crimean War," or to Mr. Forbes' Despatches, or even to the most effusive
pages of Mr. Stanley's book on Africa.

In "The Life of Agricola," I would mention the simplicity of the treatment and the excellence
of the taste. Tacitus does not recite the whole of Roman history, nor assemble all the worthies
out of Plutarch. Agricola is not compared to the pyramids, to the Flavian circus, nor to any
works of art and literature: these flights of imagination were not known to the Ancients; but
in a learned modern, I have seen Dante compared to Wagner's operas, to the Parthenon and St.
Peter's, and to Justinian's code. The sanctities of private life are not violated; yet we know
everything, that it is decent to know, about Agricola. Lord Coleridge has given a beautiful
rendering of the closing passages of "The Agricola," in his account of Mr. Matthew Arnold:
these elegant papers are not only models of good English; but are conspicuous, among recent
obituary notices, for their fine taste and their becoming reticence. From the excesses of modern
biographers, Tacitus was in little danger; thanks to his Roman sense, and to the qualities
of the Roman Language. "Economy," says Mr. Symonds, "is exhibited in every element of this
athletic tongue. Like a naked gladiator all bone and muscle, it relies upon bare sinewy strength."
That author speaks of "the austere and masculine virtues of Latin, the sincerity and brevity
of Roman speech;" and Tacitus is, beyond any doubt, the strongest, the austerest, the most
pregnant of all the Romans. "Sanity," says Mr. Matthew Arnold, in conclusion, "that is the
great virtue of the ancient literature; the want of that is the great defect of the modern,
in spite of all its variety and power." "It is impossible to read the great ancients, without
losing something of our caprice and eccentricity.

It has been told of Cardinal Newman, that he never liked to pass a single day, without rendering
an English sentence into Latin. To converse with the Roman authors, to handle their precise
and sparing language, is, I can well believe it, a most wholesome discipline; and the most
efficient remedy against those faults of diffuseness, of obscurity, and of excess, which are
only too common among the writers of our day. It may have been to this practice, that Cardinal
Newman owed something of his clearness, and of his exquisite simplicity: and for his style,
he should be idolised by every one who has a taste for literature. I have said many things
in praise of the ancient authors: it pleases me, as I finish, to offer my humble tribute to
an author who is quite our own; to one, who in all his writings has bequeathed us perfect models
of chaste, of lucid, and of melodious prose.

NEW COLLEGE, OXFORD: September 15, 1890.

THE FIRST SIX BOOKS OF THE ANNALS OF TACITUS: BEING AN HISTORY OF THE EMPEROR TIBERIUS

THE ANNALS OF TACITUS

BOOK I

A.D. 14 AND 15.

Kings were the original Magistrates of Rome: Lucius Brutus founded Liberty and the Consulship:
Dictators were chosen occasionally, and used only in pressing exigencies. Little more than
two years prevailed the supreme power of the Decemvirate, and the consular jurisdiction of
the military Tribunes not very many. The domination of Cinna was but short, that of Sylla not
long. The authority of Pompey and Crassus was quickly swallowed up in Caesar; that of Lepidus
and Anthony in Augustus. The Commonwealth, then long distressed and exhausted by the rage of
her civil dissensions, fell easily into his hands, and over her he assumed a sovereign dominion;
yet softened with a venerable name, that of Prince or Chief of the Senate. But the several
revolutions in the ancient free state of Rome, and all her happy or disastrous events, are
already recorded by writers of signal renown. Nor even in the reign of Augustus were there
wanting authors of distinction and genius to have composed his story; till by the prevailing
spirit of fear, flattery, and abasement they were checked. As to the succeeding Princes, Tiberius,
Caligula, Claudius, and Nero; the dread of their tyranny, whilst they yet reigned, falsified
their history; and after their fall, the fresh detestation of their cruelties inflamed their
Historians. Hence my own design of recounting briefly certain incidents in the reign of Augustus,
chiefly towards his latter end, and of entering afterwards more fully into that of Tiberius
and the other three; unbiassed as I am in this undertaking by any resentment, or any affection;
all the influences of these personal passions being far from me.

When, after the fall of Brutus and Cassius, there remained none to fight for the Commonwealth,
and her arms were no longer in her own hands; when Sextus Pompeius was utterly defeated in
Sicily, Lepidus bereft of his command. Marc Anthony slain; and of all the chiefs of the late
Dictator's party, only Octavius his nephew was left; he put off the invidious name of Triumvir,
and styling himself Consul, pretended that the jurisdiction attached to the Tribuneship was
his highest aim, as in it the protection of the populace was his only view: but when once he
had laid his foundations wider, secured the soldiery by liberality and donations, gained the
people by store of provisions, and charmed all by the blessings and sweetness of public peace,
he began by politic gradations to exalt himself, to extend his domination, and with his own
power to consolidate the authority of the Senate, jurisdiction of the Magistrate, and weight
and force of the Laws; usurpations in which he was thwarted by no man: all the bravest Republicans
and his most daring foes were slain in battle, or gleaned up by the late sanguinary proscriptions;
and for the surviving Nobility, they were covered with wealth, and distinguished with public
honours, according to the measure of their debasement, and promptness to bondage. Add, that
all the creatures of this new Power, who in the loss of public freedom had gained private fortunes,
preferred a servile condition, safe and possessed, to the revival of ancient liberty with personal
peril. Neither were the Provinces averse to the present Revolution, and Sovereignty of one;
since under that of the people and Senate they had lived in constant fear and mistrust, sorely
rent and harassed as they were by the raging competition amongst our Grandees, as well as by
the grievous rapine and exactions of our Magistrates; in vain too, under these their oppressions,
had been their appeal to the protection of the laws, which were utterly enfeebled and borne
down by might and violence, by faction and parties; nay, even by subornation and money.

Moreover, Augustus, in order to fortify his domination with collateral bulwarks, raised his
sister's son Claudius Marcellus, a perfect youth, to the dignity of Pontiff and that of Aedile;
preferred Marcus Agrippa to two successive Consulships, a man in truth meanly born but an accomplished
soldier, and the companion of his victories; and Marcellus, the husband of Julia, soon after
dying, chose him for his son-in-law. Even the sons of his wife, Tiberius Nero, and Claudius
Drusus, he dignified with high military titles and commands; though his house was yet supported
by descendants of his own blood. For into the Julian family and name of the Caesars he had
already adopted Lucius and Caius, the sons of Agrippa; and though they were but children, neither
of them seventeen years old, vehement had been his ambition to see them declared Princes of
the Roman Youth and even designed to the Consulship; while openly, he was protesting against
admitting these early honours. Presently, upon the decease of Agrippa, were these his children
snatched away, either by their own natural but hasty fate, or by the deadly fraud of their
step-mother Livia; Lucius on his journey to command the armies in Spain; Caius in his return
from Armenia, ill of a wound: and as Drusus, one of her own sons, had been long since dead,
Tiberius remained sole candidate for the succession. Upon this object, centred all princely
honours; he was by Augustus adopted for his son, assumed Colleague in the Empire, partner in
the jurisdiction tribunitial, and presented under all these dignities to the several armies:
instances of grandeur which were no longer derived from the secret schemes and plottings of
his mother, as in times past, while her husband had unexceptionable heirs of his own, but thenceforth
bestowed at her open suit. For as Augustus was now very aged, she had over him obtained such
absolute sway, that for her pleasure he banished into the Isle of Planasia his only surviving
grandson, Agrippa Postumus; one, in truth, destitute of laudable accomplishments, in his temper
untractable, and stupidly conceited of his mighty strength, but branded with no misdemeanour
or transgression. The Emperor had withal set Germanicus, the son of Drusus, over eight legions
quartered upon the Rhine, and obliged Tiberius to adopt him, though Tiberius had then a son
of his own, one of competent years; but it was the study of Augustus, to secure himself and
the succession by variety of stays and engraftments. War at that time there was none, except
that in Germany, kept on foot rather to abolish the disgrace sustained by Quinctilius Varus,
there slain with his army, than from any ambition to enlarge the Empire, or for any other valuable
advantage. In profound tranquillity were affairs at Rome. To the Magistrates remained their
wonted names; of the Romans the younger sort had been born since the battle of Actium, and
even most of the old during the civil wars: how few were then living who had seen the ancient
free State!

The frame and economy of Rome being thus totally overturned, amongst the Romans were no longer
found any traces of their primitive spirit, or attachment to the virtuous institutions of antiquity.
But as the equality of the whole was extinguished by the sovereignty of one, all men regarded
the orders of the Prince as the only rule of conduct and obedience; nor felt they any anxiety,
while Augustus yet retained vigour of life, and upheld the credit of his administration with
public peace, and the imperial fortune of his house. But when he became broken with the pressure
of age and infirmities; when his end was at hand, and thence a new source of hopes and views
was presented, some few there were who began to reason idly about the blessings and recovery
of Liberty; many dreaded a civil war, others longed for one; while far the greater part were
uttering their several apprehensions of their future masters; "that naturally stern and savage
was the temper of Agrippa, and by his public contumely enraged into fury; and neither in age
nor experience was he equal to the weight of Empire. Tiberius indeed had arrived at fulness
of years, and was a distinguished captain, but possessed the inveterate pride entailed upon
the Claudian race; and many indications of a cruel nature escaped him, in spite of all his
arts to disguise it; besides that from his early infancy he was trained up in a reigning house,
and even in his youth inured to an accumulation of power and honours, consulships and triumphs:
nor during the several years of his abode at Rhodes, where, under the plausible name of retirement,
a real banishment was covered, did he exercise other occupation than that of meditating future
vengeance, studying the arts of treachery, and practising secret, abominable sensualities:
add to these considerations, that of his mother, a woman inspired with all the tyranny of her
sex; yes, the Romans must be under bondage to a woman, and moreover enthralled by two youths,
who would first combine to oppress the State, and then falling into dissension, rend it piecemeal."

While the public was engaged in these and the like debates, the illness of Augustus waxed daily
more grievous; and some strongly suspected the pestilent practices of his wife. For there had
been, some months before, a rumour abroad, that Augustus having singled out a few of his most
faithful servants, and taken Fabius Maximus for his only companion, had, with no other retinue,
sailed secretly over to the Island of Planasia, there to visit his Grandson Agrippa; that many
tears were shed on both sides, many tokens of mutual tenderness shown, and hopes from thence
conceived, that the unhappy youth would be restored to his own place in his Grandfather's family.
That Maximus had disclosed it to Martia, she to Livia; and thence the Emperor knew that the
secret was betrayed: that Maximus being soon after dead (dead, as it was doubted, through fear,
by his own hands), Martia was observed, in her lamentations and groans at his funeral, to accuse
herself as the sad cause of her husband's destruction. Whatever truth was in all this, Tiberius
was scarce entered Illyrium, but he was hastily recalled by his mother's letters: nor is it
fully known whether at his return to Nola, he found Augustus yet breathing, or already breathless.
For Livia had carefully beset the palace, and all the avenues to it, with detachments of the
guards; and good news of his recovery were from time to time given out. When she had taken
all measures necessary in so great a conjuncture, in one and the same moment was published
the departure of Augustus, and the accession of Tiberius.

The first feat of this new reign was the murder of young Agrippa: the assassin, a bold and
determined Centurion, found him destitute of arms, and little apprehending such a destiny,
yet was scarce able to despatch him. Of this transaction Tiberius avoided any mention in the
Senate: he would have it pass for done by the commands of Augustus; as if he had transmitted
written orders to the Tribune, who guarded Agrippa, "to slay him the instant he heard of his
grandfather's decease." It is very true that Augustus had made many and vehement complaints
of the young man's obstinate and unruly demeanour, and even solicited from the Senate a decree
to authorise his banishment: but he never hardened himself against the sentiments of nature,
nor in any instance dipped his hands in his own blood; neither is it credible that he would
barbarously sacrifice the life of his grandson for the security and establishment of his step-son.
More probable it is, that this hasty murder was purely the work of Tiberius and Livia; that
the young Prince, hated and dreaded by both, fell thus untimely, to rid the one of his apprehensions
and a rival, and to satiate in the other the rancorous spirit of a step-mother. When the Centurion,
according to the custom of the army, acquainted Tiberius, "that his commands were executed;"
he answered, "he had commanded no such execution, and the Centurion must appear before the
Senate, and for it be answerable to them." This alarmed Sallustius Crispus, who shared in all
his secret counsels, and had sent the Centurion the warrant: he dreaded that he should be arraigned
for the assassination, and knew it equally perilous either to confess the truth, and charge
the Emperor; or falsely to clear the Emperor, and accuse himself. Hence he had recourse to
Livia, and warned her, "never to divulge the secrets of the palace, never to expose to public
examination the ministers who advised, nor the soldiers who executed: Tiberius should beware
of relaxing the authority of the Prince, by referring all things to that of the Senate; since
it was the indispensable prerogative of sovereignty for all men to be accountable only to one."

Now at Rome, Consuls, Senators, and Roman Knights, were all rushing with emulation into bondage,
and the higher the quality of each the more false and forward the men; all careful so to frame
their faces, as to reconcile false joy for the accession of Tiberius, with feigned sadness
for the loss of Augustus: hence they intermingled fears with gladness, wailings with gratulations,
and all with servile flattery. Sextus Pompeius and Sextus Apuleius, at that time Consuls, took
first the oath of fidelity to Tiberius; then administered it to Seius Strabo and Caius Turranius;
the former Captain of the Praetorian Guards, the other Intendant of the Public Stores. The
oath was next given to the Senate, to the people, and to the soldiery: all by the same Consuls;
for Tiberius affected to derive all public transactions from the legal ministry of the Consuls,
as if the ancient Republic still subsisted, and he were yet unresolved about embracing the
sovereign rule: he even owned in his edict for summoning the Senate, that he issued it by virtue
of the Tribunitial power, granted him under Augustus. The edict, too, was short and unexceptionably
modest. It imported that, "they were to consider of the funeral honours proper to be paid his
deceased Father: for himself he would not depart from the corpse; and further than this edict
implied, he claimed no share in the public administration." Yet from the moment Augustus was
dead, he usurped all the prerogatives of imperial state, gave the word to the Praetorian Cohorts;
had soldiers about the palace, guards about his person, went guarded in the street, guarded
to the Senate, and bore all the marks of Majesty: nay, he writ letters to the several armies
in the undisguised style of one already their Prince: nor did he ever hesitate in expression,
or speak with perplexity, but when he spoke to the Senate. The chief cause of his obscurity
there proceeded from his fear of Germanicus: he dreaded that he, who was master of so many
legions, of numberless auxiliaries, and of all the allies of Rome; he, who was the darling
of the people, might wish rather to possess the Empire, than to wait for it; he likewise, in
this mysterious way of dealing with the Senate, sought false glory, and would rather seem by
the Commonwealth chosen and called to the Empire, than to have crept darkly into it by the
intrigues of a woman, or by adoption from a superannuated Prince. It was also afterwards found,
that by this abstruseness and counterfeit irresolution he meant to penetrate into the designs
and inclinations of the great men: for his jealous spirit construed all their words, all their
looks, into crimes; and stored them up in his heart against a day of vengeance.

When he first met the Senate, he would bear no other business to be transacted but that about
the funeral of Augustus. His last will was brought in by the Vestal Virgins: in it Tiberius
and Livia were appointed his heirs, Livia adopted into the Julian family, and dignified with
the name of Augusta: into the next and second degree of heirship he adopted his grandchildren
and their children; and in the third degree he named the great men of Rome, most of them hated
by him, but out of vainglory he named them, and for future renown. His legacies were not beyond
the usual bounds; only he left to the Roman people four hundred thousand great sesterces, [Footnote:
L362,500.] to the populace or common sort, thirty- five thousand; to every common soldier of
the Praetorian Guards, a thousand small sesterces, [Footnote: L8, 6s. 8d.] and to every soldier
of the Roman legions three hundred. [Footnote: L2, 10s.] The funeral honours were next considered.
The chief proposed were these: Asinius Gallus moved that "the funeral should pass through the
Triumphal Gate:" Lucius Arruntius, "that the titles of all the laws which he had made, and
the names of all the nations which he had conquered, should be carried before the corpse:"
Valerius Messala added, that "the oath of allegiance to Tiberius should be renewed every year;"
and being asked by Tiberius, "whether at his instigation he had made that motion?" "I spoke
it as my opinion," says Messala; "nor will I ever be determined by any but my own, in things
which concern the commonweal; let who will be provoked by my freedom." Only this new turn was
wanting to complete the prevailing flattery of the time. The Senators then concurred in a loud
cry, "that upon their own shoulders they must bear the body to the pile." But Tiberius declined
the offer from an arrogant show of moderation. Moreover, he cautioned the people by an edict,
"not to disturb the funeral functions with a zeal over-passionate, as they had those of Julius
Caesar; nor to insist that the corpse of Augustus should be burnt rather in the Forum, than
in the field of Mars, which was the place appointed." On the funeral day the soldiers under
arms kept guard; a mighty mockery this to those who had either seen, or heard their fathers
describe, the day when Caesar the Dictator was slain: servitude was then new, its sorrows yet
fresh and bitter; and liberty unsuccessfully retrieved by a deed which, while it seemed impious
to some, was thought altogether glorious by others, and hence tore Rome into tumults and the
violence of parties: they who knew that turbulent day, and compared it with the quiet exit
of Augustus, ridiculed the foppery of "calling an aid of soldiers to secure a peaceable burial
to a Prince who had grown old in peace and power, and even provided against a relapse into
liberty, by a long train of successors."

Hence much and various matter of observation concerning Augustus: the superstitious multitude
admired the fortuitous events of his fortune; "that the last day of his life, and the first
of his reign, was the same; that he died at Nola, in the same village, and in the same house,
and in the same chamber, where his father Octavius died. They observed to his glory, his many
Consulships, equal in number to those of Valerius Corvinus and of Caius Marius, joined together;
that he had exercised the power of the Tribuneship seven-and-thirty continued years: that he
was one-and- twenty times proclaimed Imperator; with many other numerous honours repeated to
him, or created for him." Men of deeper discernment entered further into his life, but differed
about it. His admirers said, "that his filial piety to his father Caesar, and the distractions
of the Republic, where the laws no longer governed, had driven him into a civil war; which,
whatever be the first cause, can never be begun or carried, on by just and gentle means." Indeed,
to be revenged on the murderers of his father, he had made many great sacrifices to the violent
genius of Anthony; many to Lepidus: but when Lepidus was become sunk and superannuated in sloth;
when Anthony was lost headlong in sensuality, there was then no other remedy for the distracted
State, rent piecemeal by its Chiefs, but the sovereignty of one: Augustus, however, never had
assumed to be over his country King, or Dictator; but settled the government under the legal
name of Prince, or Chief of the Senate: he had extended the Empire, and set for its bounds
the distant ocean and rivers far remote; the several parts and forces of the State, the legions,
the provinces, and the navy, were all properly balanced and connected; the citizens lived dutifully
under the protection of the law, the Allies in terms of respect, and Rome itself was adorned
with magnificent structures: indeed, in a few instances he had exerted the arbitrary violence
of power; and in but a few, only to secure the peace of the whole.

In answer to all this, it was urged, that "his filial piety, and the unhappy situation of the
Republic, were pure pretences; but the ardent lust of reigning, his true and only motive: with
this spirit he had solicited into his service, by bribery, a body of veteran soldiers: and
though a private youth, without post or magistracy, but, in defiance of law, levied an army:
with this spirit he had debauched and bought the Roman legions under the Consuls, while he
was falsely feigning a coalition with Pompey's republican party: that soon after, when he had
procured from the Senate, or rather usurped the honours and authority of the Praetorship; and
when Hirtius and Pansa, the two Consuls, were slain, he seized both their armies: that it was
doubted whether the Consuls fell by the enemy, or whether Pansa was not killed by pouring poison
into his wounds; and Hirtius slain by his own soldiers; and whether the young Caesar was not
the black contriver of this bloody treason: that by terror he had extorted the Consulship in
spite of the Senate; and turned against the Commonwealth the very arms with which the Commonwealth
had trusted him for her defence against Anthony. Add to all this his cruel proscriptions, and
the massacre of so many citizens, his seizing from the public and distributing to his own creatures
so many lands and possessions; a violation of property not justified even by those who gained
by it. But, allowing him to dedicate to the Manes of the Dictator the lives of Brutus and Cassius
(though more to his honour had it been to have postponed his own personal hate to public good),
did he not betray the young Pompey by an insidious peace, betray Lepidus by a deceitful show
of friendship? Did he not next ensnare Marc Anthony, first by treaties, those of Tarentum and
Brundusium; then by a marriage, that of his sister Octavia? And did not Anthony at last pay
with his life the penalty of that subdolous alliance? After this, no doubt there was peace,
but a bloody peace; bloody in the tragical defeat of Lollius, and that of Varus, in Germany;
and at Rome, the Varrones, the Egnatii, the Julii (those illustrious names) were put to death."
Nor was his domestic life spared upon this occasion. "He had arbitrarily robbed Nero of his
wife big with child by her husband; and mocked the Gods by consulting the Priests; whether
religion permitted him to marry her before her delivery, or obliged him to stay till after.
His minions, Tedius and Vedius Pollio, had lived in scandalous and excessive luxury: his wife
Livia, who wholly controlled him, had proved a cruel governess to the Commonwealth; and to
the Julian house, a more cruel step-mother: he had even invaded the incommunicable honours
of the Gods, and setting up for himself temples like theirs, would like them be adored in the
image of a Deity, with all the sacred solemnity of Priests and sacrifices: nor had he adopted
Tiberius for his successor, either out of affection for him, or from concern for the public
welfare; but having discovered in him a spirit proud and cruel, he sought future glory from
the blackest opposition and comparison." For, Augustus, when, a few years before, he solicited
the Senate to grant to Tiberius another term of the authority of the Tribuneship, though he
mentioned him with honour, yet taking notice of his odd humour, behaviour, and manners, dropped
some expressions, which, while they seemed to excuse him, exposed and upbraided him.

As soon as the funeral of Augustus was over, a temple and divine worship were forthwith decreed
him. The Senate then turned their instant supplications to Tiberius, to fill his vacant place;
but received an abstruse answer, touching the greatness of the Empire and his own distrust
of himself; he said that "nothing but the divine genius of Augustus was equal to the mighty
task: that for himself, who had been called by him into a participation of his cares, he had
learnt by feeling them, what a daring, what a difficult toil was that of government, and how
perpetually subject to the caprices of fortune: that in a State supported by so many illustrious
patriots they ought not to cast the whole administration upon one; and more easy to be administered
were the several offices of the Government by the united pains and sufficiency of many." A
pompous and plausible speech, but in it little faith and sincerity. Tiberius, even upon subjects
which needed no disguises, used words dark and cautious; perhaps from his diffident nature,
perhaps from a habit of dissembling: at this juncture indeed, as he laboured wholly to hide
his heart, his language was the more carefully wrapped up in equivoques and obscurity: but
the Senators, who dreaded nothing so much as to seem to understand him, burst into tears, plaints,
and vows; with extended arms they supplicated the Gods, invoked the image of Augustus, and
embraced the knees of Tiberius. He then commanded the imperial register to be produced and
recited. It contained a summary of the strength and income of the Empire, the number of Romans
and auxiliaries in pay, the condition of the navy, of the several kingdoms paying tribute,
and of the various provinces and their revenues, with the state of the public expense, the
issues of the exchequer, and all the demands upon the public. This register was all writ by
the hand of Augustus; and in it he had subjoined his counsel to posterity, that the present
boundaries of the Empire should stand fixed without further enlargement; but whether this counsel
was dictated by fear for the public, or by envy towards his successors, is uncertain.

Now when the Senate was stooping to the vilest importunity and prostrations, Tiberius happened
to say, that, "as he was unequal to the weight of the whole government; so if they entrusted
him with any particular part, whatever it were, he would undertake it." Here Asinius Gallus
interposed: "I beg to know, Caesar," says he, "what part of the government you desire for your
share?" He was astonished with the unexpected question, and, for a short space, mute; but recovering
himself, answered, that "it ill became his modesty to choose or reject any particular branch
of the administration, when he desired rather to be excused from the whole." Gallus, who in
his face conjectured sullen signs of displeasure, again accosted him, and said, "by this question
I did not mean that you should do an impracticable thing, and share that power which cannot
be separated; but I meant to reason you into a confession that the Commonwealth is but one
body, and can be governed only by one soul." He added an encomium upon Augustus, and reminded
Tiberius himself of his many victories, of the many civil employments which he had long and
nobly sustained: nor even thus could he mollify the wrath of Tiberius, who had long hated him,
for that Gallus had married Vipsania, daughter of Marcus Agrippa, and formerly wife to Tiberius,
who thence suspected that by this match he meant to soar above the rank of a subject, and possessed
too the bold and haughty spirit of Asinius Pollio his father.

Lucius Arruntius incurred his displeasure next, by a speech not much unlike that of Gallus:
it is true, that towards him Tiberius bore no old rancour; but Arruntius had mighty opulence,
prompt parts, noble accomplishments, with equal popularity, and hence was marked by him with
a fell eye of suspicion. For, as Augustus, shortly before his decease, was mentioning those
among the great men, who were capable of the supreme power, but would not accept it; or unequal
to it, yet wished for it; or such, as had both ambition and sufficiency; he had said, that
"Marcus Lepidus was qualified, but would reject it; Asinius would be aspiring, but had inferior
talents; and that Lucius Arruntius wanted no sufficiency, and upon a proper occasion would
attempt it." That he spoke thus of Lepidus and Asinius, is agreed; but, instead of Arruntius,
some writers have transmitted the name of Cneius Piso: and every one of these great men, except
Lepidus, were afterwards cut off, under the imputation of various crimes, all darkly framed
by Tiberius. Quintus Haterius and Mamercus Scaurus did thereafter incense his distrustful spirit;
the first by asking him, "How long, Caesar, wilt thou suffer the Commonwealth to remain destitute
of a head?" Scaurus, because he had said "there was room to hope that the prayers of the Senate
would not prove abortive, since he had not opposed as Tribune, nor rendered invalid, as he
might, the motion of the Consuls in his behalf." With Haterius he fell into instant rage; towards
Scaurus his resentment was more deep and implacable, and in profound silence he hid it. Wearied
at last with public importunity and clamour, and with particular expostulations, he began to
unbend a little; not that he would own his undertaking the Empire, but only avoid the uneasiness
of perpetually rejecting endless solicitations. It is known how Haterius, when he went next
day to the palace to implore pardon, and throwing himself at the feet of Tiberius embraced
his knees, narrowly escaped being slain by the soldiers; because Tiberius, who was walking,
tumbled down, whether by chance, or whether his legs were entangled in the arms of Haterius:
neither was he a jot mollified by the danger which threatened so great a man, who was at length
forced to supplicate Augusta for protection; nor could even she obtain it, but after the most
laboured entreaties.

Towards Livia, too, exorbitant was the flattering court of the Senate. Some were for decreeing
her the general title of Mother; others the more particular one of Mother Of Her Country; and
almost all moved, that to the name of Tiberius should be added, The Son Of Julia: Tiberius
urged in answer, that "public honours to women ought to be warily adjudged, and with a sparing
hand; and that with the same measure of moderation he would receive such as were presented
to himself." In truth, full of envy as he was, and anxious lest his own grandeur should sink
as that of his mother rose, he would not suffer so much as a Lictor to be decreed her, and
even forbade the raising her an altar upon her late adoption, or paying her any such solemnities.
But for Germanicus he asked the Proconsular power; and to carry him that dignity, honourable
deputies were sent, as also to mollify his sorrow for the death of Augustus. If for Drusus
he demanded not the same honour, it was because Drusus was present and already Consul designed.
He then named twelve candidates for the Praetorship; the same number settled by Augustus; and
though the Senate requested him to increase it, by an oath he bound himself never to exceed.

The privilege of creating Magistrates was now first translated from the assemblies of the people
to the Senate; for though the Emperor had before conducted all affairs of moment at his pleasure;
yet till that day some were still transacted by the Tribes, and carried by their bent and suffrages.
Neither did the regret of the people for the seizure of these their ancient rights rise higher
than some impotent grumbling. The Senate too liked the change; as by it they were released
from the charge of buying votes, and from the shame of begging them: and so moderate was Tiberius,
that of the twelve candidates he only reserved to himself the recommendation of four, to be
accepted without opposition or caballing. At the same time, the Tribunes of the people asked
leave to celebrate at their own expense certain plays in honour of Augustus, such as were to
be called after his name, and inserted in the calendar. But it was decreed, that out of the
Exchequer the charge should be defrayed, and the Tribunes should in the circus wear the triumphal
robe; but to be carried in chariots was denied them. The annual celebration of these plays
was, for the future, transferred to one of the Praetors, him in particular to whom should fall
the jurisdiction of deciding suits between citizens and strangers.

Thus stood affairs at Rome when a sedition seized the legions in Pannonia; without any fresh
grounds, save that from a change of Princes, they meant to assume a warrant for licentiousness
and tumult, and from a civil war hoped great earnings and acquisitions: they were three legions
encamped together, all commanded by Junius Blesus, who, upon notice of the death of Augustus
and the accession of Tiberius, had granted the soldiers a recess from their wonted duties for
some days, as a time either of public mourning or festivity. From being idle they waxed wanton,
quarrelsome, and turbulent; greedily listened to mutinous discourses; the most profligate amongst
them had most credit with them, and at last they became passionate for a life of sloth and
riot, utterly averse to all military discipline and every fatigue of the camp. In the camp
was one Percennius; formerly a busy leader in the embroilments of the theatre, and now a common
soldier; a fellow of a petulant, declaiming tongue, and by inflaming parties in the playhouse,
well qualified to excite and infatuate a crowd. This incendiary practised upon the ignorant
and unwary, such as were solicitous what might prove their future usage, now Augustus was dead.
He engaged them in nightly confabulations, and by little and little incited them to violence
and disorders; and towards the evening, when the soberest and best affected were withdrawn,
he assembled the worst and most turbulent. When he had thus ripened them for sedition, and
other ready incendiaries were combined with him, he personated the character of a lawful Commander,
and thus questioned and harangued them:

"Why did they obey, like slaves, a few Centurions and a fewer Tribunes? When would they be
bold enough to demand redress of their heavy grievances, unless they snatched the present occasion,
while the Emperor was yet new and his authority wavering, to prevail with him by petition,
or by arms to force him? They had already by the misery of many years paid dear for their patient
sloth and stupid silence, since decrepit with age and maimed with wounds, after a course of
service for thirty or forty years, they were still doomed to carry arms: nor even to those
who were discharged was there any end of the misery of warfare; they were still kept tied to
the colours, and under the creditable title of Veterans endured the same hardships, and underwent
the same labours. But suppose any of them escaped so many dangers, and survived so many calamities,
where was their reward at last? Why, a long and weary march remained yet to be taken into countries
far remote and strange; where, under the name of lands given them to cultivate, they had unhospitable
bogs to drain, and the wild wastes of mountains to manure. Severe and ungainful of itself was
the occupation of war: ten Asses [Footnote: About 5d.] a day the poor price of their persons
and lives; out of this, they must buy clothes, and tents, and arms; out of this, bribe the
cruel Centurions for a forbearance of blows, and occasional exemption from hard duty: but stripes
from their officers, and wounds from their enemies, hard winters and laborious summers, bloody
wars and barren peace, were miseries without end: nor remained there other cure or relief than
to refuse to enlist but upon conditions certain, and fixed by themselves; particularly, that
their pay be a denarius or sixteen Asses a day, [Footnote: About 8-1/2d.] sixteen years be
the utmost term of serving; when discharged, to be no longer obliged to follow the colours,
but have their reward in ready money, paid them in the camp where they earned it. Did the Praetorian
Guards, they who had double pay, they who after sixteen years' service were paid off and sent
home, bear severer difficulties, undergo superior dangers? He did not mean to detract from
the merit of their brethren the City guards; their own lot however it was, to be placed amongst
horrid and barbarous nations, nor could they look from their tents, but they saw the foe."

The whole crowd received this harangue with shouts of applause; but from various instigations.
Some displayed upon their bodies the obvious impressions of stripes, others their hoary heads,
many their vestments ragged and curtailed, with backs utterly bare; as did all, their various
griefs, in the bitterness of reproach. At length to such excessive fury they grew, that they
proposed to incorporate the three legions into one; nor by aught but emulation was the project
defeated: for to his own legion every man claimed the prerogative of swallowing and denominating
the other two. They took another method, and placed the three Eagles of the legions, with the
standards of the several cohorts, altogether without rank or priority; then forthwith digged
turf and were rearing a tribunal, one high enough to be seen at a distance. In this hurry arrived
Blesus, who, falling into sore rebukes, and by force interrupting particulars, called with
vehemence to all: "Dip your hands rather in my blood: to murder your General will be a crime
less shameful and heinous than to revolt from your Prince; for determined I am, either to preserve
the legions in their faith and obedience, if you kill me not for my intended good office; or
my death, if I fall by your hands, shall hasten your remorse."

For all this, turfs were accumulated, and the work was already breast high, when, at last,
overcome by his spirit and perseverance, they forbore. Blesus was an able speaker: he told
them "that sedition and mutiny were not the methods of conveying to the Emperor the pretensions
of the soldiers; their demands too were new and singular; such as neither the soldiers of old
had ever made to the ancient Generals, nor they themselves to the deified Augustus: besides,
their claims were ill-timed, when the Prince, just upon his accession, was already embarrassed
with the weight and variety of other cares. If, however, they meant to try to gain in full
peace those concessions, which, even after a civil war, the conquerors never claimed; yet why
trample upon duty and obedience, why reject the laws of the army, and rules of discipline?
And if they meant to petition, why meditate violence? They might at least appoint deputies;
and in his presence trust them with their pretensions." Here they all cried out, "that the
son of Blesus, one of their Tribunes, should execute that deputation; and demand in their name
that, after sixteen years' service they should be discharged: they said they would give him
new orders, when he had succeeded in these." After the departure of the young officer, a moderate
recess ensued; the soldiers however exulted to have carried such a point: the sending the son
of their General, as the public advocate for their cause, was to them full proof that they
had gained by force and terror that which by modesty and gentle means they would never have gained.

In the meantime those companies which, before the sedition began, were sent to Nauportum [Footnote:
Over-Laybach, in Carniola.] to mend roads and bridges, and upon other duties, no sooner heard
of the uproar in the camp, but they cast off all obedience, tore away the ensigns, and plundered
the neighbouring villages; even Nauportum itself, which for greatness resembled a municipal
town, was plundered. The endeavours of the Centurions to restrain this violence, were first
returned with mockery and contempt, then with invectives and contumelies, at last with outrage
and blows. Their vengeance was chiefly bent against the Camp-Marshal, Aufidienus Rufus: him
they dragged from his chariot, and, loading him with baggage, drove him before the first ranks;
they then insulted him, and asked in scorn, "whether he would gladly bear such enormous burdens,
whether endure such immense marches?" Rufus had been long a common soldier, then became a Centurion,
and afterwards Camp-Marshal; a severe restorer of primitive strictness and discipline; an indefatigable
observer of every military duty, which he exacted from others with the more rigour, as he had
himself undergone them all with patience.

By the arrival of this tumultuous band the sedition was again awakened to its former outrage,
and the seditious, roving abroad without control, ravaged the country on every side. Blesus,
for an example of terror to the rest, commanded those who were most laden with plunder, to
be punished with stripes and cast into prison: for the General was still dutifully obeyed by
the Centurions, and by all the soldiers of any merit; but the criminals refused to submit,
and even struggled with the guard who were carrying them off; they clasped the knees of the
bystanders, implored help from their fellows, now calling upon every individual, and conjuring
them by their particular names; then appealed to them in a body, and supplicated the company,
the cohort, the legion to which they belonged; warning and proclaiming that the same ignominy
and chastisement hung over them all. With the same breath they heaped invectives without measure
upon their General, and called upon heaven and all the Gods to be their witnesses and avengers;
nor left they aught unattempted to raise effectual hatred, compassion, terror, and every species
of fury. Hence the whole body rushed to their relief, burst open the prison, unbound and rescued
the prisoners: thus they owned for their brethren, and incorporated with themselves, infamous
revolters, and traitors convict and condemned.

Hence the violence became more raging, and hence more sedition from more leaders. There was
particularly one Vibulenus, a common soldier, who, exalted on the shoulders of his comrades,
before the tribunal of Blesus, thus declaimed in the ears of a multitude already outrageous,
and eager to hear what he had to say. "To these innocents," says he, "to these miserable sufferers,
our fellow-soldiers, you have indeed restored breath and liberty: but who will restore life
to my poor brother; who my poor brother to me? He was sent hither by the German armies, with
propositions for our common good; and for this, was last night butchered by that same Blesus,
who in the murder employed his gladiators, bloody men, whom he purposely entertains and arms
for our common execution. Where, oh where, Blesus, hast thou thrown his unoffending and mangled
corpse? Even open enemies do not inhumanly deny burial to the slain: when I have satiated my
sorrow with a thousand kisses, and a flood of tears; command me also to be murdered, that these
our brethren may together bury my poor brother and me, slaughtered both as victims, yet both
guiltless of any crime but that of studying the common interest of the legions."

He inflamed those his complaints and expostulations with affecting sighs and lamentations,
beat his breast, tore his face, and showed all the symptoms of anguish. Then those who carried
him giving way, he threw himself headlong at the feet of his companions; and thus prostrate
and supplicating, in them raised such a spirit of commiseration and such a storm of vengeance,
that one party of them instantly seized and bound the General's gladiators; another, the rest
of his family; while many ran and dispersed themselves to search for the corpse: and had it
not been quickly manifest that there was no corpse to be found, that the slaves of Blesus had
upon the rack cleared themselves, and that Vibulenus never had any brother; they had gone nigh
to have sacrificed the General. As it was, they expulsed the Camp-Marshal and Tribunes; and
as they fled, plundered their baggage: they likewise put to death Lucilius the Centurion, whom
they had sarcastically named Cedo Alteram, because when upon the back of a soldier he had broken
one wand, he was wont to call for another, and then a third. The other Centurions lurked in
concealment, all but Julius Clemens, who for his prompt capacity was saved, in order to manage
the negotiations of the soldiers: even two of the legions, the eighth and the fifteenth, were
ready to turn their swords upon each other; and had, but for the ninth: one Sirpicus, a centurion,
was the subject of the quarrel; him the eighth required to be put to death, and the fifteenth
protected him; but the ninth interposed with entreaties to both, and with threats to those
who would not listen to prayers.

Tiberius, however, close and impenetrable, and ever labouring to smother all melancholy tidings,
was yet driven by those from Pannonia, to despatch his son Drusus thither, accompanied by the
principal nobility and guarded by two Praetorian cohorts; but charged with no precise instructions,
only to adapt his measures to the present exigency: the cohorts were strengthened with an extraordinary
addition of chosen men, with the greatest part of the Praetorian horse, and main body of the
German, then the Emperor's guards. Aelius Sejanus, lately joined with his father Strabo in
the command of the Praetorian bands, was also sent, not only as Governor to the young Prince,
but as his credit with the Emperor was known to be mighty, to deal with the revolters by promises
and terrors. When Drusus approached, the legions, for show of respect, marched out to meet
him; not with the usual symptoms and shouts of joy, nor with gay ensigns and arms glittering,
but in a dress and accoutrements hideous and squalid: in their countenances too, though composed
to sadness, were seen greater marks of sullenness and contumacy.

As soon as he was within the camp, they secured the entrances with guards, and in several quarters
of it placed parties upon duty: the rest crowded about the tribunal of Drusus, who stood beckoning
with his hand for silence. Here as often as they surveyed their own numbers and met one another's
resentful looks, they uttered their rage in horrible cries: again, when upon the tribunal they
beheld Caesar, awe and trembling seized them: now, there prevailed an hollow and inarticulate
murmur; next, a furious clamour; then suddenly a dead silence: so that, by a hasty succession
of opposite passions, they were at once dismayed and dreadful. When at last the uproar was
stayed, he read his father's letters, who in them declared, "that he would take an affectionate
care of the brave and invincible legions by whom he had sustained successfully so many wars;
and, as soon as his grief was a little abated, deal with the Senate about their demands; in
the meantime he had sent them his son, on purpose to make them forthwith all the concessions,
which could instantly be made them: the rest were to be reserved for the Senate, the proper
distributers of rewards and punishments by a right altogether unalienable."

The assembly answered, that to Julius Clemens they had intrusted what to speak in their name:
he began with their demands, "to be discharged after sixteen years' service, to have the reward
which, for past services upon that discharge, they claimed; their pay to be increased to a
Roman denarius; the veterans to be no longer detained under their ensigns." When Drusus urged,
that wholly in the judgment of the Senate and his father, these matters rested he was interrupted
by their clamours: "To what purpose came he; since he could neither augment their pay, nor
alleviate their grievances? and while upon them every officer was allowed to inflict blows
and death, the son of their Emperor wanted power to relieve them by one beneficent action.
The policy this of the late reign, when Tiberius frustrated every request of the soldiers,
by referring all to Augustus; now Drusus was come with the same artifices to delude them: were
they never to have a higher visit than from the children of their Prince? It was, indeed, unaccountable,
that to the Senate the Emperor should leave no part in the direction of the army, only the
rewarding of the soldiery: ought not the same Senate to be consulted as often as a battle was
to be fought, or a private man to be punished? or, were their recompenses to be adjudged by
many masters, but their punishments to remain without any restraint or moderator whatsoever?"

At last they abandoned the tribunal, and with menaces and insults fell upon all they met belonging
to Drusus, either as guards or friends; meditating thus to provoke a quarrel, and an introduction
to blood. Chiefly enraged they were against Cneius Lentulus, as one for years and warlike renown
superior to any about the person of Drusus, and thence suspected to have hardened the Prince,
and been himself the foremost to despise these outrages in the soldiery: nor was it long after,
that as he was leaving Drusus, and from the foresight of danger returning to the winter quarters,
they surrounded him and demanded "whither he went? to the Emperor or Senate? there also to
exercise his enmity to the legions, and oppose their interest?" and instantly assaulted him
with stones. He was already covered with wounds and blood, and awaiting certain assassination,
when the troops attending Drusus flew to his assistance and saved him.

The following night had a formidable aspect, and threatened the speedy eruption of some tragical
vengeance; when a phenomenon intervened and assuaged all. Hence they strove to charm and revive
her with sounds, and by ringing upon brazen metal, and an uproar of trumpets and cornets, made
a vehement bellowing. As she appeared brighter or darker, they exulted or lamented; but when
gathering clouds had utterly bereft them of her sight, and they believed her now buried in
everlasting darkness; then, as minds once thoroughly dismayed are pliant to superstition, they
bewailed "their own eternal sufferings thus portended, and that against their misdeeds the
angry Deities were contending." Drusus, who thought it behoved him to improve this disposition
of theirs, and to reap the fruits of wisdom from the operations of chance; ordered certain
persons to go round, and apply to them from tent to tent. For this purpose, he called and employed
the Centurion Julius Clemens, and whoever else were by honest methods acceptable to the multitude.
These insinuated themselves everywhere, with those who kept watch, or were upon patrol, or
guarded the gates; soothing all with hopes, and by terrors rousing them. "How long," said they,
"shall we hold the son of our Emperor thus besieged? Where will our broils and wild contentions
end? Shall we swear allegiance to Percennius and Vibulenus? Will Vibulenus and Percennius support
us with pay during our service, and reward us with lands when dismissed? In short, shall two
common men dispossess the Neros and the Drusi, and to themselves assume the Empire of the Roman
People? Let us be wiser; and as we were the last to revolt, be the first to relent. Such demands,
as comprise terms for all, are ever slowly accorded; but particulars may, when they please,
merit instant favour, and instantly receive it." These reasonings alarmed them, and filled
them with mutual jealousies. Presently the fresh soldiers forsook the veterans, and one legion
separated from another; then by degrees returned the love of duty and obedience. They relinquished
the guard of the gates: and the Eagles and other ensigns, which in the beginning of the tumult
they had thrown together, were now restored each to its distinct station.

Drusus, as soon as it was day, summoned an assembly, and though unskilled in speaking, yet
with a haughtiness inherent in his blood, rebuked their past and commended their present behaviour.
"With threats and terrors," he said, "it was impossible to subdue him; but if he saw them reclaimed
to submission, if from them he heard the language of supplicants, he would send to his father
to accept with a reconciled spirit the petitions of the legions," Hence, at their entreaty,
for their deputy to Tiberius the same Blesus was again despatched, and with him Lucius Apronius,
a Roman Knight of the cohort of Drusus; and Justus Catonius, a Centurion of the first order.
There followed great debates in the council of Drusus, while some advised "to suspend all proceeding
till the return of the deputies, and by a course of courtesy the while to soothe the soldiers;
others maintained, that remedies more potent must needs be applied: in a multitude, was to
be found nothing on this side extremes; always imperious where they are not awed, and to be
without danger despised when frightened: to their present terror from superstition was to be
added the dread of their General, by his dooming to death the authors of the sedition." Rather
prompt to rigorous counsels was the genius of Drusus: Vibulenus and Percennius were produced,
and by his command executed; it is by many recounted, that in his own tent they were secretly
despatched and buried; by others, that their bodies were ignominiously thrown over the entrenchments,
for a public spectacle of terror.

Search was then made for other remarkable incendiaries. Some were caught skulking without the
camp, and there by the Centurions or Praetorian soldiers slain; others were by their several
companies delivered up, as a proof of their own sincere faith. The consternation of the soldiers
was heightened by the precipitate accession of winter, with rains incessant and so violent,
that they were unable to stir from their tents, or maintain common intercourse, nay, scarce
to preserve their standards, assaulted continually by tempestuous winds and raging floods.
Dread besides of the angry Gods still possessed them; nor was it at random, they thought, that
such profane traitors were thus visited with black eclipses and roaring tempests; neither against
these their calamities was there other relief than the relinquishing of a camp by impiety contaminated
and accursed, and after expiation of their guilt returning to their several garrisons. The
eighth legion departed first; and then the fifteenth: the ninth, with earnest clamours, pressed
for continuing there till the letters from Tiberius arrived; but when deserted by the other
two, their courage failed, and by following of their own accord, they prevented the shame of
being forced. Drusus seeing order and tranquillity restored, without staying for the return
of the deputies, returned himself to Rome.

Almost at the same time, and from the same causes, the legions in Germany raised an insurrection,
with greater numbers, and thence with more fury. Passionate too were their hopes that Germanicus
would never brook the rule of another, but yield to the spirit of the legions, who had force
sufficient to bring the whole Empire under his sway. Upon the Rhine were two armies; that called
the higher, commanded by Caius Silius, Lieutenant- General; the lower, by Aulus Caecina: the
command in chief rested in Germanicus, then busy collecting the tribute in Gaul. The forces
however under Silius, with cautious ambiguity, watched the success of the revolt which others
began: for the soldiers of the lower army had broken out into open outrages, which took its
rise from the fifth legion, and the one- and-twentieth; who after them drew the first, and
twentieth. These were altogether upon the frontiers of the Ubians, passing the campaign in
utter idleness or light duty: so that upon the news that Augustus was dead, the whole swarm
of new soldiers lately levied in the city, men accustomed to the effeminacies of Rome, and
impatient of every military hardship, began to possess the ignorant minds of the rest with
many turbulent expectations, "that now was presented the lucky juncture for veterans to demand
entire dismission; the fresh soldiers, larger pay; and all, some mitigation of their miseries;
as also to return due vengeance for the cruelties of the Centurions." These were not the harangues
of a single incendiary, like Percennius amongst the Pannonian legions; nor uttered, as there,
in the ears of men who, while they saw before their eyes armies greater than their own, mutinied
with awe and trembling: but here was a sedition of many mouths, filled with many boasts, "that
in their hands lay the power and fate of Rome; by their victories the empire was enlarged,
and from them the Caesars took, as a compliment, the surname of Germanicus."

Neither did Caecina strive to restrain them. A madness so extensive had bereft him of all his
bravery and firmness. In this precipitate frenzy they rushed at once, with swords drawn, upon
the Centurions, the eternal objects of their resentment, and always the first victims to their
vengeance. Them they dragged to the earth, and upon each bestowed a terrible portion of sixty
blows; a number proportioned to that of Centurions in a legion. Then bruised, mangled, and
half expiring, as they were, they cast them all out of the camp, some into the stream of the
Rhine. Septimius, who had for refuge fled to the tribunal of Caecina, and lay clasping his
feet, was demanded with such imperious vehemence, that he was forced to be surrendered to destruction.
Cassius Cherea (afterwards famous to posterity for killing Caligula), then a young man of undaunted
spirit, and one of the Centurions, boldly opened himself a passage with his sword through a
crowd of armed foes striving to seize him. After this no further authority remained to the
Tribunes, none to the Camp-Marshals. The seditious soldiers were their own officers; set the
watch, appointed the guard, and gave all orders proper in the present exigency; hence those
who dived deepest into the spirit of the soldiery, gathered a special indication how powerful
and obdurate the present insurrection was like to prove; for in their conduct were no marks
of a rabble, where every man's will guides him, or the instigation of a few controls the whole.
Here, all at once they raged, and all at once kept silence; with so much concert and steadiness,
that you would have believed them under the sovereign direction of one.

To Germanicus the while, then receiving, as I have said, the tribute in Gaul, news were brought
of the decease of Augustus; whose grand-daughter Agrippina he had to wife, and by her many
children: he was himself the grandson of Livia, by her son Drusus, the brother of Tiberius;
but ever under heavy anxiety from the secret hate which his uncle and grandmother bore him:
hate the more virulent as its grounds were altogether unrighteous; for, dear and adored was
the memory of his father Drusus amongst the Roman People, and from him was firmly expected
that had he succeeded to the Empire, he would have restored public liberty: hence their zeal
for Germanicus, and of him the same hopes conceived; as from his youth he possessed a popular
spirit, and marvellous affability utterly remote from the comportment and address of Tiberius,
ever haughty and mysterious. The animosities too between the ladies administered fresh fuel;
while towards Agrippina, Livia was actuated by the despite natural to step-mothers: and over-tempestuous
was the indignation of Agrippina; only that her known chastity and love for her husband, always
gave her mind, however vehement, a virtuous turn.

But Germanicus, the nearer he stood to supreme rule, the more vigour he exerted to secure it
to Tiberius: to him he obliged the Sequanians, a neighbouring people, as also the several Belgic
cities, to swear present allegiance; and the moment he learnt the uproar of the legions, posted
thither: he found them advanced without the camp to receive him, with eyes cast down, in feigned
token of remorse. After he entered the entrenchments, instantly his ears were filled with plaints
and grievances, uttered in hideous and mixed clamours: nay, some catching his hand, as if they
meant to kiss it, thrust his fingers into their mouths, to feel their gums destitute of teeth;
others showed their limbs enfeebled, and bodies stooping under old age. As he saw the assembly
mixed at random, he commanded them "to range themselves into companies, thence more distinctly
to hear his answers; as also to place before them their several ensigns, that the cohorts at
least might be distinguished."

With slowness and reluctance it was, that they obeyed him; then beginning with an encomium
upon the "venerable memory of Augustus," he proceeded to the "many victories and many triumphs
of Tiberius," and with peculiar praises celebrated the "glorious and immortal deeds, which
with these very legions in Germany he had accomplished;" he next boasted the quiet state of
things, the consent of all Italy, the loyal faith of both the Gauls: and every quarter of the
Roman State exempt from disaffection and turbulence.

Thus far they listened with silence, at least with moderate murmuring; but the moment he touched
their sedition and questioned, "where now was the wonted modesty of soldiers? where the glory
of ancient discipline? whither had they chased their Tribunes, whither their Centurions?" to
a man, they stripped themselves to the skin, and there exposed the seams of their wounds and
bruises of their chastisements, in the rage of reproach. Then in the undistinguished voice
of uproar, they urged "the exactions for occasional exemptions, their scanty pay, and their
rigorous labours;" which they represented in a long detail: "ramparts to be reared, entrenchments
digged, trees felled and drawn, forage cut and carried, fuel prepared and fetched," with every
other article of toil required by the exigencies of war, or to prevent idleness in the soldiery.
Above all, from the veterans arose a cry most horrible: they enumerated thirty years or upwards
undergone in the service; "and besought that to men utterly spent he would administer respite,
nor suffer them to be beholden to death for the last relief from their toils; but discharge
them from a warfare so lasting and severe, and grant them the means of a comfortable recess."
Nay, some there were who of him required the money bequeathed them by Augustus; and towards
Germanicus uttering zealous vows, with omens of happy fortune, declared their cordial attachment
to his cause if he would himself assume the Empire. Here, as if already stained with their
treason, he leaped headlong from the Tribunal; but with swords drawn they opposed his departure,
and threatened his life, if he refused to return: yet, with passionate protestations that "he
would rather die than be a traitor," he snatched his sword from his side, and aiming full at
his breast, would have buried it there, had not those who were next him seized his hand and
by force restrained him. A cluster of soldiers in the extremity of the assembly exhorted him,
nay, what is incredible to hear, some particulars advancing nearer, exhorted him to strike
home: in truth one Calusidius, a common soldier, presented him his naked sword, and added,
"it is sharper than your own;" a behaviour which to the rest, outrageous as they were, seemed
savage, and of horrid example: hence the friends of Germanicus had time to snatch him away
to his tent.

It was here consulted what remedy to apply: for it was advised, that "ministers of sedition
were preparing to be despatched to the other army, to draw them too into a confederacy in the
revolt; that the capital of the Ubians was destined to be sacked; and if their hands were once
inured to plunder, they would break in, and ravage all Gaul." This dread was augmented by another:
the enemy knew of the sedition in the Roman army, and were ready to invade the Empire, if its
barrier the Rhine were left unguarded. Now, to arm the allies and the auxiliaries of Rome,
and lead them against the departing legions, was to rouse a civil war: severity was dangerous:
the way of largesses infamous; and alike threatening it was to the State to grant the turbulent
soldiers nothing, or yield them everything. After revolving every reason and objection, the
result was, to feign letters and directions from Tiberius, "that those who had served twenty
years should be finally discharged; such as served sixteen be under the ensign and privileges
of veterans, released from every duty but that of repulsing the enemy; and the legacy, which
they demanded, should be paid and doubled."

The soldiers, who perceived that, purely to evade present difficulty, the concessions were
forged, insisted to have them forthwith executed; and instantly the Tribunes despatched the
discharge of the veterans: that of the money was adjourned to their several winter quarters;
but the fifth legion, and the one-and-twentieth, refused to stir, till in that very camp they
were paid; so that out of the money reserved by himself and his friends for travailing expenses,
Germanicus was obliged to raise the sum. Caecina, Lieutenant-General, led the first legion
and twentieth back to the capital of the Ubians: an infamous march, when the plunder of their
General's coffers was carried amidst the ensigns and Roman Eagles. Germanicus, the while, proceeding
to the army in higher Germany, brought the second, thirteenth, and sixteenth legions to swear
allegiance without hesitation: to the fourteenth, who manifested some short suspense, he made
unasked a tender of their money, and a present discharge.

But a party of veterans which belonged to the disorderly legions, and then in garrison among
the Chaucians, as they began a sedition there, were somewhat quelled by the instant execution
of two of their body: an execution this, commanded by Maenius, Camp-Marshal, and rather of
good example, than done by competent authority. The tumult, however, swelling again with fresh
rage, he fled, but was discovered; so that, finding no safety in lurking, from his own bravery
he drew his defence, and declared "that to himself, who was only their Camp-Marshal, these
their outrages were not done, but done to the authority of Germanicus, their General, to the
majesty of Tiberius their Emperor." At the same time, braving and dismaying all that would
have stopped him, he fiercely snatched the colours, faced about towards the Rhine, and pronouncing
the doom of traitors and deserters to every man who forsook his ranks, brought them back to
their winter quarters, mutinous, in truth, but not daring to mutiny.

In the meantime the deputies from the Senate met Germanicus at the altar of the Ubians [Footnote:
Cologne.], whither in his return he was arrived. Two legions wintered there, the first and
twentieth, with the soldiers lately placed under the standard of veterans; men already under
the distractions of guilt and fear: and now a new terror possessed them, that these Senators
were come armed with injunctions to cancel every concession which they had by sedition extorted;
and, as it is the custom of the crowd to be ever charging somebody with the crimes suggested
by their own false alarms, the guilt of this imaginary decree they laid upon Minutius Plancus,
a Senator of consular dignity, and at the head of this deputation. In the dead of night, they
began to clamour aloud for the purple standard placed in the quarters of Germanicus, and, rushing
tumultuously to his gate, burst the doors, dragged the Prince out of his bed, and, with menaces
of present death, compelled him to deliver the standard. Then, as they roved about the camp,
they met the deputies, who, having learnt the outrage, were hastening to Germanicus: upon them
they poured a deluge of contumelies, and to present slaughter were devoting them, Plancus chiefly,
whom the dignity of his character had restrained from flight; nor in this mortal danger had
he other refuge than the quarters of the first legion, where, embracing the Eagle and other
ensigns, he sought sanctuary from the religious veneration ever paid them. But, in spite of
religion, had not Calpurnius, the Eagle-bearer, by force defeated the last violence of the
assault, in the Roman camp had been slain an ambassador of the Roman People, and with his blood
had been stained the inviolable altars of the Gods; a barbarity rare even in the camp of an
enemy. At last, day returning, when the General, and the soldiers, and their actions could
be distinguished, Germanicus entered the camp, and commanding Plancus to be brought, seated
him by himself upon the tribunal: he then inveighed against the late "pernicious frenzy, which
in it, he said, had fatality, and was rekindled by no despite in the soldiers, but by that
of the angry Gods." He explained the genuine purposes of that embassy, and lamented with affecting
eloquence "the outrage committed upon Plancus, altogether brutal and unprovoked; the foul violence
done to the sacred person of an Ambassador, and the mighty disgrace from thence derived upon
the legion." Yet as the assembly showed more stupefaction than calmness, he dismissed the deputies
under a guard of auxiliary horse.

During this affright, Germanicus was by all men censured, "that he retired not to the higher
army, whence he had been sure of ready obedience, and even of succour against the revolters:
already he had taken wrong measures more than enow, by discharging some, rewarding all, and
other tender counsels; if he despised his own safety, yet why expose his infant son, why his
wife big with child, to the fury of outrageous traitors, wantonly violating all the most sacred
rights amongst men? It became him at least to restore his wife and son safe to Tiberius and
to the State." He was long unresolved; besides Agrippina was averse to leave him, and urged,
that "she was the grand-daughter of Augustus, and it was below her spirit to shrink in a time
of danger." But embracing her and their little son, with great tenderness and many tears, he
prevailed with her to depart. Thus there marched miserably along a band of helpless women:
the wife of a great commander fled like a fugitive, and upon her bosom bore her infant son:
about her a troop of other ladies, dragged from their husbands, and drowned in tears, uttering
their heavy lamentations; nor weaker than theirs was the grief felt by all who remained.

These groans and tears, and this spectacle of woe, the appearances rather of a city stormed
and sacked, than of a Roman camp, that of Germanicus Caesar, victorious and flourishing, awakened
attention and inquiry in the soldiers: leaving their tents, they cried, "Whence these doleful
wailings? what so lamentable! so many ladies of illustrious quality, travelling thus forlorn;
not a Centurion to attend them; not a soldier to guard them; their General's wife amongst them,
undistinguished by any mark of her princely dignity; destitute of her ordinary train; frightened
from the Roman legions, and repairing, like an exile, for shelter to Treves, there to commit
herself to the faith of foreigners." Hence shame and commiseration seized them, and the remembrance
of her illustrious family, with that of her own virtues; the brave Agrippa her father; the
mighty Augustus her grandfather; the amiable Drusus her father-in-law, herself celebrated for
a fruitful bed, and of signal chastity: add the consideration of her little son, born in the
camp, nursed in the arms of the legions, and by themselves named Caligula, a military name
from the boots which of the same fashion with their own, in compliment to them, and to win
their affections, he frequently wore. But nothing so effectually subdued them as their own
envy towards the inhabitants of Treves: hence they all besought, all adjured, that she would
return to themselves, and with themselves remain: thus some stopped Agrippina; but the main
body returned with their entreaties to Germanicus, who, as he was yet in the transports of
grief and anger, addressed himself on this wise to the surrounding crowd.

"To me neither is my wife or son dearer than my father and the Commonwealth. But him doubtless
the majesty of his name will defend; and there are other armies, loyal armies, to defend the
Roman State. As to my wife and children, whom for your glory I could freely sacrifice, I now
remove them from your rage; that by my blood alone may be expiated whatever further mischief
your fury meditates; and that the murder of the great grandson of Augustus, the murder of the
daughter-in-law of Tiberius, may not be added to mine, nor to the blackness of your past guilt.
For, during these days of frenzy what has been too horrid for you to commit? What so sacred
that you have not violated? To this audience what name shall I give? Can I call you soldiers?
you who have beset with arms the son of your Emperor, confined him in your trenches, and held
him in a siege? Roman citizens can I call you? you who have trampled upon the supreme authority
of the Roman Senate? Laws religiously observed by common enemies, you have profaned; violated
the sacred privileges, and persons of Ambassadors; broken the laws of nations. The deified
Julius Caesar quelled a sedition in his army by a single word: he called all who refused to
follow him, townsmen. The deified Augustus, when, after the battle of Actium, the legions who
won it lapsed into mutiny, terrified them into submission by the dignity of his presence and
an awful look. These, it is true, are mighty and immortal names, whom I dare not emulate; but,
as I am their descendant, and inherit their blood, should the armies in Syria and Spain reject
my orders, and contemn my authority, I should think their behaviour strange and base: are not
the present legions under stronger ties than those in Syria and Spain? You are the first and
the twentieth legions; the former enrolled by Tiberius himself; the other his constant companions
in so many battles, his partners in so many victories, and by him enriched with so many bounties!
Is this the worthy return you make your Emperor, and late Commander, for the distinction he
has shown you, for the favour he has done you, and for his liberalities towards you? And shall
I be the author of such tidings to him; such heavy tidings in the midst of congratulations
and happy accounts from every province in the Empire? Must it be my sad task to acquaint him
that his own new levies, as well as his own veterans who long fought under him; these not appeased
by their discharge, and neither of them satiated with the money given them, are both still
combined in a furious mutiny? must I tell him that here and only here the Centurions are butchered,
the Tribunes driven away, the Ambassadors imprisoned; that with blood the camp is stained,
and the rivers flow with blood; and that for me his son, I hold a precarious life at the mercy
of men, who owe me duty, and practise enmity?

"Why did you the other day, oh unseasonable and too officious friends! why did you leave me
at their mercy by snatching from me my sword, when with it I would have put myself out of their
power? He who offered me his own sword showed greater kindness, and was more my friend. I would
then have fallen happy; happy that my death would have hid from mine eyes so many horrible
crimes since committed by my own army; and for you, you would have chosen another general,
such a general, no doubt, as would have left my death unpunished, but still one who would have
sought vengeance for that of Varus and the three legions; for the Gods are too just to permit
that ever the Belgians, however generously they offer their service, shall reap the credit
and renown of retrieving the glory of the Roman name, and of reducing in behalf of Rome the
German nations her foes. Filled with this passion for the glory of Rome, I here invoke thy
spirit now with the Gods, oh deified Augustus; and thy image interwoven in the ensigns, and
thy memory, oh deceased father. Let thy revered spirit, oh Augustus, let thy loved image and
memory, oh Drusus, still dear to these legions, vindicate them from this guilty stain, this
foul infamy of leaving to foreigners the honour of defending and avenging the Roman State.
They are Romans; they already feel the remorses of shame; they are already stimulated with
a sense of honour: improve, oh improve this generous disposition in them; that thus inspired
they may turn the whole tide of their civil rage to the destruction of their common enemy.
And for you, my fellow-soldiers, in whom I behold all the marks of compunction, other countenances,
and minds happily changed; if you mean to restore to the Senate its ambassadors; to your Emperor
your sworn obedience; to me, your general, my wife and son; be it the first instance of your
duty, to fly the contagious company of incendiaries, to separate the sober from the seditious:
this will be a faithful sign of remorse, this a firm pledge of fidelity."

These words softened them into supplicants: they confessed that all his reproaches were true;
they besought him to punish the guilty and malicious, to pardon the weak and misled, and to
lead them against the enemy; to recall his wife, to bring back his son, nor to suffer the fosterling
of the legions to be given in hostage to the Gauls. Against the recalling of Agrippina he alleged
the advance of winter, and her approaching delivery; but said, that his son should return,
and that to themselves he left to execute what remained further to be executed. Instantly,
with changed resentments, they ran, and seizing the most seditious, dragged them in bonds to
Caius Cretonius, commander of the first legion, who judged and punished them in this manner.
The legions, with their swords drawn, surrounded the tribunal; from thence the prisoner was
by a Tribune exposed to their view, and if they proclaimed him guilty, cast headlong down,
and executed even by his fellow-soldiers, who rejoiced in the execution, because by it they
thought their own guilt to be expiated: nor did Germanicus restrain them, since on themselves
remained the cruelty and reproach of the slaughter committed without any order of his. The
veterans followed the same example of vengeance, and were soon after ordered into Rhetia, in
appearance to defend that province against the invading Suevians; in reality, to remove them
from a camp still horrible to their sight, as well in the remedy and punishment, as from the
memory of their crime. Germanicus next passed a scrutiny upon the conduct and characters of
the Centurions: before him they were cited singly; and each gave an account of his name, his
company, country, the length of his service, exploits in war, and military presents, if with
any he had been distinguished: if the Tribunes or his legion bore testimony of his diligence
and integrity, he kept his post; upon concurring complaint of his avarice or cruelty, he was
degraded.

Thus were the present commotions appeased; but others as great still subsisted, from the rage
and obstinacy of the fifth and twenty-first legions. They were in winter quarters sixty miles
off, in a place called the Old Camp, [Footnote: Xanten.] and had first began the sedition:
nor was there any wickedness so horrid, that they had not perpetrated; nay, at this time, neither
terrified by the punishment, nor reclaimed by the reformation of their fellow-soldiers, they
persevered in their fury. Germanicus therefore determined to give them battle, if they persisted
in their revolt; and prepared vessels, arms, and troops to be sent down the Rhine.

Before the issue of the sedition in Illyricum was known at Rome, tidings of the uproar in the
German legions arrived; hence the city was filled with much terror; and hence against Tiberius
many complaints, "that while with feigned consultations and delays he mocked the Senate and
people, once the great bodies of the estate, but now bereft of power and armies, the soldiery
were in open rebellion, one too mighty and stubborn to be quelled by two princes so young in
years and authority: he ought at first to have gone himself, and awed them with the majesty
of imperial power, as doubtless they would have returned to duty upon the sight of their Emperor,
a Prince of consummate experience, the sovereign disposer of rewards and severity. Did Augustus,
even under the pressure of old age and infirmities, take so many journeys into Germany? and
should Tiberius, in the vigour of his life, when the same or greater occasions called him thither,
sit lazily in the Senate to watch senators and cavil at words? He had fully provided for the
domestic servitude of Rome; he ought next to cure the licentiousness of the soldiers, to restrain
their turbulent spirits, and reconcile them to a life of peace."

But all these reasonings and reproaches moved not Tiberius: he was determined not to depart
from the capital, the centre of power and affairs; nor to chance or peril expose his person
and empire. In truth, many and contrary difficulties pressed and perplexed him: "the German
army was the stronger; that of Pannonia nearer; the power of both the Gauls supported the former;
the latter was at the gates of Italy. Now to which should he repair first? and would not the
last visited be inflamed by being postponed? But by sending one of his sons to each, the equal
treatment of both was maintained; as also the majesty of the supreme power, which from distance
ever derived most reverence. Besides, the young princes would be excused, if to their father
they referred such demands as were for them improper to grant; and if they disobeyed Germanicus
and Drusus, his own authority remained to appease or punish them: but if once they had contemned
their Emperor himself, what other resource was behind?" However, as if he had been upon the
point of marching, he chose his attendance, provided his equipage, and prepared a fleet: but
by various delays and pretences, sometimes that of the winter, sometimes business, he deceived
for a time even the wisest men; much longer the common people, and the provinces for a great while.

Germanicus had already drawn together his army, and was prepared to take vengeance on the seditious:
but judging it proper to allow space for trial, whether they would follow the late example,
and consulting their own safety do justice upon one another, he sent letters to Caecina, "that
he himself approached, with a powerful force; and if they prevented him not, by executing the
guilty, he would put all indifferently to the slaughter." These letters Caecina privately read
to the principal officers, and such of the camp as the sedition had not tainted; besought them
"to redeem themselves from death, and all from infamy; urged that in peace alone reason was
heard and merit distinguished; but in the rage of war the blind steel spared the innocent no
more than the guilty." The officers, having tried those they believed for their purpose, and
found the majority still to persevere in their duty, did, in concurrence with the General,
settle the time for falling with the sword upon the most notoriously guilty and turbulent.
Upon a particular signal given they rushed into their tents and butchered them, void as they
were of all apprehension; nor did any but the centurions and executioners know whence the massacre
began, or where it would end.

This had a different face from all the civil slaughters that ever happened: it was a slaughter
not of enemies upon enemies, nor from different and opposite camps, nor in a day of battle;
but of comrades upon comrades, in the same tents where they ate together by day, where they
slept together by night. From this state of intimacy they flew into mortal enmity, and friends
launched their darts at friends: wounds, outcries, and blood were open to view; but the cause
remained hid: wild chance governed the rest, and several innocents were slain. For the criminals,
when they found against whom all this fury was bent, had also betaken themselves to their arms;
neither did Caecina, nor any of the Tribunes, intervene to stay the rage; so that the soldiers
had full permission to vengeance, and a licentious satiety of killing. Germanicus soon after
entered the camp now full of blood and carcasses, and lamenting with many tears that "this
was not a remedy, but cruelty and desolation," commanded the bodies to be burnt. Their minds,
still tempestuous and bloody, were transported with sudden eagerness to attack the foe, as
the best expiation of their tragical fury: nor otherwise, they thought, could the ghosts of
their butchered brethren be appeased, than by receiving in their own profane breasts a chastisement
of honourable wounds. Germanicus fell in with the ardour of the soldiers, and laying a bridge
upon the Rhine, marched over twelve thousand legionary soldiers, twenty-six cohorts of the
allies, and eight regiments of horse; men all untainted in the late sedition.

The Germans rejoiced, not far off, at this vacation of war, occasioned first by the death of
Augustus, and afterwards by intestine tumults in the camp; but the Romans by a hasty march
passed through the Caesian woods, and levelling the barrier formerly begun by Tiberius, upon
it pitched their camp. In the front and rear they were defended by a palisade; on each side
by a barricade of the trunks of trees felled. From thence, beginning to traverse gloomy forests,
they stopped to consult which of two ways they should choose, the short and frequented, or
the longest and least known, and therefore unsuspected by the foe: the longest way was chosen;
but in everything else despatch was observed; for by the scouts intelligence was brought that
the Germans did, that night, celebrate a festival with great mirth and revelling. Hence Caecina
was commanded to advance with the cohorts without their baggage, and to clear a passage through
the forest: at a moderate distance followed the legions; the clearness of the night facilitated
the march, and they arrived at the villages of the Marsians, which with guards they presently
invested. The Germans were even yet under the effects of their debauch, scattered here and
there, some in bed, some lying by their tables; no watch placed, no apprehension of an enemy.
So utterly had their false security banished all order and care; and they were under no dread
of war, without enjoying peace, other than the deceitful and lethargic peace of drunkards.

The legions were eager for revenge; and Germanicus, to extend their ravage, divided them into
four battalions. The country was wasted by fire and sword fifty miles round; nor sex nor age
found mercy; places sacred and profane had the equal lot of destruction, all razed to the ground,
and with them the temple of Tanfana, of all others the most celebrated amongst these nations:
nor did all this execution cost the soldiers a wound, while they only slew men half asleep,
disarmed, or dispersed. This slaughter roused the Bructerans, the Tubantes, and the Usipetes;
and they beset the passes of the forest, through which the army was to return: an event known
to Germanicus, and he marched in order of battle. The auxiliary cohorts and part of the horse
led the van, followed close by the first legion; the baggage was in the middle; the twenty-first
legion closed the left wing, and the fifth the right; the twentieth defended the rear; and
after them marched the rest of the allies. But the enemy stirred not, till the body of the
army entered the wood: they then began lightly to insult the front and wings; and at last,
with their whole force, fell upon the rear. The light cohorts were already disordered by the
close German bands, when Germanicus riding up to the twentieth legion, and exalting his voice,
"This was the season," he cried, "to obliterate the scandal of sedition: hence they should
fall resolutely on, and into sudden praise convert their late shame and offence." These words
inflamed them: at one charge they broke the enemy, drove them out of the wood, and slaughtered
them in the plain. In the meanwhile, the front passed the forest, and fortified the camp: the
rest of the march was uninterrupted; and the soldiers, trusting to the merit of their late
exploits, and forgetting at once past faults and terrors, were placed in winter quarters.

The tidings of these exploits affected Tiberius with gladness and anguish: he rejoiced that
the sedition was suppressed; but that Germanicus had, by discharging the veterans, by shortening
the term of service to the rest, and by largesses to all, gained the hearts of the army, as
well as earned high glory in war, proved to the Emperor matter of torture. To the Senate, however,
he reported the detail of his feats, and upon his valour bestowed copious praises, but in words
too pompous and ornamental to be believed dictated by his heart. It was with more brevity that
he commended Drusus, and his address in quelling the sedition of Illyricum, but more cordially
withal, and in language altogether sincere; and even to the Pannonian legions he extended all
the concessions made by Germanicus to his own.

There was this year an admission of new rites, by the establishment of another College of Priests,
one sacred to the deity of Augustus; as formerly Titus Tatius, to preserve the religious rites
of the Sabines, had founded the fraternity of Titian Priests. To fill the society, one-and-
twenty, the most considerable Romans were drawn by lot, and to them added Tiberius, Drusus,
Claudius, and Germanicus. The games in honour of Augustus began then first to be embroiled
by emulation among the players, and the strife of parties in their behalf. Augustus had countenanced
these players and their art, in complaisance to Maecenas, who was mad in love with Bathyllus
the comedian; nor to such favourite amusements of the populace had he any aversion himself;
he rather judged it an acceptable courtesy to mingle with the multitude in these their popular
pleasures. Different was the temper of Tiberius, different his politics: to severer manners,
however, he durst not yet reduce the people, so many years indulged in licentious gaieties.

In the consulship of Drusus Caesar and Caius Norbanus, a triumph was decreed to Germanicus,
while the war still subsisted. He was preparing with all diligence to prosecute it the following
summer; but began much sooner by a sudden irruption early in the spring into the territories
of the Cattans: an anticipation of the campaign, which proceeded from the hopes given him of
dissension amongst the enemy, caused by the opposite parties of Arminius and Segestes; two
men signally known to the Romans upon different accounts; the last for his firm faith, the
first for faith violated. Arminius was the incendiary of Germany; but by Segestes had been
given repeated warnings of an intended revolt, particularly during the festival immediately
preceding the insurrection: he had even advised Varus "to secure himself and Arminius, and
all the other chiefs; for that the multitude, thus bereft of their leaders, would dare to attempt
nothing; and Varus have time to distinguish crimes and such as committed none." But by his
own fate, and the sudden violence of Arminius, Varus fell. Segestes, though by the weight and
unanimity of his nation he was forced into the war, yet remained at constant variance with
Arminius: a domestic quarrel too heightened their hate, as Arminius had carried away the daughter
of Segestes, already betrothed to another; and the same relations, which amongst friends prove
bonds of tenderness, were fresh stimulations of wrath to an obnoxious son and an offended father.

Upon these encouragements, Germanicus to the command of Caecina committed four legions, five
thousand auxiliaries, and some bands of Germans, dwellers on this side the Rhine, drawn suddenly
together; he led himself as many legions with double the number of allies, and erecting a fort
in Mount Taunus, [Footnote: Near Homburg.] upon the old foundations of one raised by his father,
rushed full march against the Cattans; having behind him left Lucius Apronius, to secure the
ways from the fury of inundations: for as the roads were then dry and the rivers low, events
in that climate exceeding rare, he had without check expedited his march; but against his return
apprehended the violence of rains and floods. Upon the Cattans he fell with such surprise,
that all the weak through sex or age were instantly taken or slaughtered: their youth, by swimming
over the Adrana, [Footnote: Eder.] escaped, and attempted to force the Romans from building
a bridge to follow them, but by dint of arrows and engines were repulsed; and then, having
in vain tried to gain terms of peace, some submitted to Germanicus; the rest abandoned their
villages and dwellings, and dispersed themselves in the woods. Mattium, [Footnote: Maden.]
the capital of the nation, he burnt, ravaged all the open country, and bent his march to the
Rhine; nor durst the enemy harass his rear, an usual practice of theirs, when sometimes they
fly more through craft than affright. The Cheruscans indeed were addicted to assist the Cattans,
but terrified from attempting it by Caecina, who moved about with his forces from place to
place; and by routing the Marsians who had dared to engage him, restrained all their efforts.

Soon after arrived deputies from Segestes, praying relief against the combination and violence
of his countrymen, by whom he was held besieged; as more powerful amongst them than his was
the credit of Arminius, since it was he who had advised the war. The genius this of barbarians,
to judge that men are to be trusted in proportion as they are fierce, and in public commotions
ever to prefer the most resolute. To the other deputies Segestes had added Segimundus, his
son; but the young man faltered a while, as his own heart accused him; for that the year when
Germany revolted, he, who had been by the Romans created Priest of the altar of the Ubians,
rent the sacerdotal tiara and fled to the revolters: yet, encouraged by the Roman clemency,
he undertook the execution of his father's orders, was himself graciously received, and then
conducted with a guard to the frontiers of Gaul. Germanicus led back his army to the relief
of Segestes, and was rewarded with success. He fought the besiegers, and rescued him with a
great train of his relations and followers; amongst them too were ladies of illustrious rank,
particularly the wife of Arminius, the same who was the daughter of Segestes: a lady more of
the spirit of her husband than that of her father; a spirit so unsubdued, that from her eyes
captivity forced not a tear, nor from her lips a breath in the style of a supplicant: not a
motion of her hands, nor a look escaped her; but, fast across her breast she held her arms,
and upon her heavy womb her eyes were immovably fixed. There were likewise carried Roman spoils
taken at the slaughter of Varus and his army, and then divided as prey amongst many of those
who were now prisoners: at the same time appeared Segestes, of superior stature; and from a
confidence in his good understanding with the Romans, undaunted. In this manner he spoke:

"It is not the first day this, that to the Roman People I have approved my faith and adherence:
from the moment I was by the deified Augustus presented with the freedom of the city, I have
continued by your interest to choose my friends, by your interest to denominate my enemies;
from no hate of mine to my native country (for odious are traitors even to the party they embrace),
but because the same measures were equally conducing to the benefit of the Romans and of the
Germans; and I was rather for peace than war. For this reason to Varus, the then General, I
applied, with an accusation against Arminius, who from me had ravished my daughter, and with
you violated the faith of leagues: but growing impatient with the slowness and inactivity of
Varus, and well apprised how little security was to be hoped from the laws, I pressed him to
seize myself, and Arminius, and his accomplices: witness that fatal night, to me I wish it
had been the last! more to be lamented than defended are the sad events which followed. I moreover
cast Arminius into irons, and was myself cast into irons by his faction; and as soon as to
you, Caesar, I could apply, you see I prefer old engagements to present violence, and tranquillity
to combustions, with no view of my own to interest or reward, but to banish from me the imputation
of perfidiousness. For the German nation, too, I would thus become a mediator, if peradventure
they will choose rather to repent than be destroyed: for my son, I intreat you, have mercy
upon his youth, and pardon his error; that my daughter is your prisoner by force I own: in
your breast it wholly lies under which character you will treat her, whether as one by Arminius
impregnated, or by me begotten." The answer of Germanicus was gracious: he promised indemnity
to his children and kindred, and to himself a safe retreat in one of the old provinces; then
returned with his army, and by the direction of Tiberius, received the title of Imperator.
The wife of Arminius brought forth a male child, and the boy was brought up at Ravenna; his
unhappy conflicts afterwards, with the contumelious insults of fortune, will be remembered
in their place.

The desertion of Segestes being divulged, with his gracious reception from Germanicus, affected
his countrymen variously; with hope or anguish, as they were prone or averse to the war. Naturally
violent was the spirit of Arminius, and now, by the captivity of his wife, by the fate of his
child doomed to bondage though yet unborn, enraged even to distraction: he flew about amongst
the Cheruscans, calling them to arms; to arm against Segestes, to arm against Germanicus. Invectives
followed his fury; "A blessed father this Segestes," he cried! "a mighty general this Germanicus!
invincible warriors these Romans! so many troops have made prisoner of a woman. It is not thus
that I conquer; before me three legions fell, and three lieutenant-generals. Open and honourable
is my method of war, nor waged with big-bellied women, but against men and arms; and treason
is none of my weapons. Still to be seen are the Roman standards in the German groves, there
by me hung up and devoted to our country Gods. Let Segestes live a slave in a conquered province;
let him to his son recover a foreign priesthood: with the German nations he can never obliterate
his reproach, that through him they have seen between the Elbe and Rhine rods and axes, and
the Roman toga. To other nations who know not the Roman domination, executions and tributes
are also unknown; evils which we too have cast off, in spite of that Augustus now dead and
enrolled with the Deities; in spite too of Tiberius, his chosen successor: let us not after
this dread a mutinous army, and a boy without experience, their commander; but if you love
your country, your kindred, your ancient liberty and laws, better than tyrants and new colonies,
let Arminius rather lead you to liberty and glory, than the wicked Segestes to the infamy of
bondage."

By these stimulations, not the Cheruscans only were roused, but all the neighbouring nations;
and into the confederacy was drawn Inguiomerus, paternal uncle to Arminius, a man long since
in high credit with the Romans: hence a new source of fear to Germanicus, who, to avoid the
shock of their whole forces, and to divert the enemy, sent Caecina with forty Roman cohorts
to the river Amisia, [Footnote: Ems.] through the territories of the Bructerans. Pedo the Prefect
led the cavalry by the confines of the Frisians: he himself, on the lake, [Footnote: The Zuyder
Zee.] embarked four legions; and upon the bank of the said river the whole body met, foot,
horse, and fleet. The Chaucians, upon offering their assistance, were taken into the service;
but the Bructerans, setting fire to their effects and dwellings, were routed by Stertinius,
by Germanicus despatched against them with a band lightly armed. As this party were engaged
between slaughter and plunder, he found the Eagle of the nineteenth legion lost in the overthrow
of Varus. The army marched next to the farthest borders of the Bructerans, and the whole country
between the rivers Amisia and Luppia [Footnote: Lippe.] was laid waste. Not far hence lay the
forest of Teutoburgium, and in it the bones of Varus and the legions, by report still unburied.

Hence Germanicus became inspired with a tender passion to pay the last offices to the legions
and their leader; the like tenderness also affected the whole army. They were moved with compassion,
some for the fate of their friends, others for that of their relations here tragically slain;
they were struck with the doleful casualties of war, and the sad lot of humanity. Caecina was
sent before to examine the gloomy recesses of the forest; to lay bridges over the pools; and
upon the deceitful marshes, causeways. The army entered the doleful solitude, hideous to sight,
hideous to memory. First they saw the camp of Varus, wide in circumference; and the three distinct
spaces, allotted to the different Eagles, showed the number of the legions. Further, they beheld
the ruinous entrenchment, and the ditch nigh choked up: in it the remains of the army were
supposed to have made their last effort, and in it to have found their graves. In the open
fields lay their bones all bleached and bare, some separate, some on heaps; just as they had
happened to fall, flying for their lives, or resisting unto death. Here were scattered the
limbs of horses, there pieces of broken javelins; and the trunks of trees bore the skulls of
men. In the adjacent groves were the savage altars; where, of the tribunes and principal centurions,
the barbarians had made a horrible immolation. Those who survived the slaughter, having escaped
from captivity and the sword, related the sad particulars to the rest: "Here the commanders
of the legions were slain; there we lost the Eagles; here Varus had his first wound; there
he gave himself another, and perished by his own unhappy hand. In that place, too, stood the
tribunal whence Arminius harangued; in this quarter, for the execution of his captives, he
erected so many gibbets; in that such a number of funeral trenches were digged; and with these
circumstances of pride and despite he insulted the ensigns and Eagles."

Thus the Roman army buried the bones of the three legions, six years after the slaughter: nor
could any one distinguish whether he gathered the particular remains of a stranger, or those
of a kinsman; but all considered the whole as their friends, the whole as their relations;
with heightened resentments against the foe, at once sad and revengeful. In this pious office,
so acceptable to the dead, Germanicus was a partner in the woe of the living; and upon the
common tomb laid the first sod: a proceeding not liked by Tiberius; whether it were that upon
every action of Germanicus he put a perverse meaning, or believed that the affecting spectacle
of the unburied slain would sink the spirit of the army, and heighten their terror of the enemy;
as also that "a general vested, as Augur, with the intendency of religious rites, became defiled
by touching the solemnities of the dead."

Arminius, retiring into desert and pathless places, was pursued by Germanicus; who, as soon
as he reached him, commanded the horse to advance, and dislodge the enemy from the post they
had possessed. Arminius, having directed his men to keep close together, and draw near to the
woods, wheeled suddenly about, and to those whom he had hid in the forest gave the signal to
rush out: the Roman horse, now engaged by a new army, became disordered, and to their relief
some cohorts were sent, but likewise broken by the press of those that fled; and great was
the consternation so many ways increased. The enemy too were already pushing them into the
morass, a place well known to the pursuers, as to the unapprised Romans it had proved pernicious,
had not Germanicus drawn out the legions in order of battle. Hence the enemy became terrified,
our men reassured, and both retired with equal loss and advantage. Germanicus presently after
returning with the army to the river Amisia, reconducted the legions, as he had brought them,
in the fleet: part of the horse were ordered to march along the sea-shore to the Rhine. Caecina,
who led his own men, was warned, that though he was to return through unknown roads, yet he
should with all speed pass the causeway called the long bridges: it is a narrow track this,
between vast marshes, and formerly raised by Lucius Domitius. The marshes themselves are of
an uncertain soil, here full of mud, there of heavy sticking clay, or traversed with various
currents. Round about are woods which rise gently from the plain, and were already filled with
soldiers by Arminius; who, by shorter ways and a running march, had arrived there before our
men, who were loaded with arms and baggage. Caecina, who was perplexed how at once to repair
the causeway decayed by time, and to repulse the foe, resolved at last to encamp in the place,
that whilst some were employed in the work, others might maintain the fight.

The Barbarians strove violently to break our station, and to fall upon the entrenchers: they
harassed our men, assaulted the works, changed their attacks, and pushed everywhere. The Cheruscans,
on the contrary, were inured to encounters in the bogs; their persons tall, their spears long,
such as could wound at a distance. At last the legions, already yielding, were by night redeemed
from an unequal combat; but night interrupted not the activity of the Germans, become by success
indefatigable. Without refreshing themselves with sleep, they diverted all the courses of the
springs which rise in the neighbouring mountains, and turned them into the plains: thus the
Roman camp was flooded, the work, as far as they had carried it, overturned, and the labour
of the poor soldiers renewed and doubled. To Caecina this year proved the fortieth of his sustaining
as officer or soldier the functions of arms; a man in all the vicissitudes of war, prosperous
or disastrous, well experienced and thence undaunted. Weighing, therefore, with himself all
probable events and expedients, he could devise no other than that of restraining the enemy
to the woods, till he had sent forward the wounded men and baggage; for, from the mountains
to the marshes there stretched a plain fit only to hold a little army: to this purpose the
legions were thus appointed; the fifth had the right wing, and the one-and-twentieth the left;
the first led the van; the twentieth defended the rear.

A restless night it was to both armies, but in different ways; the Barbarians feasted and caroused,
and with songs of triumph, or with horrid and threatening cries, filled all the plain and echoing
woods. Amongst the Romans were feeble fires, sad silence, or broken words; they leaned drooping
here and there against the pales, or wandered disconsolately about the tents, like men without
sleep, but not quite awake. A frightful dream too terrified the General; he thought he heard
and saw Quinctilius Varus, rising out of the marsh all besmeared with blood, stretching forth
his hand, and calling upon him; but that he rejected the call and pushed him away. At break
of day, the legions posted on the wings, through contumacy or affright, deserted their stations,
and took sudden possession of a field beyond the bogs. Neither did Arminius fall straight upon
them, however open they lay to his assault; but, when he perceived the baggage set fast in
mire and ditches, the soldiers above it disorderly and embarrassed, the ranks and ensigns in
confusion, and, as usual in a time of distress, every one in haste to save himself, but slow
to obey his officer, he then commanded his Germans to break in, "Behold," he vehemently cried;
"behold again Varus and his legions subdued by the same fate." Thus he cried, and instantly
with a select body broke quite through our forces, and chiefly against the horse directed his
havoc; so that the ground becoming slippery by their blood and the slime of the marsh, their
feet flew from them, and they cast their riders; then galloping and stumbling amongst the ranks,
they overthrew all they met, and trod to death all they overthrew. The greatest difficulty
was to maintain the Eagles; a storm of darts made it impossible to advance them, and the rotten
ground impossible to fix them. Caecina, while he sustained the fight, had his horse shot, and
having fallen was nigh taken; but the first legion saved him. Our relief came from the greediness
of the enemy, who ceased slaying to seize the spoil: hence the legions had respite to struggle
into the fair field and firm ground. Nor was here an end of their miseries: a palisade was
to be raised, an entrenchment digged; their instruments too for throwing up and carrying earth,
and their tools for cutting turf, were almost all lost; no tents for the soldiers; no remedies
for the wounded; and their food all defiled with mire or blood. As they shared it in sadness
amongst them, they lamented that mournful night, they lamented the approaching day, to so many
thousand men the last.

It happened that a horse, which had broke his collar as he strayed about, became frightened
with noise, and ran over some that were in his way: this raised such a consternation in the
camp, from a persuasion that the Germans in a body had forced an entrance, that all rushed
to the gates, especially to the postern, as the farthest from the foe, and safer for flight.
Caecina having found the vanity of their dread, but unable to stop them, either by his authority,
or by his prayers, or indeed by force, flung himself at last across the gate. This prevailed;
their awe and tenderness of their General restrained them from running over his body; and the
Tribunes and Centurions satisfied them the while, that it was a false alarm.

Then calling them together, and desiring them to hear him with silence, he reminded them of
their difficulties, and how to conquer them: "That for their lives they must be indebted to
their arms, but force was to be tempered with art; they must therefore keep close within their
camp, till the enemy, in hopes of taking it by storm, advanced; then make a sudden sally on
every side, and by this push they should break through the enemy, and reach the Rhine. But
if they fled, more forests remained to be traversed, deeper marshes to be passed, and the cruelty
of a pursuing foe to be sustained." He laid before them the motives and fruits of victory,
public rewards and glory, with every tender domestic consideration, as well as those of military
exploits and praise. Of their dangers and sufferings he said nothing. He next distributed horses,
first his own, then those of the Tribunes and leaders of the legions, to the bravest soldiers
impartially; that thus mounted they might begin the charge, followed by the foot.

Amongst the Germans there was not less agitation, from hopes of victory, greediness of spoil,
and the opposite counsels of their leaders. Arminius proposed "to let the Romans march off,
and to beset them in their march, when engaged in bogs and fastnesses." The advice of Inguiomerus
was fiercer, and thence by the Barbarians more applauded: he declared "for forcing the camp,
for that the victory would be quick, there would be more captives, and entire plunder." As
soon, therefore, as it was light, they rushed out upon the camp, cast hurdles into the ditch,
attacked and grappled the palisade. Upon it few soldiers appeared, and these seemed frozen
with fear; but as the enemy was in swarms, climbing the ramparts, the signal was given to the
cohorts; the cornets and trumpets sounded, and instantly, with shouts and impetuosity, they
issued out and begirt the assailants. "Here are no thickets," they scornfully cried; "no bogs;
but an equal field and impartial Gods." The enemy, who imagined few Romans remaining, fewer
arms, and an easy conquest, were struck with the sounding trumpets, with the glittering armour;
and every object of terror appeared double to them who expected none. They fell like men who,
as they are void of moderation in prosperity, are also destitute of conduct in distress. Arminius
forsook the fight unhurt; Inguiomerus grievously wounded; their men were slaughtered as long
as day and rage lasted. In the evening the legions returned, in the same want of provisions,
and with more wounds; but in victory they found all things, health, vigour, and abundance.

In the meantime a report had flown, that the Roman forces were routed, and an army of Germans
upon full march to invade Gaul; so that under the terror of this news there were those whose
cowardice would have emboldened them to have demolished the bridge upon the Rhine, had not
Agrippina restrained them from that infamous attempt. In truth, such was the undaunted spirit
of the woman, that at this time she performed all the duties of a general, relieved the necessitous
soldiers, upon the wounded bestowed medicines, and upon others clothes. Caius Plinius, the
writer of the German wars, relates that she stood at the end of the bridge, as the legions
returned, and accosted them with thanks and praises; a behaviour which sunk deep into the spirit
of Tiberius: "For that all this officiousness of hers," he thought, "could not be upright;
nor that it was against foreigners only she engaged the army. To the direction of the generals
nothing was now left, when a woman reviewed the companies, attended the Eagles, and to the
men distributed largesses: as if before she had shown but small tokens of ambitious designs,
in carrying her child (the son of the General) in a soldier's coat about the camp, with the
title of Caesar Caligula: already in greater credit with the army was Agrippina than the leaders
of the legions, in greater than their generals; and a woman had suppressed sedition, which
the authority of the Emperor was not able to restrain." These jealousies were inflamed, and
more were added, by Sejanus; one who was well skilled in the temper of Tiberius, and purposely
furnished him with sources of hatred, to lie hid in his heart, and be discharged with increase
hereafter.  Germanicus, in order to lighten the ships in which he had embarked his men, and
fit their burden to the ebbs and shallows, delivered the second and fourteenth legions to Publius
Vitellius, to lead them by land. Vitellius at first had an easy march on dry ground, or ground
moderately overflowed by the tide, when suddenly the fury of the north wind swelling the ocean
(a constant effect of the equinox) the legions were surrounded and tossed with the tide, and
the land was all on flood; the sea, the shore, the fields, had the same tempestuous face; no
distinction of depths from shallows; none of firm, from deceitful, footing. They were overturned
by the billows, swallowed down by the eddies; and horses, baggage, and drowned men encountered
each other, and floated together. The several companies were mixed at random by the waves;
they waded, now breast high, now up to the chin, and as the ground failed them, they fell,
some never more to rise. Their cries and mutual encouragements availed them nothing against
the prevailing and inexorable waves; no difference between the coward and the brave, the wise
and the foolish; none between circumspection and chance; but all were equally involved in the
invincible violence of the flood. Vitellius, at length struggling on to an eminence, drew the
legions thither, where they passed the cold night without fire, and destitute of every convenience;
most of them naked or lamed; not less miserable than men enclosed by an enemy; for even to
such remained the consolation of an honourable death; but here was destruction every way void
of glory. The land returned with the day, and they marched to the river Vidrus, [Footnote:
Weser.] whither Germanicus had gone with the fleet. There the two legions were again embarked,
when fame had given them for drowned; nor was their escape believed till Germanicus and the
army were seen to return.

Stertinius, who in the meanwhile had been sent before to receive Sigimerus, the brother of
Segestes (a prince willing to surrender himself) brought him and his son to the city of the
Ubians. Both were pardoned; the father freely, the son with more difficulty, because he was
said to have insulted the corpse of Varus. For the rest, Spain, Italy, and both the Gauls strove
with emulation to supply the losses of the army; and offered arms, horses, money, according
as each abounded. Germanicus applauded their zeal; but accepted only the horses and arms for
the service of the war. With his own money he relieved the necessities of the soldiers: and
to soften also by his kindness the memory of the late havoc, he visited the wounded, extolled
the exploits of particulars, viewed their wounds, with hopes encouraged some, with a sense
of glory animated others; and by affability and tenderness confirmed them all in devotion to
himself and to his fortune in war.

The ornaments of triumph were this year decreed to Aulus Caecina, Lucius Apronius, and Caius
Silius, for their services under Germanicus. The title of Father of his Country, so often offered
by the people to Tiberius, was rejected by him; nor would he permit swearing upon his acts,
though the same was voted by the Senate. Against it he urged "the instability of all mortal
things, and that the higher he was raised the more slippery he stood." But for all this ostentation
of a popular spirit, he acquired not the reputation of possessing it, for he had revived the
law concerning violated majesty; a law which, in the days of our ancestors, had indeed the
same name, but implied different arraignments and crimes, namely, those against the State;
as when an army was betrayed abroad, when seditions were raised at home; in short, when the
public was faithlessly administered and the majesty of the Roman People was debased: these
were actions, and actions were punished, but words were free. Augustus was the first who brought
libels under the penalties of this wrested law, incensed as he was by the insolence of Cassius
Severus, who had in his writings wantonly defamed men and ladies of illustrious quality. Tiberius
too afterwards, when Pompeius Macer, the Praetor, consulted him "whether process should be
granted upon this law?" answered, "That the laws must be executed." He also was exasperated
by satirical verses written by unknown authors and dispersed; exposing his cruelty, his pride,
and his mind naturally alienated from his mother.

It will be worth while to relate here the pretended crimes charged upon Falanius and Rubrius,
two Roman knights of small fortunes; that hence may be seen from what beginnings, and by how
much dark art of Tiberius, this grievous mischief crept in; how it was again restrained; how
at last it blazed out and consumed all things. To Falanius was objected by his accusers, that
"amongst the adorers of Augustus, who went in fraternities from house to house, he had admitted
one Cassius, a mimic and prostitute; and having sold his gardens, had likewise with them sold
the statue of Augustus." The crime imputed to Rubrius was, "That he had sworn falsely by the
divinity of Augustus." When these accusations were known to Tiberius, he wrote to the consuls,
"That Heaven was not therefore decreed to his father, that the worship of him might be a snare
to the citizens of Rome; that Cassius, the player, was wont to assist with others of his profession
at the interludes consecrated by his mother to the memory of Augustus: neither did it affect
religion, that his effigies, like other images of the Gods, were comprehended in the sale of
houses and gardens. As to the false swearing by his name, it was to be deemed the same as if
Rubrius had profaned the name of Jupiter; but to the Gods belonged the avenging of injuries
done to the Gods."

Not long after, Granius Marcellus, Praetor of Bithynia, was charged with high treason by his
own Quaestor, Cepio Crispinus; Romanus Hispo, the pleader, supporting the charge. This Cepio
began a course of life which, through the miseries of the times and the bold wickedness of
men, became afterwards famous: at first needy and obscure, but of a busy spirit, he made court
to the cruelty of the Prince by occult informations; and presently, as an open accuser, grew
terrible to every distinguished Roman. This procured him credit with one, hatred from all,
and made a precedent to be followed by others, who from poverty became rich; from being contemned,
dreadful; and in the destruction which they brought upon others, found at last their own. He
accused Marcellus of "malignant words concerning Tiberius," an inevitable crime! when the accuser,
collecting all the most detestable parts of the Prince's character, alleged them as the expressions
of the accused; for, because they were true, they were believed to have been spoken. To this,
Hispo added, "That the statue of Marcellus was by him placed higher than those of the Caesars;
and that, having cut off the head of Augustus, he had in the room of it set the head of Tiberius."
This enraged him so, that breaking silence, he cried, "He would himself, in this cause, give
his vote explicitly and under the tie of an oath." By this he meant to force the assent of
the rest of the Senate. There remained even then some faint traces of expiring liberty. Hence
Cneius Piso asked him, "In what place, Caesar, will you choose to give your opinion? If first,
I shall have your example to follow; if last, I fear I may ignorantly dissent from you." The
words pierced him, but he bore them, the rather as he was ashamed of his unwary transport;
and he suffered the accused to be acquitted of high treason. To try him for the public money
was referred to the proper judges.

Nor sufficed it Tiberius to assist in the deliberations of the Senate only: he likewise sat
in the seats of justice; but always on one side, because he would not dispossess the Praetor
of his chair; and by his presence there, many ordinances were established against the intrigues
and solicitations of the Grandees. But while private justice was thus promoted, public liberty
was overthrown. About this time, Pius Aurelius, the Senator, whose house, yielding to the pressure
of the public road and aqueducts, had fallen, complained to the Senate and prayed relief: a
suit opposed by the Praetors who managed the treasury; but he was relieved by Tiberius, who
ordered him the price of his house; for he was fond of being liberal upon honest occasions:
a virtue which he long retained, even after he had utterly abandoned all other virtues. Upon
Propertius Celer, once Praetor, but now desiring leave to resign the dignity of Senator, as
a burden to his poverty, he bestowed a thousand great sesterces; [Footnote: L8333.] upon ample
information, that Celer's necessities were derived from his father. Others, who attempted the
same thing, he ordered to lay their condition before the Senate; and from an affectation of
severity was thus austere even where he acted with uprightness. Hence the rest preferred poverty
and silence to begging and relief.

The same year the Tiber, being swelled with continual rains, overflowed the level parts of
the city; and the common destruction of men and houses followed the returning flood. Hence
Asinius Callus moved "that the Sibylline books might be consulted." Tiberius opposed it, equally
smothering all inquiries whatsoever, whether into matters human or divine. To Ateius Capito,
however, and Lucius Arruntius, was committed the care of restraining the river within its banks.
The provinces of Achaia and Macedon, praying relief from their public burdens, were for the
present discharged of their Proconsular government, and subjected to the Emperor's lieutenants.
In the entertainment of gladiators at Rome, Drusus presided: it was exhibited in the name of
Germanicus, and his own; and at it he manifested too much lust of blood, even of the blood
of slaves: a quality terrible to the populace; and hence his father was said to have reproved
him. His own absence from these shows was variously construed: by some it was ascribed to his
impatience of a crowd; by others to his reserved and solitary genius, and his fear of an unequal
comparison with Augustus, who was wont to be a cheerful spectator. But, that he thus purposely
furnished matter for exposing the cruelty of his son there, and for raising him popular hate,
is what I would not believe; though this too was asserted.

The dissensions of the theatre, begun last year, broke out now more violently, with the slaughter
of several, not of the people only, but of the soldiers, with that of a Centurion. Nay, a Tribune
of a Praetorian cohort was wounded, whilst they were securing the magistrates from insults,
and quelling the licentiousness of the rabble. This riot was canvassed in the Senate, and votes
were passing for empowering the Praetors to whip the players. Haterius Agrippa, Tribune of
the People, opposed it; and was sharply reprimanded by a speech of Asinius Gallus. Tiberius
was silent, and to the Senate allowed these empty apparitions of liberty. The opposition, however,
prevailed, in reverence to the authority of Augustus; who, upon a certain occasion, had given
his judgment, "that players were exempt from stripes:" nor would Tiberius assume to violate
any words of his. To limit the wages of players, and restrain the licentiousness of their partisans,
many decrees were made: the most remarkable were, "That no Senator should enter the house of
a pantomime; no Roman Knight attend them abroad; they should show nowhere but in the theatre;
and the Praetors should have power to punish any insolence in the spectators with exile."

The Spaniards were, upon their petition, permitted to build a temple to Augustus in the colony
of Tarragon; an example this for all the provinces to follow. In answer to the people, who
prayed to be relieved from the centesima, a tax of one in the hundred, established at the end
of the civil wars, upon all vendible commodities; Tiberius by an edict declared, "That upon
this tax depended the fund for maintaining the army; nor even thus was the Commonwealth equal
to the expense, if before their twentieth year the veterans were dismissed." So that the concessions
made them during the late sedition, to discharge them finally at the end of sixteen years,
as they were made through necessity, were for the future abolished.

It was next proposed to the Senate, by Arruntius and Ateius, whether, in order to restrain
the overflowing of the Tiber, the channels of the several rivers and lakes by which it was
swelled, must not be diverted. Upon this question the deputies of several cities and colonies
were heard. The Florentines besought, "that the bed of the Clanis [Footnote: Chiana.] might
not be turned into their river Arnus; [Footnote: Arno.] for that the same would prove their
utter ruin." The like plea was urged by the Interamnates; [Footnote: Terni.] "since the most
fruitful plains in Italy would be lost, if, according to the project, the Nar, branched out
into rivulets, overflowed them." Nor were the Reatinians less earnest against stopping the
outlets of the Lake Velinus into the Nar; "otherwise," they said, "it would break over its
banks, and stagnate all the adjacent country; the direction of nature was best in all natural
things: it was she that to rivers had appointed their courses and discharges, and set them
their limits as well as their sources. Regard too was to be paid to the religion of our Latin
allies, who, esteeming the rivers of their country sacred, had to them dedicated Priests, and
altars, and groves; nay, the Tiber himself, when bereft of his auxiliary streams, would flow
with diminished grandeur." Now, whether it were that the prayers of the colonies, or the difficulty
of the work, or the influence of superstition prevailed, it is certain the opinion of Piso
was followed; namely, that nothing should be altered,

To Poppeus Sabinus was continued his province of Mesia; and to it was added that of Achaia
and Macedon. This too was part of the politics of Tiberius, to prolong governments, and maintain
the same men in the same armies, or civil employments, for the most part, to the end of their
lives; with what view, is not agreed. Some think "that from an impatience of returning cares,
he was for making whatever he once liked perpetual." Others, "that from the malignity of his
invidious nature, he regretted the preferring of many." There are some who believe, "that as
he had a crafty penetrating spirit, so he had an understanding ever irresolute and perplexed."
So much is certain, that he never courted any eminent virtue, yet hated vice; from the best
men he dreaded danger to himself, and disgrace to the public from the worst. This hesitation
mastered him so much at last that he committed foreign governments to some, whom he meant never
to suffer to leave Rome.

Concerning the management of consular elections, either then or afterwards under Tiberius,
I can affirm scarce anything: such is the variance about it, not only amongst historians, but
even in his own speeches. Sometimes, not naming the candidates, he described them by their
family, by their life and manners, and by the number of their campaigns; so as it might be
apparent whom he meant. Again, avoiding even to describe them, he exhorted the candidates not
to disturb the election by their intrigues, and promised himself to take care of their interests.
But chiefly he used to declare, "that to him none had signified their pretensions, but such
whose names he had delivered to the Consuls; others too were at liberty to offer the like pretensions,
if they trusted to the favour of the Senate or their own merits." Specious words! but entirely
empty, or full of fraud; and by how much they were covered with the greater guise of liberty,
by so much threatening a more hasty and devouring bondage.

BOOK II

A.D. 16-19.

The commotions in the East happened not ungratefully to Tiberius, since then he had a colour
for separating Germanicus from his old and faithful legions; for setting him over strange provinces,
and exposing him at once to casual perils and the efforts of fraud. But he, the more ardent
he found the affections of the soldiers, and the greater the hatred of his uncle, so much the
more intent upon a decisive victory, weighed with himself all the methods of that war, with
all the disasters and successes which had befallen him in it to this his third year. He remembered
"that the Germans were ever routed in a fair battle, and upon equal ground; that woods and
bogs, short summers, and early winters, were their chief resources; that his own men suffered
not so much from their wounds, as from tedious marches, and the loss of their arms. The Gauls
were weary of furnishing horses; long and cumbersome was his train of baggage, easily surprised,
and with difficulty defended; but, if we entered the country by sea, the invasion would be
easy, and the enemy unapprised. Besides, the war would be earlier begun; the legions and provisions
would be carried together; and the cavalry brought with safety, through the mouths and channels
of the rivers, into the heart of Germany."

On that method therefore he fixed: whilst Publius Vitellius and Publius Cantius were sent to
collect the tribute of the Gauls; Silius, Anteius, and Caecina had the direction of building
the fleet. A thousand vessels were thought sufficient, and with despatch finished: some were
short, sharp at both ends, and wide in the middle, the easier to endure the agitations of the
waves; some had flat bottoms, that without damage they might bear to run aground; several had
helms at each end, that by suddenly turning the oars only they might work either way. Many
were arched over, for carrying the engines of war. They were fitted for holding horses and
provisions, to fly with sails, to run with oars, and the spirit and alacrity of the soldiers
heightened the show and terror of the fleet. They were to meet at the Isle of Batavia, which
was chosen for its easy landing, for its convenience to receive the forces, and thence to transport
them to the war. For the Rhine, flowing in one continual channel, or only broken by small islands,
is, at the extremity of Batavia, divided as it were into two rivers; one running still through
Germany, and retaining the same name and violent current, till it mixes with the ocean; the
other, washing the Gallic shore, with a broader and more gentle stream, is by the inhabitants
called by another name, the Wahal, which it soon after changes for that of the river Meuse,
by whose immense mouth it is discharged into the same ocean.

While the fleet sailed, Germanicus commanded Silius, his lieutenant, with a flying band, to
invade the Cattans; and he himself, upon hearing that the fort upon the river Luppia [Footnote:
Lippe.] was besieged, led six legions thither: but the sudden rains prevented Silius from doing
more than taking some small plunder, with the wife and daughter of Arpus, Prince of the Cattans;
nor did the besiegers stay to fight Germanicus, but upon the report of his approach stole off
and dispersed. As they had, however, thrown down the common tomb lately raised over the Varian
legions, and the old altar erected to Drusus, he restored the altar; and performed in person
with the legions the funeral ceremony of running courses to the honour of his father. To replace
the tomb was not thought fit; but all the space between Fort Aliso and the Rhine, he fortified
with a new barrier.

The fleet was now arrived, the provisions were sent forward; ships were assigned to the legions
and the allies; and he entered the canal cut by Drusus, and called by his name. Here he invoked
his father "to be propitious to his son attempting the same enterprises; to inspire him with
the same counsels, and animate him by his example." Hence he sailed fortunately through the
lakes and the ocean to the river Amisia, [Footnote: Ems.] and at the town of Amisia the fleet
was left upon the left shore; and it was a fault that it sailed no higher, for he landed the
army on the right shore, so that in making bridges many days were consumed. The horse and the
legions passed over without danger, as it was yet ebb; but the returning tide disordered the
rear, especially the Batavians, while they played with the waves, and showed their dexterity
in swimming; and some were drowned. Whilst Germanicus was encamping, he was told of the revolt
of the Angrivarians behind him, and thither he despatched a body of horse and light foot, under
Stertinius. who with fire and slaughter took vengeance on the perfidious revolters.

Between the Romans and the Cheruscans flowed the river Visurgis, [Footnote: Weser.] and on
the banks of it stood Arminius, with the other chiefs: he inquired whether Germanicus was come;
and being answered that he was there, he prayed leave to speak with his brother. This brother
of his was in the army, his name Flavius; one remarkable for his lasting faith towards the
Romans, and for the loss of an eye in the war under Tiberius. This request was granted: Flavius
stepped forward, and was saluted by Arminius, who, having removed his own attendance, desired
that our archers ranged upon the opposite banks might retire. When they were withdrawn, "How
came you," says he to his brother, "by that deformity in your face?" The brother having informed
him where, and in what fight, was next asked, "what reward he had received?" Flavius answered,
"Increase of pay, the chain, the crown, and other military gifts;" all which Arminius treated
with derision, as the vile wages of servitude.

Here began a warm contest: Flavius pleaded "the grandeur of the Roman Empire, the power of
the Emperor, the Roman clemency to submitting nations, the heavy yoke of the vanquished; and
that neither the wife nor son of Arminius was used like a captive." Arminius to all this opposed
"the natural rights of their country, their ancient liberty, the domestic Gods of Germany;
he urged the prayers of their common mother joined to his own, that he would not prefer the
character of a deserter, that of a betrayer of his family, his countrymen, and kindred, to
the glory of being their commander." By degrees they fell into reproaches; nor would the interposition
of the river have restrained them from blows, had not Stertinius hasted to lay hold on Flavius,
full of rage, and calling for his arms and his horse. On the opposite side was seen Arminius,
swelling with ferocity and threats, and denouncing battle. For, of what he said, much was said
in Latin, having as the General of his countrymen served in the Roman armies.

Next day, the German army stood embattled beyond the Visurgis. Germanicus, who thought it became
not a General to endanger the legions, till for their passage and security he had placed bridges
and guards, made the horse ford over. They were led by Stertinius, and Aemilius, Lieutenant-
Colonel of a legion; and these two officers crossed the river in distant places, to divide
the foe. Cariovalda, Captain of the Batavians, passed it where most rapid, and was by the Cheruscans,
who feigned flight, drawn into a plain surrounded with woods, whence they rushed out upon him
and assaulted him on every side; overthrew those who resisted, and pressed vehemently upon
those who gave way. The distressed Batavians formed themselves into a ring, but were again
broken, partly by a close assault, partly by distant showers of darts. Cariovalda, having long
sustained the fury of the enemy, exhorted his men to draw up into platoons, and break through
the prevailing host; he himself forced his way into their centre, and fell with his horse under
a shower of darts, and many of the principal Batavians round him; the rest were saved by their
own bravery, or rescued by the cavalry under Stertinius and Aemilius.

Germanicus, having passed the Visurgis, learned from a deserter, that Arminius had marked out
the place of battle; that more nations had also joined him; that they rendezvoused in a wood
sacred to Hercules, and would attempt to storm our camp by night. The deserter was believed;
the enemy's fires were discerned; and the scouts having advanced towards them, reported that
they had heard the neighing of horses, and the hollow murmur of a mighty and tumultuous host.
In this important conjuncture, upon the approach of a decisive battle, Germanicus thought it
behoved him to learn the inclinations and spirit of the soldiers and deliberated with himself
how to be informed without fraud: "for the reports of the Tribunes and Centurions used to be
oftener pleasing than true; his Freedmen had still slavish souls, incapable of free speech;
friends were apt to flatter; there was the same uncertainty in an assemble, where the counsel
proposed by a few was wont to be echoed by all; in truth, the minds of the soldiery were then
best known, when they were least watched; when free and over their meals, they frankly disclosed
their hopes and fears."

In the beginning of night, he went out at the augural gate, with a single attendant; himself
disguised with the skin of a wild beast hanging over his shoulders; and choosing secret ways,
he escaped the notice of the watch, entered the lanes of the camp, listened from tent to tent,
and enjoyed the pleasing display of his own popularity and fame; as one was magnifying the
imperial birth of his general; another, his graceful person; and all, his patience, condescension,
and the equality of his soul in every temper, pleasant or grave: they confessed the gratitude
due to so much merit, and that in battle they ought to express it, and to sacrifice at the
same time to glory and revenge these perfidious Germans, who for ever violated stipulations
and peace. In the meantime one of the enemy who understood Latin rode up to the palisades,
and with a loud voice offered, in the name of Arminius, to every deserter a wife and land,
and as long as the war lasted an hundred sesterces a day. [Footnote: 16s. 8d.] This contumely
kindled the wrath of the legions: "Let day come," they cried, "let battle be given: the soldiers
would seize and not accept the lands of the Germans; take and not receive German wives; they,
however, received the offer as an omen of victory, and considered the money and women as their
destined prey." Near the third watch of the night, they approached and insulted the camp; but
without striking a blow, when they found the ramparts covered thick with cohorts, and no advantage
given.

Germanicus had the same night a joyful dream: he thought he sacrificed, and, in place of his
own robe besmeared with the sacred blood, received one fairer from the hands of his grandmother
Augusta; so that elevated by the omen, and by equal encouragement from the auspices, he called
an assembly, where he opened his deliberations concerning the approaching battle with all the
advantages contributing to victory: "That to the Roman soldiers not only plains and dales,
but, with due circumspection, even woods and forests were commodious for an engagement. The
huge targets, the enormous spears, of the Barbarians could never be wielded amongst thickets
and trunks of trees like Roman swords and javelins, and armour adjusted to the shape and size
of their bodies, so that with these tractable arms they might thicken their blows, and strike
with certainty at the naked faces of the enemy, since the Germans were neither furnished with
headpiece nor coat of mail, nor were their bucklers bound with leather or fortified with iron,
but all bare basket-work or painted boards; and though their first ranks were armed with pikes,
the rest had only stakes burnt at the end, or short and contemptible darts; for their persons,
as they were terrible to sight and violent in the onset, so they were utterly impatient of
wounds, unaffected with their own disgrace, unconcerned for the honour of their general, whom
they ever deserted and fled; in distress cowards, in prosperity despisers of all divine, of
all human laws. In fine, if the army, after their fatigues at sea and their tedious marches
by land, longed for an utter end of their labour, by this battle they might gain it. The Elbe
was now nearer than the Rhine; and if they would make him a conqueror in those countries where
his father and his uncle had conquered, the war was concluded." The ardour of the soldiers
followed the speech of the general, and the signal for the onset was given.

Neither did Arminius or the other chiefs neglect to declare to their several bands that "these
Romans were the cowardly fugitives of the Varian army, who, because they could not endure to
fight, had afterwards chosen to rebel. That some with backs deformed by wounds, some with limbs
maimed by tempests, forsaken of hope, and the Gods against them, were once more presenting
their lives to their vengeful foes. Hitherto a fleet, and unfrequented seas, had been the resources
of their cowardice against an assaulting or a pursuing enemy; but now that they were to engage
hand to hand, vain would be their relief from wind and oars after a defeat. The Germans needed
only remember their rapine, cruelty, and pride; and that to themselves nothing remained but
either to maintain their native liberty, or by death to prevent bondage."

The enemy, thus inflamed and calling for battle, were led into a plain called Idistavisus:
[Footnote: Near Minden.] it lies between the Visurgis and the hills, and winds unequally along,
as it is straitened by the swellings of the mountains or enlarged by the circuits of the river.
Behind rose a forest of high trees, thick of branches above but clear of bushes below. The
army of Barbarians kept the plain, and the entrances of the forest. The Cheruscans alone sat
down upon the mountain, in order to pour down from thence upon the Romans as soon as they became
engaged in the fight. Our army marched thus: the auxiliary Gauls and Germans in front, after
them the foot archers, next four legions, and then Germanicus with two Praetorian cohorts and
the choice of the cavalry; then four legions more, and the light foot with archers on horseback
and the other troops of the allies; the men all intent to march in order of battle and ready
to engage as they marched.

As the impatient bands of Cheruscans were now perceived descending fiercely from the hills,
Germanicus commanded a body of the best horse to charge them in the flank, and Stertinius with
the rest to wheel round to attack them in the rear, and promised to be ready to assist them
in person. During this a joyful omen appeared: eight eagles were seen to fly toward the wood,
and to enter it; a presage of victory to the General. "Advance," he cried, "follow the Roman
birds; follow the tutelar Deities of the legions!" Instantly the foot charged the enemy's front,
and instantly the detached cavalry attacked their flank and rear: this double assault had a
strange event; the two divisions of their army fled opposite ways; that in the woods ran to
the plain; that in the plain rushed into the woods. The Cheruscans, between both, were driven
from the hills; amongst them Arminius, remarkably brave, who with his hand, his voice, and
distinguished wounds was still sustaining the fight. He had assaulted the archers, and would
have broken through them, but the cohorts of the Retians, the Vindelicians, and the Gauls marched
to their relief; however, by his own vigour and the force of his horse, he escaped, his face
besmeared with his own blood to avoid being known. Some have related that the Chaucians, who
were amongst the Roman auxiliaries, knew him, and let him go; the same bravery or deceit procured
Inguiomerus his escape; the rest were everywhere slain; and great numbers attempting to swim
the Visurgis were destroyed in it, either pursued with darts, or swallowed by the current,
or overwhelmed with the weight of the crowd, or buried under the falling banks; some seeking
a base refuge on the tops of trees, and concealment amongst the branches, were shot in sport
by the archers, or squashed as the trees were felled: a mighty victory this, and to us far
from bloody!

This slaughter of the foe, from the fifth hour of the day till night, filled the country for
ten miles with carcasses and arms: amongst the spoils, chains were found, which, sure of conquering,
they had brought to bind the Roman captives. The soldiers proclaimed Tiberius Imperator upon
the field of battle, and raising a mount, placed upon it as trophies the German arms, with
the names of all the vanquished nations inscribed below.

This sight filled the Germans with more anguish and rage than all their wounds, past afflictions,
and slaughters. They, who were just prepared to abandon their dwellings, and flit beyond the
Elbe, meditate war and grasp their arms: people, nobles, youth, aged, all rush suddenly upon
the Roman army in its march and disorder it. They next chose their camp, a strait and moist
plain shut in between a river and a forest, the forest too surrounded with a deep marsh, except
on one side, which was closed with a barrier raised by the Angrivarians between them and the
Cheruscans. Here stood their foot; their horse were distributed and concealed amongst the neighbouring
groves, thence, by surprise, to beset the legions in the rear as soon as they had entered the wood.

Nothing of all this was a secret to Germanicus: he knew their counsels, their stations, what
steps they pursued, what measures they concealed; and, to the destruction of the enemy, turned
their own subtilty and devices. To Seius Tubero, his Lieutenant, he committed the horse and
the field; the infantry so disposed, that part might pass the level approaches into the wood,
and the rest force the ramparts; this was the most arduous task, and to himself he reserved
it; the rest he left to his Lieutenants. Those who had the even ground to traverse, broke easily
in; but they who were to assail the rampart, were as grievously battered from above, as if
they had been storming a wall. The General perceived the inequality of this close attack, and
drawing off the legions a small distance, ordered the slingers to throw, and the engineers
to play, to beat off the enemy: immediately showers of darts were poured from the engines,
and the defenders of the barrier, the more bold and exposed they were, with the more wounds
they were beaten down. Germanicus, having taken the rampart, first forced his way, at the head
of the Praetorian cohorts, into the woods, and there it was fought foot to foot; behind, the
enemy were begirt with the morass, the Romans with the mountains or the rivers; no room for
either to retreat, no hope but in valour, no safety but in victory.

The Germans had no inferior courage, but they were exceeded in the fashion of arms and art
of fighting. Their mighty multitude, hampered in narrow places, could not push nor recover
their long spears, nor practise in a close combat their usual boundings and velocity of limbs.
On the contrary, our soldiers, with handy swords, and their breasts closely guarded with a
buckler, delved the large bodies and naked faces of the Barbarians, and opened themselves a
way with a havoc of the enemy: besides, the activity of Arminius now failed him, either spent
through his continual efforts or slackened by a wound just received. Inguiomerus was everywhere
upon the spur, animating the battle, but fortune rather than courage deserted him. Germanicus,
to be the easier known, pulled off his helmet, and exhorted his men "to prosecute the slaughter;
they wanted no captives," he said; "only the cutting off that people root and branch would
put an end to the war." It was now late in the day, and he drew off a legion to make a camp;
the rest glutted themselves till night, with the blood of the foe; the horse fought with doubtful
success.

Germanicus, in a speech from the tribunal, praised his victorious army, and raised a monument
of arms with a proud inscription: "That the army of Tiberius Caesar, having vanquished entirely
the nations between the Rhine and the Elbe, had consecrated that monument to Mars, to Jupiter,
and to Augustus." Of himself, he made no mention, either fearful of provoking envy, or that
he thought it sufficient praise to have deserved it. He had next commanded Stertinius to carry
the war amongst the Angrivarians; but they instantly submitted; and these supplicants, by yielding
without articles, obtained pardon without reserve.

The summer now declining, some of the legions were sent back into winter quarters by land;
more were embarked with Germanicus upon the river Amisia, to go from thence by the ocean. The
sea at first was serene, no sound or agitation but from the oars or sails of a thousand ships;
but suddenly a black host of clouds poured a storm of hail; furious winds roared on every side,
and the tempest darkened the deep, so that all prospect was lost; and it was impossible to
steer. The soldiers too, unaccustomed to the terrors of the sea, in the hurry of fear disordered
the mariners, or interrupted the skilful by unskilful help. At last the south wind, mastering
all the rest, drove the ocean and the sky: the tempest derived new force from the windy mountains
and swelling rivers of Germany, as well as from an immense train of clouds; and contracting
withal fresh vigour from the boisterous neighbourhood of the north, it hurled the ships and
tossed them into the open ocean, or against islands shored with rocks or dangerously beset
with covered shoals. The ships by degrees, with great labour and the change of the tide, were
relieved from the rocks and sands, but remained at the mercy of the winds; their anchors could
not hold them; they were full of water, nor could all their pumps discharge it: hence, to lighten
and raise the vessels swallowing at their decks the invading waves, the horses, beasts, baggage,
and even the arms were cast into the deep.

By how much the German ocean is more outrageous than the rest of the sea, and the German climate
excels in rigour, by so much this ruin was reckoned to exceed in greatness and novelty. They
were engaged in a tempestuous sea, believed deep without bottom, vast without bounds, or no
shores near but hostile shores: part of the fleet were swallowed up; many were driven upon
remote islands void of human culture, where the men perished through famine, or were kept alive
by the carcasses of horses cast in by the flood. Only the galley of Germanicus landed upon
the coast of the Chaucians, where wandering sadly, day and night, upon the rocks and prominent
shore, and incessantly accusing himself as the author of such mighty destruction, he was hardly
restrained by his friends from casting himself desperately into the same hostile floods. At
last, with the returning tide and an assisting gale, the ships began to return, all maimed,
almost destitute of oars, or with coats spread for sails; and some, utterly disabled, were
dragged by those that were less. He repaired them hastily, and despatched them to search the
islands; and by this care many men were gleaned up; many were by the Angrivarians, our new
subjects, redeemed from their maritime neighbours and restored; and some, driven into Great
Britain, were sent back by the little British kings. Those who had come from afar, recounted
wonders at their return, "the impetuosity of whirlwinds; wonderful birds; sea monsters of ambiguous
forms, between man and beasts." Strange sights these! or the effects of imagination and fear.

The noise of this wreck, as it animated the Germans with hopes of renewing the war, awakened
Germanicus also to restrain them: he commanded Caius Silius, with thirty thousand foot and
three thousand horse, to march against the Cattans: he himself, with a greater force, invaded
the Marsians, where he learnt from Malovendus, their general, lately taken into our subjection,
that the Eagle of one of Varus's legions was hid underground in a neighbouring grove, and kept
by a slender guard. Instantly two parties were despatched; one to face the enemy and provoke
them from their post; the other to beset their rear and dig up the Eagle; and success attended
both. Hence Germanicus advanced with great alacrity, laid waste the country, and smote the
foe, either not daring to engage, or, wherever they engaged, suddenly defeated. Nor, as we
learnt from the prisoners, were they ever seized with greater dismay: "The Romans," they cried,
"are invincible: no calamities can subdue them: they have wrecked their fleet; their arms are
lost; our shores are covered with the bodies of their horses and men; and yet they attack us
with their usual ferocity, with the same firmness, and with numbers as it were increased."

The army was from thence led back into winter quarters, full of joy to have balanced, by this
prosperous expedition, their late misfortune at sea; and by the bounty of Germanicus, their
joy was heightened, since to each sufferer he caused to be paid as much as each declared he
had lost; neither was it doubted but the enemy were humbled, and concerting measures for obtaining
peace, and that the next summer would terminate the war. But Tiberius by frequent letters urged
him "to come home, there to celebrate the triumph already decreed him; urged that he had already
tried enough of events, and tempted abundant hazards: he had indeed fought great and successful
battles; but he must likewise remember his losses and calamities, which, however, owing to
wind and waves, and no fault of the general, were yet great and grievous. He himself had been
sent nine times into Germany by Augustus, and effected much more by policy than arms: it was
thus he had brought the Sigambrians into subjection, thus drawn the Suevians and King Maroboduus
under the bonds of peace. The Cheruscans too, and the other hostile nations, now the Roman
vengeance was satiated, might be left to pursue their own national feuds." Germanicus besought
one year to accomplish his conquest; but Tiberius assailed his modesty with a new bait and
fresh opportunity, by offering him another Consulship, for the administration of which he was
to attend in person at Rome. He added, "that if the war was still to be prosecuted, Germanicus
should leave a field of glory to his brother Drusus, to whom there now remained no other; since
the Empire had nowhere a war to maintain but in Germany, and thence only Drusus could acquire
the title of Imperator, and merit the triumphal laurel." Germanicus persisted no longer; though
he knew that this was all feigned and hollow, and saw himself invidiously torn away from a
harvest of ripe glory.

Decrees of the Senate were made for driving astrologers and magicians out of Italy; and one
of the herd, Lucius Pituanius, was precipitated from the Tarpeian Rock: Publius Marcius, another,
was, by the judgment of the Consuls, at the sound of trumpet executed without the Esquiline
Gate, according to the ancient form.

Next time the Senate sat, long discourses against the luxury of the city were made by Quintus
Haterius, a consular, and by Octavius Fronto, formerly Praetor; and a law was passed "against
using table-plate of solid gold, and against men debasing themselves with gorgeous and effeminate
silks." Fronto went further, and desired that "the quantities of silver plate, the expense
of furniture, and the number of domestics might be limited;" for it was yet common for senators
to depart from the present debate and offer, as their advice, whatever they judged conducing
to the interest of the commonweal. Against him it was argued by Asinius Callus, "That with
the growth of the Empire private riches were likewise grown, and it was no new thing for citizens
to live according to their conditions, but agreeable to the most primitive usage: the ancient
Fabricii and the later Scipios, having different wealth, lived differently; but all suitably
to the several stages of the Commonwealth. Public property was accompanied with domestic; but
when the State rose to such a height of magnificence, the magnificence of particulars rose
too. As to plate, and train, and expense, there was no standard of excess or frugality, but
from the fortunes of men. The law, indeed, had made a distinction between the fortunes of senators
and knights; not for any natural difference between them, but that they who excelled in place,
rank, and civil pre-eminence, might excel too in other particulars, such as conduced to the
health of the body or to the peace and solacement of the soul; unless it were expected, that
the most illustrious citizens should sustain the sharpest cares, and undergo the heaviest fatigues
and dangers, but continue destitute of every alleviation of fatigue and danger and care." Gallus
easily prevailed, whilst under worthy names he avowed and supported popular vices in an assembly
engaged in them. Tiberius too had said, "That it was not a season for reformation; or, if there
were any corruption of manners, there would not be wanting one to correct them."

During these transactions, Lucius Piso, after he had declaimed bitterly in the Senate against
"the ambitious practices and intrigues of the Forum, the corruption of the tribunals, and the
inhumanity of the pleaders breathing continual terror and impeachments," declared "he would
entirely relinquish Rome, and retire into a quiet corner of the country, far distant and obscure."
With these words he left the Senate; Tiberius was provoked; and yet not only soothed him with
gentle words, but likewise obliged Piso's relations, by their authority or entreaties, to retain
him. The same Piso gave soon after an equal instance of the indignation of the free spirit,
by prosecuting a suit against Urgulania; a lady whom the partial friendship of Livia had set
at defiance with the laws. Urgulania being carried, for protection, to the palace, despised
the efforts of Piso; so that neither did she submit; nor would he desist, notwithstanding the
complaints and resentments of Livia, that in the prosecution "violence and indignity were done
to her own person." Tiberius promised to attend the trial, and assist Urgulania; but only promised
in civility to his mother, for so far he thought it became him; and thus left the palace, ordering
his guards to follow at a distance. People the while crowded about him, and he walked with
a slow and composed air: as he lingered, and prolonged the time and way with various discourse,
the trial went on. Piso would not be mollified by the importunity of his friends; and hence
at last the Empress ordered the payment of the money claimed by him. This was the issue of
the affair: by it, Piso lost no renown; and it signally increased the credit of Tiberius. The
power, however, of Urgulania was so exorbitant to the State, that she disdained to appear a
witness in a certain cause before the Senate: and, when it had been always usual even for the
Vestal Virgins to attend the Forum and Courts of Justice, as oft as their evidence was required;
a Praetor was sent to examine Urgulania at her own house.

The procrastination which happened this year in the public affairs, I should not mention, but
that the different opinions of Cneius Piso and Asinius Gallus about it, are worth knowing.
Their dispute was occasioned by a declaration of Tiberius; "that he was about to be absent,"
and it was the motion of Piso, "that for that very reason, the prosecution of public business
was the rather to be continued; since, as in the Prince's absence, the Senate and equestrian
order might administer their several parts, the same would redound to the honour of the Commonwealth."
This was a declaration for liberty, and in it Piso had prevented Gallus, who now in opposition
said, "that nothing sufficiently illustrious, nor suiting the dignity of the Roman People,
could be transacted but under the immediate eye of the Emperor, and therefore the conflux of
suitors and affairs from Italy and the provinces must by all means be reserved for his presence."
Tiberius heard and was silent, while the debate was managed on both sides with mighty vehemence;
but the adjournment was carried.

A debate too arose between Gallus and the Emperor: for Gallus moved "that the magistrates should
be henceforth elected but once every five years; that the legates of the legions, who had never
exercised the Praetorships, should be appointed Praetors; and that the Prince should nominate
twelve candidates every year." It was not doubted but this motion had a deeper aim, and that
by it the secret springs and reserves of imperial power were invaded. But Tiberius, as if he
rather apprehended the augmentation of his power, argued "that it was a heavy task upon his
moderation, to choose so many magistrates, and to postpone so many candidates. That disgusts
from disappointments were hardly avoided in yearly elections; though, for their solacement,
fresh hopes remained of approaching success in the next; now how great must be the hatred,
how lasting the resentment of such whose pretensions were to be rejected beyond five years?
and whence could it be foreseen that, in so long a tract of time, the same men would continue
to have the same dispositions, the same alliances and fortunes? even an annual designation
to power made men imperious; how imperious would it make them, if they bore the honour for
five years! besides, it would multiply every single magistrate into five, and utterly subvert
the laws which had prescribed a proper space for exercising the diligence of the candidates,
and for soliciting as well as enjoying preferments."

By this speech, in appearance popular, he still retained the spirit and force of the sovereignty.
He likewise sustained by gratuities, the dignity of some necessitous Senators: hence it was
the more wondered, that he received with haughtiness and repulse the petition of Marcus Hortalus,
a young man of signal quality and manifestly poor. He was the grandson of Hortensius the Orator;
and had been encouraged by the deified Augustus, with a bounty of a thousand great sestertia,
[Footnote: L8333.] to marry for posterity; purely to prevent the extinction of a family most
illustrious and renowned. The Senate were sitting in the palace, and Hortalus having set his
four children before the door, fixed his eyes, now upon the statue of Hortensius, placed amongst
the orators; then upon that of Augustus; and instead of speaking to the question, began on
this wise: "Conscript Fathers, you see there the number and infancy of my children; not mine
by my own choice, but in compliance with the advice of the Prince: such too was the splendour
of my ancestors, that it merited to be perpetuated in their race; but for my own particular,
who, marred by the revolution of the times, could not raise wealth, nor engage popular favour,
nor cultivate the hereditary fortune of our house, the fortune of Eloquence: I deemed it sufficient
if, in my slender circumstances, I lived no disgrace to myself, no burden to others. Commanded
by the Emperor, I took a wife; behold the offspring of so many Consuls; behold the descendants
of so many Dictators! nor is this remembrance invidiously made, but made to move mercy. In
the progress of your reign, Caesar, these children may arrive at the honours in your gift;
defend them in the meantime from want: they are the great-grandsons of Hortensius; they are
the foster sons of Augustus."

The inclination of the Senate was favourable; an incitement this to Tiberius the more eagerly
to thwart Hortalus. These were in effect his words: "If all that are poor recur hither for
a provision of money to their children, the public will certainly fail, and yet particulars
never be satiated. Our ancestors, when they permitted a departure from the question, to propose
somewhat more important to the State, did not therefore permit it, that we might here transact
domestic matters, and augment our private rents: an employment invidious both in the Senate
and the Prince; since, whether they grant or deny the petitioned bounties, either the people
or the petitioners will ever be offended. But these, in truth, are not petitions; they are
demands made against order, and made by surprise: while you are assembled upon other affairs,
he stands up and urges your pity, by the number and infancy of his children; with the same
violence, he charges the attack to me, and as it were bursts open the exchequer; but if by
popular bounties we exhaust it, by rapine and oppression we must supply it. The deified Augustus
gave you money, Hortalus; but without solicitation he gave it, and on no condition that it
should always be given: otherwise diligence will languish; sloth will prevail; and men having
no hopes in resources of their own, no anxiety for themselves, but all securely relying on
foreign relief, will become private sluggards and public burdens." These and the like reasonings
of Tiberius were differently received; with approbation by those whose way it is to extol,
without distinction, all the doings of Princes, worthy and unworthy; by most, however, with
silence, or low and discontented murmurs. Tiberius perceived it, and having paused a little,
said "his answer was particularly to Hortalus; but if the Senate thought fit, he would give
his sons two hundred great sestertia each." [Footnote: L1666.] For this all the Senators presented
their thanks; only Hortalus said nothing; perhaps through present awe, or perhaps possessed,
even in poverty, with the grandeur of his ancient nobility. Nor did Tiberius ever show further
pity, though the house of Hortensius was fallen into shameful distress.

At the end of the year, a triumphal arch was raised near the Temple of Saturn; a monument this
for the recovery of the Varian Eagles, under the conduct of Germanicus, under the auspices
of Tiberius. A temple was dedicated to Happy Fortune near the Tiber, in the gardens bequeathed
to the Roman People by Caesar, the Dictator. A chapel was consecrated to the Julian family,
and statues to the deified Augustus, in the suburbs called Bovillae. In the consulship of Caius
Celius and Lucius Pomponius, the six- and-twentieth of May, Germanicus Caesar triumphed over
the Cheruscans, the Cattans, the Angrivarians, and the other nations as far as the Elbe. In
the triumph were carried all the spoils and captives, with the representations of mountains,
of rivers, and of battles; so that his conquests, because he was restrained from completing
them, were taken for complete. His own graceful person, and his chariot filled with his five
children, heightened the show and the delight of the beholders; yet they were checked with
secret fears, as they remembered "that popular favour had proved malignant to his father Drusus;
that his uncle Marcellus was snatched, in his youth, from the burning affections of the populace;
and that ever short-lived and unfortunate were the favourites of the Roman People."

Tiberius distributed to the people, in the name of Germanicus, three hundred sesterces a man,
[Footnote: L2, 10s.] and named himself his colleague in the Consulship. Nor even thus did he
gain the opinion of tenderness and sincerity: in effect, on pretence of investing the young
Prince with fresh preferment and honours, he resolved to alienate him from Rome; and, to accomplish
it, craftily framed an occasion, or snatched such an one as chance presented. Archelaus had
enjoyed the kingdom of Cappadocia now fifty years; a Prince under the deep displeasure of Tiberius,
because, in his retirement at Rhodes, the King had paid him no sort of court or distinction:
an omission this which proceeded from no disdain, but from the warnings given him by the confidents
of Augustus; for that the young Caius Caesar, the presumptive heir to the sovereignty, then
lived, and was sent to compose and administer the affairs of the East; hence the friendship
of Tiberius was reckoned then dangerous. But when, by the utter fall of the family of the Caesars,
he had gained the Empire, he enticed Archelaus to Rome, by means of letters from his mother,
who, without dissembling her son's resentment, offered the King his mercy, provided he came
and in person implored it. He, who was either ignorant of the snare, or dreaded violence if
he appeared to perceive it, hastened to the city, where he was received by Tiberius with great
sternness and wrath, and soon after accused as a criminal in the Senate. The crimes alleged
against him were mere fictions; yet, as equal treatment is unusual to kings, and to be treated
like malefactors intolerable; Archelaus, who was broken with grief as well as age, by choice
or fate ended his life; his kingdom was reduced into a province, and by its revenues Tiberius
declared the tax of a hundredth penny would be abated, and reduced it for the future to the
two hundredth. At the same time died Antiochus, king of Comagena, as also Philopator, king
of Cilicia; and great combustions shook these nations; whilst of the people many desired Roman
government, and many were addicted to domestic monarchy. The provinces, too, of Syria and Judea,
as they were oppressed with impositions, prayed an abatement of tribute.

These affairs, and such as I have above related concerning Armenia, Tiberius represented to
the Fathers, and "that the commotions of the East could only be settled by the wisdom and abilities
of Germanicus; for himself, his age now declined, and that of Drusus was not yet sufficiently
ripe." The provinces beyond the sea were thence decreed to Germanicus, with authority superior
to all those who obtained provinces by lot, or the nomination of the Prince; but Tiberius had
already taken care to remove from the government of Syria Creticus Silanus, one united to Germanicus
in domestic alliance, by having to Nero, the eldest son of Germanicus, betrothed his daughter.
In his room he had preferred Cneius Piso, a man of violent temper, incapable of subjection,
and heir to all the ferocity and haughtiness of his father Piso; the same who, in the civil
war, assisted the reviving party against Caesar in Africa with vehement efforts; and then followed
Brutus and Cassius, but had at last leave to come home, yet disdained to sue for any public
offices; nay, was even courted by Augustus to accept the Consulship. His son, besides his hereditary
pride and impetuosity, was elevated with the nobility and wealth of Plancina his wife; scarce
yielded he to Tiberius, and, as men far beneath him, despised the sons of Tiberius; neither
did he doubt but he was set over Syria on purpose to thwart the measures and defeat all the
views of Germanicus. Some even believed that he had to this purpose secret orders from Tiberius,
as it was certain that Livia directed Plancina to exert the spirit of the sex, and by constant
emulation and indignities persecute Agrippina. For the whole court was rent, and their affections
secretly divided between Drusus and Germanicus. Tiberius was partial to Drusus, as his own
son by generation; others loved Germanicus; the more for the aversion of his uncle, and for
being by his mother of more illustrious descent; as Marc Anthony was his grandfather, and Augustus
his great- uncle. On the other side, Pomponius Atticus, a Roman knight, by being the great-grandfather
of Drusus, seemed thence to have derived a stain upon the images of the Claudian house; besides,
Agrippina, the wife of Germanicus, did in the fruitfulness of her body and the reputation of
her virtue far excel Livia, the wife of Drusus. Yet the two brothers lived in amiable dearness
and concord, no wise shaken or estranged by the reigning contention amongst their separate
friends and adherents.

Drusus was soon after sent into Illyricum in order to inure him to war, and gain him the affections
of the army; besides, Tiberius thought that the youth, who loved wantoning in the luxuries
of Rome, would be reformed in the camp, and that his own security would be enlarged when both
his sons were at the head of the legions. But the pretence of sending him was the protection
of the Suevians, who were then imploring assistance against the powers of the Cheruscans. For
these nations, who since the departure of the Romans saw themselves no longer threatened with
terrors from abroad, and were then particularly engaged in a national competition for glory,
had relapsed, as usual, into their old intestine feuds, and turned their arms upon each other.
The two people were equally powerful, and their two leaders equally brave; but differently
esteemed, as the title of king upon Maroboduus had drawn the hate and aversion of his countrymen;
whilst Arminius, as a champion warring for the defence of liberty, was the universal object
of popular affection.

Hence not only the Cheruscans and their confederates, they who had been the ancient soldiery
of Arminius, took arms; but to him too revolted the Semnones and Langobards, both Suevian nations,
and even subjects of Maroboduus; and by their accession he would have exceeded in puissance,
but Inguiomerus with his band of followers deserted to Maroboduus; for no other cause than
disdain, that an old man and an uncle like himself should obey Arminius, a young man, his nephew.
Both armies were drawn out, with equal hopes; nor disjointed, like the old German battles,
into scattered parties for loose and random attacks; for by long war with us they had learnt
to follow their ensigns, to strengthen their main body with parties of reserves, and to observe
the orders of their generals. Arminius was now on horseback viewing all the ranks: as he rode
through them he magnified their past feats; "their liberty recovered; the slaughtered legions;
the spoils of arms wrested from the Romans; monuments of victory still retained in some of
their hands." Upon Maroboduus he fell with contumelious names, as "a fugitive, one of no abilities
in war; a coward who had sought defence from the gloomy coverts of the Hercynian woods, and
then by gifts and solicitations courted the alliance of Rome; a betrayer of his country, and
a lifeguard-man of Caesar's, worthy to be exterminated with no less hostile vengeance than
in the slaughter of Quinctilius Varus they had shown. Let them only remember so many battles
bravely fought; the events of which, particularly the utter expulsion of the Romans, were sufficient
proofs with whom remained the glory of the war."

Neither did Maroboduus fail to boast himself and depreciate the foe. "In the person of Inguiomerus,"
he said (holding him by the hand), "rested the whole renown of the Cheruscans; and from his
counsels began all their exploits that ended in success. Arminius, a man of a frantic spirit,
and a novice in affairs, assumed to himself the glory of another, for having by treachery surprised
three legions, which expected no foe, and their leader, who feared no fraud; a base surprise,
revenged since on Germany with heavy slaughters, and on Arminius himself with domestic infamy,
while his wife and his son still bore the bonds of captivity. For himself, when attacked formerly
by Tiberius at the head of twelve legions, he had preserved unstained the glory of Germany,
and on equal terms ended the war. Nor did he repent of the treaty, since it was still in their
hands to wage anew equal war with the Romans, or save blood and maintain peace." The armies,
besides the incitements from these speeches, were animated by national stimulations of their
own. The Cheruscans fought for their ancient renown; the Langobards for their recent liberty;
and the Suevians and their king, on the contrary, were struggling for the augmentation of their
monarchy. Never did armies make a fiercer onset; never had onset a more ambiguous event; for
both the right wings were routed, and hence a fresh encounter was certainly expected, till
Maroboduus drew off his army and encamped upon the hills; a manifest sign this that he was
humbled. Frequent desertions too leaving him at last naked of forces, he retired to the Marcomannians,
and thence sent ambassadors to Tiberius to implore succours. They were answered, "That he had
no right to invoke aid of the Roman arms against the Cheruscans, since to the Romans, while
they were warring with the same foe, he had never administered any assistance." Drusus was,
however, sent away, as I have said, with the character of a negotiator of peace.

The same year twelve noble cities of Asia were overturned by an earthquake: the ruin happened
in the night, and the more dreadful as its warnings were unobserved; neither availed the usual
sanctuary against such calamities, namely, a flight to the fields, since those who fled, the
gaping earth devoured. It is reported "that mighty mountains subsided, plains were heaved into
high hills: and that with flashes and eruptions of fire, the mighty devastation was everywhere
accompanied." The Sardians felt most heavily the rage of the concussion, and therefore most
compassion: Tiberius promised them an hundred thousand great sesterces, [Footnote: L83,000.]
and remitted their taxes for five years. The inhabitants of Magnesia, under Mount Sipylus,
were held the next in sufferings, and had proportionable relief. The Temnians, Philadelphians,
the Aegeatans, Apollonians, with those called the Mostenians or Macedonians of Hyrcania, the
cities too of Hierocaesarea, Cyme, and Tmolus, were all for the same term eased of tribute.
It was likewise resolved to send one of the Senate to view the desolations and administer proper
remedies: Marcus Aletus was therefore chosen, one of Praetorian rank; because, a Consular Senator
then governing Asia, had another of the like quality been sent, an emulation between equals
was apprehended, and consequently opposition and delays.

The credit of this noble bounty to the public, he increased by private liberalities, which
proved equally popular: the estate of the wealthy Aemilia Musa, claimed by the exchequer, as
she died intestate, he surrendered to Aemilius Lepidus, to whose family she seemed to belong;
as also to Marcus Servilius the inheritance of Patuleius, a rich Roman knight, though part
of it had been bequeathed to himself; but he found Servilius named sole heir in a former and
well-attested will. He said such was "the nobility of both, that they deserved to be supported."
Nor did he ever to himself accept any man's inheritance, but where former friendship gave him
a title. The wills of such as were strangers to him, and of such as, from hate and prejudice
to others, had appointed the Prince their heir, he utterly rejected. But, as he relieved the
honest poverty of the virtuous, so he degraded from the Senate (or suffered to quit it of their
own accord) Vibidius Varro, Marius Nepos, Appius Appianus, Cornelius Sylla, and Quintus Vitellius,
all prodigals, and only through debauchery indigent.

About this time Tiberius finished and consecrated what Augustus began, the Temples of the Gods
consumed by age or fire: that near the great Circus, vowed by Aulus Posthumius the Dictator,
to Bacchus, Proserpina, and Ceres. In the same place the Temple of Flora, founded by Lucius
Publicius and Marcus Publicius while they were Aediles. The Temple of Janus, built in the Herb
Market by Caius Duillius, who first signalised the Roman power at sea, and merited a naval
triumph over the Carthaginians. That of Hope was dedicated by Germanicus: this temple Atilius
had vowed in the same war.

The Consuls for the following year were, Tiberius the third time, Germanicus the second. This
dignity overtook Germanicus at Nicopolis, a city of Achaia, whither he arrived by the coast
of Illyricum, from visiting his brother Drusus, then abiding in Dalmatia; and had suffered
a tempestuous passage, both in the Adriatic and Ionian Sea: he therefore spent a few days to
repair his fleet, and viewed the while the Bay of Actium renowned for the naval victory there;
as also the spoils consecrated by Augustus, and the Camp of Anthony, with an affecting remembrance
of these his ancestors; for Anthony, as I have said, was his great uncle, Augustus his grandfather;
hence this scene proved to Germanicus a mighty source of images pleasing and sad. Next he proceeded
to Athens, where in concession to that ancient city, allied to Rome, he would use but one Lictor.
The Greeks received him with the most elaborate honours, and to dignify their personal flattery,
carried before him tablatures of the signal deeds and sayings of his ancestors.

Hence he sailed to Eubea, thence to Lesbos, where Agrippina was delivered of Julia, who proved
her last birth; then he kept the coast of Asia and visited Perinthus and Byzantium, cities
of Thrace, and entered the straits of Propontis, and the mouth of the Euxine; fond of beholding
ancient places long celebrated by fame: he relieved at the same time, the provinces wherever
distracted with intestine factions, or aggrieved with the oppressions of their magistrates.
In his return he strove to see the religious rites of the Samothracians, but by the violence
of the north wind was repulsed from the shore. As he passed, he saw Troy and her remains, venerable
for the vicissitude of her fate, and for the birth of Rome: regaining the coast of Asia, he
put in at Colophon, to consult there the oracle of the Clarian Apollo: it is no Pythoness that
represents the God here, as at Delphos, but a Priest, one chosen from certain families, chiefly
of Miletus; neither requires he more than just to hear the names and numbers of the querists,
and then descends into the oracular cave; where, after a draught of water from a secret spring,
though ignorant for the most part of letters and poetry, he yet utters his answers in verse,
which has for its subject the conceptions and wishes of each consultant. He was even said to
have sung to Germanicus his hastening fate, but as oracles are wont, in terms dark and doubtful.

But Cneius Piso, hurrying to the execution of his purposes, terrified the city of Athens by
a tempestuous entry, and reproached them in a severe speech, with oblique censure of Germanicus,
"that debasing the dignity of the Roman name, he had paid excessive court, not to the Athenians
by so many slaughters long since extinct, but to the then mixed scum of nations there; for
that these were they who had leagued with Mithridates against Sylla, and with Anthony against
Augustus." He even charged them with the errors and misfortunes of ancient Athens; her impotent
attempts against the Macedonians; her violence and ingratitude to her own citizens. He was
also an enemy to their city from personal anger; because they would not pardon at his request
one Theophilus condemned by the Areopagus for forgery. From thence sailing hastily through
the Cyclades, and taking the shortest course, he overtook Germanicus at Rhodes, but was there
driven by a sudden tempest upon the rocks: and Germanicus, who was not ignorant with what malignity
and invectives he was pursued, yet acted with so much humanity, that when he might have left
him to perish, and to casualty have referred the destruction of his enemy; he despatched galleys
to rescue him from the wreck. This generous kindness however assuaged not the animosity of
Piso; and scarce could he brook a day's delay with Germanicus, but left him in haste to arrive
in Syria before him: nor was he sooner there, and found himself amongst the legions, than he
began to court the common men by bounties and caresses, to assist them with his countenance
and credit, to form factions, to remove all the ancient centurions and every tribune of remarkable
discipline and severity, and, in their places, to put dependents of his own, or men recommended
only by their crimes; he permitted sloth in the camp, licentiousness in the towns, a rambling
and disorderly soldiery, and carried the corruption so high, that in the discourses of the
herd, he was styled Father of the Legions. Nor did Plancina restrain herself to a conduct seemly
in her sex, but frequented the exercises of the cavalry, and attended the decursions of the
cohorts; everywhere inveighing against Agrippina, everywhere against Germanicus; and some even
of the most deserving soldiers became prompt to base obedience, from a rumour whispered abroad,
"that all this was not unacceptable to Tiberius,"

These doings were all known to Germanicus; but his more instant care was to visit Armenia,
an inconstant and restless nation this from the beginning; inconstant from the genius of the
people, as well as from the situation of their country, which bordering with a large frontier
on our provinces, and stretching thence quite to Media, is enclosed between the two great Empires,
and often at variance with them; with the Romans through antipathy and hatred, with the Parthians
through competition and envy. At this time and ever since the removal of Vonones, they had
no king; but the affections of the nations leaned to Zeno, son of Polemon, king of Pontus,
because by an attachment, from his infancy, to the fashions and customs of the Armenians, by
hunting, feasting, and other usages practised and renowned amongst the barbarians, he had equally
won the nobles and people. Upon his head therefore, at the city of Artaxata, with the approbation
of the nobles, in a great assembly, Germanicus put the regal diadem; and the Armenians doing
homage to their king, saluted him, Artaxias, a name which from that of their city, they gave
him. The Cappadocians, at this time reduced into the form of a province, received for their
governor Quintus Veranius; and to raise their hopes of the gentler dominion of Rome, several
of the royal taxes were lessened. Quintus Servaeus was set over the Comagenians, then first
subjected to the jurisdiction of a Praetor.

From the affairs of the allies, thus all successfully settled, Germanicus reaped no pleasure,
through the perverseness and pride of Piso, who was ordered to lead by himself or his son,
part of the legions into Armenia, but contemptuously neglected to do either. They at last met
at Cyrrum, the winter quarters of the tenth legion, whither each came with a prepared countenance;
Piso to betray no fear, and Germanicus would not be thought to threaten. He was indeed, as
I have observed, of a humane and reconcilable spirit: but, officious friends expert at inflaming
animosities, aggravated real offences, added fictitious, and with manifold imputations charged
Piso, Plancina, and their sons. To this interview Germanicus admitted a few intimates, and
began his complaints in words such as dissembled resentment dictates. Piso replied with disdainful
submissions; and they parted in open enmity. Piso hereafter came rarely to the tribunal of
Germanicus; or, if he did, sate sternly there, and in manifest opposition: he likewise published
his spite at a feast of the Nabathean King's, where golden crowns of great weight were presented
to Germanicus and Agrippina; but to Piso and the rest, such as were light: "This banquet,"
he said, "was made for the son of a Roman prince, not of a Parthian monarch:" with these words,
he cast away his crown, and uttered many invectives against luxury: sharp insults and provocations
these to Germanicus; yet he bore them.

In the consulship of Marcus Silanus and Lucius Norbanus, Germanicus travelled to Egypt, to
view the famous antiquities of the country; though for the motives of the journey, the care
and inspection of the province were publicly alleged: and, indeed, by opening the granaries,
he mitigated the price of corn, and practised many things grateful to the people; walking without
guards, his feet bare, and his habit the same with that of the Greeks; after the example of
Publius Scipio, who, we are told, was constant in the same practices in Sicily, even during
the rage of the Punic War there. For these his assumed manners and foreign habit, Tiberius
blamed him in a gentle style, but censured him with great asperity for violating an establishment
of Augustus, and entering Alexandria without consent of the Prince. For Augustus, amongst other
secrets of power, had appropriated Egypt, and restrained the senators, and dignified Roman
knights from going thither without licence; as he apprehended that Italy might be distressed
with famine by any who seized that province, the key to the Empire by sea and land, and defensible
by a light band of men against potent armies.

Germanicus, not yet informed that his journey was censured, sailed up the Nile, beginning at
Canopus, [Footnote: Near Aboukir.] one of its mouths: it was built by the Spartans, as a monument
to Canopus, a pilot buried there, at the time when Menelaus returning to Greece was driven
to different seas and the Lybian continent. Hence he visited the next mouth of the river sacred
to Hercules: him the nations aver to have been born amongst them; that he was the most ancient
of the name, and that all the rest, who with equal virtue followed his example, were, in honour,
called after him. Next he visited the mighty antiquities of ancient Thebes; [Footnote: Karnak
and Luxor.] where upon huge obelisks yet remained Egyptian characters, describing its former
opulency: one of the oldest priests was ordered to interpret them; he said they related "that
it once contained seven hundred thousand fighting men; that with that army King Rhamses had
conquered Lybia, Ethiopia, the Medes and Persians, the Bactrians and Scythians; and to his
Empire had added the territories of the Syrians, Armenians, and their neighbours the Cappadocians;
a tract of countries reaching from the sea of Bithynia to that of Lycia:" here also was read
the assessment of tribute laid on the several nations; what weight of silver and gold; what
number of horses and arms; what ivory and perfumes, as gifts to the temples; what measures
of grain; what quantities of all necessaries, were by each people paid; revenues equally grand
with those exacted by the denomination of the Parthians, or by the power of the Romans.

Germanicus was intent upon seeing other wonders: the chief were; the effigies of Memnon, a
colossus of stone, yielding when struck by the solar rays, a vocal sound; the Pyramids rising,
like mountains, amongst rolling and almost impassable waves of sand; monuments these of the
emulation and opulency of Egyptian kings; the artificial lake, a receptacle of the overflowing
Nile; and elsewhere abysses of such immense depth, that those, who tried, could never fathom.
Thence he proceeded to Elephantina and Syene, two islands, formerly frontiers of the Roman
empire, which is now widened to the Red Sea.

Whilst Germanicus spent this summer in several provinces, Drusus was sowing feuds amongst the
Germans, and thence reaped no light renown; and, as the power of Maroboduus was already broken,
he engaged them to persist and complete his ruin. Amongst the Gotones was a young man of quality,
his name Catualda, a fugitive long since from the violence of Maroboduus, but now in his distress,
resolved on revenge: hence with a stout band, he entered the borders of the Marcomannians,
and corrupting their chiefs into his alliance, stormed the regal palace, and the castle situate
near it. In the pillage were found the ancient stores of prey accumulated by the Suevians;
as also many victuallers and traders from our provinces; men who were drawn hither from their
several homes, first by privilege of traffic, then retained by a passion to multiply gain,
and at last, through utter oblivion of their own country, fixed, like natives, in a hostile soil.

To Maroboduus on every side forsaken, no other refuge remained but the mercy of Caesar: he
therefore passed the Danube where it washes the province of Norica, and wrote to Tiberius;
not however in the language of a fugitive or supplicant, but with a spirit suitable to his
late grandeur, "that many nations invited him to them, as a king once so glorious; but he preferred
to all the friendship of Rome." The Emperor answered, "that in Italy he should have a safe
and honourable retreat, and, when his affairs required his presence, the same security to return."
But to the Senate he declared, "that never had Philip of Macedon been so terrible to the Athenians;
nor Pyrrhus, nor Antiochus to the Roman people." The speech is extant: in it he magnifies "the
greatness of the man, the fierceness and bravery of the nations his subjects; the alarming
nearness of such an enemy to Italy, and his own artful measures to destroy him." Maroboduus
was kept at Ravenna, for a check and terror to the Suevians; as if, when at any time they grew
turbulent, he were there in readiness to recover their subjection: yet in eighteen years he
left not Italy, but grew old in exile there; his renown too became eminently diminished; such
was the price he paid for an over-passionate love of life. The same fate had Catualda, and
no other sanctuary; he was soon after expulsed by the forces of the Hermundurans led by Vibilius,
and being received under the Roman protection, was conveyed to Forum Julium, a colony in Narbon
Gaul. The barbarians their followers, lest, had they been mixed with the provinces, they might
have disturbed their present quiet, were placed beyond the Danube, between the rivers Marus
and Cusus, and for their king had assigned them Vannius, by nation a Quadian.

As soon as it was known at Rome, that Artaxias was by Germanicus given to the Armenians for
their king, the fathers decreed to him and Drusus the lesser triumph: triumphal arches were
likewise erected, on each side of the Temple of Mars the Avenger, supporting the statues of
these two Caesars; and for Tiberius, he was more joyful to have established peace by policy,
than if by battles and victories he had ended the war.

Germanicus returning from Egypt, learned that all his orders left with the legions, and the
eastern cities, were either entirely abolished, or contrary regulations established: a ground
this for his severe reproaches and insults upon Piso. Nor less keen were the efforts and machinations
of Piso against Germanicus; yet Piso afterwards determined to leave Syria, but was detained
by the following illness of Germanicus: again when he heard of his recovery, and perceived
that vows were paid for his restoration; the Lictors, by his command, broke the solemnity,
drove away the victims already at the altars; overturned the apparatus of the sacrifice; and
scattered the people of Antioch employed in celebrating the festival. He then departed to Seleucia,
waiting the event of the malady which had again assaulted Germanicus. His own persuasion too,
that poison was given him by Piso, heightened the cruel vehemence of the disease: indeed, upon
the floors and walls were found fragments of human bodies, the spoils of the grave; with charms
and incantations; and the name of Germanicus graved on sheets of lead; carcasses half burnt,
besmeared with gore; and other witchcrafts, by which souls are thought doomed to the infernal
gods: besides there were certain persons, charged as creatures of Piso, purposely sent and
employed to watch the progress and efforts of the disease.

These things filled Germanicus with apprehensions great as his resentment: "If his doors,"
he said, "were besieged, if under the eyes of his enemies he must render up his spirit, what
was to be expected to his unhappy wife, what to his infant children?" The progress of poison
was thought too slow; Piso was impatient, and urging with eagerness to command alone the legions,
to possess alone the province: but Germanicus was not sunk to such lowness and impotence, that
the price of his murder should remain with the murderer: and by a letter to Piso, he renounced
his friendship: some add, that he commanded him to depart the province. Nor did Piso tarry
longer, but took ship; yet checked her sailing in order to return with the more quickness,
should the death of Germanicus the while leave the government of Syria vacant.

Germanicus, after a small revival, drooping again; when his end approached, spoke on this wise
to his attending friends: "Were I to yield to the destiny of nature; just, even then, were
my complaints against the Gods, for hurrying me from my parents, my children, and my country,
by a hasty death, in the prime of life: now shortened in my course by the malignity of Piso,
and his wife, to your breasts I commit my last prayers: tell my father, tell my brother, with
what violent persecutions afflicted, with what mortal snares circumvented, I end a most miserable
life by death of all others the worst. All they whose hopes in my fortune, all they whose kindred
blood, and even they whose envy, possessed them with impressions about me whilst living, shall
bewail me dead; that once great in glory, and surviving so many wars, I fell at last by the
dark devices of a woman. To you will be place left to complain in the Senate, and place to
invoke the aid and vengeance of the laws. To commemorate the dead with slothful wailings, is
not the principal office of friends: they are to remember his dying wishes, to fulfil his last
desires. Even strangers will lament Germanicus: you are my friends: if you loved me rather
than my fortune, you will vindicate your friendship: show the people of Rome my wife, her who
is the grand-daughter of Augustus, and enumerate to them our six children. Their compassion
will surely attend you who accuse; and the accused, if they pretend clandestine warrants of
iniquity, will not be believed; if believed, not pardoned." His friends, as a pledge of their
fidelity, touching the hand of the dying prince, swore that they would forego their lives sooner
than their revenge. Then turning to his wife, he besought her "that in tenderness to his memory,
in tenderness to their common children, she would banish her haughty spirit, yield to her hostile
fortune, nor, upon her return to Rome, by an impotent competition for ruling, irritate those
who were masters of rule." So much openly, and more in secret; whence he was believed to have
warned her of guile and danger from Tiberius. Soon after he expired, to the heavy sorrow of
the province, and of all the neighbouring countries; insomuch that remote nations and foreign
kings were mourners: such had been his complacency to our confederates; such his humanity to
his enemies! Alike venerable he was, whether you saw him or heard him; and without ever departing
from the grave port and dignity of his sublime rank, he yet lived destitute of arrogance and
untouched by envy.

The funeral, which was performed without exterior pomp or a procession of images, drew its
solemnity from the loud praises and amiable memory of his virtues. There were those who from
his loveliness, his age, his manner of dying, and even from the proximity of places where both
departed, compared him in the circumstances of his fate, to Great Alexander: "Each of a graceful
person, each of illustrious descent; in years neither much exceeding thirty; both victims to
the malice and machinations of their own people, in the midst of foreign nations: but Germanicus
gentle towards his friends; his pleasures moderate; confined to one wife; all his children
by one bed; nor less a warrior, though not so rash, and however hindered from a final reduction
of Germany, broken by him in so many victories, and ready for the yoke: so that had he been
sole arbiter of things, had he acted with the sovereignty and title of royalty, he had easier
overtaken him in the glory of conquests, as he surpassed him in clemency, in moderation, and
in other virtues." His body, before its commitment to the pile, was exhibited naked in the
Forum of Antioch, the place where the pile was erected: whether it bore the marks of poison,
remained undecided: for, people as they were divided in their affections, as they pitied Germanicus,
and presumed the guilt of Piso, or were partial to him, gave opposite accounts.

It was next debated amongst the legates of the legions and the other senators there, to whom
should be committed the administration of Syria: and after the faint effort of others, it was
long disputed between Vibius Marsus and Cneius Sentius: Marsus at last yielded to Sentius,
the older man and the more vehement competitor. By him one Martina, infamous in that province
for practices in poisoning, and a close confidant of Plancina, was sent to Rome, at the suit
of Vitellius, Veranius, and others, who were preparing criminal articles against Piso and Plancina,
as against persons evidently guilty.

Agrippina, though overwhelmed with sorrow, and her body indisposed, yet impatient of all delays
to her revenge, embarked with the ashes of Germanicus, and her children; attended with universal
commiseration, "that a lady, in quality a princess, wont to be beheld in her late splendid
wedlock with applauses and adorations, was now seen bearing in her bosom her husband's funeral
urn, uncertain of vengeance for him and fearful for herself; unfortunate in her fruitfulness,
and from so many children obnoxious to so many blows of fortune." Piso the while was overtaken
at the Isle of Cooes by a message, "that Germanicus was deceased," and received it intemperately,
slew victims and repaired with thanksgiving to the temples: and yet, however immoderate and
undisguised was his joy, more arrogant and insulting proved that of Plancina, who immediately
threw off her mourning, which for the death of a sister she wore, and assumed a dress adapted
to gaiety and gladness.

About him flocked the Centurions with officious representations, "that upon him particularly
were bent the affections and zeal of the legions, and he should proceed to resume the province,
at first injuriously taken from him and now destitute of a governor." As he therefore consulted
what he had best pursue, his son Marcus Piso advised "a speedy journey to Rome: hitherto,"
he said, "nothing past expiation was committed; nor were impotent suspicions to be dreaded;
nor the idle blazonings of fame: his variance and contention with Germanicus was perhaps subject
to hate and aversion, but to no prosecution or penalty; and, by bereaving him of the province,
his enemies were gratified: but if he returned thither, as Sentius would certainly oppose him
with arms, a civil war would thence be actually begun: neither would the Centurions and soldiers
persist in his party; men with whom the recent memory of their late commander, and an inveterate
love to the Caesarian general, were still prevalent."

Domitius Celer, one in intimate credit with Piso, argued on the contrary, "that the present
event must by all means be improved; it was Piso and not Sentius who had commission to govern
Syria; upon him, were conferred the jurisdiction of Praetor, and the badges of magistracy,
and with him the legions were instructed: so that if acts of hostility were by his opponents
attempted, with how much better warrant could he avow assuming arms in his own right and defence,
who was thus vested with the authority of general, and acted under special orders from the
Emperor. Rumours too were to be neglected, and left to perish with time: in truth to the sallies
and violence of recent hate the innocent were often unequal: but were he once possessed of
the army, and had well augmented his forces, many things, not to be foreseen, would from fortune
derive success. Are we then preposterously hastening to arrive at Rome with the ashes of Germanicus,
that you may there fall, unheard and undefended, a victim to the wailings of Agrippina, a prey
to the passionate populace governed by the first impressions of rumour? Livia, it is true,
is your confederate; Tiberius is your friend; but both secretly: and indeed none will more
pompously bewail the violent fate of Germanicus, than such as for it do most sincerely rejoice."

Piso of himself prompt to violent pursuits, was with no great labour persuaded into this opinion,
and, in a letter transmitted to Tiberius, accused Germanicus "of luxury and pride: that for
himself, he had been expulsed, to leave room for dangerous designs against the State, and now
resumed, with his former faith and loyalty, the care of the army." In the meantime he put Domitius
on board a galley, and ordered him to avoid appearing upon the coasts or amongst the isles,
but, through the main sea, to sail to Syria. The deserters, who from all quarters were flocking
to him in crowds, he formed into companies, and armed all the retainers to the camp; then sailing
over to the continent, intercepted a regiment of recruits, upon their march into Syria; and
wrote to the small kings of Cilicia to assist him with present succours: nor was the younger
Piso slow in prosecuting all the measures of war, though to adventure a war had been against
his sentiments and advice.

As they coasted Lycia and Pamphilia, they encountered the ships which carried Agrippina, with
hostile spirit on each side, and each at first prepared for combat; but as equal dread of one
another possessed both, proceeded not further than mutual contumelies. Vibius Marsus particularly
summoned Piso, as a criminal, to Rome, there to make his defence: he answered with derision
"that when the Praetor, who was to sit upon poisonings, had assigned a day to the accusers
and the accused, he would attend." Domitius, the while, landing at Laodicea, a city of Syria,
would have proceeded to the winter quarters of the sixth legion, which he believed to be the
most prone to engage in novel attempts, but was prevented by Pacuvius, its commander. Sentius
represented this by letter to Piso, and warned him, "at his peril to infect the camp by ministers
of corruption; or to assail the province of war;" and drew into a body such as he knew loved
Germanicus, or such as were averse to his foes: upon them he inculcated with much ardour, that
Piso was with open arms attacking the majesty of the Prince, and invading the Roman State;
and then marched at the head of a puissant body, equipped for battle and resolute to engage.

Neither failed Piso, though his enterprises had thus far miscarried, to apply the securest
remedies to his present perplexities; and therefore seized a castle of Cilicia strongly fortified,
its name Celendris: for, to the auxiliary Cilicians, sent him by the petty kings, he had joined
his body of deserters, as also the recruits lately intercepted, with all his own and Plancina's
slaves; and thus in number and bulk had of the whole composed a legion. To them he thus harangued:
"I who am the lieutenant of Caesar, am yet violently excluded from the province which to me
Caesar has committed: not excluded by the legions (for by their invitation I am arrived), but
by Sentius, who thus disguises under feigned crimes against me, his own animosity and personal
hate: but with confidence you may stand in battle, where the opposite army, upon the sight
of Piso, a commander lately by themselves styled their Father, will certainly refuse to fight;
they know too, that were right to decide it, I am the stronger; and of no mean puissance in
a trial at arms." He then arrayed his men without the fortifications, on a hill steep and craggy,
for all the rest was begirt by the sea: against them stood the veterans regularly embattled,
and supported with a body of reserve; so that here appeared the force of men, there only the
terror and stubbornness of situation. On Piso's side was no spirit, nor hope, nor even weapons
save those of rustics, for instant necessity hastily acquired. As soon as they came to blows,
the issue was no longer doubtful than while the Roman cohorts struggled up the steep: the Cilicians
then fled, and shut themselves up in the castle.

Piso having the while attempted in vain to storm the fleet, which rode at a small distance,
as soon as he returned, presented himself upon the walls; where, by a succession of passionate
complaints and entreaties, now bemoaning in agonies the bitterness of his lot, then calling
and cajolling every particular soldier by his name, and by rewards tempting all, he laboured
to excite a sedition; and thus much had already effected, that the Eagle-bearer of the sixth
legion revolted to him with his Eagle. This alarmed Sentius, and instantly he commanded the
cornets and trumpets to sound, a mound to be raised, the ladders placed, and the bravest men
to mount, and others to pour from the engines volleys of darts and stones, and flaming torches.
The obstinacy of Piso was at last vanquished; and he desired "that upon delivering his arms
he might remain in the castle till the Emperor's pleasure, to whom he would commit the government
of Syria, were known;" conditions which were not accepted; nor was aught granted him save ships
and a passport to Rome.

After the illness of Germanicus grew current there, and all its circumstances, like rumours
magnified by distance, were related with many aggravations; sadness seized the people; they
burned with indignation, and even poured out in plaints the anguish of their souls. "For this,"
they said, "he had been banished to the extremities of the Empire, for this the province of
Syria was committed to Piso, and these the fruits of Livia's mysterious conferences with Plancina:
truly had our fathers spoken concerning his father Drusus; that the possessors of rule beheld
with an evil eye the popular spirit of their sons; nor for aught else were they sacrificed,
but for their equal treatment of the Roman People, and studying to restore the popular state."
These lamentations of the populace were, upon the tidings of his death, so inflamed, that,
without staying for an edict from the magistrates, without a decree of Senate, they by general
consent assumed a vacation; the public courts were deserted, private houses shut up, prevalent
everywhere were the symptoms of woe, heavy groans, dismal silence; the whole a scene of real
sorrow, and nothing devised for form or show; and, though they forbore not to bear the exterior
marks and habiliments of mourning; in their souls they mourned still deeper. Accidentally some
merchants from Syria, who had left Germanicus still alive, brought more joyful news of his
condition: these were instantly believed, and instantly proclaimed: each, as fast as they met,
informed others, who forthwith conveyed their light information with improvements and accumulated
joy to more, and all flew with exultation through the city; and, to pay their thanks and vows,
burst open the temple doors: the night too heightened their credulity, and affirmation was
bolder in the dark. Nor did Tiberius restrain the course of these fictions, but left them to
vanish with time: hence with more bitterness they afterwards grieved for him, as if anew snatched
from them.

Honours were invented and decreed to Germanicus, various as the affections and genius of the
particular Senators who proposed them: "that his name should be sung in the Salian hymns; curule
chairs placed for him amongst the priests of Augustus, and over these chairs oaken crowns hung;
his statue in ivory precede in the Cercensian games; none but one of the Julian race be, in
the room of Germanicus, created flamen or augur:" triumphal arches were added; one at Rome;
one upon the banks of the Rhine; one upon Mount Amanus, in Syria; with inscriptions of his
exploits, and a testimony subjoined, "that he died for the Commonwealth:" a sepulchre at Antioch,
where his corpse was burnt; a tribunal at Epidaphne, the place where he ended his life. The
multitude of statues, the many places where divine honours were appointed to be paid him, would
not be easily recounted. They would have also decreed him, as to one of the masters of eloquence,
a golden shield, signal in bulk as in metal; but Tiberius offered to dedicate one himself,
such as was usual and of a like size with others; for that eloquence was not measured by fortune;
and it was sufficient glory, if he were ranked with ancient writers. The battalion called after
the name of the Junii was now, by the equestrian order, entitled the battalion of Germanicus,
and a rule made that, on every fifteenth of July, these troops should follow, as their standard,
the effigies of Germanicus: of these honours many continue; some were instantly omitted, or
by time are utterly obliterated.

In the height of this public sorrow, Livia, sister to Germanicus, and married to Drusus, was
delivered of male twins: an event even in middling families, rare and acceptable, and to Tiberius
such mighty matter of joy, that he could not refrain boasting to the fathers, "that to no Roman
of the same eminence, before him, were never two children born at a birth:" for to his own
glory he turned all things, even things fortuitous. But to the people, at such a sad conjuncture,
it brought fresh anguish; as they feared that the family of Drusus thus increased, would press
heavy upon that of Germanicus.

The same year the lubricity of women was by the Senate restrained with severe laws; and it
was provided, "that no woman should become venal, if her father, grandfather or husband, were
Roman knights." For Vistilia, a lady born of a Praetorian family, had before the Aediles published
herself a prostitute; upon a custom allowed by our ancestors, who thought that prostitutes
were by thus avowing their infamy, sufficiently punished. Titidius Labeo too was questioned,
that in the manifest guilt of his wife, he had neglected the punishment prescribed by the law;
but he alleged that the sixty days allowed for consultation were not elapsed; and it was deemed
sufficient to proceed against Vistilia, who was banished to the Isle of Seriphos. Measures
were also taken for exterminating the solemnities of the Jews and Egyptians; and by decree
of Senate four thousand descendants of franchised slaves, all defiled with that superstition,
but of proper strength and age, were to be transported to Sardinia; to restrain the Sardinian
robbers; and if, through the malignity of the climate, they perished, despicable would be the
loss: the rest were doomed to depart Italy, unless by a stated day they renounced their profane
rites.

After this Tiberius represented that, to supply the place of Occia, who had presided seven
and fifty years with the highest sanctimony over the Vestals, another virgin was to be chosen;
and thanked Fonteius Agrippa and Asinius Pollio, that by offering their daughters, they contended
in good offices towards the Commonwealth. Pollio's daughter was preferred; for nothing else
but that her mother had ever continued in the same wedlock: for Agrippa, by a divorce, had
impaired the credit of his house: upon her who was postponed, Tiberius, in consolation, bestowed
for her fortune a thousand great sestertia. [Footnote: L8300.]

As the people murmured at the severe dearth of corn, he settled grain at a price certain to
the buyer, and undertook to pay fourteenpence a measure to the seller: neither yet would he
accept the name of Father of his Country, a title offered him before, and for these bounties,
now again; nay, he sharply rebuked such as styled these provisions of his, divine occupations,
and him, Lord: hence freedom of speech became cramped and insecure, under such a Prince; one
who dreaded liberty, and abhorred flattery.

I find in the writers of those times, some of them Senators, that in the Senate were read letters
from Adgandestrius, prince of the Cattans, undertaking to despatch Arminius, if in order to
it poison were sent him; and an answer returned, "that not by frauds and blows in the dark,
but armed and in the face of the sun, the Roman People took vengeance on their foes." In this
Tiberius gained equal glory with our ancient captains, who rejected and disclosed a plot to
poison King Pyrrhus. Arminius however, who upon the departure of the Romans and expulsion of
Maroboduus, aimed at royalty, became thence engaged in a struggle against the liberty of his
country; and, in defence of their liberty, his countrymen took arms against him: so that, while
with various fortune he contended with them, he fell by the treachery of his own kindred: the
deliverer of Germany without doubt he was; one who assailed the Roman power, not like other
kings and leaders, in its first elements, but in its highest pride and elevation; one sometimes
beaten in battle, but never conquered in war: thirty-seven years he lived; twelve he commanded;
and, amongst these barbarous nations, his memory is still celebrated in their songs; but his
name unknown in the annals of the Greeks, who only admire their own national exploits and renown;
nor even amongst the Romans does this great captain bear much distinction, while, overlooking
instances of modern prowess and glory, we only delight to magnify men and feats of old.

BOOK III

A.D. 20-22.

Agrippina, notwithstanding the roughness of winter, pursuing without intermission her boisterous
voyage, put in at the Island Corcyra, [Footnote: Corfu.] situate over against the coasts of
Calabria. Here to settle her spirit, she spent a few days, violent in her grief, and a stranger
to patience. Her arrival being the while divulged, all the particular friends to her family,
mostly men of the sword, many who had served under Germanicus, and even many strangers from
the neighbouring towns, some in officiousness towards the Emperor, more for company, crowded
to the city of Brundusium, the readiest port in her way and the safest landing. As soon as
the fleet appeared in the deep, instantly were filled, not the port alone and adjacent shores,
but the walls and roofs, and as far as the eye could go; filled with the sorrowing multitude.
They were consulting one from one, how they should receive her landing, "whether with universal
silence, or with some note of acclamation." Nor was it manifest which they would do, when the
fleet stood slowly in, not as usual with joyful sailors and cheerful oars, but all things impressed
with the face of sadness. After she descended from the ship, accompanied with her two infants,
carrying in her bosom the melancholy urn, with her eyes cast steadily down; equal and universal
were the groans of the beholders: nor could you distinguish relations from strangers, nor the
wailings of men from those of women, unless that the new-comers, who were recent in their sallies
of grief, exceeded Agrippina's attendants, wearied out with long lamentations.

Tiberius had despatched two Praetorian cohorts, with directions, that the magistrates of Calabria,
Apulia and Campania, should pay their last offices to the memory of his son: upon the shoulders
therefore of the Tribunes and Centurions his ashes were borne; before went the ensigns rough
and unadorned, with the fasces reversed. As they passed through the colonies, the populace
were in black, the knights in purple; and each place, according to its wealth, burnt precious
raiment, perfumes and whatever else is used in funeral solemnities: even they whose cities
lay remote attended: to the Gods of the dead they slew victims, they erected altars, and with
tears and united lamentations, testified their common sorrow. Drusus came as far as Terracina,
with Claudius the brother of Germanicus, and those of his children who had been left at Rome.
The Consuls Marcus Valerius and Marcus Aurelius (just then entered upon their office), the
Senate, and great part of the people, filled the road; a scattered procession, each walking
and weeping his own way: in this mourning, flattery had no share; for all knew how real was
the joy, how hollow the grief, of Tiberius for the death of Germanicus.

Tiberius and Livia avoided appearing abroad: public lamentation they thought below their grandeur;
or perhaps they apprehended that their countenances, examined by all eyes, might show deceitful
hearts. That Antonia, mother to the deceased, bore any part in the funeral, I do not find either
in the historians or in the city journals: though, besides Agrippina, and Drusus, and Claudius,
his other relations are likewise there recorded by name: whether by sickness she was prevented;
or whether her soul vanquished by sorrow, could not bear the representation of such a mighty
calamity. I would rather believe her constrained by Tiberius and Livia, who left not the palace;
and affecting equal affliction with her, would have it seem that, by the example of the mother,
the grandmother too and uncle were detained.

The day his remains were reposited in the tomb of Augustus, various were the symptoms of public
grief; now the vastness of silence; now the uproar of lamentation; the city in every quarter
full of processions; the field of Mars on a blaze of torches: here the soldiers under arms,
the magistrates without the insignia, the people by their tribes, all cried in concert that
"the Commonwealth was fallen, and henceforth there was no remain of hope;" so openly and boldly
that you would have believed they had forgot, who bore sway. But nothing pierced Tiberius more
than the ardent affections of the people towards Agrippina, while such titles they gave her
as "the ornament of her country, the only blood of Augustus, the single instance of ancient
virtue;" and, while applying to heaven, they implored "the continuance of her issue, that they
might survive the persecuting and malignant."

There were those who missed the pomp of a public funeral, and compared with this the superior
honours and magnificence bestowed by Augustus on that of Drusus the father of Germanicus; "that
he himself had travelled, in the sharpness of winter, as far as Pavia, and thence, continuing
by the corpse, had with it entered the city; round his head were placed the images of the Claudii
and Julii; he was mourned in the Forum; his encomium pronounced in the Rostras; all sorts of
honours, such as were the inventions of our ancestors, or the improvements of their posterity,
were heaped upon him. But to Germanicus were denied the ordinary solemnities, and such as were
due to every distinguished Roman. In a foreign country indeed, his corpse because of the long
journey, was burnt without pomp; but afterwards, it was but just to have supplied the scantiness
of the first ceremony by the solemnity of the last: his brother met him but one day's journey;
his uncle not even at the gate. Where were those generous observations of the ancients; the
effigies of the dead borne on a bed, hymns composed in memory of their virtue, with the oblations
of praise and tears? Where at least were the ceremonies and even outside of sorrow?"

All this was known to Tiberius; and, to suppress the discourses of the populace, he published
an edict, "that many illustrious Romans had died for the Commonwealth, but none so vehemently
lamented: this however was to the glory of himself and of all men, if a measure were observed.
The same things which became private families and small states, became not Princes and an Imperial
People: fresh grief indeed required vent and ease by lamentation; but it was now time to recover
and fortify their minds. Thus the deified Julius, upon the loss of an only daughter; thus the
deified Augustus, upon the hasty death of his grandsons, had both vanquished their sorrow.
More ancient examples were unnecessary; how often the Roman People sustained with constancy
the slaughter of their armies, the death of their generals, and entire destruction of their
noblest families: Princes were mortal; the Commonwealth was eternal: they should therefore
resume their several vocations." And because the Megalesian games were at hand, he added, "that
they should even apply to the usual festivities."

The vacation ended, public affairs were resumed; Drusus departed for the army in Illyricum,
and the minds of all men were bent upon seeing vengeance done upon Piso. They repeated their
resentments, that while he wandered over the delightful countries of Asia and Greece, he was
stifling, by contumacious and deceitful delays, the evidences of his crimes; for it was bruited
abroad, that Martina, she who was famous for poisonings, and sent, as I have above related,
by Cneius Sentius towards Rome, was suddenly dead at Brundusium; that poison lay concealed
in a knot of her hair, but upon her body were found no symptoms of self-murder.

Piso, sending forward his son to Rome, with instructions how to soften the Emperor, proceeded
himself to Drusus: him he hoped to find less rigid for the death of a brother, than favourable
for the removal of a rival. Tiberius, to make show of a spirit perfectly unbiassed, received
the young man graciously, and honoured him with the presents usually bestowed on young noblemen.
The answer of Drusus to Piso was, "That if the current rumours were true, he stood in the first
place of grief and revenge; but he hoped they were false and chimerical, and that the death
of Germanicus would be pernicious to none." This he declared in public, and avoided all privacy:
nor was it doubted but the answer was dictated by Tiberius; when a youth, otherwise easy and
unwary, practised thus the wiles and cunning of age.

Piso having crossed the sea of Dalmatia, and left his ships at Ancona, took first the road
of Picenum and then the Flaminian way, following the legion which was going from Pannonia to
Rome, and thence to garrison in Africa. This too became the subject of popular censure, that
he officiously mixed with the soldiers, and courted them in their march and quarters: he therefore,
to avoid suspicion; or, because when men are in dread, their conduct wavers, did at Narni embark
upon the Nar, and thence sailed into the Tiber. By landing at the burying-place of the Caesars,
he heightened the wrath of the populace: besides, he and Plancina came ashore, in open day,
in the face of the city who were crowding the banks, and proceeded with gay countenances; he
attended by a long band of clients, she by a train of ladies. There were yet other provocations
to hatred; the situation of his house, proudly overlooking the Forum, and adorned and illuminated
as for a festival; the banquet and rejoicings held in it, and all as public as the place.

The next day Fulcinius Trio arraigned Piso before the Consuls, but was opposed by Vitellius,
Veranius, and others, who had accompanied Germanicus: they said, "that in this prosecution
Trio had no part; nor did they themselves act as accusers, but only gathered materials, and,
as witnesses, produced the last injunctions of Germanicus." Trio dropped that accusation; but
got leave to call in question his former life: and now the Emperor was desired to undertake
the trial; a request which the accused did not at all oppose, dreading the inclinations of
the people and Senate: he knew Tiberius, on the contrary, resolute in despising popular rumours,
and in guilt confederate with his mother: besides that truth and misrepresentations were easiest
distinguished by a single judge, but in assemblies odium and envy often prevailed. Tiberius
was aware of the weight of the trial, and with what reproaches he was assaulted. Admitting
therefore a few confidants, he heard the charge of the accusers, as also the apology of the
accused; and left the cause entire to the Senate.

Drusus returned the while from Illyricum; and though the Senate had for the reduction of Maroboduus,
and other his exploits the summer before, decreed him the triumph of ovation; he postponed
the honour, and privately entered the city. Piso, for his advocates, desired Titus Arruntius,
Fulcinius, Asinius Gallus, Eserninus Marcellus, and Sextus Pompeius: but they all framed different
excuses; and he had, in their room, Marcus Lepidus, Lucius Piso and Liveneius Regulus. Now
earnest were the expectations of all men, "how great would prove the fidelity of the friends
of Germanicus; what the assurance of the criminal, what the behaviour of Tiberius; whether
he would sufficiently smother, or betray his sentiments." He never had a more anxious part;
neither did the people ever indulge themselves in such secret murmurs against their Emperor,
nor harbour in silence severer suspicions.

When the Senate met, Tiberius made a speech full of laboured moderation: "That Piso had been
his father's lieutenant and friend; and lately appointed by himself, at the direction of the
Senate, coadjutor to Germanicus in administering the affairs of the East: whether he had there
by contumacy and opposition exasperated the young Prince, and exulted over his death, or wickedly
procured it, they were then to judge with minds unprejudiced. For, if he who was the lieutenant
of my son violated the limits of his commission, cast off obedience to his general, and even
rejoiced at his decease and at my affliction; I will detest the man, I will banish him from
my house, and for domestic injuries exert domestic revenge; not the revenge of an Emperor.
But for you; if his guilt of any man's death whatsoever is discovered, show your just vengeance,
and by it satisfy yourselves, satisfy the children of Germanicus, and us his father and grandmother.
Consider too especially, whether he vitiated the discipline and promoted sedition in the army;
whether he sought to debauch the affections of the soldiers, and to recover the province by
arms: or whether these allegations are not published falsely and with aggravations by the accusers,
with whose over-passionate zeal, I am justly offended: for, whither tended the stripping the
corpse and exposing it to the eyes and examination of the populace; with what view was it proclaimed
even to foreign nations, that his death was the effect of poison; if all this was still doubtful,
and remains yet to be tried? It is true I bewail my son, and shall ever bewail him: but neither
do I hinder the accused to do what in him lies to manifest his innocence, even at the expense
of Germanicus, if aught blamable was in him. From you I entreat the same impartiality: let
not the connection of my sorrow with this cause, mislead you to take crimes for proved because
they are imputed. For Piso; if the tenderness of kinsmen, if the faith of friends, has furnished
him with patrons, let them aid him in his peril, show their utmost eloquence, and exert their
best diligence. To the same pains, to the same firmness I exhort the accusers. Thus much we
will grant to the memory of Germanicus, that the inquest concerning his death, be held rather
here than in the Forum, in the Senate than the common Tribunals. In all the rest, we will descend
to the ordinary methods. Let no man in this cause consider Drusus's tears; let none regard
my sorrow, no more than the probable fictions of calumny against us."

Two days were then appointed for maintaining the charge; six for preparing the defence, and
three for making it. Fulcinius began with things stale and impertinent, about the ambition
and rapine of Piso in his administration of Spain: things which, though proved, brought him
under no penalty, if acquitted of the present charge; nor, though he had been cleared of former
faults, could he escape the load of greater enormities. After him Servaeus, Veranius, and Vitellius,
all with equal zeal, but Vitellius with great eloquence urged "that Piso, in hatred to Germanicus,
and passionate for innovations, had by tolerating general licentiousness, and the oppression
of the allies, corrupted the common soldiers to that degree, that by the most profligate he
was styled Father of the Legions: he had, on the contrary, been outrageous to the best men,
above all to the friends and companions of Germanicus; and, at last, by witchcraft and poison
destroyed Germanicus himself: hence the infernal charms and immolations practised by him and
Plancina: he had then attacked the Commonwealth with open arms; and, before he could be brought
to be tried, they were forced to fight and defeat him."

In every article but one his defence was faltering. For, neither his dangerous intrigues in
debauching the soldiery, nor his abandoning the province to the most profligate and rapacious,
nor even his insults to Germanicus, were to be denied. He seemed only to wipe off the charge
of poison; a charge which in truth was not sufficiently corroborated by the accusers, since
they had only to allege, "that at an entertainment of Germanicus, Piso, while he sat above
him, with his hands poisoned the meat." It appeared absurd that amongst so many attending slaves
besides his own, in so great a presence, and under the eye of Germanicus, he would attempt
it: he himself required that the waiters might be racked, and offered to the rack his own domestics:
but the Judges were implacable, implacable from different motives; Tiberius for the war raised
in the province; and the Senate could never be convinced that the death of Germanicus was not
the effect of fraud. Some moved for the letters written to Piso from Rome; a motion opposed
by Tiberius no less than by Piso. From without, at the same time, were heard the cries of the
people, "that if he escaped the judgment of the Senate, they would with their own hands destroy
him." They had already dragged his statues to the place from whence malefactors were precipitated,
and there had broken them; but by the orders of Tiberius they were rescued and replaced. Piso
was put into a litter and carried back by a tribune of a Praetorian cohort; an attendance variously
understood, whether as a guard for his safety, or a minister of death.

Plancina was under equal public hatred, but had more secret favour: hence it was doubted how
far Tiberius durst proceed against her. For herself; while her husband's hopes were yet plausible,
she professed "she would accompany his fortune, whatever it were, and, if he fell, fall with
him." But when by the secret solicitations of Livia, she had secured her own pardon, she began
by degrees to drop her husband, and to make a separate defence. When he was brought home, as
if he were preparing for his further defence the next day, he wrote somewhat, which he sealed
and delivered to his freedman: he then washed and anointed, and took the usual care of his
person. Late in the night, his wife leaving the chamber, he ordered the door to be shut; and
was found, at break of day, with his throat cut, his sword lying by him.

I remember to have heard from ancient men, that in the hands of Piso was frequently seen a
bundle of writings, which he did not expose, but which, as his friends constantly averred,
"contained the letters of Tiberius and his cruel orders towards Germanicus: that he resolved
to lay them before the Fathers and to charge the Emperor, but was deluded by the hollow promises
of Sejanus: and that neither did Piso die by his own hands, but by those of an express and
private executioner." I dare affirm neither; nor yet ought I to conceal the relations of such
as still lived when I was a youth. Tiberius, with an assumed air of sadness, complained to
the Senate, that Piso, by that sort of death, had aimed to load him with obloquy; and asked
many questions how he had passed his last day, how his last night? The freedman answered to
most with prudence, to some in confusion. The Emperor then recited the letter sent him by Piso.
It was conceived almost in these words: "Oppressed by a combination of my enemies and the imputation
of false crimes; since no place is left here to truth and my innocence; to the Immortal Gods
I appeal, that towards you, Caesar, I have lived with sincere faith, nor towards your mother
with less reverence. For my sons I implore her protection and yours: my son Cneius had no share
in my late management whatever it were, since, all the while, he abode at Rome: and my son
Marcus dissuaded me from returning to Syria. Oh that, old as I am, I had yielded to him, rather
than he, young as he is, to me! Hence more passionately I pray that innocent as he is, he suffer
not in the punishment of my guilt: by a series of services for five-and-forty years, I entreat
you; by our former fellowship in the consulship; by the memory of the deified Augustus, your
father; by his friendship to me; by mine to you, I entreat you for the life and fortune of
my unhappy son. It is the last request I shall ever make you." Of Plancina he said nothing.

Tiberius, upon this, cleared the young man of any crime as to the civil war: he alleged "the
orders of his father, which a son could not disobey." He likewise bewailed "that noble house,
and even the grievous lot of Piso himself, however deserved," For Plancina he pleaded with
shame and guilt, alleging the importunity of his mother; against whom more particularly the
secret murmurs of the best people waxed bitter and poignant. "Was it then the tender part of
a grandmother to admit to her sight the murderess of her grandson, to be intimate with her,
and to snatch her from the vengeance of the Senate? To Germanicus alone was denied what by
the laws was granted to every citizen. By Vitellius and Veranius, the cause of that prince
was mourned and pleaded: by the Emperor and his mother, Plancina was defended and protected.
Henceforth she might pursue her infernal arts so successfully tried, repeat her poisonings,
and by her arts and poisons assail Agrippina and her children; and, with the blood of that
most miserable house, satiate the worthy grandmother and uncle." In this mock trial two days
were wasted; Tiberius, all the while, animating the sons of Piso to defend their mother: when
the pleaders and witnesses had vigorously pushed the charge, and no reply was made, commiseration
prevailed over hatred. The Consul Aurelius Cotta was first asked his opinion: for, when the
Emperor collected the voices, the magistrates likewise voted. Cotta's sentence was, "that the
name of Piso should be razed from the annals, part of his estate forfeited, part granted to
his son Cneius, upon changing that name; his son Marcus be divested of his dignity, and content
with fifty thousand great sestertia, [Footnote: L42,000.] be banished for ten years: and to
Plancina, at the request of Livia, indemnity should be granted."

Much of this sentence was abated by the Emperor; particularly that of striking Piso's name
out of the annals, when "that of Marc Anthony, who made war upon his country; that of Julius
Antonius, who had by adultery violated the house of Augustus, continued still there." He also
exempted Marcus Piso from the ignominy of degradation, and left him his whole paternal inheritance;
for, as I have already often observed, he was to the temptations of money incorruptible, and
from the shame of having acquitted Plancina, rendered then more than usually mild. He likewise
withstood the motion of Valerius Messalinus, "for erecting a golden statue in the Temple of
Mars the Avenger;" and that of Caecina Severus, "for founding an altar to revenge." "Such monuments
as these," he argued, "were only fit to be raised upon foreign victories; domestic evils were
to be buried in sadness." Messalinus had added, "that to Tiberius, Livia, Antonia, Agrippina
and Drusus, public thanks were to be rendered for having revenged the death of Germanicus;"
but had omitted to mention Claudius. Messalinus was asked by Lucius Asprenas, in the presence
of the Senate, "Whether by design he had omitted him?" and then at last the name of Claudius
was subjoined. To me, the more I revolve the events of late or of old, the more of mockery
and slipperiness appears in all human wisdom and the transactions of men: for, in popular fame,
in the hopes, wishes and veneration of the public, all men were rather destined to the Empire,
than he for whom fortune then reserved the sovereignty in the dark.

A few days after, Vitellius, Veranius and Servaeus, were by the Senate preferred to the honours
of the Priesthood, at the motion of Tiberius. To Fulcinius he promised his interest and suffrage
towards preferment, but advised him "not to embarrass his eloquence by impetuosity." This was
the end of revenging the death of Germanicus; an affair ambiguously related, not by those only
who then lived and interested themselves in it, but likewise the following times: so dark and
intricate are all the highest transactions; while some hold for certain facts, the most precarious
hearsays; others turn facts into falsehood; and both are swallowed and improved by the credulity
of posterity. Drusus went now without the city, there to renew the ceremony of the auspices,
and presently re-entered in the triumph of ovation. A few days after died Vipsania his mother;
of all the children of Agrippa, the only one who made a pacific end: the rest manifestly perished,
or are believed to have perished, by the sword, poison, or famine.

The qualifying of the Law Papia Poppaea was afterwards proposed; a law which, to enforce those
of Julius Caesar, Augustus had made when he was old, for punishing celibacy and enriching the
Exchequer. Nor even by this means had marriages and children multiplied, while a passion to
live single and childless prevailed: but, in the meantime, the numbers threatened and in danger
by it increased daily, while by the glosses and chicane of the impleaders every family was
undone. So that, as before the city laboured under the weight of crimes, so now under the pest
of laws. From this thought I am led backwards to the first rise of laws, and to open the steps
and causes by which we are arrived to the present number and excess; a number infinite and
perplexed.

The first race of men, free as yet from every depraved passion, lived without guile and crimes,
and therefore without chastisements or restraints; nor was there occasion for rewards, when
of their own accord they pursued righteousness: and as they courted nothing contrary to justice,
they were debarred from nothing by terrors. But, after they had abandoned their original equality,
and from modesty and shame to do evil, proceeded to ambition and violence; lordly dominion
was introduced and arbitrary rule, and in many nations grew perpetual. Some, either from the
beginning, or after they were surfeited with kings, preferred the sovereignty of laws; which,
agreeable to the artless minds of men, were at first short and simple. The laws in most renown
were those framed for the Cretans by Minos; for the Spartans by Lycurgus; and afterwards such
as Solon delivered to the Athenians, now greater in number and more exquisitely composed. To
the Romans justice was administered by Romulus according to his pleasure: after him, Numa managed
the people by religious devices and laws divine. Some institutions were made by Tullus Hostilius,
some by Ancus Martius; but above all our laws were those founded by Servius Tullius; they were
such as even our kings were bound to obey.

Upon the expulsion of Tarquin; the people, for the security of their freedom against the encroachment
and factions of the Senate, and for binding the public concord, prepared many ordinances: hence
were created the Decemviri, and by them were composed the twelve tables, out of a collection
of the most excellent institutions found abroad. The period this of all upright and impartial
laws. What laws followed, though sometimes made against crimes and offenders, were yet chiefly
made by violence, through the animosity of the two Estates, and for seizing unjustly withholden
offices or continuing unjustly in them, or for banishing illustrious patriots, and to other
wicked ends. Hence the Gracchi and Saturnini, inflamers of the people; and hence Drusus vying,
on behalf of the Senate, in popular concessions with these inflamers; and hence the corrupt
promises made to our Italian allies, promises deceitfully made, or, by the interposition of
some Tribune, defeated. Neither during the war of Italy, nor during the civil war, was the
making of regulations discontinued; many and contradictory were even then made. At last Sylla
the Dictator, changing or abolishing the past, added many of his own, and procured some respite
in this matter, but not long; for presently followed the turbulent pursuits and proposals of
Lepidus, and soon after were the Tribunes restored to their licentious authority of throwing
the people into combustions at pleasure. And now laws were not made for the public only, but
for particular men particular laws; and corruption abounding in the Commonwealth, the Commonwealth
abounded in laws.

Pompey was, now in his third Consulship, chosen to correct the public enormities; and his remedies
proved to the State more grievous than its distempers. He made laws such as suited his ambition,
and broke them when they thwarted his will; and lost by arms the regulations which by arms
he had procured. Henceforward for twenty years discord raged, and there was neither law nor
settlement; the most wicked found impunity in the excess of their wickedness; and many virtuous
men, in their uprightness met destruction. At length, Augustus Caesar in his sixth Consulship,
then confirmed in power without a rival, abolished the orders which during the Triumvirate
he had established, and gave us laws proper for peace and a single ruler. These laws had sanctions
severer than any heretofore known: as their guardians, informers were appointed, who by the
Law Papia Poppaea were encouraged with rewards, to watch such as neglected the privileges annexed
to marriage and fatherhood, and consequently could claim no legacy or inheritance, the same,
as vacant, belonging to the Roman People, who were the public parent. But these informers struck
much deeper: by them the whole city, all Italy, and the Roman citizens in every part of the
Empire, were infested and persecuted: numbers were stripped of their entire fortunes, and terror
had seized all; when Tiberius, for a check to this evil, chose twenty noblemen, five who were
formerly Consuls, five who were formerly Praetors, with ten other Senators, to review that
law. By them many of its intricacies were explained, its strictness qualified; and hence some
present alleviation was yielded.

Tiberius about this time, to the Senate recommended Nero, one of the sons of Germanicus, now
seventeen years of age, and desired "that he might be exempted from executing the office of
the Vigintivirate, [Footnote: Officers for distributing the public lands; for regulating the
mint, the roads, and the execution of criminals.] and have leave to sue for the Quaestorship
five years sooner than the laws directed." A piece of mockery, this request to all who heard
it: but, Tiberius pretended "that the same concessions had been decreed to himself and his
brother Drusus, at the request of Augustus." Nor do I doubt, but there were then such who secretly
ridiculed that sort of petitions from Augustus: such policy was however natural to that Prince,
while he was but yet laying the foundations of the Imperial power, and while the Republic and
its late laws were still fresh in the minds of men: besides, the relation was lighter between
Augustus and his wife's sons, than between a grandfather and his grandsons. To the grant of
the Quaestorship was added a seat in the College of Pontiffs; and the first day he entered
the Forum in his manly robe, a donative of corn and money was distributed to the populace,
who exulted to behold a son of Germanicus now of age. Their joy was soon heightened by his
marriage with Julia, the daughter of Drusus. But as these transactions were attended with public
applauses; so the intended marriage of the daughter of Sejanus with the son of Claudius was
received with popular indignation. By this alliance the nobility of the Claudian house seemed
stained; and by it Sejanus, already suspected of aspiring views, was lifted still higher.

At the end of this year died Lucius Volusius and Sallustius Crispus; great and eminent men.
The family of Volusius was ancient, but, in the exercise of public offices, rose never higher
than the Praetorship; it was he, who honoured it with the Consulship: he was likewise created
Censor for modelling the classes of the equestrian order; and first accumulated the wealth
which gave that family such immense grandeur. Crispus was born of an equestrian house, great
nephew by a sister to Caius Sallustius, the renowned Roman historian, and by him adopted: the
way to the great offices was open to him; but, in imitation of Maecenas, he lived without the
dignity of Senator, yet outwent in power many who were distinguished with Consulships and triumphs:
his manner of living, his dress and daintiness were different from the ways of antiquity; and,
in expense and affluence, he bordered rather upon luxury. He possessed however a vigour of
spirit equal to great affairs, and exerted the greater promptness for that he hid it in a show
of indolence and sloth: he was therefore, in the time of Maecenas, the next in favour, afterwards
chief confidant in all the secret counsels of Augustus and Tiberius, and privy and consenting
to the order for slaying Agrippa Posthumus. In his old age he preserved with the Prince rather
the outside than the vitals of authority: the same had happened to Maecenas. It is the fate
of power, which is rarely perpetual; perhaps from satiety on both sides, when Princes have
no more to grant, and Ministers no more to crave.

Next followed the Consulship of Tiberius and Drusus; to Tiberius the fourth, to Drusus the
second: a Consulship remarkable, for that in it the father and son were colleagues. There was
indeed the same fellowship between Tiberius and Germanicus, two years before; but besides the
distastes of jealousy in the uncle, the ties of blood were not so near. In the beginning of
the year, Tiberius, on pretence of his health, retired to Campania; either already meditating
a long and perpetual retirement; or to leave to Drusus, in his father's absence, the honour
of executing the Consulship alone: and there happened a thing which, small in itself, yet as
it produced mighty contestation, furnished the young Consul with matter of popular affection.
Domitius Corbulo, formerly Praetor, complained to the Senate of Lucius Sylla, a noble youth,
"that in the show of gladiators, Sylla would not yield him place." Age, domestic custom, and
the ancient men were for Corbulo: on the other side, Mamercus Scaurus, Lucius Arruntius, and
others laboured for their kinsman Sylla: warm speeches were made, and the examples of our ancestors
were urged, "who by severe decrees had censured and restrained the irreverence of the youth."
Drusus interposed with arguments proper for calming animosities, and Corbulo had satisfaction
made him by Scaurus, who was to Sylla both father-in-law and uncle, and the most copious orator
of that age. The same Corbulo, exclaiming against "the condition of most of the roads through
Italy, that through the fraud of the undertakers and negligence of the overseers, they were
broken and unpassable;" undertook of his own accord the cure of that abuse; an undertaking
which he executed not so much to the advantage of the public as to the ruin of many private
men in their fortunes and reputation, by his violent mulcts and unjust judgments and forfeitures.

Upon this occasion Caecina Severus proposed, "that no magistrate should go into any province
accompanied by his wife." He introduced this motion with a long preface, "that he lived with
his own in perfect concord, by her he had six children; and what he offered to the public he
had practised himself, having during forty years' service left her still behind him, confined
to Italy. It was not indeed, without cause, established of old, that women should neither be
carried by their husbands into confederate nations nor foreign. A train of women introduced
luxury in peace, by their fears retarded war, and made a Roman army resemble, in their march,
a mixed host of barbarians. The sex was not tender only and unfit for travel, but, if suffered,
cruel, aspiring, and greedy of authority: they even marched amongst the soldiers, and were
obeyed by the officers. A woman had lately presided at the exercises of the troops, and at
the decursions of the legions. The Senate themselves might remember, that as often as any of
the magistrates were charged with plundering the provinces, their wives were always engaged
in the guilt. To the ladies, the most profligate in the province applied; by them all affairs
were undertaken, by them transacted: at home two distinct courts were kept, and abroad the
wife had her distinct train and attendance. The ladies, too, issued distinct orders, but more
imperious and better obeyed. Such feminine excesses were formerly restrained by the Oppian,
and other laws; but now these restraints were violated, women ruled all things, their families,
the Forum, and even the armies."

This speech was heard by few with approbation, and many proclaimed their dissent; "for, that
neither was that the point in debate, nor was Caecina considerable enough to censure so weighty
an affair." He was presently answered by Valerius Messalinus, who was the son of Messala, and
inherited a sparkling of his father's eloquence: "that many rigorous institutions of the ancients
were softened and changed for the better: for, neither was Rome now, as of old, beset with
wars, nor Italy with hostile provinces; and a few concessions were made to the conveniences
of women, who were so far from burdening the provinces, that to their own husbands there they
were no burden. As to honours, attendance and expense, they enjoyed them in common with their
husbands, who could receive no embarrassment from their company in time of peace. To war indeed
we must go equipped and unencumbered; but after the fatigues of war, what was more allowable
than the consolations of a wife? But it seemed the wives of some magistrates had given a loose
to ambition and avarice. And were the magistrates themselves free from these excesses? were
not most of them governed by many exorbitant appetites? did we therefore send none into the
provinces? It was added, that the husbands were corrupted by their corrupt wives: and were
therefore all single men uncorrupt? The Oppian Laws were once thought necessary, because the
exigencies of the State required their severity: they were afterwards relaxed and mollified,
because that too was expedient for the State. In vain we covered our own sloth with borrowed
names: if the wife broke bounds, the husband ought to bear the blame. It was moreover unjustly
judged, for the weak and uxorious spirit of one or a few, to bereave all others of the fellowship
of their wives, the natural partners of their prosperity and distress. Besides, the sex, weak
by nature, would be left defenceless, exposed to the luxurious bent of their native passions,
and a prey to the allurements of adulterers: scarce under the eye and restraint of the husband
was the marriage bed preserved inviolate: what must be the consequence, when by an absence
of many years, the ties of marriage would be forgot, forgot as it were in a divorce? It became
them, therefore, so to cure the evils abroad as not to forget the enormities at Rome." To this
Drusus added somewhat concerning his own wedlock. "Princes," he said, "were frequently obliged
to visit the remote parts of the Empire: how often did the deified Augustus travel to the East,
how often to the West, still accompanied with Livia? He himself too had taken a progress to
Illyricum, and, if it were expedient, was ready to visit other nations; but not always with
an easy spirit, if he were to be torn from his dear wife, her by whom he had so many children."
Thus was Caecina's motion eluded.

When the Senate met next, they had a letter from Tiberius. In it he affected to chide the fathers,
"that upon him they cast all public cares;" and named them M. Lepidus and Junius Blesus, to
choose either for Proconsul of Africa. They were then both heard as to this nomination: Lepidus
excused himself with earnestness; he pleaded "his bodily frailty, the tender age of his children,
and a daughter fit for marriage." There was another reason too, of which he said nothing; but
it was easily understood: Blesus was uncle to Sejanus, and therefore had the prevailing interest.
Blesus too made a show of refusing, but not with the like positiveness, and was heard with
partiality by the flatterers of power.

The same year the cities of Gaul, stimulated by their excessive debts, began a rebellion. The
most vehement incendiaries were Julius Florus and Julius Sacrovir; the first amongst those
of Treves, the second amongst the Aeduans. They were both distinguished by their nobility,
and by the good services of their ancestors, who thence had acquired of old the right of Roman
citizens; a privilege rare in those days, and then only the prize of virtue. When by secret
meetings, they had gained those who were most prompt to rebel; with such as were desperate
through indigence, or, from guilt of past crimes, forced to commit more; they agreed that Florus
should begin the insurrection in Belgia; Sacrovir amongst the neighbouring Gauls. In order
to this, they had many consultations and cabals, where they uttered seditious harangues; they
urged "their tribute without end, their devouring usury, the pride and cruelty of their Governors:
that they had now a glorious opportunity to recover their liberty; for that since the report
of the murder of Germanicus, discord had seized the Roman soldiery: they need only consider
their own strength and numbers; while Italy was poor and exhausted; the Roman populace weak
and unwarlike, the Roman armies destitute of all vigour but that derived from foreigners."

Scarce one city remained untainted with the seeds of this rebellion; but it first broke at
Angiers and Tours. The former were reduced by Acilius Aviola, a legate, with the assistance
of a cohort drawn from the garrison at Lyons. Those of Tours were suppressed by the same Aviola,
assisted with a detachment sent from the legions, by Visellius Varro, lieutenant- governor
of lower Germany. Some of the chiefs of the Gauls had likewise joined him with succours, the
better to disguise their defection, and to push it with more effect hereafter. Even Sacrovir
was beheld engaged in fight for the Romans, with his head bare, a demonstration, he pretended,
of his bravery; but the prisoners averred, that "he did it to be known to his countrymen, and
to escape their darts."

An account of all this was laid before Tiberius, who slighted it, and by hesitation fostered
the war. Florus the while pushed his designs, and tried to debauch a regiment of horse, levied
at Treves, and kept under our pay and discipline: he would have engaged them to begin the war,
by putting to the sword the Roman merchants; and some few were corrupted, but the body remained
in their allegiance. A rabble however, of his own followers and desperate debtors, took arms
and were making to the forest of Arden, when the legions sent from both armies by Visellius
and Caius Silius, through different routes to intercept them, marred their march: and Julius
Indus, one of the same country with Florus, at enmity with him, and therefore more eager to
engage him, was despatched forward with a chosen band, and broke the ill-appointed multitude.
Florus by lurking from place to place, frustrated the search of the conquerors: but at last,
when he saw all the passes beset with soldiers, he fell by his own hands. This was the issue
of the insurrection at Treves.

Amongst the Aeduans the revolt was stronger, as much stronger as the state was more opulent;
and the forces to suppress it were to be brought from afar. Augustodunum, [Footnote: Autun.]
the capital of the nation, was seized by Sacrovir, and in it all the noble youth of Gaul, who
were there instructed in the liberal arts. By securing these pledges he aimed to bind in his
interest their parents and relations; and at the same time distributed to the young men the
arms, which he had caused to be secretly made. He had forty thousand men, the fifth part armed
like our legions, the rest with poles, hangers, and other weapons used by hunters. To the number
were added such of the slaves as had been appointed to be gladiators; these were covered, after
the fashion of the country, with a continued armour of iron; and styled Crupellarii; a sort
of militia unwieldy at exercising their own weapons, and impenetrable by those of others. These
forces were still increased by volunteers from the neighbouring cities, where, though the public
body did not hitherto avow the revolt, yet the zeal of particulars was manifest: they had likewise
leisure to increase from the contention of the two Roman generals; a contention for some time
undecided, while each demanded the command in that war. At length Varro, old and infirm, yielded
to the superior vigour of Silius.

Now at Rome, "not only the insurrection of Treves and of the Aeduans, but likewise, that threescore
and four cities of Gaul had revolted; that the Germans had joined in the revolt, and that Spain
fluctuated;" were reports all believed with the usual aggravations of fame. The best men grieved
in sympathy for their country: many from hatred of the present government and thirst of change,
rejoiced in their own perils: they inveighed against Tiberius, "that in such a mighty uproar
of rebellion, he was only employed in perusing the informations of the State accusers." They
asked, "did he mean to surrender Julius Sacrovir to the Senate, to try him for treason?" They
exulted, "that there were at last found men, who would with arms restrain his bloody orders
for private murders." And declared "that even war was a happy change for a most wretched peace."
So much the more for this, Tiberius affected to appear wrapped up in security and unconcern;
he neither changed place nor countenance, but behaved himself at that time as at other times;
whether from elevation of mind, or whether he had learned that the state of things was not
alarming, and only heightened by vulgar representation.

Silius the while sending forward a band of auxiliaries, marched with two legions, and in his
march ravaged the villages of the Sequanians, next neighbours to the Aeduans, and their associates
in arms. He then advanced towards Augustodunum; a hasty march, the standard-bearers mutually
vying in expedition, and the common men breathing ardour and eagerness: they desired, "that
no time might be wasted in the usual refreshments, none of their nights in sleep; let them
only see and confront the foe: they wanted no more, to be victorious." Twelve miles from Augustodunum,
Sacrovir appeared with his forces upon the plains: in the front he had placed the iron troop;
his cohorts in the wings; the half-armed in the rear: he himself, upon a fine horse, attended
by the other chiefs, addressed himself to them from rank to rank; he reminded them "of the
glorious achievements of the ancient Gauls; of the victorious mischiefs they had brought upon
the Romans; of the liberty and renown attending victory; of their redoubled and intolerable
servitude, if once more vanquished."

A short speech; and an unattentive, and disheartened audience! For, the embattled legions approached;
and the crowd of townsmen, ill appointed and novices in war, stood astonished, bereft of the
present use of eyes and hearing. On the other side, Silius, though he presumed the victory,
and thence might have spared exhortations, yet called to his men, "that they might be with
reason ashamed that they, the conquerors of Germany, should be thus led against a rabble of
Gauls as against an equal enemy: one cohort had newly defeated the rebels of Tours; one regiment
of horse, those of Treves; a handful of this very army had routed the Sequanians: the present
Aeduans, as they are more abounding in wealth, as they wallow more in voluptuousness, are by
so much more soft and unwarlike: this is what you are now to prove, and your task to prevent
their escape." His words were returned with a mighty cry. Instantly the horse surrounded the
foe; the foot attacked their front, and the wings were presently routed: the iron band gave
some short obstruction, as the bars of their coats withstood the strokes of sword and pike:
but the soldiers had recourse to their hatchets and pick-axes; and, as if they had battered
a wall, hewed their bodies and armour: others with clubs, and some with forks, beat down the
helpless lumps, who as they lay stretched along, without one struggle to rise, were left for
dead. Sacrovir fled first to Augustodunum; and thence, fearful of being surrendered, to a neighbouring
town, accompanied by his most faithful adherents. There he slew himself; and the rest, one
another: having first set the town on fire, by which they were all consumed.

Now at last Tiberius wrote to the Senate about this war, and at once acquainted them with its
rise and conclusion, neither aggravating facts nor lessening them; but added "that it was conducted
by the fidelity and bravery of his lieutenants, guided by his counsels." He likewise assigned
the reasons why neither he, nor Drusus, went to that war; "that the Empire was an immense body;
and it became not the dignity of a Prince, upon the revolt of one or two towns, to desert the
capital, whence motion was derived to the whole: but since the alarm was over, he would visit
those nations and settle them." The Senate decreed vows and supplications for his return, with
other customary honours. Only Cornelius Dolabella, while he strove to outdo others, fell into
ridiculous sycophancy, and moved "that from Campania he should enter Rome in the triumph of
ovation." This occasioned a letter from Tiberius: in it he declared, "he was not so destitute
of glory, that after having in his youth subdued the fiercest nations, and enjoyed or slighted
so many triumphs, he should now in his old age seek empty honours from a short progress about
the suburbs of Rome."

Caius Sulpitius and Decimus Haterius were the following Consuls. Their year was exempt from
disturbances abroad; but at home some severe blow was apprehended against luxury, which prevailed
monstrously in all things that create a profusion of money. But as the more pernicious articles
of expense were covered by concealing their prices; therefore from the excesses of the table,
which were become the common subject of daily animadversion, apprehensions were raised of some
rigid correction from a Prince, who observed himself the ancient parsimony. For, Caius Bibulus
having begun the complaint, the other Aediles took it up, and argued "that the sumptuary laws
were despised; the pomp and expense of plate and entertainments, in spite of restraints, increased
daily, and by moderate penalties were not to be stopped." This grievance thus represented to
the Senate, was by them referred entire to the Emperor. Tiberius having long weighed with himself
whether such an abandoned propensity to prodigality could be stemmed; whether the stemming
it would not bring heavier evils upon the public; how dishonourable it would be to attempt
what could not be effected, or at least effected by the disgrace of the nobility, and by the
subjecting illustrious men to infamous punishments; wrote at last to the Senate in this manner:

"In other matters, Conscript Fathers, perhaps it might be more expedient for you to consult
me in the Senate; and for me to declare there, what I judge for the public weal: but in the
debate of this affair, it was best that my eyes were withdrawn; lest, while you marked the
countenances and terror of particulars charged with scandalous luxury, I too should have observed
them, and, as it were, caught them in it. Had the vigilant Aediles first asked counsel of me,
I know not whether I should not have advised them rather to have passed by potent and inveterate
corruptions, than only make it manifest, what enormities are an overmatch for us: but they
in truth have done their duty, as I would have all other magistrates fulfil theirs. But for
myself, it is neither commendable to be silent; nor does it belong to my station to speak out;
since I neither bear the character of an Aedile, nor of a Praetor, nor of a Consul: something
still greater and higher is required of a Prince. Every one is ready to assume to himself the
credit of whatever is well done, while upon the Prince alone are thrown the miscarriages of
all. But what is it, that I am first to prohibit, what excess retrench to the ancient standard?
Am I to begin with that of our country seats, spacious without bounds; and with the number
of domestics, a number distributed into nations in private families? or with the quantity of
plate, silver, and gold? or with the pictures, and works, and statues of brass, the wonders
of art? or with the gorgeous vestments, promiscuously worn by men and women? or with what is
peculiar to the women, those precious stones, for the purchase of which our corn is carried
into foreign and hostile nations.

"I am not ignorant that at entertainments and in conversation, these excesses are censured,
and a regulation is required: and yet if an equal law were made, if equal penalties were prescribed,
these very censurers would loudly complain, that the State was utterly overturned, that snares
and destruction were prepared for every illustrious house, that no men could be guiltless,
and all men would be the prey of informers. And yet bodily diseases grown inveterate and strengthened
by time, cannot be checked but by medicines rigid and violent: it is the same with the soul:
the sick and raging soul, itself corrupted and scattering its corruption, is not to be qualified
but by remedies equally strong with its own flaming lusts. So many laws made by our ancestors,
so many added by the deified Augustus; the former being lost in oblivion, and (which is more
heinous) the latter in contempt, have only served to render luxury more secure. When we covet
a thing yet unforbid, we are apt to fear that it may be forbid; but when once we can with impunity
and defiance overleap prohibited bounds, there remains afterwards nor fear nor shame. How therefore
did parsimony prevail of old? It was because, every one was a law to himself; it was because
we were then only masters of one city: nor afterwards, while our dominion was confined only
to Italy, had we found the same instigations to voluptuousness. By foreign conquests, we learned
to waste the property of others; and in the Civil Wars, to consume our own. What a mighty matter
is it that the Aediles remonstrate! how little to be weighed in the balance with others? It
is wonderful that nobody represents, that Italy is in constant want of foreign supplies; that
the lives of the Roman People are daily at the mercy of uncertain seas and of tempests: were
it not for our supports from the provinces; supports, by which the masters, and their slaves,
and their estates, are maintained; would our own groves and villas maintain us? This care therefore,
Conscript Fathers, is the business of the Prince; and by the neglect of this care, the foundations
of the State would be dissolved. The cure of other defects depends upon our own private spirits:
some of us, shame will reclaim; necessity will mend the poor; satiety the rich. Or if any of
the Magistrates, from a confidence of his own firmness and perseverance, will undertake to
stem the progress of so great an evil; he has both my praises, and my acknowledgment, that
he discharges me of part of my fatigues: but if such will only impeach corruptions, and when
they have gained the glory, would leave upon me the indignation (indignation of their own raising);
believe me, Conscript Fathers, I am not fond of bearing resentments: I already suffer many
for the Commonwealth; many that are grievous and almost all unjust; and therefore with reason
I intreat that I may not be loaded with such as are wantonly and vainly raised, and promise
no advantage to you nor to me."

