After reading and hearing of the many glorious achievements which the Roman people had performed
at home and in the field, by sea as well as by land, I happened to be led to consider what
had been the great foundation of such illustrious deeds. I knew that the Romans had frequently,
with small bodies of men, encountered vast armies of the enemy; I was aware that they had carried
on wars[269] with limited forces against powerful sovereigns; that they had often sustained,
too, the violence of adverse fortune; yet that, while the Greeks excelled them in eloquence,
the Gauls surpassed them in military glory. After much reflection, I felt convinced that the
eminent virtue of a few citizens had been the cause of all these successes; and hence it had
happened that poverty had triumphed over riches, and a few over a multitude. And even in later
times, when the state had become corrupted by luxury and indolence, the republic still supported
itself, by its own strength, under the misconduct of its generals and magistrates; when, as
if the parent stock were exhausted,[270] there was certainly not produced at Rome, for many
years, a single citizen of eminent ability. Within my recollection, however, there arose two
men of remarkable powers, though of very different character, Marcus Cato and Caius Caesar,
whom, since the subject has brought them before me, it is not my intention to pass in silence,
but to describe, to the best of my ability, the disposition and manners of each.

LIV. Their birth, age, and eloquence, were nearly on an equality; their greatness of mind similar,
as was also their reputation, though attained by different means.[271] Caesar grew eminent
by generosity and munificence; Cato by the integrity of his life. Caesar was esteemed for his
humanity and benevolence; austereness had given dignity to Cato. Caesar acquired renown by
giving, relieving, and pardoning; Cato by bestowing nothing. In Caesar, there was a refuge
for the unfortunate; in Cato, destruction for the bad. In Caesar, his easiness of temper was
admired; in Cato, his firmness. Caesar, in fine, had applied himself to a life of energy and
activity; intent upon the interest of his friends, he was neglectful of his own; he refused
nothing to others that was worthy of acceptance, while for himself he desired great power,
the command of an army, and a new war in which his talents might be displayed. But Cato's ambition
was that of temperance, discretion, and, above all, of austerity; he did not contend in splendor
with the rich, or in faction with the seditious, but with the brave in fortitude, with the
modest in simplicity,[272] with the temperate[273] in abstinence; he was more desirous to be,
than to appear, virtuous; and thus, the less he courted popularity, the more it pursued him.

LV. When the senate, as I have stated, had gone over to the opinion of Cato, the counsel, thinking
it best not to wait till night, which was coming on, lest any new attempts should be made during
the interval, ordered the triumvirs[274] to make such preparations as the execution of the
conspirators required. He himself, having posted the necessary guards, conducted Lentulus to
the prison; and the same office was performed for the rest by the praetors. There is a place
in the prison, which is called the Tullian dungeon,[275] and which, after a slight ascent to
the left, is sunk about twelve feet under ground. Walls secure it on every side, and over it
is a vaulted roof connected with stone arches;[276] but its appearance is disgusting and horrible,
by reason of the filth, darkness, and stench. When Lentulus had been let down into this place,
certain men, to whom orders had been given,[277] strangled him with a cord. Thus this patrician,
who was of the illustrious family of the Cornelii, and who filled the office of consul at Rome,
met with an end suited to his character and conduct. On Cethegus, Statilius, Gabinius, and
Coeparius, punishment was inflicted in a similar manner.

LVI. During these proceedings at Rome, Catiline, out of the entire force which he himself had
brought with him, and that which Manlius had previously collected, formed two legions, filling
up the cohorts as far as his number would allow;[278] and afterward, as any volunteers, or
recruits from his confederates,[279] arrived in his camp, he distributed them equally throughout
the cohorts, and thus filled up his legions, in a short time, with their regular number of
men, though at first he had not more than two thousand. But, of his whole army, only about
a fourth part had the proper weapons of soldiers; the rest, as chance had equipped them, carried
darts, spears, or sharpened stakes.

As Antonius approached with his army, Catiline directed his march over the hills, encamping,
at one time, in the direction of Rome, at another in that of Gaul. He gave the enemy no opportunity
of fighting, yet hoped himself shortly to find one,[280] if his accomplices at Rome should
succeed in their objects. Slaves, meanwhile, of whom vast numbers [281] had at first flocked
to him, he continued to reject, not only as depending on the strength of the conspiracy, but
as thinking it impolitic [282] to appear to share the cause of citizens with runagates.

LVII. When it was reported in his camp, however, that the conspiracy had been discovered at
Rome, and that Lentulus, Cethegus, and the rest whom I have named, had been put to death, most
of those whom the hope of plunder, or the love of change, had led to join in the war, fell
away. The remainder Catiline conducted, over rugged mountains, and by forced marches, into
the neighborhood of Pistoria, with a view to escape covertly, by cross roads, into Gaul.

But Quintus Metellus Celer, with a force of three legions, had at that time, his station in
Picenum, who suspected that Catiline, from the difficulties of his position, would adopt precisely
the course which we have just described. When, therefore, he had learned his route from some
deserters, he immediately broke up his camp, and took his post at the very foot of the hills,
at the point where Catiline's descent would be, in his hurried march into Gaul[283]. Nor was
Antonius far distant, as he was pursuing, though with, a large army, yet through plainer ground,
and with fewer hinderances, the enemy in retreat.[284]

Catiline, when he saw that he was surrounded by mountains and by hostile forces, that his schemes
in the city had been unsuccessful, and that there was no hope either of escape or of succor,
thinking it best, in such circumstances, to try the fortune of a battle, resolved upon engaging,
as speedily as possible, with Antonius. Having, therefore, assembled his troops, he addressed
them in the following manner:

LVIII. "I am well aware, soldiers, that words can not inspire courage; and that a spiritless
army can not be rendered active,[285] or a timid army valiant, by the speech of its commander.
Whatever courage is in the heart of a man, whether from nature or from habit, so much will
be shown by him in the field; and on him whom neither glory nor danger can move, exhortation
is bestowed in vain; for the terror in his breast stops his ears.

I have called you together, however, to give you a few instructions, and to explain to you,
at the same time, my reasons for the course which I have adopted. You all know, soldiers, how
severe a penalty the inactivity and cowardice of Lentulus has brought upon himself and us;
and how, while waiting for reinforcements from the city, I was unable to march into Gaul.

In what situation our affairs now are, you all understand as well as myself. Two armies of
the enemy, one on the side of Rome, and the other on that of Gaul, oppose our progress; while
the want of corn, and of other necessaries, prevents us from remaining, however strongly we
may desire to remain, in our present position. Whithersoever we would go, we must open a passage
with our swords. I conjure you, therefore, to maintain a brave and resolute spirit; and to
remember, when you advance to battle, that on your own right hands depend[286] riches, honor,
and glory, with the enjoyment of your liberty and of your country. If we conquer, all will
be safe; we shall have provisions in abundance; and the colonies and corporate towns will open
their gates to us. But if we lose the victory through want of courage, these same places[287]
will turn against us; for neither place nor friend will protect him whom his arms have not
protected. Besides, soldiers, the same exigency does not press upon our adversaries, as presses
upon us; we fight for our country, for our liberty, for our life; they contend for what but
little concerns them,[288] the power of a small party. Attack them, therefore, with so much
the greater confidence, and call to mind your achievements of old.

We might,[289] with the utmost ignominy, have passed the rest of our days in exile. Some of
you, after losing your property, might have waited at Rome for assistance from others. But
because such a life, to men of spirit, was disgusting and unendurable, you resolved upon your
present course. If you wish to quit it, you must exert all your resolution, for none but conquerors
have exchanged war for peace. To hope for safety in flight, when you have turned away from
the enemy the arms by which the body is defended, is indeed madness. In battle, those who are
most afraid are always in most danger; but courage is equivalent to a rampart. When I contemplate
you, soldiers, and when I consider your past exploits, a strong hope of victory animates me.
Your spirit, your age, your valor, give me confidence; to say nothing of necessity, which makes
even cowards brave. To prevent the numbers of the enemy from surrounding us, our confined situation
is sufficient. But should Fortune be unjust to your valor, take care not to lose your lives
unavenged; take care not to be taken and butchered like cattle, rather than fighting like men,
to leave to your enemies a bloody and mournful victory."

LIX. When he had thus spoken, he ordered, after a short delay, the signal for battle to be
sounded, and led down his troops, in regular order, to the level ground. Having then sent away
the horses of all the cavalry, in order to increase the men's courage by making their danger
equal, he himself, on foot, drew up his troops suitably to their numbers and the nature of
the ground. As a plain stretched between the mountains on the left, with a rugged rock on the
right, he placed eight cohorts in front, and stationed the rest of his force, in close order,
in the rear.[290] From among these he removed all the ablest centurions,[291] the veterans,[293]
and the stoutest of the common soldiers that were regularly armed, into the foremost ranks.[293]
He ordered Caius Manlius to take the command on the right, and a certain officer of Faesulae[294]
on the left; while he himself, with his freedmen[295] and the colonists,[296] took his station
by the eagle,[297] which Caius Marius was said to have had in his army in the Cimbrian war.

On the other side, Caius Antonius, who, being lame,[298] was unable to be present in the engagement,
gave the command of the army to Marcus Petreius, his lieutenant-general. Petreius, ranged the
cohorts of veterans, which he had raised to meet the present insurrection,[299] in front, and
behind them the rest of his force in lines. Then, riding round among his troops, and addressing
his men by name, he encouraged them, and bade them remember that they were to fight against
unarmed marauders, in defense of their country, their children, their temples, and their homes.[300]
Being a military man, and having served with great reputation, for more than thirty years,
as tribune, praefect, lieutenant, or praetor, he knew most of the soldiers and their honorable
actions, and, by calling these to their remembrance, roused the spirits of the men.

LX. When he had made a complete survey, he gave the signal with the trumpet, and ordered the
cohorts to advance slowly. The army of the enemy followed his example; and when they approached
so near that the action could be commenced by the light-armed troops, both sides, with a loud
shout, rushed together in a furious charge.[301] They threw aside their missiles, and fought
only with their swords. The veterans, calling to mind their deeds of old, engaged fiercely
in the closest combat. The enemy made an obstinate resistance; and both sides contended with
the utmost fury. Catiline, during this time, was exerting himself with his light troops in
the front, sustaining such as were pressed, substituting fresh men for the wounded, attending
to every exigency, charging in person, wounding many an enemy, and performing at once the duties
of a valiant soldier and a skillful general.

When Petreius, contrary to his expectation, found Catiline attacking him with such impetuosity,
he led his praetorian cohort against the centre of the enemy, among whom, being thus thrown
into confusion, and offering but partial resistance,[302] he made great slaughter, and ordered,
at the same time, an assault on both flanks. Manlius and the Faesulan, sword in hand, were
among the first[303] that fell; and Catiline, when he saw his army routed, and himself left
with but few supporters, remembering his birth and former dignity, rushed into the thickest
of the enemy, where he was slain, fighting to the last.

LXI. When the battle was over, it was plainly seen what boldness, and what energy of spirit,
had prevailed throughout the army of Catiline; for, almost every where, every soldier, after
yielding up his breath, covered with his corpse the spot which he had occupied when alive.
A few, indeed, whom the praetorian cohort had dispersed, had fallen somewhat differently, but
all with wounds in front. Catiline himself was found, far in advance of his men, among the
dead bodies of the enemy; he was not quite breathless, and still expressed in his countenance
the fierceness of spirit which he had shown during his life. Of his whole army, neither in
the battle, nor in flight, was any free-born citizen made prisoner, for they had spared their
own lives no more than those of the enemy.

Nor did the army of the Roman people obtain a joyful or bloodless victory; for all their bravest
men were either killed in the battle, or left the field severely wounded.

Of many who went from the camp to view the ground, or plunder the slain, some, in turning over
the bodies of the enemy, discovered a friend, others an acquaintance, others a relative; some,
too, recognized their enemies. Thus, gladness and sorrow, grief and joy, were variously felt
throughout the whole army.

NOTES.

[1] I. Desire to excel other animals--Sese student praestare caeteris animalibus. The pronoun,
which is usually omitted, is, says Cortius, not without its force; for it is equivalent to
ut ipsi: student ut ipsi praestent. In support of his opinion he quotes, with other passages,
Plaut. Asinar. i. 3, 31: Vult placere sese amicae, i.e. vult ut ipse amicae placeat; and Coelius
Antipater apud Festum in "Topper," Ita uti sese quisque vobis studeat aemulari, i.e. studeat
ut ipse aemuletur. This explanation is approved by Bernouf. Cortius might have added Cat. 7:
sese quisque hostem ferire --properabat. "Student," Cortius interprets by "cupiunt."

[2] To the utmost of their power--Summa ope, with their utmost ability. "A Sallustian mode
of expression. Cicero would have said summa opera, summo studio, summa contentione. Ennius
has 'Summa nituntur opum vi.'" Colerus.

[3] In obscurity--Silentio. So as to have nothing said of them, either during their lives or
at their death. When Ovid says, Bene qui latuit, bene vixit, and Horace, Nec vixit male, qui
vivens moriensque fefellit, they merely signify that he has some comfort in life, who, in ignoble
obscurity, escapes trouble and censure. But men thus undistinguished are, in the estimation
of Sallust, little superior to the brute creation. "Optimus quisque," says Muretus, quoting
Cicero, "honoris et gloriae studio maxime ducitur;" the ablest men are most actuated by the
desire of honor and glory, and are more solicitous about the character which they will bear
among posterity.

[4] Like the beasts of the field--Veluti pecora. Many translators have rendered pecora "brutes"
or "beasts;" pecus, however, does not mean brutes in general, but answers to our English word
cattle.

[5] Groveling--Prona. I have adopted groveling from Mair's old translation.

Which Milton (Par. L. vii. 502) has paraphrased:

  "There wanted yet the master-work, the end
  Of all yet done; a creature, who not prone
  And 'brute as other creatures, but endued
  With sanctity of reason, might erect
  His stature, and upright with front serene
  Govern the rest, self-knowing, and from thence
  Magnanimous to correspond with heaven."
  "Nonne vides hominum ut celsos ad sidera vultus
  Sustulerit Deus, et sublimia fluxerit ora,
  Cum pecudes, voluerumque genus, formasque ferarum,
  Segnem atque obscoenam passim stravisset in alvum."

  "See'st thou not how the Deity has rais'd
  The countenance of man erect to heav'n,
  Gazing sublime, while prone to earth he bent
  Th' inferior tribes, reptiles, and pasturing herds,
  And beasts of prey, to appetite enslav'd"

"When Nature," says Cicero, de Legg. i. 9, "had made other animals abject, and consigned them
to the pastures, she made man alone upright, and raised him to the contemplation of heaven,
as of his birthplace and former abode;" a passage which Dryden seems to have had in his mind
when he translated the lines of Ovid cited above. Let us add Juvenal, xv, 146.

  "Sensum a coelesti demissum traximus arce,
  Cujus egent prona et terram spectantia."

  "To us is reason giv'n, of heav'nly birth,
  Denied to beasts, that prone regard the earth."

[6] All our power is situate in the mind and in the body--Sed omnis nostra vis in animo et
corpore sita. All our power is placed, or consists, in our mind and our body. The particle
sed, which is merely a connective, answering to the Greek de, and which would be useless in
an English translation, I have omitted.

[7] Of the mind we--employ the government--Animi imperio--utimur. "What the Deity is in the
universe, the mind is in man; what matter is to the universe, the body is to us; let the worse,
therefore, serve the better."--Sen. Epist. lxv. Dux et imperator vitae mortalium animus est,
the mind is the guide and ruler of the life of mortals. --Jug. c. 1. "An animal consists of
mind and body, of which the one is formed by nature to rule, and the other to obey."--Aristot.
Polit. i. 5. Muretus and Graswinckel will supply abundance of similar passages.

[8] Of the mind we rather employ the government; of the body, the service--Animi imperio, corporis
servitio, magis utimur. The word magis is not to be regarded as useless. "It signifies," says
Cortius, "that the mind rules, and the body obeys, in general, and with greater reason." At
certain times the body may seem to have the mastery, as when we are under the irresistible
influence of hunger or thirst.

[9] It appears to me, therefore, more reasonable, etc.--Quo mihi rectius videtur, etc. I have
rendered quo by therefore. "Quo," observes Cortius, "is propter quod, with the proper force
of the ablative case. So Jug. c. 84: Quo mihi acrius adnitendum est, etc; c. 2, Quo magis pravitas
eorum admiranda est. Some expositors would force us to believe that these ablatives are inseparably
connected with the comparative degree, as in quo minus, eo major, and similar expressions;
whereas common sense shows that they can not be so connected." Kritzius is one of those who
interprets in the way to which Cortius alludes, as if the drift of the passage were, Quanto
magis animus corpori praestat, tanto rectius ingenii opibus gloriam quaerere. But most of the
commentators and translators rightly follow Cortius. "Quo," says Pappaur, "is for quocirca."

[10] That of intellectual power is illustrious and immortal--Virtus clara aeternaque habetur.
The only one of our English translators who has given the right sense of virtus In this passage,
is Sir Henry Steuart, who was guided to it by the Abbe Thyvon and M. Beauzee. "It appears somewhat
singular," says Sir Henry, "that none of the numerous translators of Sallust, whether among
ourselves or among foreign nations--the Abbe Thyvon and M. Beauzee excepted--have thought of
giving to the word virtus, in this place, what so obviously is the meaning intended by the
historian; namely, 'genius, ability, distinguished talents.'" Indeed, the whole tenor of the
passage, as well as the scope of the context, leaves no room to doubt the fact. The main objects
of comparison, throughout the three first sections of this Proemium, or introductory discourse,
are not vice and virtue, but body and mind; a listless indolence, and a vigorous, honorable
activity. On this account it is pretty evident, that by virtus Sallust could never mean the
[Greek aretae], 'virtue or moral worth,' but that he had in his eye the well-known interpretation
of Varro, who considers it ut viri vis (De Ling. Lat. iv.), as denoting the useful energy which
ennobles a man, and should chiefly distinguish him among his fellow-creatures. In order to
be convinced of the justice of this rendering, we need only turn to another passage of our
author, in the second section of the Proemium to the Jugurthine War, where the same train of
thought is again pursued, although he gives it somewhat a different turn in the piece last
mentioned. The object, notwithstanding, of both these dissertations is to illustrate, in a
striking manner, the pre-eminence of the mind over extrinsic advantage, or bodily endowments,
and to show that it is by genius alone that we may aspire to a reputation which shall never
die. "Igitur praeclara facies, magnae divitiae, adhuc vis corporis, et alia hujusmondi omnia,
brevi dilabuntur: at ingenii egregia facinora, sicut anima, immortalia sunt".

[11] It is necessary to plan before beginning to act--Priusquam incipias, consulto--opus est.
Most translators have rendered consulto "deliberation," or something equivalent; but it is
planning or contrivance that is signified. Demosthenes, in his Oration de Pace, reproaches
the Athenians with acting without any settled plan: [Greek: Oi men gar alloi puntes anthropoi
pro ton pragmatonheiothasi chraesthai to Bouleuesthai, umeis oude meta ta pragmata.]

[12] To act with promptitude and vigor--Mature facto opus est. "Mature facto" seems to include
the notions both of promptitude and vigor, of force as well as speed; for what would be the
use of acting expeditiously, unless expedition be attended with power and effect?

[13] Each--Utrumque. The corporeal and mental faculties.

[14] The one requires the assistance of the other--Alterum alterius auxilio eget. "Eget," says
Cortius, "is the reading of all the MSS." Veget, which Havercamp and some others have adopted,
was the conjecture of Palmerius, on account of indigens occurring in the same sentence. But
eget agrees far better with consulto et--mature facto opus est, in the preceding sentence.

[15] II. Applied themselves in different ways--Diversi. "Modo et instituto diverso, diversa
sequentes." Cortius.

[16] At that period, however--Et jam tum. "Tunc temporis praecise, at that time precisely,
which is the force of the particle jam. as donatus shows. I have therefore written et jam separately.
Virg. Aen. vii. 737. Late jam tum ditione premebat Sarrastes populos." Cortius.

[17] Without covetousness--Sine cupiditate. "As in the famous golden age. See Tacit. Ann. iii.
28." Cortius. See also Ovid. Met. i. 80, seq. But "such times were never," as Cowper says.

[18] But after Cyrus in Asia, etc.--Postea vero quam in, Asia Cyrus, etc. Sallust writes as
if he had supposed that kings were more moderate before the time of Cyrus. But this can hardly
have been the case. "The Romans," says De Brosses, whose words I abridge, "though not learned
in antiquity, could not have been ignorant that there were great conquerors before Cyrus; as
Ninus and Sesostris. But as their reigns belonged rather to the fabulous ages, Sallust, in
entering upon a serious history, wished to confine himself to what was certain, and went no
further back than the records of Herodotus and Thucydides." Ninus, says Justin. i. 1, was the
first to change, through inordinate ambition, the veterem et quasi avitum gentibus morem, that
is, to break through the settled restraints of law and order. Gerlach agrees in opinion with
De Brosses.

[19] Proof and experience--Periculo atque negotiis. Gronovius rightly interprets periculo "experiundo,
experimentis," by experiment or trial. Cortius takes periculo atque negotiis for periculosis
negotiis, by hendyadys; but to this figure, as Kritzius remarks, we ought but sparingly to
have recourse. It is better, he adds, to take the words in their ordinary signification, understanding
by negotia "res graviores." Bernouf judiciously explains negotiis by "ipsa negotiorum tractatione,"
i. e. by the management of affairs, or by experience in affairs. Dureau Delamalle, the French
translator, has "l'experience et la pratique." Mair has "trial and experience." which, I believe,
faithfully expresses Sallust's meaning. Rose gives only "experience" for both words.

[20] And, indeed, if the intellectual ability, etc.--Quod si--animi virtus, etc. "Quod si"
can not here be rendered but if; it is rather equivalent to quapropter si, and might be expressed
by wherefore if, if therefore, if then, so that if.

[21] Intellectual ability--Animi virtus. See the remarks on virtus, above noted.

[22] Magistrates--Imperatorum. "Understand all who govern states, whether in war or in peace."
Bernouf. Sallust calls the consuls imperatores, c. 6.

[23] Governments shifted from hand to hand--aliud alio ferri. Evidently alluding to changes
in government.

[24] Less to the more deserving--Ad optimum quemque a minus bono. "From the less good to the best."

[25] Even in agriculture, etc.--Quae homines arant, navigant, aedificant, virtuti omnia parent.
Literally, what men plow, sail, etc. Sallust's meaning is, that agriculture, navigation, and
architecture, though they may seem to be effected by mere bodily exertion, are as much the
result of mental power as the highest of human pursuits.

[26] Like travelers in a strange country--Sicuti peregrinantes. "Vivere nesciunt; igitur in
vita quasi hospites sunt:" they know not how to use life, and are therefore, as it were, strangers
in it. Dietsch. "Peregrinantes, qui, qua transeunt, nullum sui vestigium relinquunt;" they
are as travelers who do nothing to leave any trace of their course. Pappaur.

[27] Of these I hold the life and death in equal estimation--Eorum ego vitam mortemque juxta
aestimo. I count them of the same value dead as alive, for they are honored in the one state
as much as in the other. "Those who are devoted to the gratification of their appetites," as
Sallust says, "let us regard as inferior animals, not as men; and some, indeed, not as living,
but as dead animals." Seneca, Ep. lx.

[28] III. Not without merit--Haud absurdum. I have borrowed this expression from Rose, to whom
Muretus furnished "sua laude non caret." "The word absurdus is often used by the Latins as
an epithet for sounds disagreeable to the ear; but at length it came to be applied to any action
unbecoming a rational being." Kunhardt.

[29] Deeds must be adequately represented, etc.--Facta dictis sunt exaequanda. Most translators
have regarded these words as signifying that the subject must be equaled by the style. But
it is not of mere style that Sallust is speaking. "He means that the matter must be so represented
by the words, that honorable actions may not be too much praised, and that dishonorable actions
may not be too much blamed; and that the reader may at once understand what was done and how
it was done." Kunhardt.

[30] Every one hears with acquiescence, etc.--Quae sibi--aequo animo accipit, etc. This is
taken from Thucydides, ii. 35. "For praises spoken of others are only endured so far as each
one thinks that he is himself also capable of doing any of the things he hears; but that which
exceeds their own capacity, men at once envy and disbelieve." Dale's Translation: Bohn's Classical
Library.

[31] Regards as fictitious and incredible--Veluti ficta, pro falsis ducit. Ducit pro falsis,
he considers as false or incredible, veluti ficta, as if invented.

[32] When a young man--Adolescentulus. "It is generally admitted that all were called adolescentes
by the Romans, who were between the fifteenth or seventeenth year of their age and the fortieth.
The diminutive is used in the same sense, but with a view to contrast more strongly the ardor
and spirit of youth with the moderation, prudence, and experience of age. So Caesar is called
adolescentulus, in c. 49, at a time when he was in his thirty-third year." Dietsch. And Cicero,
referring to the time of his consulship, says, Defendi rempublicam adolescens, Philipp. ii. 46.

[33] To engage in political affairs--Ad rempublicam. "In the phrase of Cornelius Nepos, honoribus
operam dedi, I sought to obtain some share in the management of the Republic. All public matters
were comprehended under the term Respublica." Cortius.

[34] Integrity--Virtute. Cortius rightly explains this word as meaningjustice, equity, and
all other virtues necessary in those who manage the affairs of a state. Observe that it is
here opposed to avaritia, not, as some critics would have it, to largitio.

[35] Was ensnared and infected--Corrupta, tenebatur. As obsessus tenetur, Jug., c. 24.

[36] The same eagerness for honors, the same obloquy and jealousy, etc.--Honoris cupido eadem
quae caeteros, fama atque invidia vexabat. I follow the interpretation of Cortius: "Me vexabat
honoris cupido, et vexabat propterea etiam eadem, quae caeteros, fama atqua invidia." He adds,
from a gloss in the Guelferbytan MS., that it is a zeugma. "Fama atque invidia," says Gronovius,
"is [Greek: en dia duoin], for invidiosa et maligna fama." Bernouf, with Zanchius and others,
read fama atque invidia in the ablative case; and the Bipont edition has eadem qua--fama, etc.;
but the method of Cortius is, to me, by far the most straightforward and satisfactory. Sallust,
observes De Brosses, in his note on this passage, wrote the account of Catiline's conspiracy
shortly after his expulsion from the Senate, and wishes to make it appear that he suffered
from calumny on the occasion; though he took no trouble, in the subsequent part of his life,
to put such calumny to silence.

[37] IV. Servile occupations--agriculture or hunting--Agrum colendo, aut venando, servilibus
officiis intentum. By calling agriculture and hunting servilia officia, Sallust intends, as
is remarked by Graswinckelius, little more than was expressed in the saying of Julian the emperor,
Turpe est sapienti, cum habeat animum, captare laudes ex corpore. "Ita ergo," adds the commentator,
"agricultura et venatio servilio officia sunt, quum in solo consistant corporis usu, animum,
vero nec meliorem nec prudentiorem reddant. Quia labor in se certe est illiberalis, ei praesertim
cui facultas sit ad meliora." Symmachus (1 v. Ep. 66) and some others, whose remarks the reader
may see in Havercamp, think that Sallust might have spoken of hunting and agriculture with
more respect, and accuse him of not remembering, with sufficient veneration, the kings and
princes that have amused themselves in hunting, and such illustrious plowmen as Curius and
Cincinnatus. Sallust, however, is sufficiently defended from censure by the Abbe Thyvon, in
a dissertation much longer than the subject deserves, and much longer than most readers are
willing to peruse.

[38] Returning to those studies, etc.--A quo incepto studio me ambitio mala detinuerat, eodem
regressus. "The study, namely, of writing history, to which he signifies that he was attached
in c. 3." Cortius.

[39] In detached portions--Carptim. "Plin. Ep. viii., 47: Respondebis non posse perinde carptim,
ut contexta placere: et vi. 22: Egit carptim et [Greek: kata kephulaia]," Dietsch.

[40] V. Of noble birth--Nobili genere natus. His three names were Lucius Sergius Catilina,
he being of the family of the Sergii, for whose antiquity Virgil is responsible, Aen. v. 121:
Sergestusque, domus tenet a quo Sergia nomen. And Juvenal says, Sat. viii. 321: Quid, Catilino,
tuis natalibus atque Cethegi Inveniet quisquam sublimius? His great grandfather, L. Sergius
Silus, had eminently distinguished himself by his services in the second Punic war. See Plin.
Hist. Nat. vii. 29. "Catiline was born A.U.C. 647, A.C. 107." Dietsch. Ammianus Marcellinus
(lib. xxv.) says that he was the last of the Sergii.

[41] Sedition--Discordia civilis.

[42] And in such scenes he had spent his early years--Ibique juventutem suam exercuit. "It
is to be observed that the Roman writers often used an adverb, where we, of modern times, should
express ourselves more specifically by using a noun." Dietsch on c. 3, ibique multa mihi advorsa
fuere. Juventus properly signified the time between thirty and forty-five years of age; adolescentia
that between fifteen and thirty. But this distinction was not always accurately observed. Catiline
had taken an active part in supporting Sylla, and in carrying into execution his cruel proscriptions
and mandates. "Quis erat hujus (Syllae) imperii minister? Quis nisi Catilina jam in omne facinus
manus exercens?" Sen. de Ira, iii. 18.

[43] Capable of pretending or dissembling whatever he wished --Cujuslibet, rei simulator ac
dissimulator. Bacon, Essay vi.

[44] Abundance of eloquence--Satis eloquentiae. Cortius reads loquentiae "Loquentia is a certain
facility of speech not necessarily attended with sound sense; called by the Greeks [Greek:
lalia]." Bernouf. "Julius Candidus used excellently to observe that eloquentia was one thing,
and loquentia another; for eloquence is given to few, but what Candidus called loquentia, or
fluency of speech, is the talent of many, and especially of the most impudent." Plin. Ep. v.
20. But eloquentiae is the reading of most of the MSS., and loquentiae, if Aulus Gellius (i.
15) was rightly informed, was a correction of Valerius Probus, the grammarian, who said that
Sallust must have written so, as eloquentiae could not agree with sapientiae parum. May not
Sallust have written eloquentiae, with the intention of signifying that Catiline had abundance
of eloquence to work on the minds of others, though he wanted prudence to regulate his own
conduct? Have there not been other men of whom the same may be said, as Mirabeau, for example?
The speeches that Sallust puts into Catiline's mouth (c. 20, 58) are surely to be characterized
rather as eloquentia, than loquentia. On the whole, and especially from the concurrence of
MSS., I prefer to read eloquentiae, with the more recent editors, Gerlach, Kritz and Dietsch.

[45] Since the time of Sylla's dictatorship--Post dominationem Lucii Syllae. "The meaning is
not the same as if it were finita dominatione but is the same as ab eo tempore quo dominari
caeperat. In French, therefore, post should be rendered by depuis, not, as it is commonly translated,
apres." Bernouf. As dictator was the title that Sylla assumed, I have translated dominatio,
"dictatorship". Rose, Gordon, and others, render it "usurpation".

[46] Power--Regnum. Chief authority, rule, dominion.

[47] Rendered thoroughly depraved--Vexabant. "Corrumpere et pessundare studebant." Bernouf.
Quos vexabant, be it observed, refers to mores, as Gerlach and Kritz interpret, not to cives
understood in civitatis, which is the evidently erroneous method of Cortius.

[48] Conduct of our ancestors--Instituta majorum. The principles adopted by our ancestors,
with regard both to their own conduct, and to the management of the state. That this is the
meaning, is evident from the following account.

[49] VI. As I understand--Sicuti ego accepi. "By these words he plainly shows that nothing
certain was known about the origin of Rome. The reader may consult Livy, lib. i.; Justin, lib.
xliii.; and Dionys. Halicar., lib.i.; all of whom attribute its rise to the Trojans." Bernouf.

[50] Aborigines--Aborigines. The original inhabitants of Italy; the same as indigenae, or the
[Greek: Autochthones].

[51]: Almost incredible--Incredibile memoratu. "Non credi potest, si memoratur; superat omnem
fidem." Pappaur. Yet that which actually happened, can not be absolutely incredible; and I
have, therefore, inserted almost.

[52] Prepared with alacrity for there defense--Festinare, parare. "Made haste, prepared." "Intenti
ut festinanter pararent ea, quae defensioni aut bello usui essent." Pappaur.

[53] Procured friendships rather by bestowing, etc;--Magisque dandis, quam accipiundis beneficiis
amicitias parabant. Thucyd. ii., 40: [Greek: Ou paschontes eu, alla drontes, ktometha tous philous]

[54] FATHERS--PATRES. "(Romulus) appointed that the direction of the state should be in the
hands of the old men, who, from their authority, were called Fathers; from their age, Senatus."
Florus, i. 1. Senatus from senex. "Patres ab honore--appellati." Livy.

[55] Two magistrates--Binos imperatores. The two consuls. They were more properly called imperatores
at first, when the law, which settled their power, said "Regio imperio duo sunto" (Cic. de
Legg. iii. 4), than afterward, when the people and tribunes had made encroachments on their
authority.

[56] VII. Almost incredible--Incredibile memoratu. See above, c. 6.

[57] Able to bear the toils of war--Laboris ac belli patiens. As by laboris the labor of war
is evidently intended, I have thought it better to render the words in this manner. The reading
is Cortius'. Havercamp and others have "simul ac belli patiens erat, in castris per laborem
usu militiam discebat;" but per laborem usu is assuredly not the hand of Sallust.

[58] Honor and true nobility--Bonam famam magnamque nobilitatem.

[59] VIII. Very great and glorious--Satis amplae magnificaeque. In speaking of this amplification
of the Athenian exploits, he alludes, as Colerus observes, to the histories of Thucydides,
Xenophen, and perhaps Herodotus; not, as Wasse seems to imagine, to the representations of
the poets.

[60] There was never any such abundance of writers--Nunquam ea copia fuit. I follow Kuhnhardt,
who thinks copia equivalent to multitudo. Others render it advantage, or something similar;
which seems less applicable to the passage. Compare c.28: Latrones--quorum--magna copia erat.

