The Government of the Philippine Islands

                    Department of Public Instruction

                          Bureau of Education

                  Philippine Craftsman Reprint Series

                                 No. 1

                            Philippine Mats

                                 Manila

                           Bureau of Printing

                                  1913

FOREWORD.

The present bulletin is a reprint from The Philippine Craftsman, Vol. I, Nos. 3, 4, and 5,
and is issued in this form for the purpose of placing in the hands of teachers a convenient
manual for use in giving instruction in this important branch of industrial work. In it are
contained directions for the preparation of materials for mat making, with suggestive color
schemes for these materials and details for weaving a number of approved Philippine designs.

The use of mats for sleeping and other household purposes is universal through the extreme
Orient. Suitable mat materials abound in these Islands, and when proper attention shall have
been given to the artistic and decorative side of their manufacture, the mat industry may well
become a source of considerable revenue in thousands of Filipino homes.

The Bureau of Education has for some years past been endeavoring to improve the designs used
as well as the workmanship of Philippine mats, in order that the article produced shall be
typical of the country, artistic in design, and of real commercial value. It is expected that
this end will be definitely furthered through the study and use of the material contained in
this reprint.

A considerable part of the subject matter of this publication is the original work of Mr. Hugo
H. Miller, Mr. John F. Minier, Mr. U. S. Andes, Mr. Theodore Muller, and Mrs. Alice Brezina.
Credit is also due to numerous American and Filipino teachers for the submission of reports
and materials used in its preparation.

Frank L. Crone,

Acting Director.

Manila, February 1, 1913.

PHILIPPINE MATS.

The production of mats in the Philippines is large because of the extensive domestic demand
for them. The sleeping mat [1] is used throughout the Christian provinces, and is also found
among the Moros. Such mats are of the finer class and are usually more or less highly decorated
with colored straws in various designs. For this purpose the buri petates are more widely produced
than those made from any other material. Pandan mats are considered stronger and cooler but
their use is not so extensive, probably because they are more expensive than the buri mats.
In the Visayas, tikug mats are important.

Another use of mats is in the baling of two of the staple products of the Philippines, tobacco
and abaca. In the Cagayan valley mats of dried banana petioles are employed. A great many of
these are made in Batac, Ilocos Norte, from which place they are shipped to Cagayan. In most
cases the tobacco of the Visayas is packed in such mats also. At Argao, Cebu, banana petiole
mats are woven as a by-product of the sabá cloth industry. In obtaining the fiber, the outer
skin of the petiole is pulled off for stripping, and the remaining portion, which is called
"upag," is dried and woven into very coarse mats by children. These are called "bastos" [2]
or "liplip," and are disposed of to the tobacco balers in the town, or are shipped to Cebu
and other towns for baling purposes. While sabá sinamay is produced in several of the districts
in the Visayas, notably in Bohol, it is not known that the upag is used for mat weaving there.

Coarse buri mats are almost exclusively used in wrapping abaca for the export trade. Since
baling is carried on only in large seaports, particularly in Manila and Cebu, the weaving of
these mats in certain localities where the buri palm is abundant and their transportation to
the hemp-producing towns are important industries.

While they are not, strictly speaking, mats, plaited sacks [3] are woven in the same weave
and bear the same relation to sugar and rice as do mats to tobacco and abaca. Most of the domestic
rice crop entering into commerce is packed in buri sacks and practically all the export sugar
is sent away in them. A few bayones are made of pandan. The production of bayones is an important
industry in certain districts.

Mats are also employed throughout the provinces for drying paddy and copra in the sun, in the
same manner in which trays are used for sun-curing fruit in temperate regions.

The use of the finer grades of petates for floor mats and for wall decoration is confined to
the foreign population in the Philippines. Nevertheless, a considerable number is so utilized.
For this trade only mats of the better grades are demanded, and the number sold for the purpose
is probably considerably restricted by the fact that few mats are of suitable color combination
and of proper design to satisfy foreign taste. As yet there is no known commercial export of
Philippine mats. There is a considerable demand for floor mats and mats for wall decoration
in Europe and in the United States, but it is improbable that the Philippines can hope to supply
any part of it unless designs and color combinations are vastly improved. Floor mats are used
as rugs in the same manner as are the strips of Japanese matting which are so popular all over
the world. Round floor mats, somewhat larger in diameter than the round table tops, are also
in demand. Small mats can be used as doilies on the table or under the stands of flower pots
and the like.

Sleeping mats and mats intended for floors, walls, stands, and mat doilies are the ones which
are suitable for domestic and foreign commerce, and industrial education must interest itself
in them. The Philippine materials available for weaving these mats are varied and well distributed.
With improvement in color combination and design, there should be a large increase in the industry.

BLEACHING AGENTS.

Sunshine is used to bleach all mat straws, but more often they are also treated with boiling
water to which certain bleaching agents have been added. Only the most important of these are
explained.

Tamarind.--This tree (Tamarindus indica) is known in Tagalog, Bicol and Pampanga as sampalok,
in Visayan as sambag, in Ilocano as salamagui, and in Palawan as kalampisao. It is a large
tree with dense foliage. The leaves are employed as a bleaching agent in boiling water. It
is said that the young green fruit can be used for this purpose.

Pandakaki.--The leaves of the plant (Tabernaemontana pandacaqui) are used as a bleaching agent.
This is the name under which it is known, particularly in Pampanga and Cavite. In Palawan it
is called alibetbet. It is also known as kampopot in Tagalog and as alibubut and toar in parts
of the Visayas. In Ilocano the name is kurribuetbuet.

Lemons.--The juice of the various species and varieties of Citrus is employed to some extent
for bleaching. It is usually added to boiling water in which the straw is immersed.

Vinegar.--Of Philippine vinegars, those made from palm juices are considered about half as
strong as lemon juice. Vinegar from sugar cane juice has probably the same strength. That made
from cooked rice is considered about one-fourth as strong as lemon juice.

Alum.--In some towns alum is added to the boiling water in which straw is treated. It is usually
employed in combination with other bleaching agents.

DYES USED ON MAT STRAWS.

Mordants.

A mordant is a substance employed to fix the dye to the material. In general, different ones
are needed for different dyes and various materials. In some cases the mordant is added to
the dye liquid; in others the material is previously treated with it before being colored.
The most important are the mineral mordants, such as the alumina, the iron, the tin, and the
chrome. These are not used in the Philippines with local vegetable dyes. Tannin is also important
and is employed to some extent in the Philippines, being generally obtained from the mangrove
tan barks. Wood ashes are little used but vinegar and lemon juice are important.

Kolis.--The leaves of this plant (Memecylon edule) are commonly used in mordanting buri straw
before dyeing it with sappan wood. In Tanay, Rizal, it is employed on sabutan straw with all
of the vegetable dyes. It is known as guisian (Laguna), duigim (Ilocos, Pangasinan), kulis
(Rizal, Nueva Ecija, Bataan), tagobachi (Leyte), kasigay (Ilocos Norte), agam (Negrito, Cagayan),
guisoc-guisoc (Sorsogon), macaasin (Tayabas), baian (Zambales), diyatdiyatan (Tayabas), candong
(Pangasinan), dioc (Pangasinan).

Natural Vegetable Dyes.

Numerous natural vegetable dyes are employed in the Philippines. Those used on the mat straws
are limited in number. The important ones only are here noted. The whole question of dyes is
a most difficult one and hardly warrants the time which has been spent upon investigating the
various dye materials, nor the effort which would be necessary to determine definitely the
methods by which they can be used on mat straws. The artificial dyes have driven the natural
vegetable dyes out of use because they are cheaper and are more easily applied, and because
in most cases they produce more pleasing and lasting colors.

Sappan.--This plant (Caesalpinia sappan) is known as sapang in Tagalog and Ilocano and as sibucao
in Visayan and Bicol. A beautiful dye varying from red to red-orange (see Plate III) is obtained
from chips of the wood. This is employed on most Philippine fibers. Lime is sometimes used
as a mordant but the straws are usually first treated with kolis leaves.

Turmeric.--This plant (Curcuma longa) is known as dilao throughout the Islands. In Ilocano
it is called kunig. Kalaoag is its name in Negros and Sorsogon, ange in Pampanga and duao in
parts of the Visayas. The yellow dye obtained from the roots is fugitive in the sunlight.

Annatto.--This plant (Bixa orellana) is generally known here as achuete. It is sometimes called
achiote. The plant bears burs containing many small reddish seeds, from the pulp of which the
dye is obtained. It is often employed in combination with turmeric. The result is a yellow
orange. The dye fades easily.

Deora.--The use of this plant (Peristrophe tinctoria) is confined to the Visayas and Mindanao,
where it is known by this name and also as dauda and daura. In Samar the name is dala-uda.
It is a small bush and is usually grown in the gardens for its leaves and tender stems. A mordant
is not used. The color ranges from yellow orange to a deep red orange.

The methods of using these dye materials are explained for each straw.

Materials Used with Mud to Obtain Dark Grays.

Red or green straws are turned dark gray by burying them in mud to which certain substances
(usually containing tannin) are added.

Talisay.--This large tree (Terminalia catappa) is common in the Philippines. The leaves are
added to the mud in dyeing straw black. From the bark a brown dye may be obtained. It is, however,
seldom used. It is universally known as talisay. Spanish speaking people call it almendras.

Indigo.--Two species of Indigoferae are grown in the Philippines and are known as tagum. Except
with mud they are not used to dye straws.

Tiagkot.--The leaves of this plant (Pithecolobium subacutum) are employed on Romblon Island
in dyeing buri gray. Other names are tagayong, narandauel, saplit (Cagayan); carisquis, ayamguitan
(Zambales); tugurare (Pangasinan); inep (Bulacan); malasaga, malaganip, tekin (Laguna); bahay
(Sorsogon); tagomtagom (Samar); tique (Rizal).

Kabling.--This plant (Pogostemon cablin) is generally cultivated, though it grows where its
cultivation has been abandoned. A volatile oil, used to keep away insects from textiles, is
obtained from the leaves. The leaves are used in Tanay, Rizal, in obtaining gray sabutan straw.

Mabolo.--The heart wood of this tree (Diospyros discolor) is known as kamagon. The leaves are
employed in Tanay, Rizal.

Castor.--This plant (Ricinus communis) is seldom cultivated in the Philippines but is found
wild in all localities. The "beans" yield the oil. The leaves are added to mud in obtaining
gray sabutan straw.

Artificial Dyes.

It is commonly believed that artificial dyes are less permanent than natural ones. This is
seldom the case; as a matter of fact, some of the fastest and most valuable dyes are now made
artificially and many are not procurable from vegetable coloring matters. Most of the cheaper
dyes made from coal tar are fugitive; that is, they fade in sunlight or water or in both. They
are often still further cheapened by being adulterated with salt, dextrine and the like. Such
are the colors which are usually sold by the Chinese tienda keepers and which have caused artificial
dyes in general to come into such ill-repute in the Philippines. Many of these "Chino dyes"
contain 95 per cent salt. It is the belief, however, that artificial dyes of a good class,
so packed and marketed that they will come cheaply to the hands of the dyers and weavers, will
drive out of use practically all of the vegetable dyes now employed in the Philippines. The
disuse of the natural dyes would not be regretted here, for, with the possible exception of
those obtained from sabutan straw in Tanay, much finer colors can be produced with artificial
dyes, as to both beauty and fastness. If the time of the workers is considered, the vegetable
dyes now employed in the Philippines are more expensive than the artificial dyes, even though
the latter are now sold in wastefully small packages and bear the burden of several large profits
before they come to the hands of the persons using them. [4]

DYEING.

The process of dyeing is simple. The fluid is prepared in water (usually boiling), and the
material is immersed in it. The shade of color obtained depends on the length of time the material
is allowed to remain in the fluid or the number of times it is treated, and the strength of
the dye. The combination of two different dyes to obtain a third is understood to some extent.
In particular, red and yellow are mixed to obtain orange.

SUGGESTIONS ON THE USE OF COLORS IN MATS. Orange is made by a combination of yellow and red,
green is a combination of blue and yellow, and violet is the combination of red and blue. Most
of the dye materials explained in the preceding pages do not produce standard colors and so,
when combined, do not result in the expected secondary color. Often those called red are, in
point of fact, red-violet (see Plate III). Sometimes, also, dyes called yellow are yellow-orange.
A mixture of yellow-orange and red-violet would produce a muddy color. Dye called green may
be really blue-green or yellow-green, and combined with red, will make a muddy color.

The above remarks on standard complementary colors are only valid for pure colors and it is
only by much experimentation that pleasing tones can be obtained by a combination of the dyes
used on straws in the Philippines.

How to Tone Down Brilliant Colors.

Many of the colors used in Philippine mats are very brilliant. A little brilliantly colored
straw, properly combined with subdued colors such as gray or one of the natural colors of Philippine
straws, is pleasing, but the abundant use of brilliant straws, such as are sometimes seen in
mats of solid color, is to be discouraged.

All brilliant colors may be subdued by adding to them their complementary color. Thus a brilliant
red may be subdued by adding to it a small amount of green and in the same way brilliant green
may be toned down by mixing with it a small portion of red. If too much of the complementary
color is added the result will be gray. As will be seen, all complementary colors will subdue
one another. In Plate III the principal colors have been so arranged that the complementary
colors are directly opposite each other and are connected by lines. Any two colors connected
by lines on this chart will tone down each other and, if mixed in proper proportions, will
result in gray.

It is probable that any straw which has been dyed too brilliant, can be closely matched to
one of the colors given on Plate III. Consequently its complement can be determined and, by
experimentation, the brilliant color toned down. Usually only an exceedingly small amount of
its complement is needed to tone down a given color.

Color Combination.

In general, too many different colors appear in the Philippine mats, and most of these are
brilliant. It is often true that a large amount of a given brilliant color is offensive to
the eye, and yet the addition of a little of it greatly enhances the beauty of the mat. Often
color combinations are not harmonious. Particularly bad effects are obtained with red-violet
and yellow or yellow-orange. Red-violet with blue-green is another unfortunate combination.

Certain rules have been set down for combination of colors: (1) A given color with its tints
and shades [5] may always be safely combined; (2) complementary colors may always be safely
combined; (3) the tints and shades of complementary colors may always be safely combined; (4)
any three colors occurring in sequence on the color chart may be combined in that sequence.

The following notes on the use and combination of the colored straws from Tanay, Rizal, and
from Romblon, and those shown on the charts accompanying the dyes of Leopold Cassela & Co.,
are given. The figures refer to the numbers given the colored straws on these charts. These
dyes were evolved for the Bureau of Education especially for Philippine mat straws and will
soon be available in the market. The notes have been prepared in accordance with the rules
above outlined, and, if they are followed closely, no unfortunate color combination can result.

Colors Obtained from the New Dyes.

The sample straws on these charts are made with the following dyestuffs:

    Colors.                    Numbers   Dyestuffs.
                               on chart.

    Yellow Yellow-Orange       No. 1     Paraphosphine G.
    Violet                     No. 2     Methylviolett BB 72 No. 1.
    Brown                      No. 3     Rush Brown B.
    Orange Red-Red             No. 4     Rush Red S A.
    Yellow-Green               No. 5     Rush Green T B.
    Blue-Violet                No. 6     New Methylene Blue R.
    Red-Violet                 No. 7     Magenta Prima.
    Black                      No. 8     Rush Black M.
    Chocolate                  No. 9     Rush Brown X.
    Red                        No. 10    Rush Red J S.
    Yellow Orange-Yellow       No. 11    Auramine II.
    Blue-Green                 No. 12    Japan Green.
    Red Violet-Violet          No. 13    Methylviolett R No. 1.
    Red-Orange                 No. 14    Chrysoidine A G.
    Blue Blue-Green            No. 15    New Methylene Blue N.
    Violet Red-Red             No. 16    Safranine S 150.

