THE

TESTIMONY OF THE BIBLE

CONCERNING THE

Assumptions of Destructive Criticism

BY

S.E. WISHARD, D.D.

LOS ANGELES, CAL.

JOHNSON & HANEY

BIBLE INSTITUTE PRESS

1909

Copyright, 1909

By S.E. WISHARD, D.D.

Presentation Copy

       *       *       *       *       *

"In the defence and confirmation of the truth"

--Phil 1:7

BIBLE INSTITUTE

Los Angeles, Calif.

FOREWORD.

  This booklet is sent out
  To all Sabbath-school teachers,
  To the young people of the Christian churches,
  And to all believers in the living Word.

       *       *       *       *       *

The work of the destructive critics has been widely disseminated in current literature. Magazines,
secular newspapers, and some religious papers are giving currency to these critical attacks
on the Word of God. The young people of our churches are exposed to the insidious poison of
this skepticism. It comes to them under the guise of a broader and more liberal scholarship.
They have neither the time nor the equipment to enter the field of criticism, nor is this work
demanded of them.

While abler pens are meeting and answering the questions raised by destructive critics, something
may be said that will clear away the fog produced by them and enable young Christians to come
directly to the truth.

Hence this booklet is an attempt to "give God a chance" to have his say.

There has been no attempt to cover the whole ground of destructive criticism in the brief compass
of this booklet. It will be enough to permit God to answer; hence, in the following pages he
speaks for himself. We are content that his voice shall be heard.

S.E. WISHARD.

CONTENTS

                                                     PAGE

   I. OUR ATTITUDE TOWARD DESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM        9

  II. SHOULD REPLY BE MADE?                           17

 III. WAS MOSES A LITERARY FICTION?                   25

  IV. WERE CHRIST AND THE APOSTLES MISTAKEN?          39

   V. THE ATTACK ON THE BOOK OF LEVITICUS             59

  VI. ASSUMPTIONS CONCERNING THE BOOK OF ISAIAH       73

 VII. GOD'S REPLY TO THESE ASSUMPTIONS.               87

VIII. THE HISTORICITY OF THE BOOK OF JONAH           101

  IX. RADICAL EXPOSITION                             111

   X. GOD HIS OWN INTERPRETER                        119

I. OUR ATTITUDE TOWARD DESTRUCTIVE CRITICISM. Eph. v. 1, 2.

"He that believeth shall not make haste." Isa. xxviii. 16.

"The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure. They stand
fast forever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness." Psa. cxi. 7, 8.

"My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure." Isa, xlvi. 10.

The attitude which God's people should assume toward destructive criticism has been questioned.
It should certainly be a position of calm patience, that can deliberately weigh valid testimony,
and abide by the decision of intelligent judgment. The history and life of the Church for nearly
two thousand years should go for something. They are not to be swept away by the bluff, the
egoism of what claims to be the only "Expert Scholarship."

There is no occasion for a panic. Truth that has been, and has builded noble, goodly life,
is truth still, and ever will be. It is not a time for denunciation. The assumptions of the
destructive critics are so enormous, so radically revolutionary, so directly aimed at vital
truth, that one's heart is stirred. There is danger of yielding to the heat of a righteous
indignation. It is not well to lose one's intellectual and moral poise, even in a contest involving
the honor of God and the welfare of immortal souls. But "he that believeth shall not make haste."

The lovers of the Book that has safely passed through every storm of antagonism that the Prince
of Darkness could evoke, need not now be moved to hasty utterance. The eternal foundations
of truth, like him who laid them, are "the same, yesterday, to-day and forever." The Book,
with all its precious doctrines, is here to stay. It can not be destroyed. Fire has not burned
it, water has not quenched it, the edicts of tyrants and popes have not been able to break
its power. The Church of God can calmly rest on "the word of God, which liveth and abideth
forever." (1 Peter i. 23.) Hence we may calmly move on undisturbed in our work.

Further, our attitude should be marked by an intelligent understanding of the question involved.
It is not a question of fair, honest criticism, for the purpose of a deeper knowledge of God
and his truth. All reverent and helpful study of the Word of God is critical, and is the kind
of criticism that the Book challenges. Our Lord invites it, and urges us to "search the Scriptures,"
which testify of him.

It is assumed by the rationalistic critics that we have entered a new era, that the Bible has
never been studied until within recent years. This is an assumption unworthy of scientific
scholarship. Critics who have not sought to destroy the Word of God, but, by thorough investigation,
to determine its claims, have been at work on the Scriptures in all the past, seeking to know
the mind of the Spirit. There is, and ever has been a legitimate study of the Bible. Hence,
there are absolutely no grounds for the assumption of the rationalists. The Church of Christ
is not opposed to the application of the best methods and best scholarship in the investigation
of revealed truth. Indeed, the Protestant Church has ever been the mother of the highest education,
and has had an open ear to the call of God--"Come, let us reason together."

It is well to understand that the poorly-concealed purpose of the school of higher critics
is not to press the just and holy claims of God's Word on the human conscience, but to eliminate
the supernatural from it. The Christian Church should understand this. If atheistic scientists
can construct a universe without God, by evolutionary processes, and the critics can construct
a Bible without the supernatural, "the wisdom of this world" will have pretty thoroughly disposed
of God.

In the attitude of the Church toward destructive criticism, sometimes called historical, or
constructive, we must not fail to discover its bearing on the character of Christ. For the
final conflict of all skepticism of every grade and quality is in reference to the person and
work of Christ. The elimination of the supernatural from the Bible would be an invalidation
of Christ's claims and testimony. It would place him before the world as a false teacher, a
fraud, a charlatan. Loyalty to the Word, and to the Incarnate Word, demands, therefore, that
we should clearly understand the end to which this rationalism is drifting. For Christ's testimony
concerning the Old Testament Scriptures, which will be presented later in this discussion,
is so thoroughly in conflict with the modern critical assumptions that it must be disposed
of by those claiming expert scholarship. In the attempt to accomplish that feat, they put our
Lord under such limitations as would rob him of his character as Teacher and Redeemer.

The "experts" are logically driven to one of two conclusions: either that Christ did not know
the facts of the Old Testament Scriptures, which he believed and was sent to teach, or, knowing
the facts, he deemed it not important to teach them.

The first assumption puts our Savior on the basis of a fallible human teacher, and nothing
more. The second assumption contradicts all the professions of the critics. For they affirm
to-day that the professed discoveries of the mistaken views of the Bible are of the utmost
importance, and as honest men they are in conscience obliged to make them known, while claiming
that Christ did not make them known.

Shall we assume that these views, which they deem so important to-day, were of no importance
when the Church of Christ first took form? We may ask, what estimate should we have of Christ,
who, knowing his people were in error as to the authorship and origin of the Scriptures, would
leave them in darkness for more than eighteen hundred years? Is it to be assumed that he would
wait through the long centuries for the coming of critics to enlighten his people? That is
what we are logically asked to accept at their hands. It is thus made clear that the issue
of this conflict, as in all the past, is narrowed down to the person and character of our Savior.
It is well to face the issue calmly, and with a clear understanding of what is pending. Did
Christ know truth? Was he honest? Hence, the attitude of the Church should be taken in view
of the trend of modern critical discussion.

II. SHOULD REPLY BE MADE?

"If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?" Psa. xi. 3.

"Buy the truth and sell it not." Prov. xxiii. 23. Jude 3. 15.

"I am set for the defense of the gospel." Paul, Phil. i. 17.

It is a question among earnest Christian men, who are busily engaged in the work of the Master,
as to whether we should turn aside long enough to make reply to the destructive critics. It
is affirmed that, as the Word of God has already passed through all the attacks that have been
made upon it, it will defend itself in the future as in the past--that our duty is to preach
the gospel. Certainly the victories of the gospel are a noble defense of its truth and power
to save. There should be no respite from this work. But there are vast multitudes of people
that permit the critics to do their thinking for them. They are not well informed concerning
the Scriptures, and consequently are not prepared to repel the attacks of skepticism, nor to
reply to the specious arguments or positive assumptions of the critics. These multitudes are
in danger of casting aside the Word of God, and missing the offer of eternal life.

The fact of the increased activity of the enemies of the truth must be known to Christian people.
Their organized and persistent use of the press has gained for them a wide hearing. Shall the
Christian people deny themselves this instrumentality of getting a hearing for God and his
truth before the world? Would not silence be construed by the world as meaning that the cause
dear to the heart of God's people is indefensible?

It should be known to all lovers of the truth that the skepticism widely sown by the destructive
critics has entered the Protestant Church and many of our institutions of learning.

"Read the utterances of representative men and teachers in her communion, who deny the Incarnation,
repudiate vicarious sacrifice, make light of the story of the resurrection, and refine the
risen Son of God into nothing more than the spirit and essence of truth; or, at most, the disembodied
ghost of a man who called himself a Messiah, mistaken in his claims, but authoritative in his
morals." (Rev. I.M. Holdeman.)

The author of this statement refers also to the fact that there are "modern professors of theology
who convict the very prophets whom they hold up as exemplars of righteousness, of absolute
literary fraud, and deliberate piracy." They "demonstrate with cool precision that the higher
critics of to-day are better informed concerning the mistakes of Moses than was he who claimed
that Moses wrote of him, and prove to their own satisfaction and the belief of many followers
that Jesus Christ, our Lord, was limited in intelligence, and would, if he were here to-day,
deny some of the statements he once so unqualifiedly made."

We may not shut our eyes to the fact that many of our colleges are more or less infected with
this rationalistic criticism. Some of our theological professors have substituted the theory
of evolution for the Scriptural doctrine of creation by the Word of God. Our young men preparing
for the work of the ministry are under the influence and instruction of some of these teachers
here in our own country.

It is a matter for thanksgiving that we have literary and theological institutions into which
the destructive critics have never entered--institutions that stand for the Word of God as
given by the Holy Spirit, and believed in by God's servants in the past and to-day.

We do well to recognize the further fact concerning the effort to eliminate the supernatural
from the Bible, that the work of the rationalists has permeated the literature of the day.
In this age of reading fiction, that form of literature has become a convenient vehicle for
taking everything out of the hands of Providence. It has become easy to leave God out of his
universe and supplant him with the heroic in man. Hence, the literary appetite, ever craving
the human instead of the divine, turns away from the truth that confronts the conscience of
the reader with God and his claims.

For the defense of truth we have the example of prophets, apostles, and Christ himself. Much
of the work of the prophets of the Old Testament was devoted to the exposure of the "New Thought"
of their times. Moses dealt thoroughly with the new theology that asserted: "These be thy gods,
O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt." The heresy was ended as suddenly
as it was introduced.

The Epistle to the Galatians was Paul's reply to the Judiazing teachers who would substitute
ceremonials for the doctrine of justification by faith. His Epistle to the Ephesians was a
constructive work, in answer to Jewish prejudice and teaching, in which he set forth the unity
of Jews and Gentiles in one Church, which is the body of Christ. In his Epistle to the Corinthians
he answered their false views of marriage. He shamed their partisan spirit, in which some claimed
to be of Paul, some of Apollos, some of Christ. He labored most earnestly to convince them
of their false views concerning the resurrection, and dealt faithfully with the errorists concerning
the inquiry that was coming to the Church through their magnifying and perverting the use of
the gift of tongues. He showed them a more excellent way.

There should be no turning aside from preaching a full and free gospel, nor should there be
any halting in its defense, or against the effort to eliminate the supernatural from the Word
of God. The critical work that logically leaves us a Savior ignorant of the Scriptures, or,
if knowing them, afraid to meet Jewish prejudice by correcting their mistakes, should be kindly,
candidly, and manfully met by those to whom the truth has given life.

III. WAS MOSES "A LITERARY FICTION"? 4, 10.

"And afterward Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel,
Let my people go." Exod. v. 1. Exod. xii. 21, 35, 37. Exod. xxxiv. 27. Deut. xxxi. 24-26.

We turn now to the assumption that Moses was not the author, under God, of the Pentateuch.
The destructive critics do not agree among themselves as to the origin of the Pentateuch. Dates
and authors are variously adjusted among those claiming to be experts. There is, however, agreement
on one point, that Moses did not write the Pentateuch. It is affirmed that his name has been
attached to it to give it authority, because many of the events recorded and much of the history
took place during the period of Moses' life and in connection with his influence. But the critics
place the record of those events almost altogether after the exile, between nine hundred and
a thousand years after the time of Moses.

It was once affirmed that writing was not used in the days of Moses, and therefore he could
not have written the five books that claim him as their author. But the fact now brought to
light, and conceded by the critics and all well-informed scholars, that writing antedated Moses
by many centuries, has swept out of existence that objection. But the question is still raised
as to the Mosiac authorship of the Pentateuch. It is said in reply:

First--The Holy Spirit declares by the mouth of Stephen that "Moses was learned in all the
wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and deeds." Acts vii. 22.

Writing was long known to and practiced by the Egyptians, hence the man trained in all the
wisdom of the Egyptians was competent to write the Pentateuch.

Second--The Pentateuch very definitely claims Moses as its author, not once or twice, but many
times, all through these writings. Exod. xvii. 14. This was not the law, parts of which even
some of the critics concede that Moses wrote. It was God's judgment against Amalek. But it
was written in a book. What book? The inspired Scriptures say it was written here in Exodus
xvii. 14. And again it was repeated in Deut. xxv. 19, and that Moses wrote it.

In the twenty-fourth chapter of Exodus Moses has given an account of God's call to him, to
Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, and the seventy elders, to come up to Horeb. Moses was called into the
immediate presence of God, while the others remained at a distance. After his interview with
Jehovah it is written: "Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord.... And Moses
wrote all the words of the Lord." Exod. xxiv, 3, 4. Exod. xxxiv. 27.

We turn to the positive statement in Deuteronomy xxxi. 9. The chapter opens with the declaration
that "Moses spake these words unto all Israel," giving an extended account of what the words
were. In the ninth verse it is stated: ... "And Moses wrote this law and delivered it unto
the priests and unto all the elders of Israel." What became of that writing of Moses? Was it
lost? Or is the statement false? And did some later writer forge the statement, attributing
the writing to Moses, to give weight and authority to the forgery? To ask the question is to
answer it. "Moses wrote all the words of the Lord." Yet the critics teach that this book, Deuteronomy,
was not written until after the exile, almost a thousand years after the events narrated. Does
not critical credulity make larger demands than are laid on faith?

The summing up of the book of Numbers, of what had been said and written in the book, is stated
in the last chapter and last verse, namely, that "these are the commandments and the judgments
which the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses unto the children of Israel." Again and again
it is affirmed in the Pentateuch that God commanded Moses to write, and that he did write,
but the critics affirm that the hand of Moses had nothing to do with producing the books of
the Pentateuch--that they were written after the exile!

Not only does the Pentateuch distinctly teach the Mosaic authorship of the five books of Moses,
appropriately so called, but all the Old Testament saints entertained the opinion which the
Jewish people and the Christian Church hold to-day, that God spake to Moses, and that Moses
committed to writing the messages that God gave him and commanded him to write, embracing the
story of God's miracles, his instruction and dealing with them in the wilderness.

We find the critics contradicted in the Scriptures from Joshua to Malachi. To Joshua God said:
"As I was with Moses, so will I be with thee." (Joshua i. 5.) Eight times in the first chapter
of the book of Joshua God accredits Moses with having received and having given the law to
Joshua and the people.

The Pentateuch is the book which God, speaking to Joshua, calls "the law which my servant Moses
commanded thee" (Joshua i. 7), and it was so accepted by Joshua. Was he mistaken? or the critics?
He had long enjoyed most intimate relations with Moses, and knew what Moses had written by
the command of God.

David affirms that God had "made known his ways unto Moses, and his acts unto the children
of Israel" (Psa. ciii. 7). We have seen that the man Moses was competent to write, and did
write, what God had made known to him (Deut xxxi. 24). The Psalms are illuminated and set aflame
with the faith of Israel, that Moses said and wrote what is ascribed to him in the Pentateuch.

Ezra, Nehemiah, and the prophets down to Malachi reiterated the same belief, sung and taught
it to their children. Were they mistaken?

The finding of the Pentateuch during Josiah's reign, which had been lost in the rubbish of
the temple during the wicked reign of Manasseh and Ammon, is evidently referred to in 2 Chron.
xxxiv. 14, 15; "Hilkiah the priest found the book of the law of Jehovah by the hand of Moses.
(Margin, R.V.) And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan, I have found The Book of the law of
the house of the Lord." Four times within seven verses it is called "The Book." It was read
before the King, who humbled himself, and prepared himself and the people to observe the Passover
as it had been prescribed in "the law of Moses." Josiah commanded them to "kill the Passover,
and sanctify yourselves and prepare your brethren, that they may do according to the word of
the Lord by the hand of Moses" (2 Chron. xxxv. 6). This took place long before the exile, which
the critics insist was the beginning of Israel's literature, and after which they say the Pentateuch
was written.

Ezra testifies to the existence of the Mosaic law before his time. His testimony establishes
the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch. Ezra vii. 6: "This Ezra ... was a ready scribe in
the law of Moses." (Ezra iii. 2). Was Ezra deceiving the people?

There are several things to be noted here:

1. There was a written law of Moses, the man of God, then in existence. It was not a written
law of Ezra which the priests palmed off as the written law of Moses.

2. There was a priestly order, according to the written law of Moses the man of God, not according
to the invention of the exiles returning from captivity, under the pretense that Moses wrote it.

3. The altar was built according to the written law of Moses the man of God. These records
by Ezra effectually bar the door against the critical conjecture that the Pentateuch, in which
the written law of Moses the man of God is found, was fabricated after the exile.

The definite law for the place of building the altar, by which the priests proceeded in the
days of Ezra, is recorded by "Moses the man of God," in Deut. xii.

It is Ezra, not the critics, who informs us that this was "written in the law of Moses the
man of God." We will be pardoned for accepting the testimony of Ezra.

In the eighth chapter of the book of Nehemiah, that great servant of God affirms his faith
in the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch, which was also the faith of all the people of his
time. Ezra was not to make a book and call it the book of Moses, as some of the critics teach,
but to "bring the book of the law of Moses," a book in their possession already made, and with
which they were already familiar--"The Book of the Law of Moses."

"The Book of the Law of Moses" was the Jewish title given to the Pentateuch at that time, and
is so recognized again and again. Nehemiah viii. Nehemiah quotes this "command of the Lord
by Moses" from Lev. xxiii. 39-42, which was a fraud on the part of Nehemiah, if Moses was not
the author of the book.

The book of Moses in which this last reference from Nehemiah is written is the command that
the "Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever," and is
recorded in Deut. xxiii. 3, 4.

But our critical friends inform us that Deuteronomy was not written until after the captivity.
Hence, the logic of their position is, that Nehemiah attributes to Moses what he did not write,
and proves himself to be either ignorant of the truth or practicing a fraud upon the people.
We prefer the testimony of Nehemiah to that of the latter-day critics.

It should be repeated that the prophets and inspired writers down to Malachi reiterated their
confidence in the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch. And he, the last messenger of the Old
Testament to Israel, gave them this message from God: "Remember ye the law of Moses my servant,
which I commanded unto him" (Mal. iv. 4). Indeed, the entire testimony of the Old Testament
is in harmony with the positive statements made in the Pentateuch, that Moses was commanded
to write, and that he actually and positively "wrote all the words of the Lord" (Exod. xxiv.
4). There is not a word, syllable, hint, or shadow of a hint assigning these five books of
Moses to a later date or author.

The presumption, or guess, of the critics carries no weight in the face of the testimony of
the entire Old Testament that God commanded Moses to write, and that he did write, the five
books attributed to him.

IV. WERE CHRIST AND THE APOSTLES MISTAKEN? Acts i. 8.

"I speak the truth in Christ and lie not." Paul in 1 Tim. ii. 7. The Apostle John in Rev. i. 5. 2.

"If I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?" Christ, in John viii. 46.

"I am the way, the truth and the life." Christ, in John xiv. 6.

The opinions and testimony of the apostles are certainly worth something. They had three years
of instruction under our Lord, and the promise from him that the Holy Spirit should guide them
into all truth. (John xvi. 13.)

A study of the writers of the New Testament proves that they are in absolute harmony with the
writers of the Old Testament as to the Mosaic authorship of the five books of the Pentateuch.
Luke ii. 22 informs us that the mother of Jesus, "when the days of her purification were accomplished
according to the law of Moses," brought the child "to present him to the Lord." This was done,
according to Leviticus xii. 2-6, and accredits that book to Moses, and not to some imaginary
author. (John i, 17). If he has misled us in reference to Moses and the law, can we trust him
in reference to grace and truth by Jesus Christ?

When Peter made his address to the people who were surprised at the healing of the cripple,
he said: "Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto
you of your brethren," (See Acts iii. 22.)

This saying of Moses is recorded in Deut xviii. (Deut. i. 1), referring to the whole books
spoken by Moses, the learned man, mighty in words and deeds, but not recorded, the critics
say, until after the exile, about a thousand years! This you are asked to believe on the basis
of the professed or assumed acumen of the critics!

Further, in his great speech before the Sanhedrim at his martyrdom, Stephen quotes Moses as
having received full and complete directions from God concerning the tabernacle. (Acts vii.
44.) In the twenty-fifth chapter of Exodus, the book in which Moses was commanded to write
and did write, these directions are recorded. We accept Stephen's testimony, added to that
of Exod. xxv., rather than the testimony of the critics.

When Paul was writing to the Corinthians of the blindness of the Jews (2 Cor. iii. 15) he said:
"Even unto this day, when Moses is read, the veil is upon their hearts."

Moses must have written something if he was read. What has become of his writings? Is it not
the Pentateuch which the Scriptures everywhere call the writings of Moses? Undoubtedly, yes. 39).

Why does Paul refer to the ceremonial of the Jewish ritual as the law of Moses? It must be
answered that Paul was a Jew. He was familiar with the Jewish scriptures. He had read the following
passages and believed them, and was grounded in the truth which they declare, that "by the
hand of Moses" they were given to the people.

To satisfy the reader that they were "given by the hand of Moses" the following Scriptures
are furnished:

1. "Aaron and his sons did all things which were commanded by the hand of Moses." (Lev. viii. 36.)

2. "These are the statutes and judgments and laws which the Lord made between him and the children
of Israel in Mount Sinai, by the hand of Moses." (Lev. xxvi. 46.)

4. "These were they that were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all that might do
service in the tabernacle of the congregation, which Moses and Aaron did number, according
to the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses." (Num. iv. 37.)

5. "These ... whom Moses and Aaron numbered, according to the word of the Lord by the hand
of Moses." (Num. iv. 45.)

6. "According to the commandment of the Lord they were numbered by the hand of Moses." (Num.
iv. 49.)

7. 23.)

8. "And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the Lord by the hand
of Moses." (Num. x. 13.)

9. "Even all that the Lord hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the Lord
commanded Moses." (Num. xv. 23.)

10. "That no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to offer incense before
the Lord, that he be not as Kora and his company, as the Lord said to him by the hand of Moses."
(Num. xvi. 40.)

11. "And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the Lord commanded by the hand
of Moses." (Num. xxvii. 23.)

12. "These are the commandments and the judgments which the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses."
(Num. xxxvi. 13.)

13. "By lot was their inheritance, as the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses." (Joshua xiv. 2.)

14. (Joshua xx. 2.)

15. "The Lord commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with the suburbs
thereof for our cattle." (Joshua xxi. 2.)

16. (Joshua xxi. 8.)

17. (Joshua xxii. 9.)

18. (Judges iii. 4.)

19. (1 Kings viii. 53.)

20. (1 Kings viii. 56.)

21. "So that they will take heed to do all that I have commanded them, according to the whole
law and the statutes and the ordinances by the hand of Moses." (2 Chron. xxxiii. 8.)

22. "Thou ... madest known unto them thy holy Sabbath, and commandedst unto them precepts,
statutes and laws, by the hand of Moses thy servant." (Neh. ix. 14.)

24. (Psa. lxxvii. 20.)

Paul was familiar with these statements of the Jewish Scriptures. He believed them. (2 Cor. iv.

Some of the critics will concede that many things were done by Moses, but not recorded until
after the exile. Think of it! The laws, statutes, and ordinances which were vital to the life
of the Jewish nation, which had been given at Sinai, and were announced with the sanctions
of life or death, were not recorded by God's appointed leader, whom he had trained in all the
learning of the times, but were left for almost a thousand years to uncertain tradition!

Paul had not forgotten the above statements concerning Moses' personal connection with the
giving of the law. Before Felix he was arraigned, and testified "what the prophets and Moses
did say." (Acts xxvi. 22.)

To the Jews at Rome "he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning
Jesus, both out of the laws of Moses and out of the prophets." (Acts xxviii. 23.)

In his Epistle to the Roman Christians he says (quoting from Lev. xviii. 5): "For Moses writeth
that the man that doeth the righteousness which is of the law shall live thereby." (1 Cor.
ix. 9.) Here again he quotes from Deut. xxv. 4, and repeats the quotation in 1 Tim. v. 18.
But the critics deny that it was written until after the exile, at least nine hundred or one
thousand years later. (Acts xv. 21.)

We have learned in these quotations from Matthew, Luke, John, Stephen, Peter, and Paul, their
repeated testimony, their unvarying faith that Moses both spoke and wrote the scriptures contained
in the Pentateuch. We have seen that their faith was founded on twenty-four inspired declarations
that these five books were given "by the hand of Moses." These statements are found in the
books themselves, from Leviticus to the Psalms. If inspired testimony is worth anything, the
case is closed, and the critics' case goes out of court, more than disproved.

WAS CHRIST MISTAKEN?

The reader will be interested to know what Christ has to say of the critics' denial of the
Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch. For he who "spake as never man spake," he of whom the
Father said, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, hear ye him," this same Jesus
had some very positive opinions on the subject before us. He has spoken clearly and definitely.
We may not turn away from his testimony.

1. (See Matt. viii. 4, Mark i. 44, Luke v. 14.)

Our Savior here quotes from Lev. xiv. 2-8. Moses had been commanded to write the words that
God had given him. (Exod. xxxiv. 27.) "And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord" (Exod. xxiv.
4), hence our Lord quotes the passage in Leviticus from Moses.

2. The Pharisees, always captious and controversial, sought to entangle the Savior in a discussion
on the subject of divorce. Replying, "He saith unto them, Moses, because of the hardness of
your hearts, suffered you to put away your wives." (Matt. xix. 8.) Our Lord here quotes from
the Mosaic law (Deut. xxiv. I-4), recognizing Moses as the author of the same.

3. He rebuked the scribes and Pharisees also for turning from the word of God to the traditions
of men. "For Moses said, Honor thy father and thy mother." (Mark vii. 10.) This quotation is
from Exod. xx. 12, and Deut. v. 16. They had made the command of Moses of no effect, had violated
the law which Christ taught had been given by Moses.

4. The Sadducees came to him with their controversy concerning the resurrection. They presented
to him an unanswerable argument, as they supposed, against the doctrine, questioning as to
whose wife she should be in the resurrection, who has had seven husbands in this life. Christ
replied (Mark xii. He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living."

This quotation by our Lord is from Exod. iii. 6, and he calls the book from which it is made
"the book of Moses." Did Christ know whether it was the book of Moses or of some unknown author
who had so artfully palmed it off under false colors as to deceive the entire Jewish nation?

Or, as certain of the critics teach, did Christ know that the pretense that it was the book
of Moses was a fraud, but, in view of public opinion, was unwilling to expose the deception?
To ask these questions is to uncover the animus of the critical assumptions which logically
attack the character of Christ himself.

Christ knew who was the author of the book, and knowing, he affirmed that it was "The Book
of Moses."

5. In our Lord's parable of the rich man and Lazarus, Dives is represented as pleading that
some one be sent from the dead to warn his brothers, lest they also come into this place of
torment. 29, 30.) "Moses and the prophets" was the name for the Jewish Bible. If Moses did
not write the Pentateuch, the name of their Bible was false, and the Savior indorsed a falsehood.
We believe "the faithful and true Witness," and reject the critics who dishonor his character.

6. After Christ's resurrection he walked and communed with the two disciples on the way to
Emmaus. He instructed them concerning the Messiah's death, and, "beginning at Moses" (Luke
xxiv. 27), informed them that it was God's plan, foretold in the Old Testament. He appeared
to his apostles and declared to them that "all things must be fulfilled which are written in
the law of Moses and the prophets." (Luke xxiv. 44.) The critics deny Moses' authorship, but
Christ affirms it, using the language that means the Pentateuch. We believe him.

7. In our Lord's conversation with Nicodemus he recognizes Moses in connection with the book
of Numbers. He refers to the historical incident, if our critical friends will leave us any
Biblical history, in Numbers xxi. 8, 9. 14.)

Recurring to the passage in Numbers, we learn that, in the dire distress of the people for
their sins, God commanded Moses to make a brazen serpent, and lift it up before the people,
that they might look and live.

Certain of the critical school consent that Moses, was connected with the event, but did not
record it. Indeed! And what proof that he failed to make the record? It was personal to himself.
It was symbolically prophetic of the crucifixion of Christ, as our Savior used it, an event
toward which all prophecy moved. And we have already learned that nine times it has been stated
in the book of Numbers that the acts, precepts, and statutes of this book were done and given
by "the hand of Moses."

8. To the Jews, seeking to murder their Messiah, he said; "Do not think that I will accuse
you to the Father; there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust. For had ye
believed Moses ye would have believed me, for he wrote of me." (See John v. 45, 46.)

When and where did he write of Christ? He wrote of him in the five books which are ascribed
to Moses by all the Old Testament Scriptures, and by Christ and his apostles. He wrote of him
in Gen. iii. 15, when God promised that "the seed of the woman shall bruise the serpent's head."
He wrote of Christ in Gen. xii. 3, when God promised Abraham: "In thee shall all families of
the earth be blessed." He wrote of the Messiah when he recorded Jacob's prophecy in Gen. xlix.
10: "The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet until Shiloh
come." Moses wrote of Christ, when under divine direction he instituted the passover, as recorded
in the twelfth chapter of Exodus.

He wrote of Christ in the Levitical ritual, when under God's instruction he set up the system
of types, for the tabernacle and the temple service, which taught the fundamentals of the New
Testament gospel--redemption by the blood.

The whole tabernacle and its furniture was necessary to complete the symbolism that should
represent the Messiah. The altar, the laver, the shew bread, the golden candlestick, the mercy
seat, and the officiating high priest. For "Moses was admonished of God when he was about to
make the tabernacle," and received positive direction as to how he should construct it, that
redemption should echo from every part of the service. Beautiful and glorious was the service
that proclaimed "Christ and him crucified." Christ's testimony here is twofold: That "Moses
wrote," and that he "wrote of me," of Christ, the witness of these things.

9. It was at the feast of tabernacles, in the year 29 A.D., that the Jews attacked the Savior
in a fierce controversy, because he healed on the Sabbath day. He was teaching in the temple
when they charged him with violating the Sabbath.

To that charge he replied: "Did not Moses give you the law? Yet none of you keepeth the law."
(See John vii. 19.) He affirms in most positive terms, that can not be twisted into the shadow
of a negation, that Moses gave them the law. The interrogative form of his statement is rhetorically
the strongest possible affirmation.

10. Once more, in the twenty-third verse of the same chapter, Christ refers to the fact that
their children received circumcision on the Sabbath day, that "the law of Moses be not broken."

The sum of Christ's testimony to the Mosaic authorship of the Pentateuch is before us. Ten
times our Lord asserts in the passages quoted that the law given in the Pentateuch was the
"law of Moses." He affirms that in that law "he wrote of me." From Genesis to Revelation there
is continued affirmation by prophets, apostles, and by Christ, who can not lie, that the five
books of the Pentateuch are the books of Moses, under the guiding hand of the Spirit of God.

A recent writer, who has gone over the testimony of the Bible itself against the critics, says:
"We find in them (the writers of the Old Testament) more than eight hundred quotations from,
or references to, the first five books of the Bible, and not a hint is given that Moses is
not their author," but he is everywhere recognized as the author, under God.

Witnesses multiply with every restudy of the book, proving the Mosaic authorship of the first
five books of The Book. "What shall we say, then, to these things? If God be for us, who can
be against us?"

V. THE ATTACK ON THE BOOK OF LEVITICUS.

"The Lord called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation,
saying, Speak unto the children of Israel and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering,
ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd and of the flock." Lev. i. I,
2. Lev. ii. 2. 1, 2.

"And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul
shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the Lord concerning things which
ought not to be done, ... let him bring for his sin, which he hath sinned, a young bullock
without blemish unto the Lord for a sin offering." Lev. iv. 1, 2, 3.

"His truth endureth to all generations." Psa. c. 5.

Having considered the critical assault on the Pentateuch as a whole, attention should be called
to the special criticisms on the book of Leviticus. A prominent representative of the school
of critics affirmed in his recent lectures at Long Beach, California, that the Hebrews had
no literature until their connection with the Babylonians while in captivity, that their literature
was developed during their agricultural life while in Babylon. He affirmed that the sacrificial
ritual of the book of Leviticus had its roots in the heathen sacrifices growing out of their
false conception that their deities must be appeased by the shedding of blood. The Levitical
ritual was, therefore, never written nor given by Moses. If this gentleman and the critics
that hold with him are correct, we must conclude with them that Moses never saw or heard of
our book of Leviticus.

In reply let it be said:

1. The denial of the existence of Hebrew literature prior to the exile is thoroughly answered
and set aside by the records discovered on the Egyptian monuments and writings before and during
Israel's bondage. Many of the critics have found this criticism untenable, and have abandoned
it. They have been obliged to concede that Egyptian and Babylonian literature existed long
before the time of Moses. The best scholarship of to-day affirms that "the discovery and first
use of writing is certainly as old as the time of Abraham." (See Schaff-Hergoz, Enc. Art. Writing.)

2. If the Bible itself is not a fraud, writing was constantly in use in the time of Moses. See:

(1) Exod. vii. 14: "The Lord said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book."

(2) Exod. xxiv. 4: "And Moses wrote all the words of the Lord."

(3) Exod. xxxiv. 27: "And the Lord said unto Moses, Write thou these words."

(4) Exod. xxxiv. 28: "And he (God) wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant."

(5) Num. v. 23: "And the priest shall write these curses in a book."

(6) Num. xi. 26: "They were of them that were written."

(7) Num. xvii. 2: "Write thou every man's name upon his rod."

(8) Num. xvii. 3: "Write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi."

(9) Num. xxxiii. 2: "And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeyings by the
commandment of the Lord."

(10) Deut. vi. 9: "Thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house and upon thy gates."

(11) Deut xi. 20. Repeats the last reference cited.

These are a few out of the many passages in the Pentateuch in which God has commanded his servant
to write, and in which it is positively stated that his servant did write. One of two things
is certain, either the whole Pentateuch is a fraud, having stated repeatedly that writing was
commanded and practiced, or the book is true, and the fraud must be charged to the belated critics.

The reader will see very clearly that the purpose of such criticism is to eliminate the supernatural
from the Bible, as has been said, and destroy its certitude.

It is too late in the day for the Professor's criticism, that Hebrew literature had its first
development during the exile. "Stephen full of the Holy Spirit, looking steadfastly into heaven,"
read the record of history concerning Moses differently. Stephen could not have heard the Chautauqua
lecturer's statement, for he affirmed that "Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians,
and was mighty in words and deeds."

3. Consider now the assumptions of the critics in the face of the claims of the book of Leviticus.
In the first verses of the book it is written: "And the Lord called upon Moses, and spake unto
him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying." Then follow God's specific directions
concerning

(1) The burnt offering;

(2) The meat offering, and

(3) The sin offering, occupying the whole of the first three chapters. The fourth chapter is
introduced in the same explicit language.

(4) The sin offering.

This definite direction of God to Moses extends to the sixth chapter of the book. Here again
the same formula of speech is employed, God speaking to Moses gave directions concerning

(5) The trespass offering.

In the eighth chapter we have God's direct communication to Moses, and Moses' response in such
phrases as the following, and all in a single chapter: "And the Lord spake to Moses, ... and
Moses did as the Lord commanded him, ... and Moses said unto the congregation, ... and Moses
brought Aaron and his sons, ... as the Lord commanded Moses, ... and Moses brought Aaron's
sons, as the Lord commanded Moses." Ten times in this single chapter it is recorded that God
spake to Moses, and Moses obeyed God.

And yet our critic would have us believe one of two things; God either took the heathen sacrificial
ritual, veneered it with some sort of divine approval, and handed it over to his people for
their use, or by some sort of evolution the book of Leviticus came up out of the heathen method
of appeasing their malevolent deities!

Let the facts be summarized. In every one of the twenty-seven chapters of the book of Leviticus
God is represented as commanding Moses, and Moses is represented as doing the thing which God
required of him, and several times in many of the chapters. In the eighteenth chapter nineteen
definite things are done by Moses, the seventeenth verse asserting that all this was done "as
the Lord commanded Moses."

The following references are absolutely unanswerable by the critics, viz.:

Lev. i. 1: "The Lord called unto Moses, and spake unto him."

Lev. iv. 1: "The Lord spake unto Moses, saying," etc.

Lev. vi. 1; "And the Lord spake unto Moses."

Lev. viii. 1: "And the Lord spake unto Moses."

Lev. viii. 36: "Aaron and his sons did all things which the Lord commanded by the hand of Moses."

Lev. ix. 6: "And Moses said, This is the thing which the Lord commanded that ye should do."

Lev. xi. 1: "And the Lord spake unto Moses and to Aaron."

Lev. xii. 1: "And the Lord spake unto Moses."

Lev. xiii. 1: "And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron."

Lev. xiv. 1: "And the Lord spake unto Moses."

Lev. xiv. 33: "And the Lord spake unto Moses and unto Aaron."

Without further repetition of this phraseology, the reader will find the same in the following
references, viz.: xv. 1, xvi. 1, xvii. 1, xviii. 1, xix. 1, xx. 1, xxi. 1, xxii. 1-17, xxiii.
1, xxiv. 1, xxv. 1, xxvii. 1-34.

Here are twenty-five positive statements that God spake to Moses, or commanded Moses. Does
language mean anything? Is there any escape from the truth, except by a denial of the entire
Word of God?

God and Moses are the active agents in every chapter in the book of Leviticus. And this fact
is definitely stated in the last verse of Leviticus: "These are the commandments which the
Lord commanded Moses."

You might as well attempt to blot the sun from the heavens at high noon as to eliminate from
the book of Leviticus the one great and divinely-appointed personality, Moses, the lawgiver,
the leader the actor, and under God the author of the book.

A further word concerning the date of Leviticus. When was it written? As already stated, the
critics place the time of the writing after the exile, between nine hundred and one thousand
years after the decease of Moses. Something additional should be added to what has already
been said on the subject.

The reader of the English Bible will see that Leviticus immediately follows Exodus by the connective
"and." The same Hebrew connective unites Exodus with Genesis, and Numbers with Leviticus. The
natural, grammatical, and logical inference is, that the author of Genesis is the author of
Exodus, Leviticus, and Numbers.

In addition to this fact we have the testimony of some of the prophets who lived before the
exile, that they were familiar with what the critics call "the priestly code," which is elaborated
in Leviticus.

Professor Stanley Leathes adduces forty-five allusions to the books of Moses in the book of
Amos. (See Bible Student and Teacher, October, 1906.) Amos' prophetic work was "in the northern
kingdom, between 807 and 765 B.C., during the reign of Jeroboam II, when the kingdom of Israel
was at the height of its splendor." (See Schaff-Herzog, Enc. Art. Amos.) This was more than
two hundred years before the restoration from the exile, long before the captivity, which the
critics designate as the beginning of the literary period.

Professor Leathes affirms that "there is apparent acquaintance with and reference to each book
of the Pentateuch in this prophecy." He shows that Leviticus is referred to in nine passages
in Amos. The reference in Amos iv. 5 to "a sacrifice in thanksgiving with leaven" is an allusion
to the law of thanksgiving in Lev. vii. 13. (Amos v. 23.)

This is an allusion to the law of burnt offerings and meat offerings set forth in the first
chapter of Leviticus. But the critics inform us that there was no law concerning these offerings
until several hundred years after Amos ceased to prophesy!

Again, enumerating the sins of the people, Amos charges them with giving the Nazarites wine
to drink. "Ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy
not." (Amos ii. 12.) This was a violation of the law of God as found in Num. vi. 2, 3, showing
at least that the Pentateuch, of which Leviticus is an important part, was known to Amos, long
before the period to which Leviticus has been assigned by the destructive critics.

Hosea adds his testimony to that of Amos and Ezekiel. Again and again he refers to the law
of sacrifices as taught in Leviticus. "They shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices."
(Hosea iv. 13, 19.)

Concerning Ephraim, God says by the prophet Hosea: "I wrote for him ten thousand things of
my law." (Hosea viii. 12, R.V.) He refers to the law as given to Moses in all its length and
breadth.

The critics demand large credulity from us. They ask us to accept their position that the Bible
itself was mistaken as to its authorship, that Christ and his apostles were mistaken; or at
least did not tell the truth when they assigned the Pentateuch (Leviticus included) to Moses.
They then ask us to believe that the Bible is not only unimpaired by the mistakes which the
experts claim to have discovered, but is really much improved by the discovery!

It passes rational comprehension that we are permitted to expunge from the Word of God, on
the ground of literary criticism, the positive and repeated statements of inspired men, and
of the Son of God, and yet assume that we have an unimpaired revelation!

We rather turn to the glorious array of witnesses to the integrity of the Bible that God has
furnished--the book itself, Moses and the prophets, all the New Testament writers and the "Teacher
sent from God." From these witnesses we rest in the unshaken belief that "God spake all these
words" (Ex. xx. 1) and that "Moses wrote all the words of the Lord" (Ex. xxiv. 4), including
Leviticus.

VI. ASSUMPTIONS CONCERNING THE BOOK OF ISAIAH.

"God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God." Psa. lxii. 11.

"Great is our Lord, and of great power; his understanding is infinite." Psa. cxlvii. 5.

"He revealeth the deep and secret things; he knoweth what is in the darkness, and that the
light dwelleth with him." Dan. ii. 2.

"Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world" Acts xv. 18.

"The Lord looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men." Psa. xxxiii. 13.

"Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say." Ex. iv. 12.

"And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed,
but perceive not." Isaiah vi. 9.

The critics claim to have discovered, on literary and other evidence, that the Church of Christ,
in all its branches, has been mistaken in all the past concerning the author of the book known
as the Prophecies of Isaiah. They assume that all the foremost scholars of the world, and the
faith of God's people, have been misled. Our critical advisers profess to have discovered that
there were at least two, and probably many more prophets, whose writings compose the book.
They refuse to recognize Isaiah alone as the author; and for several reasons:

First--Because of the change of style of composition from the thirty-ninth chapter to the close
of the book.

Second--On the ground that the theme is more exalted than in the first thirty-nine chapters.
Hence, it is assumed that these last chapters could not have been written by Isaiah.

Third--On the ground that Cyrus is mentioned by name, in the forty-fourth and forty-fifth chapters
of the book, as the restorer of Jerusalem. Hence, our critics conclude that this part of the
book must have been written after the event, as the prophet (it is assumed) could not name
Cyrus before his birth.

Fourth--The critics assume that the prophet must prophesy out of his immediate surroundings,
whatever that may mean. They furnish their troubled disciples the comforting assurance that
these discoveries do not diminish the value of the book, but render it more accurate and interesting
as a literary work. The professor already quoted, a fair representative of the critical school,
in his recent lectures, referred to on a preceding page, distinguished the authors of the book
as "Isaiah and the Great Unknown Prophet." Other critics multiply, somewhat indefinitely, the
number of "The Unknowns." Our critic regards the change in style and theme from the thirty-ninth
chapter to the end of the book as valid proof of at least the dual authorship of the book.

This assumption instantly raises the question as to who is the author of prophetic themes.
Is it the prophet himself or the Holy Spirit? Does the prophet himself bring forth the prophecy
of his own foreknowledge? Or, is the Holy Spirit the inspirer of themes new and old? Happily
God has settled the question for us. He declares by his Apostle Peter "that no prophecy of
Scripture is of any private interpretation"; that is, of the prophet's own disclosure. It is
a limitation of God himself to the critic's notion of what should, or should not be. This would
eliminate the divine element of the book by a sweep of the critic's pen. It is an assumption
too groundless to need a reply.

Further, as to the change of style. Nothing is more natural or reasonable than the fact that
a change of theme should produce a change of style. A more exalted theme must quicken the imagination,
set the emotions aflame, stimulate all the mental and moral powers of the author. A historical
statement, a commonplace theme, can be dealt with in a commonplace style, while new and uplifting
truth awakens new powers in the writer. Milton's Paradise Lost was entirely different from
his ordinary prose composition. Dr. John Watson's sermons were on a higher level than his books
of fiction. Writers who do much of their literary work on the level plain on which the people
move, frequently rise to mountain peaks of sublime composition when the occasion and theme
demand it.

The style in the later chapters of the book of Isaiah is just what we would expect from the
prophet when the Holy Spirit opened to his enraptured mind the theme of redemption through
a suffering Messiah, in the fifty-third and following chapters of the book.

The objection to conceding the authorship of the entire book to Isaiah, because the prophet
mentions Cyrus by name before his birth, is made in the face of the fundamental fact already
stated that God inspired the writer, and is therefore the author of prophecy, "declaring the
end from the beginning." (Isa. xlvi. 10.) He knows all the future and whom he will choose to
accomplish his glorious purposes. To deny this fact is to deny all prophecy. If God can not
foretell future events and the instruments for their accomplishment, there can be no prophecy,
and God's omniscience is impeached. Matthew affirms that this prophecy was fulfilled in the
birth of Jesus. (Matt. i. 22, 23.) He also declares in the same connection that the announcing
angel foretold that the name "Jesus" was to be given to the Messiah at his birth. These preannouncements
must be cast aside if the critic's dictum is accepted. Shall we discredit Isaiah, the announcing
angel, and Matthew on the ground of the critic's literary acumen? More than three hundred years
after this prophecy was given, according to Usher's Chronology, Josiah was born and did the
precise things that were predicted concerning him. (See 1 Kings xiii. 2 and 2 Kings xxiii,
15, 16.) The omniscience of the Holy Spirit can predict the name of the instrument as readily
as the event which is to be accomplished.

Again, undoubtedly the prophet must speak out of his own environment. He can speak only where
he is. But who is to decide how many and what allusions he must make to custom or incident
in order to satisfy the critic, as to his time and place in history?

The tailor who decides that he must have twenty yards of cloth to make a suit of clothes, when
ten yards are sufficient, will shortly be wanting customers. The critic who has decided how
many and what kind of synchronous events must be furnished by the prophet, in order to secure
his credence as to authorship, will be left without a prophet or a Bible.

The erection of an arbitrary law, by which to interpret history or prophecy in the Bible, is
contrary to all the treatment which secular literature receives from these same critics.

From these strained, forced and unphilosophical methods of dealing with prophecy, we turn to
the testimony of the inspired book itself. The book of Isaiah is distinguished by a phraseology
peculiar to this prophet. He speaks of God as "The Holy One of Israel." This title, as applied
to God, is used only seven times in the entire Old Testament; once in 2 Kings, three times
in the Psalms, twice in the prophecies of Jeremiah, and once in Ezekiel, but never in the minor
prophets. But Isaiah uses this title as applied to God, twenty-two times, running through the
entire book from the first to the sixtieth chapter.

The reader will be interested to note how the repeated use of the phrase--"The Holy One of
Israel"--attests the unity of the authorship of the entire book. Hence the passages ("line
upon line, line upon line") are here presented to give their unequivocal testimony to our Sabbath
School teachers.

1: Isaiah I:4--"They have forsaken the Lord, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger."

2: Isaiah v:18, 19--"Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were
with a cart rope: that say ... let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come,
that we may know it."

5: Isaiah xvii:7--"At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall have respect
to the Holy One of Israel."

6: Isaiah xxix:19--"The poor among man shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel."

7: Isaiah xxx:11--"Cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us." (The language of
a rebellious people.)

8: Isaiah xxx:12--"Wherefore, thus saith the Holy One of Israel, because ye despise this word
... therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall."

9: Isaiah xxx:15--"Thus saith the Lord God, the Holy One of Israel; In returning and rest shall
ye be saved."

10: Isaiah xxxi:1--"They look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the Lord."

14: Isaiah xliii:13--"I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Savior."

16: Isaiah xlvii:4--"As for our Redeemer, the Lord of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel."

17: Isaiah xlviii:17--"Thus saith the Lord, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, I am the
Lord thy God, which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go."

18: Isaiah xlix:7--"Thus saith the Lord ... Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship,
because of the Lord that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, and he shall choose thee."

22: Isaiah lx:14--"And they shall call thee the city of the Lord, the Zion of the Holy One
of Israel."

The reader will notice that this phrase, as applied to God is a characteristic of Isaiah. We
have not found it in any of the minor prophets, and but twice in the prophecies of Jeremiah,
and once in Ezekiel. But Isaiah uses it more than twenty times, running from the first to the
sixtieth chapter. He uses it ten times before reaching the fortieth chapter, and twelve times
in the chapters following, which the critics have assigned to some unknown author or authors.
Shall we be asked to conclude that the unknown authors adopted Isaiah's style, his phraseology,
from the fortieth chapter to the end of the book? For what motive? To conceal themselves? The
assumption is too large. If the first thirty-nine chapters of this book are accepted, as the
prophecies of Isaiah, by every law of fair criticism the whole book must claim this prophet
as its author.

VII. GOD'S REPLY TO THESE ASSUMPTIONS. Deut. xix. 15. 4.

"Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples; and they are written for our admonition,
upon whom the ends of the world are come." 1 Cor. x. 11.

"My people shall know my name, therefore they shall know in that day that I am he that doth
speak, Behold, it is I." Isaiah lii. 6.

In the New Testament we have in the Gospels and the Epistles God's teachings concerning the
Old Testament. (John xiv. 26.)

In the fulfillment of this promise they have given us the testimony of God, the Holy Spirit,
on all the subjects of which they have written. What, therefore, is their testimony concerning
the author of the book of Isaiah? Did that prophet write the book, or is it a patched book
from various authors?

Matthew, the inspired author of the book that bears his name, quotes from Isaiah xl. (See Matt.
iii. 3.)

The critics inform us that this prophecy was not given by Isaiah, but by some unknown prophet,
and was bound up with Isaiah's prophecies, and labeled as his. Matthew informs us that it was
a prophecy concerning John the Baptist, and was given by Isaiah himself, and not by another.
He says (iii. (R.V.)

Again, in Matt. viii. 17, the author of this gospel quotes a passage from the fifty-third chapter
of Isaiah. The critics have handed this fifty-third chapter over to the Unknown prophet or
prophets. They affirm again that the theme and literary style of this chapter are such that
Isaiah could not have written it. They base their affirmation on their own literary discoveries,
their ability to detect the footprints of some other prophet, though they do not inform us
who that prophet is. They are sure that it was not Isaiah, for they have already placed him
under such limitations that, according to their critical decision, he could not write the chapter.
He had not discovered the limitations of the prophet, which the critics profess to have found.
Hence, in giving the history of God's gracious and miraculous work of casting out demons and
healing the sick, he declares (Matt. viii. 17), without a shadow of a mistake, that Christ
wrought these miracles, "that it might be fulfilled which was spoken through Isaiah the prophet,
saying, Himself took our infirmities and bare our diseases." (See also Isaiah liii. 4.)

As Matthew is on the witness stand, the reader will be interested to hear his testimony further.
In his gospel (xii. 17-21) he testifies that Isaiah wrote the forty-second chapter of the prophecy
that bears his name. Matthew quotes the first four verses of the chapter, in explanation of
the fact that Christ found it necessary during his ministry to retire from the public excitement
which his teaching and miracles had produced.

This quotation is from Isaiah, forty-second chapter, and first part of the chapter. The reader
will remember that the critics deny this testimony of Matthew. This forty-second chapter which
he (Matthew) assigns to Isaiah is a part of the book which they affirm has come to us from
some unknown source.

It is worthy of repetition that three times Matthew, the inspired author of the first gospel,
has affirmed without equivocation that the passages which he quotes were "spoken by Isaiah
the prophet." The critics say "No." Which will the reader believe? Luke iv. 16-19.

Luke informs us that it was "the book of the prophet Isaiah" from which our Savior made this
quotation. We turn to the prophecy and discover that the passage is found in the sixty-first
chapter and first and second verses of the book. But the critics who are correcting our Bible
for us (?) inform us that their same literary discovery holds good here--that this part of
the book was not written by Isaiah. They assume to hand over this part of the book, knowingly,
to the "Great Unknown" and unknowable prophets. The testimony of Luke contradicts the critics.
He gives Isaiah full credit as the author of the statement. The reader will doubtless accept
the fact that the inspired writer, the author of Luke's gospel, obtained his information at
first hand, from God himself, who inspired the record.

Again Luke contradicts the critics when he puts on record Philip's interview with the eunuch,
as we find it in Acts viii. 30-33. When Philip joined himself to the eunuch, by direction of
the Spirit, he "heard him reading Isaiah the prophet (Isaiah liii. 7), and said, Understandest
thou what thou readest?" In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: his generation who
shall declare? For his life is taken from the earth," (R.V., Acts viii. 30-33.)

Our critics have robbed Isaiah of this passage. It was written, so their literary skill claims
to have discovered, by some prophet who has successfully concealed himself, and finally disappeared
from sight, leaving no hope that his name will ever be discovered.

Luke informs us that he knew who the prophet was that penned that touching description of the
coming Messiah, and that his name was Isaiah. This question he has settled.

Turning to the gospel of John, we are furnished the testimony of one of whom our Lord said,
"Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of woman, there hath not risen a greater than
John the Baptist." This witness comes before us, therefore, indorsed by Jesus Christ himself,
"The faithful Witness." We ask him, therefore, to speak for himself as to who is the author
of that part of prophecy which the critics are attempting to wrest from Isaiah.

When the priests and Levites came to ask him, "Who art thou? That we may give an answer to
them that sent us. (See John i. 22, 23, R.V.)

This was his testimony, first concerning himself. We believe him. And this was his testimony,
secondly, concerning the author of the prophecy which he quoted: "Isaiah the prophet."

Again we believe him, and as confidently, concerning the second statement as the first. And
the Apostle John was so confident of its truth that he put it on record.

The passage quoted (Isaiah xl. 3) belongs to that part of the book which our critic and his
fellow critics have decided was predicted by some stray prophet, unknown to the world, to the
Jewish people or the church. We prefer the statement of John the Baptist, and its indorsement
by John the Apostle.

The reader will now recall that we have already heard Matthew's corroboration of the testimony
of John the Baptist concerning Isaiah's claim to this prophecy. (See Matt iii. 3.)

In the gospel of the Apostle John he puts on record his personal testimony concerning the author
of the book bearing Isaiah's name. Explaining the amazing unbelief of the Jews, he says (xii.
(R.V.)

The reader will see that this inspired writer of the fourth gospel is quoting from Isaiah liii.
1, thus testifying to Isaiah's authorship.

Our literary critics have decided that this chapter was forbidden ground to Isaiah, that, if
we are to believe them, he had no connection with this prophecy.

We are asked to believe that the author of this fifty-third chapter, the most minute and tender
prophecy concerning the Messiah's sufferings for his people, and rejection by them, has dropped
out of sight! We are asked to believe that the name of the prophet who gave this dramatic picture
of what was to take place on Calvary seven hundred years later, has been lost in the fog of
the passing centuries! We are asked to believe that the name of the author of the first thirty-nine
chapters, the less important part of the book, has been preserved, but oblivion has overtaken
the author of the book from the fortieth chapter to the end.

The assumption is an affront to the intelligence of the ordinary reader of the Bible. It is
an impeachment of the honesty of the authors of the gospels, which the unshaken faith of God's
people can never concede.

The reader can now sum up the testimony of Matthew, Mark (see i. 3, R.V.), Luke, John, and
John the Baptist, all of whom with one voice contradicts the critics. We also prefer, with
these witnesses, to discredit the men who are picking out clauses, verses and chapters here
and there, and guessing them off to authors of their own invention, who have never been known
or heard of.

It is not sufficient for the critics to say that these New Testament authors knew better, but
deferred to popular sentiment, based on tradition. That can not satisfy our estimate of them
as God's divinely appointed teachers, chosen to make record of the momentous truth on which
the salvation of a lost world hangs. Men, ready to lay down their lives for the truth, were
not the men to play fast and loose with the Word of God, in deference to a supposed popular
sentiment.

Further, our critical friends have assumed to decide for the prophets that they must prophesy
out of their immediate surroundings in such a marked way, with such continued reference to
the events of the period, that the prophecy must be located in that period. If the critic cannot
find these particular local earmarks, he must push the prophecy to a point of time with which
he can make it synchronize, and which will satisfy his literary judgment. By this law of determining
dates, the critics claim that the book of Isaiah is a composite work, produced by different
authors and at different times.

On this assumption the latter part of the book of Revelation was not a revelation to the Apostle
John on the Isle of Patmos. The first part of the book may be adjudged as his. But presently
the matter of the book passes into a realm beyond the time and circumstances that belong to
that period, hence may not claim him as its author. An assumption that sets aside the claims
of Scripture, as to authorship, in order to harmonize the book with one's literary and critical
judgment, may be dismissed on its own lack of merit.

The proposed law above referred to, as a method of locating prophecy as to time, or determining
the author, is arbitrary, and an absurd attempt to destroy all the testimony of inspired writers,
who have settled the question of authorship and the date of prophecy.

VIII. THE HISTORICITY OF THE BOOK OF JONAH. 2 Kings xiv. 25. Jonah i. 1, 2.

"So Jonah arose and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of the Lord." Jonah iii.. 3.

"And he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown." Jonah iii. 4.

"So the people of Nineveh believed God." Jonah iii. 5.

"And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and God repented of the evil
that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not." Jonah iii. 10.

"The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it, because
they repented at the preaching of Jonas." Matt. xii. 41.

The book of Jonah has been attacked by the destructive critics. Its historicity has been denied.
The critics, though certain of almost all of their objections to the Bible, have not all decided
whether it is "based on history, or is a nature myth." Keunen has discovered (?) that it is
"a product of the opposition to the strict and exclusive policy of Ezra toward heathen nations."
Objection is made to the historical statements of the book on various grounds. The objector
interposes this difficulty: "Can we conceive of a heathen city being converted by an obscure
foreign prophet?"

This objection is of kin to that which can not conceive that by a creative act of God the universe
was brought into being, or the inspired statement that "the worlds were framed by the word
of God." It is the presence of the supernatural everywhere that is beyond the conception of
the critics.

Again, they interpose the difficulty: "How could the Ninevites give credence to a man who was
not a servant of Ashur?"

Without presenting the multiplied difficulties that rationalism has supposedly discovered,
they may be summed up in their statement substantially, that the book of Jonah is not historical.
Whatever else it may be, whether legend, myth or allegory, it is not history.

We turn again from the fancies of "Expert Scholarship" to the testimony of the Bible concerning
itself. We discover that the prophet Jonah is referred to several hundred years before the
critics have permitted him to live. It is written in 2 Kings xiv.

The name of Jonah, of his family, and the place of residence of his family, are definitely
stated. The work is accomplished "by the hand of his servant Jonah," and the date of its accomplishment,
is so precisely recorded that these statements could have been disproved had they been false.
Hence, there was a person named Jonah.

Our Lord has settled the questions of the personality and work of Jonah, if anything can be
settled for unbelief. He has affirmed the historical certainty of the two important events
which critical assumption declares impossible. The critical Jews were demanding a sign from
our Lord. He had wrought many miracles, but they wanted something beyond what he had given,
a miracle for their special benefit. He declined to gratify them. Of that generation he said:
"There shall no sign be given it, but the sign of the prophet Jonah. (Matt. xii. 39-41.) As
Jonah was miraculously preserved for three days and nights and was brought forth, as by a resurrection,
so was the Son of man to be brought forth from the tomb. His resurrection was to be the crowning
miracle, the sign forever confronting his nation, Jonah's deliverance from apparent death was
such a miracle as convinced the Ninevites that he had a message from God for them, so Christ's
resurrection was to become the keystone of the arch on which the whole structure of the redemptive
system should rest. "He was raised for our justification." (Rom. iv. 25.)

The reader will mark that our Lord referred to the miraculous preservation of Jonah, and his
deliverance, as a historical event, recorded in the first and second chapters of the book of
Jonah, not as a myth or allegory, but as a historical fact. As the one, so the other. As certainly
and literally the one, so certainly and literally the other. If Jonah's preservation and coming
forth from the fish that God had prepared was only a legend, then was Christ's death, burial,
and resurrection a legend. And in consistency with their critical theory some of the rationalists
have reduced them both to legend. For as one was, so was the other to be. The statement is
plain, definite narrative, from which there is no escape.

Others of the critical school hold to the historical verity of Christ's burial and resurrection,
but assert that he made use of the assumed legend concerning Jonah, as we might illustrate
any fact in history by a familiar statement from fiction. To such an assumption we reply that
our Lord was dealing with tremendous realities, such as could not be belittled by turning for
support or illustration to a fictitious story. He quoted from Old Testament history to illustrate
and enforce New Testament truth. Shall we hand over to legendary literature the great historical
fact of the twenty-first chapter of Numbers--God's deliverance of the people from the fiery
serpents--by one look at the uplifted brazen serpent by the hand of Moses? We may as well reduce
one passage to fiction as the other. "As Jonah ... three days and nights, so the Son of man.
As the serpent was lifted up, so the Son of man shall be lifted up." This comparison has a
definite meaning. The apostle uses it in his Epistle to the Romans, fifth chapter and twelfth
verse. "As by one man sin entered into the world, ... so death passed upon all men for that
all have sinned." As certainly as sin entered into the world by one man, so certainly it resulted
that death passed upon all men. As Christ's remaining in the grave three days was not a fiction,
so Jonah's three days and nights in the great fish that God had prepared was not a fiction.

Our Lord further certifies to the historicity of the book of Jonah by his reference to the
great prophet's preaching. If they can eliminate the divine power from that event, they can
easily hand the whole record over to what they are pleased to call the "folk lore of the Bible."
Here, as ever, the critic must rid the Scriptures of the supernatural.

But our Savior knew that "power belongeth unto God" (Psa. lxii. (Matt. xii. 41.) But if the
book is not history, our Lord's statement is false, for he says the Ninevites did repent.

There is no rational possibility of denying our Lord's positive statement without impeaching
his veracity.

His words authorize the following conclusions:

I. There was a prophet whose name was Jonah, as is stated in 2 Kings xiv. 25. He was not a
myth or figment, but a prophet whose personality is authenticated by Christ himself.

2. There was a city of Nineveh. The skepticism of other days denied the existence of Nineveh.
So completely was the prophecy concerning the destruction of Nineveh fulfilled that the enemies
of God's Word refused to believe that the city had ever existed, until the excavations of the
last century revealed the hidden ruins. But the word of God was true, and in God's time Nineveh
was revealed.

3. God sent this same prophet Jonah to Nineveh to preach. Christ tells us what took place under
"the preaching of Jonah." It terminated in a great awakening and reformation for:

4. "The men of Nineveh ... repented at the preaching of Jonah."

Did the Savior know what he was talking about? Did he know the truth of the statement he made?
Or, knowing (as is assumed) that there were no such events, did he resort to fiction in order
to assert the certainty of his own resurrection?

Our Sunday-school teachers, with the words of Christ before them, will be able to give the
critics important information. They can report the certainty of the historical facts.

IX. RADICAL EXPOSITION. (R.V.) 2 Peter ii. 1. 1 Tim. vi. 20, 21.

"Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them." 1 Tim. iv. 16.

The destructive critics have pushed their work far into the field of both prophecy and exposition.
They have relegated to the domain of mythology the clear and unequivocal historical statements
of Scripture. Where the intrusion of their mythological theory was too large a demand to make
on our credulity, they have attempted a radical exegesis in proof of their assumptions.

They claim to have discovered that the Church in all the past has misconceived the first prophetic
promise given to man. That promise was given to our first parents immediately after the fall.
God said to the serpent (Gen. iii.

Our critics have two objections to the interpretation that has always been given and maintained
by Christian scholars and by the Church as a whole. First, that "the seed of the woman" does
not refer to the Messiah, but to the human race, which is to bruise the serpent's head. Second,
that the serpent engaged in seducing Eve, and here placed under the curse, does not refer to Satan.

In replying to the objection that the Messiah is not referred to in the passage, let it be
said that the pronoun is a pronoun referring to a person. It is so translated in the Revised
Version. "He shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel." It is not the human race,
but he, an individual person. This person was not to be the seed of the man, but of the woman.

We are not left, however, to an exegetical statement alone, although that is absolutely unequivocal.
The promise was repeated to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob, and to David. The seed of the woman
was to be the Messiah, the Christ, triumphing over the power of Satan. The race has not triumphed
over Satan, but has been a failure. On the human side, our Savior was of the line of Abraham,
and David, but was singularly and literally "the seed of the woman," being the Son of God.

He called himself the Son of man only in the sense that he was born of her who was of the race
of man. He ever claimed God as his Father, and in a different sense from that in which men
can claim God as Father. His claim to be the Son of God was the claim to be equal with God,
which no created being dare make.

The Holy Spirit further declares, in Hebrews ii. 14; "For as much then as the children are
partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same, that through
death (his death on the cross) he might destroy him (Satan) that had the power of death"--"bruise
the serpent's head." It was Satan that inflicted death. He was the first higher critic who
changed and denied the word of God, saying to the woman, "Ye shall not die." Through his denial
of the word of God, he deceived the woman and brought spiritual death on the race. This was
the work of Satan, according to the New Testament teaching. He is the same that God calls the
serpent in the third chapter of Genesis. For the Holy Spirit informs us, in 2 Cor. xi. 3, that
"the serpent beguiled Eve," and states definitely who the serpent is--"that old serpent called
the devil and Satan, who deceiveth the whole world." (Rev. xii. 9.)

Having God's testimony that the serpent and the devil are one and the same, we are prepared
for the mark which our Lord puts on him, "A murderer from the beginning ... and no truth in
him." He had always sought to pervert and discredit the word of God. He suggested to Eve that
she did not understand God's command; she had taken it too literally, which is a popular form
of attacking the Bible today. "Yea, hath God said ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?"
Are you not mistaken? And when he had injected the doubt into the mind of Eve, had gained an
advantage, he seized it and boldly denied the word of God, "Ye shall not die." He is an artful
critic and successfully did his deadly work.

Hence, the first great promise which God gave to the fallen pair, and through them to the race,
set the seed of the woman, the Messiah, in conflict with "that old serpent called the devil
and Satan."

X. GOD HIS OWN INTERPRETER.

"Thy law is the truth." Psa. cxix. 142.

"Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful." Psa. cxix. 138.

"Lead me in thy truth and teach me." Psa. xxv. 5.

"The word of our God shall stand forever." Isaiah xl. 8.

"Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away." Mark xiii. 31.

The destructive critics have assaulted the most precious prophetic scriptures. It has been
already stated that the final aim of skepticism is against the person of Christ. If the unbelieving
world can be rid of both the prophecies concerning Christ, and the history of his life, his
sacrificial death and resurrection, they will be rid of that stumbling stone which they have
been pleased to call the "much-abused supernaturalism." Hence, the strenuous effort is made
to destroy predictive prophecy concerning the person of the Son of God. The fact that there
are more than thirty-five prophecies, containing one hundred and thirty distinct counts, concerning
the birth, the life, the teaching, the death, and the resurrection of our Lord, greatly disturbs
the critics.

The prophecy of Isaiah ix. 6 has been troublesome.

A critic who claims to be loyal to the word of God says concerning this passage: "The prophet
always paints upon the canvas the events of the near future. I can not believe that Isaiah
ix. 6 refers to a far-off event, because it would not give comfort to his people at that time."
As this prophecy was given more than seven hundred years before the coming of the Messiah,
our critic concludes that it could be of no practical benefit to Israel, hence, must have referred
to some person who must soon appear.

To affirm that this promise of the Messiah long before his coming "would not give comfort to
his people" is mere assumption. The time of his coming was not announced, and the people were
to live in expectation of the event, which expectation was to be their stay and comfort. This
assumption would vitiate the promise of his coming made to our first parents. Gen. iii. 15,
the promises made to Moses; Deut xviii. 15, the predictions made in Psa. xxii. 1, 8, 16, 18,
in which his cry on the cross, the taunt of his enemies, the piercing of his hands and feet,
and the parting of his raiment among the soldiers, were all predicted. (Micah v. 2) was made
seven hundred years before the coming of Christ, and, according to critical assumption, could
not refer to our Savior, "because it would not give comfort to his people."

Indeed, no prophecy preceding the time of Isaiah ix. 6 could be allowed to refer to Christ,
on the assumption of the critic. More than this, the prediction of Christ's second advent is
vitiated by this assumption. It was more than eighteen hundred years ago that the angels said
to the disciples who were steadfastly watching his ascension: "This same Jesus who is taken
from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven." Was
there no comfort to the disciples in the promise of his return, though they did not live to
witness it? Paul, enlarging on the promises of Christ's return, said to the Thessalonians:
"Wherefore comfort one another with these words."

Let us now consider the prophecy in its context. The prophecy of the seventh and eighth chapters
is projected on through the ninth. The first verse of this chapter predicts some relief of
the former sufferings of the people for their sins.

"The people that walked in darkness (verse 2) have seen great light." The prophet informs us
who it was, to whom this light should come. The inhabitants of "the land of Zabulon and the
land of Nephthalim," which embraced the region of Galilee, in which the larger portion of Christ's
ministry was exercised. Matthew quotes this scripture as fulfilled by the coming of our Savior.
(See Matt. iv.

Undoubtedly the prophet looked into the future, when the coming of the Messiah should bring
the light of the gospel into that region so particularly described by him. And the inspired
writer of the gospel of Matthew positively applies the context of Isaiah ix. 6 to our Lord.

The reader may well investigate the language of this prediction, "for unto us a Child is born."
The "for" is given as an explanation, a reason for the coming light to "Galilee of the Gentiles,"
a region and a people that had been for generations "in the shadow of death." The light was
to break forth because a child was to be born and a son given.

The announcement was made as if the event had taken place, though so far in the future. This
is in accordance with the form of predictive prophecy, as in the fifty-third chapter of Isaiah,
where the atoning work of Christ is spoken of as already accomplished, though it remained to
be achieved in the future. So it is stated in this prophecy: "For unto us a Child is born,
unto us a Son is given," for the promise of God is the same to him as the fulfillment. His
word is equivalent to his deed. It cost him as much to purpose and pledge as to fulfill his
pledge. Hence, the prophecy speaks of the thing as done, since God has promised to do it. Seven
centuries before he came, the prophet said, "unto us a Child is born, unto us a Son is given."

Our critical friends can not inform us who was the "Son given." They can only say it must refer
to some "near future event." Let our Book speak for itself. It gives no uncertain testimony.

1. "The government shall be upon his shoulder."

As already stated in the context, and affirmed by Matthew, it is he that should bring light
to the Gentiles. There is only one who is himself "a light to lighten the Gentiles and the
glory of thy people Israel." (Luke ii. 32.) He said of himself: "I am the light of the world."
(John ix. 5.)

The government is his. He is the "Only Potentate, the King of kings and Lord of lords." (1
Tim. vi. 15.)

There is only One Potentate, One Ruler, One who could say, "All power is given unto me in heaven
and in earth." (Matt. xxviii. 18.) There is only One who could say, "All things are delivered
unto me of my father." (Matt. xi. 27.) There is only One of whom it could be said, "Of the
increase of his government and peace there shall be no end," and that is said of the "Child
born unto us and the Son given," and is a part of the prophecy concerning him. (Isaiah ix. 7.)

All earthly thrones have crumbled, all earthly kings and potentates have slept in the dust
of death with the poorest of their subjects. 14.)

2. "His name shall be called Wonderful."

His name means his character, his person. He, himself, shall be called Wonderful, in a sense
in which no other person can be entitled to that designation. Nicodemus accredited him as a
wonderful instructor. His enemies that were sent to arrest him quailed before him, and returned
to the chief priests and Pharisees, saying, "Never man spake like this man."

A devout scholar has well said: "The manner of his birth was wonderful; his humility, self-denial,
and sorrows were wonderful; his mighty works were wonderful; his dying agonies were wonderful;
his resurrection and ascension were all fitted to excite admiration and wonder."

3. "His name shall be called ... Counsellor."

This term plainly indicated his exalted wisdom and dignity. The wisdom of men comes to naught;
their counsel shall perish with them. But there is One, who understands, who declares the end
from the beginning. Of him it is said: "The counsel of the Lord standeth forever; the thoughts
of his heart to all generations." (Psa. xxxiii. 11.) He says of himself, "Counsel is mine and
sound wisdom" (Prov. viii. 14), and it was by his "determinate counsel and foreknowledge" that
the glorious scheme of redemption and complete salvation from sin was planned and executed.
Hence, he takes to himself the title, "The Great and Mighty God, ... great in counsel, and
mighty in work." (Jer. xxxii. 19.) Therefore, the Child that was to be born, the Son that was
to be given, was to have a name, and "his name shall be called ... Counsellor."

4. "His name shall be called ... The Mighty God."

And now we are face to face with the Lord Jehovah, and the positive statement that this was
the promised Son. By what guessing or critical legerdemain one who claims loyalty to the word
of God and ordinary intelligence can attempt to sweep away these definite and determinate statements,
and crowd some insignificant worm of the dust into the place given to him who was in the beginning,
who was with God and who was God, we can not comprehend.

And still the prophet rises to the climax, to make sure that "wayfaring men, though fools,
shall not err," and adds the prediction concerning the coming Son that,

5. "His name shall be called ... The Everlasting Father."

The Revised Version gives the same rendering as the accepted version, and adds the marginal
reading, "Father of Eternity." The sense of the passage is the same. The name "Everlasting
Father" was the name of the coming Son. He would be Wonderful, Counsellor, The Mighty God,
not for a short time, but eternally, forever and ever--"the same yesterday, to-day, and forever."
His care of his people would never cease.

The distinctions between the persons of the trinity were not made in the Old Testament, as
in the New. Jehovah was God, the Lord was God, and was known as Jehovah God, the Everlasting
Father. The incarnation of the second person in the trinity gave emphasis to his sonship, in
order to put him in brotherly relation to us. "Wherefore he is not ashamed to call them brethren."

This prophecy of Isaiah, however, condescends to accommodate our weakness, and necessity, and
gives to the promised child the name by which he is recognized in the New Testament, for

6. "His name shall be called ... The Prince of Peace." (Luke ii. (Acts v. 31.)

Isaiah spoke as he was moved by the Holy Spirit. He gave to Israel this assuring promise for
their comfort, that the Seed of the woman, the Messiah, was coming not as a fallible, impotent
ruler, but as a Prince and Savior. Israel failed to comprehend the glorious things predicted,
and even yet they are not fully unfolded. But the Messiah did not fail to come, and, as predicted,
he came at Bethlehem. Every phase of his life, and the mighty work of redemption, all that
was predicted of his earthly career, has been accomplished. And now, at the right hand of the
Father, he is moving to the final consummation of his purposes of redeeming grace.

He will not be moved from his purposes by the uncritical attempts of rationalism to destroy
the confidence of God's people in his revealed truth. We can move forward confidently in our
work, knowing that nothing shall pass from his Word until all is fulfilled.

In this very brief study, in which God has spoken through the testimony of his word, we have
only touched a few points in which the truth of Scripture has been assailed. But the testimony
of the Book settles all questions. We can well rest on the assurance, "Forever O Lord, thy
word is settled in heaven," and can not be unsettled on the earth. Our Sunday-school teachers
and Christian young people can not fail to comprehend, and will rejoice in the fullness and
power of God's testimony through prophet, apostle, and Christ the incarnate Word. To him be
honor, glory, and dominion forever. Amen.

