The vicinity of Lima is occasionally infested by banditti, carrying on their operations in
open day with so much system, that all who chance to travel at that time are sure to be relieved
of their valuables. These robbers are composed chiefly of free mulattoes and others of a mixed
race. The evil has existed from time immemorial, and is of purely Spanish origin; for Indian
honesty, in retired villages, is so great, that when a family for a time leaves its cage-like
hut, the latchless wicket is left ajar; a brush is placed on the sill, and it would be worse
than sacrilege for any one to cross the threshold under any pretence. It has happened that
the brigands, well armed and well mounted, have assembled at distant and uncertain periods
within a mile of Callao. They direct their course towards Lima, stop all whom they meet, and
having very civilly lightened them of their purses, oblige the plundered persons to accompany
the robbers, till all arrive near to the city gate, when the banditti disperse. Some ride boldly
into the town; many conceal themselves in the thickets of canes; whilst others cut across the
country, and return quietly to their homes, to enjoy the spoil, or follow their usual occupations.
The banditti, on such extraordinary occasions, amount to twenty or thirty in number; and it
has happened that they have had about twenty carriages, besides persons dismounted and made
to lead their own horses, in the train, which was regularly brought up by a rear-guard, while
the advanced scouts pushed on to secure fresh booty. They seldom commit murder; and whenever
it is possible, they avoid robbing officers of the army, or civilians in the employment of
government. Neither do they, when acting in small parties, attack persons of note. Foreigners
and strangers are in general their usual victims.--Memoir of General Miller.

       *       *       *       *       *

STEALING A SHEET.

A bet was laid by a gentleman that he would procure an Indian thief who should steal the sheet
from under a person without waking him. The thing was effected in the following manner:--the
Bheel approaching the person, who lay on his side, from behind, carefully folded up the sheet
in small compact plaits till it reached his back; then, taking a feather, he tickled the nose
of the sleeper, who immediately scratched his face and rolled over on the other side, when
with a slight effort he completely released the sheet, and bore it off in triumph.--Twelve
Years' Military Adventures.

       *       *       *       *       *

EDUCATION AND AMUSEMENTS OF THE LOWER CLASSES.

A correspondent of the Gardener's Magazine observes that "next to the existing school societies,
there is nothing I am more anxious to see, or would more gladly contribute to, than a Society
for promoting the Rational Amusements of the Lower Classes, the first aim of which should be
to instruct itinerant teachers of music, singing, and dancing, in improved modes of imparting
their arts, and thus fairly set the plan agoing, when it would soon work its own way, and might
then be extended to higher objects. The taste for flowers among the Paisley weavers, for gooseberry-growing
at Manchester, and for music among the west of Yorkshire clothiers, originally sprang up from
imitation of one or two amateurs of each pursuit; and there only needs a similar first impulse,
which a society with a few thousands a year might give, to spread a general taste for music,
singing, and dancing, and ultimately for other branches of the fine arts, as drawing and painting,
as well as for natural history, and the cultivation of flowers and fruits, &c.

