"No, no, my son, you must do nothing of the kind," said Richard leaning his cheek wearily against
Oliver's hand, as if for warmth and protection, but still looking into the fire. "It would
not be right to take from him what he has honestly earned. The lifting  power of his machine
is four times my own, and the adjustment of the levers much simpler. He has only accomplished
what I failed to do. I am not quite sure but I think he uses the same arrangement of levers
that I do, but everything else is his. Such a man is to be helped, not worried with lawsuits.
No, my son, I must bear it as best I may. Your poor mother!" He stopped suddenly and passed
his hand over his eyes, and in a broken, halting voice, added: "I've tried so hard to make
her old age happier. I fear for the result when the news reaches her. And you and this poor
girl!"--and he reached out his hand to Margaret--"this is the part that is hardest to bear."

Oliver disengaged his arm from his father's neck and walked up and down the room, Madge watching
him. His mind was searching about for some way to stem the tide of disaster. Every movement
of his body expressing his determination. He was not thinking of himself. He saw only Madge
and his mother. Then he turned again and faced his father.

"Will you let me try?" he urged in a firm voice.

"No, Oliver! Positively no."

As he spoke he straightened himself in his chair and turned toward Oliver. His voice had regained
something of its old-time ring and force. "To rob a man of the work of his brain is worse than
to take his purse. You will agree with me, I know, when you think it over. Mr. Gorton had never
heard of my invention  when he perfected his, nor had I ever heard of his when I perfected
mine. He is taking nothing from me; how can I take anything from him! Give me your hand my
son; I am not feeling very well." His voice fell again as if the effort had been too much for
him. "I think I will go back to the hotel. A night's rest will do me good."

He rose slowly from his chair, steadied himself by holding to Oliver's strong arm, stood for
an instant  looking into Margaret's eyes, and said, with infinite tenderness:

"Come close; my daughter, and kiss me."

She put her arms about him, cuddling her head against his soft cheek, smoothing his gray hair
with her palm.

"My child," he said, "you have been a delight and joy to me. A woman like you is beyond price.
I thank you from the bottom of my heart for loving my son."

With something of his old manner he again straightened himself up, threw his shoulders back
as if strengthened by some new determination, walked firmly across the room, and picked up
his cloak. As he stood waiting for Oliver to place it about his shoulders, he put his hand
to his side, with a quick movement, as if smitten by some sudden pain, staggered backward,
his head upon his breast, and would have sunk to the floor but for Oliver's hand. Margaret
sprang forward and caught his other arm.

"It's nothing, my son," he said, between his gasps for breath, holding on to Oliver. "A sudden
giddiness. I'm often subject to it. I, perhaps, got up too quickly. It will pass over. Let
me sit down for a moment."

Half supporting him, Oliver put his arm about his father and laid him on the lounge.

As Richard's head touched the cushion that Margaret  had made ready, he gave a quick gasp,
half rose as if to breathe the better, and fell back  unconscious.

When the doctor arrived Richard was lying on Margaret's bed, where Oliver had carried him,
he had rallied a little, and had then sunk into a deep sleep. Margaret sat beside him, watching
every breath he drew, the scalding tears streaming down her face.

The physician bent closer and pressed his ear to the sleeping man's breast

"Has he been subject to these attacks?" he said, in a grave tone.

"I know of only one some years ago, the year the war broke out, but he recovered then very
quickly," answered Oliver.

"Is your mother living!"

"Yes."

"Better send her word at once."

CHAPTER XXV

SMOULDERING COALS

The night wind sighed through the old sycamores of Kennedy Square. A soft haze, the harbinger
of the coming spring, filled the air. The cold moon, hanging low, bleached the deserted steps
of the silent houses to a ghostly white.

In the Horn mansion a dim light burned in Richard's  room and another in the lower hall. Everywhere
else the house was dark.

Across the Square, in Miss Clendenning's boudoir,  a small wood fire, tempering the chill of
the April night, slumbered in its bed of ashes, or awakened  with fitful starts, its restless
blaze illumining the troubled face of Margaret Grant. The girl's eyes were fixed on the dying
coals, her chin in her hand, the brown-gold of her wonderful hair gold-red in the firelight.
Now and then she would lift her head as if listening for some approaching footstep. Miss Clendenning
sat beside her, leaning over the hearth in her favorite attitude, her tiny feet resting on
the fender.

The years had touched the little lady but lightly since that night when she sat in this same
spot and Oliver had poured out his heart to her. She was the same dainty, precise, lovable
old maid that she had been in the old days of Kennedy Square, when the crocuses bloomed in
the flower-beds and its drawing-rooms were filled with the wit and fashion of the day. Since
that fatal night when Richard had laid away his violin and brother had been divided against
brother, and Kennedy Square had become the stamping ground of armed men, she had watched by
the bedsides of a thousand wounded soldiers, regardless  of which flag they had battled under.
The service had not withered her. Time had simply stood still, forgetting the sum of its years,
while it marked her with perennial sweetness.

"I'm afraid he's worse," Margaret said, breaking the silence of the room, as she turned to
Miss Clendenning,  "or Ollie would have been here before this. Dr. Wallace was to go to the
house at eleven, and now it is nearly twelve."

"The doctor may have been detained," Miss Clendenning  answered. "There is much sickness in town."

For a time neither spoke. Only the low muttering  of the fire could be heard, or the turning
of some restless coal.

"Margaret," Miss Clendenning said at last--it had always been "Margaret" with the little lady
ever since the day she had promised Oliver to love the woman whom he loved; and it was still
"Margaret"  when the women met for the first time in the gray dawn at the station and Miss
Clendenning herself helped lead Richard out of the train-- "There is a bright side to every
trouble. But for this illness you would never have known Oliver's mother as she really is.
All her prejudices melted away as soon as she looked into your face. She loves you better every
day, and she is learning to depend on you just as Richard and Oliver have done."

"I hope she will," the young woman answered, without moving. "It breaks my heart to see her
suffer as she does. I see my own mother in her so often. She is different in many ways, but
she is the same underneath--so gentle and so kind, and she is so big and broad-minded too.
I am ashamed to think of all the bitter feelings I used to have in my heart toward her."

She stopped abruptly, her hands tightly folded in her lap, her shoulders straightened. Margaret's
confessions were always made in this determined way, head thrown back like a soldier's, as
though a new resolve had been born even while an old sin was being confessed.

"Go on," said Miss Clendenning. "I understand.  You mean that you did not know her."

"No; but I thought her narrow and proud, and that she disliked me for influencing Oliver in
his art, and that she wanted to keep him from me and from my ideals. Oh, I've been very, very
wicked!"

"Not wicked, my dear--only human. You are not the first woman who did not want to divide a
love with a mother."

"But it wasn't exactly that, dear Cousin Lavinia. I had never met anyone who obeyed his mother
as Ollie did, and--and--I almost hated her for being his guide and counsel when--oh, not because
she did not love him too, just as I did--but because I thought that I could really help him
most--because I believed in his talent and she did not, and because I knew all the time that
she was ruining him, keeping  him back, spoiling his career, and--"

Again she stopped and straightened herself, her beautiful head held higher. Those who knew
Margaret  well would have known that the worst part of her confession was yet to come.

"I suppose I was hurt too," she said, slowly accentuating  each pause with a slight movement
of the head. "That I was LITTLE enough and MEAN enough and HORRID enough for that. But he was
always talking  of his mother as though she never did anything but sit still in that white
shawl of hers, listening to music, while everybody waited on her and came to her for advice.
And I always thought that she couldn't understand me nor any other woman who wanted to work.
When Ollie talked of you all, and of what you did at home, I couldn't help feeling she must
think that I and all my people belonged to some different race and that when she saw me she
would judge me by some petty thing that displeased her, the cut of my skirt, or the way I carried
my hands, or something else equally trivial, and that she would use that kind of thing against
me and, perhaps, tell Ollie, too. Father judged Oliver in that way. He thought that Ollie's
joyousness and his courtesy, even his way of taking off his hat, and holding it in his two
hands for a moment--you've seen him do it a hundred times--was only a proof of his Southern
shiftlessness--caring more for manners than for work. Mother didn't; she understood Ollie better,
and so did John, but father never could. That's why I wouldn't come when you asked me. You
wouldn't have judged me, I know, but I thought that she would. And now--oh, I'm so sorry I
could cry."

"It was only another of the mistakes and misunderstandings  that divided us all at that time,
my dear," Miss Clendenning answered. "This dreadful war could have been averted, if people
had only come together and understood each other. I did not think so then, but I do now."

"And you don't think me wicked, Cousin Lavinia?"  Margaret asked with a sudden relaxation of
her figure and something infinitely childlike and  appealing in her tone. "You really don't
think me wicked, do you?"

"Not wicked, dear; only human, as I said a moment  ago. Yet you have been stronger than I.
You have held on and won; I let go and lost."

Margaret bent forward and laid her finger on Miss Clendenning's knee.

"Lost what, Cousin Lavinia?" she asked, in surprise.

"My lover."

"When?"

"When I was just your age."

"Did he die?" asked Margaret in awed tones, overcome all at once with the solemnity of the
hour and a strange new note in Miss Lavinia's voice.

"No, he married someone else."

"He never--never loved you, then." There was a positiveness now in her intonations.

"Yes, he did, with all his heart. His mother came between us."

Again silence fell on the room. Margaret would not look at Miss Clendenning. The little old
maid had suddenly opened the windows of her heart, but whether to let a long-caged sorrow out
or some friendly sympathy in, she could not tell.

"May I know about it!" There was a softer cadence now in the girl's voice.

"It would only make you unhappy, dear. It was all over forty years or more ago. Sallie, when
she saw you, put her arms about you. You had only to come together. The oftener she sees you,
the more she will love you. My lover's mother shut the door in my face."

