A CANADIAN MANOR AND ITS SEIGNEURS

THE STORY OF A HUNDRED YEARS 1761-1861

BY

GEORGE M. WRONG, M.A. PROFESSOR OF HISTORY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO

WITH ILLUSTRATIONS

TORONTO THE BRYANT PRESS, LIMITED 1908

COPYRIGHT, CANADA, 1908 BY GEORGE M. WRONG

PREFACE

In spite of many pleasant summers spent at Murray Bay one had never thought of it as having
a history. The place and its people seemed simple, untutored, new. Some of the other summer
residents talked complacently even of having discovered it. They had heard of Murray Bay as
beautiful and had gone to explore this unknown country. When this bold feat was performed there
was abundant recompense. Valley, mountain, river and stream united to make Murray Bay delightful.
The little summer community grew. At first visitors lived in the few primitive hotels or in
cottages at Pointe au Pic, vacated for the time being by their owners, who found temporary
lodgings somewhere,--not infrequently in their own out-buildings. The cottages left something
to be desired, and, gradually, the visitors bought land and built houses for themselves: to-day
dozens of them dot the western shore of Murray Bay. In due time appeared tennis courts; then
a golf links. Murray Bay had become, alas, almost fashionable.

It still seemed to have no past. True, near the village church, a fair-sized house stood, embowered
in trees, with a fine view out over the bay and the wide St. Lawrence. A high fence shut in
a beautiful old garden, with a few great trees: as one drove past one got a glimpse of shady
walks and old-fashioned flowers. The extensive out-buildings near this manor house, stables,
carriage-house, dairy, showed that the establishment was fairly large. There were sleek cattle
in the farm yard. On one of the out-buildings was a small belfry, with a bell to summon the
work-people from afar to meals, and this seemed like the olden times when the seigneur fed
his labourers under his own roof. On making a formal call at the manor house one noted that
some of the rooms were of fine proportions and that a good many old portraits and miniatures
hung on the walls. This all spoke of a past; and yet of it one asked little and knew nothing.

Just across the bay stood another manor house; of stone, too, in this case not concealed by
a covering of wood. Thick walls crowned by a mansard roof spoke of a respectable age. This
manor house, also looked out on the bay and across the St. Lawrence. One knew that it was named
Mount Murray Manor, while that on the right bank of the river Murray was called Murray Bay
Manor. It was said vaguely that a Colonel Fraser had dwelt at Mount Murray and a Colonel Nairne
at Murray Bay; but all that one heard was loose tradition and there were no Nairnes or Frasers
of whom one might ask questions. One could see that, in both places, something like an old
world dignity of life had in the past been kept up.

Making a call at the Murray Bay Manor House, I was told one day of a manuscript volume in which
the first seigneur had copied some of his letters. I begged to be allowed to spend an afternoon
or two in looking through it. I went and went again. To me the book was absorbing. It told
the story of the first people of British origin who went to settle at Malbaie, which they named
Murray Bay, just after the British conquest; of the career of a soldier brother of Colonel
Nairne who died in India not long after Plassey; of campaigns fought by Colonel Nairne during
the period of the American Revolution; of his plans and hopes as the ruler of the little community
where he settled. When I had read the book through, I asked if there was not something more.
Yes, there were some old letters, preserved in a lumber room at the top of the house. These
I was allowed to see. This task, too, was of great interest and I spent the better part of
a summer holiday reading, analyzing, and copying letters. Some of them told of the schoolboy
days, in Edinburgh, of the old Colonel's son and heir, the second seigneur, of this son's life
at Gibraltar at the time when Trafalgar was fought, of his return to Canada, of campaigns in
the war of 1812. Then there were touching letters from others to tell how he fell at the battle
of Crysler's Farm. So intimate were the letters that one experienced again the hopes and fears
of more than a century ago. In time, out of the dimness in which all had been shrouded, Murray
Bay's history became clear. Of course one had to seek some information elsewhere, especially
in attempting an analysis of French Canadian village life. But the story told in this volume
is based chiefly on the papers read during that holiday. Not only did they enable one to reconstruct
the story of a spot made almost sacred by the joys of many a delightful summer; they furnished,
besides, an outline of the tragic history of a Canadian family. Here at Murray Bay, a century
and a half ago, a brave and distinguished British officer secured a great estate and made his
home. In his letters we read almost from day to day of his plans. He had a strong heart and
a deep faith. He reared a large family and built not merely for himself but for his posterity.
And yet, just one hundred years after he began his work at Murray Bay, the last of his descendants
was laid in the grave and the family became extinct. It is the fashion of our modern fiction
to end the tale in sorrow not in joy. Perhaps the fashion has a more real basis in fact than
we like to think. At any rate this true story of the seigneur of Murray Bay ends with the closed
record of his family history on a granite monument in Quebec. There is no one living for whom
the tale has the special interest that attaches to one's ancestors.

I have received help from many but my deepest obligation is to Mr. E.J. Duggan, the present
seigneur of Murray Bay, for his great kindness in permitting me to use the letters and papers
in the Manor House. I owe much to the Right Honourable Sir Charles Fitzpatrick, who has taught
me, in many holiday outings, most of what appreciation I have learned for French Canadian village
life, and has corrected errors into which I should otherwise have fallen. So also have Mr.
W.H. Blake, K.C., of Toronto, a good authority on all that concerns life at Murray Bay, and
M. J.-Edmond Roy, Assistant Archivist at Ottawa, whose "Histoire de la Seigneurie de Lauzon"
and many other works relating to the Province of Quebec entitle him to the rank of its foremost
historical scholar. To another authority on the seigniorial system in Canada, Professor W.
Bennett Munro, of Harvard University, I am much indebted for information readily given. My
colleagues Professor W.J. Alexander, Ph.D., of University College, and Professor Pelham Edgar,
Ph.D., of Victoria College, Toronto, have given me the benefit of their discriminating criticism.
Dr. A.G. Doughty, C.M.G., Dominion Archivist, and the Rev. Abbé A.E. Gosselin of Laval University,
have responded with unfailing courtesy to my numerous calls upon them, and Mr. John Fraser
Reeve, the great-grandson of Colonel Malcolm Fraser, who figures so prominently in the story,
has given me invaluable information about the Fraser family. Dr. J.M. Harper and M. P.-B. Casgrain,
of Quebec, and Mr. A.C. Casselman, of Toronto, have also aided me on some difficult points.
To the Honourable Edward Blake, K.C., of Toronto, I am indebted for reproductions of some of
his paintings of scenes at Murray Bay, and to the Honourable Dudley Murray, of London, England,
for a photograph of the portrait of General Murray preserved in the General's family.

Toronto, July, 1908.

CONTENTS

                                                            PAGE

CHAPTER I

THE FOUNDING OF MALBAIE

The situation of Malbaie.--The physical features of Malbaie.--Jacques Cartier at Malbaie.--Champlain
at Malbaie.--The first seigneur of Malbaie.--A new policy for settling Canada.--The Sieur de
Comporté, seigneur of Malbaie, sentenced to death in France.--His career in Canada.--His plans
for Malbaie.--Hazeur, Seigneur of Malbaie.--Malbaie becomes a King's Post.--A Jesuit's description
of Malbaie in 1750.--The burning of Malbaie by the British in 1759.                       
1

CHAPTER II

THE TWO HIGHLAND SEIGNEURS AT MALBAIE

Pitt's use of Highlanders in the Seven Years' War.--The origin of Fraser's Highlanders.--The
career of Lord Lovat.--Lovat's son Simon Fraser and other Frasers at Quebec.--Malcolm Fraser
and John Nairne future seigneurs of Malbaie.--The Highlanders and Wolfe's victory.--The Highlanders
in the winter of 1759-60.--Malcolm Fraser on Murray's defeat in April, 1760.--The return of
Canadian seigneurs to France.--General Murray buys Canadian seigniories.--Nairne and Fraser
at Malbaie.--Their grants from Murray.                                                  22

CHAPTER III

JOHN NAIRNE, SEIGNEUR OF MURRAY BAY

Colonel Nairne's portrait.--His letters.--The first Scottish settlers at Malbaie.--Nairne's
finance.--His tasks.--The curé's work.--The Scottish settlers and their French wives.--The
Church and Education.--Nairne's efforts to make Malbaie Protestant.--His war on idleness.--The
character of the habitant.--Fishing at Malbaie.--Trade at Malbaie.--Farming at Malbaie.--Nairne's
marriage,--Career and death in India of Robert Nairne.--The Quebec Act and its consequences
for the habitant.                                40

CHAPTER IV

JOHN NAIRNE IN THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION

Nairne's work among the French Canadians.--He becomes Major of the Royal Highland Emigrants.--Arnold's
march through the wilderness to Quebec.--Quebec during the Siege, 1775-76.--The habitants and
the Americans.--Montgomery's plans.--The assault on December 31st, 1775.--Malcolm Fraser gives
the alarm in Quebec.--Montgomery's death.--Arnold's attack.--Nairne's heroism.--Arnold's failure.--The
American fire-ship.--The arrival of a British fleet.--The retreat of the Americans.--Nairne's
later service in the War.--Isle aux Noix and Carleton Island.--Sir John Johnson and the desolation
of New York.--Nairne and the American prisoners at Murray Bay.--Their escape and capture.--Nairne
and the Loyalists.--The end of the War.--Nairne's retirement to Murray Bay.               
62

CHAPTER V

THE LAST DAYS OF JOHN NAIRNE

Nairne's careful education of his children.--His son John enters the army.--Nairne's counsels
to his son.--John Nairne goes to India.--His death.--Nairne's declining years.--His activities
at Murray Bay.--His income.--His daughter Christine and Quebec society.--The isolation of Murray
Bay in Winter.--Signals across the river.--Nairne's reading.--His notes about current events.--The
fear of a French invasion of England.--Thoughts of flight from Scotland to Murray Bay.--Nairne's
last letter, April 20th, 1802.--His death and burial at Quebec.                        93

CHAPTER VI

THOMAS NAIRNE, SEIGNEUR OF MURRAY BAY

His education in Scotland.--His winning character.--He enters the army.--Malcolm Fraser's counsels
to a young soldier.--Thomas Nairne's life at Gibraltar.--His desire to retire from the army.--His
return to Canada in 1810-11.--His life at Quebec.--His summer at Murray Bay, 1811.--His resolve
to remain in the Army.--Beginning of the War of 1812.--Captain Nairne on Lake Ontario.--Quebec
Society and the proposed flight from danger to Murray Bay.--Anxiety at Murray Bay.--The progress
of the War.--An American attack on Kingston.--Captain Nairne on the Niagara frontier.--Naval
War on Lake Ontario.--Nairne's description of a naval engagement.--Sense of impending disaster
at Murray Bay.--The American advance on Montreal by the St. Lawrence.--Nairne's regiment a
part of the opposing British force.--The Battle of Crysler's Farm.--Nairne's death.--His body
taken to Quebec.--The grief of the family at Murray Bay.--The funeral.                    
124

CHAPTER VII

A FRENCH CANADIAN VILLAGE

Life at Murray Bay after Captain Nairne's death.--Letters from Europe.--Death of Malcolm Fraser.--Death
of Colonel Nairne's widow and children.--His grandson John Nairne, seigneur.--Village Life.--The
Church's Influence.--The Habitant's tenacity.--His cottage.--His labours.--His amusements.--The
Church's missionary work in the Village.--The powers of the bishop.--His visitations.--The
organization of the Parish.--The powers of the fabrique.--Lay control of Church finance.--The
curés' tithe.--The best intellects enter the Church.--A native Canadian clergy.--The curé's
social life.--The Church and Temperance Reform.--The diligence of the curés.--The habitant's
taste for the supernatural.--The belief in goblins.--Prayer in the family.--The habitant as
voter.--The office of Churchwarden.--The Church's influence in elections.--The seigneur's position.--The
habitant's obligations to him.--Rent day and New Year's Day.--The seigneur's social rank.--The
growth of discontent in the villages.--The evils of Seigniorial Tenure.--Agitation against
the system.--Its abolition in 1854.--The last of the Nairnes.--The Nairne tomb in Quebec. 
168

CHAPTER VIII

THE COMING OF THE PLEASURE SEEKERS

Pleasure seeking at Murray Bay.--A fisherman's experience in 1830.--New visitors.--Fishing
in a mountain lake.--Camp life.--The Upper Murray.--Canoeing.--Running the rapids.--Walks and
drives.--Golf.--A rainy day.--The habitant and his visitors.                                   222

AUTHORITIES                                                  243

APPENDICES

APPENDIX A (p. 31)   The Journal of Malcolm Fraser,
                        First Seigneur of Mount Murray,
                        Malbaie.                             249

APPENDIX B (p. 38)   Title Deed of the Seigniory of
                        Murray Bay, granted to Captain
                        John Nairne.                         271

APPENDIX C (p. 78)   The Siege of Quebec in 1775-76.
                        Colonel Nairne's Narrative.          273

APPENDIX D (p. 98)   Memorandum of Colonel Nairne,
                        5th April, 1795, for his son
                        John Nairne in regard to
                        military duty.                       277

APPENDIX E (p. 104)  The "Porpoise" (Beluga or
                        White Whale) Fishery on the
                        St. Lawrence.                        279

APPENDIX F (p. 122)  The Prayer of Colonel Nairne.           286

APPENDIX G (p. 144)  The Curés of Malbaie.

If one is not in too great a hurry it is wise to take the steamer--not the train--at Quebec
and travel by it the eighty miles down the St. Lawrence to Malbaie, or Murray Bay, as the English
call it, somewhat arrogantly rejecting the old French name used since the pioneer days of Champlain.
This means an early morning start and six or seven hours--the steamers are not swift--on that
great river. Only less than a mile apart are its rugged banks at Quebec but, even then, they
seem to contract the mighty torrent of water flowing between them. Once past Quebec the river
broadens into a great basin, across which we see the head of the beautiful Island of Orleans.
We skirt, on the south side, the twenty miles of the island's well wooded shore, dotted with
the cottages of the habitants, stretched irregularly along the winding road. Church spires
rise at intervals; the people are Catholic to a man. Once past this island we begin to note
changes. Hardly any longer is the St. Lawrence a river; rather is it now an inlet of the sea;
the water has become salt; the air is fresher. So wide apart are the river's shores that the
cottages far away to the south seem only white specks.

Hugging the north shore closely we draw in under towering Cap Tourmente, fir-clad, rising nearly
two thousand feet above us; a mighty obstacle it has always been to communication by land on
this side of the river. Soon comes a great cleft in the mountains, and before us is Baie St.
Paul, opening up a wide vista to the interior. We are getting into the Malbaie country for
Isle aux Coudres, an island some six miles long, opposite Baie St. Paul, was formerly linked
with Malbaie under one missionary priest. The north shore continues high and rugged. After
passing Les Eboulements, a picturesque village, far above us on the mountain side, we round
Cap aux Oies, in English, unromantically, Goose Cape, and, far in front, lies a great headland,
sloping down to the river in bold curves. On this side of the headland we can see nestling
in under the cliff what, in the distance, seems only a tiny quay. It is the wharf of Malbaie.
The open water beyond it, stretching across to Cap à l'Aigle, marks the mouth of the bay. The
great river, now twelve miles broad, with a surging tide, rising sometimes eighteen or twenty
feet, has the strength and majesty almost of Old Ocean himself.

As we land we see nothing striking. There is just a long wharf with some cottages clustered
at the foot of the cliff. But when we have ascended the short stretch of winding road that
leads over the barrier of cliff we discover the real beauties of Malbaie. Before us lies the
bay's semi-circle--perhaps five miles in extent; stretching far inland is a broad valley, with
sides sloping up to rounded fir-clad mountain tops. It is the break in the mountains and the
views up the valley that give the place its peculiar beauty. When the tide is out the bay itself
is only a great stretch of brown sand, with many scattered boulders, and gleaming silver pools
of water. Looking down upon it, one sees a small river winding across the waste of sand and
rocks. It has risen in the far upland three thousand feet above this level and has made an
arduous downward way, now by narrow gorges, more rarely across open spaces, where it crawls
lazily in the summer sunlight:--les eaux mortes, the French Canadians call such stretches.
It bursts at length through the last barrier of mountains, a stream forty or fifty yards wide,
and flows noisily, for some ten miles, in successive rapids, down this valley, here at last
to mingle its brown waters with the ice-cold, steel-tinted, St. Lawrence.

When the tide is in, the bay becomes a shallow arm of the great river,--the sea, we call it.
The French are better off than we; they have the word "fleuve" for the St. Lawrence;--other
streams are "rivières." Almost daily, at high water, one may watch small schooners which carry
on the St. Lawrence trade head up the bay. They work in close to shore, drop their anchors
and wait for the tide to go out. It leaves them high and dry, and tilted sometimes at an angle
which suggests that everything within must be topsy-turvy, until the vessel is afloat again.
With a strong wind blowing from the north-east the bay is likely to be, at high tide, an extremely
lively place for the mariner; a fact which helps perhaps to explain the sinister French name
of Malbaie. The huge waves, coming with a sweep of many miles up the broad St. Lawrence, hurl
themselves on the west shore with surprising vehemence, and work destruction to anything not
well afloat in deep water, or beyond the highest of high water marks. At such a time how many
a hapless small craft, left incautiously too near the shore, has been hammered to pieces between
waves and rocks!

