Some of them kept themselves as upright as possible, swaying slightly like willows from the
hips, and some of them contorted themselves into strange and angular shapes, now leaning perilously
forward till they were practically lying upon their terrified partners, and now bending sideways
as a man bends who has water in one ear after bathing. All of them clutched each other in a
close and intimate manner, but some, as if by separation to intensify the joy of their union,
or perhaps to secure greater freedom for some particularly spacious manoeuvre, would part suddenly
in the middle of the room and, clinging distantly with their hands, execute a number of complicated
side-steps in opposite directions, or aim a series of vicious kicks at each other, after which
they would reunite in a passionate embrace and gallop in a frenzy round the room, or fall into
a trance or simply fall down. If they fell down they lay still for a moment in the fearful
expectation of death, as men lie who fall under a horse; and then they would creep on hands
and knees to the wall through the whirling and indifferent crowd.

Watching them, you could not tell what any one couple would do next. The most placid and dignified
among them might at any moment fling a leg out behind them and almost kneel in mutual adoration,
and then, as if nothing unusual had happened, shuffle onward through the press; or, as though
some electric mechanism had been set in motion, they would suddenly lift a foot sideways and
stand on one leg. Poised pathetically, as if waiting for the happy signal when they might put
the other leg down, these men looked very sad, and I wished that the Medusa's head might be
smuggled somehow into the room for their attitudes to be imperishably recorded in cold stone;
it would have been a valuable addition to modern sculpture.

Upon this whirlpool I embarked with the greatest misgiving and a strange young woman clinging
to my person. The noise was deafening. The four black men were now all shouting at once and
playing all their instruments at once, working up to the inconceivable uproar of the finale;
and all the dancers began to dance with a last desperate fury. Bodies buffeted one from behind,
and while one was yet looking round in apology or anger more bodies buffeted one from the flank.
It was like swimming in a choppy sea, where there is no time to get the last wave out of your
mouth before the next one hits you.

Close beside us a couple fell down with a great crash. I looked at them with concern, but no
one else took any notice. On with the dance! Faster and faster the black men played. I was
dimly aware now that they were standing on their chairs, bellowing, and fancied the end must
be near. Then we were washed into a quiet backwater, in a corner, and from here I determined
never to issue till the Last Banjo should indeed sound. Here I sidled vaguely about for a long
time, hoping that I looked like a man preparing for some vast culminating feat, a side-step
or a buzz or a double-Jazz-spin or an ordinary fall down.

The noise suddenly ceased; the four black men had exploded.

"Very good exercise," my partner said.

"Quite," said I.

A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "We published yesterday a protest from an eminent correspondent against
    the appointment of a British Ambassador to Berlin. We understand,
    nevertheless, that LORD D'ABERNON has been selected for the
    appointment."--Times.

Sir WILLIAM ORPEN is already at work, we understand, on a picture for next year's Academy,
entitled "David defying the Thunderer."

       *       *       *       *       *

VANISHED GLORY.

(The Life-tragedy of a Military Wag.)

  Time was I rocked the crowded tents
    With laughter loud and hearty,
  Librettist to the regiment's
    Diverting concert party;
  With choice of themes so very small
    The task was far from tiring;
  There really was no risk at all
    Of any joke misfiring.

  I found each gibe at army rules
    Appreciated fully;
  I sparkled when describing mules
    As "embryonic bully,"
  Or, aided by some hackneyed tune,
    Increased my easy laurels
  By stringing verses to impugn
    The quartermaster's morals.

  And so I vowed on my demob.
    To shun the retrogression
  To any sort of office job;
    I'd jest as a profession
  And burst upon the world a new
    Satirical rebuker,
  Acquiring fame and maybe too
    A modicum of lucre.

  But vain are all my jeux de mot,
    No lip is loosed in laughter;
  I send them to the Press, but no
    Acceptance follows after;
  And if, as formerly, I try
    Satiric themes my gibe'll
  Be certain to be hampered by
    The common law of libel.

  In short, my hopes begin to fade;
    The yawning gulf has rent them
  Twixt finding subjects ready made
    And having to invent them.
  Shattered my foolish dreams recede
    And pass into the distance,
  And I must search for one in need
    Of clerical assistance.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "SOLDIER BREAKS WINDOW AND BOLTS WITH TWO CAKES."--Daily Paper.

You can only do this kind of thing with the refreshment-room variety.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "For Sceptic Throats use Iodized Throat Tablets."--Local Paper.

This distressing complaint is the very reverse of "clergyman's sore throat."

       *       *       *       *       *

    "LADY wishes to Exchange, from 15th July to 15th September, Young
    Englishman for Young Frenchman."--Daily Paper.

We fear she is a flirt.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE KING'S MESSENGER.

In Paris Geraldine's mother suggested that, as I was paying a visit to London, I could bring
Geraldine out with me on the return journey. She also suggested that I might bring out a new
hat for her (Geraldine's mother) at the same time. Though being in love neither with Geraldine's
mother nor with Geraldine's mother's hat I had to take kindly to both, to further my dark designs
with regard to Geraldine.

In London I inspected the hat, complete in box. It was immediately obvious that it and I could
never make the journey to Paris together. The sight of me carrying a hat-box at the early hour
of 8 A.M. on Victoria Station would have put Geraldine off. Geraldine is very pretty, but she
is like that.

On reflection, the transport of the hat from London to Paris seemed to me to be a matter eminently
suited to the machinery of our Foreign Office. Though the Foreign Officer is as formidable
as a Bishop in his own cathedral, he is, to those who persist in knowing him personally, a
man much like oneself, fond of his glass of beer, ready to exchange one good turn for another.
It happens that I have assisted the F.O. to make peace much as I have helped the W.O. to make
war. In the sacred precincts I reminded my friend of this fact, and impressed upon him that
the consolidation of the entente between Geraldine and myself was one of the most urgent political
matters of the day. He was undiplomatic enough to ask how he could help ...

I don't want you to lose your awe of Diplomatic Bags, but there have been occasions when the
Secret and Confidential Despatch consists of little more than a personal note from one strong
silent man to another, touching on such domestic subjects as, say, a relative's hat. It was
eventually, if arduously, arranged that in this instance the despatch should consist of the
hat itself ...

