The ship which thus appeared before the castaways had long "tramped" the ocean, wandering from
one port to another as freights offered. She was two years out from London, by the Cape of
Good Hope, India, and the Archipelago; and was now bound for San Francisco in the hope of working
homeward round the Horn. Her captain was one Jacob Trent. He had retired some five years before
to a suburban cottage, a patch of cabbages, a gig, and the conduct of what he called a Bank.
The name appears to have been misleading. Borrowers were accustomed to choose works of art
and utility in the front shop; loaves of sugar and bolts of broadcloth were deposited in pledge;
and it was a part of the manager's duty to dash in his gig on Saturday evenings from one small
retailer's to another, and to annex in each the bulk of the week's takings. His was thus an
active life, and, to a man of the type of a rat, filled with recondite joys. An unexpected
loss, a lawsuit, and the unintelligent commentary of the judge upon the bench, combined to
disgust him of the business. I was so extraordinarily fortunate as to find, in an old newspaper,
a report of the proceedings in Lyall v. The Cardiff Mutual Accommodation Banking Co. "I confess
I fail entirely to understand the nature of the business," the judge had remarked, while Trent
was being examined in chief; a little after, on fuller information--"They call it a bank,"
he had opined, "but it seems to me to be an unlicensed pawn-shop"; and he wound up with this
appalling allocution: "Mr. Trent, I must put you on your guard; you must be very careful, or
we shall see you here again." In the inside of a week the captain disposed of the bank, the
cottage, and the gig and horse; and to sea again in the Flying Scud, where he did well, and
gave high satisfaction to his owners. But the glory clung to him; he was a plain sailor-man,
he said, but he could never long allow you to forget that he had been a banker.

His mate, Elias Goddedaal, was a huge Viking of a man, six feet three, and of proportionate
mass, strong, sober, industrious, musical, and sentimental. He ran continually over into Swedish
melodies, chiefly in the minor. He had paid nine dollars to hear Patti; to hear Nilsson, he
had deserted a ship and two months' wages; and he was ready at any time to walk ten miles for
a good concert or seven to a reasonable play. On board he had three treasures: a canary bird,
a concertina, and a blinding copy of the works of Shakespeare. He had a gift, peculiarly Scandinavian,
of making friends at sight; and elemental innocence commended him; he was without fear, without
reproach, and without money or the hope of making it.

Holdorsen was second mate, and berthed aft, but messed usually with the hands.

Of one more of the crew some image lives. This was a foremast hand out of the Clyde, of the
name of Brown. A small, dark, thick-set creature, with dog's eyes, of a disposition incomparably
mild and harmless, he knocked about seas and cities, the uncomplaining whiptop of one vice.
"The drink is my trouble, ye see," he said to Carthew shyly; "and it's the more shame to me
because I'm come of very good people at Bowling, down the wa'er." The letter that so much affected
Nares, in case the reader should remember it, was addressed to this man Brown.

Such was the ship that now carried joy into the bosoms of the castaways. After the fatigue
and the bestial emotions of their night of play, the approach of salvation shook them from
all self-control. Their hands trembled, their eyes shone, they laughed and shouted like children
as they cleared their camp: and some one beginning to whistle "Marching Through Georgia," the
remainder of the packing was conducted, amidst a thousand interruptions, to these martial strains.
But the strong head of Wicks was only partly turned.

"Boys," he said, "easy all! We're going aboard of a ship of which we don't know nothing; we've
got a chest of specie, and seeing the weight, we can't turn to and deny it. Now, suppose she
was fishy; suppose it was some kind of a Bully Hayes business! It's my opinion we'd better
be on hand with the pistols."

Every man of the party but Hemstead had some kind of a revolver; these were accordingly loaded
and disposed about the persons of the castaways, and the packing was resumed and finished in
the same rapturous spirit as it was begun. The sun was not yet ten degrees above the eastern
sea, but the brig was already close in and hove-to, before they had launched the boat and sped,
shouting at the oars, towards the passage.

It was blowing fresh outside with a strong send of sea. The spray flew in the oarsmen's faces.
They saw the Union Jack blow abroad from the Flying Scud, the men clustered at the rail, the
cook in the galley-door, the captain on the quarter-deck with a pith helmet and binoculars.
And the whole familiar business, the comfort, company, and safety of a ship, heaving nearer
at each stroke, maddened them with joy.

Wicks was the first to catch the line, and swarm on board, helping hands grabbing him as he
came and hauling him across the rail.

"Captain, sir, I suppose?" he said, turning to the hard old man in the pith helmet.

"Captain Trent, sir," returned the old gentleman.

"Well, I'm Captain Kirkup, and this is the crew of the Sydney schooner Currency Lass, dismasted
at sea January 28th."

"Ay, ay," said Trent. "Well, you're all right now. Lucky for you I saw your signal. I didn't
know I was so near this beastly island, there must be a drift to the south'ard here; and when
I came on deck this morning at eight bells, I thought it was a ship afire."

It had been agreed that, while Wicks was to board the ship and do the civil, the rest were
to remain in the whaleboat and see the treasure safe. A tackle was passed down to them; to
this they made fast the invaluable chest, and gave the word to heave. But the unexpected weight
brought the hand at the tackle to a stand; two others ran to tail on and help him, and the
thing caught the eye of Trent.

"'Vast heaving!" he cried sharply; and then to Wicks: "What's that? I don't ever remember to
have seen a chest weigh like that."

"It's money," said Wicks.

"It's what?" cried Trent.

"Specie," said Wicks; "saved from the wreck."

Trent looked at him sharply. "Here, let go that chest again, Mr. Goddedaal," he commanded,
"shove the boat off, and stream her with a line astern."

"Ay, ay, sir!" from Goddedaal.

"What the devil's wrong?" asked Wicks.

"Nothing, I daresay," returned Trent. "But you'll allow it's a queer thing when a boat turns
up in mid-ocean with half a ton of specie and everybody armed," he added, pointing to Wicks's
pocket. "Your boat will lay comfortably astern, while you come below and make yourself satisfactory."

"O, if that's all!" said Wicks. "My log and papers are as right as the mail; nothing fishy
about us." And he hailed his friends in the boat, bidding them have patience, and turned to
follow Captain Trent.

"This way, Captain Kirkup," said the latter. "And don't blame a man for too much caution; no
offence intended; and these China rivers shake a fellow's nerve. All I want is just to see
you're what you say you are; it's only my duty, sir, and what you would do yourself in the
circumstances. I've not always been a ship-captain: I was a banker once, and I tell you that's
the trade to learn caution in. You have to keep your weather-eye lifting Saturday nights."
And with a dry, business-like cordiality, he produced a bottle of gin.

The captains pledged each other; the papers were overhauled; the tale of Topelius and the trade
was told in appreciative ears and cemented their acquaintance. Trent's suspicions, thus finally
disposed of, were succeeded by a fit of profound thought, during which he sat lethargic and
stern, looking at and drumming on the table.

"Anything more?" asked Wicks.

"What sort of a place is it inside?" inquired Trent, sudden as though Wicks had touched a spring.

"It's a good enough lagoon--a few horses' heads, but nothing to mention," answered Wicks.

"I've a good mind to go in," said Trent. "I was new rigged in China; it's given very bad, and
I'm getting frightened for my sticks. We could set it up as good as new in a day. For I daresay
your lot would turn to and give us a hand?"

"You see if we don't!" said Wicks.

"So be it, then," concluded Trent. "A stitch in time saves nine."

They returned on deck; Wicks cried the news to the Currency Lasses; the foretopsail was filled
again, and the brig ran into the lagoon lively, the whaleboat dancing in her wake, and came
to single anchor off Middle Brooks Island before eight. She was boarded by the castaways, breakfast
was served, the baggage slung on board and piled in the waist, and all hands turned to upon
the rigging. All day the work continued, the two crews rivalling each other in expense of strength.
Dinner was served on deck, the officers messing aft under the slack of the spanker, the men
fraternising forward. Trent appeared in excellent spirits, served out grog to all hands, opened
a bottle of Cape wine for the after-table, and obliged his guests with many details of the
life of a financier in Cardiff. He had been forty years at sea, had five times suffered shipwreck,
was once nine months the prisoner of a pepper rajah, and had seen service under fire in Chinese
rivers; but the only thing he cared to talk of, the only thing of which he was vain, or with
which he thought it possible to interest a stranger, was his career as a money-lender in the
slums of a seaport town.

The afternoon spell told cruelly on the Currency Lasses. Already exhausted as they were with
sleeplessness and excitement, they did the last hours of this violent employment on bare nerves;
and, when Trent was at last satisfied with the condition of his rigging, expected eagerly the
word to put to sea. But the captain seemed in no hurry. He went and walked by himself softly,
like a man in thought. Presently he hailed Wicks.

"You're a kind of company, ain't you, Captain Kirkup?" he inquired.

"Yes, we're all on board on lays," was the reply.

"Well, then, you won't mind if I ask the lot of you down to tea in the cabin?" asked Trent.

Wicks was amazed, but he naturally ventured no remark; and a little after, the six Currency
Lasses sat down with Trent and Goddedaal to a spread of marmalade, butter, toast, sardines,
tinned tongue, and steaming tea. The food was not very good, and I have no doubt Nares would
have reviled it, but it was manna to the castaways. Goddedaal waited on them with a kindness
far before courtesy, a kindness like that of some old, honest countrywoman in her farm. It
was remembered afterwards that Trent took little share in these attentions, but sat much absorbed
in thought, and seemed to remember and forget the presence of his guests alternately.

Presently he addressed the Chinaman.

"Clear out," said he, and watched him till he had disappeared in the stair.--"Now, gentlemen,"
he went on, "I understand you're a joint-stock sort of crew, and that's why I've had you all
down; for there's a point I want made clear. You see what sort of a ship this is--a good ship,
though I say it, and you see what the rations are--good enough for sailor-men."

There was a hurried murmur of approval, but curiosity for what was coming next prevented an
articulate reply.

