After some time (about three decorations and a mention in despatches, as McTurtle measured
time) the overland leave route was opened, and the far-reaching shadow of war plunged suddenly
across McTurtle's unlikely threshold. He was called upon, like many another harmless Staff-officer,
to give up his simple comforts and to face hardship and suffering for a scrap of paper (authorising
him to travel to Manchester). At first McTurtle was content to let the younger men of the Base
make a stand against the aggression of the front line. Being the only support of an aged Colonel
and no mere youth, he left it to the reckless A.P.M.'s, the dashing Camp Commandants and the
carefree dare-devil Field-Cashiers to repel the infantry and gunners. But his conscience was
uneasy, and indeed his apparent lack of proper feeling was commented upon by others. Once an
A.D.C. handed him a white feather in the Rue Venizelos.

At length it became obvious that the Base was losing ground. The infantry and gunners, outnumbering
the Staff by at least two to one, were gaining positions on each leave-party. The issue was
trembling in the balance, and McTurtle answered the call. With set lips he sought the nearest
orderly-room sergeant.

Before a week was out the night saw a train creeping through the gloom towards Athens and McTurtle
sitting wakeful amongst four snoring infantrymen. He thought piously of the time when the Staff
should reach such a pitch of organization that it would be needless--nay, impossible--for infantry
to continue to exist. Towards dawn he fell into a doze, and when he waked it was light. He
lowered what had been the window and looked out.

McTurtle hates heights, and in his cloistered Salonica life he had never realised that the
trains of Greece ran about like mice upon a cornice. Four hundred precipitous feet yawned beneath
his horrified eyes, and at his first involuntary gasp the teeth he owed to art and not to nature
left him and swooped like a hawk upon a distant flock of sheep. The shepherd, a simple rustic
unfamiliar with modern dentistry, endeavoured to sell them subsequently to a Y.M.C.A. archaeologist
as genuine antiques.

At that moment the train stopped. McTurtle thought that his loss had been noticed, but as he
made his way to the kit-truck for some more teeth he discovered that a landslide barred the
way. The train backed cautiously for ten minutes and stopped again. Another landslide. The
leave-party remained stationary for thirty hours, eating the rations thoughtfully provided
for such a contingency.

In due course McTurtle found himself on the front seat of a motor lorry breasting the spurs
of Mt. Parnassus. The dizziness of his path was invisible to him, for in a Grecian summer you
can see nothing out of motor vehicles but dust.

But when the lorry reached the summit of the pass the sea-breeze from the Gulf of Corinth cleared
the air and he saw for the first time the peaks on one side and the gulfs on the other, with
the road writhing down canyons and gorges like a demoniac corkscrew.

"Fine view, Sir," remarked the driver.

McTurtle gulped assent. "Bit dangerous, 'o course," continued the driver chattily. "There was
a steam roller went over the edge just 'ere three days ago. Nice young fellow as drove it.
Beg pardon, Sir? Oh, I thought you spoke.

"Yes, 'e went too near the edge and it gave like. No nearer than we 'as to go, o' course: you
watch while we pass this French-man.... There was a lad took a lorry over three weeks ago.
'Ad an attack of fever while 'e was driving and went unconscious. 'Ave you 'ad malaria, Sir?
I get it something cruel meself. Comes on sudden like.

"Blimey, you 've got a touch coming on now, 'aven't you?"

At Itea, on the Gulf of Corinth, the party was ordered to return owing to a German offensive
in France. McTurtle went back under chloroform. A week later it made another attempt, but was
stopped by the Austrian offensive in Italy. McTurtle went back under morphia. At the third
attempt it got through, but without McTurtle.

His nerve is gone, and he is marooned at Salonica. He cannot face the overland route, and he
cannot get home all the way by sea just yet. In spite of all his endeavours he cannot become
a naturalised Greek and stay there, because of linguistic difficulties.

But what he wants to know is, why can't the medical authorities recognise "leave-shock" as
a disease and send him home by hospital ship?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The King has awarded a Knight Commandership of the Bath
    to Lieutenant-Colonel ----, C.B., in charging
    customers excessive prices for milk by giving short
    measure."--Provincial Paper.

We should have thought the Pump would been more suitable than the Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LABOUR NOTES.

A threat was recently made by the representatives of the miners that industrial action would
be taken unless the Government at once withdrew all troops from Russia and abandoned conscription.
There has been, it appears, an unfortunate misunderstanding as to the exact meaning of the
term "industrial action." On Sunday a meeting of protest against the miners' proposal was held
under the auspices of The United Brotherhood of Worshipful Lead-Swingers and Affiliated Trades.
Violent attacks were made by several speakers upon the Miners' leaders, and serious disruption
in the Labour World seemed imminent. But when it was authoritatively explained that "industrial
action," instead of meaning work, as was supposed, was a euphemistic term for striking, harmony
reigned once more. It was, however, unanimously resolved that in future the expression "industrial
inaction" be always used in such connection, as "action" was a word repugnant to all right-thinking
Lead-Swingers, and, anyhow, calculated in such a context to give rise to confusion of thought.

       *       *       *       *       *

A Trades Union has recently been formed to further the interests and raise the status of all
who are in receipt of Government unemployment pay. It is hoped eventually to obtain a charter,
and thus give professional standing to those employed in receiving such pay. In the meantime,
however, the Union is working on orthodox labour lines, and arrangements are practically completed
for calling a national strike of unemployed to compel the Authorities to increase the amount
of the grant by one hundred per cent. In the event of a strike each member of the Union will
formally week by week refuse to accept his or her money, and it is believed that the Government
will quickly be brought to its knees. No special steps are to be taken against traitors to
the cause who accept work. The social ostracism thereby incurred is felt to be a sufficient
deterrent.

       *       *       *       *       *

A regrettable impasse has been reached in the dispute between The Amalgamated Society of Trades
Union Leaders and the Trades Unions. Mr. Blogg, speaking for the Leaders' society, stated,
on leaving the Conference last night, that the outlook was black. Unless the rank and file
of the Unions were prepared to meet the Leaders' demands a strike was certain. He shrank from
imagining what was likely to happen if the Trades Unions were left leaderless. The responsibility,
however, did not rest with the Leaders. They had made every possible concession. A four-hours'
day and a salary of one thousand pounds per annum was the minimum which would be considered.

       *       *       *       *       *

