We again encounter this same base with its opposing curves in a curious monument discovered
at Kouyundjik by Mr. George Smith.[267] This is a small and carefully executed model, in yellowstone,
of a winged human-headed bull, supporting on his back a vase or base similar in design to that
figured above. This little object must have served as a model for the carvers engaged upon
the palace walls. We shall not here stop to examine the attributes and ornaments of the bull,
they are well shown in our Figs. 83 and 84, and their types are known by many other examples.
Our aim is to show that we have rightly described the uses to which it was put. These might
have remained obscure but for the discovery, in the south-western palace at Nimroud, of a pair
of winged sphinxes, calcined by fire but still in their places between two huge lions at one
of the doors. Before their contours disappeared--and they rapidly crumbled away upon contact
with the air--Layard had time to make a drawing of the one that had suffered least (Fig. 85).
In his description he says that between the two wings was a sort of plateau, "intended to carry
the base of a column."[268]

Surprised at not finding any trace of the column itself, he gives out another conjecture: that
these sphinxes were altars upon which offerings to the gods, or presents to the king were placed.
This hypothesis encounters many objections. We may easily account for the disappearance of
the column by supposing it to have been of wood. If it was stone, it may have been carried
off for use as a roller by the inhabitants of the neighbouring villages, before that part of
the building to which it belonged was so completely engulfed and hidden by the ruins as it
afterwards became.[269] Moreover we can point to a certain number of Assyrian altars, and their
shapes are very different from this.

Finally, all our doubts are removed by a bas-relief from the palace of Assurbanipal, which
is now in the British Museum (Fig. 86). The upper part of this carved picture is destroyed,
but enough remains to show that it reproduced the façade of some richly decorated building.
Four columns supported on the backs of so many lions, and two flat pilasters upheld in the
same fashion by winged griffins, may readily be distinguished. That these griffins are not
repeated on the left of the relief, is due perhaps to the haste or laziness of the sculptor.
He may have thought he had done enough when he had shown once for all how these pedestals were
composed. However this may have been, the lions in this relief play exactly the same rôle as
that attributed by us to the little model found by George Smith, and to the winged sphinx discovered
by Sir Henry Layard before one of the doors at Nimroud. A base in the form of a vase or cushion
is inserted between the back of the animal and the bottom of the shaft. In the pilaster--if
we may believe that the artist took no liberties with fact--the junction is direct without
the interposition of any ornamental motive.

In what M. Place calls the state doorways (portes ornées) of Khorsabad, the arches spring from
the backs of the great mitred bulls that guard the entrance.[270] But, whether the columns
rose from the backs of animals real or fantastic, they always seem to have had a base. Almost
the only instance of its absence is in the open gallery in Fig. 76, and there, perhaps, they
are hidden by a balustrade. Everywhere else we find a more or less ornamental member interposed
between the shaft and the ground. At Khorsabad (Fig. 41) it is a simple torus (Fig. 87), at
Kouyundjik (Fig. 42) it is a kind of cushion (Fig. 88), which we find represented in not a
few of the bas-reliefs. The curves bear a distant resemblance to the volutes of a capital;
above this base appears a ring or astragal, the origin of which may be easily guessed. The
original timber column, the newly felled tree that was set up to support the roof of a tent
or a house, must have been placed upon a block of stone or wood, to which it was joined, in
some degree, by hollowing out the latter and setting the foot of the timber beam in the hollow,
and then hiding the junction by those reed bands that, as travellers tell us, were still used
for the same purpose in the last years of Babylon.[271] In time a ring of metal would take
the place of the reeds, and when stone columns came to be used, a feature which was at first
a necessity, or, at least, a useful expedient and a guarantee of duration and solidity, came
at last to be simply an ornament.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have now studied the Assyrian column as a whole and in detail. Most of its features seem
to us to be survivals from the methods and processes of what we have called the architecture
of the tent. The stone column had no place in those structures of crude brick of which the
real national architecture of Mesopotamia consisted; it was not at home there; the surrounding
conditions were unfavourable to its development. And yet, in time, it did, as we have seen,
put in a rare appearance, at least in the case of that one of the two sister nations by which
a sufficient supply of stone could be obtained, but even then it filled an ornamental and auxiliary
rather than a vital function. Its remains are only to be found by patient search, and even
in the bas-reliefs its representations are few and far between. By making diligent use of these
two channels of information archæology has succeeded in demonstrating the existence of the
Assyrian column and describing its forms, but at the same time it has been compelled to recognize
how narrow was its use, especially in the great structures on which Mesopotamian builders lavished
all the resources of their art. In those it was employed mainly for the decoration of outbuildings,
and it will be well to inquire how it acquitted itself of such a task.

       *       *       *       *       *

The column seems to have been introduced in those gateways to which the Assyrian architect
attached so much importance.[272] Read carefully Sir Henry Layard's description of his discovery
of two sphinxes upon one of the façades of the south-western palace at Kouyundjik (Fig. 83);
he gives no plan of the passage where he found them, but his narrative[273] suggests the existence
of some kind of porch in front of the large opening. It must have been upheld by a pair of
columns on the backs of the two sphinxes, and may have consisted of one of those wooden canopies
which are so common in the modern architecture of the East.[274]

We are inclined to recognize a pent house of this kind, but of more complicated construction
in the Kouyundjik bas-relief figured above (Fig. 83). No door is shown, but that, perhaps,
is due to the sculptor's inability to suggest a void, or the two central perpendicular lines
may have been joined by a horizontal one on the upper part of the relief, which is lost, and
thus a doorway indicated; it would then have a couple of pilasters and a couple of columns
on each flank.

In classic architecture we find nothing that can be compared with this curious notion of placing
columns and pilasters on the backs of real or imaginary animals, on a lion, a winged bull,
or a sphinx. In the modern East, however, it is still done. The throne of the Shah, at Teheran,
is supported by columns which, in their turn, stand on the backs of lions. Singularly enough
the same idea found favour with European architects in the middle ages, who often made use
of it in the porches of their Christian cathedrals.[275] Hence, the old formula often found
in judicial documents, sedente inter leones,--sitting between the lions--which, was used of
episcopal judgments delivered in the church porch. In Italy, in buildings of the Lombardic
style, these lions are to be found in great numbers and in this same situation. At Modena there
is one in the south porch of the cathedral that strongly reminded me by its style and handling
of the figures now existing in Cappadocia, of the lion at Euiuk, for example; in both instances
it is extended on the ground with its fore paws laid upon some beast it has caught.[276] We
could hardly name a motive more dear to Oriental art than this. Between the predilections of
the modern East and those of Assyria and Chaldæa there are many such analogies. We shall not
try to explain them; we shall be content with pointing them out as they present themselves.

Various facts observed by Sir Henry Layard and the late George Smith, show that the column
was often employed to form covered alleys stretching from a door to the edge of the platform,
doubtless to the landings on which the stepped or inclined approaches to the palace came to
an end. Sir Henry Layard[277] found four bases of limestone (Fig. 82) on the north side of
Sennacherib's palace. They were in couples, one couple close to the palace wall, the other
in a line with it but some eight-and-twenty yards farther from the building. In each pair the
distance from centre to centre was 9 feet 3 inches. With such a width the covered way may very
well have been roofed with wood, a hypothesis which is supported by the discovery, at the same
point, of the remains of crude brick walls. The columns would mark in all likelihood the two
extremities of the passage. As for the other conjecture thrown out by the explorer, it seems
to us to be much less probable. He asks whether these bases may not have been the pedestals
of statues. Many Assyrian statues have been found together with their pedestals, and these
are always simple in the extreme and without any kind of ornament. Moreover, the statues themselves
were made rather to be set up against a wall than to pass an independent existence in an open
courtyard.

Moreover, George Smith saw two of these bases in place at one of the entrances to the palace
of Assurbanipal. Unfortunately he gives no drawing and his description is wanting in clearness,
but he seems to have noticed the traces left by a cylindrical shaft on the upper surface of
one base; his expression, "a flat circle to receive the column," evidently means that the latter
was sunk into the substance of the base.[278] Here, no doubt was the end of a gallery, like
that in front of Sennacherib's palace.

There must in all probability have been other remains of these columns besides those noticed
by the English explorer, but at Khorsabad alone were the excavations superintended by a professional
architect, there alone were they watched by the trained eye of a man capable of giving its
true meaning and value to every detail of a ruinous building. At Nimroud, at Kouyundjik, at
Nebbi-Younas, many interesting traces of ancient arrangements may have been obliterated in
the course of the excavations without those who stood by having the least suspicion of their
significance.

We might perhaps, if it were worth while, come upon further representations of columns on engraved
stones, on ivories, and bronzes,[279] but upon such small objects forms are indicated in a
very summary fashion, and, besides, they would be nothing more than curtailed repetitions of
motives shown in more detail and upon a larger scale elsewhere. Our readers may fairly judge,
from the examples we have placed before them, of the appearance of those columns of wood and
metal, which the Chaldæans used in the light and graceful tabernacles figured for us on the
relief from Sippara, and of the more durable stone supports of the Assyrians. Long habit and
an excessive respect for tradition, hindered the latter from turning the column to its fullest
use. They stopped half way. They employed the feature with such timidity that we can point
to nothing that can be called an Assyrian order. They produced nothing to compare with the
rich and varied colonnades that we admired in the hypostyle halls of Egypt. And yet we cannot
say that they showed any lack of originality or invention in their choice of decorations for
the bases and capitals of their columns. Their favourite motive seems to have been the volute,
to which, however, they gave an endless variety. They used it, no doubt, in many ways that
now escape us, and by applying it now to this purpose and now to that, and sometimes with the
happiest results, they accumulated an amount of experience as to the value of those graceful
curves which was of great value to their successors. Who those successors were and how they
carried to perfection a form which had its origin on the banks of the Tigris and Euphrates,
will be shown in the course of our history.

NOTES:

[251] See above, p. 118, note 1.

[253] This inscription is published in full in the Cuneiform Inscriptions of Western Asia,
vol. v. part ii.

[254] The names of these three deities are furnished by the inscription which runs beneath
the canopy of the pavilion (see Fig. 71).

[255] The disk upon the table is enough by itself to betray the identity of the god, but as
if to render assurance doubly sure, the artist has taken the trouble to cut on the bed of the
relief under the three small figures, an inscription which has been thus translated by MM.
OPPERT and MÉNANT: "Image of the Sun, the Great Lord, who dwells in the temple of Bit-para,
in the city of Sippara."

[256] See our History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. chap. 1, § 1.

[257] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 120-122, and vol. iii. plate 73.

[258] In this connection Sir H. LAYARD makes an observation to which the attention of the artist
should be drawn. Whenever pictures of Belshazzar's Feast and the Last Night of Babylon are
painted massive Egyptian pillars are introduced: nothing could be more contrary to the facts
(Discoveries, p. 581).

[259] M. PLACE, indeed, encountered an octagonal column on the mound of Karamles, but the general
character of the objects found in that excavation led him to conclude positively that the column
in question was a relic from the Parthian or Sassanide epoch (Ninive, vol. ii. pp. 169, 170).

[260] History of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. p. 95.

[261] Ibid. vol. i. p. 397, fig. 230; and vol. ii. p. 105, fig. 84.

[262] The profiles of the capitals in this gallery led Sir H. LAYARD to speak of "small pillars
with capitals in the form of the Ionic volute" (Discoveries, p. 119) (?).

[263] A similar arrangement of volutes may be found on the rough columns engraved upon one
of the ivory plaques found at Nimroud (LAYARD, Monuments, &c., first series, plate 88, fig. 3).

[264] We reproduce this capital from RAWLINSON'S Five Great Monarchies (vol. i. p. 333); but
we should have liked to be able to refer either to the relief in which it occurs, or to the
original design which must have been made in the case of those slabs which had to be left at
Nineveh. We have succeeded in finding neither the relief nor the drawing, so that we cannot
guarantee the fidelity of the image.

[265] See Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. p. 120, fig. 95.

[266] LAYARD forgets to give the height of this base: he is content to tell us that its greatest
diameter is 2 feet 7 inches, and its smallest 11-1/2 inches. This latter measurement must have
been taken at the junction with the shaft (Discoveries, p. 590).

[267] George SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, sixth edition, 8vo. 1876, p. 431.

[268] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. p. 349, at a little distance the explorer found the bodies of
two lions placed back to back, which seemed to have formed a pedestal of the same kind. Their
heads were wanting, and the whole group had suffered so much from fire, that it was impossible
either to carry it off or to make a satisfactory drawing from it (ibid. p. 351).

[269] This suggestion seems inconsistent with the state of the ruin at the spot where the discovery
was made. Sir Henry Layard describes these sphinxes as buried in charcoal, and so calcined
by the fire that they fell into minute fragments soon after exposure to the air. Anything carried
on their backs must have fallen at the time of the conflagration, and, if a stone column, it
would have been found under the charcoal.--ED.

[270] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plate 11.

[271] STRABO, xvi. 1, 5.

[272] Thomas has placed one of these porches in his restoration of Sargon's palace at Khorsabad.
It is supported by two columns, and serves to mark one of the entrances to the harem. (PLACE,
Ninive, vol. iii. plate 37 bis.)

[273] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. pp. 349, 350.

[274] Numerous examples are figured in COSTE and FLANDIN'S Perse Moderne, plates 3, 7, 9, 26,
27, 54, &c. They cast a wide shadow in front of the doorways, and sometimes run along the whole
length of the façade. Some little support to M. Perrot's theory is afforded by a circumstance
on which Layard dwells strongly in the passage referred to above, namely, that the sphinxes
were found buried over their heads in charcoal, which may very well have been the remains of
such a porch; its quantity seems too great for those of a ceiling.--ED.

[275] This coincidence struck Professor Rawlinson, who compares one of these Assyrian columns
to a column in the porch of the Cathedral of Trent. He reproduces them both in his Five Great
Monarchies, vol. i. p. 313.

[276] See PERROT and GUILLAUME, Exploration archéologique de la Galatie, vol. ii. pl. 57.

[277] Discoveries, p. 590.

[278] GEORGE SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, p. 431.

[279] One curious example of this is figured in the work of M. CHIPIEZ, Histoire critique de
l'Origine et de la Formation des Ordres grecs, p. 20. See also LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 444,
where a bas-relief from the palace of Sennacherib is figured, upon which appears a coffer supported
by a foot in the shape of a column, which ends in a regular volute.

§ 5.--The Arch.

In the preceding pages we have determined the rôle played by the column in Assyria, and have
explained that in spite of the care and taste lavished upon some of its details, it never rose
above the rank of a secondary and subordinate member. There is nothing, then, to surprise us
in the fact that the Assyrian architect never placed his arches or vaults upon columns or piers;
he seems never to have had a glimpse of the great possibilities such a procedure involved,
a procedure from which upon the very soil of the East, his remote descendants were to evolve
the architecture of the Byzantine church and the Arab mosque. His archivolts and the pendentives
of his vaults always rest upon thick walls, and yet almost every variety of the simple arch
or tunnel-vault are to be found among the ruins of his buildings.

       *       *       *       *       *

Like all the other forms of Assyrian architecture the arch was invented in Chaldæa. The use
of small sized materials must have led to its early discovery in that country. But the only
arches now standing occur in the better preserved monuments of Assyria. On the other hand the
tombs of Lower Chaldæa furnish more than one example of that false, corbelled or off-set vault,
that we have already encountered in Egypt.[280] The chamber figured below is taken from the
necropolis of Mugheir, formerly "Ur of the Chaldees." It is built of crude brick bound with
mud. The vault is supported by walls sloping upwards and outwards like those of a modern tunnel
(Fig. 89).[281]

Such a method of construction is only adapted to buildings of small dimensions; it could not
be used for chambers with wide roofs, or where any great weight was to be upheld. The arches
upon which, according to both Strabo and Diodorus,[282] the hanging gardens of Babylon were
supported, must have been real centred arches. As to whether they were of pisé, like those
of Khorsabad, the Greek writers tell us nothing. From what we know of the habits of the Chaldæan
builder we may conclude that they were true arches with voussoirs either of bricks burnt in
the kiln, or so well dried that they were almost as hard and durable as those that had passed
through the fire. This conjecture is confirmed by the fact that the structures in question
lasted till the Macedonian conquest. Strabo and Diodorus speak of the great temple of Bel as
so ruinous that its original height could not be guessed, even approximatively. It was otherwise
with the hanging gardens. Of these they give the measurements, on plan, of the platforms and
piers, together with their heights, and the heights of the arches. We should find it difficult
to explain the preciseness of these measurements and their agreement one with another, unless
we supposed that both writers had some exact authority, such as one of the companions or historians
of Alexander, to refer to. The kings of Persia lived at Babylon for a part of the year. These
princes may well have been indifferent to the preservation of the national fanes, they may
even have hastened their destruction, as Xerxes is said to have done, in order to punish and
humiliate the rebellious Babylonians. But in their own interest they would see that proper
care was taken of those hanging gardens by which their stay in the city would be rendered more
pleasant than it would otherwise have been, from whose lofty platforms their watchful eyes
could roam over the city and the adjoining plain, and follow the course of the great river
until it disappeared on the south amid groves of waving palm. After the rise of Seleucia and
Ctesiphon, however, the gardens would rapidly hasten to decay, but they must have been solidly
built in the first instance to last as long as they did. The pisé vaults of the Ninevite palaces
could never have stood so well. In spite of the layers of lead and bitumen which, as Diodorus
tells us, were spread upon their terraces, the summer rains must in time have found their way
into their walls and set up a process of disintegration which could have but one end. Real
brick with good mortar could alone resist such influences, and those, no doubt, were the materials
used in the Babylonian gardens. If their substructures should ever be found and laid open,
we have little doubt that arches as carefully built as those of the Assyrian ruins will be
brought to light.

The gateways of the town built by Sargon at the foot of his palace mound were roofed with semicircular
vaults.[283] In order to study their construction more closely, M. Place demolished one of
these arches piece by piece, the one numbered three on his plan.[284] It was already condemned
to destruction by the necessity for carrying off its sculptures.

The total height from pavement to keystone, was twenty-four feet six inches, from the centre
of the keystone to the springing of the arch itself was eight feet, the total width of the
opening, measured at the feet of the caryatides, was fourteen feet four inches.

The bricks had not been burnt in a kiln but they had been subjected to a prolonged desiccation.
The system of construction was as simple as possible. The perpendicular side walls passed into
the vault without any preparation, and the arch when complete had no inward projection and
no structural ornament but the inner faces of the carefully placed voussoirs; as all the bricks
were of the same size and shape something more than their slightly trapezoidal form was required
to keep them in place, and a softer clay was used to bind them together. With the addition
of this rude cement each brick became a long and narrow wedge and determined the curve of the
vault in which it was placed. Some idea of the appearance of this triple arch may be formed
from the illustration we have compiled from M. Thomas's elevation of an alcove in one of the
harem apartments at Khorsabad (Fig. 90). This vault is not in existence, but its component
parts were found among the ruins of Sargon's palace.[285]

There is one detail in the decoration of these doorways that should be carefully noted. Wherever
the architect makes use of a round-headed opening he reinforces its outlines with a kind of
semicircular frieze, to which brilliant colours or bold reliefs would give no little decorative
value. In what M. Place calls portes ornées, this ornamental archivolt is of enamelled bricks,
in the subordinate entrances it is distinguished from the rest of the wall merely by its salience.
In neither case, however, does it end in any kind of impost, it returns horizontally without
the arch and forms an ornament along a line corresponding to the spring of the vault within.
We give an example of this peculiarly Assyrian arrangement from one of the gateways at Dour-Saryoukin
(Fig. 91). Nothing like it is to be found, so far as we know, among the buildings of any other
ancient people.

From the point of view of the special study on which we are now busy, the inhabited and visible
part of an Assyrian building is less interesting than those channels hidden in the substructures
which acted as drains. These channels existed in all the palaces. Layard encountered them at
Nimroud and Kouyundjik,[286] but it was at Khorsabad that they were found in the best condition
and most carefully studied.[287] We shall make use chiefly of the observations of MM. Place
and Thomas in our explanation of a curious system of sewers that does, perhaps, more honour
to the Ninevite builder than any other part of his work. Every detail of their construction
is full of interest,--the general arrangement, the choice of materials and the various methods
of vaulting brought into play.

In nearly all the rooms there is an opening in the middle of the pavement towards which the
rest of the floor has a gentle slope. It is a round hole cut through the centre of a square
stone set among the bricks and leading to a circular brick conduit. In the first specimen described
by M. Place, this descending pipe is five feet four inches deep, and rather more than eleven
inches in diameter. It leads into an almost horizontal conduit with a similar section and of
the same materials. This latter channel is gently inclined through the whole of its length;
it terminates in the main drain of which the cut on the next page gives a section in perspective
(Fig. 92).[288]

The floor of this sewer was formed of large limestone slabs overpassing the inside width of
the channel by several inches. By this means the internal joints were reduced to a minimum,
and a further precaution was taken by placing the slabs in a bath of asphalte, which was also
used to coat the oblique channels and the foot of the vertical pipe. The low perpendicular
walls upon which the vault was to be placed were built upon the outer edge of these wide slabs.
They were of four-inch bricks, carefully laid.

The most remarkable thing about this drain is the construction of the vault. The bricks composing
it are trapezoidal in shape, two of their edges being slightly rounded, the one concave, the
other convex. The radius of this curve varies with each brick, being governed by its destined
place in the vault. These bricks go therefore in pairs, and as there are four courses of bricks
on each side of the vault, four separate and different moulds would be required, besides a
fifth, for a brick of which we shall presently have to speak. The four narrow sides of these
bricks differ sensibly one from another. The two curved faces being at different distances
from the centre, are of unequal lengths, while, as the lower oblique edge is some inches below
the upper in the curve, these two edges have different directions. In their disinclination
to use stone voussoirs, the Assyrian builders here found themselves compelled to mould bricks
of very complicated form, and the way in which they accomplished their task speaks volumes
for their skill.

If we cast a glance at our Fig. 92 the first thing that strikes us is the absence of a keystone
to the vault. The two rows of voussoirs that are in full view thrust against each other only
by a single sharp edge; there is no keystone between them. In the row immediately behind, however,
there is a stone (imperfectly seen in our illustration) that seems to play the part of a key.
Thus we find that only at each alternate vertical course was the arch of burnt and moulded
brick complete. The openings left at the summits of the other courses must have been filled
in in some way, and, in fact, the line of voids which ran along the top of the extrados was
filled in with brick earth, beaten tight and forming the best of keys. So that the vault was
completed and consolidated by the same material as that used to make its channel impervious
to water.[289]

This vault has another strange singularity which at first is very surprising. The whole structure
has a sensible inclination in the direction of its length, suggesting that some accident had
happened to it in course of erection. Such an explanation must be rejected, however, because
at the moment of discovery the whole arrangement was uninjured, and, moreover, the filling
of clay must have rendered any movement of the kind impossible. M. Place's explanation seems
the best. He thinks the slope was given merely to facilitate the work of the bricklayers. The
first course of voussoirs would be sloped in this fashion, and would rest upon some mass of
crude brick in the centre of the building. The bricks of the second course would lean against
it, and their weight would be brought in to add cohesion and solidity to the whole structure
instead of being entirely occupied in adding to the perpendicular thrust, while the ease with
which they could be placed without an internal support would be much increased. Assisted by
this simple expedient, two bricklayers with their labourers could build the vault at a very
rapid rate. We may believe that the notion of building in this way would never have occurred
to the Assyrian architects but for their habit of dispensing with timber centres.

This slope had an effect upon the arrangement of the bricks which should be noticed. In all
other vaults, such as those of the city gates, the units are laid upon their longest sides,
and a vertical section shows their shortest diameters. Here, on the other hand, the bricks
stand on their edges, and their largest surfaces are in contact, on each side, with the next
vertical course. If the full benefit of the natural cohesion between one brick and another
was to be obtained, this method of laying them was absolutely necessary.

Internally, the drain we have been studying was four feet eight inches high from the floor
to the crown of the vault. Its width was three feet nine inches, and its general slope very
slight. It may be followed for a total length of about 220 feet, after which falls of earth
have carried away the arch and the whole northern part of the esplanade, so that no trace of
the mouth by which it opened on the plain can be traced.

The other sewer described by M. Place may be more summarily dismissed. In spite of their drawings
and minute descriptions, explorers have not yet succeeded in explaining the eccentricities
of construction it presents. It has two channels, one above the other, which are similar neither
in slope nor section. Moreover this double sewer is abruptly interrupted in the middle of the
artificial mound through which it runs. Must we believe that it was never finished or used?
We shall not attempt to answer this question, but shall content ourselves with pointing to
the similarities between this tunnel and the last described. The same large stone slabs upon
a layer of bitumen, the same inclination of the body of the vault, the same bricks formed in
different moulds according to their place in the vault, are found in each.

Our Fig. 93 shows the two channels and their position one above the other. The pavement of
the terrace, which consists of a double bed of large bricks, rests upon the extrados of the
upper channel. This vault is semicircular; it has three voussoirs on each side, which, with
the key, make seven in each vertical course. But in consequence either of an error in measurement
or of a mistake in calculating the shrinking of the bricks, there was a gap between the third
voussoir on the right and the key. This gap was filled in by the insertion of a stone cut into
the shape of a wedge. But for this fault--which, however, had no appreciable effect upon its
solidity--the vault would be perfect.[290] The narrow triangular opening of the lower channel
may be seen below it.

The semicircular vault gradually and insensibly changes into an elliptical one. The side walls
become lower, at each yard their height is diminished by the thickness of a brick, and finally
they disappear about the middle of the total length. At the point shown in our Fig. 94 the
arch has lost its supports and rests directly upon the pavement of the channel. Its ellipse
is composed of eight voussoirs, four on each side, and a key with a small wedge-shaped stone
voussoir on each side of it. Between the two points shown in our Figs. 93 and 94 the upper
and lower sewers have become one, the vaulted roof of the first and the paved floor of the
second being continued in a single tunnel. At the point where this tunnel comes to a sudden
end it is closed by a wall, through which two small openings are pierced to serve as outlets
for the sewer within (Fig. 94).

At different points on the Khorsabad mound, M. Place found other sewers, some with depressed,
some with basket-handle vaults, while, at Nimroud, channels were discovered which were square
in section and covered with large slabs of limestone.[291] The Assyrian architects seem, however,
to have had a decided preference for the vault in such a situation. They expected it to give
greater solidity, and in that they were not mistaken. The vaults of burnt brick, though set
without cement, have remained unshaken and close in their joints, and the sewers they inclose
are the only voids that have remained clear in the ruins of the buildings to which they belong.

We may, perhaps, be accused of dwelling too minutely upon these Assyrian vaults. We have done
so because there is no question more interesting or more novel in the whole history of architecture
than the true origin of the keyed vault and the different uses to which it has been put. Ottfried
Müller looked upon the Etruscans as the inventors of the vault; he believed that the Greek
builders learnt the secret from the early inhabitants of Italy,[292] and that the arches of
the Roman Cloaca Maxima built by the Tuscan architects of the Tarquins, were the oldest that
had come down to us from antiquity. The archæological discoveries of the last fifty years have
singularly falsified his opinion and given an age to the vault never before suspected. Even
in the days of the Ancient Empire the Egyptians seem to have understood its principle; in any
case the architects of Amenophis, of Thothmes, of Rameses, made frequent and skilful use of
it long before the Ninevite palaces in which we have found it were erected.[293] But the possession
of stones of enormous size enabled the Egyptians to dispense to a great extent with the arch,
and we need not be surprised, therefore, that they failed to give it anything like its full
development. They kept it in the background, and while using it when necessary in their tombs,
in the outbuildings of their temples, in their private dwellings and warehouses, they never
made it a conspicuous element of their architectural system. They may well be admired for the
majesty of their colonnades and the magnificence of their hypostyle halls, but not for the
construction of their vaults, for the imitation of which, moreover, they gave little opportunity.

In Chaldæa and Assyria the conditions were different. Supposing the architecture of those two
countries to be yet entire, should we find in it vaults rivalling in age the arch in a tomb
at Abydos which Mariette attributes to the sixth dynasty?[294] Probably not. So far as we can
judge, Chaldæan civilization does not date from so remote a past as that of Egypt, but it appears
certain that the principles of the vault were discovered and put in practice by the Chaldees
long before the comparatively modern times in which the segmental and pointed arches of Nineveh
were erected. The latter alone are preserved because they have been hidden during all these
centuries under the heaped-up ruins of the buildings to which they belonged, while those of
Chaldæa have been carried away piece by piece, and their materials used again and again by
the modern population of Mesopotamia.

In spite, however, of the absence of such direct evidence, we may affirm without fear that
the Chaldæan architects soon discovered the principle of the arch, and used it at least in
its simplest and least complex forms. We are led to these conclusions not only by their restriction
to small units of construction--a restriction which is sure, sooner or later, to lead to the
discovery in question--but also by induction from the monuments we have just been studying.
The arches under the hanging gardens of Babylon, the vaults of the sewers and gateways, the
domes that covered the great square chambers in the Ninevite palaces--all these were derived,
we may be sure, from the ancient civilization. We cannot believe that such consummate skill
in the management of a difficult matter was arrived at in a day. The purely empiric knowledge
of statics it implies could only have been accumulated by a long series of more or less happy
experiments.

Thus only can we explain the ease with which the Assyrian builder surmounted difficulties some
of which would have puzzled a modern architect, such as the pisé vaults erected over spacious
galleries without any kind of centering, and the domes over square chambers, for which some
system of pendentives--that is, of arches or other intermediate forces--by which the base of
the cupola could be allied to the top of the supporting wall, must have been contrived. The
accurate calculation of forces between the thrust of the vaults and the strength of the retaining
walls, the dexterity with which the curves employed are varied and carried insensibly one into
the other, the skill with which the artificial materials are prepared for their appointed office,
are also surprising. By careful moulding and manipulation the Assyrian builder made his brick
voussoirs as well fitted for their work as the cut stone of our day. Each brick had its own
shape and size, so that it was assigned in advance a particular place in the vault and its
own part in assuring the final stability of the building. In all this we cannot avoid seeing
the results of a patient and long-continued process of experiment and education carried on
through many centuries in all the workshops of Mesopotamia.

The art of building vaults with small units of construction was, then, carried farther in Mesopotamia
than in Egypt; it was there more frankly developed; it was there forced with greater success
to supply the place of stone and timber. It was in fact more of an indigenous art in the valley
of the Tigris and Euphrates than anywhere else, more inspired by the permanent and unchanging
conditions of the country--in a word, more national.

In these days the historian sets himself with devotion to follow in all its involutions the
long chain of thought and effort by which man has been led from his primitive barbarism to
the well-being of modern civilization, and to his domination--every day more complete and more
intelligent--over the minor forces of nature. It is the duty of criticism, as its methods gradually
perfect themselves, to add daily to its perspicacity and powers of observation, and to lessen
as much as possible the occasions, still so numerous, when the thread of evidence breaks in
its hands and the true relations of facts to each other become obscured. Even yet we cannot
say for certain to which nation of the ancient world the invention of the arch belongs. In
those remote ages the principle may have been discovered more than once or twice in different
and distant countries whose inhabitants were busied over the same task. We have no reason to
believe that Chaldæa learnt the secret from Egypt, or Etruria from the East. It is none the
less true, however, that the unknown architects of Babylon and Nineveh made full use of it
at an earlier date and in more intelligent fashion than any of their rivals. To them must be
given the credit of being the masters and art-ancestors of the men who built the Pantheon and
the Church of Saint Sophia, Santa Maria del Fiore, and Saint Peter's in Rome, and more especially
of those great modern engineers to whom the principle of the arch has been a chief element
in their success.

NOTES:

[280] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. p. 82.

[281] This chamber is 7 feet long, 3 feet 7 inches wide, and 5 feet high. TAYLOR, Journal of
the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xv. p. 272.

[282] STRABO, xvi. 1, 5. DIODORUS, ii. 10.

[283] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 170-182 and 256-259, vol. iii. plates 9-18.

[284] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plate 2.

[285] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 128.

[286] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. p. 134; vol. ii. pp. 79 and 261. Discoveries, pp. 162-165.

[287] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 269-280 and plates 38 and 39.

[288] We have endeavoured to combine M. Thomas's longitudinal elevation, vertical section,
and transverse section (PLACE, Ninive, plate 38), in our single cut.

[289] The same process was employed at Nimroud in a drain or water channel, of which LAYARD
gives a sketch (Discoveries, p. 164). In connection with these vaults we must remember that
a pointed arch has no key properly speaking; the top stone is merely a joint. It looks as if
the Assyrian architect had a kind of instinctive appreciation of the fact.

[290] The slope, the height, and the width of this channel are not the same throughout. In
some places it is wide enough to allow two men to walk abreast in it.

[291] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. p. 79.

[292] OTTFRIED MÜLLER, Handbuch der Archäologie der Kunst, § 107 and 168 (3rd edition).

[293] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 112, and vol. ii. chap. ii. § 4.

[294] Ibid. vol. ii. fig. 44.

§ 6.--Secondary Forms.

(Doors, windows, steles, altars, obelisks, mouldings.)

We have been obliged to dwell at length on the arch and the column because those two elements
of construction are of the greatest importance to all who wish to gain a true idea of Mesopotamian
art and of its influence upon neighbouring peoples and over subsequent developments of architecture.
On the other hand we shall have very little to say upon what, in speaking of Egyptian art,
we called secondary forms.[295]

We have already had occasion to speak of some of these, such as windows and doors. We have
explained how the nature of his materials and the heat of the climate led the architect to
practically suppress the former, while, on the other hand, he gave extravagant dimensions to
the latter. It was to the door that the rooms had mainly to look for the light and air, with
which they could not entirely dispense. We have now to give a few details as to the fashion
in which these large openings were set in the walls that enframed them. As for salient decorative
members--or mouldings, to give them their right name--their list is very short. We shall, however,
find them in some variety in a series of little monuments that deserve, perhaps, more attention
than they have yet received--we mean altars, steles, and those objects to which the name of
obelisks has, with some inaccuracy, been given. Some of these objects have no little grace
of their own, and serve to prove that what the Chaldæans and Assyrians lacked was neither taste
nor invention, but the encouragement that the possession of a kindly material would have given
to their genius.

Doorways seem to have been generally crowned with a brick archivolt; round-headed doors occur
oftener than any others on the bas-reliefs, but rectangular examples are not wanting (see Fig.
43). In the latter case the lintel must have been of wood, metal, or stone. Naturally the bronze
and timber lintels have disappeared, while in but a single instance have the explorers found
one of stone, namely that discovered by George Smith at the entrance to a hall in the palace
of Sennacherib (Fig. 95). It consists of a block of richly carved limestone. Its sculptures
are now much worn, but their motives and firm execution may still be admired. Two winged dragons,
with long necks folded like that of a swan, face each other, the narrow space between them
being occupied by a large two-handled vase. Above these there is a band of carved foliage,
the details of which are lost in the shadow cast by a projecting cornice along the top of the
lintel.[296] The necklace round the throat of the right-hand dragon should be noticed.

It is surprising that stone lintels are so rare, especially as the corresponding piece, if
we may call it so, namely, the sill or threshold, was generally of limestone or alabaster,
at least in the more important and more richly-decorated rooms.

The exploration of the Assyrian palaces has brought three systems of flooring to light--beaten
earth, brick pavements, and pavements of limestone slabs.[297] In the palace of Sargon nearly
every chamber, except those of the harem, had a floor of beaten earth, like that in a modern
fellah's house. Even the halls in which the painted and sculptured decoration was most sumptuous
were no exceptions to this rule. There is nothing in this, however, to surprise those who have
lived in the East; like the Turks, Arabs, and Persians of our own time, the Chaldæans and Assyrians
were shod, except when fighting or hunting, with those babooshes or sandals that are so often
figured in the bas-reliefs. These must have been taken off, as they are to-day, before entering
a temple, a palace, or a harem. Moses was required to take off his shoes before approaching
the burning bush, because the place on which he stood was holy ground. In the houses of their
gods, in those of their kings and rich men, the floor would be covered with those rich carpets
and mats that from one end of the East to the other conceal from sight the floors of white
wood or beaten earth. In summer the mats are fresh and grateful to the bare feet, in the winter
the carpets are soft and warm. The floors themselves are hardly ever seen, so that we need
feel no surprise at their being left without ornament. So, too, was it in all probability in
the palaces of Sargon and of other kings, and in the sacred buildings.

Elsewhere, however, we find a pavement constructed with the most scrupulous care, and consisting
of three distinct parts,--two layers of large bricks with a thick bed of sand interposed between
them. The lower course of bricks is set in a bed of bitumen which separates it from the earth
and prevents any dampness passing either up or down. This system of paving was used in most
of the harem chambers at Khorsabad as well as in the open courts and upon the terraces. Lastly,
in certain rooms of the seraglio and harem, in a few of the courts, in the vestibules, before
the gates of the city, and in paths across wide open spaces, a limestone pavement has been
found. Wherever this pavement exists, the stones are of the same kind and placed in the same
manner. The limestone is exactly similar to that in the retaining walls described on page 147.
The stones are often more than three feet square, and from two feet six inches to two feet
ten inches thick. Their shape is not that of a regular solid; it is more like a reversed cone,
the base forming the pavement and the narrow end being buried in the ground. These stones are
simply placed side by side without the use of mortar or cement of any kind, but their weight
and peculiar shape gave a singular durability to the pavement for which they were used.

Most of the sills belong to this class. And in Assyria where doorways were several yards deep
and two or three wide, these sills were in reality the pavements of passages or even chambers.[298]

The materials for these pavements were always different from those of the floors on each side
of them. In the entrances to the brick-paved courts large stones were used; in the passages
between rooms floored with beaten earth bricks were introduced. The stone thresholds were mostly
alabaster like the sculptured slabs upon the chamber walls. As a rule they were of a single
piece, the great extent of surface, sometimes as much as ten or eleven square yards, notwithstanding.
In the entries flanked by the winged bulls the sills were carved with inscriptions, which were
comparatively rare elsewhere. Sometimes we find a rich and elaborate ornamentation in place
of the wedges; it is made up of geometrical forms and conventional foliage and flowers; the
figures of men and animals are never introduced. Such an arrangement was in better taste than
the mosaic thresholds of the Romans where men were shown in pictures destined to be trodden
under foot. The Assyrian carver doubtless took his designs from the carpets in the adjoining
chambers.

]

A good idea of these designs may be formed from the slab figured below. The centre is occupied
by a number of interlacing circles, betraying no little skill on the part of the ornamentist.
The "knop and flower" border of alternately closed and shut lotus flowers is separated from
the centre by a band of rosettes. The whole is distinguished by thought and a severe taste.
The indented corners, where the pivots of the doors were placed, and the slot for the lower
bolt of the door near the centre, should be noticed. These details prove that in this instance
the door was a double one. In other cases the absence of the slot and the presence of only
one pivot hole show that single doors were also used.[300] The doors always opened inwards,
being folded back either against the sides of the entry itself or against the walls of the chamber.

Many of these sills or thresholds show no sign of a pivot at either corner, whence we may conclude
that many of the openings were left without doors, and could only have been closed by those
suspended carpets or mats of which such ready use is made in hot countries.

In very magnificent buildings metal thresholds sometimes replaced those of stone or brick.
In the British Museum there is a huge bronze sill that was found in a ruined temple at Borsippa,
by Mr. Rassam. Its extreme length is sixty inches, its width twenty, and its thickness about
three and a half inches. It bears an inscription of Nebuchadnezzar the arrangement of which
proves that the sill when complete had double its present length, or about ten feet. Its upper
surface is decorated with large rosettes within square borders. We need hardly say that it
is a solid casting, and that its weight is, therefore, by no means trifling. The workmen who
put in place and those who cast it must both have thoroughly understood what they were about.
Even now, we are told, the latter operation would be attended by some difficulty.[301]

The founders who produced this casting could have no difficulty over the other parts of the
door-case, and we have no reason to doubt the statement of Herodotus, who thus ends his account
of how the walls of Babylon were built: "The walls had a hundred gates, all of bronze; their
jambs and lintels were of the same material."[302]

These lintels and jambs must have been, like the Borsippa threshold, of massive bronze, or
they would soon have been crushed by the weight they had to support. On the other hand, had
doors themselves been entirely of that metal it would have been very difficult if not impossible
to swing them upon their hinges, especially in the case of city gates like those just referred
to. It is probable, then, that they were of timber, covered and concealed by plates of bronze.
Herodotus indeed narrates what he saw, like a truthful and intelligent witness, but he was
not an archæologist, and it did not occur to him when he entered the famous city which formed
the goal of his travels, to feel the shining metal and find out how much of it was solid and
how much a mere armour for a softer substance behind.

From fragments found at Khorsabad, M. Place had already divined that the Assyrians covered
the planks of their doors with bronze plates, but all doubts on the point have been removed
by a recent discovery, which has proved once for all that art profited in the end by what at
first was nothing more than a protection against weather and other causes of deterioration.
In 1878 Mr. Hormuzd Rassam, the fellow traveller of Sir Henry Layard, found in the course of
his excavations in Assyria for the British Museum, some metallic bands covered with repoussé
reliefs and bearing the name of Shalmaneser III. (895-825). The site of this discovery was
Balawat, an artificial mound about fifteen miles to the east of Mossoul.[303] As soon as these
bands had been examined in London by competent archæologists, they were recognized as having
belonged to the leaves of a wooden door, which must have been nearly twenty-seven feet high
and about three inches thick. This latter dimension has been deduced from the length of the
nails used to keep the bands in place. At one end these bands were bent with the hammer round
the pivot to which each half of the door was attached. These pivots, judging from the bronze
feet into which they were "stepped," were about twelve inches in diameter.

It is easy to see from their shape how these feet were fixed and how they did their work (Fig.
97). The point of the cone was let into a hollow socket prepared for it in a block cut from
the hardest stone that could be found. Such a material would resist friction better and take
a higher polish than brick, so that it was at once more durable and less holding. Sockets of
flint, basalt, trachyte, and other volcanic rocks have been found in great numbers both in
Assyria and Chaldæa.[304] Instances of the use of brick in this situation are not wanting,[305]
however, and now and then the greenish marks left by the prolonged contact of metal have been
discovered in the hollows of these sockets.[306]

 British Museum.]

More than one method was in use for fixing the pivots of the doors and enabling them to turn
easily. Sir Henry Layard brought from Nimroud four heavy bronze rings which must have been
used to supplement these hollow sockets.[308] In one way or another bronze occupied a very
important place in the door architecture of the Assyrians. In those cases where it neither
supplied the door-case nor ornamented its leaves, it was at least used to fix the latter and
to enable them to turn.

In Assyrian façades doors had much greater importance than in those architectural styles in
which walls are broken up by numerous openings. Their great size, their rich and varied ornamentation,
the important figures in high relief with which the walls about them were adorned, the solemn
tints of bronze lighted up here and there by the glory of gold, the lively colours of the enamelled
bricks that formed their archivolts, and finally the contrast between the bare and gleaming
walls on either side and their depths of shadow--all these combined to give accent to the doorways
and to afford that relief to the monotony of the walls of which they stood in so great a need.
For Assyrian mouldings are even poorer than those of Egypt. The softness of crude brick, the
brittle hardness of burnt brick, are neither of them well disposed towards those delicate curves
by which a skilful architect contrives to break the sameness of a façade, and to give the play
of light and shadow which make up the beauty of a Greek or Florentine cornice.

The only mouldings encountered in Assyria have been found on a few buildings or parts of buildings
in which stone was employed. We may quote as an instance the retaining wall of the small, isolated
structure excavated by Botta towards the western angle of the Khorsabad mound, and by him believed
to be a temple.[309] The wall in question is built of a hardish grey limestone, the blocks
being laid alternately as stretchers and headers. The wall is complete with plinth, die and
cornice (Figs. 98 and 99). The latter is a true cornice, composed of a small torus or bead,
a scotia, and a fillet. The elements are the same as those of the Egyptian cornice, except
in the profile of the hollow member, which is here a scotia and in Egypt a cavetto, to speak
the language of modern architects. The Egyptian moulding is at once bolder and more simple,
while the vertical grooves cut upon its surface give it a rich and furnished aspect that its
Assyrian rival is without.[310]

We have another example of Assyrian mouldings on the winged sphinx found by Layard at Nimroud
(Fig. 85)--the sphinx, that is, that bore a column on its back. In section this moulding may
be compared to a large scotia divided into two cavettos by a torus. Its effect is not happy.
The Assyrians had too little experience in stone-cutting to enable them to choose the most
satisfactory proportions and profiles for mouldings.

We may also point to the entablatures upon the small pavilions reproduced in our Figs. 41 and
42. They are greatly wanting in elegance; in one especially--that shown in Fig. 42--the superstructure
is very heavy in proportion to the little temple itself and its columns.

The only moulding, if we may call it so, borrowed by Assyria from Chaldæa, and employed commonly
in both countries, is a brick one. Loftus was the first to point it out. He discovered it in
the ruined building, doubtless an ancient temple, in the neighbourhood of Warka, and called
by the natives Wuswas. This is his description:--"Upon the lower portion of the building are
groups of seven half-columns repeated seven times--the rudest perhaps which were ever reared,
but built of moulded semicircular bricks, and securely bonded to the wall. The entire absence
of cornice, capital, base or diminution of shafts, so characteristic of other columnar architecture,
and the peculiar and original disposition of each group in rows like palm logs, suggest the
type from which they sprang."[311]

With his usual penetration, Loftus divines and explains the origin of these forms. The idea
must have been suggested, he thinks, by the palm trunks that were used set closely together
in timber constructions, or at regular intervals in mud walls. In either case half of their
thickness would be visible externally, and would naturally provoke imitation from architects
in search of ornament for the bald faces of their clay structures.[312]

As to the effect thus obtained, the rough sketch given by Loftus hardly enables us to decide
(see Fig. 100). From Assyria, however, come better materials for a judgment. We there often
find these perpendicular ribs, generally in groups of seven, in buildings that have been carefully
studied and illustrated upon a sufficient scale. We give an example from one of the harem gates
at Khorsabad (Fig. 101), by which we may see at once that an ornamental motive of no little
value was afforded by these huge vertical reeds with their play of alternate light and shadow,
and the happy contrast they set up between themselves and the brilliant hues of the painted
walls and enamelled bricks. The whole had a certain elegant richness that can hardly be appreciated
without the restoration, in every line and hue, of the original composition.

Both at Warka and in the Khorsabad harem, these vertical ribs are accompanied by another ornament
which may, perhaps, have been in even more frequent use. We mean those long perpendicular grooves,
rectangular in section, with which Assyrian and Chaldæan walls were seamed. In the harem wall
these grooves flank the group of vertical reeds right and left, dividing each of the angle
piers into two quasi-pilasters. At Warka they appear in the higher part of the façade, above
the groups of semi-columns. They serve to mark out a series of panels, of which only the lower
parts have been preserved. The missing parts of the decoration may easily be supplied by a
little study of the Assyrian remains. The four sides of the building at Khorsabad, called by
M. Place the Observatory, are decorated uniformly in this fashion. The general effect may be
gathered from our restoration of one angle. The architect was not content with decorating his
wall with these grooves alone; he divided it into alternate compartments, the one salient,
the next set back, and upon these compartments he ploughed the long lines of his decoration.
These changes of surface helped greatly to produce the varied play of light and shadow upon
which the architect depended for relief to the bare masses of his walls. The most ordinary
workmen could be trusted to carry out a decoration that consisted merely in repeating, at certain
measured intervals, as simple a form as can be imagined, and, in the language of art as in
that of rhetoric, there is no figure more effective in its proper place than repetition.

The necessity for something to break the monotony of the brick architecture was generally and
permanently felt, and in those Parthian and Sassanide periods in which, as we have said, the
traditions of the old Chaldæan school were continued, we find the panel replaced by wall arcades
in which the arches are divided from each other by tall pilasters. In general principle and
intention the two methods of decoration are identical.

The Egyptian architect had recourse to the same motive, first, in the tombs of the Ancient
Empire for the decoration of the chamber walls in the mastabas; secondly, for the relief of
great brick surfaces. The resemblance to the Mesopotamian work is sometimes very great.[313]

We have explained this form by one of the transpositions so frequent in the history of architecture,
namely, a conveyance of motives from carpentry to brickwork and masonry.[314] In the former
the openings left in the skeleton are gradually filled in, and these additions, by the very
nature of their materials, most frequently take the form of panels. The grooves that define
the panels in brick or stone buildings represent the intervals left by the carpenter between
his planks and beams. They could also be obtained very easily upon the smooth face of beams
brought into close contact, either by means of the gouge or some other instrument capable of
cutting into the wood. We may safely assert that in Chaldæa and Assyria, as in Egypt, it was
with carpentry that the motive in question originated.

On the other hand, if there be a form that results directly from the system of construction
on which it is used, that form is the crenellation with which, apparently, every building in
Mesopotamia was crowned.[315]

The Assyrian brickwork in which so many vast undertakings were carried out consists of units
all of one dimension, and bonded by the simple alternation of their joints. Supposing a lower
course to consist of two entire bricks, the one above it would be one whole brick flanked on
either side by a half brick. An Assyrian wall or building consists of the infinite repetition
of this single figure. Each whole brick lies upon the joint between two others, and every perpendicular
wall, including parapet or battlement, is raised upon this system.

Far from being modified by the crenellations, this bond regulates their form, dimensions, and
distribution. The crenellations of the palace walls consist of two rectangular masses, of unequal
size, placed one upon the other. The lower is two bricks'-length, or about thirty-two inches,
wide, and the thickness of three bricks, or about fourteen inches, high. The upper mass equals
the lower in height, while its width is the length of a single brick, or sixteen inches. The
total height of the battlement, between twenty-eight and twenty-nine inches, is thus divided
into two masses, one of which is twice the size of the other (see Fig. 104). The battlements
are all the same, and between each pair is a void which is nothing but the space a battlement
upside down would occupy. Fill this space with the necessary bricks, and a section of wall
would be restored identical in bond with that below the battlements, with the one exception
that the highest block of the battlement, being only one brick wide, is formed by laying three
whole bricks one upon the other.[316]

The crenellations we have been describing are those upon the retaining walls of Sargon's palace
at Khorsabad. Those of the Observatory are slightly different in that they are three stories
high instead of two (Fig. 105). The lowest is three bricks wide, the second three, the topmost
two. They are each three bricks high. Why were these battlements given a height beyond those
of the royal palace? That question may be easily answered. The crenellations of the observatory
were destined for a much more lofty situation than those of the palace. The base of the former
monument rose about 144 feet above the summit of the artificial hill upon which it was placed;
the total elevation was about 190 feet, a height at which ordinary battlements, especially
when for the most part they had nothing but the face of the higher stories to be relieved against,
would be practically invisible.

Whether composed of two or three stages this battlement was always inscribed within an isosceles
triangle; in fact, when a third story was added, the height and the width at the base increased
in the same proportions. M. Place lays great stress upon this triangle. He makes it cut the
upper angles of each of the superimposed rectangles, as we have done in our Figs. 104 and 105,
and he points out how such a process gives an outline similar to that of a palisade cut into
points at its summit, a precaution that is often taken to render the escalade of such an obstacle
more difficult, and M. Place is inclined to think that the idea of these crenellations was
suggested by those of a wooden palisade, a succession of rectangles being substituted for a
triangle in order to meet the special conditions of the new material. To us, however, it hardly
appears necessary to go back to the details of wooden construction to account for these forms.
We find no sign of M. Place's spiked palisades in the bas-reliefs. The inclosures of the Mesopotamian
fields must have consisted of palm trunks and strong reeds; planks were hardly to be cut from
the trees of the country. Moreover, the mason and bricklayer saw the forms of these battlements
repeated by their hand every instant. Whenever they began a fresh course the first brick they
placed upon the joint between two units of the course below was the first step towards a battlement.
The decoration obtained by the use of these battlements was not a survival from a previous
form, it was a natural consequence from the fundamental principle of Assyrian construction.

It has been thought that some of the buildings represented on the bas-reliefs have triangular
denticulation in place of the battlements figured on the last page;[317] and there are, in
fact, instances in the reliefs of walls denticulated like a palisade (see Fig. 38), but these
must not, we think, be taken literally. In most cases the chisel has been at the trouble to
show the real shapes of the battlements (Fig. 42), but in some instances, as in this, it has
been content to suggest them by a series of zig-zags. Here and there we may point out a picture
in stone which forms a transition between the two shapes, in Fig. 41 for example. Such an abbreviation
explains itself. It is, in fact, nothing more than an imitation of the real appearance of the
rectangular battlements when seen from a distance.[318]

The architect was not content with the mere play of light and shade afforded by these battlements.
He gave them a slight salience over the façade and a polychromatic decoration. About three
feet below the base of the crenellations the face of the wall was brought forward an inch or
two, so that the battlements themselves, and some eight or ten courses of bricks below them,
overhung the façade by that distance, forming a kind of rudimentary cornice (see Fig. 106).
In very elaborate buildings enamelled bricks were inserted between the battlements and this
cornice. These were decorated with white rosettes of different sizes upon a blue ground. The
explorers of Khorsabad encountered numberless fragments of these bricks and some whole ones
in the heaps of rubbish at the foot of the external walls. Their situation proved that they
had come from the top of the walls, and on the whole we may accept the restoration of M. Thomas,
which we borrow from the work of M. Place, as sufficiently justified (Fig. 106).[319]

This method of crowning a wall may seem poor when compared to the Greek cornice, or even to
that of Egypt, but in view of the materials with which he had to work, it does honour to the
architect. The long band of shadow near the summit of the façade, the bands of brilliantly
coloured ornament above it, and the rich play of light and shade among the battlements, the
whole relieved against the brilliant blue of an Eastern sky, must have had a fine effect. The
uniformity from which it suffered was a defect common to Mesopotamian architecture as a whole,
and one inseparable from the absence or comparative disuse of stone. But in the details we
have been studying we find yet another illustration of the skill with which these people corrected,
if we may so phrase it, the vices of matter, and by a frank use of their materials and insistence
upon those horizontal and perpendicular lines which they were best fitted to give, evolved
from it an architecture that proved them to have possessed a real genius for art.

The Assyrians seem to have been so pleased with these crenellations that they placed them upon
such small things as steles and altars. In one of the Kouyundjik reliefs (Fig. 42) there is
a small object--a pavilion or altar, its exact character is not very clearly shown--which is
thus crowned. Another example is to be found in a bas-relief from Khorsabad (Fig. 107).

We are thus brought to the subject of altars. These are sufficiently varied in form. In the
Kouyundjik bas-relief (Fig. 42) we find those shapes at the four angles which were copied by
the peoples of the Mediterranean, and led to the expression, "the horns of the altar." In the
Khorsabad relief (Fig. 107) the salience of these horns is less marked. On the other hand,
the die or dado below them is fluted. Another altar brought from Khorsabad to the Louvre is
quite different in shape (Fig. 108). It is triangular on plan. Above a plinth with a gentle
salience rises the altar itself, supported at each angle by the paw of a lion. The table is
circular, and decorated round the edge with cuneiform characters.

]

A third type is to be found in an altar from Nimroud, now in the British Museum (Fig. 109);
it dates from the reign of Rammanu-nirari, who appears to have lived in the first half of the
eighth century before our era.[321] The rolls at each end of this altar are very curious and
seem to be the prototype of a form with which the Græco-Roman sarcophagi have made us familiar.

The various kinds of steles are also very interesting. The most remarkable of all is one discovered
at Khorsabad by M. Place (Fig. 100). The shaft is composed of a series of perpendicular bands
alternately flat and concave, exactly similar to the flutes of the Ionic order. The summit
is crowned by a plume of palm leaves rising from a double scroll, like two consoles placed
horizontally and head to head. The grace and slenderness of this stele are in strong contrast
to the usually short and heavy forms affected by the Assyrian architects, especially when they
worked in stone. It is difficult to say what its destination may have been. It was discovered
lying in the centre of an outer court surrounded by offices and other subordinate buildings;
it has neither figure nor inscription.[322] The base was quite rough and shapeless, and must
have been sunk into the soil of the court, so that the flutes began at the level of the pavement.
M. Place suggests that it may have been a milliarium, from which all the roads of the empire
were measured. We do not know that there is a single fact to support such an unnecessary guess.

The stele of which we have been speaking is unique, but of another peculiarly Assyrian type
there is no lack of examples, namely, of that to which the name obelisk has, with some want
of discrimination, been applied. The Assyrian monoliths so styled are much shorter in their
proportions than the lofty "needles" of Egypt, while their summits, instead of ending in a
sharp pyramidion, are "stepped" and crowned with a narrow plateau. (Fig. 111.) These monoliths
were never very imposing in size, the tallest is hardly more than ten feet high.

 Height 78 inches. Drawn by Bourgoin.]

Whatever name we choose to give to these objects, there can be no doubt as to their purpose.
They are commemorative monuments, upon which both writer and sculptor have been employed to
celebrate the glory of the sovereign. A long inscription covers the base of the shaft, while
the upper part of each face is divided into five pictures, the narrow bands between them bearing
short legends descriptive of the scenes represented. It was, of course, important that such
figured panegyrics should be afforded the best possible chance of immortality; and we find
that most of these obelisks are composed of the hardest rocks. Of the four examples in the
British Museum, three are of basalt and one only of limestone.

Another type of stele in frequent employment was that with an arched top and inclosing an image
of the king. It is often represented on the bas-reliefs[324] (Fig. 42), and not a few examples
of it are in our museums. When we come to speak of Assyrian sculpture we shall have to reproduce
some of them. We find a motive of the same kind, but more ornate and complicated, in the bas-relief
from Kouyundjik figured above (Fig. 112). A hunting scene is carved on a wall of rock at the
top of a hill. A lion attacks the king's chariot from behind; the king is about to pierce his
head with an arrow while the charioteer leans over the horses and seems to moderate the determination
with which they fly.[325] The sculpture is surrounded by a frame arched at the top and inclosed
by an architrave with battlemented cornice. The whole forms a happily conceived little monument;
it is probable that it was originally accompanied by an explanatory inscription.

This analysis of what we have called secondary forms has shown how great was the loss of the
Chaldæan architect and of his too docile Assyrian pupil, in being deprived--by circumstances
on the one hand and want of inclination on the other--of such a material as stone. Without
it they could make use of none of those variations of plan and other contrivances of the same
kind by which the skilful architect suggests the internal arrangement of his structures on
their façades. For such purposes he had to turn to those constituents of his art to which we
shall devote our next section.

NOTES:

[295] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. ch. ii.

[296] GEORGE SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, pp. 146, 308, 429. This lintel has been fixed over
the south doorway into the Kouyundjik Gallery of the British Museum. When examined in place,
the running ornament in the hollow of the cornice will be easily recognized--in spite of the
mutilation of its upper edge--as made up of a modified form of the palmette motive, which had
its origin in the fan-shaped head of the date palm. The eight plumes of which the ornament
consists are each formed of three large leaves or loops and two small pendant ones, the latter
affording a means of connecting each plume with those next to it.--ED.

[297] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 295-302.

[298] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 302, 303.

[299] Two much better examples of this same work may be seen in the Assyrian basement-room
of the British Museum.--ED.

[300] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 314.

[301] We here quote the opinion of Mr. Ready, the well-known director of the museum workshops.
In April, 1882, he had examined this curious monument, which is now placed in the public galleries
close to the Balawat gates.

[302] HERODOTUS, ii. 179: Pylai de enestasi perix tou teicheos hekaton, chalkeai pasa kai stathmoi
te kai huperthuma hôsautôs.

[303] An account of the discovery and a short description of the remains, will be found in
an article by Mr. Theo. G. PINCHES, published in the Transactions of the Society of Biblical
Archæology, and entitled: The Bronze Gates discovered by Mr. Rassam at Balawat (vol. vii. part
i. pp. 83-118). The sculptured bronze from these gates is not all, however, in the British
Museum. Mr. Rassam's workmen succeeded in appropriating a certain number in the course of the
excavations, and thus M. Gustave Schlumberger has become possessed of a few pieces, while others
of much greater importance have come into the hands of M. de Clercq. M. F. LENORMANT has published
in the Gazette Archéologique (1878) a description of the pieces belonging to M. Schlumberger,
with two plates in heliogravure. We have already referred to the great work which is now in
course of publication by the Society of Biblical Archæology; it will put an exact reproduction
of this interesting monument in the hands of Assyriologists and those interested in the history
of art. We shall return to these gates when we come to treat of sculpture.

[304] A number of sockets found by M. de Sarzec in the ruins of Tello are now deposited in
the Louvre. M. PLACE found some at Khorsabad (Ninive, vol. i. p. 314), and Sir Henry LAYARD
on the sites of the towns in Upper Mesopotamia (Discoveries, p. 242). The British Museum has
a considerable number found in various places.

[305] In the same case as the Balawat gates there is a brick, which has obviously been used
for this purpose.

[306] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 314.

[307] In the British Museum there are some smaller bronze objects of the same kind from the
palace of Sennacherib. Others were found by M. PLACE in the palace of Sargon (Ninive, plate
70, fig. 6), so that they must have been in frequent use.

[308] LAYARD (Discoveries, p. 163) gives a sketch of one of these objects. Its internal diameter
is about five inches, and its weight 6 lbs. 3-3/4 oz. These rings are now in the British Museum.

[309] BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. v. pp. 53-55.

[310] BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, plates 149 and 150. See also LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 131,
and FERGUSSON, History of Architecture, vol. i. p. 185 (2nd edition).

[311] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, p. 175.

[312] M. Place offers a similar explanation of the engaged columns that were found in many
parts of the palace at Khorsabad (Ninive, vol. ii. p. 50). He has brought together in a single
plate all the examples of pilasters and half columns that he encountered in that edifice. Similar
attempts to imitate the characteristic features of a log house are found in many of the most
ancient Egyptian tombs. See Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. p. 62 and fig. 37.

[313] See, for instance, in Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. figs. 123, 124, 201, and in vol.
ii. pp. 55-64, and figs. 35-37 and 139.

[314] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 117.

[315] We here give a résumé of M. PLACE'S observations on this point. He made a careful study
of these crenellations. Ninive, vol. ii. pp. 53-57.

[316] See M. PLACE'S diagrams, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 54.

[317] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 53.

[318] M. Perrot dismisses the evidence of those who believe in a palisade origin of the Assyrian
battlements in what is, perhaps, rather too summary a fashion. The fact is that the great majority
of the crenellated buildings in the reliefs have triangular battlements, while the theory that
they are merely a hasty way of representing the stepped crenellations is to some extent discredited
by their frequent occurrence side by side with the latter on the same relief. The Balawat gates,
for instance, contain some nine or ten examples of the triangular, and four or five of the
stepped, shape. In the series of sculptured slabs representing the siege of a city by Assurnazirpal
(10 to 15 in the Kouyundjik gallery at the British Museum), there are examples of both forms,
and in more than one instance the triangular battlements are decorated with lines and rosettes--similar
in principle to those shown above in fig. 106--that can hardly be reconciled with the notion
that their form is the result of haste on the part of the artist. In the Assyrian Basement
Room in the British Museum there is an interesting bas-relief representing Assyrian soldiers
busy with the demolition of a fortified wall, probably of some city just taken. The air is
thick with the materials thrown down from its summit, among them a great number of planks or
beams, which seem to suggest that timber was freely employed in the upper works of an Assyrian
wall. If this was so, the pointed battlements in the reliefs may very well represent those
in which timber was used, and the stepped ones their brick imitations. Both forms were used
as decorations in places where no real battlements could have existed, as, for instance, on
the tent of Sennacherib, in the well-known bas-relief of the siege of Lachish (see fig. 56).--ED.

[319] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 85.

[320] There is an altar almost exactly similar to this in the British Museum. It was found
in front of the temple of the War God, Nimroud.--ED.

[321] Upon some other monuments brought from the same place by Mr. Hormuzd Rassam, and also
exhibited in the Nimroud central saloon, we may read by the side of Rammanu-nirari's name that
of his spouse Sammuramat, who seems to have been associated with him in the government, and
to have been the recipient of particular honours. The name of this princess has caused some
to recognize in her the fabulous Semiramis of the Greek writers. In consequence of facts that
have escaped us she may well have furnished the first idea for the romantic legends whose echo
has come down to our times.

[322] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 96; vol. ii. pp. 71-73.

[323] Besides the obelisk of Shalmaneser II., which is in a marvellous state of preservation,
the British Museum possesses three other objects of the same kind. Two of these were made for
Assurnazirpal; the third, the most ancient of all, dates from the time of Tiglath Pileser I.;
unhappily only fragments of it remain.

[324] See also BOTTA, Monument de Ninive, vol. i. plate 64. We here find an instance of one
of these arched steles erected before a fortress.

[325] ?--ED.

§ 7.--Decoration.

Mesopotamia was no exception to the general rule that decoration is governed by construction.
To take only one example, and that from an art we have already studied, the Egyptian temple
was entirely of stone, and its decoration formed a part of the very substance of what we may
call the flesh and blood of the edifice. The elements of that rich and brilliant decoration
are furnished by those mouldings which make up in vigour what they lack in variety, by the
slight relief or the hardly perceptible intaglio of the shadowless figures cut by the sculptor
in stone, and covered by the painter with the liveliest colours. This sumptuous decoration,
covering every external and internal surface, may no more be detached from it than the skin
of an animal may be detached from its muscles. The union is even more intimate in this case,
the adherence more complete. So long as the Egyptian walls remain standing, the blocks of limestone,
sandstone, or granite of which they are composed, can never be entirely freed from the images,
that is, from the expression of the thoughts, cut upon them by the men of forty centuries ago.

In Assyria the case was different. There buildings were of brick, each unit being in the vast
majority of cases a repetition of its neighbour. In very few instances were the bricks of special
shapes, and the buildings in which they were used could only be decorated by attached ornament,
similar in principle to the mats and hangings we spread over the floors and walls that we wish
to hide. This result they obtained in one of two ways; they either cased their walls in stone,
an expensive and laborious process, or they covered them with a decoration of many colours.

As soon as stone came into use, it must have offered an irresistible temptation to the chisel
of the sculptor and the ornamentist; and so we nearly always find it decorated with carvings.
Sometimes, as in the lintel and thresholds described above (Figs. 95 and 96), the motives are
purely ornamental. Elsewhere, in the gates of the Assyrian palaces, and in the plinths of the
walls that surround their courts and halls, we find both figures in the round and in low relief.
In a future chapter we shall attempt to define the style of these works and to determine their
merit. For the present we must be content with pointing out the part played by sculpture in
the general system of decoration.

In Chaldæa sculpture must have played a very feeble part in the ensemble of a building, stone
was too costly in consequence of the distance it had to be carried. From the ruins of Chaldæa
no colossi, like those which flanked the entrances of the Ninevite palaces, none of those long
inscriptions upon alabaster slabs which have been of such value for the student of Assyrian
history, have been brought. This latter material and all the facilities it offered to the sculptor
was apparently entirely neglected by the Chaldæans. In Lower Mesopotamia the hard volcanic
rocks were chiefly used. They were preferred, no doubt, for their durability, but they were
little fitted for the execution of figures of any size, and especially was it impossible to
think of using them for such historic bas-reliefs as those upon which the Assyrians marshalled
hundreds, or rather thousands, of busy figures. Chaldæan doorways may, however, have been sometimes
flanked with lions and bulls,[326] we are indeed tempted to assign to such a position one monument
which has been described by travellers, namely, the lion both Rich and Layard saw half buried
in the huge ruin at Babylon called the Kasr.[327] It is larger than life. It stands upon a
plinth, with its paws upon the figure of a struggling man. There is a circular hole in its
jaw bigger than a man's fist. The workmanship is rough; so too, perhaps, is that of the basalt
lion seen by Loftus at Abou-Sharein. This latter is about fifty-four inches high and its original
place may very well have been before one of the doorways of the building.[328]

Of all animal forms, that of the lion was the first to afford materials for decorative composition
of any value, and even after all the centuries that have passed, the lion has not lost his
vogue in the East. We might, if we chose, multiply examples of this persistence, but we shall
be content with quoting one. In the centre of Asia Minor, at the village of Angora, in which
I passed three months of the year 1861, I encountered these lions at every turn. A short distance
off, in the village of Kalaba, there was a fountain of Turkish construction in which a lion,
quite similar in style to those of Assyria, had been inserted.[329] In the court of a mosque
there was a lion in the round, a remarkable work by some Græco-Roman sculptor.[330] There and
in other towns of Asia Minor, lions from the Seljukian period are by no means rare, and even
now they are made in considerable numbers. After the labours of the day we sometimes passed
the evenings in the villas of the rich Greek merchants, which were nearly all on the east of
the town. Most of these houses were of recent construction, and were filled with mirrors, fine
carpets, and engravings. In front of the house, and in the centre of a large paved and trellised
court, there were fountains, sometimes ornamented with considerable taste, in which, on great
occasions, a slender jet of water would give coolness to the air. The angles of nearly every
one of these fountains were marked with small white marble lions, heavy and awkward in shape,
but nevertheless considered at Angora to be the last word of art. They are imported from Constantinople
together with the basins of the fountains.

In spite of all this, however, some doubts may be felt as to the destination of the lions found
among the Chaldæan ruins. The only monument there discovered which seems to have certainly
belonged to an architectural decoration is one found by Sir Henry Layard in his too soon interrupted
explorations in the Kasr. It is a fragment of a limestone slab from the casing of a façade
(Fig. 113). The upper parts of two male figures support a broken entablature beneath which
the name of some divinity is cut.[331]

The chief interest of this fragment lies in the further evidence it affords of a close connection
between the arts of Chaldæa and those of Babylon. There is nothing either in the costume or
features of these individuals that may not be found in Assyria. The tiara with its plumes and
rosettes, the crimped hair and beard, the baton with its large hilt, are all common to both
countries, while the latter object is to be found on the rocks of Bavian and as far north as
the sculptures of Cappadocia.

A study of those reliefs in which nothing but purely ornamental motives are treated, leads
us to exactly the same conclusion. Take for instance the great bronze threshold from Borsippa,
of which we have already spoken; the rosettes placed at intervals along its tread are identical
with those encountered in such numbers in Assyria.

In the extreme rarity of stone in his part of the world the Chaldæan architect seems to have
practically reserved it for isolated statues, for votive bas-reliefs, for objects of an iconic
or religious character, but nevertheless, we have sufficient evidence to prove that such decorative
sculpture as found a place in the Chaldæan buildings, did not sensibly differ from that to
which Assyria has accustomed us.

From all that we have said as to the distribution of stone, it will be understood that we must
turn to Assyria to obtain a clear idea of the measures by which buildings of crude brick were
rendered more sightly by ornament in the harder material. We can hardly imagine an Assyrian
palace without those series of bas-reliefs which now line the walls of our museums much in
the same fashion as they covered those of Sargon's and Sennacherib's palaces, and yet it is
unlikely that in the beginning the Assyrian palaces had these carved walls. The casing of stone
and alabaster must have been originally employed for more utilitarian purposes--to hide the
grey and friable material within, to protect it from damage, and to offer a surface to the
eye which should at least be inoffensive. The upper parts of the walls would be covered with
a coat of stucco, which could be renewed whenever necessary, but for the lower part, for all
that was within reach of the crowds that frequented the public halls of the seraglio, who passed
through its gates or those of the city itself, some more efficient protection would be required.
The constructor was thus led to encase the lower parts of his walls in a cuirass of stone imposed
upon their brick cores. The slabs of which he made use for this purpose varied between three
and ten feet in height, and between six and fifteen in width. Their average thickness was about
eight inches.

The way in which these slabs were fixed is hardly worthy of such clever builders, and, in fact,
the Assyrians seem to have never succeeded in mastering the difficulties inherent in the association
of two heterogeneous materials. The slabs were of gypsum or limestone, the wall of pisé, materials
which are not to be easily combined. The Assyrians contented themselves with simply placing
the one against the other. No trace of any tie is to be found. A "tooth" has been given to
the inner faces of the slabs by seaming them in every direction with the chisel, and, perhaps,
some plastic substance may at the last moment have been introduced between them and the soft
clay, but no trace of any other contrivance for keeping the two materials together has been
found. After the general mass of the building--its clay walls and vaults--were complete, a
different class of workmen was brought in to line its chambers and complete their decoration.
The crude brick would by that time have become dry, and no longer in a condition to adapt itself
to the roughnesses of the alabaster slabs. The liquid clay, like that of an earthenware "body,"
wets and softens the surface of the brick while it enters into every hollow of the stone and
so allies the one with the other. We recommend this conjecture to those who may undertake any
future excavation in Assyria. It lies with them to confirm or refute it.

However this may have been, the constructor made use of more than one method of giving greater
solidity to his walls as a whole. His slabs were not only let into each other at the angles,
in some chambers there were squared angle pieces of a diameter great enough to allow them to
sink more deeply into the crude brick behind, and thus to offer steady points of support in
each corner. Finally the separate slabs were held together at the top by leaden dovetails like
the metal clamps used to attach coping stones to each other.

Such precautions were rendered comparatively useless by the fact that the whole work was faulty
at the base. Halls and chambers had no solid foundation or pavement, so that the heavy slabs
of their decoration rested upon a shifting soil, quite incapable of carrying them without flinching.
In many places they sank some inches into the ground, the soft earth behind pushing them forward,
and in their fall the row to which they belonged was inevitably involved. The excavators have
again and again found whole lines of bas-reliefs that appeared to have fallen together. Such
an accident is a thing for posterity to rejoice over. Prone upon a soft and yielding soil the
works of the sculptor are better protected than when standing erect, their upper parts clear,
perhaps, of the ruin that covers their feet, and exposed to the weather at least, and, too
often, to the brutality of an ignorant population.

Such defects are sufficient to prove that these slabs were never meant to carry any great weight;
far from affording a support to the wall behind, they required one to help them in maintaining
their own equilibrium. On the other hand they protected it, as we have said above, from too
rapid deterioration.

At Khorsabad this stone casing is in very bad condition at many points, in the halls and passages
of the outbuildings and in the courtyards adjoining the city gates for instance.[332] There
the stones are only smoothed down, and their obvious purpose is merely to protect the crude
brick within. The purely architectural origin of this system of casing is thus clearly shown.

But the presence of these slabs set upright against the wall offered a temptation to the ambitious
architect that he was not likely to resist. The limestone and alabaster of which they were
composed afforded both a kindly surface for the chisel, and a certain guarantee of duration
for the forms it struck out. In every Assyrian palace we may see that the king, its builder,
had a double object in view, the glorification of the gods, and the transmission to posterity
of his own image and the memory of his reign. To these ends the architect called in the sculptor,
under whose hands the rudely dressed slabs took the historic forms with which we are familiar.

Of all parts of the palace the doorways were most exposed to injury from the shocks of traffic,
and we find their more solid plinths surmounted by higher and thicker slabs than are to be
found elsewhere. These slabs are carved with the images of protecting divinities. Huge winged
and man-headed bulls (Plate X)[333] or lions (Fig. 114), the speaking symbols of force and
thought, met the approaching visitor. Sometimes a lion, reproducing with singular energy the
features of the real beast, was substituted for the human-headed variety (Plate VIII).[334]

These guardians of the gate always had the front part of their bodies salient in some degree
from the general line of the wall. The head and breast, at least, were outside the arch. Right
and left of the passage were very thick slabs, also carved into the form of winged bulls in
profile, and accompanied by protecting genii. These latter divinities are sometimes grave and
noble in mien, obviously benevolent (Figs. 8 and 29), sometimes hideous in face, and violent
in gesture. In the latter case they are meant to frighten the profane or the hostile away from
the dwelling they guard (Figs. 6 and 7). All these figures are in much higher relief than the
sculptures in the inner chambers.

All this shows that the sculptor thoroughly understood how to make the best of his opportunities
when he was once called in to ornament those massive door-frames and slabs which at first were
no more than additional supports for the building to which they were applied. He varied the
shapes of these blocks according to their destined sites, and increased their size so as to
give gigantic proportions to his man-headed bulls and lions. Some of the winged bulls are from
sixteen to seventeen feet high.[335] In spite of the labour expended upon the carving and putting
in place of these huge figures, they are extremely numerous, hardly less so, indeed, than the
Osiride piers of Egypt.[336] In the palace of Sargon at Khorsabad, twenty-six pairs have been
counted; in that of Sennacherib at Kouyundjik, there were ten upon a single façade.[337]

In those passages, halls, and courtyards, whose destination justified such a luxury, the sculptor
utilized the stone lining of the walls with equal skill, but in a slightly different spirit.
The figures on the façade had to be seen from a great distance, and were exposed to the full
light of the Mesopotamian sun, so that their colossal proportions and the varied boldness of
their relief had an obvious justification. The sculptures in the interior were smaller in scale
and were strictly bas-reliefs. With the shortening of the distance from which they could be
examined, their scale was made to conform more closely to the real stature of human beings.
In some very spacious halls a few of the figures are larger than life, while in the narrowest
galleries they become very small, the alabaster slabs being divided into two stories or more
(see Fig. 115).[338]

There is another singularity to be noticed apropos of these sculptures. The themes treated
outside are very different from those inside the palaces. The figures in the former position
are religious and supernatural, those in the interior historical and anecdotic. There is much
variety in the details of these narrative sculptures, but their main theme is always the glorification,
and, in a sense, the biography of the sovereign.

In the Egyptian temple the figures which form its illumination are spread indifferently over
the whole surface of the walls. In a Greek temple, on the other hand, sculpture was confined
with rare exceptions to the upper part of the building, to the pediments chiefly, and the frieze.
The Assyrian method was neither that of the Egyptians nor that of the Greeks. At Nineveh, the
sculptor did not, as in Egypt, sow his figures broadcast over the whole length and breadth
of the building, neither did he raise them, as in Greece, above the heads of the crowd; he
marshalled them upon the lowest part of a wall, upon its plinth. Their feet touched the soil,
their eyes were on a level with those that looked at them; we might say that they formed an
endless procession round every hall and chamber. The reasons for such an arrangement are to
be sought for, not in any æsthetic tendency of the Assyrian artist, but in the simple fact
that only in the stone cuirass, within which the lower parts of the brick walls were shut up,
could he find the kindly material for his chisel. Nowhere else in the whole building could
the stone, without which his art was powerless, be introduced.

But as the lateral development of Assyrian buildings was great, so too was the field offered
to the Assyrian sculptor. It has been calculated that the sculptured slabs found in the palace
of Sargon would, if placed in a row, cover a distance of nearly a mile and a half. Their superficies
is equal to about an acre and a half. By this it will be seen that sculpture played an important
part in the decoration of an Assyrian palace, but as it was confined to the lower part of the
walls, some other method had to be invented for ornamenting those surfaces on which the chisel
could not be used. In Chaldæa, where there was so little stone, it was practically the whole
building that had to be thus contrived for. In both countries the problem was solved in the
same fashion--by the extensive use of enamelled brick and painted stucco, and the elaboration
of a rich, elegant, and withal original system of polychromy.

Explorers are unanimous in the opinion that neither burnt nor sun-dried brick was ever left
without something to cover its nakedness. It was always hidden and protected by a coat of stucco.[339]
At Nineveh, according to M. Place, this stucco was formed by an intimate mixture of burnt chalk
with plaster, by which a sort of white gum was made that adhered very tightly to the clay wall.[340]
Its peculiar consistence did not permit of its being spread with a brush; a trowel or board
must have been used. The thickness of this cement was never more than one or two millimetres.[341]
Its cohesive force was so great that in spite of its thinness it acted as an efficient protector.
It has often been found in excellent condition, both upon flat and curved surfaces, upon the
walls of courtyards and chambers, on the under sides of vaults, wherever in fact a stone casing
did not supply its place.

It would seem that some buildings had no outward ornament beyond the brilliant whiteness of
this stucco, the effect of which may be seen at the present day in the whitewashed houses of
the East. The glare of such a wall was happily contrasted with the soft verdure that sometimes
grew about it, and the dark blue of the sky against which its summit was relieved. Such a contrast
gives importance and accent to the smallest building, as painters who treat the landscapes
of the South thoroughly understand.

We have reason to believe, however, that as a rule the white stucco served as a background
and support to other colours. No Chaldæan interiors have come down to us, while the exteriors
are in such bad preservation that we can hardly form any true judgment of the colours and designs
with which they were once adorned. But in the case of Assyria we know pretty well how the decorator
understood his business, and it is probable that, like his colleagues, the architect and the
sculptor, he was content to perpetuate the traditions of his Chaldæan masters.

In certain cases the decorator makes use of wide unbroken tints. This is the simplest way of
using colour. In the palace of Sargon, for instance, wherever the sculptured slabs are absent
we find a plinth painted black in distemper. These plinths are from two to nearly four feet
high, according to the extent of the courts or chambers in which they occur. The object of
such a dado is clear; it was to protect the lower part of the wall, if not against deliberate
violence, at least against dirt. A white stucco in such a position would soon have been disfigured
by spots and various marks which would be invisible on a black background. Moreover, the contrast
between the plinth and the white wall above it must have had a certain decorative effect.[342]

This coloured dado is to be found even in places to which it seems quite unsuited. At Khorsabad,
for instance, it runs across the foot of those semicircular pilasters we noticed in one of
the harem chambers (Fig. 101). These pilasters stand upon a plinth between three and four feet
high, so that any contact with the dirt of the floor need not have been feared. The existence
of the dado in such a position is to be accounted for by supposing that the decorator considered
it as the regular ornament for the bottom of a wall. It is more difficult to understand why
the alcoves believed by MM. Place and Thomas to have been bedrooms were in each case painted
with this same band of black.[343]

The most curious example of the employment of unbroken tints to which we can point, is in the
case of M. Place's observatory. The stages of that building were each about twenty feet high,
and each was painted a colour of its own; the first was white, the second black, the third
red, the fourth white. When the excavations were made, these tints were still easily visible.
The building seems originally to have had seven stages, and the three upper ones must certainly
have been coloured on the same principle as those below them. In his restoration, Thomas makes
the fifth vermilion, the sixth a silver grey, while he gilds the seventh and last.[344] In
this choice and arrangement of tints there is nothing arbitrary. It is founded on the description
given by Herodotus of Ecbatana, the capital of the Medes. "The Medes ... built the city now
called Agbatana, the walls of which are of great size and strength, rising in circles one within
the other. The plan of the place is, that each of the walls should out-top the one beyond it
by the battlements. The nature of the ground, which is a gentle hill, favours this arrangement
in some degree, but it was mainly effected by art. The two last have their battlements coated
respectively with silver and gold."[345]

Between the series of colours found upon the ruin in question and the list here given by Herodotus
there is, so far as they go, an identity which cannot be due to chance. The Medes and Persians
invented nothing; their whole art was no more than an eastern offshoot from that of Mesopotamia.
It was in Chaldæa that the number seven first received an exceptional and quasi sacred character.
Our week of seven days is a result from the early worship of the five great planets and of
the sun and moon. There were also the seven colours of the rainbow. From such indications as
these the early architects of Assyria must have determined the number of stages to be given
to a religious building; they also regulated the order of the colours, each one of which was
consecrated by tradition to one of those great heavenly bodies. We can easily understand how
the silver white of the penultimate stage was chosen to symbolize the moon, while the glory
of the gold upon the upper story recalled that of the noonday sun.

Thus must we figure the tower with seven stages which Nebuchadnezzar boasted of having restored
in more than its early magnificence. These arrangements of coloured bands had a double value.
Each tint had a symbolic and traditional signification of its own, and the series formed by
the seven was, so to speak, a phrase in the national theology, an appeal to the imagination,
and a confession of piety. At the same time the chief divisions of the monument were strongly
marked, and the eye was attracted to their number and significance, while the building as a
whole was more imposing and majestic than if its colour had been a uniform white from base
to summit. The colours must have been frequently renewed.

In the interior, where the temperature was not subject to violent changes, where there was
neither rain nor scorching sun, the architect made use of painting in distemper to reinforce
the decoration in his more luxurious chambers. Unfortunately these frescoes are now represented
by nothing but a few fragments. In the course of the excavations numerous instances of their
use were encountered, but in almost every case exposure to the air was rapidly destructive
of their tints, and even of their substance. They occurred chiefly in the rooms whose walls
were lined in their lower parts with sculptured slabs. By dint of infinite painstaking M. Place
succeeded in copying a few fragments of these paintings.[346] According to the examples thus
preserved for us, human figures were mingled with purely ornamental motives such as plumes,
fillets, and rosettes. The colours here used were black, green, red, and yellow, to which may
be added a fifth in the white of the plaster ground upon which they were laid. Flesh tints
were expressed by leaving this white uncoloured.

Several fragments of these painted decorations have also been preserved by Sir Henry Layard.
The simplest of them all is a broad yellow band edged on each side by a line of alternately
red and blue chevrons separated from each other by white lines. Down the centre of the yellow
band there is a row of blue and white rosettes (Fig. 116). Another example in which the same
colours are employed is at once more complex and more elegant (see Fig. 117). Finally, in a
third fragment, a slightly simplified version of this latter motive serves as a lower border
to a frieze upon which two bulls face each other, their white bodies being divided from the
yellow ground by a thick black line. The battlements at the top are dark blue (Fig. 118). An
idea of the tints used in this decoration may be obtained from Fig. 2 of our plate xiv.

It was upon the upper parts of walls where they were beyond the reach of accidental injury
that these painted decorations were placed. M. Place had reason to think that they were also
used on the under-sides of vaults. In rooms in which a richer and more permanent kind of ornament
was unnecessary, paint alone was used for decoration. In several chambers cleared by George
Smith at Nimroud, that explorer found horizontal bands of colour, alternately red, green, and
yellow, and where the stone casing of the lower walls was not sculptured, these stripes were
continued over its surface.[347]

The artist to whom the execution of this work was intrusted must have arranged so that his
tints were in harmony with those placed by another brush on many details of the sculptured
slabs. We shall discuss the question of polychromy in Assyrian sculpture at a future opportunity;
at present we are content with observing that the effect of the reliefs was strengthened here
and there by the use of colour.

The beard, the hair, and the eyebrows were tinted black; such things as the fringes of robes,
baldricks, flowers held in the hand, were coloured blue and red. The gaiety thus given brought
a room into harmony, and prevented the cool grey of the alabaster slabs from presenting a disagreeable
contrast with the brilliant tones spread over the roofs and upper walls.

We might thus restore the interior of an Assyrian apartment and arrive at a whole, some elements
of which would be certainly authentic and others at least very probable. The efforts hitherto
made in this direction leave much to be desired, and give many an opportunity to the fault-finding
critic; and that because their makers have failed to completely master the spirit of Mesopotamian
architecture as shown in its remaining fragments.[348]

It would be much less easy, it would in fact be foolhardy, to attempt the restoration of a
hall from a Babylonian palace. Our information is quite insufficient for such a task. We may
affirm, however, that where the architect had no stone to speak of, the decorations must have
had a somewhat different character from those in which that invaluable material was freely
used. The general tendencies of both countries must have been the same, but between Nineveh
and Babylon, still more between the capital of Assyria and the towns of Lower Chaldæa, there
were differences of which now and then we may succeed in catching a glance. Compelled to trust
almost entirely to clay, the artist of Chaldæa must have turned his attention to colour as
a decoration much more exclusively than his Assyrian rival.

His preoccupation with this one idea is betrayed very curiously in the façade of one of those
ruined buildings at Warka which Loftus has studied and described.[349] We borrow his plan and
elevation of the detail to which we refer (Fig. 119).

In the first place the reader will recognize those semicircular pilasters or gigantic reeds
to which we have already alluded as strongly characteristic of Chaldæan architecture, and one
of the most certain signs of its origin. The chevrons, the spiral lines and lozenges of the
coloured decoration with which the semi-columns, and the salient buttress by which they are
divided into two groups, are covered, should be curiously noticed. The ornament varies with
each structural division. Loftus, however, was chiefly struck by the process used to build
up the design. The whole face of the wall is composed of terra-cotta cones (Fig. 120) engaged
in a mortar composed of mud mixed with chopped straw. The bases of these cones are turned outwards
and form the surface of the wall. Some preserve the natural colour of the terra-cotta, a dark
yellow, others have been dipped--before fixing no doubt--in baths of red and black colouring
matter. By the aid of these three tints an effect has been obtained that, according to Loftus,
is far from being disagreeable. The process may be compared to that of mosaic, cones of terra-cotta
being substituted for little cubes of coloured stone or glass.[350]

Upon the same site M. Loftus found traces of a still more singular decoration. A mass of crude
brick had its horizontal courses divided from each other by earthenware vases laid so that
their open mouths were flush with the face of the wall. Three courses of these vases were placed
one upon another, and the curious ornament thus made was repeated three times in the piece
of wall left standing. The vases were from ten to fifteen inches long externally, but inside
they were never more than ten inches deep, so that their conical bases were solid.[351] The
dark shadows of their open mouths afforded a strong contrast with the white plaster which covered
the brickwork about them. The consequent play of light and shadow unrelieved by colour was
pleasing enough. In spite, however, of their thick walls, these vases could hardly resist successfully
the weight of the bricks above and the various disintegrating influences set up by their contraction
in drying. Most of the vases were broken when Loftus saw them, though still in place.

Cone mosaics and the insertion of vases among the bricks afforded after all but a poor opportunity
to the decorative architect. Had the builders of Chaldæa possessed no more efficient means
than these of obtaining beauty, their structures would hardly have imposed themselves as models
upon their rich and powerful neighbours of Assyria so completely as they did. Some process
was required which should not restrict the decorator to the curves and straight lines of the
simpler geometrical figures, which should allow him to make use of motives furnished by the
animal and vegetable kingdom, by man and those fanciful creations of man's intellect that resulted
from his attempts to figure the gods. We can hardly doubt that the Chaldæans, like their northern
neighbours, made frequent use of paint in the decoration of the wide plaster walls that offered
such a tempting surface to the brush. No fragment of such work has come down to us, but we
have every reason to believe that the arrangement of motives and the choice of lines were the
same as in Assyria. We may look upon the mural paintings in the Ninevite palaces as copies
preserving for us the leading characteristics of their Chaldæan originals.

Even in Chaldæa, which had a drier climate than Assyria, paintings in distemper could not have
had any very long life on external walls. They had not to do with the sky of Upper Egypt where
years pass away without the fall of a single shower. Some means of fixing colour so that it
should not be washed away by the first rain was sought, and it was found in the invention of
enamel, in the coating of the bricks with a coloured material that when passed with them through
the fire would be vitrified and would sink to some extent into their substance. A brick thus
coated could never lose its colour; the latter became insoluble, and so intimately combined
with the block to which it was attached that one could hardly be destroyed without the other.
Sir H. Layard tells us that many fragments of brick found in the Kasr were covered with a thick
glaze, the colours of which had in no way suffered with time. Fragments of ornaments and figures
could be distinguished on some of them. The colours most often found were a very brilliant
blue, red, dark yellow, white, and black.[352]

We have again to look to the Assyrian ruins for information as to the way in which these enamelled
bricks were composed into pictures. No explorer has found anything in the remains of a Chaldæan
city that can be compared to the archivolt of enamelled bricks discovered by M. Place over
one of the gateways of the city founded by Sargon.[353]

We can hardly doubt however that the art of the enameller was discovered in Chaldæa and thence
transported into Assyria. Everything combines to give us that assurance, an examination of
the ruins in Mesopotamia and of the objects brought from them as well as the explicit statements
of the ancients.

Every traveller tells that there is not a ruin at Babylon in which hundreds of these enamelled
bricks may not be picked up, and they are to be found elsewhere in Chaldæa.[354] A certain
number of fragments are now in the British Museum and the Louvre with indications upon them
leaving no doubt as to whence they came.[355] As for the blocks of the same kind coming from
Nineveh and its neighbourhood they are very numerous in our collections. It is easy therefore
to compare the products of Chaldæan workshops with those of Assyrian origin. The comparison
is not to the advantage of the latter. The enamel on the Babylonian bricks is very thick and
solid; it adheres strongly to the clay, and even when brought to our comparatively humid climates
it preserves its brilliancy. It is not so with bricks from Khorsabad and Nimroud, which rapidly
tarnish and become dull when withdrawn from the earth that protected them for so many centuries.
Their firing does not seem to have been sufficiently prolonged.[356]

Necessity is the mother of invention, the proverb says. If there be any country in which clay
has been compelled to do all that lay in its power it must surely be that in which there was
no other material for the construction and decoration of buildings. The results obtained by
the enameller were pretty much the same in Assyria and Chaldæa, and we are inclined to look
upon the older of the two nations as the inventor of the process, especially as it could hardly
have done without it so well as its younger rival, and in this opinion we are confirmed by
the superior quality of the Babylonian enamel. It is possible that there may be some truth
in the assertion that most of the glazed bricks that have come down to us belonged to the restorations
of Nebuchadnezzar; but even supposing that to be so, they show a technical skill so consummate
and sure of itself that it must then have been very far removed from its infancy. The fatherland
of the enameller is Southern Mesopotamia and especially Babylonia, where enamelled bricks seem
to have been used in extraordinary quantities.

The wall of Dour-Saryoukin, the town built by Sargon, has been found intact for a considerable
part of its height. As in the retaining wall of the palace, coloured brick has there been used
with extreme discretion. It is found only over the arches of the principal doors and, perhaps,
in the form of rosettes at the springing of the battlements. The remainder of the great breadths
of crude brick was coated with white plaster.[357]

It was otherwise at Babylon. Ctesias, who lived there for a time, thus describes the palace
on the right bank of the Euphrates: "In the interior of the first line of circumvallation Semiramis
constructed another on a circular plan, upon which there are all kinds of animals stamped on
the bricks while still unburnt; nature is imitated in these figures by the employment of colours[358]....
The third wall, that in the middle, was twenty stades round ... on its towers and their curtain-walls
every sort of animal might be seen imitated according to all the rules of art, both as to their
form and colour. The whole represented the chase of various animals, the latter being more
than four cubits (high)--in the middle Semiramis on horseback letting fly an arrow against
a panther and, on one side, her husband Ninus at close quarters with a lion, which he strikes
with his lance."[359]

Diodorus attributes all these buildings to his fabulous Semiramis. He was mistaken. It was
the palace built by Nebuchadnezzar that he had before him; his eyes rested upon the works of
those sovereigns of the second Chaldee empire who presided at a real art renaissance--at the
re-awakening of a civilization that was never more brilliant than in the years immediately
preceding its fall. The historian's mistake is of little importance here. We are mainly interested
in the fact that he actually saw the walls of which he speaks and saw them covered with pictures,
the material for which was furnished by enamelled brick.

These bricks must have been manufactured in no small quantity to permit of decorations in which
there were figures nearly six feet high.[360] We may form some idea of this frieze of animals
from one in the palace of Sargon at the foot of the wall on each side of the harem doorway
(plate xv.).[361] As for the hunting incidents, we may imagine what they were like from the
Assyrian sculptures (Fig. 5).

At Babylon as at Nineveh the palette of the enameller was very restricted. Figures were as
a rule yellow and white relieved against a blue ground. Touches of black were used to give
accent to certain details, such as the hair and beard, or to define a contour. The surface
of the brick was not always left smooth; in some cases it shows hollow lines in which certain
colours were placed when required to mark distinctive or complementary features. As a rule
motives were modelled in relief upon the ground, so that they were distinguished by a gentle
salience as well as by colour, a contrivance that increased their solidity and effect.[362]
This may be observed on the Babylonian bricks brought to Europe by M. Delaporte, consul-general
for France at Bagdad. They are now in the Louvre. On one we see the three white petals belonging
to one of those Marguerite-shaped flowers that artists have used in such profusion in painted
and sculptured decoration (Figs. 22, 25, 96, 116, 117). Another is the fragment of a wing,
and must have entered into the composition of one of those winged genii that are hardly less
numerous in Assyrian decoration (Figs. 4, 8, and 29). Upon a third you may recognize the trunk
of a palm-tree and on a fourth the sinuous lines that edge a drapery.[363] M. de Longperier
calculated from the dimensions of this latter fragment that the figure to which it belonged
must have been four cubits high, exactly the height assigned by Ctesias to the figures in the
groups seen by him when he visited the palace of the ancient kings.[364]

M. Oppert also mentions fragments which had formed part of similar important compositions.
Yellow scales separated from one another by black lines, reminded him of the conventional figure
under which the Assyrians represented hills or mountains; on others he found fragments of trees,
on others blue undulations, significant, no doubt, of water; on others, again, parts of animals--the
foot of a horse, the mane and tail of a lion. A thick, black line upon a blue ground may have
stood for the lance of a hunter. Upon one fragment a human eye, looking full to the front,
might be recognized.[365] We might be tempted to think that in these remains M. Oppert saw
all that was left of the pictures which excited the admiration of Ctesias.

Inscriptions in big letters obtained by the same process accompanied and explained the pictures.
The characters were white on a blue ground. M. Oppert brought together some fifteen of these
monumental texts, but he did not find a single fragment upon which there was more than one
letter. The inscriptions were meant to be legible at a considerable distance, for the letters
were from two to three inches high. In later days Arab architects followed the example thus
set and pressed the elegant forms of the cufic alphabet into their service with the happiest
skill.[366]

For the composition of one of these figures of men or animals a large number of units was required,
and in order that it might preserve its fidelity it was necessary not only that the separate
pieces should exactly coincide but that they should be fixed and fitted with extreme nicety.
At Babylon they were attached to the wall with bitumen. On the posterior surface of several
enamelled bricks in the Louvre a thick coat of this substance may be seen; it has preserved
an impression of all the roughnesses on the surface of the crude mass to which it was applied.
It is impossible to decide whether this natural mortar was allowed to fill the joints between
one enamelled square and another or not. None of these bricks have been found in place, and
none, so far as we know, unbroken. The coat at the back may have rendered the adherence so
complete that no further precaution was necessary. In Assyria, so far at least as Khorsabad
is concerned, they were content with less trouble. The bricks forming the enamelled archivolt
of which we have spoken are attached to the wall with a mortar in which there is but little
adhesive power.[367] It offered no resistance when M. Place stripped the archway in order that
he might enrich his own country with the spoils of Sargon. But for an accident that sent his
boats to the bottom of the Tigris not far from Bassorah this beautiful gateway would have been
rebuilt in Paris.[368]

To fit all these squares into their proper places was a delicate operation, but it was rendered
easy by long practice. Signs, or rather numbers, for the guidance of the workmen, have been
noticed upon the uncovered faces of the crude brick walls.[369] Still more skill was required
for the proper distribution of a figure over the bricks by whose apposition it was to be created.
No retouches were possible, because the bricks were painted before firing. The least negligence
would be punished by the interruption of the contours, or by their malformation through a failure
of junction between a line upon one brick and its continuation on the next. There was but one
way to prevent such mistakes, and that was by preparing in advance what we should call a cartoon.
On this the proposed design would be traced over a network of squares representing the junctions
of the bricks. The bricks were then shaped, modelled, and numbered; each was painted according
to the cartoon with its due proportion of ground or figure as the case might be, and marked
with the same number as that on the corresponding square in the drawing.[370] The colour was
laid separately on each brick; this is proved by the existence on their edges of pigment that
has overflowed from the face and been fired at the same time as the rest.

Thus were manufactured those enamelled bricks upon which the modern visitor to the ruins of
Babylon walks at every step. Broken, ground almost to powder as they are, they suffice to show
how far the art of enamelling was pushed in those remote days, and how great an industry it
must have been. We can have no doubt that colours fixed in the fire must have formed the chief
element in the decoration of the buildings of Nebuchadnezzar, of that Babylon whose insolent
prosperity so impressed the imagination and provoked the anger of the Jewish prophets. They
decorated the walls of the great temple of Bel Merodach at Babylon, where "all kinds of marvellous
monsters with the greatest variety in their forms" were to be seen.[372]

We see therefore, that both by sacred and profane writers is the important part played by these
paintings in the palaces and temples of the capital affirmed. And Ctesias, who is not content
with allusions, but enters into minute details, tells us how the work was executed, and how
its durability was guaranteed. The modern buildings of Persia give us some idea as to the appearance
of those of Babylon. No doubt the plan of a mosque differs entirely from that of a temple of
Marduk or Nebo, but the principle of the decoration was the same. If the wand of an enchanter
could restore the principal buildings of Babylon we should, perhaps, find more than one to
which the following description of the great mosque of Ispahan might be applied with the change
of a word here and there: "Every part of the building without exception is covered with enamelled
bricks. Their ground is blue, upon which elegant flowers and sentences taken from the Koran
are traced in white. The cupola is blue, decorated with shields and arabesques. One can hardly
imagine the effect produced by such a building on an European accustomed to the dull uniformity
of our colourless buildings; he is filled with an admiring surprise that no words can express."[373]

If we should set about making such a comparison, the principal difference to be noticed would
be that arising out of the prohibitions of the Koran. The Persian potter had to content himself
with the resources of pure ornament, resources upon which he drew with an exquisite skill that
forbids us to regret the absence of men and animals from his work. The coloured surfaces of
the Babylonian buildings must have had more variety than those of the great mosque at Ispahan
or the green mosque at Broussa. But the same groups and the same personages were constantly
repeated in the same attitudes and tints, so that their general character must have been purely
decorative. Even when they were combined into something approaching a scene, care was taken
to guard, by conventionality of treatment and the frequent repetition of familiar types and
groups, against its attracting to itself the attention that properly belonged to the composition
of which it formed a part. The artist was chiefly occupied with the general effect. His aim
was to give a certain rhythm to a succession of traditional forms whose order and arrangement
never greatly varied, to fill the wide surfaces of his architecture with contrasts and harmonies
of colour that should delight the eye and prevent its fatigue.

Were the colours as soft and harmonious as we now see them in those buildings of Persia and
Asia Minor that will themselves soon be little more than ruins? It is difficult to answer this
question from the very small fragments we possess of the coloured decorations of the Babylonian
temples and palaces, but the conditions have remained the same; the wants to be satisfied and
the processes employed a century ago were identical with those of Babylon and Nineveh; architect
and painter were confronted by the same dazzling sun, and, so far as we can tell, taste has
not sensibly changed over the whole of the vast extent of country that stretches from the frontiers
of Syria to the eastern boundaries of the plateau of Iran. New peoples, new religions, and
new territorial divisions have been introduced, but industrial habits have remained; in spite
of political revolutions the workman has transmitted the secrets of his trade to his sons and
grandsons. Oriental art is now threatened with death at the hands of Western competition. Thanks
to its machines Europe floods the most distant markets with productions cheaper than those
turned out by the native workman, and the native workman, discouraged and doubtful of himself,
turns to the clumsy imitation of the West, and loses his hold of the art he understood so well.
Traditions have become greatly weakened during the last half century, but in the few places
where they still preserve their old vitality they may surely be taken as representative of
the arts and industries of many centuries ago, and as the lineal descendants of those early
products of civilization on which we are attempting to cast new light. If, as everything leads
us to believe, the colours and patterns worked by the women of Khorassan and Kurdistan on their
rugs and carpets are identical with those on the hangings in the palaces of Sargon, of Nebuchadnezzar,
and of Darius, why should we not allow that the tints that now delight us on the mosques of
Teheran and Ispahan, of Nicæa and Broussa, are identical with those employed by the Chaldæan
potter?

There is no doubt that both had a strong predilection for blue--for the marvellous colour that
dyed the most beautiful flower of their fields, that glowed on their distant mountains, in
their lakes, in the sea, and in the profound azure of an almost cloudless sky. Nature seems
to have chosen blue for the background of her changing pictures, and like the artists of modern
Persia those of antique Mesopotamia understood the value of the hint thus given. In the fragments
of Babylonian tiles brought home by travellers blue is the dominant colour; and blue furnishes
the background for those two compositions in enamelled brick that have been found in situ.
The blue of Babylon seems however to have had more body and to have been darker in shade than
that of the Khorsabad tiles.

We have already referred to this inferiority in the Assyrian enamel. It may be explained by
the fact that the Assyrian architect looked to sculpture for his most sumptuous effects; he
used polychromatic decoration only for subordinate parts of his work, and he would therefore
be contented with less careful execution than that required by his Babylonian rival. The glazed
tiles of Assyria were not, as in Chaldæa, quasi bas-reliefs. Their tints were put on flat;
the only exception to this being in the case of those rosettes that were made in such extraordinary
numbers for use on the upper parts of walls and round doorways; in these the small central
boss is modelled in low relief (see Figs. 121 and 122).

These glazed bricks were chiefly used by the Assyrian architect upon doorways and in their
immediate neighbourhood.[374] M. Place found the decoration of one of the city gates at Khorsabad
almost intact.[375] The enamel is laid upon one edge of the bricks, which are on the average
three inches and a half thick. Figures are relieved in yellow, and rosettes in white against
the blue ground. A band of green marks the lower edge of the tiara.[376] The same motives and
the same figures were repeated for the whole length of the band. The figures are winged genii
in different postures of worship and sacrifice. They bear in their hands those metal seals
and pine cones that we so often encounter in the bas-reliefs. Distributed about the entrance
these genii seem to be the protectors of the city, they are beneficent images, their gesture
is a prayer, a promise, a benediction. On each side of the arch, at its springing, there is
one of greater stature than his companions (Fig. 123). His face is turned towards the vaulted
passage. Upon the curve of the archivolt smaller figures face one another in couples; each
couple is divided from its neighbours by rosettes (Fig. 124).

The other composition is to be found on a plinth in the doorway of the harem at Khorsabad.
This plinth was about twenty-three feet long, and rather more than three feet high. Its ornament
was repeated on both sides of the doorway.[377] It consisted of a lion, an eagle, a bull, and
a plough (Plate XV). Upon the returning angles the king appears, standing, on the one side
with his head bare, on the other covered with a tiara. The background is blue, as in the city
gates; green was only used for the leaves of the tree, in which some have recognized a fig-tree.

In these two examples the decoration is of an extreme simplicity; the figures are not engaged
in any common action; there is, in fact, no picture. The artist sometimes appears to have been
more ambitious. Thus Layard found at Nimroud the remains of a decoration in which the painter
had apparently attempted to rival the sculptor: he had represented a battle scene analogous
to those we find in such plenty in the bas-reliefs.[378] A similar motive may be found in a
better preserved fragment belonging to the same structure (Plate XIV, Fig. 1).[379] A single
brick bears four personages, a god, whose arms only are left, the king, his patera in hand,
offering a libation, an eunuch with bow and quiver, and finally an officer with a lance. George
Smith also found a fragment of the same kind at Nimroud (see Fig. 125). It shows the figure
of a soldier, from the knees upwards, armed with bow and lance, and standing by the wheel of
a chariot. Above his head are the remains of an inscription which must have been continued
on the next brick. The word warriors may still be deciphered.[380] This figure may have formed
part of some attempt on the part of the decorator to narrate in colour some of the exploits
of the king for whom the palace was built.

There is a difference between such fragments as this and the glazed tiles of the Khorsabad
gates. In the latter the enamelled edges of several bricks were required to make a single figure.
In the bricks from Nimroud on the other hand, whole figures are painted on their surface, and
in fact a single brick had several figures upon it which were, therefore, on a much smaller
scale. A decoration in which figures were some two and three feet high, was well suited for
use in lofty situations where those restricted to the surface of a single brick would have
been hardly visible. The latter must, then, have been fixed on the lower parts of the wall,
but as none of them have yet been found in place we cannot say positively that it was so.

Such representations were, moreover, quite exceptional. Most of the pieces of glazed brick
that have been found in the ruins show nothing but the remains of figures and motives ornamental
rather than historical in their general character.[381] Besides the rosettes of which we have
had occasion to speak so often we encounter at every step a spiral ornament the design of which
remains without much modification, while a certain variety is given to its general effect by
changing the arrangement of its colours. In the example reproduced in Fig. 126 large black
disks, like eyes, are embraced by a double spiral in which blue and yellow alternate.[382]

There is one curious class of glazed tiles in which this motive continually reappears. These
tiles are thinner than the ordinary brick. Their shape is sometimes square but with their sides
slightly concave (Fig. 127), sometimes circular, in the form of a quoit (Fig. 128). In each
case similar designs are employed, flowers, palmettes, &c. These are carried out in black upon
a white ground and arranged symmetrically about a round hole in the middle of the tile. These
things must have been manufactured for some special purpose, and the name of Assurnazirpal,
that may be read upon our first fragment (Fig. 127), shows that they belonged to some great
work of decoration whose main object was to glorify the name of that sovereign. It has been
guessed that they formed centres for a coffered ceiling, and there is nothing to negative the
conjecture. The opening in the centre may have been filled with a boss of bronze or silver
gilt. As we have already shown, appliqué work of this kind played a great part in Assyrian
decoration; doors were covered with it and there are many signs that both in Chaldæa and Assyria
many other surfaces were protected in the same fashion.

After the careful examination of its ruins Taylor came to the conclusion that the upper story
of a staged tower at Abou-Sharein had gilt walls. He found a great number of small and very
thin gold plates upon the plateau that formed the summit of the building, and with them the
gilded nails with which they had been fixed.[383] In his life of Apollonius of Tyana, Philostratus
gives a description of Babylon that appears taken from authentic sources, and he notices this
employment of metal. "The palaces of the King of Babylon are covered with bronze which makes
them glitter at a distance; the chambers of the women, the chambers of the men and the porticoes
are decorated with silver, with beaten and even with massive gold instead of pictures."[384]
Herodotus speaks of the silvered and gilded battlements of Ecbatana[385] and at Khorsabad cedar
masts incased in gilded bronze were found,[386] while traces of gold have been found on some
crude bricks at Nimroud.[387] Seeing that metal was thus used to cover wide surfaces, and that,
as we shall have occasion to show, the forms of sculpture, of furniture, and of the arts allied
to them in Mesopotamia, prove that the inhabitants of that region were singularly skilled in
the manipulation of metal, whether with the chisel or the hammer, the above conjecture may
very well be true; the sheen of the polished surface would be in excellent harmony with the
enamelled faïence about it.

It has been suggested that some of the carved ivories may have been used to ornament the coffers.
This suggestion in itself seems specious enough, but I failed to discover a single ivory in
the rich collection of the British Museum whose shape would have fitted the openings in the
tiles.[388] It is certain, however, that ivory was used in the ornamentation of buildings.
"I incrusted," says Nebuchadnezzar, "the door-posts, the lintel, and threshold of the place
of repose with ivory." The small rectangular plaques with which several cases and many drawers
are filled in the British Museum may very well have been used for the decoration of doors,
and the panels of ceilings and wainscots. They were so numerous, especially in the palace of
Assurnazirpal at Nimroud, that we cannot believe them all to have come off small and movable
pieces of furniture. We are confirmed in this idea by the fact that none of these ivories are
unique or isolated works of art. In spite of the care and taste expended on their execution
they were in no sense gems treasured for their rarity and value; they were the products of
an active manufactory delivering its types in series, we might almost say in dozens. The more
elegant and finished among them are represented three, four, and five times over in the select
case in the British Museum. We may safely say that the examples preserved of any one model
are by no means all that were made; in fact, in the drawers in which the smaller fragments
are preserved, we noticed the remains of more than one piece which had once been similar to
the more perfect specimens exhibited to the public.

Thus there are in the Museum four replicas of the little work shown in our Fig. 129.[389] The
head of a woman, full face, and with an Egyptian head-dress, is enframed in a narrow window
and looks over a balcony formed of columns with the curious capitals already noticed on page
211. Beside these four more or less complete examples, the Museum possesses several detached
heads (Fig. 130) which once, no doubt, belonged to similar compositions.

The beauty of the ivory surface was often enhanced by the insertion of coloured enamels and
lapis-lazuli in the hollows of the tablet. Traces of this inlay may be seen on many of the
Museum ivories, especially on those recently brought from Van, in Armenia. The tablets also
show traces of gilding.

All this proves that the Mesopotamian decorator had no contemptible resources for the ornamentation
of his panelled walls and coffered ceilings. These chiselled, enamelled, and gilded ivories
must have been set in frames of cedar or cypress. The Assyrian texts bear witness in more than
one place to the use of those fine materials, and the Hebrew writers make frequent allusion
to the luxurious carpentry imitated by their own princes in the temple at Jerusalem.[390] In
one of his invectives against Nineveh Zephaniah cries: "Desolation shall be in the thresholds:
for he shall uncover the cedar work."[391]

The more we enter into detail the richer and more varied does the decoration of these buildings
appear. In our day the great ruins are sad and monotonous enough. The rain of many centuries
has washed away their paint; their ornaments of metal and faïence, of ivory and cedar, have
fallen from the walls; the hand of man has combined with the slow action of time to reduce
them to their elements, and nothing of their original beauty remains but here and there a fragment
or a hint of colour. And yet when we bring these scanty vestiges together we find that enough
is left to give the taste and invention of the Assyrian ornamentist a very high place in our
respect. That artist was richly endowed with the power of inventing happy combinations of lines,
and of varying his motives without losing sight for an instant of his original theme.

We may show this very clearly by a more careful study of two motives already encountered, the
rosette, and the running ornament which is known in its countless modifications as the "knop
and flower pattern." These two motives are united in those great thresholds which have been
found now and then in such marvellous preservation. They also occur in certain bas-reliefs
representing architectural decorations, so that we are in possession of all the documents required
for the formation of a true idea of their varied beauties. In the Assyrian Basement Room of
the British Museum there is a fine slab of gypsum of which we reproduce one corner in our Fig.
131.[392] Besides the daisy shaped rosette which is so conspicuous, there is one of more elaborate
design which we reproduce on a larger scale and from another example in our Fig. 132. It is
inclosed in a square frame adorned with chevrons. This frame with the rosette it incloses may
be taken as giving some idea of the ceiling panels or coffers.

In this rosette it should be noticed that beyond the double festoon about the central star
appears the same alternation of bud and flower as in the straight border. That flower has been
recognized as the Egyptian lotus, but Layard believes its type to have been furnished, perhaps,
by a scarlet tulip which is very common towards the beginning of spring in Mesopotamia.[393]
We ourselves believe rather in the imitation of a motive from the stuffs, the jewels, the furniture,
and the pottery that Mesopotamia drew from Egypt at a very early date through the intermediary
of the Phoenicians. The Phoenicians themselves appropriated the same motive and introduced
it with their own manufactures not only into Mesopotamia but into every country washed by the
Mediterranean. Our conjecture is to some extent confirmed by an observation of Sir H. Layard's.
This lotus flower is only to be found, he says, in the most recent of Assyrian monuments, in
those, namely, that date from the eighth and seventh centuries B.C., centuries during which
the Assyrian kings more than once invaded Phoenicia and occupied Egypt.[394] In the more ancient
bas-reliefs flowers with a very different aspect--copied in all probability directly from nature--are
alone to be found. Of these some idea may be formed from the adjoining cut. It reproduces a
bouquet held in the hand of a winged genius in the palace of Assurnazirpal (Fig. 133).

The lotus flower is to be found moreover in monuments much older than those of the Sargonids,
but that does not in any way disprove the hypothesis of a direct plagiarism. The commercial
relations between the valleys of the Nile and the Euphrates date from a much more remote epoch,
and about the commencement of the eighteenth dynasty the Egyptians seem to have occupied in
force the basin of the Khabour, the principal affluent of the Euphrates. Layard found many
traces of their passage over and sojourn in that district, among them a series of scarabs,
many of which bore the superscription of Thothmes III.[395] So that the points of contact were
numerous enough, and the mutual intercourse sufficiently intimate and prolonged, to account
for the assimilation by Mesopotamian artists of a motive taken from the flora of Egypt and
to be seen on almost every object imported from the Nile valley. This imitation appears all
the more probable as in the paintings of Theban tombs dating from a much more remote period
than the oldest Ninevite remains, the pattern with its alternate bud and flower is complete.
Many examples may be found in the plates of Prisse d'Avennes' great work;[396] one is reproduced
in our Fig. 134.

The Assyrians borrowed their motive from Egypt, but they gave it more than Egyptian perfection.
They gave it the definitive shapes that even Greece did not disdain to copy. In the Egyptian
frieze the cones and flowers are disjointed; their isolation is unsatisfactory both to the
eye and the reason. In the Assyrian pattern they are attached to a continuous undulating stem
whose sinuous lines add greatly to the elegance of the composition. The distinctive characters
of the bud and flower are also very well marked by the Assyrian artists. The closed petals
of the one the open ones of the other and the divisions of the calix are indicated in a fashion
that happily combines truth with convention. In our Fig. 135 we reproduce, on a larger scale,
a part of the slab already illustrated at page 240, so that the merits of its workmanship may
be better appreciated.

The painter also made use of this motive. In a bas-relief from the palace of Assurbanipal we
find the round-headed doorway illustrated in Fig. 136. Its rich decoration must have been carried
out in glazed bricks, similar to those discovered by M. Place on one of the gates of Khorsabad.
Here, however, the figures of supernatural beings are replaced by rosettes and by two lines
of the knop and flower ornament.

Vegetable forms brought luck to the Assyrian decorator. Even after taking a motive from a foreign
style of ornament he understood, so to speak, how to naturalize a plant and to make its forms
expressive of his own individuality. Our only difficulty is to make a choice among the numerous
illustrations of his inventive fertility; we shall confine ourselves to reproducing the designs
embroidered upon the royal robes of Assurnazirpal. We need hardly say that these robes do not
now exist, but the Ninevite sculptor copied them in soft alabaster with an infinite patience
that does him honour. He has preserved for us every detail with the exception of colour. The
lotus is not to be found in this embroidery; its place is taken by the palmette or tuft of
leaves (Fig. 137), through which appear stems bending with the weight of the buds they bear.
Animals, real and imaginary, are skilfully mingled with the fan-shaped palmettes; in one place
we find two goats (Fig. 138), in another two winged bulls (Fig. 139). Bulls and goats are both
alike on their knees before the palmette, which seems to suggest that the latter is an abridged
representation of that sacred tree which we have already encountered and will encounter again
in the bas-reliefs, where it is surrounded by scenes of adoration and sacrifice. This motive
has the double advantage of awakening religious feeling in the spectators, and of provoking
a momentary elegance of line and movement in the two pairs of animals. On the other hand we
can hardly explain the motive represented in our Figs. 140 and 141--a motive already met with
in the figured architecture of the bas-reliefs and in the glazed tiles--by anything but an
artistic caprice. In some cases the rosette and the palmette are introduced in a single picture
(142).

We have ventured to supplement the scanty remains of architectural decoration by these illustrations
from another art, because all Babylonian ornament, whether for carpets, hangings, or draperies,
for works in beaten metal, in paint or enamelled faïence, is governed by the same spirit and
marked by the same taste. In every form impressed upon matter by the ancient inhabitants of
Mesopotamia the same symbols, the same types, and the same motives are repeated to infinity.
The examples we have brought together suffice to show the principal characteristics of that
decoration. It had doubtless one great defect, it was too easily separated from the building
to which it belonged; it was fragile, apt to fall, and therefore unlikely to have any very
long duration. But the architect was not to blame for that. The defect in question was consequent
on the poverty of the material with which he had to work. Given the conditions under which
he laboured, and we cannot deny that he showed great skill in making the best of them. He understood
how to contrast wide unbroken surfaces with certain important parts of his ensemble, such as
cornices, plinths, and especially doorways. Upon these he concentrated the efforts of the painter
and sculptor; upon these he lavished all the hues of the Assyrian palette, and embellished
them with the carved figures of men and gods, of kings and genii, of all the countless multitudes
who had fought and died for Assyria and its divine protector, the unconquered and unconquerable
Assur.

If, not content with this general view of Assyrian decoration, we enter into it in detail,
we shall find its economy most judiciously arranged and understood. When the sculptor set himself
to carve the slabs that enframe a door or those that protect the lower parts of a wall, he
sought to render what he saw or imagined as precisely and definitely as possible. He went to
nature for inspiration even when he carved imaginary beings, and copied her, in fragments perhaps,
but with a loyal and vigorous sincerity. Everywhere, except in certain pictures with a strictly
limited function, he obeyed an imagination over which a sure judgment kept unsleeping watch.
His polychromatic decorations fulfilled their purpose of amusing and delighting the eye without
ever attempting to deceive it. Such is and must always be the true principle of ornament, and
the decorators of the great buildings of Babylon and Nineveh seem to have thoroughly understood
that it was so; their rich and fertile fancy is governed, in every instance to which we can
point, with unfailing tact, and to them must be given the credit of having invented not a few
of the motives that may yet be traced in the art of the Medes and Persians, in that of the
Syrians, the Phoenicians, the peoples of Asia Minor, and above all in that of the Greeks--those
unrivalled masters who gave immortality to every artistic combination that they chose to adopt.

NOTES:

[326] The cuneiform texts mention the "two bulls at the door of the temple E-schakil," the
famous staged tower of Babylon. Fr. LENORMANT, Les Origines de l'Histoire, vol. i. p. 114 (2nd
edition, 1880).

[327] RICH, Narrative of a Journey to the Site of Babylon in 1811, and a Memoir on the Ruins,
p. 64. LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 507. According to Rich, this lion was of grey granite; according
to Layard, of black basalt.

[328] LOFTUS says nothing of this lion in those Travels and Researches which we have so often
quoted. It was, perhaps, on a later occasion that he found it. We came upon it in a collection
of original sketches and manuscript notes (Drawings in Babylonia by W. K. Loftus and H. Churchill)
in the custody of the keeper of Oriental antiquities at the British Museum. We have to express
our acknowledgments to Dr. Birch for permission to make use of this valuable collection.

[330] Exploration archéologique, vol. ii. pl. 11.

[331] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 508.

[332] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. pp. 68-70.

[333] This character of a tutelary divinity that we attribute to the winged bull is indicated
in the clearest manner in the cuneiform texts: "In this palace," says Esarhaddon, "the sedi
and lamassi (the Assyrian names for these colossi) are propitious, are the guardians of my
royal promenade and the rejoicers of my heart, may they ever watch over the palace and never
quit its walls." And again: "I caused doors to be made in cypress, which has a good smell,
and I had them adorned with gold and silver and fixed in the doorways. Right and left of those
doorways I caused sedi and lamassi of stone to be set up, they are placed there to repulse
the wicked." (ST. GUYARD, Bulletin de la Religion assyrienne, in the Revue de l'Histoire des
Religions, vol. i. p. 43, note.)

[334] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii, plate 21.

[335] Those in the Louvre are fourteen feet high; the tallest pair in the British Museum are
about the same.

[336] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. pt. ii. p. 92, fig. 70.

[337] On the subject of these winged bulls see Fr. LENORMANT, Les Origines de l'Histoire, vol.
i. chap. 3.

[338] The bas-relief here reproduced comes from the palace of Assurbanipal at Kouyundjik. In
the fragment now in the Louvre there are three stories, but the upper story, being an exact
repetition of that immediately below it, has been omitted in our engraving.

[339] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, p. 176. LAYARD, Discoveries, pp. 529, 651. BOTTA, Monument
de Ninive, vol. v. p. 44. In the book of Daniel the hand that traces the warning words upon
the walls of Belshazzar's palace traces them "upon the plaster of the wall" (DANIEL v. 5).

[340] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 77.

[341] At Warka, however, LOFTUS found in the building he calls Wuswas a layer of plaster which
was from two to four inches thick. (Travels, p. 176.)

[342] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. pp. 77, 78.

[343] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plate 25.

[344] Ibid. vol. i. pp. 141-146; vol. ii. pp. 79, 80; vol. iii. plates 36 and 37.

[345] HERODOTUS (Rawlinson's translation), i. 98.

[346] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plate 32.

[347] G. SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, pp. 77, 78. LAYARD (Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 130) also says
that some rooms had no other decoration.

[348] In writing thus we allude chiefly to the restorations given by Mr. James Fergusson in
The Palaces of Nineveh and Persepolis Restored (1 vol. 8vo. Murray), a work that was launched
upon the world at far too early a date, namely, in 1851. Sir H., then Mr., LAYARD, had not
yet published his second narrative (Discoveries in the Ruins of Nineveh and Babylon) nor the
second series of Monuments of Nineveh, neither had the great work of MM. Place and Thomas on
the palace of Sargon (a work to which we owe so much new and authentic information) appeared.
In Mr. Fergusson's restorations the column is freely used and the vault excluded, so that in
many respects his work seems to us to be purely fanciful, and yet it is implicitly accepted
by English writers to this day. Professor RAWLINSON, while criticising Mr. Fergusson in his
text (The Five Great Monarchies, vol. i. p. 303, note 6), reproduces his restoration of the
great court at Khorsabad, in which a colonnade is introduced upon the principle of the hypostyle
halls of Persepolis. Professor Rawlinson would, perhaps, have been better advised had he refrained
from thus popularizing a vision which, as he himself very justly declares, is quite alien to
the genius of Assyrian architecture.

[349] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, pp. 187-189.

[350] LOFTUS thinks that the process was very common, at least in Lower Chaldæa. He found cones
imbedded in mortar at several other points in the Warka ruins, but the example we have reproduced
is the only one in which well-marked designs could still be clearly traced. TAYLOR saw cones
of the same kind at Abou-Sharein. They had no inscriptions, and their bases were black (Journal
of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xv. p. 411). They formed in all probability parts of a decoration
similar to that described by Loftus. In Egypt we find cones of terra-cotta crowning the façades
of certain Theban tombs (RHIND, Thebes, its Tombs and their Tenants, p. 136). Decoratively
they seem allied to the cones of Warka, but the religious formulæ they bear connects them rather
with the cones found by M. de Sarzec at Tello, which bear commemorative inscriptions. To these
we shall return at a later page.

[351] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, pp. 190, 191

[352] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 607. Rich also bears witness to the abundance of these remains
in his Journey to the Ruins of Babylon. See also OPPERT, Expédition scientifique, vol. i. p. 143.

[353] A French traveller of the last century, DE BEAUCHAMP (he was consul at Bagdad), heard
an Arab workman and contractor describe a room he had found in the Kasr, the walls of which
were lined with enamelled bricks. Upon one wall, he said, there was a cow with the sun and
moon above it. His story must, at least, have been founded on truth. No motive occurs oftener
in the Chaldæan monuments than a bull and the twin stars of the day and night. (See RENNELL,
History of Herodotus, p. 367.)

[354] LOFTUS collected some fragments of these enamelled bricks at Warka, "similar to those
found," he says, "at Babylon in the ruins of the Kasr" (Travels and Researches, p. 185). TAYLOR
also tells us that he found numerous fragments of brick enamelled blue at Mugheir (Journal
of the Royal Asiatic Society, vol. xv. p. 262).

[355] The most interesting of these fragments, those that allow the subject of which they formed
a part to be still divined, have been published by M. DE LONGPERIER, Musée Napoléon III. plate iv.

[356] I examined at the British Museum the originals of the glazed bricks reproduced by Layard
in his first series of Monuments, some of which we have copied in our plates xiii. and xiv.
The outlines of the ornament are now hardly more than distinguishable, while the colour is
no more than a pale reflection.

[357] LOFTUS believes that the external faces of Assyrian walls were not, as a rule, cased
in enamelled bricks. He disengaged three sides of the northern palace at Kouyundjik without
finding any traces of polychromatic decoration. (Travels and Researches, p. 397. note.)

[358] Kath' hon en ômais eti tais plinthois dietetupôto thêria, pantodapa tê tôn chrômatôn
philotechnia tên alêtheian apomimoumena (DIODORUS, ii. 8, 4.) Diodorus expressly declares that
he borrows this description from Ctesias (hôs Ktêsias phêsin), ibid. 5.

[359] Enêsan de en tois purgois kai teichesi zôa pantodapa philotechnôs tois te chrômasi kai
tois tôn tupôn apomimasi kataskeuasmena. (DIODORUS, ii. 8, 6.)

[360] Pantoiôn thêriôn ... hôn êsan ta megethê pleion ê pêchôn tettarôn. Four cubits was equal
to about five feet eight inches. At Khorsabad the tallest of the genii on the coloured tiles
at the door are only 32 inches high; others are not more than two feet.

[361] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plates 24 and 31.

[362] "The painting," says M. OPPERT, "was applied to a kind of roughly blocked-out relief."
(Expédition scientifique, vol. i. p. 144.)

[363] De Longperier, Musée Napoléon III., plate iv.

[364] This palace was then inhabited for a part of the year by the Achemenid princes, of whom
Ctesias was both the guest and physician.

[365] OPPERT, Expédition scientifique, vol. i. pp. 143, 144.

[366] Two of these enamelled letters are in the Louvre. See also upon this subject, PLACE,
Ninive, vol. ii. p. 86. I have also seen some in the collection of M. Piot.

[367] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 236.

[368] Only two rafts arrived at Bassorah; eight left Mossoul, so that only about a fourth of
the antiquities collected reached their destination in safety. The cases with the objects despatched
by the Babylonian mission, that is by MM. Fresnel, Oppert, and Thomas, were included in the
same disaster. But for this the Assyrian collections of the Louvre would be less inferior than
they are to those of the British Museum.

[369] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 253.

[370] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 253. These marks were recognized upon many fragments found
at Babylon by MM. Oppert and Thomas (OPPERT, Expédition scientifique, vol. i. pp. 143, 144).
LOFTUS has transcribed and published a certain number of marks of the same kind which he found
upon glazed bricks from the palace at Suza. These are sometimes cut in the brick with a point,
sometimes painted with enamel like that on the face. (Travels and Researches, p. 398.)

[371] EZEKIEL xxiii. 14, 15.

[372] BEROSUS, fragment i. § 4, in vol. ii. of the Fragmenta Historicorum Græcorum of Ch. MÜLLER.

[373] TEXIER, Armenie et Perse, vol. ii. p. 134. In the same work the details of the magnificent
decoration upon the mosque of the Sunnites at Tauris (which afforded a model for that at Ispahan)
will be found reproduced in their original colours. It is strange that this art of enamelled
faïence, after being preserved so long, should so recently have become extinct in the East.
"At the commencement of the last century," says M. TEXIER (vol. ii. p. 138), "the art of enamelling
bricks was no less prosperous in Persia than in the time of Shah-Abbas, the builder of the
great mosque at Ispahan (1587-1629); but now the art is completely extinct, and in spite of
my desire to visit a factory where I might see the work in progress, there was not one to be
found from one end of Ispahan to the other." According to the information I gathered in Asia
Minor, it was also towards the beginning of the present century that the workshops of Nicæa
and Nicomedia, in which the fine enamelled tiles on the mosques at Broussa were made, were
finally closed. In these fabriques the plaques which have been found in such abundance for
some twenty years past in Rhodes and other islands of the Archipelago were also manufactured.
[The manufacture of these glazed tiles is by no means extinct in India, however. At many centres
in Sindh and the Punjab, glazed tiles almost exactly similar to those on the mosque at Ispahan,
so far as colours and ornamental motives are concerned, are made in great numbers and used
for the same purposes as in Persia and ancient Mesopotamia. There is a tradition in India that
the art was brought from China, through Persia, by the soldiers of Gingiz-Khan, but a study
of the tiles themselves is enough to show that they are a survival from the art manufactures
of Babylon and Nineveh. For detailed information on the history and processes used in the manufacture
of these tiles, see Sir George BIRDWOOD'S Industrial Arts of India, part ii. pp. 304-310, 321,
and 330; also Mr. DRURY FORTNUM'S report on the Sindh pottery in the International Exhibition
of 1871.--ED.]

[374] Sir H. LAYARD noticed this at the very beginning of his explorations: "Between the bulls
and the lions forming the entrances in different parts of the palace were invariably found
a large collection of baked bricks, elaborately painted with figures of animals and flowers,
and with cuneiform characters" (Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 13).

[375] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 234; vol. iii. plates 9 and 17.

[376] Ibid. vol. iii. plate 14. We should have reproduced this composition in colour had the
size of our page allowed us to do so on a proper scale. M. Place was unable to give it all
even in a double-page plate of his huge folio.

[377] PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii. plates 23-31.

[378] Layard, Monuments, 2nd series, plates 53, 54. Elsewhere (Discoveries, pp. 166-168) Layard
has given a catalogue and summary description of all these fragments, of which only a part
were reproduced in the plates of his great collection.

[379] Ibid. plate 55.

[380] GEO. SMITH, Assyrian Discoveries, p. 79.

[381] Botta gives examples of some of these bricks (Monument de Ninive, plates 155, 156). Among
the motives there reproduced there is one that we have already seen in the bas-reliefs (fig.
67). It is a goat standing in the collected attitude he would take on a point of rock. The
head of the ibex is also a not uncommon motive (LAYARD, Monuments, first series, plate 87,
fig. 2; see also BOTTA).

[382] Fig. 1 of our Plate XIV. reproduces the same design, but with a more simple colouration.

[383] J. E. TAYLOR, Notes on Abou-Sharein, p. 407 (in the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society,
vol. xv.).

[384] PHILOSTRATUS, Life of Apollonius, i. 25. Cf. DIONYSIUS PERIEGETES, who says of Semiramis
(v. 1007, 1008):

    autar ep' akropolêi megan domon eisato Bêlôi
    chrusôi t' êd' elephanti kai agurôi askêsasa.

[385] HERODOTUS, i. 98.

[386] See above, p. 202.

[387] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 264, note 1. Frequent allusions to this use of metal are
to be found in the wedges. In M. LENORMANT'S translation of the London inscription (Histoire
ancienne, vol. ii. p. 233, 3rd edition) in which Nebuchadnezzar enumerates the great works
he had done at Borsippa, I find the following words: "I have covered the roof of Nebo's place
of repose with gold. The beams of the door before the oracles have been overlaid with silver
... the pivot of the door into the woman's chamber I have covered with silver."

[388] Among the fragments of tiles brought from Nimroud by Mr. George Smith, and now in the
British Museum, there are two like those reproduced above, to which bosses or knobs of the
same material--glazed earthenware--are attached. The necks of these bosses are pierced with
holes apparently to receive the chain of a hanging lamp, and are surrounded at their base with
inscriptions of Assurnazirpal stating that they formed part of the decoration of a temple at
Calah.--ED.

[389] The size of our engraving is slightly above that of the object itself.

[390] 1 Kings vi. 15; vii. 3.

[391] ZEPHANIAH ii. 14.

[392] The design consists entirely in the symmetrical repetition of the details here given.
[In this engraving the actual design of the pavement has been somewhat simplified. Between
the knop and flower that forms the outer border and the rosettes there is a band of ornament
consisting of the symmetrical repetition of the palmette motive with rudimentary volutes, much
as it occurs round the outside of the tree of life figured on page 213. In another detail our
cut differs slightly from the original. In the latter there is no corner piece; the border
runs entirely across the end, and the side borders are stopped against it.--ED.]

[393] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 184, note.

[394] LAYARD, Nineveh. vol. ii. p. 212, note.

[395] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 281.

[396] PRISSE D'AVENNES, Histoire de l'Art égyptien d'après les Monuments (2 vols folio): see
the plates entitled Couronnements et Frises fleuronnés.

§ 8.--On the Orientation of Buildings and Foundation Ceremonies.

The inhabitants of Mesopotamia were so much impressed by celestial phenomena, and believed
so firmly in the influence of the stars over human destiny, that they were sure to establish
some connection between those heavenly bodies and the arrangement of their edifices. All the
buildings of Chaldæa and Assyria are orientated; the principle is everywhere observed, but
it is not always understood in the same fashion.

Mesopotamian buildings were always rectangular and often square on plan, and it is sometimes
the angles and sometimes the centres of each face that are directed to the four cardinal points.
It will easily be understood that the former system was generally preferred. The façades were
of such extent that their direction to a certain point of the horizon was not evident, while
salient angles, on the other hand, had all the precision of an astronomical calculation; and
this the earliest architects of the Chaldees thoroughly understood. Some of the buildings examined
by Loftus and Taylor on the lower Euphrates may have been restored, more or less, by Nebuchadnezzar
and his successors, but it is generally acknowledged that the lower and less easily injured
parts of most of these buildings date from the very beginnings of that civilization, and were
constructed by the princes of the early empire. Now both at Warka and at Mugheir one corner
of a building is always turned towards the true north.[397] An instance of this may be given
in the little building at Mugheir in which the lower parts of a temple have been recognized
(Fig. 143). The same arrangement is to be found in the palace excavated by M. de Sarzec at
Tello.[398]

Most of the Assyrian architects did likewise. See for example the plan of Sargon's city, Dour-Saryoukin
(Fig. 144). Its circumvallation incloses an almost exact square, the diagonals of which point
to the north, south, east and west respectively.[399] In the large scale plans that we shall
give farther on of the palace and of some of its parts it will be seen that the parallelograms
of which that building was composed also had their angles turned to the four cardinal points.
It was the same with the structures sprinkled over the summit of the vast mound of Kouyundjik,
in the centre of what once was Nineveh.

On the other hand in those ruins at Nimroud that have been identified with the ancient Calah,
it is the sides of the mound and of the buildings upon it that face the four cardinal points
(Fig. 145). The plan given by Layard of the square staged tower disengaged in his last digging
campaign at the north-western angle of the mound shows this more clearly.[400] Nearly half
the northern side is occupied by the salient circular mass that is such a conspicuous object
to one looking at the mound from the plain. We do not know what caused this deviation from
the traditional custom; a reason should perhaps be sought in the configuration of the ground,
and in the course here followed by the river which then bathed the foot of the artificial hill
upon which stood the royal dwellings of the Tiglath-Pilesers and Assurnazirpals.

The first of these two methods of orientation had the advantage of establishing a more exact
and well defined relation between the disposition of the building and those celestial points
to which a peculiar importance was attached. It must also be remembered that such an arrangement
gave a more agreeable dwelling than the other. No façade being turned directly to the north
there was none entirely deprived of sunlight, while at the same time there was none that faced
due south. The sun as it ran its daily course would light for a time each face in turn.

The religious ideas that led to orientation are revealed in other details, in the time chosen
for commencing the foundations of temples or palaces, and in certain rites that were accomplished
afterwards--doubtless with the help of the priesthood--in order to place the building under
the protection of the gods and to interest them in its duration. There were ceremonies analogous
to those now practised when we lay foundation stones. In the Chaldee system the first stone,
the seed from which the rest of the edifice was to spring, was an angle stone, under or in
which were deposited inscribed plaques. These contained the name of the founder, together with
prayers to the gods and imprecations on all who should menace the stability of the building.
This custom dated from the very beginning of Chaldæan civilization, as is proved by a curious
text translated by M. Oppert.[401] It was discovered at Sippara and dates from the time of
Nabounid, one of the last kings of Babylon. Many centuries before the reign of that prince
a temple raised to the sun by Sagaraktyas, of the first dynasty, had been destroyed, and its
foundations were traditionally said to inclose the sacred tablets of Xisouthros, who has been
identified with the Noah of the Bible. Nabounid recounts the unsuccessful efforts that had
been made before his time to recover possession of the precious deposit. Two kings of Babylon,
Kourigalzou and Nebuchadnezzar, and one king of Assyria, Esarhaddon, had made the attempt and
failed. One of the three had commemorated his failure in an inscription to the following effect:
"I have searched for the angle stone of the temple of Ulbar but I have not found it." Finally
Nabounid took up the quest. After one check caused by an inundation he renewed the search with
ardour; he employed his army upon it, and at last, after digging to a great depth, he came
to the angle-stone: "Thus," he says, "have I recovered the name and date of Sagaraktyas."

In the ruins of the ancient royal city recovered by M. de Sarzec at Tello the traces of similar
precautions have everywhere been found. In the middle of the great mass of ruins whose plan
we are still awaiting, "I found," says M. de Sarzec, "at a depth of hardly 30 centimetres (one
foot English) below the original level of the soil four cubical masses consisting of large
bricks cemented with bitumen, and measuring about 80 centimetres across each face. In the centre
of each cube there was a cavity 27 centimetres long by 12 wide and 35 deep. In each case this
hollow contained a small bronze statuette packed, as it were, in an impalpable dust. In one
cavity the statuette was that of a kneeling man (Fig. 146), in another of a standing woman
(Fig. 147), in another of a bull (Fig. 148). At the feet of each statue there were two stone
tablets, set in most cases in the bitumen with which the cavity was lined. One of these tablets
was black, the other white. It was upon the black as a rule that a cuneiform inscription similar,
or nearly so, to the inscriptions on the statuettes was found."[402]

Abridgments of the same commemorative and devotional form of words are found upon those cones
of terra-cotta that were discovered in such numbers among the foundations and in the interstices
of the structure (Fig. 149).[403]

The Mesopotamian builder was not satisfied with relying upon talismans built into the lower
part of a building or strewn under the pavements. Taylor ascertained at Mugheir and Loftus
at Sinkara that engraved cylinders were built into the four angles of the upper stories. A
brick had been omitted, leaving a small niche in which they were set up on end.[404] Profiting
by the hint thus given Sir Henry Rawlinson excavated the angles of one of the terraces of the
Birs-Nimroud at Babylon, and to the astonishment of his workmen he found the terra-cotta cylinders
upon which the reconstruction of the temple by Nebuchadnezzar is narrated exactly at the point
where he told them to dig.[405] These little tubs are called cylinders--a not very happy title.
As some of them are about three feet high (Fig. 150) they can take commemorative inscriptions
of vastly greater length than those cut upon small hard-stone cylinders. Some of these inscriptions
have as many as a hundred lines very finely engraved. Many precious specimens dating from the
times of Nebuchadnezzar and his successors have been found in the ruins of Babylon.[406]

Thus from the beginning to the end of Chaldæan civilization the custom was preserved of consecrating
a building by hiding in its substance objects to which a divine type and an engraved text gave
both a talismanic and a commemorative value.

As might be supposed the same usage was followed in Assyria. In the palace of Assurnazirpal
at Nimroud, Sir Henry Layard found some alabaster tablets with inscriptions on both their faces
hidden behind the colossal lions at one of the doorways.[407] The British Museum also possesses
a series of small figures found at Nimroud but in a comparatively modern building, the palace
of Esarhaddon. They have each two pairs of wings, one pair raised, the other depressed. They
had been strewn in the sand under the threshold of one of the doors.

It was at Khorsabad, however, that the observations were made which have most clearly shown
the importance attached to this ceremony of consecration. M. Oppert tells us that during the
summer of 1854, "M. Place disinterred from the foundations of Khorsabad a stone case in which
were five inscriptions on five different materials, gold, silver, antimony, copper and lead.
Of these five tablets he brought away four. The leaden one was too heavy to be carried off
at once, and it was despatched to Bassorah on the rafts with the bulk of the collection, whose
fate it shared." The other four tablets are in the Louvre. Their text is almost identical.
M. Oppert gives a translation of it.[408] According to his rendering, the inscription--in which
the king speaks throughout in the first person--ends with this imprecation: "May the great
lord Assur destroy from the face of this country the name and race of him who shall injure
the works of my hand, or who shall carry off my treasure!"

A little higher up, where Sargon recounts the founding of the palace, occurs a phrase which
M. Oppert translates: "The people threw their amulets." What Sargon meant by this the excavations
of M. Place have shown. In the foundations of the town walls, and especially in the beds of
sand between the bases of the sculptured bulls that guard the doorways, he found hundreds of
small objects, such as cylinders, cones, and terra-cotta statuettes. The most curious of these
are now deposited in the Louvre. The numbers and the character of these things prove that a
great number of the people must have assisted at the ceremony of consecration.

Several of these amulets were not without value either for their material or their workmanship,
but the great majority were of the roughest kind, some being merely shells or stones with a
hole through them, which must have belonged to the poorest class of the community. In many
cases their proper use could be easily divined; the holes with which they were pierced and
other marks of wear showed them to be personal amulets.[409] Those present at the ceremony
of consecrating the foundations must have detached them from the cords by which they were suspended,
and thrown them, upon the utterance of some propitiatory formula by the priests, into the sand
about to be covered with the first large slabs of alabaster.

The terra-cotta cylinders were in no less frequent use in Assyria than in Chaldæa. M. Place
found no less than fourteen still in place in niches of the harem walls at Khorsabad. The long
inscription they bore contained circumstantial details of the construction of both town and
palace. Like that on the metal tablets, it ended with a malediction on all who should dare
to raise their hands against the work of Sargon.[410]

As for the cylinders hidden in each angle of a building, none, we believe, have as yet been
found in Assyria; perhaps because no search or an inefficient search has been made for them.

We have dwelt at some length upon the orientation of buildings, upon the importance attached
to their angle stones, and upon the precautions taken to place an edifice under the protection
of the gods, and to preserve the name of its founder from oblivion. We can point to no stronger
evidence than that furnished by these proceedings as a whole, of the high civilization to which
the people of Chaldæa and Assyria had attained at a very early date. The temple and palace
did not spread themselves out upon the soil at the word of a capricious and individual fancy;
a constant will governed the arrangement of its plan, solemn rites inaugurated its construction
and recommended its welfare to the gods. The texts tell us nothing about the architects, who
raised so many noble monuments; we know neither their names, nor their social condition, but
we can divine from their works that they had strongly established traditions, and that they
could look back upon a solid and careful education for their profession. As to whether they
formed one of those close corporations in which the secrets of a trade are handed down from
generation to generation of their members, or whether they belonged to the sacerdotal caste,
we do not know. We are inclined to the latter supposition in some degree by the profoundly
religious character of the ceremonies that accompanied the inception of a building, and by
the accounts left by the ancients of those priests whom they called the Chaldæans. It was to
these Chaldæans that Mesopotamian society owed all it knew of scientific methods and modes
of thought, and it is, perhaps, fair to suppose that they turned to the practice of the arts
those intellects which they had cultivated above their fellows. Architecture especially requires
something more than manual skill, practice, and natural genius. When it is carried so far as
it was in Chaldæa it demands a certain amount of science, and the priests who by right of their
intellectual superiority held such an important place in the state, may well have contrived
to gain a monopoly as architects to the king. In their persons alone would the scientific knowledge
required for such work be combined with the power to accomplish those sacred rites which gave
to the commencement of a new building the character of a contract between man and his deity.

NOTES:

[397] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, p. 171.

[398] Les Fouilles de Chaldée, communication d'une Lettre de M. de Sarzec par M. Léon Heuzey,
§ 2 (Revue archéologique, November, 1881).

[399] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. pp. 17, 18. BOTTA had previously made the same observation (Monument
de Ninive, vol. v. p. 25).

[400] LAYARD, Discoveries, plan 2, p. 123.

[401] OPPERT, Expédition scientifique de Mésopotamie, vol. i. p. 273.

[403] As to the notions attached to these cones, whether sprinkled about the foundations of
a building, set up in certain sanctuaries, or carried upon the person, an article published
by M. LEDRAIN, à propos of an agate cone recently added to the collections of the Louvre, may
be read with advantage. Its full title is Une Page de Mythologie sémitique (la Philosophie
positive, Revue, 14th year, 1882, pp. 209-213).

[404] Taylor, Notes on the Ruins of Mugheir (Journal, &c. vol. xv., pp. 263, 264). LOFTUS,
Travels, &c. p. 247.

[405] See the Athenæum for January 20, 1855 (No. 1421), p. 84. "After two months' excavation
Colonel Rawlinson was summoned to the work by the information that ... a wall had been found
and laid bare to a distance of 190 feet, and that it turned off at right angles at each end,
to be apparently carried all round the mound, forming a square of about twenty-seven feet in
height, surmounted by a platform. He immediately rode to the excavation, examined the spot,
where he found the workmen quite discouraged and hopeless, having laboured long and found nothing.
He was now, however, well aware of these facts, and at once pointed out the spot, near the
corner, where the bricks should be removed. In half an hour a small hollow was found, from
which he immediately directed the head workman to 'bring out the commemorative cylinder'--a
command which, to the wonder and bewilderment of the people, was immediately obeyed; and a
cylinder covered with inscriptions was drawn out from its hiding-place of twenty-four centuries,
as fresh as when deposited there by the hands, probably, of Nebuchadnezzar himself! The Colonel
added in a note that the fame of his magical power had flown to Bagdad, and that he was besieged
with applications for the loan of his wonderful instrument to be used in the discovery of hidden
treasures!"

[406] Among these we may mention the Philips cylinder, from which, in speaking of the great
works carried out by Nebuchadnezzar, LENORMANT gives long extracts in his Manuel d'Histoire
ancienne, vol. ii. pp. 233 and 235.

[407] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. p. 115, and vol. ii. p. 91.

[408] OPPERT, Expédition en Mésopotamie, vol. ii. pp. 343-351.

[409] PLACE, Ninive, vol. i. p. 188.

[410] OPPERT, Expédition scientifique, vol. i. pp. 354 et seq.

§ 9.--Mechanical Resources.

The Chaldæans and Assyrians were never called upon to transport such enormous masses as some
of the Egyptian monoliths, such as the obelisks and the two great colossi at Thebes. But the
stone bulls that decorated the palaces of Nineveh were no light weight, and it was not without
difficulty that the modern explorers succeeded in conveying them to the borders of the Tigris
and loading them on the rafts upon which they began their long journeys to Paris and London.
In moving such objects from place to place the Assyrians, like the Egyptians, had no secret
beyond that of patience, and the unflinching use of human arms and shoulders in unstinted number.[411]
We know this from monuments in which the details of the operation are figured even more clearly
and with more pictorial power than in the bas-relief at El-Bercheh, which has served to make
us acquainted with the methods employed in taking an Egyptian colossus from the quarry to its site.

In Mesopotamia, as in Egypt, there were waterways that could be used at any season for the
transport of heavy masses. Quarries were made as near the banks of the Euphrates and Tigris
as possible, and when a stone monster had to be carried to a town situated at some distance
from both those rivers the canals by which the country was intersected in every direction supplied
their place. Going down stream, and especially in flood time, no means of propulsion were required;
the course of the boats or rafts was directed by means of heavy oars like those still used
by the boatmen who navigate the Tigris in keleks, or rafts, supported on inflated hides; in
ascending the streams towing was called into play, as we know from one of the Kouyundjik bas-reliefs.[412]
In this the stone in course of transport is oblong in shape and is placed upon a wide flat
boat, beyond which it extends both at the stern and the bows. It is securely fastened with
pieces of wood held together by strong pins. There are three tow ropes, two fastened to the
stone itself and the third to the bow of the boat.

The towers pull upon these cables by means of smaller cords passed round the shoulders of each
and spliced to the main ropes; by such means they could bring far more weight to bear than
if they had been content to hold the cable in their hands, as in Egypt. The bas-relief in question
is mutilated, but we may guess that a hundred men were attached to each cable, which would
make three hundred in all obeying the single will of the superintending engineer who is perched
upon the stone and directing their movements. On each flank of the gang march overseers armed
with swords and rattans that would be quick to descend on the back and loins of any shirker.

More than one instance of such punishment may be seen on the bas-relief reproduced in part
in our Fig. 151. In its lower division two or three of these slave-drivers may be seen with
their hands raised against the workmen; in one case the latter sinks to the ground beneath
the blows rained upon him. The way in which the whole series of operations is represented in
this Kouyundjik relief is most curious. High up in the field we often find the king himself,
standing in his chariot and urging on the work. The whole occupies several of Layard's large
plates. We can only reproduce the central group, which is the most interesting to the student
of engineering in ancient Mesopotamia.

The block of alabaster that we saw a moment ago on a boat towed by hundreds of human arms has
been delivered to the sculptors and has put on, under their hands, the rough form of a mitred,
human-headed bull. It will be completed after being put in place; the last touches of the chisel
and the brush will then be given to it; but the heaviest part of the work is already done and
the block has lost much of its original size and weight. Firmly packed with timber, the bull
lies upon its side upon a sledge which is curved in front like a boat, or a modern sleigh.
Two cables are fastened to its prow and two to its stern. The engineer is again seated upon
the stone and claps his hands to give the time, but now he is accompanied by three soldiers
who appear to support his authority by voice and gesture. In order to prevent friction and
to facilitate the movement of the sledge, rollers are thrust beneath its runners as they progress.
Before the huge mass will start, however, the straining cords and muscles have to be helped
by a thrust from behind. This is given by means of a huge lever, upon which a number of men
pull with all their weight, while its curved foot is engaged under the sledge. A workman is
occupied with the reinforcement of the fulcrum by thrusting a wedge in between its upper surface
and the lower edge of the lever. When everything is ready a signal will be given, the men behind
will throw their weight upon the lever, the sledge will rise a little, the ropes will strain
and tighten, and the heavy mass will glide forward upon the greased rollers until arms and
legs give out and an interval for rest is called, to be followed presently by a repetition
of the same process. Every precaution is taken to minimize the effect of any accident that
may take place in the course of the operation. Behind the sledge spare ropes and levers are
carried, some upon men's backs, others on small handcarts. There are also a number of workmen
carrying rollers.

We shall only refer to one more of these reliefs and that the one with which the series appears
to close (Fig. 152). This carved picture has been thought, not without reason, to represent
the erection of the bull[413] in its destined place. After its slow but uninterrupted march
the huge monster has arrived upon the plateau where it has been awaited. By one great final
effort it has been dragged up an inclined plane to the summit of the mound and has been set
upon its feet. Nothing remains to be done but to pull and thrust it into its place against
the doorway it has to guard and ornament. The same sledge, the same rollers, the same lever,
the same precautions against accident are to be recognized here as in the last picture. The
only difference is in the position of the statue itself. Standing upright like this it is much
more liable to injury than when prone on its flank. New safeguards have therefore been introduced.
It is packed under its belly with squares of wood and inclosed in scaffolding to prevent dangerous
vibration. Additional precautions against this latter danger are provided by gangs of men who
walk at each side and hold, some ropes fastened to the uprights of the scaffolding, others
long forked poles engaged under its horizontal pieces. By these means equilibrium could be
restored after any extra oscillation on the part of the sledge and its burden.

All these manoeuvres are remarkable for the skill and prodigality with which human strength
was employed; of all the scientific tools invented to economise effort and to shorten the duration
of a task, the only one they seem ever to have used was the most simple of all, the lever,
an instrument that must have been invented over and over again wherever men tried to lift masses
of stone or wood from the ground. Its discovery must, in fact, have taken place long before
the commencement of what we call civilization, although its theory was first expounded by the
Greek mathematicians.

In a relief in the palace of Assurnazirpal at Nimroud, there is a pulley exactly similar to
those often seen over a modern well.[414] A cord runs over it and supports a bucket. There
is no evidence that the Assyrians employed such a contrivance for any purpose but the raising
of water. We cannot say that they used it to lift heavy weights, but the fact that they understood
its principle puts them slightly above the Egyptians as engineers.

NOTES:

[411] As to the simplicity of Egyptian engineering, see the History of Art in Ancient Egypt,
vol. ii. p. 72, and fig. 43.

[412] See LAYARD, Monuments, 2nd series, plate ii. The same author gives a detailed description
of this picture in his Discoveries, pp. 104-106.

[413] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 112.

[414] LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. ii. p. 32.

§ 10.--On the Graphic Processes Employed in the Representations of Buildings.

The Chaldæans and Assyrians knew as little of perspective as they did of mechanics. When they
had to figure a building and its contents, or a landscape background, they could not resist
the temptation of combining many things which could not be seen from a single standpoint. Like
the painters and sculptors of Thebes they mixed up in the most naive fashion those graphic
processes that we keep carefully apart. All that they cared about was to be understood. We
need not here reproduce the observations we made on this subject in the corresponding chapter
of Egyptian Art;[415] it will suffice to give a few examples of the simultaneous employment
by Ninevite sculptors of contradictory systems.

It is not difficult to cite examples of things that may, with some little ingenuity, be brought
within the definition of a plan. The most curious and strongly marked of these is furnished
by one of the most ancient monuments that have come down to us; we mean a statue found at Tello
in Lower Chaldæa by M. de Sarzec. It represents a personage seated and holding on his knees
an engraved tablet on which two or three different things are represented (Fig. 153). On the
right there is one of those styles with which letters or images were cut in the soft clay,
at the bottom of the tablet there is a scale which we know from another monument of the same
kind to have been originally 10.8 inches in length, i.e. the Babylonian half-cubit or span.
By far the larger part of the field, however, is occupied by an irregular figure in which the
trace of a fortified wall may be easily recognized. When these monuments were first brought
to France this statue was supposed to be that of an architect. When the inscriptions were interpreted,
however, this opinion had to be modified in some degree. They were found to contain the same
royal title as the other figure of similar style and material discovered by M. de Sarzec on
the same spot, the title, namely, of the individual whom archæologists have at present agreed
to call Gudea.[416] It therefore seems to represent that prince in the character of an architect,
as the constructor of the building in which his statues were placed as a sacred deposit. Must
we take it to be the plan of his royal city as a whole, or only of his palace? It is difficult
to answer this question, especially while no precise information has been obtained from the
inscriptions, whose interpretation presents many difficulties. There can, however, be no doubt
that the engraver has given us a plan according to his lights of a wall strengthened by flanking
towers, of which those with the boldest salience guard the six passages into the interior.

We find a still more simple plan upon an Assyrian monument of much later date, namely, upon
the armour of beaten bronze that formerly protected the gates of Balawat. In this example (Fig.
154) the doorways, the angles, and the centres of the two longer curtains are strengthened
by towers.

The way in which the sculptor has endeavoured to suggest the crenellations shows that these
plans are not drawn on the same principal as ours; there is no section taken at the junction
with the soil or at a determined height; the draughtsman in all probability wished to give
an idea of the height of the flanking towers. His representation is an ideal projection similar
to those of which we find so many examples in Egypt, only that here we have the towers laid
flat outside the fortification to which they belong in such a fashion that their summits are
as far as possible from the centre of the structure. We shall see this better in another plan
of the same kind in which the details are more carefully made out (Fig. 155). It comes from
a bas-relief, on which a circular fortress, divided into four equal parts by walls radiating
from its centre, is portrayed.

In this relief we find another favourite process of the Egyptians employed, namely, that in
which a vertical section is combined with a projection, so that the interior of the building
and its arrangements may be laid open to the spectator. In this instance we can see what is
passing in the four principal chambers of the castle. In each chamber one or two persons are
occupied over what appear to be religious rites.

In another Nimroud bas-relief we find a still greater variety of processes used upon a single
work (Fig. 156). The picture shows the king enthroned in the centre of a fortified city which
he has just captured. Prisoners are being brought before him; his victorious troops have erected
their tents in the city itself. Beside these tents three houses of unequal size represent the
dwellings of the conquered. The enceinte with its towers is projected on the soil in the fashion
above noticed; a longitudinal section lays bare the interiors of the tents and shows us the
soldiers at their various occupations. As for the houses, they are represented by their principal
façades, which are drawn in elevation.

When he had to deal with more complicated images, as in the reliefs at Kouyundjik representing
the conquests and expeditions of Assurbanipal, the artist modified his processes at will so
as to combine in the narrow space at his disposal all the information that he thought fit to
give. See for instance the relief in which the Assyrians celebrate their capture of Madaktu,
an important city of Susiana, by a sort of triumph (Fig. 157). The town itself, with its towered
walls and its suburbs in which every house is sheltered by a date tree, is figured in the centre.
At the top and sides the walls are projected outwards from the city; at the bottom they are
thrown inwards in order, no doubt, to leave room for the tops of the date trees. Moreover,
the sculptor had to find room for a large building on the right of his fortification. This
is, apparently, the palace of the king. Guarded by a barbican and surrounded by trees it rises
upon its artificial mound some little distance in front of the city. The artist also wished
to show that palace and city were protected by a winding river teeming with fish, into which
fell a narrower stream in the neighbourhood of the palace. If he had projected the walls of
the palace and its barbican in the same way as those of the other buildings he would either
have had to encroach upon his streams and to hide their junction or to divert their course.
In order to avoid this he made use of several points of view, and laid his two chief structures
on the ground in such a fashion that they form an oblique angle with the rest of the buildings.
The result thus obtained looks strange to us, but it fulfilled his purpose; it gave a clear
idea of how the various buildings were situated with respect to each other and it reproduced
with fidelity the topographical features of the conquered country.

The chief desire of the sculptor was to be understood. That governing thought can nowhere be
more clearly traced than in one of the reliefs dealing with the exploits of Sennacherib.[417]
Here he had to explain that in order to penetrate into a mountainous country like Armenia,
the king had been compelled to follow the bed of a torrent between high wooded banks. In the
middle of the picture we see the king in his chariot, followed by horsemen and foot soldiers
marching in the water. Towards the summit of the relief, the heights that overhang the stream
are represented by the usual network. But how to represent the wooded mountains on this side
of the water? The artist has readily solved the question, according to his lights, by showing
the near mountains and their trees upside down, a solution which is quite on all fours, in
principle, with the plans above described. The hills are projected on each side of the line
made by the torrent, so that it runs along their bases, as it does in fact; but in this case
the topsy-turviness of the trees and hills has a very startling effect. The intentions of the
artist, however, are perfectly obvious; his process is childish, but it is quite clear.

None of these plans or pictures have, any more than those of Egypt, a scale by which the proportions
of the objects introduced can be judged. The men, who were more important in the eye of the
artist than the buildings, are always taller than the houses and towers. This will be seen
still more clearly in the figure we reproduce from the Balawat gates (Fig. 158). It represents
a fortress besieged by Shalmaneser II., three people stand upon the roof of the building; if
we restore their lower limbs we shall see that their height is equal to that of the castle
itself.[418]

This short examination of the spirit and principles of Assyrian figuration was necessary in
order to prevent embarrassment and doubt in speaking of the architectural designs and other
things of the same kind that we may find reproduced in the bas-reliefs. Unless we had thoroughly
understood the system of which the sculptors made use, we should have been unable to base our
restorations upon their works in any important degree; and, besides, if there be one touchstone
more sure than another by which we may determine the plastic genius of a people, it is the
ingenuity, or the want of it, shown in the contrivance of means to make lines represent the
thickness of bodies and the distances of various planes. In this matter Chaldæa and Assyria
remained, like Egypt, in the infancy of art. They were even excelled by the Egyptians, who
showed more taste and continuity in the management of their processes than their Eastern rivals.
Nothing so absurd is to be found in the sculptures of the Nile valley as these hills and trees
turned upside down, and we shall presently see that a like superiority is shown in the way
figures are brought together in the bas-reliefs. In our second volume on Egyptian art we drew
attention to some Theban sculptures in which a vague suspicion of the true laws of perspective
seemed to be struggling to light. The attempt to apply them to the composition of certain groups
was real, though timid. Nothing of the kind is to be found in Assyrian sculpture. The Mesopotamian
artist never seems for a moment to have doubted the virtues of his own method, a method which
consisted in placing the numerous figures, whose position in a space of more or less depth
he wished to suggest, one above another on the field of his relief. He trusted, in fact, to
the intelligence of the spectator, and took but little pains to help the latter in making sense
of the images put before him.

NOTES:

[415] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. ii. chapter i. § 1.

[416] M. J. HALÉVY disputes this reading of the word. As we are unable to discuss the question,
we must refer our readers to his observations (Les Monuments Chaldéens et la Question de Sumir
et d'Accad) in the Comptes rendus de l'Académie des Inscriptions, 1882, p. 107. M. Halévy believes
it should be read as the name of the prince Nabou or Nebo. The question is only of secondary
importance, but M. Halévy enlarges its scope by reopening the whole matter of debate between
himself and M. Oppert as to the true character of what Assyriologists call the Sumerian language
and written character. The Comptes rendus only gives a summary of the paper. The same volume
contains a résumé of M. Oppert's reply (1882, p. 123: Inscriptions de Gudéa, et seq).

[417] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 341.

[418] The same disproportion between men and buildings is to be found in many other reliefs
(see figs. 39, 43, and 60).

Of the remains that have come down to us from ancient Egypt the oldest, the most important
in some respects, and beyond dispute the most numerous, are the sepulchres. Of the two lives
of the Egyptian, that of which we know the most is his posthumous life--the life he led in
the shadows of that carefully-hidden subterranean dwelling that he called his "good abode."
While in every other country bodies after a few years are nothing but a few handfuls of dust,
in Egypt they creep out in thousands to the light of day, from grottoes in the flanks of the
mountains, from pits sunk through the desert sand and from hollows in the sand itself. They
rise accompanied by long inscriptions that speak for them, and make us sharers in their joys
and sorrows, in their religious beliefs and in the promises in which they placed their hopes
when their eyes were about to close for ever. A peculiarity of which Egypt offers the only
instance is thus explained. The house of the Memphite citizen and the palace of the king himself,
can only now be restored by hints culled from the reliefs and inscriptions--hints which sometimes
lend themselves to more than one interpretation, while the tombs of Egypt are known to us in
every detail of structure and arrangement. In more than one instance they have come down to
us with their equipment of epitaphs and inscribed prayers, of pictures carved and painted on
the walls and all the luxury of their sepulchral furniture, exactly in fact as they were left
when their doors were shut upon their silent tenants so many centuries ago.[419]

We are far indeed from being able to say this of Assyria and Chaldæa. In those countries it
is the palace, the habitation of the sovereign, that has survived in the best condition, and
from it we may imagine what the houses of private people were like; but we know hardly anything
of their tombs. Chaldæan tombs have been discovered in these latter years, but they are anonymous
and mute. We do not possess a single funerary inscription dating from the days when the two
nations who divided Mesopotamia between them were still their own masters. The arrangements
of the nameless tombs in lower Chaldæa are extremely simple and their furnishing very poor,
if we compare them with the sepulchres in the Egyptian cemeteries. As for Assyrian burying-places,
none have yet been discovered. Tombs have certainly been found at Nimroud, at Kouyundjik, at
Khorsabad, and in all the mounds in the neighbourhood of Mossoul, but never among or below
the Assyrian remains. They are always in the mass of earth and various débris that has accumulated
over the ruins of the Assyrian palaces, which is enough to show that they date from a time
posterior to the fall of the Mesopotamian Empires. Any doubts that may have lingered on this
point have been removed by the character of the objects found, which are never older than the
Seleucidæ or the Parthians, and sometimes date even from the Roman epoch.[420]

What then did the Assyrians do with their dead? No one has attacked this question more vigorously
than Sir Henry Layard. In his attempt to answer it he explored the whole district of Mossoul,
but without result; he pointed out the interest of the inquiry to all his collaborators, he
talked about it to the more intelligent among his workmen, and promised a reward to whoever
should first show him an Assyrian grave. He found nothing, however, and neither Loftus, Place,
nor Rassam have been more successful. Neither texts nor monuments help us to fill up the gap.
The excavations of M. de Sarzec have indeed brought to light the fragments of an Assyrian stele
in which a funerary scene is represented, but unfortunately its meaning is by no means clear.[421]
I cannot point to an Assyrian relief in which the same theme is treated. Among so many battle
pictures we do not find a single scene analogous to those so often repeated in the pictures
and sculptures of Greece. The death and burial of an Assyrian warrior gave a theme to no Assyrian
sculptor. It would appear that the national pride revolted from any confession that Assyrians
could be killed like other men. All the corpses in the countless battlefields are those of
enemies, who are sometimes mutilated and beheaded.[422]

These despised bodies were left to rot where they fell, and to feed the crows and vultures;[423]
but it is impossible to believe that the Assyrians paid no honours to the bodies of their princes,
their nobles, and their relations, and some texts recently discovered make distinct allusions
to funerary rites.[424] We can hardly agree to the suggestions of M. Place, who asks whether
it is not possible that the Assyrians committed their corpses to the river, like the modern
Hindoos, or to birds of prey, like the Guebres.[425] Usages so entirely out of harmony with
the customs of other ancient nations would certainly have been noticed by contemporary writers,
either Greek or Hebrew. In any case some allusion to them would survive in Assyrian literature,
but no hint of the kind is to be found.

But after we have rejected those hypotheses the question is no nearer to solution than before;
we are still confronted by the remarkable fact that the Assyrians so managed to hide their
dead that no trace of them has ever been discovered. A conjecture offered by Loftus is the
most inviting.[426] He reminds us that although cemeteries are entirely absent from Assyria,
Chaldæa is full of them. Between Niffer and Mugheir each mound is a necropolis. The Assyrians
knew that Chaldæa was the birthplace of their race and they looked upon it as a sacred territory.
We find the Ninevite kings, even when they were hardest upon their rebellious subjects in the
south, holding it as a point of honour to preserve and restore the temples of Babylon and to
worship there in royal pomp. Perhaps the Assyrians, or rather those among them who could afford
the expenses of the journey, had their dead transferred to the graveyards of Lower Chaldæa.
The latter country, or, at least, a certain portion of it, would thus be a kind of holy-land
where those Semites whose earliest traditions were connected with its soil would think themselves
assured of a more tranquil repose and of protection from more benignant deities. The soil of
Assyria itself would receive none but the corpses of those slaves and paupers who, counting
for nothing in their lives, would be buried when dead in the first convenient corner, without
epitaph or sepulchral furnishing.

This hypothesis would explain two things that need explanation--the absence from Assyria of
such tombs as are found in every other country of the Ancient World, and the great size of
the Chaldæan cemeteries. Both Loftus and Taylor received the same impression, that the assemblages
of coffins, still huge in spite of the numbers that have been destroyed during the last twenty
centuries, can never have been due entirely to the second and third rate cities in whose neighbourhood
they occur. Piled one upon another they form mounds covering wide spaces of ground, and so
high that they may be seen for many miles across the plain.[427] This district must have been
the common cemetery of Chaldæa and perhaps of Assyria; the dead of Babylon must have been conveyed
there. Is it too much to suppose that by means of rivers and canals those of Nineveh may have
been taken there too? Was it not in exactly that fashion that mummies were carried by thousands
from one end of the Nile valley to the other, to the places where they had to rejoin there
ancestors?[428]

But we need not go back to Ancient Egypt to find examples of corpses making long journeys in
order to reach some great national burying-place. Loftus received the first hint of his suggestion
from what he himself saw at Nedjef and at Kerbela, where he met funeral processions more than
once on the roads of Irak-Arabi. From every town in Persia the bodies of Shiite Mussulmans,
who desire to repose near the mortal remains of Ali and his son, are transported after death
into Mesopotamia.[429] According to Loftus the cemetery of Nedjef alone, that by which the
mosque known as Meched-Ali is surrounded, receives the bodies of from five to eight thousand
Persians every year. Now the journey between Nineveh and Calah and the plains of Lower Chaldæa
was far easier than it is now--considering especially the state of the roads--between Tauris,
Ispahan, and Teheran, on the one hand and Nedjef on the other. The transit from Assyria to
Chaldæa could be made, like that of the Egyptian mummy, entirely by water, that is to say,
very cheaply, very easily, and very rapidly.

We are brought up, however, by one objection. Although as a rule subject to the Assyrians,
the Chaldæans were from the eleventh to the seventh century before our era in a constant state
of revolt against their northern neighbours; they struggled hard for their independence and
waged long and bloody wars with the masters of Nineveh. Can the Assyrian kings have dared to
confide their mortal remains to sepulchres in the midst of a people who had shown themselves
so hostile to their domination? Must they not have trembled for the security of tombs surrounded
by a rebellious and angry populace? And the furious conflicts that we find narrated in the
Assyrian inscriptions, must they not often have interrupted the transport of bodies and compelled
them to wait without sepulture for months and even years?

Further explorations and the decipherment of the texts will one day solve the problem. Meanwhile
we must attempt to determine the nature of Chaldæo-Assyrian beliefs as to a future life. We
shall get no help from Herodotus. Intending to describe the manners and customs of the Chaldæans
in a special work that he either never wrote or that has been lost,[430] he treated Mesopotamia
in much less ample fashion than Egypt, in his history. All that he leaves us on the subject
we are now studying is this passing remark, "The Babylonians put their dead in honey, and their
funerary lamentations are very like those of the Egyptians."[431] Happily we have the Chaldæan
cemeteries and the sculptured monuments of Assyria to which we can turn for information. The
funerary writings of the Egyptians allow us to read their hearts as an open book. We know that
the men who lived in the days of the ancient empire looked upon the posthumous life as a simple
continuation of life in the sun. They believed it to be governed by the same wants, but capable
of infinite prolongation so long as those wants were supplied. And so they placed their dead
in tombs where they were surrounded by such things as they required when alive, especially
by meat and drink. Finally, they endeavoured to ensure them the enjoyment of these things to
the utmost limit of time by preserving their bodies against dissolution. If these were to fall
into dust the day after they entered upon their new abode, the provisions and furniture with
which it was stocked would be of no use.

The Chaldæans kept a similar object before them. They neglected nothing to secure the body
against the action of damp, in the first place by making the sides of their vaults and the
coffins themselves water-tight, secondly, by providing for the rapid escape of rain water from
the cemetery,[432] and, finally, if they did not push the art of embalming so far as the Egyptians,
they entered upon the same path. The bodies we find in the oldest tombs are imperfect mummies
compared with those of Egypt, but the skeleton, at least, is nearly always in an excellent
state of preservation; it is only when handled that it tumbles into dust. In the more spacious
tombs the body lies upon a mat, with its head upon a cushion. In most cases the remains of
bandages and linen cloths were found about it. Mats, cushions, and bandages had all been treated
with bitumen. A small terra-cotta model in the British Museum shows a dead man thus stowed
in his coffin; his hands are folded on his breast, and round the whole lower part of the body
the bands that gave him the appearance of a mummy may be traced.

The funerary furniture is far from being as rich and varied as it is in the tombs of Egypt
and Etruria, but the same idea has governed the choice of objects in both cases. When the corpse
is that of a man we find at his side the cylinder which served him as seal, his arms, arrow
heads of flint or bronze, and the remains of the staff he carried in his hand.[433] In a woman's
tomb the body has jewels on its neck, its wrists and ankles; jewels are strewn about the tomb
and placed on the lid of the coffin. Among other toilet matters have been found small glass
bottles, fragments of a bouquet, and cakes of the black pigment which the women of the East
still employ to lengthen their eyebrows and enhance their blackness.[434]

The vases which are always present in well-preserved tombs, show the ideas of the Mesopotamians
on death more clearly than anything else. Upon the palm of one hand or behind the head is placed
a cup, sometimes of bronze, oftener of terra-cotta. From it the dead man can help himself to
the water or fermented liquors with which the great clay jars that are spread over the floor
of his grave are filled (Figs. 159 and 160). Near these also we find shallow bowls or saucers,
used no doubt as plates for holding food. Date-stones, chicken and fish bones are also present
in great numbers. In one tomb the snout of a swordfish has been found, in another a wild boar's
skull. It would seem too that the idea of adding imitation viands to real ones occurred to
the Chaldæans as well as to the Egyptians.[435] From one grave opened by Taylor four ducks
carved in stone were taken.

The sepulchres in which the objects we have been mentioning were found, are the most ancient
in Chaldæa--on this all the explorers are agreed. Their situation in the lowest part of the
funerary mounds, the aspect of the characters engraved upon the cylinders and the style of
the things they contained, all go to prove their age. In similar tombs discovered by M. de
Sarzec at Sirtella, in the same region, a tablet of stone and a bronze statuette, differing
in no important particular from those deposited in foundation stones, were found. The texts
engraved upon them leave no doubt as to their great antiquity.[436] It is then to the early
Chaldæan monarchy that we must assign these tombs, which so clearly betray ideas and beliefs
practically identical with those that find their freest expression in the mastabas of the ancient
Egyptian Empire.

In Mesopotamia, as in Egypt, the human intellect arrived with the lapse of time at something
beyond this childish and primitive belief. Men did not, however, repel it altogether as false
and ridiculous; they continued to cherish it at the bottom of their hearts, and to allow it
to impose certain lines of action upon them which otherwise could hardly be explained or justified.
As in Egypt, and in later years in Greece, a new and more abstract conception was imposed upon
the first. Logically, the second theory was the negation of its predecessor, but where imagination
and sentiment play the principal rôle, such contradictions are lost sight of.

We have elsewhere[437] traced the process by which the imagination was led to sketch out a
new explanation of the mystery of death. As man's experience increased, and his faculty for
observation became more powerful, he had to make a greater mental effort before he could believe
in the immortality of the body, and in a life prolonged to infinity in the darkness of the
tomb. In order to satisfy the craving for perpetuity, a something was imagined, we can hardly
say what, a shade, an imago, that detached itself from the body at the moment of death, and
took itself off with the lightness of a bird. A great space, with no definite size, shape,
or situation, in which these shades of the departed could meet each other and enjoy greater
freedom than in the tomb, was added to the first conception. This less material belief was
better adapted than the first to the moral instincts of humanity. A material and organic existence
passed in the grave dealt out the same fate to good and bad alike. On the other hand, nothing
was more easy than to divide the kingdom of the shades into two compartments, into two distinct
domains, and to place in one those whose conduct had been deserving of reward; in the other,
those whose crimes and vices had been insufficiently punished upon earth.

It is not to the Chaldæan sepulchres that we owe our knowledge that the Semites of Mesopotamia
followed in the footsteps of the Egyptians, when they found themselves in face of the problem
of life and death; it is to the literature of the Assyrians. Among those tablets of terra-cotta
from the library of Assurbanipal that are now preserved in the British Museum, George Smith
discovered, in 1873, a mythological document in which the descent of Istar to the infernal
regions in search of her lover Tammouz is recounted. Of this he gives a first translation,
which is already out of date. Since his discovery was announced, the most learned Assyriologists
have made a study of the document, and now even those among them who most seldom think alike,
are in agreement as to its meaning except in a few unimportant particulars.[438] No doubt remains
as to the general significance of the piece; we may even compare it with other documents from
the same library in which there is much to confirm and complete its contents.

Even if there were no evidence to the contrary, we might safely affirm that the first conception
was not effaced from the minds of the Assyrians by the second. M. Halévy has translated an
Assyrian text, whose meaning he thus epitomizes: "What becomes of the individual deposited
in a tomb? A curious passage in one of the 'books' from the library of Assurbanipal answers
this question, indirectly, indeed, but without any ambiguity. After death the vital and indestructible
principle, the incorporeal spirit, is disengaged from the body; it is called in Assyrian ékimmou
or égimmou.... The ékimmou inhabits the tomb and reposes upon the bed (zalalu) of the corpse.
If well treated by the children of the defunct, he becomes their protector; if not, their evil
genius and scourge. The greatest misfortune that can befall a man is to be deprived of burial.
In such a case his spirit, deprived of a resting-place and of the funerary libations, leads
a wandering and miserable existence; he is exposed to all kinds of ill-treatment at the hands
of his fellow spirits, who show him no mercy."

Here we find certain elements of that primitive belief that would escape us in a mere examination
of the Chaldæan tombs. We see how they understood the connection between the living and the
dead, and why they so passionately desired to receive due sepulture. These ideas and sentiments
are identical with those which M. Fustel de Coulanges has analysed so deeply in his Cité antique.
They subsisted in all their strength in Assyria, and must have had all the consequences, all
the social effects that they had elsewhere, and yet we find mentioned a home for the dead,
a joyless country in which they could assemble in their countless numbers; as Egypt had its
Ament and Greece her Hades, so Chaldæa and Assyria had their hell, their place of departed
ghosts. We know from the narrative of Istar that they looked upon it as an immense building,
situated in the centre of the earth and bounded on every side by the great river whose waters
bathe the foundations of the world. This country of the dead is called the "land where one
sees nothing" (mat la namari), or the "land whence one does not return" (mat la tayarti). The
government of the country is in the hands of Nergal, the god of war, and his spouse Allat,
the sister of Astarte. The house is surrounded by seven strong walls. In each wall there is
a single door, which is fastened by a bolt as soon as a new comer has entered. Each door is
kept by an incorruptible guardian. We cannot quote the whole of the story; we give, however,
a few lines in which the chief features of the Assyrian conception is most clearly shown. Istar
speaks:--

    Let me return [toward the house],

           *       *       *       *       *

    [Toward] the house in which Irkalla lives,
    In which the evening has no morning,
    [Towards the country] whence there is no return,
    [Whose inhabitants,] deprived of light,
    [Have dust for food] and mud to nourish them,
    A tunic and wings for vesture,
    [Who see no day,] who sit in the shadows,
    [In the house] into which I must enter,
    [They live there,] (once) the wearers of crowns,
    [The wearers] of crowns who governed the world in ancient days,
    Of whom Bel and Anou have perpetuated the names and memory.
    There too stand the foundations of the earth, the meeting of the
           mighty waters,
    In the palace of dust into which I must come,
    Live the prince and the noble,
    Live the king and the strong man,
    Live the guardians of the depths of the great gods,
    Live Ner and Etana.

A long dialogue follows between Istar and the guardian of the gate, by which we find that there
was a rigorous law compelling all who came to strip themselves of their clothes before they
could enter. In spite of her resistance, Istar herself was obliged to submit to this law. From
other texts we learn that the entrance to these infernal regions was situated at the foot of
the "northern mountain," a sort of Assyrian Olympus.

According to the fragment above quoted the condition of the dead was truly piteous; they had
no food but dust and mud; their dwelling is sometimes called bit-edi, the "house of solitude,"
because in the life of misery and privation they lead no one takes any thought for others,
his only care is to relieve his own troubles. Consequently there are no families nor any social
or common life. The conscience protested against the injustice of confounding with the crowd
those mortals who had distinguished themselves when alive by their exploits or virtues. Thus
we find in a recently copied passage from the great epic of Izdubar, the Assyrian Hercules,
that valiant soldiers--those no doubt who had fallen in the "Wars of Assur"--were rewarded
for their prowess. As soon as they entered the shadow kingdom they were stretched upon a soft
couch and surrounded by their relations. Their father and mother supported the head the enemy's
sword had wounded, their wives stood beside them and waited on them with zeal and tenderness.
They were refreshed and had their strength restored by the pure water of life.

The idea of a final reward is expressed in still more unmistakable accents in a religious song
of which two fragments have come down to us. The poet celebrates the felicity of the just taking
his food with the gods and become a god himself:--

    Wash thy hands, purify thy hands,
    The gods, thine elders, will wash and purify their hands;
    Eat the pure nourishment in the pure disks,
    Drink the pure water from the pure vases;
    Prepare to enjoy the peace of the just!

           *       *       *       *       *

    They have brought their pure water,
    Anat, the great spouse of Anou,
    Has held thee in her sacred arms;
    Iaou has transferred thee into a holy place;
    He has transferred thee from his sacred hands;
    He has transferred thee into the midst of honey and fat,
    He has poured magic water into thy mouth,
    And the virtue of the water has opened thy mouth.

           *       *       *       *       *

As to where this paradise was placed we have no certain information. It could hardly have been
a mere separate district of that abode of shades that is painted in such sombre colours. We
must suppose that it was open to the sunlight; it was perhaps on one of the slopes of the Northern
Mountain, in the neighbourhood of the luminous summit on which the gods and goddesses had their
home.

The idea of a reward for the just carries as its corollary that of a punishment for the unjust,
but in spite of the logical connection between the two notions, we cannot affirm that the Elysium
of these Semites had a Tartarus by its side. No allusion to such a place has been found in
any of the texts already translated. On the other hand, we find some evidence that the Assyrians
believed in the resurrection of the dead. Marduk and his spouse Zarpanitu often bear the title
of "those who make the dead live again" (muballith or muballithat miti or mituti). The same
epithet is sometimes given to other deities, especially to Istar. As yet we do not know when
and under what conditions renewed life was to be granted.

We need hardly add that the ideas that find expression in the Assyrian texts were by no means
peculiar to the northern people. All Assyriologists agree that in everything connected with
the intellect, the Assyrians invented nothing; they did nothing but adapt and imitate, translate
and copy from the more prolific Chaldæans, who furnished as it were the bread upon which their
minds were nourished. It is the Chaldee intellect that we study when we question the texts
from the library of Assurbanipal.

Other passages in these terra-cotta books help to complete and illustrate those from which
we have, as it were, gained a first glimpse of the Assyrian Under-world; but we shall never,
in all probability, know it as we already know that of the Egyptians. This is partly, perhaps,
because it was less complex, and partly because the fascination it exercised over the mind
of man was not so great.

History contains no mention of a people more preoccupied with the affairs of the grave than
the Egyptians. Doubtless the Chaldæans had to give a certain amount of their attention to the
same problem, and we know that it was resolved in the same sense and by the same sequence of
beliefs both on the banks of the Euphrates and on those of the Nile; but other questions were
more attractive to the peoples of Mesopotamia. Their curiosity was roused chiefly by the phenomena
of the skies, by the complicated phantasmagoria offered nightly in the depths above. These
they set themselves to observe with patience and exactitude, and it is to the habits thus formed
that they, in part at least, owed their scientific superiority and the honour they derive from
the incontestable fact that they have furnished to modern civilization elements more useful
and more readily assimilated than any other great people of the remote past.

And yet the Semites of Chaldæa were not without myths relating to the abode of departed souls
of which some features may be grasped. In order to get a better comprehension of them, we must
not only look to the discovery and translation of new texts, but to the intelligent study of
figured representations. At least this seems to be the lesson of a curious monument recently
discovered.[439]

People may differ as to the significance of this or that detail, but no one will deny that
the plaque is religious and funerary in its general character, and that, whatever may have
been its purpose, it is as a whole connected with the memory and worship of the dead, and therefore
that this is the place for such remarks as we have to make upon it.

The object in question is a bronze plaque, sculptured on both faces, which Péretié acquired
at Hama in Northern Syria. The dealer from whom he bought it declared that it came into his
hands from a peasant of Palmyra. As to where the latter found it we know nothing. In any case
the oasis of Tadmor was a dependency of Mesopotamia as long as the power of the Chaldæan and
Assyrian monarchies lasted, and the characteristic features of the work in question are entirely
Assyrian. In that respect neither Péretié nor Clermont-Ganneau made any mistake.

This plaque is a tall rectangle in shape. At its two upper angles there are salient rings or
staples, apparently meant to receive a cord or chain. At the bottom it has a slight ledge,
suggesting that it stood upon its base and was suspended at the same time. However this may
have been, it should be carefully noticed that both of its faces were meant to be seen.

The face we call the obverse is entirely occupied by the body of a fantastic quadruped, partly
chiselled in slight relief, partly engraved. This monster is upright on his hind feet; his
back is turned to the spectator, while the lower part of his body is seen almost in profile.
He clings with his two fore feet to the upper edge of the plaque, and looks over it as over
a wall. His fore paws and his head are modelled in the round. He has four wings; two large
ones with imbricated feathers grow from his shoulders, while a smaller pair are visible beneath
them. This arrangement we have already encountered in undoubted Assyrian monuments (see Figs.
8, 29, and 123). If we turn the plaque, we find ourselves face to face with the beast. His
skull is depressed, his features hideous, his grinning jaws wrinkled like those of a lion or
panther. His feline character is enforced by his formidable claws.

The body, lithe and lean as that of a leopard, is covered with a reticulated marking. His upturned
tail nearly touches his loins, while another detail of his person exactly reproduces the contours
of a snake.[440] The hind feet are those of a bird-of-prey.

We must now describe the reverse of this singular monument (Fig. 162). In the first place its
upper edge is surmounted by the claws and face of the beast just described, which thus dominates,
as it were, the scenes depicted below.

These scenes are divided by horizontal bands into four divisions, and those divisions are by
no means arbitrary; they show us what the sculptor thought as to the four regions into which
the Assyrian universe was divided. Those regions are the heavens, the atmosphere, the earth,
and hell or hades.

The highest division is the narrowest of all. It only contains the stars and a few other symbols
grouped almost exactly as we find them on not a few monuments of Mesopotamia.[441] The non-sidereal
emblems in this division are, no doubt, the attributes of gods who live beside the stars in
the depths of the firmament.

In the second division we find seven animal-headed personages passing from right to left. We
need not stop to describe their appearance or gesture; we have already encountered them at
Nineveh mounting guard at the palace gates (Figs. 6 and 7); they belong to the class of demons
who, according to circumstances, are alternately the plagues and protectors of mankind. The
place they occupy represents a middle region between heaven and earth, namely, the atmosphere,
which was believed to be entirely peopled by these genii.

The third division contains a funerary scene by which we are at once transported to earth.
On the right there is a standard or candelabrum, and on the left a group of three figures.
One of these appears to be a man, the other two have lions' heads and resemble the genii of
the division above. The most important group, however, is the one in the middle. A man swathed
in a kind of shroud is stretched on a bed, at the head and foot of which appear two of those
personages, half man and half fish, in which the Oannes of Berosus has been recognized (Figs.
9 and 67).[442] The figure on the bed must be that of a corpse wrapped in those linen bandages
of which so many fragments have been found in the tombs of Lower Chaldæa. The two fish-like
gods brandish something over the corpse which appears, so far as it can be made out, to be
a flower or bunch of grass. Their gesture appears to be one of benediction, like that of a
modern priest with the holy-water-sprinkler.

The lowest division is by far the most roomy of the four. It evidently represents the regions
under the earth, and both its size and the complication of its arrangements show us that it
was, in the opinion of the artist, more important than either of the three above it. The whole
of its lower part is occupied by five fishes all swimming in one direction, a conventional
symbol always employed by Assyrian artists to represent a river. The left bank is indicated
by a raised line running from one side of the plaque to the other. On this bank towards the
left of the relief there are two shrubs or reeds above which appears a group of objects whose
character is not easily made out. Are they ideographic signs or funeral offerings? The latter
more likely. At any rate we may distinguish vases, bottles, a small box or comb and especially
the foot of a horse drawn with great precision. At the other end of this division a hideous
monster advances on the river bank. Its semi-bestial, semi-human head is flat and scarred,
with a broad upturned nose and a mouth reaching to the ears. The upper part of its body is
that of a man, although its skin is seamed all over with short vertical lines meant to indicate
hairs. One arm is raised and the other lowered, like those of the genii in the second division.
His tail is upturned, his feet are those of a bird, and his wings show over his left shoulder.
On the whole, the resemblance between this figure and the nondescript beast on the obverse
of the plaque is so great that we are tempted to think that they both represent the same being.

Upon the river and in the centre of this division a scene is going forward that takes up more
than a third of the whole field. It is no doubt the main subject. A small boat glides down
the stream, its poop adorned with the head of a quadruped, its prow with that of a bird. In
this boat there is a horse, seen in profile and with its right fore leg bent at the knee. The
attitude of this animal, which seems born down by a crushing weight, is to be explained by
the rest of the composition. The poor quadruped bears on his back, in fact, the body of a gigantic
and formidable divinity, who makes use of him not in the orthodox fashion but merely as a kind
of pedestal; his or rather her right knee rests upon the horse's back while her left foot--which
is that of a bird-of-prey--grasps the animal's head. The legs of this strange monster are human,
and so is her body, but here, as in the personage walking by the river side, we find the short
scratches that denote hair; her head is that of a lioness. For although her sex may appear
doubtful to some it is difficult to explain the action of the two lion-cubs that spring towards
her breasts otherwise than by M. Clermont-Ganneau's supposition that they are eager for nourishment.

The bosom attacked by the two cubs is seen from in front, but the head above it is in profile,
and so high that it rises above the line that divides this lower division from the one immediately
above it. The jaws are open, that is to say they grin in harmony with those of the monster
looking over the top of the plaque, with the genii of the third division and that of the river
bank. All this, however, was insufficient to satisfy the artist's desire for a terror-striking
effect, and in each hand of the goddess he has placed a long serpent which hangs vertically
downwards, and shows by its curves that it is struggling in her grip. Between the limbs of
the goddess and the horse's mane there is something that bears a vague resemblance to a scorpion.

We cannot pretend to notice every detail of this curious monument as their explanation would
lead us too far, and, with all the care we could give them, we should still have to leave some
unexplained. We shall be satisfied with pointing out those features of the composition whose
meaning seems to be clear.

In the first place the division of the field into four zones should be noticed; it coincides
with what we know of the Assyrian mode of dividing the universe among the powers of heaven,
the demons, mankind, and the dead. The chief incident of the third zone shows us that, like
the Egyptians, the Assyrians wished to assure themselves of the protection of some benevolent
deity after death. In the Nile valley that protector was Osiris, in Mesopotamia Anou, Oannes,
or Dagon, the fish god to whom man owed the advantages of civilization in this world and his
safety in the next. The kingdom of shadows, into which he had to descend after death, was peopled
with monstrous shapes, to give some idea of which sculptors had gone far afield among the wild
beasts of the earth, and had brought together attributes and weapons that nature never combines
in a single animal, such as the claws of the scorpion, the wings and talons of the eagle, the
coils of the serpent, the mane and muzzle of the great carnivora. The conception which governs
all this is similar to that of which we see the expression in those Theban tombs where the
dead man prosecutes his voyage along the streams of Ament, and runs the gauntlet of the grimacing
demons who would seize and destroy him but for the shielding presence of Osiris. And the resemblance
is continued in the details. The boat is shaped like the Egyptian boats;[443] the river may
be compared to the subterranean Nile of the Theban tombs, while it reminds us of the Styx and
Acheron of the Grecian Hades. We remember too the line of the chant we have quoted:

    "There too stand the foundations of the earth, the meeting of the
          mighty waters."

Certain obscure points that still exist in connection with the Chaldæo-Assyrian inferno and
with the personages by whom it is peopled, will, no doubt, be removed as the study of the remains
progresses. We have been satisfied for the moment to explain, with the help of previous explorers,
the notions of the Semites of Mesopotamia upon death and a second life, and to show that they
did not differ sensibly from those of the Egyptians or of any other ancient people whose ideas
are sufficiently known to us.

NOTES:

[419] See Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. chapter 3.

[420] Upon the tombs found at Nimroud see LAYARD, Nineveh, vol. i. pp. 17-19 and p. 352; vol.
ii. pp. 37, 38. Some funerary urns discovered at Khorsabad are figured in BOTTA, Monument,
&c. plate 165. There is one necropolis in Assyria that, in the employment of terra-cotta coffins,
resembles the graveyards of Chaldæa; it is that of Kaleh-Shergat, which has long been under
process of rifling by the Arabs, who find cylinders, engraved stones, and jewels among its
graves. PLACE judges from the appearance of the coffins and other objects found that this necropolis
dates from the Parthian times (Ninive, vol. ii. pp. 183-185). LAYARD is of the same opinion
(Nineveh, vol. ii. pp. 58, 154, 155). Mr. Rassam found tombs at Kouyundjik, but much too late
to be Assyrian (LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, p. 198, note). Loftus found some bones in a
roughly-built vault some seventeen feet below the level of the south-eastern palace at Nimroud,
but he acknowledges he saw nothing to lead him to assign these remains to the Assyrian epoch
more than to any other (Travels and Researches, p. 198). Layard was disposed to see in the
long and narrow gallery cleared by him at Nimroud (in the middle of the staged tower that rises
at the north-western corner of the mound) a sepulchral vault in which the body of a king must
once have been deposited (Discoveries, pp. 126, 128), but he confesses that he found nothing
in it, neither human remains nor any trace of sepulchral furniture. His conjecture is therefore
entirely in the air, and he himself only puts it forth under all reserve. The difficulty of
this inquiry is increased by the fact that the people of different religions by whom the Assyrians
were succeeded always chose by preference to bury their dead at high levels. Even in our own
day it is, as a rule, upon the heights studded over the plains that Christians, Mussulmans,
and Yezidis establish their cemeteries; and these have become grave obstacles to the explorer
in consequence of the natural disinclination on the part of the peasantry to disturb what may
be the ashes of their ancestors. BENNDORF (Gesichtshelme, plate xiv. figs. 1 and 2) reproduces
two golden masks similar to those found at Mycenæ, which were found, the one at Kouyundjik,
the other at some unknown point in the same district; he mentions (pp. 66, 67) a third discovery
of the same kind. But the character of the objects found with these masks seems clearly to
show that the tombs from which they were taken were at least as late as the Seleucidæ, if not
as the Roman emperors (Cf. HOFFMANN, in the Archäologische Zeitung for 1878, pp. 25-27).

[421] When we come to speak of Chaldæan sculpture, we shall give a reproduction of this relief.
We cannot make much use of it in the present inquiry, because its meaning is so obscure. The
stone is broken, and the imperfections of the design are such that we can hardly tell what
the artist meant to represent. The two figures with baskets on their heads for instance--are
they bringing funeral offerings, or covering with earth the heaped-up corpses on which they mount?

[422] LAYARD, Monuments, 1st series, plates 14, 21, 26, 57, 64, &c.

[423] In more than one battle scene do we find these birds floating over the heads of the combatants
(LAYARD, Monuments, 1st series, plates 18, 22, 26, &c). We may also refer to the curious monument
from Tell-lôh, in which vultures carrying off human heads and limbs in the clouds are represented.
For an engraving of it see our chapter on Chaldæan sculpture.

[424] See an article published by M. J. HALÉVY in the Revue archéologique, vol. xliv. p. 44,
under the title: L'Immortalité de l'Âme chez les Peuples sémitiques.

[425] PLACE, Ninive, vol. ii. p. 184.

[426] LOFTUS, Travels and Researches, pp. 198, 199.

[427] LOFTUS especially speaks strongly upon this point (Travels, &c. p. 199). "By far the
most important of these sepulchral cities is Warka, where the enormous accumulation of human
remains proves that it was a peculiarly sacred spot, and that it was so esteemed for many centuries.
From its foundation by Urukh until finally abandoned by the Parthians--a period of probably
2,500 years--Warka appears to have been a sacred burial-place!"

[428] See the curious paper of M. E. LE BLANT entitled: Tables égyptiennes à Inscriptions grecques
(Revue archéologique, 1874).

[429] In his sixth and seventh chapters LOFTUS gives a very interesting account of his visits
to the sanctuaries of Nedjef and Kerbela.

[430] The work he alludes to as his Assurioi logoi (i. 184).

[431] HERODOTUS, i. 198.

[432] See above, pp. 158-9 and fig. 49. The details that here follow are borrowed from the
narrations of those who have explored the sepulchral mounds of lower Chaldæa. Perhaps the most
important of these relations is that of Mr. J. E. TAYLOR, to which we have already referred
so often (Notes on the Ruins of Mugheir, to which may be added his Notes on Abou-Sharein and
Tell-el-Lahm, p. 413, in the same volume of the Journal). Cf. LOFTUS's eighteenth chapter (Travels,
&c. p. 198) and the pages in LAYARD's Discoveries, from 556 to 561.

[433] "Each of the Babylonians," says HERODOTUS (i. 195), "carries a seal and a walking-stick
carved at the top into the form of an apple, a rose, a lily, an eagle, or something similar,
for it is not their habit to use a stick without an ornament."

[434] LOFTUS, Travels, p. 212.

[435] See Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. p. 145, note 3.

[437] Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i. pp. 127 et seq.

[438] M. OPPERT has translated this text in full in a work entitled: L'Immortalité de l'Âme
chez les Chaldéens (Annales de philosophie chrétienne, vol. viii. 1884), and he has reproduced
his version with a few modifications of detail in Fragments Mythologiques (Quantin, 1881, 18mo).
M. HALÉVY has given long extracts from the same document in an article in the Revue des Études
Juives (October-December, 1881), entitled: Les Inscriptions peintes de Citium, § 2; he has
returned to the same subject in an article in the Revue archéologique (July, 1882), L'Immortalité
de l'Âme chez les Peuples sémitiques. We reproduce his translation as the most recent. Herr
SCHRADER has devoted a whole book to the translation and explanation of this same myth (Die
Hoellenfahrt der Istar, Giessen, 1874).

[439] See M. CLERMONT-GANNEAU'S L'Enfer assyrien, first part (Revue archéologique vol. xxxviii.
and plate xxv.). The second article, which should have contained the explanation of this little
monument, has never appeared, to the great regret of all who appreciate the knowledge and penetration
of that learned writer at their proper value. The first article is nothing but a detailed description,
which we abridge. Certain doubts were expressed at the time of its publication as to the authenticity
of this object; nothing, however, has happened to confirm them. Both in composition and execution
it is excellent. M. Péretié, moreover, was not one to be easily deceived. M. Clermont-Ganneau
described and illustrated this bronze plate from photographs, but since his paper appeared
he has again visited the East and seen and handled the original.

[440] M. CLERMONT-GANNEAU reminds us that this peculiarity is repeated in a monster on one
of the Nimroud reliefs (see LAYARD, Monuments, series ii. plate 3).

[441] See above, p. 72, and Figs. 3, 10, 11, 12. See also the notes to M. Clermont-Ganneau's
article. He has no difficulty in showing how general was the use of these emblems.

[442] See page 65.

[443] Compare Figs. 23, 31, and especially 159 and 209 of Art in Ancient Egypt, vol. i.

§ 2.--The Chaldæan Tomb.

The principle of the Chaldæan sepulchre was similar to that of the Egyptian mastaba or hypogeum;
it had to supply the same wants and to render the same services; the task imposed upon the
architect was in each case governed by the same general idea. Why then have we found nothing
in Mesopotamia that may be compared, even at the most respectful distance, with the splendid
tomb-houses of the Theban necropolis, nor even with those of Phoenicia, Asia Minor, or Etruria?
The reason for the difference is easily told; it is to be found in the nature and configuration
of the country itself. There were no mountains in whose sides tomb-chambers could be cut, and
in the loose permeable soil of the plain it would have been practically impossible to establish
pits that should be at once spacious and durable.

We shall find, no doubt, in almost every country, sepulchres constructed above the soil like
palaces and temples. In Egypt we have already encountered the pyramid, but even there the tomb-chamber
is in most cases cut in the rock itself, and the huge mass of stone above it is nothing more
than a sort of colossal lid. Funerary architecture is not content, like that of civil or religious
buildings, to borrow its materials from the rock; it cuts and chisels the living rock itself.
In every country the first idea that seems to occur to man, when he has the mortal remains
of his own people to make away with, is to confide them to the earth. In mountainous countries
rock is everywhere near the soil and rises through it here and there, especially on the slopes
of the hills. It is as a rule both soft enough to be easily cut with a proper tool, and hard
enough, or at least sufficiently capable of hardening when exposed to the air, faithfully to
preserve any form that may be given to it. As soon as man emerged from barbarism and conceived
the desire to carry with him into the next world the goods he had enjoyed in this, the hastily
cut hole of the savage became first an ample chamber and then a collection of chambers. It
became a richly furnished habitation, a real palace. But even then the features that distinguish
a house of the living from one of the dead were carefully preserved. The largest of the tombs
in the Biban-el-Molouk is no more than the development of the primitive grave. As for those
tombs in which the sepulchral chamber is above the ground, as in the famous Mausoleum of Halicarnassus,
they are merely brilliant exceptions, embodiments of princely caprice or architectural ambition.
Funerary architecture is, in virtue of its destination, a subterranean architecture, an architecture
of the rock. The countries in which it has been managed with the greatest power and originality
are those whose soil lent itself most kindly to the work of excavation. The limestone and sandstone
chains of the Nile valley, the abrupt flanks of Persian ravines, of Cappadocian and Lycian
hillsides, and the rocky slopes of Greece and Etruria, were excellently fitted for the work
of the funerary architect.

If the civilization of the Mesopotamian Semites had originated in the country above Nineveh,
at the foot of those hills in which the Tigris has its springs, the fathers of the people would
perhaps have cut tomb chambers like those of Egypt in the soft gypsum, and, in later years,
their descendants, instead of breaking entirely with the traditions of the past would have
raised tumuli in the plains and constructed within them brick chambers to take the place of
vaults cut in the living rock. Chaldæa would then have been dotted over with sepulchral mounds
like those with which the steppes of central Russia are covered. Nothing of the kind has as
yet been discovered; none of the tells or mounds of sun-dried bricks have yet been identified
as tombs, and that is because, as we have seen, the course of civilization was from south to
north; the first impulse came from the shores of the Persian Gulf, from the people inhabiting
alluvial plains consisting merely of sand and broken stone. From the very first hour these
people had to compel clay, kneaded and dried in the sun or the brick kiln, to render the services
which are demanded from stone elsewhere. They were content therefore with entombing their dead
either in small brick vaults, under large terra-cotta covers, or in coffins of the latter material.

The tomb chamber illustrated in our Fig. 89 may be taken as a type. It is five feet high by
seven feet long, and three feet seven inches wide. The vault is closed at the top by a single
row of bricks and at each end by a double wall of the same material. There are no doors. The
tombs once shut must have been inaccessible. The structure was put together with such care
that neither dust nor water could get within it. Some of these graves, and among them this
particular one, inclosed only one skeleton. Taylor found fourteen clay vases in it, not to
mention other objects such as a walking stick, rings, cylinders, and bronze cups. Besides these
there was a gold waist-band about an inch wide, showing it to be the grave of a rich man. In
other tombs as many as three, four, and even eleven skeletons were found. In these the brick
under the head and the bronze cup in the hand were sometimes missing, but the water jars were
always there.

In other parts of the same cemetery the dead instead of being placed in a vault were laid upon
an area paved with large well burnt bricks and covered with a huge terra-cotta lid. These lids
were in several pieces, joined together with reeds soaked in bitumen. We give a section (Fig.
163) and elevation (Fig. 164) of one of these peculiar sepulchres. The whole was about seven
feet long, three high, and three wide.

The body of the lid is formed of several rings decreasing in thickness with their distance
from the ground. The top is an oval plateau divided into eight symmetrical compartments by
flat bands. The skeleton always lies on its side, generally the left, the limbs being drawn
up as shown in the engraving (163). Taylor gives a complete list of the objects found in this
tomb together with notes as to their exact position.

Sometimes the covering is more simple in construction and has a domed top (Fig. 165). Elsewhere
in the same necropolis numerous examples of a still more elementary form of burial were discovered.
The skeletons of children were found between two hollow plates, and full grown bodies in a
kind of double vase into which they could only have been thrust with some difficulty and that
after being doubled up. Still more often coffins were of the form shown in our Fig. 166. The
diameter of these cylindrical jars was about two feet. The joint between them was sealed with
bitumen. At one end there was a hole to allow the gases generated by decomposition to escape.
None of these coffins contained more than one skeleton, but narrow as they were room had been
found for the vases and dishes. These were mostly of earthenware, but a few of bronze were
also encountered. Each coffin held an arrow-head of the latter material, while the feet and
hands of the skeleton were adorned with iron rings. In several cases the remains of gold ornaments,
of sculptured ivories and engraved shells, were discovered.

Finally the fashion seems to have changed, and a more elegant form of coffin to have come into
use. It was still of terra-cotta, but its surface was covered with a rich glaze originally
blue but now mostly of a dark green. Here and there, on the parts shielded best from the atmosphere,
the blue has preserved its colour. The general shape of these coffins is that of a shoe or
slipper; the oval opening through which the body was introduced has a grooved edge for the
adjustment of the lid. The small hole for the escape of gas is at the narrow end. This type
seems to date from the last centuries of antiquity rather than from the time of the Chaldæan
Empire; its examples are found close to the surface of the cemeteries, whence we may fairly
conclude that they were the last accessions. It is still more significant that the images stamped
upon the panels with which the lids are decorated have little to remind us of the bas-reliefs
of Assyria and Chaldæa, and it is not until we turn to the medals of the Parthians and Sassanids
that we find anything to which they can be readily compared.[444]

In the cemeteries of Lower Chaldæa the various receptacles for human dust that we have described
are heaped vertically one upon another, so that with the passage of time they have formed huge
mounds covering vast spaces and rising conspicuously above the plain (see Fig. 167, letter
c). Loftus tells us that at Warka he dug trenches between thirty and forty feet deep without
reaching the lowest stratum of sepulchres. There was no apparent order in their arrangement.
Sometimes brick divisions were found for a certain length, as if used to separate the tombs
of one family from those of another. A layer of fine dust, spread evenly by the winds from
the desert, separated the coffins. Terra-cotta cones inscribed with prayers had been thrown
into the interstices. Sometimes, as at Mugheir, the mound thus formed is surmounted by a paved
platform upon which open the drains that traverse the mass.[445] In most cases these mounds
have been turned over in all their upper parts by the Arabs. It is probable that in ancient
days each of these huge cemeteries had priests and superintendents told off to watch over them,
to assign his place to each new comer, and to levy fees like those paid in our day to the mollahs
attached to the Mosques of Nedjef and Kerbela. They guarded the integrity of the mound, and
when it had reached the regulation height, caused it to be paved and finally closed.

In none of these cemeteries has any tomb been discovered that by its size, richness, or isolation,
proclaimed itself the burial place of royalty, and yet the sovereigns of Mesopotamia must have
had something analogous to the vast and magnificent sepulchres of the Egyptian kings. Their
tombs must at least have been larger and more splendid than those of private individuals. In
the case of Susiana we know that it was so through an inscription of Assurbanipal. The Assyrian
king gives a narrative of his campaign. He tells us how his soldiers penetrated into the sacred
forests and set fire to them, and then to show more clearly with how stern a vengeance he had
visited the revolted Elamites, he added: "The tombs both of their ancient and their modern
kings, of those kings who did not fear Assur and Istar, my lords, and had troubled the kings,
my fathers, I threw them down, I demolished them, I let in the light of the sun upon them,
then I carried away their corpses into Assyria. I left their shades without sepulture and deprived
them of the offerings of those who owed them libations."[446]

If the Elamite dynasty had its royal necropolis near Susa, in which funerary rites were celebrated
down to the moment of the Assyrian conquest, it could hardly have been otherwise with the powerful
and pious monarchies of Chaldæa. History has in fact preserved a few traditions of the royal
sepulchres of that country. Herodotus mentions the tomb of that Queen Nitocris to whom he attributes
so many great works;[447] it is supposed that she was an Egyptian princess and the wife of
Nabopolassar. According to the historian she caused a sepulchral chamber to be constructed
for herself in the walls of Babylon, above one of the principal gates. So far as the terms
of the inscription are concerned he may have been hoaxed by the native dragomans, but there
is nothing to rouse our scepticism in the fact of a tomb having been contrived in the thickness
of the wall. At Sinkara Loftus discovered two corbel-vaulted tombs imbedded in a mass of masonry
which had apparently served as basement to a temple rebuilt by Nebuchadnezzar.[448]

Some of the Babylonian princes, however, were buried in that part of the Chaldæan territory
that was inclosed by the Euphrates and Tigris and contained most of the cemeteries of which
we have been speaking. According to Arrian, Alexander, on his way back from Lake Pallacopas,
passed close to the tomb of one of the ancient kings, "They say," adds the historian, "that
most of the former kings of Assyria were buried among the lakes and swamps."[449]

Loftus suggests that these royal tombs should be sought at Warka, but he found no ruin to which
any such character could be certainly assigned. The only mention of a royal Assyrian tomb in
history is of a kind that tells us nothing. "Semiramis," says Diodorus, "buried Ninus within
the boundary walls of the palace, she raised a mound of extraordinary size over his tomb; Ctesias
says it was nine stades high and ten wide. The town stretching to the middle of the plain,
near the Euphrates,[450] the funerary mound was conspicuous at many stades' distance like an
acropolis; they tell me that it still exists although Nineveh was overthrown by the Medes when
they destroyed the Assyrian empire." The exaggerations in which Ctesias indulged may here be
recognized. It is impossible to take seriously statements which make the tomb of Ninus some
5,500 feet high and 6,100 in diameter. The history of Ninus and Semiramis as Ctesias tells
it, is no more than a romantic tale like those of the Shah-Nameh. All that we may surely gather
from the passage in question is that, at the time of Ctesias, and perhaps a little later, the
remains of a great staged-tower were to be seen among the ruins of Nineveh. The popular imagination
had dubbed this the tomb of Ninus, just as one of the great heaps of debris that now mark the
site is called the tomb of Jonah.

All that has hitherto been recovered in the way of Mesopotamian tomb architecture is of little
importance so far as beauty is concerned, and we may perhaps be blamed for dwelling upon these
remains at such length in a history of art. But we had our reasons for endeavouring to reunite
and interpret the scanty facts by which some light is thrown on the subject. Of all the creations
of man, his tomb is that, perhaps, which enables us to penetrate farthest into his inner self;
there is no work of his hands into which he puts more of his true soul, in which he speaks
more naively and with a more complete acknowledgment of his real beliefs and the bases of his
hopes. To pass over the Chaldæan tomb in silence because it is a mediocre work of art would
be to turn a blind eye to the whole of one side of the life of a great people, a people whose
rôle in the development of the ancient civilization was such as to demand that we should leave
no stone unturned to make ourselves masters of their every thought.

NOTES:

[444] LOFTUS, Travels, &c., pp. 203-4. The British Museum possesses several fine specimens
of these glazed-ware coffins. The details given by LOFTUS (chapter xx.), upon the necropolis
of Sinkara may be read with interest.

[445] See above, p. 158, and fig. 49.

[446] M. Stanislas GUYARD published a translation of this passage in the Journal asiatique,
for May-June, 1880, p. 514; some terms which had remained doubtful, were explained by M. AMIAUD,
in the same journal for August-September, 1881, p. 237.

[447] HERODOTUS, i. 187.

[448] LOFTUS, Travels, &c., pp. 248-9.

[449] ARRIAN, Anabasis, vii. 22.

[450] DIODORUS, ii. 7, 1-2.

In spite of all our researches we have not succeeded in finding in the whole of Mesopotamia
a real sepulchre, a tomb on which the talent of the architect has been lavished as well as
the structural skill of the builder. The Chaldæans and Assyrians made greater efforts when
they had to honour a god than when they were called upon to provide a lodging for their dead.
Of all the structures they raised, their temples seem to have been the most ambitious in height
and in grandeur of proportion though not in extent of ground covered. This the classic writers
tell us, and their assertions are confirmed in more than one particular by documents written
in the Assyrian language. We can also check their statements to some extent by the study of
the monuments themselves or rather of their somewhat scanty remains.

We shall seek in vain for ruins that may be compared to those of the Egyptian sanctuaries.
The nature of the materials employed in the valley of the Euphrates made the degradation of
a building and the obliteration of its lines far more rapid than elsewhere. And yet in many
cases the almost formless aspect of structures once so greatly admired, does not prevent those
who know how to crossexamine them from restoring many of their former arrangements; and both
in the bas-reliefs and in some very small monuments we find certain sculptured sketches that
have been recognized as representing temples.

These sketches are very imperfect and very much abridged: the ruins themselves are confused;
of the Greek and Assyrian texts some are short and vague, others excite our scepticism. Without
wishing to deny the value of the methods employed or the importance of the results obtained,
we can hardly believe that the certainty with which technical terms are translated is well
founded. There are some of these terms which if they occurred in a Greek inscription would
cause no little embarrassment by their purely special character, and that even to one who might
unite in his single person the qualifications of a Greek scholar with those of an architect
or sculptor. We hope, though we hardly expect to see our hope realized, that some day a Mesopotamian
temple may be found in good preservation. Until then we cannot give to our restorations of
such buildings anything approaching the accuracy or completeness so easily attained when the
great religious edifices of Greece or Egypt are in question. We find none of those well defined
elements, those clear and precise pieces of information which elsewhere allow us to obliterate
the injuries worked by time and human enemies. The foot of every wall is heaped about with
such formless masses of brick and brick dust, that it is almost impossible to make full explorations
or to take exact measurements. One must be content with an approximation to the truth.

With the one exception of the staged tower at Khorsabad, we shall not attempt to give a single
restoration in the proper sense of the word. Not that we mean to say that the different temple
models given in our Plates II., III., and IV., and in our Fig. 173, are creations of our fancy.
No one of the four pretends to reconstruct one famous building more than another. They are
abstract types, each representing, in its general features, one of the varieties into which
Assyro-Chaldæan temples may be divided. The arrangements in which the originality of each type
consists were only fixed by M. Chipiez after long researches. In each case he has taken for
his point of departure either a Greek or Assyrian text, a sculptured relief, or facts gleaned
by the examination of original sites; in most cases he has been able to supplement and correct
the information gained from one of these sources by that from another. He has thus entered
into the spirit of Mesopotamian architecture, and restored the chief forms it put on in its
religious buildings according to time and district. He cannot say that all the details figured
were found united, as they may be here, on a single building; but they are not inventions,
no one of them is without authority, and the use to which they are put has been decided by
the examination of actual remains. We may say the same of proportions. These are the result
of study and of the collation of one ruin and one piece of evidence with another; they have
not been taken from any single building. Finally there were certain details, such as the trace
and elevation of the ramps, that were full of difficulty. M. Chipiez arrived at the solution
finally adopted by an inductive process, by carefully weighing the obvious conditions of the
problem and choosing those arrangements by which its requirements seemed most simply and conveniently
met. In virtue of their general character M. Chipiez's restorations reach a high degree of
probability. They may be compared, if we may use the expression, to those triumphs of historical
synthesis in which no attempt is made to narrate events as they occurred and in all their details,
but in which a whole people lives, and the character of a whole century is summed up, in a
picture whose every line and colour is borrowed from reality.[451]

In spite of their apparent variety, all the buildings we shall describe in the present chapter
may be referred to a single fundamental type. They are each formed of several cubic masses
superimposed one upon another and diminishing in volume in proportion to their height in the
monument. We have already explained how such a system came to be adopted.[452] It was determined
by the limitations of the only material at the architect's disposal, and it had at least this
advantage, that it enabled him to relieve the monotony of the Chaldæan plains with artificial
mountains whose vast size and boldness of line were calculated to impress the minds of the
people, and to give them a great idea of their master's power and of the majesty of the deities
in whose honour they were raised.

Mesopotamia was covered, then, by buildings resembling a stepped pyramid in their general outlines.
We find them in the reliefs (Fig. 10), and in the oldest cities we can frequently recognize
the confused ruins of their two or three lower stories. Our only doubt is connected with the
possible use of these buildings, the zigguratts of the Assyrian texts. We shall not here stop
to recapitulate the evidence in favour of their religious character; it will suffice to quote
the description given by Herodotus of the temple of Bel or Belus at Babylon. As to whether
the ruins of that building are to be identified with Babil (Fig. 37) or the Birs-Nimroud (Fig.
168) we shall inquire presently. This is the description of Herodotus:--

"In the other (fortress) was the sacred precinct of Jupiter Belus, a square inclosure two furlongs
each way with gates of solid brass; which was also remaining in my time. The old historian
saw well, and his mind retained what he saw. From his recital it is plain that this was the
finest of the Babylonian temples, and that even when partly ruinous, under the successors of
Alexander, its colossal dimensions were yet able to astonish foreign visitors. We may, then,
take it as the type of the Chaldæan temple, as the finest religious building in the first city
of Mesopotamia. Nebuchadnezzar reconstructed it and made it higher and richer in its ornamentation
than before, but he kept to the ancient foundations and made no change in the general character
of the plan. In this single edifice were gathered up all the threads of a long tradition; it
was, as it were, the supreme effort, the last word of the national art: and Herodotus declares
plainly that it was a staged tower.

Such an assertion puts the matter beyond a doubt, and enables us to point to the staged tower
as the form chosen by these people and made use of throughout their civilization for the buildings
raised in honour of their gods. And having dismissed this fundamental question we have now
to give a rapid description of the principal varieties of the type as they have been established
by M. Chipiez. And as we go on we shall point out the authorities for each restoration; whether
the ruins themselves, the inscribed texts, or the sculptured reliefs.

In the first line we must place the RECTANGULAR CHALDÆAN TEMPLE (Plate II. and Figs. 169, 170,
and 171). We have put it first because the remains from which it has been reconstructed have
all been found in Lower Chaldæa, that is, amongst the oldest of the Chaldæan cities. As we
learn from the texts, these temples were repaired under the last kings of Babylon, and it was
their antiquity that made them dear both to the people and their kings. We may believe, therefore,
that in restoring them care was taken to preserve their ancient features. It would be the upper
part of their retaining walls that required renewal, and these would be rebuilt on their ancient
foundations. Here and there the latter exist even at the present day, and the names of the
earliest Chaldæan princes may be read upon their bricks.[454]

The remains studied by Messrs. Taylor and Loftus at Warka (Fig. 172), Abou-Sharein, and Mugheir
have furnished the chief elements for our restoration, which bears a strong resemblance to
the ruin at Warka called Bouvariia (A on the map), and one still stronger to that temple at
Mugheir whose present state is shown in our Figs. 48 and 143. This first type is characterized
by the form of its lower, and the situation of its upper, stages. The latter are not placed
in the centre of the platform on which they stand; they are thrown back much nearer to one
of the two shorter sides than to the other, so that the building has a front and a back. The
front is almost entirely taken up with wide staircases.[455] The staircase leading from the
first story to the second must alone have been concealed in the interior of the building, an
arrangement which avoided the necessity for breaking up the ample solidity of that imposing
stage (see Plate II.).

The surroundings of the temple in our plate--the background of slightly undulating plain, the
houses similar to those found by Taylor and Loftus, in which they discovered vaulted passages
traversing the thickness of the walls[456]--are, of course, purely imaginary.

The temple itself, like the palace at Khorsabad, was raised on a vast platform upon which the
city walls abutted. This platform was reached by wide flights of steps.[457] Lateral ramps
led to a second platform, inclosed on every side, with which the sacred part of the building,
the Haram, began. We have already spoken of the panelled ornament with which the great, flat
surfaces of its walls were relieved.[458] The lowest stage of the temple was provided with
buttresses like those that still exist in the temple of Mugheir (Fig. 43). A high, rectangular
plinth--decorated in our restoration with glazed faïence[459]--was interposed between the first
and second stage.[460] A rectangular chapel decorated, in all probability, with metal plaques
and glazed polychromatic bricks, crowned the whole. Traces of this chapel have been found at
Mugheir, and the wealth of its decoration is attested by many pieces of evidence.[461] At Abou-Sharein
also there are vestiges of a small and richly ornamented sanctuary crowning the second stage
of a ruin whose aspect now bears a distinct resemblance to that of the temple at Mugheir. The
triple row of crenellations we have given to this sanctuary or chapel was suggested by the
altars and obelisks (Fig. 107 and 111). Here, as at Nineveh, these battlements must have been
the one universal finish to the walls. The use to which we have put them is quite in harmony
with the spirit of Mesopotamian architecture, but there is no direct evidence of their presence
in these buildings. In this particular our restoration is conjectural.

A glance at our longitudinal section (Fig. 169) will show that we have left the main body of
this great mass of sun-dried brick absolutely solid. It was in vain that, at Mugheir, trenches
and shafts were cut through the flanks of the ruin, not a sign of any apartment or void of
the most elementary kind was found.[462]

This Mugheir temple rises hardly more than fifty feet above the level of the plain. The restoration
by M. Chipiez, for which it furnished the elements, shows a height of 135 feet; judging from
the proportions of its remains the building can hardly have been higher than that. But it is
certain that many temples reached a far greater height, otherwise their size could not have
made any great impression upon travellers who had seen the Egyptian pyramids. Even now the
Birs-Nimroud, which has been undergoing for so many centuries a continual process of diminution,
rises no less than 235 feet above the surrounding country,[463] and Strabo, the only Greek
author who says anything precise as to the height of the greatest of the Babylonian monuments,
writes thus: "This monument, which was, they say, overthrown by Xerxes, was a square pyramid
of burnt brick, one stade (606-3/4 feet) high, and one stade in diameter."[464]

The arrangement by which such a height could be most easily reached would be the superposition
of square masses one upon another, each mass being centrally placed on the upper surface of
the one below it. The weight would be more equally divided and the risks of settlement more
slight than in any other system. Of this type M. Chipiez has restored two varieties. We shall
first describe the simpler of the two, which we may call the SQUARE SINGLE-RAMPED CHALDÆAN
TEMPLE (Figs. 173, 174, 175, 176).

The principal elements for this restoration have been taken from the staged tower at Khorsabad
known as the Observatory, but M. Chipiez has expanded its dimensions until they almost reach
those ascribed to the temple of Bel by Strabo. Moreover, he had to decide a delicate question
which the discovery of the Khorsabad Observatory, where only the four lower stages remained,
had done nothing to solve, namely the plan and inclination of the ramp. In M. Thomas's restoration
of the Khorsabad tower, the last section of the ramp at the top, is parallel to that at the
bottom, and the crowning platform is not exactly upon the central axis of the building.[465]
In M. Chipiez's restoration the top platform is in the centre, like those below it, and the
upper end of his ramp is vertically over the spot where it leaves the ground. This result has
been obtained by a peculiar arrangement of the inclined plane which must have been known to
the Mesopotamian architects, seeing how great was their practice and how desirable, in their
eyes, was the symmetrical aspect which it alone could give. We have suggested the varied colours
of the different stages by changes of tone in our engraving. In spite of the words of Herodotus
M. Chipiez has only given his tower seven stages, because that number seems to have been sacred
and traditional, and Herodotus may very well have counted the plinth or the terminal chapel
in the eight mentioned in his description. Bearing in mind a passage in Diodorus--"At the summit
Semiramis placed three statues of beaten gold, Zeus, Hera, and Rhea"[466]--we have crowned
its apex with such a group. The phrase of Herodotus, "Below ... there is a second temple,"
has led us to introduce chapels contrived in the interior of the mass and opening on the ramp
at the fifth and sixth stories. There is nothing to forbid the idea that such chambers were
much more numerous than this, and opened, sometimes on one, sometimes on another, of the four
faces.

The buildings at the lower part of our engraving are imaginary, but they are by no means improbable.
Among them may be distinguished the wide flights of steps and inclined planes by which the
platform on which the temple stood was reached.[467] At the foot of the temple on the right
of the engraving there is a palace, on the left two obelisk-shaped steles and a small temple
of a type to be presently described. Behind the tower stretch away the waters of a lake. Nebuchadnezzar,
in one of his inscriptions, speaks of surrounding the temple he had built with a lake.

In seeking to vary the effect produced by these external ramps, the idea of a more complicated
arrangement than the one last noticed may have occurred to the Chaldees. This M. Chipiez has
embodied in his restoration of a SQUARE DOUBLE-RAMPED CHALDÆAN TEMPLE (Plate III. and Figs.
177, 178, and 179). As in the last model, there are seven stages, each stage being square on
plan, but the difference consists in the use of two ramps leading from base to summit. Each
of these keeps to its own side of the building, only approaching the other on the front and
back façades at the fourth, fifth, and sixth stages (see Plate III). In order that the building
as a whole should have a symmetrical and monumental appearance, it was necessary that all its
seven stages--with the exception of the first, to which a rather different rôle was assigned--should
be of equal height. But their length and width differed in proportion to their height in the
building. The continual shortening of the distance within which the incline had to be packed,
would, if we suppose each ramp confined to one side of the tower, have required the slope to
become steeper with each story. Such a want of parallelism would have been very ugly, and there
was but one means of avoiding it, and that was to continue the ramps nearly to the centre of
the front at the fourth and sixth stages, and to the centre of the posterior façade at the
fifth. The advantages of such an arrangement are obvious. Banished mostly to the flanks the
double ramp left four stages clear both at front and back, providing an ample promenade. On
the other three it showed itself just sufficiently to "furnish" the building and diversify
its aspect without in any way encumbering it. The whole structure terminated in a chapel placed
on the central axis of the tower, and surmounted by a cupola. The inscriptions mention the
dome covered with leaves of chiselled gold which crowned at Babylon that temple "to the foundations
of the earth" which was restored by Nebuchadnezzar.[468]

In these texts another sanctuary included in the same building and placed half way between
the base and summit is mentioned. This was the sepulchral chamber of Bel-Merodach in which
his oracle was consulted; in M. Chipiez's restoration the entrance to this sanctuary is placed
in the middle of the fifth story.

The vast esplanade about the base of the temple was suggested by the description of Herodotus.
It is borne by two colossal plinths flanked and retained by buttresses. In our plate the lower
of these two plinths is only hinted at in the two bottom corners. In the distance behind the
temple itself may be seen one of those embattled walls which divided Babylon into so many fortresses,
and, still farther away, another group of large buildings surrounded by a wall and the ordinary
houses of the city.

This double-ramped type is at once the most beautiful and the most workmanlike of those offered
by these staged towers. With a single ramp we get a tower whose four faces are repetitions
of each other, but here we have a true façade, on which a happy contrast is established between
the unbroken stages and those upon which the ramps appear--between oblique lines and lines
parallel with the soil. The building gains in repose and solidity, and its true scale becomes
more evident than when the eye is led insensibly from base to summit by a monotonous spiral.

We cannot positively affirm that the architects of Mesopotamia understood and made use of the
system just described; there is no positive evidence on the point.[469] It contains, however,
nothing but a logical development from the premises, nothing but what is in perfect keeping
with Mesopotamian habits, nothing that involves difficulties of execution or construction beyond
those over which we know them to have triumphed. Besides, we have proofs that they were not
content to go on servilely reproducing one and the same type for twenty centuries; their temples
were not all shaped in the same mould. The type of the Mugheir temple differed sensibly from
that of the Khorsabad Observatory. One of the Kouyundjik sculptures reveals a curious variant
of the traditional theme, so far as Assyria was concerned, in an arrangement of the staged
tower that we should never have suspected but for the survival of this relief (Fig. 34). The
picture in question is no doubt very much abridged and far from true to the proportions of
the original, but yet it has furnished M. Chipiez with the elements of a restoration in which
conjecture has had very little to say. This we have called the SQUARE ASSYRIAN TEMPLE (see
Plate IV. and Figs. 180-182).

According to the relief the tower itself rises upon a dome-shaped mound in front of which there
are a large doorway and two curved ramps. From all that we know of Assyrian buildings of this
kind we may be sure that the original of the picture was so placed. The form of the mound may
be described as reproducing the extrados of a depressed arch. This is the only form on which
flights of steps with a curve similar to that here shown could be constructed. The design of
the steps in our plate corresponds exactly to that indicated more roughly by the sculptor;
no other means of affording convenient access to the base of the tower--at least outside the
mound--could have been contrived. Two doors were pierced at the head of the steps through the
large panels with which the lower stage of the tower itself was decorated, and from that point,
so far as we can tell from the relief, the ascent was continued by means of internal staircases.
The sculptor has only shown three stages, but--unless the absence of anything above has been
caused by the mutilation of the slab--we may suppose that he has voluntarily suppressed a fourth.[470]
In any case the third story is too large to have formed the apex of the tower. The general
proportions suggest at least one more stage for the support of the usual chapel. The latter
we have restored as a timber structure covered with metal plates, skins, or coloured planks.
The three stages immediately below the chapel we have decorated with painted imitations of
panels, carried out either in fresco or glazed brick. As for the internal arrangements we know
very little. The great doorway with which the mound itself is prefaced in the relief must have
led to some apartment worthy of its size and importance; we have therefore pierced the mass
in our section with a suite of several chambers. At the second story another doorway occurs;
it is much smaller and more simple, and the chamber to which it led must have been comparatively
unimportant. In our Fig. 180 it is restored as the approach to the internal staircase.

In order to vary the framework of our restorations and to show Assyrian architecture in as
many aspects as possible, we have placed this temple within a fortified wall, like that of
Khorsabad. Within a kind of bastion towards the left of the plate we have introduced one of
those small temples of which remains have been found at Khorsabad and Nimroud. The walls of
the town form a continuation of those about the temple. In front of the principal entrance
to the sacred inclosure we have set up a commemorative stele.

       *       *       *       *       *

Aided by these restorations we hope to have given a clearer and more vivid idea of Chaldæan
art than if we had confined ourselves to describing the scanty remains of their religious buildings.
We have now to give a rapid review of those existing ruins whose former purposes and arrangements
may still to a certain extent be traced.

NOTES:

[451] These restorations of the principal types of Chaldæan temples were exhibited by M. CHIPIEZ
in the Salon of 1879, under the title Tours à Étages de la Chaldée et de l'Assyrie.

[452] Chapter II. § 2.

[453] HERODOTUS, i, 181-3, Rawlinson's version. By Jupiter, or rather Zeus, we must understand
Bel-Merodach. Diodorus calls the god of the temple Zeus Belus.

[454] LOFTUS, Travels, &c., p. 131. See also TAYLOR's papers in vol. xv. of the Royal Asiatic
Society's Journal.

[455] LOFTUS, (p. 129). "It rather struck me, however, from the gradual inclination from top
to base, that a grand staircase of the same width as the upper story, occupied this side of
the structure."

[456] LOFTUS, Travels, &c., p. 133.

[457] At Warka, around the ruin called Wuswas by the Arabs, LOFTUS traced the plan of these
great courtyards and platforms (Travels, p. 171).

[458] See above, p. 246, figs. 100 and 102.

[459] Numerous pieces of glazed tile were found in these ruins.

[460] The idea of this plinth was suggested to M. Chipiez by a remark made on page 129 of LOFTUS's
Travels: "Between the stories is a gradual stepped incline about seven feet in perpendicular
height, which may however, be accidental, and arise from the destruction of the upper part
of the lower story."

[461] See TAYLOR, Journal, &c., pp. 264-5.

[462] LOFTUS, Travels, p. 130. It was the same with the Observatory at Khorsabad.

[463] LAYARD, Discoveries, p. 495.

[464] The authorities made use of by Strabo for his description of Babylon, all lived in the
time of Alexander and his successors; no one of them could have seen the temple intact and
measured its height. Founded upon tradition or upon the inspection of the remains, the figure
given by the geographer can only be approximate. I should think it is probably an exaggeration.

[465] See PLACE, Ninive, vol. iii, plate 37.

[466] DIODORUS, ii, 9, 5.

