Then he knew that it behoved him to set some altered course of life before him. He could not
shoot his rival or knock him over the head, nor could he carry off his girl, as used to be
done in rougher times. There was nothing now for a man in such a catastrophe as this but submission.
But he might submit and shake off his burden, or submit and carry it hopelessly. He told himself
that he would do the latter. She had been his goddess, and he would not now worship at another
shrine. And then ideas came into his head,--not hopes, or purposes, or a belief even in any
possibility,--but vague ideas, mere castles in the air, that a time might come in which it
might be in his power to serve her, and to prove to her beyond doubting what had been the nature
of his love. Like others of his family, he thought ill of Lopez, believing the man to be an
adventurer, one who would too probably fall into misfortune, however high he might now seem
to hold his head. He was certainly a man not standing on the solid basis of land, or of Three
per Cents,--those solidities to which such as the Whartons and Fletchers are wont to trust.
No doubt, should there be such fall, the man's wife would have other help than that of her
rejected lover. She had a father, brother, and cousins, who would also be there to aid her.
The idea was, therefore, but a castle in the air. And yet it was dear to him. At any rate he
resolved that he would live for it, and that the woman should still be his goddess, though
she was the wife of another man, and might now perhaps never even be seen by him. Then there
came upon him, immediately almost after her marriage, the necessity of writing to her. The
task was one which, of course, he did not perform lightly.

He never said a word of this to anybody else;--but his brother understood it all, and in a
somewhat silent fashion fully sympathised with him. John could not talk to him about love,
or mark passages of poetry for him to read, or deal with him at all romantically; but he could
take care that his brother had the best horses to ride, and the warmest corner out shooting,
and that everything in the house should be done for his brother's comfort. As the squire looked
and spoke at Longbarns, others looked and spoke,--so that everybody knew that Mr. Arthur was
to be contradicted in nothing. Had he, just at this period, ordered a tree in the park to be
cut down, it would, I think, have been cut down, without reference to the master! But, perhaps,
John's power was most felt in the way in which he repressed the expressions of his mother's
high indignation. "Mean slut!" she once said, speaking of Emily in her eldest son's hearing.
For the girl, to her thinking, had been mean and had been a slut. She had not known,--so Mrs.
Fletcher thought,--what birth and blood required of her.

"Mother," John Fletcher had said, "you would break Arthur's heart if he heard you speak in
that way, and I am sure you would drive him from Longbarns. Keep it to yourself." The old woman
had shaken her head angrily, but she had endeavoured to do as she had been bid.

"Isn't your brother riding that horse a little rashly?" Reginald Cotgrave said to John Fletcher
in the hunting field one day.

"I didn't observe," said John; "but whatever horse he's on, he always rides rashly." Arthur
was mounted on a long, raking thorough-bred black animal, which he had bought himself about
a month ago, and which, having been run at steeplechases, rushed at every fence as though he
were going to swallow it. His brother had begged him to put some rough-rider up till the horse
could be got to go quietly, but Arthur had persevered. And during the whole of this day the
squire had been in a tremor, lest there should be some accident.

"He used to have a little more judgment, I think," said Cotgrave. "He went at that double just
now as hard as the brute could tear. If the horse hadn't done it all, where would he have been?"

"In the further ditch, I suppose. But you see the horse did do it all."

This was all very well as an answer to Reginald Cotgrave,--to whom it was not necessary that
Fletcher should explain the circumstances. But the squire had known as well as Cotgrave that
his brother had been riding rashly, and he had understood the reason why. "I don't think a
man ought to break his neck," he said, "because he can't get everything that he wishes." The
two brothers were standing then together before the fire in the squire's own room, having just
come in from hunting.

"Who is going to break his neck?"

"They tell me that you tried to to-day."

"Because I was riding a pulling horse. I'll back him to be the biggest leaper and the quickest
horse in Herefordshire."

"I dare say,--though for the matter of that the chances are very much against it. But a man
shouldn't ride so as to have those things said of him."

"What is a fellow to do if he can't hold a horse?"

"Get off him."

"That's nonsense, John!"

"No, it's not. You know what I mean very well. If I were to lose half my property to-morrow,
don't you think it would cut me up a good deal?"

"It would me, I know."

"But what would you think of me if I howled about it?"

"Do I howl?" asked Arthur angrily.

"Every man howls who is driven out of his ordinary course by any trouble. A man howls if he
goes about frowning always."

"Do I frown?"

"Or laughing."

"Do I laugh?"

"Or galloping over the country like a mad devil who wants to get rid of his debts by breaking
his neck. Æquam memento--. You remember all that, don't you?"

"I remember it; but it isn't so easy to do it."

"Try. There are other things to be done in life except getting married. You are going into
Parliament."

"I don't know that."

"Gresham tells me there isn't a doubt about it. Think of that. Fix your mind upon it. Don't
take it only as an accident, but as the thing you're to live for. If you'll do that,--if you'll
so manage that there shall be something to be done in Parliament which only you can do, you
won't ride a runaway horse as you did that brute to-day." Arthur looked up into his brother's
face almost weeping. "We expect much of you, you know. I'm not a man to do anything except
be a good steward for the family property, and keep the old house from falling down. You're
a clever fellow,--so that between us, if we both do our duty, the Fletchers may still thrive
in the land. My house shall be your house, and my wife your wife, and my children your children.
And then the honour you win shall be my honour. Hold up your head,--and sell that beast." Arthur
Fletcher squeezed his brother's hand and went away to dress.

CHAPTER XXXIV

The Silverbridge Election

About a month after this affair with the runaway horse Arthur Fletcher went to Greshamsbury,
preparatory to his final sojourn at Silverbridge for the week previous to his election. Greshamsbury,
the seat of Francis Gresham, Esq., who was a great man in these parts, was about twenty miles
from Silverbridge, and the tedious work of canvassing the electors could not therefore be done
from thence;--but he spent a couple of pleasant days with his old friend, and learned what
was being said and what was being done in and about the borough. Mr. Gresham was a man, not
as yet quite forty years of age, very popular, with a large family, of great wealth, and master
of the county hounds. His father had been an embarrassed man, with a large estate; but this
Gresham had married a lady with immense wealth, and had prospered in the world. He was not
an active politician. He did not himself care for Parliament, or for the good things which
political power can give, and was on this account averse to the Coalition. He thought that
Sir Orlando Drought and the others were touching pitch and had defiled themselves. But he was
conscious that in so thinking he was one of but a small minority; and, bad as the world around
him certainly was, terrible as had been the fall of the glory of old England, he was nevertheless
content to live without loud grumbling as long as the farmers paid him their rent, and the
labourers in his part of the country did not strike for wages, and the land when sold would
fetch thirty years' purchase. He had not therefore been careful to ascertain that Arthur Fletcher
would pledge himself to oppose the Coalition before he proffered his assistance in this matter
of the borough. It would not be easy to find such a candidate, or perhaps possible to bring
him in when found. The Fletchers had always been good Conservatives, and were proper people
to be in Parliament. A Conservative in Parliament is, of course, obliged to promote a great
many things which he does not really approve. Mr. Gresham quite understood that. You can't
have tests and qualifications, rotten boroughs and the divine right of kings, back again. But
as the glorious institutions of the country are made to perish, one after the other, it is
better that they should receive the coup de grâce tenderly from loving hands than be roughly
throttled by Radicals. Mr. Gresham would thank his stars that he could still preserve foxes
down in his own country, instead of doing any of this dirty work,--for let the best be made
of such work, still it was dirty,--and was willing, now as always, to give his assistance,
and if necessary to spend a little money, to put a Fletcher into Parliament and to keep a Lopez
out.

There was to be a third candidate. That was the first news that Fletcher heard. "It will do
us all the good in the world," said Mr. Gresham. "The Rads in the borough are not satisfied
with Mr. Lopez. They say they don't know him. As long as a certain set could make it be believed
that he was the Duke's nominee they were content to accept him;--even though he was not proposed
directly by the Duke's people in the usual way. But the Duke has made himself understood at
last. You have seen the Duke's letter?" Arthur had not seen the Duke's letter, which had only
been published in the "Silverbridge Gazette" of that week, and he now read it, sitting in Mr.
Gresham's magistrate's-room, as a certain chamber in the house had been called since the days
of the present squire's great-grandfather.

The Duke's letter was addressed to his recognised man of business in those parts, and was as
follows:--

   Carlton Terrace, -- March, 187--.

   MY DEAR MR. MORETON, [Mr. Moreton was the successor of one
   Mr. Fothergill, who had reigned supreme in those parts
   under the old Duke.]

   I am afraid that my wishes with regard to the borough and
   the forthcoming election there of a member of Parliament
   are not yet clearly understood, although I endeavoured to
   declare them when I was at Gatherum Castle. I trust that
   no elector will vote for this or that gentleman with an
   idea that the return of any special candidate will please
   me. The ballot will of course prevent me or any other man
   from knowing how an elector may vote;--but I beg to assure
   the electors generally that should they think fit to
   return a member pledged to oppose the Government of which
   I form a part, it would not in any way change my cordial
   feelings towards the town. I may perhaps be allowed to add
   that, in my opinion, no elector can do his duty except by
   voting for the candidate whom he thinks best qualified to
   serve the country. In regard to the gentlemen who are now
   before the constituency, I have no feeling for one rather
   than for the other; and had I any such feeling I should
   not wish it to actuate the vote of a single elector. I
   should be glad if this letter could be published so as to
   be brought under the eyes of the electors generally.

   Yours faithfully,

   OMNIUM.

When the Duke said that he feared that his wishes were not understood, and spoke of the inefficacy
of his former declaration, he was alluding of course to the Duchess and to Mr. Sprugeon. Mr.
Sprugeon guessed that it might be so, and, still wishing to have the Duchess for his good friend,
was at once assiduous in explaining to his friends in the borough that even this letter did
not mean anything. A Prime Minister was bound to say that kind of thing! But the borough, if
it wished to please the Duke, must return Lopez in spite of the Duke's letter. Such was Mr.
Sprugeon's doctrine. But he did not carry Mr. Sprout with him. Mr. Sprout at once saw his opportunity,
and suggested to Mr. Du Boung, the local brewer, that he should come forward. Du Boung was
a man rapidly growing into provincial eminence, and jumped at the offer. Consequently there
were three candidates. Du Boung came forward as a Conservative prepared to give a cautious,
but very cautious, support to the Coalition. Mr. Du Boung, in his printed address, said very
sweet things of the Duke generally. The borough was blessed by the vicinity of the Duke. But,
looking at the present perhaps unprecedented crisis in affairs, Mr. Du Boung was prepared to
give no more than a very cautious support to the Duke's Government. Arthur Fletcher read Mr.
Du Boung's address immediately after the Duke's letter.

"The more the merrier," said Arthur.

"Just so. Du Boung will not rob you of a vote, but he will cut the ground altogether from under
the other man's feet. You see that as far as actual political programme goes there isn't much
to choose between any of you. You are all Government men."

"With a difference."

"One man in these days is so like another," continued Gresham sarcastically, "that it requires
good eyes to see the shades of the colours."

"Then you'd better support Du Boung," said Arthur.

"I think you've just a turn in your favour. Besides, I couldn't really carry a vote myself.
As for Du Boung, I'd sooner have him than a foreign cad like Lopez." Then Arthur Fletcher frowned
and Mr. Gresham became confused, remembering the catastrophe about the young lady whose story
he had heard. "Du Boung used to be plain English as Bung before he got rich and made his name
beautiful," continued Gresham, "but I suppose Mr. Lopez does come of foreign extraction."

"I don't know what he comes from," said Arthur moodily. "They tell me he's a gentleman. However,
as we are to have a contest, I hope he mayn't win."

"Of course you do. And he shan't win. Nor shall the great Du Boung. You shall win, and become
Prime Minister, and make me a peer. Would you like papa to be Lord Greshamsbury?" he said to
a little girl, who then rushed into the room.

"No, I wouldn't. I'd like papa to give me the pony which the man wants to sell out in the yard."

"She's quite right, Fletcher," said the squire. "I'm much more likely to be able to buy them
ponies as simple Frank Gresham than I should be if I had a lord's coronet to pay for."

This was on a Saturday, and on the following Monday Mr. Gresham drove the candidate over to
Silverbridge and started him on his work of canvassing. Mr. Du Boung had been busy ever since
Mr. Sprout's brilliant suggestion had been made, and Lopez had been in the field even before
him. Each one of the candidates called at the house of every elector in the borough,--and every
man in the borough was an elector. When they had been at work for four or five days each candidate
assured the borough that he had already received promises of votes sufficient to insure his
success, and each candidate was as anxious as ever,--nay, was more rabidly anxious than ever,--to
secure the promise of a single vote. Hints were made by honest citizens of the pleasure they
would have in supporting this or that gentleman,--for the honest citizens assured one gentleman
after the other of the satisfaction they had in seeing so all-sufficient a candidate in the
borough,--if the smallest pecuniary help were given them, even a day's pay, so that their poor
children might not be injured by their going to the poll. But the candidates and their agents
were stern in their replies to such temptations. "That's a dodge of that rascal Sprout," said
Sprugeon to Mr. Lopez. "That's one of Sprout's men. If he could get half-a-crown from you it
would be all up with us." But though Sprugeon called Sprout a rascal, he laid the same bait
both for Du Boung and for Fletcher;--but laid it in vain. Everybody said that it was a very
clean election. "A brewer standing, and devil a glass of beer!" said one old elector who had
remembered better things when the borough never heard of a contest.

On the third day of his canvass Arthur Fletcher with his gang of agents and followers behind
him met Lopez with his gang in the street. It was probable that they would so meet, and Fletcher
had resolved what he would do when such a meeting took place. He walked up to Lopez, and with
a kindly smile offered his hand. The two men, though they had never been intimate, had known
each other, and Fletcher was determined to show that he would not quarrel with a man because
that man had been his favoured rival. In comparison with that other matter this affair of the
candidature was of course trivial. But Lopez who had, as the reader may remember, made some
threat about a horsewhip, had come to a resolution of a very different nature. He put his arms
a-kimbo, resting his hands on his hips, and altogether declined the proffered civility. "You
had better walk on," he said, and then stood, scowling, on the spot till the other should pass
by. Fletcher looked at him for a moment, then bowed and passed on. At least a dozen men saw
what had taken place, and were aware that Mr. Lopez had expressed his determination to quarrel
personally with Mr. Fletcher, in opposition to Mr. Fletcher's expressed wish for amity. And
before they had gone to bed that night all the dozen knew the reason why. Of course there was
some one then at Silverbridge clever enough to find out that Arthur Fletcher had been in love
with Miss Wharton, but that Miss Wharton had lately been married to Mr. Lopez. No doubt the
incident added a pleasurable emotion to the excitement caused by the election at Silverbridge
generally. A personal quarrel is attractive everywhere. The expectation of such an occurrence
will bring together the whole House of Commons. And of course this quarrel was very attractive
in Silverbridge. There were some Fletcherites and Lopezites in the quarrel; as there were also
Du Boungites, who maintained that when gentlemen could not canvass without quarrelling in the
streets they were manifestly unfit to represent such a borough as Silverbridge in Parliament;--and
that therefore Mr. Du Boung should be returned.

Mr. Gresham was in the town that day, though not till after the occurrence, and Fletcher could
not avoid speaking of it. "The man must be a cur," said Gresham.

"It would make no difference in the world to me," said Arthur, struggling hard to prevent signs
of emotion from showing themselves in his face, "were it not that he has married a lady whom
I have long known and whom I greatly esteem." He felt that he could hardly avoid all mention
of the marriage, and yet was determined that he would say no word that his brother would call
"howling."

"There has been no previous quarrel, or offence?" asked Gresham.

"None in the least." When Arthur so spoke he forgot altogether the letter he had written; nor,
had he then remembered it, would he have thought it possible that that letter should have given
offence. He had been the sufferer, not Lopez. This man had robbed him of his happiness; and,
though it would have been foolish in him to make a quarrel for a grievance such as that, there
might have been some excuse had he done so. It had taken him some time to perceive that greatly
as this man had injured him, there had been no injustice done to him, and that therefore there
should be no complaint made by him. But that this other man should complain was to him unintelligible.

"He is not worth your notice," said Mr. Gresham. "He is simply not a gentleman, and does not
know how to behave himself. I am very sorry for the young lady;--that's all." At this allusion
to Emily Arthur felt that his face became red with the rising blood; and he felt also that
his friend should not have spoken thus openly,--thus irreverently,--on so sacred a subject.
But at the moment he said nothing further. As far as his canvass was concerned it had been
successful, and he was beginning to feel sure that he would be the new member. He endeavoured
therefore to drown his sorrow in this coming triumph.

But Lopez had been by no means gratified with his canvass or with the conduct of the borough
generally. He had already begun to feel that the Duchess and Mr. Sprugeon and the borough had
thrown him over shamefully. Immediately on his arrival in Silverbridge a local attorney had
with the blandest possible smile asked him for a cheque for £500. Of course there must be money
spent at once, and of course the money must come out of the candidate's pocket. He had known
all this beforehand, and yet the demand for the money had come upon him as an injury. He gave
the cheque, but showed clearly by his manner that he resented the application. This did not
tend to bind to him more closely the services of those who were present when the demand was
made. And then, as he began his canvass, he found that he could not conjure at all with the
name of the Duke, or even with that of the Duchess; and was told on the second day by Mr. Sprugeon
himself that he had better fight the battle "on his own hook." Now his own hook in Silverbridge
was certainly not a strong hook. Mr. Sprugeon was still of opinion that a good deal might be
done by judicious manipulation, and went so far as to suggest that another cheque for £500
in the hands of Mr. Wise, the lawyer, would be effective. But Lopez did not give the other
cheque, and Sprugeon whispered to him that the Duke had been too many for the Duchess. Still
he had persevered, and a set of understrappers around him, who would make nothing out of the
election without his candidature, assured him from time to time that he would even yet come
out all right at the ballot. With such a hope still existing he had not scrupled to affirm
in his speeches that the success of his canvass had been complete. But, on the morning of the
day on which he met Fletcher in the street, Mr. Du Boung had called upon him accompanied by
two of the Du Boung agents and by Mr. Sprugeon himself,--and had suggested that he, Lopez,
should withdraw from the contest, so that Du Boung might be returned, and that the "Liberal
interests" of the borough might not be sacrificed.

This was a heavy blow, and one which Ferdinand Lopez was not the man to bear with equanimity.
From the moment in which the Duchess had mentioned the borough to him, he had regarded the
thing as certain. After a while he had understood that his return must be accompanied by more
trouble and greater expense than he had at first anticipated;--but still he had thought that
it was all but sure. He had altogether misunderstood the nature of the influence exercised
by the Duchess, and the nature also of the Duke's resolution. Mr. Sprugeon had of course wished
to have a candidate, and had allured him. Perhaps he had in some degree been ill-treated by
the borough. But he was a man whom the feeling of injustice to himself would drive almost to
frenzy, though he never measured the amount of his own injustice to others. When the proposition
was made to him, he scowled at them all, and declared that he would fight the borough to the
last. "Then you'll let Mr. Fletcher in to a certainty," said Mr. Sprout. Now there was an idea
in the borough that, although all the candidates were ready to support the Duke's government,
Mr. Du Boung and Mr. Lopez were the two Liberals. Mr. Du Boung was sitting in the room when
the appeal was made, and declared that he feared that such would be the result. "I'll tell
you what I'll do," said Lopez; "I'll toss up which of us retires." Mr. Sprout, on behalf of
Mr. Du Boung, protested against that proposition. Mr. Du Boung, who was a gentleman of great
local influence, was in possession of four-fifths of the Liberal interests of the borough.
Even were he to retire Mr. Lopez could not get in. Mr. Sprout declared that this was known
to all the borough at large. He, Sprout, was sorry that a gentleman like Mr. Lopez should have
been brought down there under false ideas. He had all through told Mr. Sprugeon that the Duke
had been in earnest, but Mr. Sprugeon had not comprehended the position. It had been a pity.
But anybody who understood the borough could see with one eye that Mr. Lopez had not a chance.
If Mr. Lopez would retire Mr. Du Boung would no doubt be returned. If Mr. Lopez went to the
poll, Mr. Fletcher would probably be the new member. This was the picture as it was painted
by Mr. Sprout,--who had, even then, heard something of the loves of the two candidates, and
who had thought that Lopez would be glad to injure Arthur Fletcher's chances of success. So
far he was not wrong;--but the sense of the injury done to himself oppressed Lopez so much
that he could not guide himself by reason. The idea of retiring was very painful to him, and
he did not believe these men. He thought it to be quite possible that they were there to facilitate
the return of Arthur Fletcher. He had never even heard of Du Boung till he had come to Silverbridge
two or three days ago. He still could not believe that Du Boung would be returned. He thought
over it all for a moment, and then he gave his answer. "I've been brought down here to fight,
and I'll fight it to the last," he said. "Then you'll hand over the borough to Mr. Fletcher,"
said Sprout, getting up and ushering Mr. Du Boung out of the room.

It was after that, but on the same day, that Lopez and Fletcher met each other in the street.
The affair did not take a minute, and then they parted, each on his own way. In the course
of that evening Mr. Sprugeon told his candidate that he, Sprugeon, could not concern himself
any further in that election. He was very sorry for what had occurred;--very sorry indeed.
It was no doubt a pity that the Duke had been so firm. "But,"--and Mr. Sprugeon shrugged his
shoulders as he spoke,--"when a nobleman like the Duke chooses to have a way of his own, he
must have it." Mr. Sprugeon went on to declare that any further candidature would be waste
of money, waste of time, and waste of energy, and then signified his intention of retiring,
as far as this election went, into private life. When asked, he acknowledged that they who
had been acting with him had come to the same resolve. Mr. Lopez had in fact come there as
the Duke's nominee, and as the Duke had no nominee, Mr. Lopez was in fact "nowhere."

"I don't suppose that any man was ever so treated before, since members were first returned
to Parliament," said Lopez.

"Well, sir;--yes, sir; it is a little hard. But, you see, sir, her Grace meant the best. Her
Grace did mean the best, no doubt. It may be, sir, there was a little misunderstanding;--a
little misunderstanding at the Castle, sir." Then Mr. Sprugeon retired, and Lopez understood
that he was to see nothing more of the ironmonger.

Of course there was nothing for him now but to retire;--to shake the dust off his feet and
get out of Silverbridge as quickly as he could. But his friends had all deserted him and he
did not know how to retire. He had paid £500, and he had a strong opinion that a portion at
least of the money should be returned to him. He had a keen sense of ill-usage, and at the
same time a feeling that he ought not to run out of the borough like a whipt dog, without showing
his face to any one. But his strongest sensation at this moment was one of hatred against Arthur
Fletcher. He was sure that Arthur Fletcher would be the new member. He did not put the least
trust in Mr. Du Boung. He had taught himself really to think that Fletcher had insulted him
by writing to his wife, and that a further insult had been offered to him by that meeting in
the street. He had told his wife that he would ask Fletcher to give up the borough, and that
he would make that request with a horsewhip in his hand. It was too late now to say anything
of the borough, but it might not be too late for the horsewhip. He had a great desire to make
good that threat as far as the horsewhip was concerned,--having an idea that he would thus
lower Fletcher in his wife's eyes. It was not that he was jealous,--not jealous according to
the ordinary meaning of the word. His wife's love to himself had been too recently given and
too warmly maintained for such a feeling as that. But there was a rancorous hatred in his heart
against the man, and a conviction that his wife at any rate esteemed the man whom he hated.
And then would he not make his retreat from the borough with more honour if before he left
he could horsewhip his successful antagonist? We, who know the feeling of Englishmen generally
better than Mr. Lopez did, would say--certainly not. We would think that such an incident would
by no means redound to the credit of Mr. Lopez. And he himself, probably, at cooler moments,
would have seen the folly of such an idea. But anger about the borough had driven him mad,
and now in his wretchedness the suggestion had for him a certain charm. The man had outraged
all propriety by writing to his wife. Of course he would be justified in horsewhipping him.
But there were difficulties. A man is not horsewhipped simply because you wish to horsewhip him.

In the evening, as he was sitting alone, he got a note from Mr. Sprugeon. "Mr. Sprugeon's compliments.
Doesn't Mr. Lopez think an address to the electors should appear in to-morrow's 'Gazette,'--very
short and easy;--something like the following." Then Mr. Sprugeon added a very "short and easy
letter" to the electors of the borough of Silverbridge, in which Mr. Lopez was supposed to
tell them that although his canvass promised to him every success, he felt that he owed it
to the borough to retire, lest he should injure the borough by splitting the Liberal interest
with their much respected fellow-townsman, Mr. Du Boung. In the course of the evening he did
copy that letter, and sent it out to the newspaper office. He must retire, and it was better
for him that he should retire after some recognised fashion. But he wrote another letter also,
and sent it over to the opposition hotel. The other letter was as follows:--

   SIR,--

   Before this election began you were guilty of gross
   impertinence in writing a letter to my wife,--to her
   extreme annoyance and to my most justifiable anger. Any
   gentleman would think that the treatment you had already
   received at her hands would have served to save her from
   such insult, but there are men who will never take a
   lesson without a beating. And now, since you have been
   here, you have presumed to offer to shake hands with me in
   the street, though you ought to have known that I should
   not choose to meet you on friendly terms after what has
   taken place. I now write to tell you that I shall carry a
   horsewhip while I am here, and that if I meet you in the
   streets again before I leave the town I shall use it.

   FERDINAND LOPEZ.

   Mr. Arthur Fletcher.

This letter he sent at once to his enemy, and then sat late into the night thinking of his
threat and of the manner in which he would follow it up. If he could only get one fair blow
at Fletcher his purpose, he thought, would be achieved. In any matter of horsewhipping the
truth hardly ever gets itself correctly known. The man who has given the first blow is generally
supposed to have thrashed the other. What might follow, though it might be inconvenient, must
be borne. The man had insulted him by writing to his wife, and the sympathies of the world,
he thought, would be with him. To give him his due, it must be owned that he had no personal
fear as to the encounter.

That night Arthur Fletcher had gone over to Greshamsbury, and on the following morning he returned
with Mr. Gresham. "For heaven's sake, look at that!" he said, handing the letter to his friend.

"Did you ever write to his wife?" asked Gresham, when he read it.

"Yes;--I did. All this is dreadful to me;--dreadful. Well;--you know how it used to be with
me. I need not go into all that; need I?"

"Don't say a word more than you think necessary."

"When you asked me to stand for the place I had not heard that he thought of being a candidate.
I wrote and told her so, and told her also that had I known it before I would not have come here."

"I don't quite see that," said Gresham.

"Perhaps not;--perhaps I was a fool. But we needn't go into that. At any rate there was no
insult to him. I wrote in the simplest language."

"Looking at it all round I think you had better not have written."

"You wouldn't say so if you saw the letter. I'm sure you wouldn't. I had known her all my life.
My brother is married to her cousin. Oh heavens! we had been all but engaged. I would have
done anything for her. Was it not natural that I should tell her? As far as the language was
concerned the letter was one to be read at Charing Cross."

"He says that she was annoyed and insulted."

"Impossible! It was a letter that any man might have written to any woman."

"Well;--you have got to take care of yourself at any rate. What will you do?"

"What ought I to do?"

"Go to the police." Mr. Gresham had himself once, when young, thrashed a man who had offended
him and had then thought himself much aggrieved because the police had been called in. But
that had been twenty years ago, and Mr. Gresham's opinions had been matured and, perhaps, corrected
by age.

"No; I won't do that," said Arthur Fletcher.

"That's what you ought to do."

"I couldn't do that."

"Then take no notice of the letter and carry a fairly big stick. It should be big enough to
hurt him a good deal, but not to do him any serious damage." At that moment an agent came in
with news of the man's retirement from the contest. "Has he left the town?" asked Gresham.
No;--he had not left the town, nor had he been seen by any one that morning. "You had better
let me go out and get the stick, before you show yourself," said Gresham. And so the stick
was selected.

As the two walked down the street together, almost the first thing they saw was Lopez standing
at his hotel door with a cutting whip in his hand. He was at that moment quite alone, but on
the opposite side of the street there was a policeman,--one of the borough constables,--very
slowly making his way along the pavement. His movement, indeed, was so slow that any one watching
him would have come to the conclusion that that particular part of the High Street had some
attraction for him at that special moment. Alas, alas! How age will alter the spirit of a man!
Twenty years since Frank Gresham would have thought any one to be a mean miscreant who would
have interposed a policeman between him and his foe. But it is to be feared that while selecting
that stick he had said a word which was causing the constable to loiter on the pavement!

But Gresham turned no eye to the policeman as he walked on with his friend, and Fletcher did
not see the man. "What an ass he is!" said Fletcher,--as he got the handle of the stick well
into his hand. Then Lopez advanced to them with his whip raised; but as he did so the policeman
came across the street quickly, but very quietly, and stood right before him. The man was so
thoroughly in the way of the aggrieved wretch that it was out of the question that he should
touch Fletcher with his whip.

"Do you usually walk about attended by a policeman?" said Lopez, with all the scorn which he
knew how to throw into his voice.

"I didn't know that the man was here," said Fletcher.

"You may tell that to the marines. All the borough shall know what a coward you are." Then
he turned round and addressed the street, but still under the shadow, as it were, of the policeman's
helmet. "This man who presumes to offer himself as a candidate to represent Silverbridge in
Parliament has insulted my wife. And now, because he fears that I shall horsewhip him, he goes
about the street under the care of a policeman."

"This is intolerable," said Fletcher, turning to his friend.

"Mr. Lopez," said Gresham. "I am sorry to say that I must give you in charge;--unless you will
undertake to leave the town without interfering further with Mr. Fletcher either by word or deed."

"I will undertake nothing," said Lopez. "The man has insulted my wife, and is a coward."

About two o'clock on the afternoon of that day Mr. Lopez appeared before the Silverbridge bench
of magistrates, and was there sworn to keep the peace to Mr. Fletcher for the next six months.
After that he was allowed to leave the town, and was back in London, with his wife in Belgrave
Mansions, to dinner that evening.

On the day but one after this the ballot was taken, and at eight o'clock on the evening of
that day Arthur Fletcher was declared to be duly elected. But Mr. Du Boung ran him very hard.

The numbers were--

   FLETCHER 315

   DU BOUNG 308

Mr. Du Boung's friends during these two last days had not hesitated to make what use they could
on behalf of their own candidate of the Lopez and Fletcher quarrel. If Mr. Fletcher had insulted
the other man's wife, surely he could not be a proper member for Silverbridge. And then the
row was declared to have been altogether discreditable. Two strangers had come into this peaceful
town and had absolutely quarrelled with sticks and whips in the street, calling each other
opprobrious names. Would it not be better that they should elect their own respectable townsman?
All this was nearly effective. But, in spite of all, Arthur Fletcher was at last returned.

CHAPTER XXXV

Lopez Back in London

