     EXPRESSION: Compare this poem with the one which precedes it.
     Compare them both with Tennyson's "Song of the Brook" ("Fifth
     Reader," p. 249). Which is the most musical? Which is the best
     simply as a description?

     Make a list of the unusual words in this last poem, and refer to
     the dictionary for their meaning. In what state is the
     Chattahoochee River? "Habersham" and "Hall" are the names of two
     counties in the same state.

     If you have access to a library, find Southey's poem, "The Cataract
     of Lodore," and read it aloud.

WAR AND PEACE

I. WAR AS THE MOTHER OF VALOR AND CIVILIZATION[14]

We still hear war extolled at times as the mother of valor and the prime agency in the world's
advancement. By it, we are told, civilization has spread and nations have been created, slavery
has been abolished and the American Union preserved. It is even held that without war human
progress would have been impossible.

The answer: Men were at first savages who preyed upon each other like wild beasts, and so they
developed a physical courage which they shared with the brutes. Moral courage was unknown to
them. War was almost their sole occupation. Peace existed only for short periods that tribes
might regain strength to resume the sacred duty of killing each other.

Advancement in civilization was impossible while war reigned. Only as wars became less frequent
and long intervals of peace supervened could civilization, the mother of true heroism, take
root. Civilization has advanced just as war has receded, until in our day peace has become
the rule and war the exception.

Arbitration of international disputes grows more and more in favor. Successive generations
of men now live and die without seeing war; and instead of the army and navy furnishing the
only careers worthy of gentlemen, it is with difficulty that civilized nations can to-day obtain
a sufficient supply of either officers or men.

In the past, man's only method for removing obstacles and attaining desired ends was to use
brute courage. The advance of civilization has developed moral courage. We use more beneficent
means than men did of old. Britain in the eighteenth century used force to prevent American
independence. In more recent times she graciously grants Canada the rights denied America.

The United States also receives an award of the powers against China, and, finding it in excess
of her expenditures, in the spirit of newer time, returns ten million dollars. Won by this
act of justice, China devotes the sum to the education of Chinese students in the republic's
universities. The greatest force is no longer that of brutal war, but the supreme force of
gentlemen and generosity--the golden rule.

The pen is rapidly superseding the sword. Arbitration is banishing war. More than five hundred
international disputes have already been peacefully settled. Civilization, not barbarism, is
the mother of true heroism.

On the field of carnage men lose all human instincts in the struggle to protect themselves.
The true heroism inspired by moral courage prompts firemen, policemen, sailors, miners, and
others to volunteer and risk their lives to save the lives of their fellowmen. Such heroism
is now of everyday occurrence.

In our age there is no more reason for permitting war between civilized nations than for relaxing
the reign of law within nations, which compels men to submit their personal disputes to peaceful
courts, and never dreams that by so doing they will be made less heroic....

When war ceases, the sense of human brotherhood will be strengthened and "heroism" will no
longer mean to kill, but only to serve or save our fellows.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 14: By Andrew Carnegie, a Scottish-American manufacturer and philanthropist (1837- ).]

II. FRIENDSHIP AMONG NATIONS[15]

Let us suppose that four centuries ago some far-seeing prophet dared to predict to the duchies
composing the kingdom of France that the day would come when they would no longer make war
upon each other. Let us suppose him saying:--

"You will have many disputes to settle, interests to contend for, difficulties to resolve;
but do you know what you will select instead of armed men, instead of cavalry, and infantry,
of cannon, lances, pikes, and swords?

"You will select, instead of all this destructive array, a small box of wood, which you will
term a ballot-box, and from what shall issue--what? An assembly--an assembly in which you shall
all live; an assembly which shall be, as it were, the soul of all; a supreme and popular council,
which shall decide, judge, resolve everything; which shall say to each, 'Here terminates your
right, there commences your duty: lay down your arms!'

"And in that day you will all have one common thought, common interests, a common destiny;
you will embrace each other, and recognize each other as children of the same blood and of
the same race; that day you shall no longer be hostile tribes--you will be a people; you will
be no longer merely Burgundy, Normandy, Brittany, Provence--you will be France! You will no
longer make appeals to war; you will do so to civilization."

If, at that period I speak of, some one had uttered these words, all men would have cried out:
"What a dreamer! what a dream! How little this pretended prophet is acquainted with the human
heart!" Yet time has gone on and on, and we find that this dream has been realized.

Well, then, at this moment we who are assembled here say to France, to England, to Spain, to
Italy, to Russia: "A day will come, when from your hands also the arms they have grasped shall
fall. A day will come, when war shall appear as impossible, and will be as impossible, between
Paris and London, between St. Petersburg and Berlin, as it is now between Rouen and Amiens,
between Boston and Philadelphia.

"A day will come, when you, France; you, Russia; you, Italy; you, England; you, Germany; all
of you nations of the continent, shall, without losing your distinctive qualities and your
glorious individuality, be blended into a superior unity, and shall constitute an European
fraternity, just as Normandy, Brittany, Burgundy, Lorraine, have been blended into France.
A day will come when the only battle field shall be the market open to commerce, and the mind
open to new ideas. A day will come when bullets and shells shall be replaced by votes, by the
universal suffrage of nations, by the arbitration of a great sovereign senate.

Nor is it necessary for four hundred years to pass away for that day to come. We live in a
period in which a year often suffices to do the work of a century.

Suppose that the people of Europe, instead of mistrusting each other, entertaining jealousy
of each other, hating each other, become fast friends; suppose they say that before they are
French or English or German they are men, and that if nations form countries, human kind forms
a family. Suppose that the enormous sums spent in maintaining armies should be spent in acts
of mutual confidence. Suppose that the millions that are lavished on hatred, were bestowed
on love, given to peace instead of war, given to labor, to intelligence, to industry, to commerce,
to navigation, to agriculture, to science, to art.

If this enormous sum were expended in this manner, know you what would happen? The face of
the world would be changed. Isthmuses would be cut through. Railroads would cover the continents;
the merchant navy of the globe would be increased a hundredfold. There would be nowhere barren
plains nor moors nor marshes. Cities would be found where now there are only deserts. Asia
would be rescued to civilization; Africa would be rescued to man; abundance would gush forth
on every side, from every vein of the earth at the touch of man, like the living stream from
the rock beneath the rod of Moses.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 15: By Victor Hugo, a celebrated French writer (1802-1885).]

III.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 16: By Sir Walter Scott, a Scottish novelist and poet (1771-1832).]

IV.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 18: By William Collins, an English poet (1721-1759).]

     EXPRESSION: Which one of these three poems requires to be read with
     most spirit and enthusiasm? Which is the most pathetic? Which is
     the most musical? Which calls up the most pleasing mental pictures?

     Talk with your teacher about the three authors of these poems, and
     learn all you can about their lives and writings.

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 19: From Diedrich Knickerbocker's, "History of New York," by Washington Irving.]

     NOTES: More than two hundred and fifty years have passed since the
     "good old days" described in this selection. New York in 1660 was a
     small place. It was called New Amsterdam, and its inhabitants were
     chiefly Dutch people from Holland. Knickerbocker's "History of New
     York" gives a delightfully humorous account of those early times.

     The festival of St. Nicholas occurs on December 6, and with the
     Dutch colonists was equivalent to our Christmas.

     WORD STUDY: sanctum sanctorum, a Latin expression meaning "holy
     of holies," a most sacred place.

     noblesse, persons of high rank.

     olykoeks ([)o]l´ y cooks), doughnuts, or crullers.

     Mynheer (m[=i]n h[=a]r´), sir, Mr.

     Vrouw (vrou), madam, lady.

     Tobit, a pious man of ancient times whose story is related in
     "The Book of Tobit."

     Haman (ha´ man), the prime minister of the king of Babylon, who
     was hanged on a gibbet which he had prepared for another. See "The
     Book of Esther."

     Har´ le quin, a clown well known in Italian comedy.

     Look in the dictionary for: gorgeous, rhomboids, primeval,
     patriarchal, burgher, crone, porpoises, beverage,
     divertisements.

THE OLD-FASHIONED THANKSGIVING[20]

I do not know but it is that old New England holiday of Thanksgiving which, for one of New
England birth, has most of home associations tied up with it, and most of gleeful memories.
I know that they are very present ones.

We all knew when it was coming; we all loved turkey--not Turkey on the map, for which we cared
very little after we had once bounded it--by the Black Sea on the east, and by something else
on the other sides--but basted turkey, brown turkey, stuffed turkey. Here was richness!

We had scored off the days until we were sure, to a recitation mark, when it was due--well
into the end of November, when winds would be blowing from the northwest, with great piles
of dry leaves all down the sides of the street and in the angles of pasture walls.

I cannot for my life conceive why any one should upset the old order of things by marking it
down a fortnight earlier. A man in the country wants his crops well in and housed before he
is ready to gush out with a round, outspoken Thanksgiving; but everybody knows, who knows anything
about it, that the purple tops and the cow-horn turnips are, nine times in ten, left out till
the latter days of November, and husking not half over.

We all knew, as I said, when it was coming. We had a stock of empty flour barrels on Town-hill
stuffed with leaves, and a big pole set in the ground, and a battered tar barrel, with its
bung chopped out, to put on top of the pole. It was all to beat the last year's bonfire--and
it did. The country wagoners had made their little stoppages at the back door. We knew what
was to come of that. And if the old cook--a monstrous fine woman, who weighed two hundred if
she weighed a pound--was brusque and wouldn't have us "round," we knew what was to come of
that, too. Such pies as hers demanded thoughtful consideration: not very large, and baked in
scalloped tins, and with such a relishy flavor to them, as on my honor, I do not recognize
in any pies of this generation....

The sermon on that Thanksgiving (and we all heard it) was long. We boys were prepared for that
too. But we couldn't treat a Thanksgiving sermon as we would an ordinary one; we couldn't doze--there
was too much ahead. It seemed to me that the preacher made rather a merit of holding us in
check--with that basted turkey in waiting. At last, though, it came to an end; and I believe
Dick and I both joined in the doxology.

All that followed is to me now a cloud of misty and joyful expectation, until we took our places--a
score or more of cousins and kinsfolk; and the turkey, and celery, and cranberries, and what
nots, were all in place.

Did Dick whisper to me as we went in, "Get next to me, old fellow"?

I cannot say; I have a half recollection that he did. But bless me! what did anybody care for
what Dick said?

And the old gentleman who bowed his head and said grace--there is no forgetting him. And the
little golden-haired one who sat at his left--his pet, his idol--who lisped the thanksgiving
after him, shall I forget her, and the games of forfeit afterwards at evening that brought
her curls near to me?

These fifty years she has been gone from sight, and is dust. What an awful tide of Thanksgivings
has drifted by since she bowed her golden locks, and clasped her hand, and murmured, "Our Father,
we thank thee for this, and for all thy bounties!"

Who else? Well, troops of cousins--good, bad, and indifferent. No man is accountable for his
cousins, I think; or if he is, the law should be changed. If a man can't speak honestly of
cousinhood, to the third or fourth degree, what can he speak honestly of? Didn't I see little
Floy (who wore pea-green silk) make a saucy grimace when I made a false cut at that rolypoly
turkey drumstick and landed it on the tablecloth?

There was that scamp Tom, too, who loosened his waistcoat before he went into dinner. I saw
him do it. Didn't he make faces at me, till he caught a warning from Aunt Polly's uplifted finger?

How should I forget that good, kindly Aunt Polly--very severe in her turban, and with her meeting-house
face upon her, but full of a great wealth of bonbons and dried fruits on Saturday afternoons,
in I know not what capacious pockets; ample, too, in her jokes and in her laugh; making that
day a great maelstrom of mirth around her?

H---- sells hides now, and is as rich as Croesus, whatever that may mean; but does he remember
his venturesome foray for a little bit of crisp roast pig that lay temptingly on the edge of
the dish that day?

There was Sarah, too,--turned of seventeen, education complete, looking down on us all--terribly
learned (I know for a fact that she kept Mrs. Hemans in her pocket); terribly self-asserting,
too. If she had not married happily, and not had a little brood about her in after years (which
she did), I think she would have made one of the most terrible Sorosians of our time. At least
that is the way I think of it now, looking back across the basted turkey (which she ate without
gravy) and across the range of eager Thanksgiving faces.

There was Uncle Ned--no forgetting him--who had a way of patting a boy on the head so that
the patting reached clear through to the boy's heart, and made him sure of a blessing hovering
over. That was the patting I liked. That's the sort of uncle to come to a Thanksgiving dinner--the
sort that eat double filberts with you, and pay up next day by noon with a pocketknife or a
riding whip. Hurrah for Uncle Ned!

And Aunt Eliza--is there any keeping her out of mind? I never liked the name much; but the
face and the kindliness which was always ready to cover, as well as she might, what wrong we
did, and to make clear what good we did, make me enrol her now--where she belongs evermore--among
the saints. So quiet, so gentle, so winning, making conquest of all of us, because she never
sought it; full of dignity, yet never asserting it; queening it over all by downright kindliness
of heart. What a wife she would have made! Heigho! how we loved her, and made our boyish love
of her--a Thanksgiving!

Were there oranges? I think there were, with green spots on the peel--lately arrived from Florida.
Tom boasted that he ate four. I dare say he told the truth--he looked peaked, and was a great
deal the worse for the dinner next day, I remember.

Was there punch, or any strong liquors? No; so far as my recollection now goes, there was none.

Champagne?

I have a faint remembrance of a loud pop or two which set some cousinly curls over opposite
me into a nervous shake. Yet I would not like to speak positively. Good bottled cider or pop
beer may possibly account for all the special phenomena I call to mind.

Was there coffee, and were there olives? Not to the best of my recollection; or, if present,
I lose them in the glamour of mince pies and Marlborough puddings.

How we ever sidled away from that board when that feast was done I have no clear conception.
I am firm in the belief that thanksgiving was said at the end, as at the beginning. I have
a faint recollection of a gray head passing out at the door, and of a fleece of golden curls
beside him, against which I jostle--not unkindly.

Dark?

Yes; I think the sun had gone down about the time when the mince pies had faded.

Did Dick and Tom and the rest of us come sauntering in afterwards when the rooms were empty,
foraging for any little tidbits of the feast that might be left, the tables showing only wreck
under the dim light of a solitary candle?

How we found our way with the weight of that stupendous dinner by us to the heights of Town-hill
it is hard to tell. But we did, and when our barrel pile was fairly ablaze, we danced like
young satyrs round the flame, shouting at our very loudest when the fire caught the tar barrel
at the top, and the yellow pile of blaze threw its lurid glare over hill and houses and town.

Afterwards I have recollection of an hour or more in a snug square parlor, which is given over
to us youngsters and our games, dimly lighted, as was most fitting; but a fire upon the hearth
flung out a red glory on the floor and on the walls.

Was it a high old time, or did we only pretend that it was?

Didn't I know little Floy in that pea-green silk, with my hands clasped round her waist and
my eyes blinded--ever so fast? Didn't I give Dick an awful pinch in the leg, when I lay perdu
under the sofa in another one of those tremendous games? Didn't the door that led into the
hall show a little open gap from time to time--old faces peering in, looking very kindly in
the red firelight flaring on them? And didn't those we loved best look oftenest? Don't they always?

Well, well--we were fagged at last: little Floy in a snooze before we knew it; Dick, pretending
not to be sleepy, but gaping in a prodigious way. But the romps and the fatigue made sleep
very grateful when it came at last: yet the sleep was very broken; the turkey and the nuts
had their rights, and bred stupendous Thanksgiving dreams. What gorgeous dreams they were,
to be sure!

I seem to dream them again to-day.

Once again I see the old, revered gray head bowing in utter thankfulness, with the hands clasped.

Once again, over the awful tide of intervening years--so full, and yet so short--I seem to
see the shimmer of her golden hair--an aureole of light blazing on the borders of boyhood:
"For this, and all thy bounties, our Father, we thank thee."

FOOTNOTE:

[Footnote 21: By Robert Herrick, an English poet (1591-1674).]

FIRST DAYS AT WAKEFIELD[22]

