She was always initiating petty breaches of discipline. Her greatest exploit was the howling
before the mid-day meal. This was an imitation of the noises made by the carnivora at the Zoological
Gardens at feeding-time; the idea was taken up by prisoner after prisoner until the whole place
was alive with barkings, yappings, roarings, pelican chatterings, and feline yowlings, interspersed
with shrieks of hysterical laughter. To many in that crowded solitude it came as an extraordinary
relief. It was better even than the hymn-singing. But it annoyed Ann Veronica.

"Idiots!" she said, when she heard this pandemonium, and with particular reference to this
young lady with the throaty contralto next door. "Intolerable idiots!..."

It took some days for this phase to pass, and it left some scars and something like a decision.
"Violence won't do it," said Ann Veronica. "Begin violence, and the woman goes under....

"But all the rest of our case is right.... Yes."

As the long, solitary days wore on, Ann Veronica found a number of definite attitudes and conclusions
in her mind.

One of these was a classification of women into women who are and women who are not hostile
to men. "The real reason why I am out of place here," she said, "is because I like men. I can
talk with them. I've never found them hostile. I've got no feminine class feeling. I don't
want any laws or freedoms to protect me from a man like Mr. Capes. I know that in my heart
I would take whatever he gave....

"A woman wants a proper alliance with a man, a man who is better stuff than herself. She wants
that and needs it more than anything else in the world. It may not be just, it may not be fair,
but things are so. It isn't law, nor custom, nor masculine violence settled that. It is just
how things happen to be. She wants to be free--she wants to be legally and economically free,
so as not to be subject to the wrong man; but only God, who made the world, can alter things
to prevent her being slave to the right one.

"And if she can't have the right one?

"We've developed such a quality of preference!"

She rubbed her knuckles into her forehead. "Oh, but life is difficult!" she groaned. "When
you loosen the tangle in one place you tie a knot in another.... Before there is any change,
any real change, I shall be dead--dead--dead and finished--two hundred years!..."

Part 5

One afternoon, while everything was still, the wardress heard her cry out suddenly and alarmingly,
and with great and unmistakable passion, "Why in the name of goodness did I burn that twenty
pounds?"

Part 6

She sat regarding her dinner. The meat was coarse and disagreeably served.

"I suppose some one makes a bit on the food," she said....

"One has such ridiculous ideas of the wicked common people and the beautiful machinery of order
that ropes them in. And here are these places, full of contagion!

"Of course, this is the real texture of life, this is what we refined secure people forget.
We think the whole thing is straight and noble at bottom, and it isn't. We think if we just
defy the friends we have and go out into the world everything will become easy and splendid.
One doesn't realize that even the sort of civilization one has at Morningside Park is held
together with difficulty. By policemen one mustn't shock.

"This isn't a world for an innocent girl to walk about in. It's a world of dirt and skin diseases
and parasites. It's a world in which the law can be a stupid pig and the police-stations dirty
dens. One wants helpers and protectors--and clean water.

"Am I becoming reasonable or am I being tamed?

"I'm simply discovering that life is many-sided and complex and puzzling. I thought one had
only to take it by the throat.

"It hasn't GOT a throat!"

Part 7

