HALF A CENTURY.

BY

JANE GREY SWISSHELM.

       *       *       *       *       *

           "God so willed:
     Mankind is ignorant! a man am I:
     Call ignorance my sorrow, not my sin!"

           "O, still as ever friends are they
     Who, in the interest of outraged truth
     Deprecate such rough handling of a lie!"

                           ROBERT BROWNING.

1880.

PREFACE.

It has been assumed, and is generally believed, that the Anti-slavery struggle, which, culminated
in the Emancipation Proclamation of 1862, originated in Infidelity, and was a triumph of Skepticism
over Christianity. In no way can this error be so well corrected as by the personal history
of those who took part in that struggle; and as most of them have passed from earth without
leaving any record of the education and motives which underlay their action, the duty they
neglected becomes doubly incumbent on the few who remain.

To supply one quota of the inside history of the great Abolition war, is the primary object
of this work; but scarcely secondary to this object is that of recording incidents characteristic
of the Peculiar Institution overthrown in that struggle.

Another object, and one which struggles for precedence, is to give an inside history of the
hospitals during the war of the Rebellion, that the American people may not forget the cost
of that Government so often imperiled through their indifference.

A third object, is to give an analysis of the ground which produced the Woman's Rights agitation,
and the causes which limited its influence.

A fourth is, to illustrate the force of education and the mutability of human character, by
a personal narrative of one who, in 1836, would have broken an engagement rather than permit
her name to appear in print, even in the announcement of marriage; and who, in 1850, had as
much newspaper notoriety as any man of that time, and was singularly indifferent to the praise
or blame of the Press;--of one who, in 1837, could not break the seal of silence set upon her
lips by "Inspiration," even so far as to pray with a man dying of intemperance, and who yet,
in 1862, addressed the Minnesota Senate in session, and as many others as could be packed in
the hall, with no more embarrassment than though talking with a friend in a chimney corner.

J.G.S.

CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.       I FIND LIFE

II.      PROGRESS IN CALVINISM, HUNT GHOSTS, SEE LA FAYETTE

III.     FATHER'S DEATH

IV.      GO TO BOARDING SCHOOL

V.       LOSE MY BROTHER

VI.      JOIN CHURCH, AND MAKE NEW ENDEAVORS TO KEEP SABBATH

VII.     DELIVERER OF THE DARK NIGHT

VIII.    FITTING MYSELF INTO MY SPHERE

IX.      HABITATIONS OF HORRID CRUELTY

X.       KENTUCKY CONTEMPT FOR LABOR

XI.      REBELLION

XII.     THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH

XIII.    "LABOR--SERVICE OR ACT"

XIV.     SWISSVALE

XV.      WILLOWS BY THE WATER-COURSES

XVI.     THE WATERS GROW DEEP

XVII.    MY NAME APPEARS IN PRINT

XVIII.   MEXICAN WAR LETTERS

XIX.     TRAINING SCHOOL

XX.      RIGHTS OF MARRIED WOMEN

XXI.     PITTSBURG SATURDAY VISITER

XXII.    RECEPTION OF THE VISITER

XXIII.   MY CROOKED TELESCOPE

XXIV.    MINT, CUMMIN AND ANNIS

XXV.     FREE SOIL PARTY

XXVI.    VISIT WASHINGTON

XXVII.   DANIEL WEBSTER

XXVIII.  FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW--THE TWO RIDDLES

XXIX.    BLOOMERS AND WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTIONS

XXX.     MANY MATTERS

XXXI.    THE MOTHER CHURCH

XXXII.   POLITICS AND PRINTERS

XXXIII.  SUMNER, BURLINGAME AND CASSIUS M. CLAY

XXXIV.   FINANCE AND DESERTION

XXXV.    MY HERMITAGE

XXXVI.   THE MINNESOTA DICTATOR

XXXVII.  ANOTHER VISITER

XXXVIII. BORDER RUFFIANISM

XXXIX.   SPEAK IN PUBLIC

XL.      A FAMOUS VICTORY

XLI.     STATE AND NATIONAL POLITICS

XLII.    RELIGIOUS CONTROVERSIES

XLIII.   FRONTIER LIFE

XLIV.    PRINTERS

XLV.     THE REBELLION

XLVI.    PLATFORMS

XLVII.   OUT INTO THE WORLD AND HOME AGAIN

XLVIII.  THE ARISTOCRACY OF THE WEST

XLIX.    THE INDIAN MASSACRE OF '62

L.       A MISSIVE AND A MISSION

LI.      NO USE FOR ME AMONG THE WOUNDED

LII.     FIND WORK

LIII.    HOSPITAL GANGRENE

LIV.     GET PERMISSION TO WORK

LV.      FIND A NAME

LVI.     DROP MY ALIAS

LVII.    HOSPITAL DRESS

LVIII.   SPECIAL WORK

LIX.     HEROIC AND ANTI-HEROIC TREATMENT

LX.      COST OF ORDER

LXI.     LEARN TO CONTROL PYAEMIA

LXII.    FIRST CASE OF GROWING A NEW BONE

LXIII.   A HEROIC MOTHER

LXIV.    TWO KINDS OF APPRECIATION

LXV.     LIFE AND DEATH

LXVI.    MEET MISS DIX AND GO TO FREDERICKSBURG

LXVII.   THE OLD THEATER

LXVIII.  AM PLACED IN AUTHORITY

LXIX.    VISITORS

LXX.     WOUNDED OFFICERS

LXXI.    "NOW I LAY ME DOWN TO SLEEP"

LXXII.   MORE VICTIMS AND A CHANGE OF BASE

LXXIII.  PRAYERS ENOUGH AND TO SPARE

LXXIV.   GET OUT OF THE OLD THEATER

LXXV.    TAKE BOAT AND SEE A SOCIAL PARTY

LXXVI.   TAKE FINAL LEAVE OF FREDERICKSBURG

LXXVII.  TRY TO GET UP A SOCIETY AND GET SICK

LXXVIII. AN EFFICIENT NURSE

LXXIX.   TWO FREDERICKSBURG PATIENTS

LXXX.    AM ENLIGHTENED

         CONCLUSION

HALF A CENTURY.

CHAPTER I.

I FIND LIFE.

Those soft pink circles which fell upon my face and hands, caught in my hair, danced around
my feet, and frolicked over the billowy waves of bright, green grass--did I know they were
apple blossoms? Did I know it was an apple tree through which I looked up to the blue sky,
over which white clouds scudded away toward the great hills? Had I slept and been awakened
by the wind to find myself in the world?

It is probable that I had for some time been familiar with that tree, and all my surroundings,
for I had been breathing two and a half years, and had made some progress in the art of reading
and sewing, saying catechism and prayers. I knew the gray kitten which walked away; knew that
the girl who brought it back and reproved me for not holding it was Adaline, my nurse; knew
that the young lady who stood near was cousin Sarah Alexander, and that the girl to whom she
gave directions about putting bread into a brick oven was Big Jane; that I was Little Jane,
and that the white house across the common was Squire Horner's.

There was no surprise in anything save the loveliness of blossom and tree; of the grass beneath
and the sky above; and this first indelible imprint on my memory seems to have found this inner
something I call me, as capable of reasoning as it has ever been.

While I sat and wondered, father came, took me in his loving arms and carried me to mother's
room, where she lay in a tent-bed, with blue foliage and blue birds outlined on the white ground
of the curtains, like the apple-boughs on the blue and white sky. The cover was turned down,
and I was permitted to kiss a baby-sister, and warned to be good, lest Mrs. Dampster, who had
brought the baby, should come and take it away. This autocrat was pointed out, as she sat in
a gray dress, white 'kerchief and cap, and no other potentate has ever inspired me with such
reverential awe.

My second memory is of a "great awakening" to a sense of sin, and of my lost and undone condition.
On a warm summer day, while walking alone on the common which lay between home and Squire Horner's
house, I was struck motionless by the thought that I had forgotten God. It seemed probable,
considering the total depravity of my nature, that I had been thinking bad thoughts, and these
I labored to recall, that I might repent and plead with Divine mercy for forgiveness. But alas!
I could remember nothing save the crowning crime--forgetfulness of God.

I seemed to stand outside, and see myself a mere mite, in a pink sun-bonnet and white bib,
the very chief of sinners, for the probability was I had been thinking of that bonnet and bib.
It was quite certain that God knew my sin; and ah, the crushing horror that I could, by no
possibility conceal aught from the All-seeing Eye, while it was equally impossible to win its
approval. The Divine Law was so perfect that I could not hope to meet its requirements--the
Divine Law-giver so alert that no sin could escape detection.

Under that cloud of doom the sunshine grew dark, and I did not dare to move until a cheery
voice called out something about my pretty bonnet, and gave me a sense of companionship in
this dreadful, dreadful world. Rose, a large native African, had spoken to me from her place
in Squire Horner's kitchen, and I went home full of solemn resolves and sad forebodings.

This is probably what evangelists would call my conversion, and it came in my third summer.
There was a fire in the grate when mother showed Dr. Robt. Wilson, our family physician, a
pair of wristbands and collar I had stitched for father, and when they spoke of me as not being
three years old--but then I had in my mind the marks of that "great awakening."

To me, no childhood was possible under the training this indicates, yet in giving that training,
my parents were loving and gentle as they were faithful. Believing in the danger of eternal
death, they could but guard me from it, by the only means of which they had any knowledge.

Before the completion of that momentous third year of life, I had learned to read the New Testament
readily, and was deeply grieved that our pastor played "patty cake" with my hands, instead
of hearing me recite my catechism, and talking of original sin. During that winter I went regularly
to school, where I was kept at the head of a spelling-class, in which were young men and women.
One of these, Wilkins McNair, used to carry me home, much amused, no doubt, by my supremacy.
His father, Col. Dunning McNair, was proprietor of the village, and had been ridiculed for
predicting that, in the course of human events, there would be a graded, McAdamized road, all
the way from Philadelphia to Pittsburg, and that if he did not live to see it his children
would. He was a neighbor and friend of Wm. Wilkins, afterwards Judge, Secretary of War, and
Minister to Russia, and had named his son for him. When his prediction was fulfilled and the
road made, it ran through his land, and on it he laid out the village and called it Wilkinsburg.
Mr. McNair lived south of it in a rough stone house--the manor of the neighborhood--with half
a dozen slave huts ranged before the kitchen door, and the gateway between his grounds and
the village, as seen from the upper windows of our house, was, to me, the boundary between
the known and the unknown, the dread portal through which came Adam, the poor old ragged slave,
with whom my nurse threatened me when I did not do as she wished. He was a wretched creature,
who made and sold hickory brooms, as he dragged his rheumatic limbs on the down grade of life,
until he found rest by freezing to death in the woods, where he had gone for saplings.

I was born on the 6th of December, 1815, in Pittsburg, on the bank of the Monongahela, near
its confluence with the Allegheny. My father was Thomas Cannon, and my mother Mary Scott. They
were both Scotch-Irish and descended from the Scotch Reformers. On my mother's side were several
men and women who signed the "Solemn League and Covenant," and defended it to the loss of livings,
lauds and life. Her mother, Jane Grey, was of that family which was allied to royalty, and
gave to England her nine day's queen.

This grandmother I remember as a stately old lady, quaintly and plainly dressed, reading a
large Bible or answering questions by quotations from its pages. She was unsuspicious as an
infant, always doubtful about "actual transgressions" of any, while believing in the total
depravity of all. Educated in Ireland as an heiress, she had not been taught to write, lest
she should marry without the consent of her elder brother guardian. She felt that we owed her
undying gratitude for bestowing her hand and fortune on our grandfather, who was but a yoeman,
even if "he did have a good leasehold, ride a high horse, wear spurs, and have Hamilton blood
in his veins." She made us familiar with the battle of the Boyne and the sufferings in Londonderry,
in both of which her great-grandfather had shared, but was incapable of that sectarian rancor,
which marks so many descendents of the men who met on those fields of blood and fought for
their convictions.

In April, 1816, father moved from Pittsburg out to the new village of Wilkinsburg; took with
him a large stock of goods, bought property, built the house in which I first remember him,
and planted the apple tree which imprinted the first picture on my memory. But the crash which
followed the last war with England brought general bankruptcy; the mortgages on Col. McNair's
estate made the titles valueless, and this, with the fall of his real estate in Pittsburg,
reduced father to poverty, from which he never recovered.

CHAPTER II.

PROGRESS IN CALVINISM--HUNT GHOSTS--SEE LA FAYETTE.--AGE, 6-9.

My parents were members of the Covenanter Congregation, of which Dr. John Black was pastor
for forty-five years. He was a man of power, a profound logician, with great facility in conveying
ideas. To his pulpit ministrations I am largely indebted for whatever ability I have to discriminate
between truth and falsehood; but the church was in Pittsburg, and our home seven miles away,
so we seldom went to meeting. The rules of the denomination forbade "occasional hearing." Father
and mother had once been "sessioned" for stopping on their way home to hear the conclusion
of a communion service in Dr. Brace's church, which was Seceder. So our Sabbaths were usually
spent in religious services at home. These I enjoyed, as it aided my life-work of loving and
thinking about God, who seemed, to my mind, to have some special need of my attention. Nothing
was done on that day which could have been done the day before, or could be postponed till
the day after. Coffee grinding was not thought of, and once, when we had no flour for Saturday's
baking, and the buckwheat cakes were baked the evening before and warmed on Sabbath morning,
we were all troubled about the violation of the day.

There was a Presbyterian "meeting-house" two miles east of Wilkinsburg, where a large, wealthy
congregation worshipped. Rev. James Graham was pastor, and unlike other Presbyterians, they
never "profaned the sanctuary" by singing "human compositions," but confined themselves to
Rouse's version of David's Psalms, as did our own denomination. This aided that laxness of
discipline which permitted Big Jane, Adaline and brother William to attend sometimes, under
care of neighbors. Once I was allowed to accompany them.

I was the proud possessor of a pair of red shoes, which I carried rolled up in my 'kerchief
while we walked the two miles. We stopped in the woods; my feet were denuded of their commonplace
attire and arrayed in white hose, beautifully clocked, and those precious slices, and my poor
conscience tortured about my vanity. The girls also exchanged theirs for morocco slippers.
We concealed our walking shoes under a mossy log and proceeded to the meeting-house.

It was built in the form of a T, of hewn logs, and the whole structure, both inside and out,
was a combination of those soft grays and browns with which nature colors wood, and in its
close setting of primeval forest, made a harmonious picture. Atone side lay a graveyard; birds
sang in the surrounding trees, some of which reached out their giant arms and touched the log
walls. Swallows had built nests under the eaves outside, and some on the rough projections
inside, and joined their twitter to the songs of other birds and the rich organ accompaniment
of wind and trees.

There were two sermons, and in the intermission, a church sociable, in fact if not in name.
Friends who lived twenty miles apart, met here, exchanged greetings and news, gave notices
and invitations, and obeyed the higher law of kindness under protest of their Calvinistic consciences.
In this breathing-time we ate our lunch, went to the nearest house and had a drink from the
spring which ran through the stone milk-house. It was a day full of sight-seeing and of solemn,
grand impressions.

Of the two sermons I remember but one, and this from the text "Many are called but few are
chosen," and the comments were Calvinism of the most rigid school. On our way home, my brother
William--three years older than I--was very silent and thoughtful for some time, then spoke
of the sermon, of which I entirely approved, but he stoutly declared that he did not believe
it; did not believe God called people to come to him while he did not choose to have them come.
It would not be fair, indeed, he thought it would be mean.

That evening, when we were saying the shorter catechism, the question, "What are the decrees
of God?" came to me, and after repeating the answer, I asked father to explain it--not that
I needed any explanation, but that William might be enlightened; for I was anxious about his
soul, on account of his skepticism. Enlightened he could not be, and even to father expressed
his doubts and disapprobation. We renewed the discussion when alone, and during all his life
I labored with him; but soon found the common refuge of orthodox minds, in feeling that those
especially loved by them will be made exceptions in the general distribution of wrath due to
unbelief.

One day I went with him to hunt the cow. We came to a wood just north of the village, where
the wind roared and shook the trees so that I was quite awe-stricken; but he held my hand and
assured me there was no danger, until he suddenly drew me back, exclaiming:

"Oh see!" as a great tree came crashing down across the path before us, and so near that it
must have fallen on us if he had not seen it and stepped back. Even then he refused to go home
without the cow, and taking up a daddy-long-legs, he inquired of it where she was, and started
in the direction indicated, when we were arrested by the voice of Big Jane, who had come to
search for us.

On reaching home, we found a new baby-sister, Elizabeth. Soon after her birth, in April, 1821,
father moved back to Pittsburg, and lived on Sixth street, opposite Trinity Church, on property
belonging to my maternal grandfather. There was no church there at that time, but a thickly
peopled graveyard, which adjoined that of the First Presbyterian Church, on the corner of Sixth
and Wood. These were above the level of the street, and were protected by a worm-fence that
ran along the top of a green bank on which we played and gathered flowers.

Grandmother took me sometimes to walk in these graveyards at night, and there talked to me
about God and heaven and the angels. I was sufficiently interested in these, but especially
longed to see the ghosts, and often went to look for them. We had a bachelor uncle who delighted
in telling us tales of the supernatural, and he peopled these graveyards with ghosts, in which
I believed as implicitly as in the Revelations made to John on the Isle of Patmos, which were
my favorite literature.

When the congregation concluded to abandon the "Round Church," which stood on the triangle
between Liberty, Wood and Sixth streets, and began to dig for a foundation for Trinity, where
it now stands, there was great desecration of graves. One day a thrill of excitement and stream
of talk ran through the neighborhood, about a Mrs. Cooper, whose body had been buried three
years, and was found in a wonderful state of preservation, when the coffin was laid open by
the diggers. It was left that the friends might remove it, and that night I felt would be the
time for ghosts. So I went over alone, and while I crouched by the open grave, peering in,
a cloud passed, and the moon poured down a flood of light, by which I could see the quiet sleeper,
with folded hands, taking her last, long rest.

It was inexpressibly grand, solemn and sad. There were no gaslights, no paved street near,
no one stirring. Earth was far away and heaven near at hand, but no ghost came, and I went
home disappointed. Afterwards I had a still more disheartening adventure.

I had gone an errand to cousin Alexander's, on Fifth street, stayed late, and coming home,
found Wood street deserted. The moon shone brightly, but on the graveyard side were heavy shadows,
except in the open space opposite the church. I was on the other side, and there was the office
of the Democratic paper, and over the door the motto "Our country, right or wrong." This had
long appeared to be an uncanny spot, owing to the wickedness of this sentiment, and I was thinking
of the possibility of seeing Auld Nick guarding his property, when my attention was attracted
to a tall, white figure in the bright moonlight, outside the graveyard fence.

I stopped an instant, in great surprise, and listened for footsteps, but no sound accompanied
the motion. It did not walk, but glided, and must have risen out of the ground, for only a
moment before there was nothing visible. I clasped my hands in mute wonder, but my ghost was
getting away, and to make its acquaintance I must hurry. Crossing the street I ran after and
gained on it. It passed into the shadow of the engine house, on across Sixth street, into the
moonlight, then into the shadow, before I overtook it, when lo! it was a mortal woman, barefoot,
in a dress which was probably a faded print. Most prints faded then, and this was white, long
and scant, making a very ghostly robe, while on her head she carried a bundle tied up in a
sheet. She had, of course, come out of Virgin alley, where many laundresses lived, and had
just passed out of the shadow when I saw her. We exchanged salutations, and I went home to
lie and brood over the unreliable nature of ghosts.

I was trying to get into a proper frame of mind for saying my prayers, but I doubt if they
were said that night, as we were soon aroused by the cries of fire. Henry Clay was being burned,
in effigy, on the corner of Sixth and Wood streets, to show somebody's disapproval of his course
in the election of John Quincy Adams. The Democratic editor, McFarland, was tried and found
guilty of the offense, and took revenge in ridiculing his opponents. Charles Glenn, a fussy
old gentleman, member of our church, was an important witness for the prosecution, and in the
long, rhyming account published by the defendant, he was thus remembered:

     "Then in came Glenn, that man of peace,
     And swore to facts as sleek as grease;
     By all his Uncle Aleck's geese,
           McFarland burnt the tar-barrel."

It was before this time that Lafayette revisited Pittsburg, and people went wild to do him
honor. The schools paraded for his inspection, and ours was ranged along the pavement in front
of the First Presbyterian church, the boys next the curb, the girls next the fence, all in
holiday attire, and wearing blue badges. The distinguished visitor passed up between them,
leaning on the arm of another gentleman, bowing and smiling as he went. When he came to where
I stood, he stepped aside, laid his hand on my head, turned up my face and spoke to me.

I was too happy to know what he said, and in all the years since that day, that hand has lain
on my brow as a consecration.

CHAPTER III.

FATHER'S DEATH.--AGE, 6-12.

In the city we went regularly to meeting, and Dr. Black seemed always to talk to me, and I
had no more difficulty in understanding his sermons, than in mastering the details of the most
simple duty. The first of which I preserve the memory was about Peter, who was made to illustrate
the growth of crime. He began with boasting; then came its natural fruit, cowardice, in following
his master afar off; next falsehood, and from this he proceeded to perjury. It did seem that
a disciple of Christ could go no further; but for falsehood and perjury there might be excuse
in the hope of reward, and Peter found a lower deep, for "he began to curse and to swear."
A profane swearer is without temptation, and serves the devil for the pure love of the service.
What more could Peter do to prove that he knew not Jesus?

In the communion service is a ceremony called "fencing the tables," which consists of an appeal
to the consciences of intended communicants. Dr. Black began with the first commandment and
forbade those living in its violation to come to the table, and so proceeded through the decalogue.
When he came to the eighth, he straightened himself, placed his hands behind him, and with
thrilling emphasis said, "I debar from this holy table of the Lord, all slave-holders and horse-thieves,
and other dishonest persons," and without another word passed to the ninth commandment.

Soon after we returned to the city, sister Mary died of consumption, and father's health began
to fail. I have preserved the spinning wheel on which mother converted flax yarn into thread,
which she sold to aid in the support of the family, but soon the entire burden fell on her,
for father's illness developed into consumption, from which he died in March, 1823.

In spite of all the testamentary precautions he could take, whatever of his estate might have
been available for present support, was in the hands of lawyers, and mother was left with her
children and the debts. There were the contents of his shop and warehouse, some valuable real
estate in Pittsburg, which had passed out of his possession on a claim of ground-rent, and
a village home minus a title.

William was a mechanical genius, so mother set him to making little chairs, which he readily
sold, but he liked better to construct fire engines, which were quite wonderful but brought
no money. He had a splendid physique, was honorable and faithful, and if mother had been guided
by natural instinct in governing him, all would have been well; but he never met the requirements
of the elders of the church, who felt it their duty to manage our family affairs. So he was
often in trouble, and I, who gloried in him, contrived to shield him from many a storm.

At this time there was a fashionable furor for lace work. Mother sent me to learn it, and then
procured me pupils, whom I taught, usually sitting on their knee. But lace work soon gave way
to painting on velvet. This, too, I learned, and found profit in selling pictures. Ah, what
pictures I did make. I reached the culminating glory of artist life, when Judge Braden, of
Butler, gave me a new crisp five dollar bill for a Goddess of Liberty. Indeed, he wanted me
to be educated for an artist, and was far-seeing and generous enough to have been my permanent
patron, had an artistic education, or any other education, been possible for a Western Pennsylvania
girl in that dark age--the first half of the nineteenth century.

Mother made a discovery in the art of coloring leghorn and straw bonnets, which brought her
plenty of work, so we never lacked comforts of life, although grandfather's executors made
us pay rent for the house we occupied.

CHAPTER IV.

GO TO BOARDING-SCHOOL.--AGE, 12.

During my childhood there were no public schools in Pennsylvania. The State was pretty well
supplied with colleges for boys, while girls were permitted to go to subscription schools.
To these we were sent part of the time, and in one of them Joseph Caldwell, afterwards a prominent
missionary to India, was a schoolmate. But we had Dr. Black's sermons, full of grand morals,
science and history.

In lieu of colleges for girls, there were boarding-schools, and Edgeworth was esteemed one
of the best in the State. It was at Braddock's Field, and Mrs. Olever, an English woman of
high culture, was its founder and principal. To it my cousin, Mary Alexander, was sent, but
returned homesick, and refused to go back unless I went with her. It was arranged that I should
go for a few weeks, as I was greatly in need of country air; and, highly delighted, I was at
the rendezvous at the hour, one o'clock, with my box, ready for this excursion into the world
of polite literature. Mary was also there, and a new scholar, but Father Olever did not come
for us until four o'clock. He was a small, nervous gentleman, and lamps were already lighted
in the smoky city when we started to drive twelve miles through spring mud, on a cloudy, cheerless
afternoon. We knew he had no confidence in his power to manage those horses, though we also
knew he would do his best to save us from harm; but as darkness closed around us, I think we
felt like babes in the woods, and shuddered with vague fear as much as with cold and damp.
When we reached the "Bullock Pens," half a mile west of Wilkinsburg, there were many lights
and much bustle in and around the old yellow tavern, where teamsters were attending to their
weary horses. Here we turned off to the old mud road, and came to a place of which I had no
previous knowledge--a place of outer darkness and chattering teeth.

We met no more teams, saw no more lights, but seemed to be in an utterly uninhabited country.
Then, after an hour of wearisome jolting and plunging, we discovered that the darkness had
not been total, for the line of the horizon had been visible, but now it was swallowed up.
We knew we were in a wood, by the rush of the wind amid the dried white oak leaves--knew that
the road grew rougher at every step--that our driver became more nervous as he applied the
brake, and we went down, down.

Still the descent grew steeper. We stopped, and Father Olever felt for the bank with his whip
to be sure we were on the road. Then we heard the sound of rushing, angry waters, mingled with
the roar of the wind, and he seemed to hesitate about going on, but we could not very well
stay there, and he once more put his horses in motion, while we held fast and prayed silently
to the great Deliverer. After stopping again and feeling for the bank, lest we should go over
the precipitous hillside, which he knew was there, he proceeded until, with a great plunge,
we were in the angry waters, which arose to the wagon-bed, and roared and surged all around
us. The horses tried to go on, when something gave way, and our guardian concluded further
progress was impossible, and began to hallo at the top of his voice.

For a long time there was no response; then came an answering call from a long distance. Next
a light appeared, and that, too, was far away, but came toward us. When it reached the brink
of the water, and two men with it, we felt safe. The light-bearer held it up so that we saw
him quite well, and his peculiar appearance suited his surroundings. He was more an overgrown
boy than a man, beardless, with a long swarthy face, black hair and keen black eyes. He wore
heavy boots outside his pantaloons, a blouse and slouch hat, spoke to his companion as one
having authority, and with a laugh said to our small gentleman:

"Is this where you are?" but gave no heed to the answer as he waded in and threw off the check
lines, saying: "I wonder you did not drown your horses."

He next examined the wagon, paying no more attention to Father Olever's explanations than to
the water in which he seemed quite at home, and when he had finished his inspection he said:

"They must go to the house," and handing the light to the driver he took us up one by one and
carried us to the wet bank as easily as a child carries her doll. He gave some directions to
his companion, took the light and said to us:

"Come on," and we walked after him out into the limitless blackness, nothing doubting. We went
what seemed a long way, following this brigand-looking stranger, without seeing any sign of
life or hearing any sound save the roar of wind and water, but on turning a fence corner, we
came in sight of a large two-story house, with a bright light streaming out through many windows,
and a wide open door. There was a large stone barn on the other side of the road, and to this
our conductor turned, saying to us: "Go on to the house." This we did, and were met at the
open door by a middle-aged woman, shading with one hand the candle held in the other. This
threw a strong light on her face, which instantly reminded me of an eagle. She wore a double-bordered
white cap over her black hair, and looked suspiciously at us through her small keen, black
eyes, but kindly bade us come in to a low wainscoted hall, with broad stairway and many open
doors. Through one of these and a second door we saw a great fire of logs, and I should have
liked to sit by it, but she led us into a square wainscoted room on the opposite side, in which
blazed a coal fire almost as large as the log heap in the kitchen.

She gave us seats, and a white-haired man who sat in the corner, spoke to us, and made me feel
comfortable. Up to this time all the surroundings had had an air of enchanted castles, brigands,
ghosts, witches. The alert woman with the eagle face, in spite of her kindness, made me feel
myself an object of doubtful character, but this old man set me quite at ease. We were no more
than well warmed when the wagon drove to the door, and the boy-man with the lantern appeared,
saying,

"Come on."

We followed him again, and he lifted us into the wagon, while the mistress of the house stood
on the large flag-stone door-step, shading her candle-flame, and giving directions about our wraps.

"Coming events cast their shadows before," when they are between us and the light; but that
night the light must have been between them and me; for I bade good-bye to our hostess without
any premonition we should ever again meet, or that I should sit alone, as I do to-night, over
half a century later, in that same old wainscoted room, listening to the roar of those same
angry waters and the rush of the wind wrestling with the groaning trees, in the dense darkness
of this low valley.

When we had been carefully bestowed in the wagon, our deliverer took up his lantern, saying
to Father Olever:

"Drive on."

He was obeyed, and led the way over a bridge across another noisy stream, and along a road
where there was the sound of a waterfall very near, then up a steep, rocky way until he stopped,
saying,

"I guess you can get along now."

To Father Olever's thanks he only replied by a low, contemptuous but good-humored laugh, as
he turned to retrace his steps. All comfort and strength and hope seemed to go with him. We
were abandoned to our fate, babes in the woods again, with only God for our reliance. But after
a while we could see the horizon, and arrived at our destination several minutes before midnight,
to find the great mansion full of glancing lights and busy, expectant life.

The large family had waited up for Father Olever's return, for he and his wagon were the connecting
link between that establishment and the outside world. He appeared to great advantage surrounded
by a bevy of girls clamoring for letters and messages. To me the scene was fairy-land. I had
never before seen anything so grand as the great hall with its polished stairway. We had supper
in the housekeeper's room, and I was taken up this stairway, and then up and up a corkscrew
cousin until we reached the attic, which stretched over the whole house, one great dormitory
called the "bee-hive." Here I was to sleep with Helen Semple, a Pittsburg girl, of about my
own age, a frail blonde, who quite won my heart at our first meeting.

Next day was Sabbath, and I was greatly surprised to see pupils walk on the lawn. This was
such a desecration of the day, but I made no remark. I was too solemnly impressed by the grandeur
of being at Braddock's Field to have hinted that anything could be wrong. But for my own share
in the violation I was painfully penitent.

This was not new, for there were a long series of years in which the principal business of
six days of every week, was repentance for the very poor use made of the seventh, and from
this dreary treadmill of sin and sorrow, no faith ever could or did free me. I never could
see salvation in Christ apart from salvation from sin, and while the sin remained the salvation
was doubtful and the sorrow certain.

On the afternoon of that first Sabbath, a number of young lady pupils came to the Bee-hive
for a visit, and as I afterwards learned to inspect and name the two new girls, when I was
promptly and unanimously dubbed "Wax Doll." After a time, one remarked that they must go and
study their "ancient history lesson." I caught greedily at the words, ancient history. Ah,
if I could only be permitted to study such a lesson! No such progress or promotion seemed open
to me; but the thought interfered with my prayers, and followed me into the realm of sleep.
So when that class was called next forenoon, I was alert, and what was my surprise, to hear
those privileged girls stumbling over the story of Sampson? Could it be possible that was ancient
history? How did it come to pass that every one did not know all about Sampson, the man who
had laid his Lead on Delilah's wicked lap, to be shorn of his strength. If there is any thing
in that account, or any lesson to be drawn from it, with which I was not then familiar, it
is something I have never learned. Indeed, I seemed to have completed my theological education
before I did my twelfth year.

One morning, Mrs. Olever sent for me, and told me she had learned my mother was not able to
send me to school, but if I would take charge of the lessons of the little girls, she would
furnish me board and tuition. This most generous offer quite took my breath away, and was most
gladly accepted; but it was easy work, and I wondered my own studies were so light. I was allowed
to amuse myself drawing flowers, which were quite a surprise, and pronounced better than anything
the drawing master could do--to recite poetry, for the benefit of the larger girls, and to
play in the orchard with my pupils.

With the other girls, I became interested in hair-dressing. I had read "The Children of the
Abbey," and Amanda's romantic adventures enchanted me; but she was quite outside my life. Now
I made a nearer acquaintance with her. She changed her residence; so had I. She had brown ringlets;
I too should have them. So one Friday night, my hair was put up in papers, and next morning,
I let loose an amazing shower of curls.

The next thing to do was to go off alone, and sit reading in a romantic spot. Of course I did
not expect to meet Lord Mortimer! Miss Fitzallen never had any such expectations. I was simply
going out to read and admire the beauties of nature. When I had seated myself, in proper attitude,
on the gnarled root of an old tree, overhanging a lovely ravine, I proceeded to the reading
part of the play, and must of course be too much absorbed to hear the approaching footsteps,
to which I listened with bated breath. So I did not look up when they stopped at my side, or
until a pleasant voice said:

"Why you look quite romantic, my dear."

Then I saw Miss Olever, the head teacher, familiarly called "Sissy Jane." In that real and
beautiful presence Miss Fitzallen retired to her old place, and oh, the mortification she left
behind her! I looked up, a detected criminal, into the face of her who had brought to me this
humiliation, and took her for a model. My folly did not prevent our being sincere friends during
all her earnest and beautiful life.

She passed on, and I got back to the Bee-hive, when I disposed of my curls, and never again
played heroine.

CHAPTER V.

LOSE MY BROTHER.--AGE, 12-15.

Measured by the calendar, my boarding-school life was six weeks; but measured by its pleasant
memories, it was as many years. Mother wrote for me to come home; and in going I saw, by sunlight,
the scene of our adventure that dark night going out. It was a lovely valley, walled in by
steep, wooded hills. Two ravines joined, bringing each its contribution of running water, and
pouring it into the larger stream of the larger valley--a veritable "meeting of the waters"--in
all of nature's work, beautiful exceedingly.

The house, which stood in the center of a large, green meadow, through which the road ran,
was built in two parts, of hewn logs, with one great stone chimney on the outside, protected
by an overshot in the roof, but that one in which the log-heap burned that night was inside.
One end had been an Indian fort when Gen. Braddock tried to reach Fort Pitt by that road. The
other end and stone barn had been built by its present proprietor. A log mill, the oldest in
Allegheny county, stood below the barn, and to it the French soldiers had come for meal from
Fort Duquesne. The stream crossed by the bridge was the mill-race, and the waterfall made by
the waste-gate. It was the homestead of a soldier of the Revolution, one of Washington's lieutenants--the
old man we had seen. The woman was his second wife. They had a numerous family, and an unpronounceable
name.

At home I learned that, on account of a cough, I had been the object of a generous conspiracy
between mother and Mrs. Olever, and had been brought home because I was worse. Our doctors
said I was in the first stage of consumption, that Elizabeth was to reach that point early
in life, and that our only hope lay in plenty of calomel. Mother had lost her husband and four
vigorous children; there had been no lack of calomel, and now, when death again threatened,
she resolved to conduct the defense on some new plan.

She had gained legal possession of our village home, and moved to it. Our lot was large and
well supplied with choice fruit, and the place seemed a paradise after our starved lives in
the smoky city. My apple tree still grew at the east end of the house. There was a willow tree
mother had planted, which now swept the ground with its long, graceful branches. There were
quantities of rose and lilac bushes, a walled spring of delicious water in the cellar, and
a whole world of wealth; but the potato lot looked up in despair--a patch of yellow clay. Mother
put a twelve years' accumulation of coal ashes on it, and thus proved them valuable both as
a fertilizer and a preventive of potato-rot, though at first her project met general opposition.

William did the heavy work and was proud of it. He was in splendid health, for his insubordination
had, from a very early age, saved him from drugging either mental or physical. The lighter
gardening became part of my treatment for consumption. By having me each day lie on the floor
on my back without a pillow, and gentle use of dumb-bells, mother straightened my spine and
developed my chest--my clothes being carefully adapted to its expansion. Dancing was strictly
forbidden by our church, but mother was educated in Ireland and danced beautifully. She had
a class of girls and taught us, and with plenty of fresh air, milk and eggs, effectually disposed
of hereditary consumption in her family. But while attending to us, she must also make a living,
so she bought a stock of goods on credit, opened a store, and soon had a paying business. In
this I was her special assistant. But the work supplied to William did not satisfy the holy
men of the church, who furnished us advice. He still made fire engines, and a brook in a meadow
presented irresistible temptation to water-wheels and machinery. One of his tilt-hammers made
a very good ghost, haunting the meadow and keeping off trespassers. He had a foundry, where
he cast miniature cannon, kettles and curious things, and his rifle-practice was a neighborhood
wonder. He brought water from the cellar, and did other chores which Pennsylvania rules assigned
to women, and when boys ridiculed him, he flogged them, and did it quite as effectually as
he rendered them the same service when they were rude to a girl. He was a universal favorite,
even if he did hate catechism and love cake.

So mother's conscience was worked upon until she bound him to a cabinet maker in the city.
To him, the restraint was unendurable, and he ran away. He came after dark to bid me good-bye,
left love for mother and Elizabeth, and next morning left Pittsburg on a steamboat, going to
that Eldorado of Pittsburg boys--"down the river."

For some time letters came regularly from him, and he was happy and prosperous. Then they ceased,
and after two years of agonizing suspense, we heard that he had died of yellow fever in New
Orleans. To us, this was dreadful, irreparable, and was wholly due to that iron-bedstead piety
which permits no natural growth, but sets down all human loves and longings as of Satanic origin.

Soon after our removal to the village, grandfather's estate was advertised for sheriff's sale.
Mother had the proceedings stayed, the executors dismissed, and took out letters of administration,
which made it necessary for her to spend some portion of every month in the city. This threw
the entire charge of house and store on me. As soon, therefore, as possible, she sent me to
the city to school, where I realized my aspiration of studying ancient history and the piano,
and devoured the contents of the text-book of natural philosophy with an avidity I had never
known for a novel.

In April, 1830, I began to teach school, the only one in Wilkinsburg, and had plenty of pupils,
young men and women, boys and girls, at two dollars and one dollar and a half a term. Taught
seven hours a day, and Saturday forenoon, which was devoted to Bible reading and catechism.
I was the first, I believe, in Allegheny Co., to teach children without beating them. I abolished
corporeal punishment entirely, and was so successful that boys, ungovernable at home, were
altogether tractable. This life was perfectly congenial, and I followed it for nearly six years.
Mother started a Sabbath School, the only one in the village, and this, too, we continued for
years.

One of the pupils was a girl of thirteen, daughter of a well-to-do farmer, who lived within
a mile of the village. Her father had been converted at a camp-meeting and was a devout Methodist.
The first day she attended, I asked her the question:

"How many Gods are there?"

She thought a moment, and then said, with an air of satisfaction:

"Five."

I was shocked, and answered in the language of the Catechism:

"O Margaret! 'There is but one only living and true God.'"

She hung her head, then nodded it, and with the emphasis of a judge who had weighed all the
evidence, said:

"I am sure I ha' hearn tell o' more nur one of em."

A young theological student came sometimes to stay over Sabbath and assist in the school. He
led in family worship, and had quite a nice time, until one evening he read a chapter from
the song of songs which was Solomon's, when I bethought me that he was very much afraid of
toads. I began to cultivate those bright-eyed creatures, so that it always seemed probable
I had one in my pocket or sleeve. The path of that good young man became thorny until it diverged
from mine.

I was almost fifteen, when I overheard a young lady say I was growing pretty. I went to my
mirror and spent some moments in unalloyed happiness and triumph. Then I thought, "Pretty face,
the worms will eat you. All the prettiest girls I know are silly, but you shall never make
a fool of me. Helen's beauty ruined Troy. Cleopatra was a wretch. So if you are pretty, I will
be master, remember that."

CHAPTER VI.

JOIN CHURCH AND MAKE NEW ENDEAVORS TO KEEP SABBATH.--AGE, 15.

In the year 1800, the Covenanter church of this country said in her synod: "Slavery and Christianity
are incompatible," and never relaxed her discipline which forbade fellowship with slave-holders--so
I was brought up an abolitionist. I was still a child when I went through Wilkins' township
collecting names to a petition for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. Here,
in a strictly orthodox Presbyterian community, I was everywhere met by the objections: "Niggers
have no souls," "The Jews held slaves," "Noah cursed Canaan," and these points I argued from
house to house, occasionally for three years, and made that acquaintance which led to my being
sent for in cases of sickness and death, before I had completed my sixteenth year. In this,
I in some measure took the place long filled by mother, who was often a substitute for doctor
and preacher.

Looking back at her life, I think how little those know of Calvinists who regard them merely
as a class of autocrats, conscious of their own election to glory, and rejoicing in the reprobation
of all others; for I have never known such humble, self-distrustful people as I have found
in that faith. Mother, whose life was full of wisdom and good works, doubted, even to the last,
her own acceptance with God. She and I believed that "a jealous God," who can brook no rivals,
had taken away our loving husband and father; our strong and brave son and brother, because
we loved them too much, and I was brought up to think it a great presumption to assume that
such a worm of the dust as I, could be aught to the Creator but a subject of punishment.

During the spring of 1831, mother said to me:

"Sabbath week is our communion, and I thought you might wish to join the church."

I was startled and without looking up, said:

"Am I old enough?"

"If you feel that the dying command of the Savior, 'do this in remembrance of me' was addressed
to you, you are old enough to obey it."

Not another word was said and the subject was never again broached between us, but here a great
conflict began. That command was given to me, but how could I obey it without eating and drinking
damnation to myself? Was mine a saving faith, or did I, like the devils, believe and tremble?
I had been believing as long as I could remember, but did not seem to grow in the image of God.

The conflict lasted several days. Sleep left me. The heavens were iron and the earth brass.
I turned to Erskine to learn the signs of saving faith, but found only reason to suspect self-deception.
I could not submit to God's will--could not be willing that William should be lost--nay, I
was not willing that any one should be lost. I could not stay in heaven, and know that any
one was enduring endless torments in some other place! I must leave and go to their relief.
It was dreadful that Abraham did not even try to go to poor Dives, or to send some one. My
whole soul flew into open revolt; then oh! the total depravity which could question "the ways
of God to man." I hated Milton. I despised his devils; had a supreme contempt for the "Prince
of the Power of the Air;" did not remember a time when I was afraid of him. God was "my refuge
and my shield, in straits a present aid." If he took care of me, no one else could hurt me;
if he did not, no one else could; and to be accepted by him was all there was or could be worth
caring for; but how should I find this acceptance with my heart full of rebellion?

One afternoon I became unable to think, but a white mist settled down over hell. Even those
contemptible devils were having their tongues cooled with blessed drops of water. The fires
grew dim, and it seemed as if there was to be a rain of grace and mercy in that region of despair.
Then I preferred my petition, that God would write his name upon my forehead, and give me that
"new name" which should mark me as his; that he would bring William into the fold, and do with
me as he would. I would be content to spend my whole life in any labor he should appoint, without
a sign of the approval of God or man, if, in the end, I and mine should be found among those
"who had washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb."

I fell asleep--slept hours--and when the sun was setting, woke in perfect peace. My proposition
had been accepted, and wonderful grace, which had given what I had not dared to ask, assurance
of present acceptance. I should have all the work and privation for which I had bargained--should
be a thistle-digger in the vineyard; should be set to tasks from which other laborers shrank,
but in no trial could I ever be alone, and should at last hear the welcome "well done."

I arose as one from a grave to a joyous resurrection; but kept all these things in my heart.
Personal experiences being altogether between God and the soul, were not considered fit subjects
for conversation, and when I came before the session applying for church, membership, no mention
was made of them, except as a general confession of faith.

Rev. Andrew Black addressed the table at which I sat in my first communion, and said:

"The Lord's Supper has been named the Eucharist, after the oath taken by a Roman soldier, never
to turn his back upon his leader. You, in partaking of these emblems, do solemnly vow that
you will never turn your back upon Christ, but that you will follow him whithersoever he goeth.
Let others do as they will, you are to follow the Lamb, through good and through evil report,
to a palace or to a prison; follow him, even if he should lead you out of the church."

This was in perfect harmony with my private agreement, and no other act of my life has been
so solemn or far-reaching in its consequences, as that ratification of my vow, and it is one
I have least cause to repent.

However, it brought a new phase to an old trouble. How should I follow Christ? I could not
do as he had done. I could not go to meeting every Sabbath, and society every Friday; and if
I did, was that following Christ who never built a meeting-house, or conducted any service
resembling those now held? I read the life of Jonathan Edwards, and settled back into the old
Sabbath-keeping rut. Resolving to do my best, I prayed all week, for grace to keep the next
Sabbath. I rose early that trial-morning, prayed as soon as my eyes were open, read a chapter,
looked out into the beautiful morning, thought about God and prayed--spent so much time praying,
that Elizabeth had breakfast ready when I went down stairs. While I ate it, I held my thoughts
to the work of the day, worshiping God; but many facts and fancies forced themselves in and
disturbed my pious meditations. After breakfast, I went back to my room to continue my labor;
but mother soon came and said:

"Do you intend to let Elizabeth do all the work?"

I dropped my roll of saintship, and went and washed the dishes. Had I been taught that he who
does any honest work serves God and follows Christ, what a world of woe would have been spared me.

CHAPTER VII.

THE DELIVERER OF THE DARK NIGHT.--AGE, 19-21.

Quiltings furnished the principal amusement, and at these I was in requisition, both for my
expertness with the needle, and my skill in laying out work; but as I had no brother to come
for me, I usually went home before the evening frolic, which consisted of plays. Male and female
partners went through the common quadrille figures, keeping time to the music of their own
voices, and making a denouement every few moments by some man kissing some woman, perhaps in
a dark hall, or some woman kissing some man, or some man kissing all the women, or vice versa.
Elders and preachers often looked on in pious approbation, and the church covered these sports
with the mantle of her approval, but was ready to excommunicate any one who should dance. Promiscuous
dancing was the fiery dragon which the church went out to slay. Only its death could save her
from a fit of choler which might be fatal, unless, indeed, the dancing were sanctified by promiscuous
kissing. If men and women danced together without kissing, they were in immediate danger of
eternal damnation; but with plenty of kissing, and rude wrestling to overcome the delicacy
of women who objected to such desecration, the church gave her blessing to the quadrille.

My protest against these plays had given offense, and I chose to avoid them; but one evening
the host begged me to remain, saying he would see that I was not annoyed, and would himself
take me home. The frolic was only begun, when he came and asked permission to introduce a gentleman,
saying: "If you do not treat him well, I will never forgive you."

There was no need of this caution, for he presented a man whose presence made me feel that
I was a very little girl and should have been at home. He was over six feet tall, well formed
and strongly built, with black hair and eyes, a long face, and heavy black whiskers. He was
handsomely dressed, and his manner that of a grave and reverend seignior. A Russian count in
a New York drawing room, then, when counts were few, could not have seemed more foreign than
this man in that village parlor, less than two miles from the place of his birth.

He was the son of the old revolutionary soldier, with the unpronouncable name, who lived in
the beautiful valley. This I knew at once, but did not, for some time, realize that it was
he who rescued us from the black waters on that dark night, carried us to safety and light,
and left us again in darkness. This incident, so much to me, he never could distinguish among
the many times he had "helped Olever and his seminary girls out of scrapes," and he never spoke
of these adventures without that same laugh which I noticed when Father Olever thanked him.

He had elected me as his wife some years before this evening, and had not kept it secret; had
been assured his choice was presumptuous, but came and took possession of his prospective property
with the air of a man who understood his business. I next saw him on horseback, and this man
of giant strength in full suit of black, riding a large spirited black horse, became my "black
knight."

My sister hated him, and my mother doubted him, or rather doubted the propriety of my receiving
visits from him. His family were the leading Methodists of the township; his father had donated
land and built a meeting-house, which took his name, and his house was the headquarters of
traveling preachers. There was a camp-meeting ground on the farm; his mother "lived without
sin," prayed aloud and shouted in meeting, while the income and energy of the family were expended
in propagating a faith which we believed false. A marriage with him would be incongruous and
bring misery to both. These objections he overruled, by saying he was not a member of any church,
would never interfere with my rights of conscience, would take or send me to my meeting when
possible, and expect me to go sometimes with him. He proposed going up the Allegheny to establish
saw-mills, and if I would go into the woods with him, there should be no trouble about religion.
So there seemed no valid objection, and two years after our introduction we were married, on
the 18th of November, 1836.

Then all was changed. I offended him the day after by shedding tears when I left home to go
for a visit to his father's house, and his sister had told him that I cried while dressing
to be married. These offenses he never forgave, and concluded that since I cared so little
for him, he would not leave his friends and go up the Allegheny with me. His services were
indispensable at home, since his brother Samuel had gone into business for himself, and the
next brother William was not seventeen, and could not take charge of the farm and mills. His
mother was ready to take me into the family,--although the house was not large enough to accommodate
us comfortably--the old shop in the yard could be fitted up for a school-room. I could teach
and he could manage the estate.

In this change, he but followed that impulse which led the men of England, centuries ago, to
enact, that "marriage annuls all previous contracts between the parties," and which now leads
men in all civilized countries to preserve such statutes. It is an old adage, "All is fair
in love as in war," but I thought not of general laws, and only felt a private grievance.

By a further change of plan, I was to get religion and preach. Wesley made the great innovation
of calling women to the pulpit, and although it had afterwards been closed to them generally,
there were still women who did preach, while all were urged to take part in public worship.
My husband had been converted after our engagement and shortly before our marriage, and was
quite zealous. He thought me wonderfully wise, and that I might bring souls to Christ if I
only would. I quoted Paul: "Let women keep silence in churches, and learn of their husbands
at home." He replied, "Wives, obey your husbands." He laughed at the thought of my learning
from him and said: "What shall I teach you? Will you come to the mill and let me show you how
to put a log on the carriage?"

It was a very earnest discussion, and the Bible was on both sides; but I followed the lead
of my church, which taught me to be silent. He quoted his preachers, who were in league with
him, to get me to give myself to the Lord, help them save souls, by calling on men everywhere
to repent; but I was obstinate. I would not get religion, would not preach, would not live
in the house with his mother, and stayed with my own. His younger brothers came regularly to
me for lessons with my sister, and I added two idiotic children bound to his sister's husband,
to whose darkened minds I found the key hidden from other teachers. His brothers I adopted
from the first, in place of the one I had lost, and they repaid my love in kind; but books
soon appeared as an entering wedge between their souls and religion, which formed the entire
mental pabulum of the family.

I believe there was not at that time a member of the Pittsburg Conference who was a college
graduate, few who had even a good, common school education, while two of those who preached
in our meetinghouse and were frequent guests in the family, were unable to read.

My husband's father was old and feeble, and had devised his property to his wife, to be divided
at her death between her sons. My husband, as her agent, would come into possession of the
whole, and they thought I might object to the "prophet's chamber;" but it required no worldly
motive to stimulate these fiery zealots to save a sinner from the toils of Calvinism. It is
probable many of them would have laid down his life for his religion, and when they got on
the track of a sinner, they pursued him as eagerly as ever an English parson did a fox, but
it was to save, not to kill. In these hot pursuits, they did not stand on ceremony, and in
my case, found a subject that would not run. My kith and kin had died at the stake, bearing
testimony against popery and prelacy; had fought on those fields where Scotchmen charged in
solid columns, singing psalms; and though I was wax at all other points, I was granite on "The
Solemn League and Covenant." With the convictions of others I did not interfere, but when attacked
would "render a reason." My assailants denounced theological seminaries as "preacher-factories"--informed
me that "neither Dr. Black nor any of his congregation ever had religion," and that only by
getting it could any one be saved. My husband became proud of my defense, and the boys grew
disrespectful to their religious guides. Their mother became anxious about their souls, so
the efforts for my conversion were redoubled.

From the first the preachers disapproved of my being permitted to go to my meeting, and especially
to my husband accompanying me. He refused to go, on the ground that he had not been invited
to commune, and as I sank in the deep waters of affliction, I did so need the pulpit teachings
of my old pastor, which seemed to lift me and set my feet upon a rock. One day I walked the
seven miles and back, when the family carriage went to take two preachers to an appointment;
three horses stood in the old stone barn, and my husband at home with his mother. This gave
great offense as the advertisement of a grievance, and was never repeated.

During all my childhood and youth, I had been spoiled by much love, if love can spoil. I was
non-resistant by nature, and on principle, believed in the power of good. Forbearance, generosity,
helpful service, would, should, must, win my new friends to love me.

Getting me into the house with my mother-in-law, was so important a part of the plan of salvation,
that to effect it, I was left without support or compensation for my services as teacher, tailor,
dress-maker, for my husband's family. He visited me once or twice a week, and ignored my mother's
presence, while she felt that in this, as in any church-joining conflict, only God could help
me, and stood aloof.

To me the sun was darkened, and the moon refused her light. I knew "that jealous God" who claimed
the supreme love of his creatures, was scourging me for making an idol and bowing down before
it--for loving my husband. I knew it was all just and clung to the Almighty arm, with the old
cry, "Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him." To my husband I clung with like tenacity,
and could not admit that my suffering was through any fault of his.

The summer after my marriage, mother went for a long visit to Butler, and left us in possession
of her house. My husband bought a village property, including a wagon-maker's shop, employed
a workman and sent him to board with me. He also made some additions to a dwelling on it, that
we might go there to live, and the workmen boarded with me, while my mother-in-law furnished
provisions and came or sent a daughter to see that I did not waste them. Her reproofs were
in the form of suggestions, and she sought to please me by saying she had "allowed James" to
get certain things for me; but he did not visit me any oftener than when mother was at home,
and when she returned in the autumn, the potatoes were frozen in the ground, the apples on
the trees, and the cow stood starving at the stable door.

Then I learned that I had been expected to secure the fall crops on mother's lot, and this
was not unreasonable, for I had married a Pennsylvania farmer, and their wives and sisters
and daughters did such work often, while the "men folks" pitched horseshoes to work off their
surplus vitality. Lack of strength was no reason why a woman should fail in her duty, for when
one fell at her post, there was always another to take her place.

Up to this time mother had left me to settle my troubles, but now, she told me I must turn
and demand justice; that generosity was more than thrown away; that I never could live with
my husband and bear his neglect and unkindness and that of his family. I must leave him, defend
myself, or die. That I should have been expected to gather apples and dig potatoes, filled
her with indignation. She advised me to stay with her and refuse to see him, but I shuddered
to think it had come to this in one short year, and felt that all would yet be well. So I went
to live in the house he provided for me, his mother furnished my supplies, and he came once
a week to see me.

Here let me say, that in my twenty years of married life, my conflicts were all spiritual;
that there never was a time when my husband's strong right arm would not be tempered to infantile
gentleness to tend me in illness, or when he hesitated to throw himself between me and danger.
Over streams and other places impassible to me, he carried me, but could not understand how
so frail a thing could be so obstinate.

CHAPTER VIII.

FITTING MYSELF INTO MY SPHERE.--AGE, 22, 23.

During all my girlhood I saw no pictures, no art gallery, no studio, but had learned to feel
great contempt for my own efforts at picture-making. A traveling artist stopped in Wilkinsburg
and painted some portraits; we visited his studio, and a new world opened to me. Up to that
time portrait painting had seemed as inaccessible as the moon--a sublimity I no more thought
of reaching than a star; but when I saw a portrait on the easel, a palette of paints and some
brushes, I was at home in a new world, at the head of a long vista of faces which I must paint;
but the new aspiration was another secret to keep.

Bard, the wagon-maker, made me a stretcher, and with a yard of unbleached muslin, some tacks
and white lead, I made a canvas. In the shop were white lead, lampblack, king's yellow and
red lead, with oil and turpentine. I watched Bard mix paints, and concluded I wanted brown.
Years before, I heard of brown umber, so I got umber and some brushes and begun my husband's
portrait. I hid it when he was there or I heard any one coming, and once blistered it badly
trying to dry it before the fire, so that it was a very rough work; but it was a portrait,
a daub, a likeness, and the hand was his hand and no other. The figure was correct, and the
position in the chair, and, from the moment I began it, I felt I had found my vocation.

What did I care for preachers and theological arguments? What matter who sent me my bread,
or whether I had any? What matter for anything, so long as I had a canvas and some paints,
with that long perspective of faces and figures crowding up and begging to be painted. The
face of every one I knew was there, with every line and varying expression, and in each I seemed
to read the inner life in the outer form. Oh, how they plead with me! What graceful lines and
gorgeous colors floated around me! I forgot God, and did not know it; forgot philosophy, and
did not care to remember it; but alas! I forgot to get Bard's dinner, and, although I forgot
to be hungry, I had no reason to suppose he did. He would willingly have gone hungry, rather
than give any one trouble; but I had neglected a duty. Not only once did I do this, but again
and again, the fire went out or the bread ran over in the pans, while I painted and dreamed.

My conscience began to trouble me. Housekeeping was "woman's sphere," although I had never
then heard the words, for no woman had gotten out of it, to be hounded back; but I knew my
place, and scorned to leave it. I tried to think I could paint without neglect of duty. It
did not occur to me that painting was a duty for a married woman! Had the passion seized me
before marriage, no other love could have come between me and art; but I felt that it was too
late, as my life was already devoted to another object--housekeeping.

It was a hard struggle. I tried to compromise, but experience soon deprived me of that hope,
for to paint was to be oblivious of all other things. In my doubt, I met one of those newspaper
paragraphs with which men are wont to pelt women into subjection: "A man does not marry an
artist, but a housekeeper." This fitted my case, and my doom was sealed.

I put away my brushes; resolutely crucified my divine gift, and while it hung writhing on the
cross, spent my best years and powers cooking cabbage. "A servant of servants shall she be,"
must have been spoken of women, not negroes.

Friends have tried to comfort me by the assurance that my life-work has been better done by
the pen, than it could have been with the pencil, but this cannot be. I have never cared for
literary fame; have avoided, rather than sought it; have enjoyed the abuse of the press more
than its praise; have held my pen with a feeling of contempt for its feebleness, and never
could be so occupied with it as to forget a domestic duty, while I have never visited a picture
gallery, but I have bowed in deep repentance for the betrayal of a trust.

Where are the pictures I should have given to the world? Where my record of the wrongs and
outrages of my age; of the sorrows and joys; the trials and triumphs, that should have been
written amid autumn and sunset glories in the eloquent faces and speaking forms which have
everywhere presented themselves, begging to be interpreted? Why have I never put on canvas
one pair of those pleading eyes, in which are garnered the woes of centuries?

Is that Christianity which has so long said to one-half of the race, "Thou shalt not use any
gift of the Creator, if it be not approved by thy brother; and unto man, not God, thou shalt
ever turn and ask, 'What wilt thou have me to do?'"

It was not only my art-love which must be sacrificed to my duty as a wife, but my literary
tastes must go with it. "The husband is the head of the wife." To be head, he must be superior.
An uncultivated husband could not be the superior of a cultivated wife. I knew from the first
that his education had been limited, but thought the defect would be easily remedied as he
had good abilities, but I discovered he had no love for books. His spiritual guides derided
human learning and depended on inspiration. My knowledge stood in the way of my salvation,
and I must be that odious thing--a superior wife--or stop my progress, for to be and appear
were the same thing. I must be the mate of the man I had chosen; and if he would not come to
my level, I must go to his. So I gave up study, and for years did not read one page in any
book save the Bible. My religions convictions I could not change, but all other differences
should disappear.

Mother moved to the city in the spring of 1838, and my health was rapidly failing. I had rebelled
against my mother-in-law, returned her supplies, and refused to receive anything from her.
This brought on a fearful crisis, in which my husband threatened suicide; but I was firm, and
he concluded to rent the mills and take me away. This he did. His father lived but a few months,
and died on the second anniversary of our marriage. He lies buried in the ground he donated
as "God's acre," with only this inscription at his head: "John Swisshelm, aged 86." No sign
that he was one of the world's heroes--yet, when our revolution broke out, his parents had
but two children. The oldest enlisted and was killed, when John caught up his rifle, took his
place, and kept it until the close of the war. He spent the winter in Valley Forge, and once,
in the darkest time, discovered Washington on his knees in a lonely thicket, praying aloud
for his country. This gave him hope, when hope was well-nigh dead, and he followed his commander
across the Jerseys, one of the two thousand who wrote in blood, from their shoeless feet, their
protest against British rule on the soil they thus consecrated to Freedom.

CHAPTER IX.

HABITATIONS OF HORRID CRUELTY.--AGE, 23, 24.

On the 6th of June, 1838, the white frost lay on the west side of Pittsburg roofs as we steamed
away from her wharf, bound for Louisville, where my husband proposed going into a business
already established by his brother Samuel.

On the boat, all the way down the river, the general topic of conversation was the contrast
between the desolate slave-cursed shores of Kentucky, and the smiling plenty of the opposite
bank; but Louisville was largely settled by Northern people, and was to prove an oasis in the
desert of slavery.

It lay at the head of the Falls of the Ohio, and the general government had lately expended
large sums in building a canal around them. Henry Clay was in the zenith of his power, slavery
held possession of the national resources, Louisville might count on favors, and she was to
be Queen City of the West. There was an aspiring little place which fancied itself a rival,
a little boat-landing, without natural advantages, called Cincinnati, where they killed hogs;
but it was quite absurd to think of her competing with the great metropolis at the head of
the canal.

I was quite surprised to find there were a good many houses and folks in Cincinnati; but our
boat did not stop long, and we soon reached our Eldorado. Before we effected a landing at the
crowded wharf, I fell to wondering if a Pittsburg drayman could take a Louisville dray, its
load, its three horses and ragged driver, pile them on his dray, and with his one horse take
them to their destination--and I thought he could.

Samuel met us, and as we went in a hack to the boarding place he had engaged. I wondered what
had happened that so many men were off work in the middle of the forenoon. Who or what could
they be, those fellows in shining black broadcloth, each with a stove-pipe hat on the side
of his head, his thumbs in the armholes of a satin vest, displaying a wonderful glimmer of
gold chain and diamond stud, balancing himself first on his heels and then on his toes, as
he rolled a cigar from one side of his mouth to the other? How did they come to be standing
around on corners and doorsteps by the hundred, like crows on a cornfield fence?

It was some time before I learned that this was the advance guard of a great army of woman-whippers,
which stretched away back to the Atlantic, and around the shores of the Gulf of Mexico, and
that they were out on duty as a staring brigade, whose business it was to insult every woman
who ventured on the street without a male protector, by a stare so lascivious as could not
be imagined on American free soil. I learned that they all lived, in whole or in part, by the
sale of their own children, and the labor of the mothers extorted by the lash. I came to know
one hoary-haired veteran, whose entire support came from the natural increase and wages of
nineteen women, one of whom, a girl of eighteen, lived with him in a fashionable boarding-house,
waited on him at table, slept in his room, and of whose yearly wages one hundred and seventy-five
dollars were credited on his board bill.

I learned that none of the shapely hands displayed on the black vests, had ever used other
implement of toil than a pistol, bowie-knife or slave-whip; that any other tool would ruin
the reputation of the owner of the taper digits; but they did not lose caste by horsewhipping
the old mammys from whose bosoms they had drawn life in infancy.

Our boarding-house was on Walnut street, one block west of the theatre, and looked toward the
river. On the opposite side of the street stood a two-story brick house, always closed except
when a negress opened and dusted the rooms. I never saw sadness or sorrow until I saw that
face; and it did not appear except about her work, or when she emerged from a side gate to
call in two mulatto children, who sometimes came out on the pavement.

This house belonged to a Northern "mudsill," who kept a grocery, and owned the woman, who was
the mother of five children, of whom he was the father. The older two he had sold, one at a
time, as they became saleable or got in his way. On the sale of the first, the mother "took
on so that he was obliged to flog her almost to death before she gave up." But he had made
her understand that their children were to be sold, at his convenience, and that he "would
not have more than three little niggers about the house at one time."

After that first lesson she had been "reasonable."

Our hostess, a Kentucky lady, used to lament the loss of two boys--"two of the beautifulest boys!"

They were the sons of her bachelor uncle, who had had a passion for Liza, one of his father's
slaves, a tall, handsome quadroon, who rejected his suit and was in love with Jo, a fellow
slave. To punish both, the young master had Jo tied up and lashed until he fainted, while Liza
was held so that she must witness the torture, until insensibility came to her relief. This
was done three times, when Jo was sold, and Liza herself bound to the whipping-post, and lashed
until she yielded, and became the mother of those two beautiful boys.

"But," added her biographer, "she never smiled after Jo was sold, took consumption and died
when her youngest boy was two months old. They were the beautifulest boys I ever laid eyes
on, and uncle sot great store by them. He couldn't bear to have them out of his sight, and
always said he would give them to me. He would have done it, I know, if he had made a will;
but he took sick sudden, raving crazy, and never got his senses for one minute. It often took
three men to hold him on the bed. He thought he saw Jo and Liza, and died cursing and raving."

She paused to wipe away a tear, and added: "The boys were sold down South. Maybe your way,
up North, is best, after all. I never knew a cruel master die happy. They are sure to be killed,
or die dreadful!"

She had an old, rheumatic cook, Martha, who seldom left her basement kitchen, except when she
went to her Baptist meeting, but for hours and hours she crooned heart-breaking melodies of
that hope within her, of a better and a happier world.

She had a severe attack of acute inflammation of the eyelids, which forcibly closed her eyes,
and kept them closed; then she refused to work.

Her wages, one hundred and seventy-five dollars a year, were paid to her owner, a woman, and
these went on; so her employer sent for her owner, and I, as an abolitionist, was summoned
to the conference, that I might learn to pity the sorrows of mistresses, and understand the
deceitfulness of slaves.

The injured owner sat in the shaded parlor, in a blue-black satin dress, that might almost
have stood upright without assistance from the flesh or bones inside; with the dress was combined
a mass of lace and jewelry that represented a large amount of money, and the mass as it sat
there, and as I recall it, has made costly attire odious.

This bedizzoned martyr, this costumer's advertisement, sat and fanned as she recounted her
grievances. Her entire allowance for personal expenses, was the wages of nine women, and her
husband would not give her another dollar. They, knowing her necessities, were so ungrateful!--nobody
could think how ungrateful; but in all her sorrows, Martha was her crowning grief. She had
had two husbands, and had behaved so badly when the first was sold. Then, every time one of
her thirteen children were disposed of, she "did take on so;" nobody could imagine "how she
took on!"

Once, the gentle mistress had been compelled to send her to the workhouse and have her whipped
by the constable; and that cost fifty cents; but really, this martyr and her husband had grown
weary of flogging Martha. One hated so to send a servant to the public whipping-post; it looked
like cruelty--did cruelty lacerate the feelings of refined people, and it was so ungrateful
in Martha, and all the rest of them, to torture this fine lady in this rough way.

As to Martha's ingratitude, there could be no doubt; for, to this, our hostess testified, and
called me to witness, that she had sent her a cup of tea every day since she had complained
of being sick; yes, "a cup of tea with sugar in it," and yet the old wretch had not gone to work.

When they had finished the recital of their grievances they came down to business. The owner
would remit two week's wages; after that it was the business of the employer to pay them, and
see that they were earned. If it were necessary now to send Martha to the whipping-post, the
lady in satin would pay the fifty cents; but for any future flogging, the lady in lawn must
be responsible to the City of Louisville.

We adjourned to the kitchen where old Martha stood before her judge, clutching the table with
her hard hands, trembling in every limb, her eyelids swollen out like puff-balls, and offensive
from neglect, her white curls making a border to her red turban, receiving her sentence without
a word. As a sheep before her shearers she was dumb, opening not her mouth. Those wrinkled,
old lips, from which I had heard few sounds, save those of prayer and praise, were closed by
a cruelty perfectly incomprehensible in its unconscious debasement. Our hostess was a leading
member of the Fourth St. M.E. Church, the other feminine fiend a Presbyterian.

I promised the Lord then and there, that for life, it should be my work to bring "deliverance
to the captive, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound," but all I could do for
Martha, was to give her such medical treatment as would restore her sight and save her from
the whipping-post, and this I did.

While I lived on that dark and bloody ground, a man was beaten to death in an open shed, on
the corner of two public streets, where the sound of the blows, the curses of his two tormentors,
and his shrieks and unavailing prayers for mercy were continued a whole forenoon, and sent
the complaining air shuddering to the ears of thousands, not one of whom offered any help.

A brown-haired girl, Maria, the educated, refined daughter of a Kentucky farmer, was lashed
by her brutal purchaser, once, and again and again for chastity, where hundreds who heard the
blows and shrieks knew the cause. From that house she was taken to the work-house and scourged
by the public executioner, backed by the whole force of the United States government. Oh! God!
Can this nation ever, ever be forgiven for the blood of her innocent children?

Passing a crowded church on a Sabbath afternoon, I stepped in, when the preacher was descanting
on the power of religion, and, in illustration, he told of two wicked young men in that state,
who were drinking and gambling on Sunday morning, when one said:

"I can lick the religion out of any nigger."

The other would bet one hundred dollars that he had a nigger out of whom the religion could
not be licked. The bet was taken and they adjourned to a yard. This unique nigger was summoned,
and proved to be a poor old man. His master informed him he had a bet on him, and the other
party commanded him to "curse Jesus?" on pain of being flogged until he did. The old saint
dropped on his knees before his master, and plead for mercy, saying:

"Massa! Massa! I cannot curse Jesus! Jesus die for me! He die for you, Massa. I no curse him;
I no curse Jesus!"

The master began to repent. In babyhood he had ridden on those old bowed shoulders, then stalwart
and firm, and he proposed to draw the bet, but the other wanted sport and would win the money.
Oh! the horrible details that that preacher gave of that day's sport, of the lashings, and
faintings, and revivals, with washes of strong brine, the prayers for mercy, and the recurring
moan!

"I no curse Jesus, Massa! I no curse Jesus; Jesus die for me, Massa; I die for Jesus?"

As the sun went down Jesus took him, and his merciful master had sold a worthless nigger for
one hundred dollars. But, the only point which the preacher made, was that one in favor of
religion. When it could so support a nigger, what might it not do for one of the superior race?

For months I saw every day a boy who could not have been more than ten years old, but who seemed
to be eight, and who wore an iron collar with four projections, and a hoop or bail up over
his head. This had been put on him for the crime of running away; and was kept on to prevent
a repetition of that crime. The master, who thus secured his property, was an Elder in the
Second Presbyterian church, and led the choir.

The principal Baptist preacher owned and hired out one hundred slaves; took them himself to
the public mart, and acted as auctioneer in disposing of their services. The time at which
this was done, was in the Christmas holidays, or rather the last day of the year, when the
slaves' annual week of respite ended.

A female member of the Fourth St. Methodist church was threatened with discipline, for nailing
her cook to the fence by the ear with a ten-penny nail. The preacher in charge witnessed the
punishment from a back window of his residence. Hundreds of others witnessed it, called by
the shrieks of the victim; and his reverence protested, on the ground that such scenes were
calculated to injure the church.

CHAPTER X.

KENTUCKY CONTEMPT FOR LABOR.--AGE, 23, 24.

To a white woman in Louisville, work was a dire disgrace, and one Sabbath four of us sat suffering
from thirst, with the pump across the street, when I learned that for me to go for a pitcher
of water, would be so great a disgrace to the house as to demand my instant expulsion.

I grew tired doing nothing. My husband's business did not prosper, and I went to a dressmaker
and asked for work. She was a New England woman, and after some shrewd questions, exclaimed:

"My dear child, go home to your mother! What does your husband mean? Does he not know you would
be insulted at every step if you work for a living? Go home--go home to your mother!"

I was homesick, and the kindness of the voice and eyes made me cry. I told her I could not
leave my husband.

"Then let him support you, or send you home until he can! I have seen too many like you go
to destruction here. Go home."

I said that I could never go to destruction, but she interrupted me:

"You know nothing about it. You are a mere baby. They all thought as you do. Go home to your
mother!"

"But I never can go to destruction! No evil can befall me, for He that keepeth Israel slumbers
not nor sleeps."

She concluded to give me work, but said:

"I will send it by a servant. Don't you come here."

I never thrust my anti-slavery opinions on any one, but every Southerner inquired concerning
them, and I gave true answers. There were many boarders in the house, and one evening when
there were eighteen men in the parlor, these questions brought on a warm discussion, when one said:

"You had better take care how you talk, or we will give you a coat of tar and feathers."

I agreed to accept such gratuitous suit, and a Mississippi planter, who seemed to realize the
situation, said gently:

"Indeed, madam, it is not safe for you to talk as you do."

"When reminded of constitutional guarantees for freedom of speech, and his enjoyment of it
in my native State, he replied:

"There is no danger in Pennsylvania from freedom of speech, but if people were allowed to talk
as you do here, it would overthrow our institutions."

There were mobs in the air. The mayor closed a Sunday-school, on the ground that in it slaves
were taught to read. The teacher, a New England woman, denied the charge, and claimed that
only free children had been taught, while slaves were orally instructed to obey their masters,
as good Presbyterians, who hoped to escape the worm that never dies. Her defense failed, but
seemed to establish the right of free colored people to a knowledge of the alphabet, but there
was no school for them, and I thought to establish one.

Jerry Wade, the Gault House barber, was a mulatto, who had bought himself and family, and acquired
considerable real estate. In the back of one of his houses, lived his son with a wife and little
daughter. We rented the front, and mother sent me furniture. This was highly genteel, for it
gave us the appearance of owning slaves, and Olivia, young Wade's wife, represented herself
as my slave, to bring her and her child security. As a free negro, she labored under many disadvantages,
so begged me to claim her.

In this house I started my school, and there were no lack of pupils whose parents were able
and willing to pay for their tuition, but ruffians stood before the house and hooted at the
"nigger school." Threatening letters were sent me, and Wade was notified that his house would
be burned or sacked, if he permitted its use for such purpose. In one day my pupils were all
withdrawn.

After this, I began to make corsets. It was a joy to fit the superb forms of Kentucky women,
and my art-love found employment in it, but my husband did not succeed, and went down the river.

A man came to see if I could give work to his half-sister, for whose support he could not fully
provide. She was a Fitzhugh,--a first Virginia family. Her father had died, leaving a bankrupt
estate. She had learned dressmaking, and had come with him to Louisville to find work, but
she was young and beautiful, and he dare not put her into a shop, but thought I might protect
her, so she came to live with me.

One evening an old and wealthy citizen called about work I was doing for his wife, became interested
in me, as a stranger who had seen little of Louisville, and tendered the use of his theatre-box
and carriage to the young lady and myself. I declined, with thanks. When he had taken leave,
Miss Fitzhugh sprang to her feet, and with burning cheeks and flashing eyes, demanded to know
if I knew that that man had insulted us both. I did not know, but she did, and would tell Edward,
who should cowhide him publicly. I told her that if Edward attempted that, he would probably
lose his life, and we would certainly be dragged into a police court. Even if we had been insulted,
it only proved that the old man thought we were like himself--that we were told in the Psalms
that wicked men thought God was like themselves, and did approve their sin, and he did not
have them cowhided. After a moment's reflection she sat down, exclaiming:

"Well, you are the strangest woman I ever did see!"

We never again saw the man, and I hope the incident helped the honest Edward in his loving
task of protecting the fiery Fitzhugh.

My husband's trip down the river was a failure, and he went back home. Remembering he had heard
me say I could do so much better at corset-making if I could buy goods at wholesale, he sold
his Wilkinsburg property and turned the proceeds into dry goods. To me this seemed very unwise,
but I tried to make the best of it, and we took a business house on Fourth street. I cut and
fitted dresses, and with a tape-line could take a measure from which I could make a perfect
fit without trying on. I soon had more work than I could do, and took two new girls, but the
goods were dead stock. My Husband was out of employment, and tried to assist in my business.
He was out most of the day, and in the evening wanted to retire early. I was busy all day,
and could not go out alone after dark, so came to be a prisoner.

One warm evening I was walking back and forth in front of our house, though I knew it a great
risk, when a man overtook me, cleared his throat as if to speak, and passed on to the lamp-post,
which had made one limit of my walk. I did not shorten my path, and when I came up to the post
he again cleared his throat as if to speak, and next time stepped out, lifted his hat, and
remarked:

"A very pleasant evening, Miss."

I stopped, looked at him, and said:

"It is a very pleasant evening; had you not better walk on and enjoy it?"

He bowed low, and answered:

"I beg your pardon, madam. I was mistaken."

"Pardon for what, sir? It is a very pleasant evening; please to pass on."

He did, and I walked till I was tired, thinking of all the sacrifices I had made to be my husband's
housekeeper and keep myself in woman's sphere, and here was the outcome! I was degrading him
from his position of bread-winner. If it was my duty to keep his house, it must be his to find
me a house to keep, and this life must end. I would go with him to the poorest cabin, but he
must be the head of the matrimonial firm. He should not be my business assistant. I would not
be captain with him for lieutenant. How to extricate myself I did not see, but extricated I
would be.

We needed a servant. A Kentucky "gentleman," full six feet three, with broad shoulders and
heavy black whiskers, came to say: "I have a woman I can let you have! A good cook, good washah
and ionah, fust rate housekeepah! I'll let you have ah for two hundred dollahs a yeah; but
I'll tell you honest, you'll have to hosswhipah youahself about twice a week, for that wife
of youahs could nevah do anything with ah."

While he talked I looked. His suit was of the finest black broadcloth, satin vest, a pompous
display of chain, seals, studs and rings, his beaver on the back of his head, his thumbs in
the arms of his vest, and feet spread like the Collossus of Rhodes.

This new use for Pennsylvania muscle seemed to strike my husband as infinitely amusing, for
he burst out laughing, and informed the "gentleman" that he did not follow the profession of
whipping women, and must decline his offer. But I wanted to be back on free soil, out of an
atmosphere which killed all manhood, and furnished women-whippers as a substitute for men.

CHAPTER XI.

REBELLION.--Age, 24.

During the late spring and early summer, my letters from home spoke often of mother's failing
health, and in July one came from her saying her disease had been pronounced cancer, and bidding
me come to her. The same mail brought a letter from Dr. Joseph Gazzam, telling me she was certainly
on her death-bed, and adding: "Let nothing prevent your coming to your mother at once."

I was hurt by this call. Was I such a monster that this old family friend thought it necessary
to urge me to go to my dying mother? Stunned and stupified with grief, I packed my trunk.

My husband came in at noon, and I handed him the letters. He read them and expressed surprise
and sorrow, and I told him to hurry to the wharf and see when the first boat started. He thought
I should not go until I heard again. It might not be so bad. Then, after reflecting, said,
why go at all, if there was no hope? Of what use could I be? If there was hope, he would agree
to my going, but as there was none, he must object. In fact, he did not see how I could think
of leaving him with those goods on his hands. How could I be so ready to drop all and not think
of the consequences, for what could he do with that stock of dry goods. My mother pretended
to be a Christian, but would take me away from my duty. I, too, read the Bible, but paid little
heed to its teachings.

While he continued his comments, I buried my head in pillows, saying, "Lord what wilt thou
have me to do?"

Milton epitomized Paul when he made Eve say to Adam, "Be God thy law, thou mine;" but was that
the mind and will of God? Had he transferred his claim to the obedience of half the human family?
Was every husband God to his wife? Would wives appear in the general judgment at all, or if
they did, would they hand in a schedule of marital commands?

If the passage meant anything it meant this: One might as well try to be, and not to be, at
the same time, as own allegiance to God and the same allegiance to man. I was either God's
subject or I was not. If I was not, I owed him no obedience. Christ as head of the church was
her absolute lawgiver, and thus saith the Lord, was all she dare demand. Was I to obey my husband
in that way? If so, I had no business with the moral law or any other law, save his commands.
Christian England had taken this view, and enacted that a wife should not be punished for any
crime committed by command, or in presence of her husband, "because, being altogether subject
to him, she had no will of her own;" but this position was soon abandoned, and this passage
stamped as spurious. Every Christian church had so stamped it, for all encouraged wives to
join their communion with or without the consent of their husbands. Thousands of female martyrs
had sealed their testimony with their blood, opposing the authority of their husbands, and
had been honored by the church. As for me, I must take that passage alone for my Bible, or
expunge it.

Then and there I cast it from me forever, as being no part of divine law, and thus unconsciously
took the first step in breaking through a faith in plenary inspiration.

I next turned to the book in general for guidance: "Wives, obey your husbands;" "Children obey
your parents;" "Honor thy father and thy mother." What a labyrinth of irreconcilable contradictions!
God, in nature, spoke with no uncertain sound, "Go home to your mother," and my choice was
made while my husband talked.

I said that if he did not see about a boat I would. When he told me that he had a legal right
to detain me, and would exercise it, I assured him the attempt would be as dangerous as useless,
for I was going to Pittsburg.

He went out, promising to engage my passage, but staid so long that I went to the wharf, where
respectable women were not seen alone, saw a boat with a flag out for Pittsburg, engaged a
berth, and so left Louisville.

CHAPTER XII.

THE VALLEY OF THE SHADOW OF DEATH.--AGE, 24, 25.

Mother was suffering when I reached her, as I had not dreamed of. After a consultation, Drs.
Gazzam and Fahnestock thought she could not live more than four weeks; but Spear said she might
linger three months. This blanched the cheek of each one. Three months of such unremitting
pain, steadily on the increase, was appalling; but mother faced the prospect without a murmur,
willing to bear by God's grace what He should inflict, and to wait His good time for deliverance.
I was filled with self-reproach, for I should have been with her months before.

In a few days my mother-in-law and one of her daughters came to see how long I proposed to
stay, why I had left James with the goods, and when I would go and take charge of them. They
had had a letter from him, and he was in great trouble. She was gentle and grave--inquired
minutely about our nursing, but thought it expensive--dwelt at length on the folly of spending
time and money in caring for the sick when recovery was impossible. Mother could not see them,
and they were offended, for they proposed helping to take care of her, that I might return
to my duty.

Some time after the visit of my mother-in-law, her son-in-law--who was a class-leader and a
man of prominence in the community--came with solemn aspect, took my hand, sighed, and said:

"I heard you had left James with the goods." Here he sighed again, wagged his head, and added:

"But I couldn't believe it!" and without another word turned and walked away.

They chose to regard mother's illness as a personal grievance. "The way of the transgressor
is hard;" and she, having sinned against the saints, must bear her iniquity, and thus suffer
the just reward of her deeds.

I had frequent letters from my husband, and he was waiting on the wharf, watching every boat
for my appearance. I told him before leaving Louisville, that I never would return--never again
would try to live in a slave State, and advised him to sell the goods at auction, and with
the money start a sawmill up the Allegheny river, and I would go to him. This advice he resented.
At length he grew tired waiting, and came for me. It is neither possible nor necessary here
to describe the trouble which ensued, but I would not nor did not leave mother, and she at
last remembered the protection to which she was entitled by the city government.

With all mother's courage, her moans were heartbreaking. No opiate then known could bring one
half-hour of any sleep in which they ceased, and in her waking hours the burden of her woe
found vent in a low refrain:

"My Father! is it not enough?"

Our principal care was to guard her from noise. The click of a knife or spoon on a plate or
cup in the adjoining room, sent a thrill of pain to her nerve centres. Only two friends were
gentle enough to aid Elizabeth and me in nursing her, as she murmured, constantly: "If my husband
were only here!"

She could bear no voice in reading save Gabriel Adams' and my own. I read to her comforting
passages of Scripture, and said prayers which carried her soul up to the throne, and fell back
on mine in showers of dust and ashes. A great black atheism had fallen on me. There was no
justice on earth, no mercy in heaven.

Her house was in Pittsburg, on Sixth street, a little cottage built for her father and mother
when they were alone. It stood back in a yard, and rough men in passing stepped lightly--children
went elsewhere with their sports--friends tapped on the gate, and we went out to answer inquiries
and receive supplies--prayers were offered for her in churches, societies and families. The
house was a shrine consecrated by suffering and sorrow.

The third month passed, and still she lingered. For seven weeks she took no nourishment but
half a cup of milk, two parts water, per day. Then her appetite returned and her agony increased,
but still with no lament save: "My Father! Is it not enough?"

In the sixth month, January 17th, 1840, relief came. As I knelt for her last words, she said:
"Elizabeth?"

I replied, "She is here, dear mother, what of her?"

Summoning strength she said:

"Let no one separate you!" then looked up and said, "It is enough," and breathed no more.

As her spirit rose, it broke the cloud, and the divine presence fell upon me. The room, the
world was full of peace. She had been caught up out of the storm; and "he who endureth unto
the end shall be saved."

By her request, I and a dear friend, Martha Campbell, prepared her body for burial, and we
wrapped her in a linen winding-sheet, as the body of Christ was buried--no flowers, no decorations;
only stern, solemn Death.

On the last day of father's life he had said to her, "Mary you are human, and must have faults,
but whatever they are I never have seen them."

She had been his widow seventeen years, and by her desire we opened his grave and laid her
body to mingle its dust with his, who had been her only love in the life that now is, and with
whom she expected to spend an eternity.

CHAPTER XIII.

"LABOR--SERVICE OR ACT."--AGE, 25.

Mother's will left everything to trustees, for the use of Elizabeth and myself. She had wished
my husband to join her in a suit for the recovery of father's city property, and he refused,
but signed a deed with me conveying my interest to her. This claim she also willed to her trustees
for my use. He felt himself wronged and became angry, but had one remedy. Being the owner of
my person and services, he had a right to wages for the time spent in nursing mother, and would
file his claim against her executors.

I do not know why I should have been so utterly overwhelmed by this proposal to execute a law
passed by Christian legislators for the government of Christian people--a law which had never
been questioned by any nation, or state, or church, and was in full force all over the world.
Why should the discovery of its existence curdle my blood, stop my heart-beats, and send a
rush of burning shame from forehead to finger-tip? Why should I have blushed that my husband
was a law-abiding citizen of the freest country in the world? Why blame him for acting in harmony
with the canons of every Christian church--aye, of that one of which I was a member, and proud
of its history as a bulwark of civil liberty? Was it any fault of his that "all that she (the
wife) can acquire by her labor-service or act during coverture, belongs to her husband?" Certainly
not. Yet that law made me shrink and think of mother's warning, given so long ago. But marriage
was a life-contract, and God required me to keep it to the end, and said, "When thou passeth
through the fire I will be with thee, and the floods shall not overflow thee." I could not
bear to have a bill sent to mother's executors for my wages, but I could compromise, and I did.

He returned to Louisville, sold the goods, went on a trading-boat, and joined Samuel in Little
Rock. While he was there Samuel died--died a Presbyterian, and left this message for me:

"Tell sister Jane I will meet her in heaven."

This my husband transmitted to me, and was deeply grieved and much softened by his brother's death.

Rev. Isaiah Niblock, of Butler, Pa., a distant relative and very near friend, asked me to take
charge of the Butler Seminary and become his guest. My salary would be twenty-five dollars
a month, and this was munificent. Elizabeth went to Pittsburg to school, and I to Butler, where
my success was complete and I very happy. Among my pupils were two daughters of my old patron,
Judge Braden. One of these, little Nannie, was full of pleasant surprises, and "brought down
the house" during examination, by reciting a country girl's account of her presentation at
court, in which occurs this stanza:

     "And there the King and I were standing
       Face and face together;
     I said, 'How is your Majesty?
       It's mighty pleasant weather!'"

By Nannie's way of giving the lines, they were so fixed on my memory as to be often mingled
with solemn reveries in after years.

Petitions were presented in the Pennsylvania Legislature for the abolition of capital punishment.
Senator Sullivan, chairman of the committee to which they were referred, wrote to Mr. Niblock
for the scripture view. He was ill and requested me to answer, which I did, and Mr. Sullivan
drew liberally from my arguments in his report against granting the petitions. The report was
attacked, and I defended it in several letters published in a Butler paper--anonymously--and
this was my first appearance in print, except a short letter published by George D. Prentiss,
in the Louisville Journal, of which I remember nothing, save the strangeness of seeing my thoughts
in print.

CHAPTER XIV.

SWISSVALE.--AGE, 26, 27.

In April, 1842, my husband took possession of the old home in the valley, and we went there
to live. There were large possibilities in the old house, and we soon had a pleasant residence.
I had the furniture mother left me, and a small income from her estate. The farm I named "Swissvale,"
and such is the name thereof. When the Pennsylvania railroad was built it ran through it, but
not in sight of the house, and the station was called for the homestead.

In the summer of '42 I began to write stories and rhymes, under the nom de plume of "Jennie
Deans," for The Dollar Newspaper and Neal's Saturday Gazette, both of Philadelphia. Reece C.
Fleeson published an anti-slavery weekly in Pittsburg, The Spirit of Liberty, and for this
I wrote abolition articles and essays on woman's right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness. My productions were praised, and my husband was provoked that I did not use my own
name. If I were not ashamed of my articles, why not sign them? He had not given up the idea
that I should preach. Indeed, he held me accountable for most of the evils in the world, on
the ground that I could overthrow them if I would.

Elizabeth was married in June, and went to Ohio. In the autumn, my husband's mother and the
boys came to live with us, to which I made no objection, for "honor thy father and mother"
was spoken as much to him as to me. Maybe I had some spiritual pride in seeing that she turned
from her converted daughters, who were wealthy and lived near, to make a home with unregenerate
me. She liked my housekeeping, and "grandmother," as I always called her, with her white 'kerchiefs
and caps, sitting by the fireplace plying her knitting-needles, became my special pride.

My husband had converted the Louisville goods into one panther, one deer, two bears, and a
roll of "wildcat" money. It was not very good stock with which to begin life on a farm, but
the monotony was relieved by a hooking, kicking cow, and a horse which broke wagons to splinters.

Tom, the panther, was domiciled in the corner made by the old stone chimney and the log wall
of the house, close to the path which led to the garden. The bears were chained in the meadow
behind the house and Billy, the deer, ranged at will. Tom and the bears ate pigs and poultry
so fast that we gave up trying to raise any, while Billy's visits to the garden did not improve
the vegetables. I tried to establish some control over Tom, as a substitute for the fear he
felt for his master, who was not always within call, and who insisted that Tom could be tamed
so as to serve the place of a watchdog. Tom had been quite obedient for Tom, and my terror
for him had abated.

I was interested in the heathen of India, and was president of a society which met in Pittsburg.
Coming home from a meeting, I was thrown out of a buggy and so badly hurt that I was kept in
bed six weeks. When I began to go out on crutches, I started to go to the garden, and forgot
Tom until I heard him growl. He lay flat, with his nose on his paws, his tail on the ground
straight as a ramrod, save a few inches at the tip, which wagged slowly, his eyes green and
fiery, and I not three feet from his head, and just in reach, even if his chain held; but I
had seen it break in one of those springs which he was now preparing to make. There was no
help near! He would spring for my head and shoulders. If these were out of his way, he could
not hold me by my dress which, was a thin muslin wrapper. He was not likely to leap until something
moved, and might lie there sometime. I had heard that a panther will not jump under the gaze
of a human eye, so I looked steadily into his, while I talked to him.

"Tom! Tom! Down sir," and so tried to recall his knowledge of me.

Fortunately my feet were a little in advance of my crutches, and while I looked and talked,
holding my body motionless, I was planting my crutches and throwing my weight on my well foot.
I heard the girl coming out of the house and knew the time had come. With all my strength I
swung myself backward as he made the leap. His hot breath rushed into my face, his fiery eyes
glared close to mine, but his chain was too short. Then I knew I had no mission for taming
panthers. From the first I had feared that he would kill some child, and it was impossible
to prevent them trooping to see him. After my own narrow escape I protested so strongly against
keeping him, that my husband consented to sell him to a menagerie; but those which came were
supplied with panthers, and, although he was a splendid specimen, full nine feet long, no sale
was found for him.

That adventure supplied memory with a picture, which for long years breathed and never was
absent. If it was not before me it was in some corner, and I knew Tom was crouched to spring
on me; his fiery eyes glared, the tip of his tail wagged, and he was waiting, only waiting
for me to move. Often when I woke at night, he was on my bed or in a corner of the room. He
was hidden in fence corners and behind bushes on the roadside, and Mary's little lamb was never
half so faithful as my phantom panther.

My husband could not understand the fear I felt, nor realize the danger of keeping him. He
enjoyed his own mastery over him, and with a box on the side of the head he made Tom whine
and crouch like a spaniel. I have often wondered that in all the accounts I have ever read
of lights with wild animals, no one ever planted a good fist-blow under the ear of his four-legged
antagonist, and so stretch it out stiff to await his leisure in disposing of it.

CHAPTER XV.

WILLOWS BY THE WATER-COURSES.--AGE, 27.

Pennsylvania customs made it unmanly for a man or boy to aid any woman, even mother or wife,
in any hard work with which farms abounded at that time. Dairy work, candle and sausage making
were done by women, and any innovation was met with sneers. I stubbornly refused to yield altogether
to a time-honored code, which required women to perform outdoor drudgery, often while men sat
in the house, and soon had the sympathy of our own boys; for it was often impossible to obtain
any domestic help, though Pittsburg "charitable" people supported hundreds of women in idleness
who might have had homes and wages in farmhouses.

Much of the natural beauty of Swissvale had been destroyed by pioneer improvements, which I
sought in some degree to replace. I loved the woods, and with my little grubbing-hoe transplanted
many wild and beautiful things. This my mother-in-law did not approve, as her love for the
beautiful was satisfied by a flower border in the garden. One day she said:

"James, I would not have that willow in that corner. The roots will get into the race. It is
the real basket willow, and if you cut it into stubs and stick them in the swamp, you can sell
enough willow to buy all your baskets."

I replied:

"Grandmother, you forget that is my tree; I want it to drape that bare knoll. The roots will
run below the bed of the race. The boys can get plenty of stubs at Flemming's."

She only replied by a "humph!" and next day I discovered my tree had been sawed into pieces
and planted in the swamp. Words would not restore it, and I wasted none; but next morning rose
early, and, hatchet in hand, went to the parent tree, climbed on a fence and cut off a limb,
which I dragged home, feeling glad that anything had brought me a walk on such a glorious morning.
I planted the main stock in that corner, then put about a hundred twigs in the swamp for basket
willow. In a few days my second tree disappeared, and I brought another, for a tree there was
indispensable, and I hoped to make my husband see as I did, and thought I had won his consent
to willows. So I went up and down the race and runs, putting in twigs, and thinking of the
"willows by the watercourses," and Israel's lament:

     "By Babel's streams we sat and wept
       When Zion we thought on,
     In midst thereof we hanged our harps
       The willow trees upon."

I was banished from my Zion, never permitted to hear the teachings of my old pastor, for which
my soul panted as the thirsty hart for the water brooks, and in my Babylon I wanted willows.
Some of my plantings were permitted to remain, and Swissvale is now noted for its magnificent
willows; but that main tree was chopped up and burned. In its stead I planted a young chestnut,
where it still stands, a thing of beauty and joy to the boys.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE WATERS GROW DEEP.--AGE, 29.

The plans for my conversion seemed to be aided by our coming to the farm, as I fitted up the
"prophet's chamber" to entertain my husband's friends in his house. There were two preachers
in the circuit. The eldest, a plain, blunt man, began on his first visit to pelt me with problems
about "man-made ministers" and Calvinism. I replied by citing the election of Abraham, Jacob,
and the entire Jewish nation, and by quoting the 8th chapter of Romans, until he seemed to
despair and came no more, for they could not accept my hospitality while I refused their religion.
The other circuit rider was young, handsome and zealous, and was doing a great work in converting
young girls. On his first visit I thought him rude. On his second, he inquired at table:

"Is this the place where they put onions into everything?"

I replied that we used none in tea or coffee. When I joined him and my husband in the parlor,
he waved his hand around the room to point out its decorations and said:

"Brother James tells me that this is all your work. It is quite wonderful, and now, sister,
what a pity it is that you will not turn your attention to religion. You seem to do everything
so well."

He motioned as if to lay his hand on my shoulder. I drew back and said:

"Excuse me, sir, but I am not your sister; and as for your religion you remind me with it of
Doctor Jaynes and his hair tonic."

"How so, sister?"

"Again pardon, but I am not your sister. Doctor Jaynes uses a large part of his column to persuade
us that it is good to have good hair. No one disputes that, and he should prove that his tonic
will bring good hair. So you talk of the importance of religion. No one disputes this, and
it is your business to prove that the nostrum you peddle is religion. I say it is not. It is
a system of will worship. Religion is obedience to God's law. You teach people that they can,
and do, obey this law perfectly, while they do not know it. Your church has no bibles in her
pews, few in her families, and these unread. Preachers and all, not one in twenty can repeat
the ten commandments. You are blind leaders of the blind, and must all fall into the ditch,
destroyed for lack of knowledge!"

That week he proposed to abandon the Swissvale meeting-house, and build one in Wilkinsburg,
giving as a reason the impossibility of keeping up a congregation with me on the farm.

Next Conference sent Rev. Henderson as presiding elder, who brought in a new era. He slept
in the "prophet's chamber," admired my pretty rooms, and said nothing about my getting religion.
The circuit preacher was of the same mind, an earnest, modest, young man, wrestling with English
grammar, who on his first visit sought my help about adverbs, while my mother-in-law looked
on in evident displeasure.

To her this was the dawn of that new day, in which the Methodist church rivals all others in
her institutions of learning. The good time of inspiration was slipping away. What wonder that
she clutched it as Jacob did his angel? There in that house she had for long years been an
oracle to inspired men, and now to see God's Spirit displaced by Kirkham's grammar was rank
infidelity. The Wilkinsburg meeting-house was being built, and that one which had been to her
all that the temple ever was to Solomon, would be left to the owls and bats--her Zion desolate.
Those walls, made sacred by visions of glory and shouts of triumph, would crumble to ruin in
the clinging silence. How could she but think that the influence was evil which could bring
such result?

The new building was consecrated with much ceremony. The two Hendersons staid with, us, and
on Sabbath morning consulted me as to the best way of taking up subscriptions. Mother-in-law
looked on till she could bear it no longer, and said:

"Brother Henderson, if you mean to be in time for love feast, you must not stay fooling there."

Both men sprang to their feet, hurried away and never returned.

General Conference at its session in Baltimore, in 1840, passed the "Black Gag" law, which
forbade colored members of the church to give testimony in church-trials against white members,
in any state where they were forbidden to testily in courts. Four members of the Pittsburg
Conference voted for it, and when my husband returned from the dedication, I learned that three
of them had figured prominently in the exercises, and he had refused to commune on account
of their ministrations.

Everything went smoothly for ten days, when my husband came to our room, where I sat writing,
threw himself on the bed and poured out such a torrent of accusations as I had not dreamed
possible, and of which I refrain from giving any adequate description. I looked up and saw
that he was livid with rage. His words appeared the ravings of a mad man, yet there was method
in them, and no crime in the calendar with which they did not charge me. Butter money was not
accounted for, pickles and preserves missing, things about the house were going to destruction,
the country was full of falsehoods and I had told them all. It was all a blur of sound and
fury, but in it stood out these words:

"You ruined Samuel, and now you are trying to ruin the boys and those two fool preachers. People
know it, too, and I am ashamed to show my face for the talk."

When he seemed to have finished, I asked:

"How long since you learned my real character?"

This spurred him to new wrath, and he exclaimed:

"There now, that's the next of it. You will go and tell that I've abused you. It's not me.
I never suspected your honesty, but my mother, yes, my poor old mother. I would not care, if
you could only behave yourself before my mother!"

I sat leaning my elbows on my table with my head in my hands, and the words "ruined Samuel"
became a refrain. I thought of the danger out of which I had plucked him while in Louisville,
of the force with which I had grappled him with hooks of steel, as he hung on the outer edge
of that precipice of dissipation, while I clung to the Almighty Arm for help. I thought of
the tears and solemnity with which this man had given to me the dying message of that rescued
brother. Earth seemed to be passing away, and to leave no standing room. I was teaching school
in the abandoned meeting-house. It was noon recess and I must hurry or be late. I passed into
the hall and out of the house, with the thought "I cross his threshold now for the last time;"
but I must remain near and finish my school, when I would be present to meet those monstrous
charges before the world. My reveries did not interfere with my school duties, and when they
were over I sat in the old meeting-house or walked its one aisle, with the quiet dead lying
all around me, thinking of that good fight which I should fight, ere I finished my course,
and lay down to rest as they did. But the sun went down, the long twilight drew on the coming
night, and I was homeless. Where should I go?

I thought of the Burkhammers, whose little son lay among the dead beside me. I had tended him
in his last illness and prepared his body for burial. They were German tenants of Judge Wilkins
and to reach their house I must pass through the dark valley over which now lay a new pall.
There were lights in the house as I passed, and Tom rattled his chain and gave forth one of
those shrieks which pierced the air for a mile. I was glad to know that he was not loose, and
that it was only my phantom which crouched in every available place, ready to spring. The bears
bellowed a response to his shriek, but I did not hasten. The stream, so loud and angry on that
night of my first entrance into this vale of tears, was now low, and sang a lullaby of angelic
music as I crossed it on stepping stones. On the hillside it was almost as dark as that night
when Father Olever stopped and felt for the bank with his whip.

The Burkhammers asked no questions, and I went to sleep without giving any account of my strange
visit, but about midnight I awoke myself and the whole family by my sobs. They gathered around
my bed, and I must tell. What I said I do not know, but the old man interrupted me with:

"Oh tamm Jim. You stay here mit us. My old woman und me, we has blenty. We dakes care of you.
Nopody never said nodding bad about you. Everypody likes you, caus you is bleasant mit everypody."

As he talked he drew his sleeve across his eyes, while his wife and daughter comforted me.
I would board there and finish my school, then go to Butler and take the seminary, or a place
in the common school.

I saw no one as I passed my late home next morning. In school the first exercise was bible,
reading verse about with the pupils. The xxv (25) chapter of Matthew came in order, and while
reading its account of the final judgment, I saw as by a revelation why this trouble had been
sent to me, and a great flood of light seemed thrown across my path before me.

Christ's little ones were sick and in prison, and I had not visited them! Old Martha, standing
before her judges, rose up to upbraid me! I was to have followed the Lamb, and had been making
butter to add to an estate larger now than the owner could use. No wonder she thought I stole
the money. I, who had failed to rebuke man-stealing, might steal anything. That meeting-house
which I had been helping to build by entertaining its builders and aiding them about subscriptions,
it and they were a part of a great man-thieving machine. I had been false to every principle
of justice; had been decorating parlors when I should have been tearing down prisons! I, helping
Black Gagites build a church!

     "When thou a thief didst see
       Thou join'st with him in sin."'

Thinking, reaching out for the path to that bastile which I must attack, I went on with my
school duties until my husband walked in and asked why I had not been at home. I was worn with
intense strain, and at the word home, burst into a passion of tears. I told the pupils to take
their books, and leave, there would be no more school, and I could hear them go around on tip-toe
and whisper. Twice a pair of little arms were thrown around me, and the sound of the retreating
footsteps died away when my husband laid his hand all trembling on my head. I threw it off
and begged him to go away, his presence would kill me. He would not go, and I went out into
the woods. He followed, and said he had never charged me with an evil thought, much less an
action, was the most loving of husbands and the most injured in that I had thought he had found
fault with me. He might have spoken a hasty word, but was it right to lay it up against him?
I still begged him to leave--that I should die if he did not. He went, and I crossed the fields
to the house of Thomas Dickson, thinking that from it I could get to the city by the river
road and fly any where.

Mrs. Dickson made me go to bed, as I was able to go no where else, and here my husband's brother-in-law
found me. He had come as peace-maker, and could not think what it all meant; some angry words
of James about his mother, who would now go back to live with him. The Dicksons joined him
with entreaties. If my husband had injured me, he was very, very sorry, was quite overwhelmed
with grief for the pain he had cost me. Then they brought down the lever of scripture and conscience:
"If thy brother offend thee seventy times seven," and I yielded.

My husband came and I went home with him that evening, expecting that my mother-in-law was
installed in her new home on the hill; but she met and kissed me at the door, and I did not
care. Nothing could add to the shudder of going into the house, and she seemed so grieved and
frightened that my heart was touched, and I was sorry for her that we had ever met.

CHAPTER XVII.

MY NAME APPEARS IN PRINT.--AGE, 29.

It was the third morning after my return, that my head would not leave the pillow. Dr. Carothers
came and blistered me from head to feet, and for three weeks I saw no one but my attendants
and my phantom panther. He never left me. There was one corner of the room in which he stayed
most, and sometimes there was not room for his tail to wag, and then he moved forward where
I could not see his head. This troubled me, for then I could not hold him with my eyes. At
night they were two balls of green fire; but they had always been, only when I was well I could
turn my head away, now I could not move it. I knew most of the time it was a shadow from my
brain, but was glad to hear Tom's chain rattle and feel sure it was not his very self.

They nursed me carefully, and I lay thinking of the "little ones sick and in prison." Old Martha
came and plead with me. I saw Liza and Maria under the lash for the crime of chastity, and
myself the accomplice of their brutal masters. I pictured one of them a member of the M.E.
Church, appealing to that church for redress and spurned under the "Black Gag," and I? why
I had been helping men who voted for it to build a meeting-house! What was Peter's denial compared
to mine?

The case arranged itself in my mind. I had writing materials brought, and there, with my head
fast on the pillow, I wrote a hexameter rhyme half a column long, arraigning by name those
Black Gag preachers, painting the scene, and holding them responsible. I signed my initials,
and sent it to Mr. Fleeson, with a note telling him to give my name if it was inquired for.

Our "Spirit" did not come that week; but soon my husband came to my room with a copy of "The
Pittsburg Gazette," in which was an editorial and letter full of pious horror and denunciation
of that article, and giving my name as the author; so that we knew Mr. Fleeson had published
the name in full. This was my first appearance in print over my own signature, and while I
was shocked, my husband was delighted, even though he knew a libel suit was threatened. I soon
went to Pittsburg, saw William Elder and John A. Wills, the only anti-slavery lawyers in the
city. They said the article was actionable, for it had brought those men into contempt. Elder
added: "They are badly hurt, or they would not cry out so loud."

Both tendered their gratuitous services for my defense. In a civil suit we could prove the
truth of the charge, and they could get nothing, for my husband owned no property--everything
belonged to his mother--and my trustees could not be held for my misdeeds. Their action would
doubtless be criminal, and I would probably be imprisoned. I went home and wrote a reply to
the Gazette, which it refused to publish, but it appeared in the Spirit. I reiterated, urged
and intensified my charges against these false priests, until they were dumb about their injuries
and libel suit, but of that original article I never could get a copy. Every one had been sold
and resold, and read to rags, before I knew it was in print.

I continued to write for the "Spirit," but still there did not seem to be anything I could
do for the slave. As soon as I was able to be about the house, I fell into my old round of
drudgery, but with hope and pride shut out of it. Once my burden pressed so that I could not
sleep, and rose at early dawn, and sat looking over the meadow, seeing nothing but a dense,
white fog. I leaned back, closed my eyes and thought how like it was to my own life. When I
looked again, oh, the vision of glory which, met my sight!

The rising sun had sent, through an opening in the woods, a shaft of light, which centred on
a hickory tree that stood alone in the meadow, and was then in the perfection of its golden
autumn glory. It dripped with moisture, blazed and shimmered. The high lights were diamond
tipped, and between them and the deepest shadow was every tint of orange and yellow, mingled
and blended in those inimitable lines of natural foliage. Over it, through it, and around it,
rolled the white fog, in great masses, caressing the earth and hanging from the zenith, like
the veil of the temple of the Most High. All around lay the dark woods, framing in the vision
like serried ranks encompassing a throne, to which great clouds rolled, then lifted and scudded
away, like couriers coming for orders and hastening to obey them.

John's New Jerusalem never was so grand! No square corners and forbidding walls. The gates
were not made of several solid pearls, but of millions of pearletts, strung on threads of love,
offering no barriers through which any soul might not pass. My Patmos had been visited and
I could dwell in it, work and wait; but I would live in it, not lie in a tomb, and once more
I took hold of life.

I organized a society at which we read, had refreshments and danced--yea, broke church rules
and practiced promiscuous dancing minus promiscuous kissing. Of course this was wicked. I roamed
the woods, brought wild flowers and planted them, set out berry bushes, and collected a large
variety of roses and lilies.

CHAPTER XVIII.

MEXICAN WAR.--AGE, 30-32.

James G. Birney was the presidential candidate of the "Liberty Party" in 1844, as he had been
in '40. During the campaign I wrote under my initials for The Spirit of Liberty, and exposing
the weak part of an argument soon came to be my recognized forte. For using my initials I had
two reasons--my dislike and dread of publicity and the fear of embarrassing the Liberty Party
with the sex question. Abolitionists were men of sharp angles. Organizing them was like binding
crooked sticks in a bundle, and one of the questions which divided them was the right of women
to take any prominent part in public affairs.

In that campaign, the great Whig argument against the election of Polk was, that it would bring
on a war with Mexico for the extension of slavery, and when the war came, Whigs and Liberty
Party men vied with each other in their cry of "Our Country, right or wrong!" and rushed into
the army over every barrier set up by their late arguments. The nation was seized by a military
madness, and in the furore, the cause of the slave went to the wall, and The Spirit of Liberty
was discontinued. Its predecessor, The Christian Witness, had failed under the successive management
of William Burleigh, Dr. Elder, and Rev. Edward Smith, three giants in those days, and there
seemed no hope that any anti-slavery paper could be supported in Pittsburg, while all anti-slavery
matter was carefully excluded from both religious and secular press. It was a dark day for
the slave, and it was difficult to see hope for a brighter. To me, it seemed that all was lost,
unless some one were especially called to speak that truth, which alone could make the people
free, but certainly I could not be the messenger.

For years there had ran through my head the words, "Open thy mouth for the dumb, plead the
cause of the poor and needy." The streams sang them, the winds shrieked them, and now a trumpet
sounded them, but the words could not mean more than talking in private. I would not, could
not, believe they meant more, for the Bible in which I read them bid me be silent. My husband
wanted me to lecture as did Abbey Kelley, but I thought this would surely be wrong. The church
had silenced me so effectuately, that even now all my sense of the great need of words could
not induce me to attempt it; but if I could "plead the cause" through the press, I must write.
Even this was dreadful, as I must use my own name, for my articles would certainly be libelous.
If I wrote at all, I must throw myself headlong into the great political maelstrom, and would
of course be swallowed up like a fishing-boat in the great Norway horror which decorated our
school geographies; for no woman had ever done such a thing, and I could never again hold up
my head under the burden of shame and disgrace which would be heaped upon me. But what matter?
I had no children to dishonor; all save one who had ever loved me were dead, and she no longer
needed me, and if the Lord wanted some one to throw into that gulf, no one could be better
spared than I.

The Pittsburg Commercial Journal was the leading Whig paper of western Pennsylvania, Robert
M. Riddle, its editor and proprietor. His mother was a member of our church, and I thought
somewhere in his veins must stir anti-slavery blood. So I wrote a letter to the Journal, which
appeared with an editorial disclaimer, "but the fair writer should have a hearing." This letter
was followed by another, and they continued to appear once or twice a week during several months.

I do not remember whom I attacked first, but from first to last my articles were as direct
and personal as Nathan's reproof to David. Of slavery in the abstract I knew nothing. There
was no abstraction in tying Martha to a whipping-post and scourging her for mourning the loss
of her children. The old Kentucky saint who bore the torture of lash and brine all that bright
Sabbath day, rather than "curse Jesus," knew nothing of the abstraction of slavery, or the
finespun theories of politeness which covered the most revolting crimes with pretty words.
This great nation was engaged in the pusillanimous work of beating poor little Mexico--a giant
whipping a cripple. Every man who went to the war, or induced others to go, I held as the principal
in the whole list of crimes of which slavery was the synonym. Each one seemed to stand before
me, his innermost soul laid bare, and his idiosyncrasy I was sure to strike with sarcasm, ridicule
solemn denunciations, old truths from Bible and history and the opinions of good men. I had
a reckless abandon, for had I not thrown myself into the breach to die there, and would I not
sell my life at its full value?

My style I caught from my crude, rural surroundings, and was familiar to the unlearned, and
I was not surprised to find the letters eagerly read. The Journal announced them the day before
publication, the newsboys cried them, and papers called attention to them, some by daring to
indorse, but more by abusing Mr. Riddle for publishing such unpatriotic and "incendiary rant."
In quoting the strong points, a venal press was constrained to "scatter the living coals of
truth." The name was held to be a nom de plume, for in print it looked so unlike the common
pronunciation of that of one of the oldest families in the county that it was not recognized.
Moreover, it must be a disguise adopted by some man. Wiseacres, said one of the county judges.
No western Pennsylvania woman had ever broken out of woman's sphere. All lived in the very
centre of that sacred enclosure, making fires by which, husbands, brothers and sons sat reading
the news; each one knowing that she had a soul, because the preacher who made his bread and
butter by saving it had been careful to inform her of its existence as preliminary to her knowledge
of the indispensable nature of his services.

But the men whom I ridiculed and attacked knew the hand which, held the mirror up to nature,
and also knew they had a legal remedy, and that to their fines and imprisonment I was as indifferent
as to their opinions. One of these, Hon. Gabriel Adams, had taken me by the hand at father's
funeral, led me to a stranger and introduced me as:

"The child I told you of, but eight years old, her father's nurse and comforter."

He had smoothed my hair and told me not to cry; God would bless me for being a good child.
He was a member of the session when I joined church; his voice in prayer had soothed mother's
hard journey through the dark valley; and now, as mayor of the city, had ordered its illumination
in honor of the battle of Buena Vista, and this, too, on Saturday evening, when the unholy
glorification extended into the Sabbath. Measured by the standards of his profession as an
elder in the church, whose highest judicatory had pronounced slavery and Christianity incompatible;
no one was more valuable than he, and of none was I so unsparing, yet as I wrote, the letter
was blistered with tears; but his oft repeated comment was:

"Jane is right," and he went out of his way to take my hand and say, "You were right."

Samuel Black, a son of my pastor, dropped his place as leader of the Pittsburg bar and rushed
to the war. My comments were thought severe, even for me, yet the first intimation I had that
I had not been cast aside as a monster, came from his sister, who sent me a message that her
father, her husband and herself, approved my criticism. Samuel returned with a colonel's commission,
and one day I was about to pass him without recognition, where he stood on the pavement talking
to two other lawyers, when he stepped before me and held out his hand. I drew back, and he
said: "Is it possible you will not take my hand?"

I looked at it, then into his manly, handsome face, and answered:

"There is blood on it; the blood of women and children slain at their own altars, on their
own hearthstones, that you might spread the glorious American institution of woman-whipping
and baby-stealing."

"Oh," he exclaimed, "This is too bad! I swear to you I never killed a woman or a child."

"Then you did not fight in Mexico, did not help to bombard Buena Vista."

His friends joined him, and insisted that I did the Colonel great wrong, when he looked squarely
into my face and, holding out his hand, said:

"For sake of the old church, for sake of the old man, for sake of the old times, give me your
hand."

I laid it in his, and hurried away, unable to speak, for he was the most eloquent man in Pennsylvania.
He fell at last at the head of his regiment, while fighting in the battle of Fair Oaks, for
that freedom he had betrayed in Mexico.

When Kossuth was on his starring tour in this country, he used to create wild enthusiasm by
"Your own late glorious struggle with Mexico;" but when he reached that climax in his Pittsburg
speech a dead silence fell upon the vast, cheering audience.

The social ostracism I had expected when I stepped into the political arena, proved to be Bunyan
lions. Instead of shame there came such a crop of glory that I thought of pulling down my barns
and building greater, that I might have where to store my new goods. Among the press notices
copied by the Journal was this:

"The Pittsburg Commercial Journal has a new contributor who signs her name 'Jane G. Swisshelm,'
dips her pen in liquid gold, and sands her paper with the down from butterflies' wings."

This troubled me, because it seemed as though I had been working for praise; still the pretty
compliment gratified me.

CHAPTER XIX.

TRAINING SCHOOL.

Paul fought with beasts at Ephesus, as a part of his training for that "good fight" with principalities
and powers and iniquity in high places, and I think that Tom and the bears helped to prepare
me for a long conflict with the southern tiger. I had early come to think that Tom would kill
some of the children who trooped to see him, and that I should be responsible as I alone saw
the danger. This danger I sought to avert, but how to dispose of the beautiful creature I could
not conjecture. There was usually a loaded gun in the house, but I was almost as much afraid
of it as of Tom. All our neighbors were delighted with him and loath to have him killed. I
had once tried to poison a cat but failed, and I would not torture Tom. I wanted Dr. Palmer
to give me a dose for him, but he declined. I tried in vain to get some one to shoot him. Then
I thought of striking the great beast on the head with a hatchet, while he had hold of some
domestic animal. The plan seemed feasible, but I kept my own council and my hatchet, and practiced
with it until I could hit a mark, and thought I could bury the sharp blade in Tom's skull.

One day, all the men were in the meadow making hay, and I alone getting dinner. John McKelvey
came with his great dog, Watch. He went up into the meadow, and Watch staid in the kitchen.
I started to go to the garden for parsley, and found Tom crouched to spring on a cow. He made
the leap, came short of the cow, which ran away bellowing with terror, and Tom had but touched
the ground when Watch sprang upon him. It was a sight for an amphitheatre. The two great creatures
rolled in a struggle, which I knew must be fatal to Watch, but thought he could engage Tom's
attention until I got my hatchet. I ran back for it, took the dinner-horn and blew a blast
that would bring one man, and I did not want a thousand. Then I ran back to the scene of conflict,
horn in one hand, hatchet in the other, and lo! no conflict was there. No Tom! no dog! nothing
but the torn and bloody ground. Horror of horrors, there was a broken chain! Tom loose! Tom
free! Now some one would be murdered. I turned to look, and there on a log not a rod from me,
he stood with head erect and tail drooping, his white throat, jaws and broken chain dripping
with blood, and with my first thankfulness that he had not escaped, came admiration for the
splendid sight: the bold, sweeping curves and graceful motion as he turned his head to listen.
Then I learned panthers went by sound, not scent. I blew another blast on the horn and went
toward him, for I must not lose sight of him. If he attacked me, could I defend myself with
the hatchet? When they found me I would be horrible to look upon, and it would kill Elizabeth.
Will my peas burn? The flies will get into that pitcher of cream. If I am killed, they will
forget to put parsley in the soup. Tom changed his weight from one fore-claw to the other,
and gnashed his teeth. "Here, the king and I are standing face and face together; King Tom,
how is your majesty, it's mighty pleasant weather."

So ran my thoughts in the intense strain of that waiting. It must be full ten minutes before
Tom's master could get to the house after that first blast, and if he did not hear that, must
be too late; but Tom kept his place and my husband rushed by me, carrying the pitchfork with
which he had been at work, and I saw no more until Tom was in his cage. Watch had dragged himself
to his master's feet to die, and I went into the house and finished getting dinner, more than
ever afraid of Tom and more than ever at a loss to know how to get rid of him. Yet he still
lived and rattled his chain by the garden path, but it was a year before our next adventure.

One summer morning at sunrise I was shocked out of sleep by shrieks and shouts and scurrying
feet. I sprang out of bed and rushed into the hall in time to see Tom dash out of it into the
dining-room, mother-in-law and the girl disappearing up stairs and the two hired men through
the barn door. My husband soon followed Tom, who had taken refuge under a large heavy falling-leaf
table, and seemed inclined to stay there. This time his collar was broken and feeling the advantage
he paid no heed to the hand or voice of his quandom master. He would not move, but growled
defiance, and the table protected him from a blow under the ear, so his late master became
utterly nonplussed. If the cage were there, the great beast would probably go into it, but
how get it there? The wealth of India would not have induced one of those men to come out of
that barn, or one of those women to come down those stairs.

Something must be done, and I proposed to hold Tom while my husband brought the cage. He hesitated.
I was not in good fighting trim, for my hair which was long and heavy had fallen loose, but
preparation could avail nothing. The only hope lay in perfect coolness and a steady gaze. I
knelt and took hold of Tom by the back of the neck, talked to him and thought that cage was
long in coming. He shifted his weight and seemed about to get up. This meant escape, and I
held him hard, commanding him to "lie down, sir." He blinked at me, seemed quite indifferent
and altogether comfortable. By and by, the man who had ceased to be master returned without
the cage, utterly demoralized; and was here without a weapon, without a plan. I resigned my
place and told him I would bring a rope. This I intended to do, and also my hatchet.

I had but gotten half way to the front door when there was a scuffle, the loud voice of my
husband, shrieks up stairs, rattling of furniture and crashing of glass, and when I got back
to the room I saw the tip of Tom's tail disappearing. He had gone through the window and taken
the sash with him. He ran into his cage, and that was his last taste of liberty; but he lived
a year after, chained in a corn crib. Every evening in the gloaming he would pace back and
forth, raise his kingly head, utter his piercing shriek, then stop and hark for a response;
walk again, shriek and listen, while the bears would bellow an answer.

The bears, too, were often exciting and interesting. Once I rescued a toddling child when running
towards "big bear," and not more than two feet from where he stood waiting with hungry eyes.
At another time, they both broke loose, on a bitter cold day when I was alone in the house.
I defended myself with fire, meeting them at every door and window with a hickory brand. I
wondered as they went round and round the house, if they would stop in the chimney corner,
and make the acquaintance of Tom; but they took no notice of him, and after they had eaten
several buckets of porridge, they concluded there was nothing in the house they wanted, so
became good natured and went and climbed a tree.

Such schoolmasters must have imparted a flavor of savagery to my Mexican war letters, which
attracted readers as they did visitors.

CHAPTER XX.

RIGHTS OF MARRIED WOMEN.

After mother's death, I prosecuted to a successful issue a suit for the recovery of the house
in which I was born. It stood on Water street, near Market, and our lawyer, Walter Lowrie,
afterwards supreme judge, was to have given us possession of the property on the 1st of July,
1845, which would add eight hundred dollars a year to the income of my sister and myself. But
on the 10th of April, the great fire swept away the building and left a lot bearing ground
rent. Property rose and we had a good offer for the lease. Every one was willing to sell, but
the purchasers concluded that both our husbands must sign the deed. To this no objection was
made, and we met, in William Shinn's office, when my husband refused to sign unless my share
of the purchase money were paid to him.

Mother's will was sacred to me. The money he proposed to put in improvements on the Swissvale
mills. These, in case of his death before his mother, would go to his brothers. I had not even
a dower right in the estate, and already the proceeds of my labor and income from my separate
estate were put upon it. I refused to give him the money, and on my way alone from the lawyer's
office it occurred to me that all the advances made by humanity had been through the pressure
of injustice, and that the screws had been turned on me that I might do something to right
the great wrong which forbade a married woman to own property. So, instead of spending my strength
quarreling with the hand, I would strike for the heart of that great tyranny.

I borrowed books from Judge Wilkins, took legal advice from Colonel Black, studied the laws
under which I lived, and began a series of letters in the Journal on the subject of a married
woman's right to hold property. I said nothing of my own affairs and confined myself to general
principles, until a man in East Liberty furnished me an illustration, and with it I made the
cheeks of men burn with anger and shame.

The case was that of a young German merchant who married the daughter of a wealthy farmer.
Her father gave her a handsome outfit in clothes and furniture. She became ill soon after marriage,
her sister took her place as housekeeper and nursed her till she died, after bequeathing the
clothes and furniture to the sister; but the sorrowing husband held fast to the property and
proposed to turn it into money. The father wanted it as souvenirs of his lost child, and tried
to purchase of him, but the husband raised the price until purchase was impossible, when he
advertised the goods for sale at vendue. The father was an old citizen, highly respected, and
so great contempt and indignation was felt, that at the vendue no one would bid against him,
so the husband's father came forward and ran up the price of the articles. When her riding
dress, hat and whip were held up, there was a general cry of shame. The incident came just
in time for my purpose, so I turned every man's scorn against himself, said to them:

"Gentlemen, these are your laws! Your English ancestors made them! Your fathers brought them
across the water and planted them here, where they flourish like a green bay tree. You robbed
that wife of her right to devise her own property--that husband is simply your agent."

Lucretia Mott and Mary A. Grew, of Philadelphia, labored assiduously for the same object, and
in the session of '47 and '48, the legislature of Pennsylvania secured to married women the
right to hold property.

His standing as a lawyer entitled his opinion to respect, and as he went on to explain the
impossibility of reconciling that statute with, the general tenor of law and precedent, I was
gravely apprehensive. The public mind was not prepared for so great a change; there had been
no general demand for it; lawyers did not know what to do with it, and judges shook their heads.
Indeed, there was so much doubt and opposition that I feared a repeal, until some months after
Col. Kane came to me and said:

"There is a young lawyer from Steubenville named Stanton who would like to be introduced to you."

I was in a gracious mood and consented to receive the young lawyer named Stanton. As he came
into the room and advanced toward me, immediately I felt myself in the presence of a master
mind, of a soul born to command. When introduced he gravely took my hand, and said:

"I called to congratulate you upon the passage of your bill. It is a change I have long desired
to see."

We sat and talked on the subject some time, and my fears vanished into thin air. If this man
had taken that law into favor it would surely stand, and as he predicted be "improved and enlarged."
I have never been so forcibly impressed by any stranger. His compactness of body and soul,
the clear outlines of face and figure, the terseness of his sentences, and firmness yet tenderness
of his voice, were most striking; and as he passed down the long room after taking leave my
thought was:

"Mr. Stanton you have started for some definite point in life, some high goal, and you will
reach it."

This was prophetic, for he walked into the War Department of this nation at a time when it
is probable no other man in it, could have done the work there which freedom demanded in her
hour of peril, for this young man was none other than Edwin M. Stanton, the Ajax of the great
Rebellion.

CHAPTER XI.

THE PITTSBURG SATURDAY VISITER.

After the war, abolitionists began to gather their scattered forces and wanted a Liberty Party
organ. To meet this want, Charles P. Shiras started the Albatross in the fall of '47. He was
the "Iron City Poet," author of "Dimes and Dollars" and "Owe no Man a Dollar." He was of an
old and influential family, had considerable private fortune, was courted and flattered, but
laid himself and gifts on the altar of Liberty. His paper was devoted to the cause of the slave
and of the free laborer, and started with bright prospects. He and Mr. Fleeson urged me to
become a regular contributor, but Mr. Riddle objected, and the Journal had five hundred readers
for every one the Albatross could hope. In the one I reached the ninety and nine unconverted,
while in the other I must talk principally to those who were rooted and grounded in the faith.
So I continued my connection with the Journal until I met James McMasters, a prominent abolitionist,
who said sorrowfully: "Well, the last number of the Albatross will be issued on Thursday."

"Is it possible?"

"Possible and true! That is the end of its first quarter, and Shiras gives it up. In fact we
all do. No use trying to support an abolition paper here."

While he spoke a thought struck me like a lightning flash, and he had but finished speaking,
when I replied:

"I have a great notion to start a paper myself."

He was surprised, but caught at the idea, and said:

"I wish you would. You can make it go if anybody can, and we'll do all we can to help you."

I did not wait to reply, but hurried after my husband, who had passed on, soon overtook and
told him the fate of the Albatross. For this he was sorry, for he always voted a straight abolition
ticket. I repeated to him what I had said to Mr. McMasters, when he said:

"Nonsense!" then reflected a little, and added, "Well, I do not know after all but it would
be a good idea. Riddle makes lots of money out of your letters."

When we had talked about five minutes, he turned to attend to business and I went to the Journal
office. I found Mr. Riddle in his sanctum, and told him the Albatross was dead; the Liberty
Party without an organ, and that I was going to start the Pittsburg Saturday Visitor; the first
copy must be issued Saturday week, so that abolitionists would not have time to be discouraged,
and that I wanted him to print my paper.

He had pushed his chair back from his desk, and sat regarding me in utter amazement while I
stated the case, then said:

"What do you mean? Are you insane? What does your husband say?"

I said my husband approved, the matter was all arranged, I would use my own estate, and if
I lost it, it was nobody's affair.

He begged me to take time to think, to send my husband to him, to consult my friends. Told
me my project was ruinous, that I would lose every dollar I put into it, and begged, entreated
me to take time; but all to no purpose, when a bright idea came to him.

"You would have to furnish a desk for yourself, you see there is but one in this room, and
there is no other place for you. You could not conduct a paper and stay at home, but must spend
a good deal of time here!"

Then I suddenly saw the appalling prospect thus politely presented. I had never heard of any
woman save Mary Kingston working in an office. Her father, a prominent lawyer, had employed
her as his clerk, when his office was in their dwelling, and the situation was remarkable and
very painful; and here was I, looking not more than twenty, proposing to come into the office
of the handsome stranger who sat bending over his desk that he might not see me blush for the
unwomanly intent.

Mr. Riddle was esteemed one of the most elegant and polished gentlemen in the city, with fine
physique and fascinating manners. He was a man of the world, and his prominence had caused
his name to become the target for many an evil report in the bitter personal conflicts of political
life. I looked the facts squarely in the face and thought:

"I have been publicly asserting the right of woman to earn a living as book-keepers, clerks,
sales-women, and now shall I shrink for fear of a danger any one must meet in doing as I advised?
This is my Red Sea. It can be no more terrible than the one which confronted Israel. Duty lies
on the other side, and I am going over! 'Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward.'
The crimson waves of scandal, the white foam of gossip, shall part before me and heap themselves
up as walls on either hand."

So rapidly did this reflection pass through my mind, or so absorbed was I with it, that there
had been no awkward pause when I replied:

"I will get a desk, shall be sorry to be in your way, but there is plenty of room and I can
be quiet."

He seemed greatly relieved, and said cheerfully:

"Oh yes, there is plenty of room, I can have my desk moved forward and take down the shutters,
when there will be plenty of light. Heretofore you have been Jove thundering from a cloud,
but if you will come down to dwell with mortals we must make a place for you."

Taking down the shutters meant exposing the whole interior of the room to view, from a very
public street; and after he had exhausted every plea for time to get ready, he engaged to have
the first copy of the Visiter printed on the day I had set. He objected to my way of spelling
the word, but finding I had Johnson for authority, would arrange the heading to suit. I was
in a state of exaltation all forenoon, and when I met my husband at dinner, the reaction had
set in, and I proposed to countermand the order, when he said emphatically:

"You will do no such thing. The campaign is coming, you have said you will start a paper, and
now if you do not, I will."

The coming advent was announced, but I had no arrangements for securing either advertisements
or subscribers. Josiah King, now proprietor of the Pittsburg Gazette and James H. McClelland
called at the Journal office and subscribed, and with these two supporters, the Pittsburg Saturday
Visiter, entered life. The mechanical difficulty of getting out the first number proved to
be so great that the forms were not on the press at 3 P.M. By five the streets were so blocked
by a waiting crowd, that vehicles went around by other ways, and it was six o'clock, Jan. 20th,
1848, when the first copy was sold at the counter. I was in the editorial room all afternoon,
correcting proof to the last moment, and when there was nothing more I could do, was detained
by the crowd around the doors until it was after eleven.

Editors and reporters were gathered in the sanctum, and Mr. Riddle stood by his desk pointing
out errors to some one who should have prevented them, when I had my wraps on ready to start.
Mr. Fleeson, then a clerk on the Journal, stepped out, hat in hand, and bowing to the proprietor,
said:

"Mr. Riddle, it is your privilege to see Mrs. Swisshelm to her lodgings, but as you seem to
decline, I hope you will commission me."

Mr. Fleeson was a small man and Mr. Riddle had drawn himself to his full height and stood looking
down at him, saying:

"I want it distinctly understood that Mrs. Swisshelm's relations in this office are purely
those of business. If she requires anything of any man in it, she will command him and her
orders shall be obeyed. She has not ordered my attendance, but has kept her servant here all
the evening to see her to her friend's house, and this should be sufficient notice to any gentleman
that she does not want him."

During the ten years we used the same editorial-room. Mr. Riddle was often absent on the days
I must be there, and always secured plenty of light by setting away the shutters when I entered.
He generally made it necessary for me to go to his house and settle accounts, and never found
it convenient to offer his escort to any place unless accompanied by his wife.

The Visiter was three years old when he turned one day, examined me critically, and exclaimed:

"Why do you wear those hideous caps? You seem to have good hair. Mrs. Riddle says she knows
you have, and she and some ladies were wondering only yesterday, why you do make yourself such
a fright."

The offending cap was a net scarf tied under the chin, and I said, "You know I am subject to
quinsy, and this cap protects my tonsils."

He turned away with a sigh, and did not suspect that my tonsils had no such protection outside
the office, where I must meet a great many gentlemen and make it apparent that what I wanted
of them was votes! votes!! Votes for the women sold on the auction block, scourged for chastity,
robbed of their children, and that admiration was no part of my object.

Any attempt to aid business by any feminine attraction was to my mind revolting in the extreme,
and certain to bring final defeat. In nothing has the church of Rome shown more wisdom than
in the costume of her female missionaries. When a woman starts out in the world on a mission,
secular or religious, she should leave her feminine charms at home. Had I made capital of my
prettiness, I should have closed the doors of public employment to women for many a year, by
the very means which now makes them weak, underpaid competitors in the great workshop of the world.

One day Mr. Riddle said:

"I wish you had been here yesterday. Robert Watson called. He wanted to congratulate us on
the relations we have for so long maintained. We have never spoken of it, but you must have
known the risk of coming here. He has seen it, says he has watched you closely, and you are
an exception to all known law, or the harbinger of a new era in human progress."

Robert Watson was a retired lawyer of large wealth, who watched the world from his study, and
philosophized about its doings; and when Mr. Riddle had given me this conclusion, the subject
was never again referred to in our years of bargaining, buying and selling, paying and receipting.

CHAPTER XXII.

RECEPTION OF THE VISITER.

While preparing matter for the first number of the Visiter, I had time to think that so far
as any organization was concerned, I stood alone. I could not work with Garrison on the ground
that the Constitution was pro-slavery, for I had abandoned that in 1832, when our church split
on it and I went with the New School, who held that it was then anti-slavery. The Covenanters,
before it was adopted, denounced it as a "Covenant with death and an agreement with hell."
I had long ago become familiar with the arguments on that side, and I concluded they were fallacious,
and could not go back to them even for a welcome into the abolition ranks.

The political action wing of the anti-slavery party had given formal notice that no woman need
apply for a place among them. True, there was a large minority who dissented from this action,
but there was division enough, without my furnishing a cause for contention. So I took pains
to make it understood that I belonged to no party. I was fighting slavery on the frontier plan
of Indian warfare, where every man is Captain-lieutenants, all the corporals and privates of
his company. I was like the Israelites in the days when there was no king, and "every man did
that which, was right in his own eyes."

It seemed good unto me to support James G. Birney, for President, and to promulgate the principles
of the platform on which he stood in the last election. This I would do, and no man had the
right or power to stop me. My paper was a six column weekly, with a small Roman letter head,
my motto, "Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward," the names of my candidates
at the head of the editorial column and the platform inserted as standing matter.

It was quite an insignificant looking sheet, but no sooner did the American eagle catch sight
of it, than he swooned and fell off his perch. Democratic roosters straightened out their necks
and ran screaming with terror. Whig coons scampered up trees and barked furiously. The world
was falling and every one had "heard it, saw it, and felt it."

It appeared that on some inauspicious morning each one of three-fourths of the secular editors
from Maine to Georgia had gone to his office suspecting nothing, when from some corner of his
exchange list there sprang upon him such a horror as he had little thought to see.

A woman had started a political paper! A woman! Could he believe his eyes? A woman! Instantly
he sprang to his feet and clutched his pantaloons, shouted to the assistant editor, when he,
too, read and grasped frantically at his cassimeres, called to the reporters and pressmen and
typos and devils, who all rushed in, heard the news, seized their nether garments and joined
the general chorus, "My breeches! oh, my breeches!" Here was a woman resolved to steal their
pantaloons, their trousers, and when these were gone they might cry "Ye have taken away my
gods, and what have I more?" The imminence of the peril called for prompt action, and with
one accord they shouted, "On to the breach, in defense of our breeches! Repel the invader or
fill the trenches with our noble dead."

"That woman shall not have my pantaloons," cried the editor of the big city daily; "nor my
pantaloons" said the editor of the dignified weekly; "nor my pantaloons," said he who issued
manifestos but once a month; "nor mine," "nor mine," "nor mine," chimed in the small fry of
the country towns.

Even the religious press could not get past the tailor shop, and "pantaloons" was the watchword
all along the line. George D. Prentiss took up the cry, and gave the world a two-third column
leader on it, stating explicitly, "She is a man all but the pantaloons." I wrote to him asking
a copy of the article, but received no answer, when I replied in rhyme to suit his case:

     Perhaps you have been busy
     Horsewhipping Sal or Lizzie,
     Stealing some poor man's baby,
     Selling its mother, may-be.
     You say--and you are witty--
     That I--and, tis a pity--
     Of manhood lack but dress;
     But you lack manliness,
     A body clean and new,
     A soul within it, too.
     Nature must change her plan
     Ere you can be a man.

This turned the tide of battle. One editor said, "Brother George, beware of sister Jane." Another,
"Prentiss has found his match." He made no reply, and it was not long until I thought the pantaloon
argument was dropped forever.

There was, however, a bright side to the reception of the Visiter. Horace Greeley gave it respectful
recognition, so did N.P. Willis and Gen. Morris in the Home Journal. Henry Peterson's Saturday
Evening Post, Godey's Lady's Book, Graham's and Sargeant's magazines, and the anti-slavery
papers, one and all, gave it pleasant greeting, while there were other editors who did not,
in view of this innovation, forget that they were American gentlemen.

There were some saucy notices from "John Smith," editor of The Great West, a large literary
sheet published in Cincinnati. After John and I had pelted each other with paragraphs, a private
letter told me that she, who had then won a large reputation as John Smith, was Celia, who
afterwards became my very dear friend until the end of her lovely life, and who died the widow
of another dear friend, Wm. H. Burleigh.

In the second number of the Visiter, James H. McClelland, as secretary of the county convention,
published its report and contributed an able article, thus recognizing it as the much needed
county organ of the Liberty Party.

CHAPTER XXIII.

MY CROOKED TELESCOPE.

In the autumn of 1847, Dr. Robert Mitchell, of Indiana, Pa., was tried in Pittsburg, in the
United States Court, before Judge Grier, for the crime of harboring fugitive slaves. In an
old cabin ten miles from Indiana, on one of the doctor's farms, some colored men had taken
refuge and worked as harvest hands in the neighborhood. To it came the sheriff at midnight
with a posse, and after as desperate a resistance as unarmed men could make, two were captured.
On one of these was found a note:

     "Kill a sheep and give Jerry the half.
          ROB'T MITCHELL."

The name of the man who had the note was Jerry. It was addressed to a farmer who kept sheep
for the doctor, so it was conclusive evidence of the act charged, and the only defense possible
was want of knowledge. There was no proof that Dr. Mitchell knew Jerry to be a slave, none,
surely, that he knew him to be the property of plaintiff, who was bound to give notice of ownership
before he could be entitled to damages from defendant.

This defense Judge Grier overruled, by deciding that no notice was required, the law presumed
a guilty knowledge on the part of defendant.

Under this ruling Dr. Mitchell was fined $5,000 and the costs, which were $5,000 additional.
His homestead and a magnificent tract of pine land lying on the northern slope of the Alleghenies,
were sold by the sheriff of Indiana county to pay the penalty of this act of Christian charity;
but the Dr. said earnestly, "I'll do it again, if they take every dollar I have."

This ruling was alarming, for under it, it was unsafe either to sell or give food or lodging
to a stranger. The alarm was general, and even pro-slavery men regretted that this necessary
act of justice should fall so heavily on so good and gentle a man. There was much unfavorable
comment, but all in private, for the Pittsburg press quailed before Judge Grier, and libel
laws were the weapon with which he most loved to defend the dignity of the bench. One editor
he had kept in jail three months and ruined his business. Col. Hiram Kane was a brilliant writer,
a poet and pungent paragraphist, and had at one time criticised some of Judge Grier's decisions,
when by a libel suit the Judge had broken up his business and kept him in jail eighteen months.
Public sentiment was on Kane's side, and he had an ovation on his release, when he became city
editor of the Journal.

There was disappointment that I had not criticised Judge Grier's course in the first number
of the Visiter, but this was part of my plan. In the second number I stated that there had
been for a long time a great legal luminary visible in the Pennsylvania heavens, which had
suddenly disappeared. I had been searching for him for several weeks with the best telescopes
in the city, and had about given him up as a lost star, when I bethought me of Paddy, who had
heated his gun-barrel and bent it around a tree so that he might be able to shoot around corners.
Paddy's idea was so excellent that I had adopted it and made a crooked telescope, by which
I had found that luminary almost sixty degrees below our moral horizon. From this I proceeded
to the merits of the case.

Judge Grier and Dr. Mitchell were both elders in the Presbyterian church. The Judge administered
to men the eucharist oath to follow Christ, then usurped the law-making power of the United
States to punish them for obeying one of the plainest precepts of the Master.

The article seemed to throw him into a furious passion. He threatened to sue Mr. Riddle for
having the Visiter printed and sold in his office, and, as for me, I was to suffer all the
pains and penalties which law and public scorn could inflict. He demanded a satisfactory retraction
and apology as the least atonement he could accept for the insult. These Mr. Riddle promised
in my name, and I did not hesitate to make the promise good.

My next article was headed "An Apology," and in it I stated the circumstances which had called
it out, and the pleasant prospect of my being sent to Mount Airy (our county jail) in case
this, my apology, was not satisfactory. I should of course do my best to satisfy his honor,
but in case of failure, should take comfort in the fact that the Mount would make a good observatory.
From that height I should be able to use my telescope much better than in my present valley
of humiliation.

Judge Grier had helped a gang of thieves to steal Jerry, whose ancestors had been stolen in
Africa. The original thief sold all he could sell--the title of a thief--and as the stream
cannot rise above the fountain, Jerry's master held the same title to him that any man would
to Judge Grier's horse, provided he had stolen it. The purchaser of a stolen horse acquired
no title in him, and the purchaser of a stolen man acquired no title in him. The man who helped
another steal a horse, was a horse thief, and the man who helped another steal a man, was a
man thief, condemned to death by divine law. Jerry, after having been once stolen, had recovered
possession of himself, and his master and other thieves had re-stolen him! Judge Grier, with
full knowledge of this fact, had prostituted law for the benefit of the thieves.

Nothing more was heard of a libel suit. Two years after, James McMasters was sued for harboring
a fugitive; was to be tried before Grier, and spoke to his lawyer about summoning the editor
of the Visiter. The attorney exclaimed:

"Oh bring her, by all means! No matter what she knows, or whether she knows anything; bring
her into court, and I'll win the case for you. Grier is more afraid of her than of the devil."

The editor was summoned, gave testimony, and found Judge Grier a most courteous and considerate
gentleman, with no signs of fear. The case hung on the question of notice. The Judge reversed
his former decision, and those who were apt to feed beggars, breathed more freely.

A case was tried for the remanding of a slave, and lawyer Snowden appeared for the master.
The Visiter sketched the lawyer as his client's dog, Towser; a dog of the blood-hound breed,
with a brand new brass collar, running with his nose to the ground, while his owner clapped
his hands and shouted: "Seek him, seek him Towser!"

This caught the fancy of the street boys, who called him, "Towser, where's your collar?" "Seek
him, Towser." He was the last Pittsburg lawyer who took a case against a slave, and public
sentiment had so advanced that there never afterwards was a fugitive taken out of the county.

CHAPTER XXIV.

MINT, CUMMIN AND ANNIS.

While the bench and bar were thus demanding the attention of the Visiter, the pulpit was examining
its morals with a microscope, and defending the sum of all villainies as a Bible institution.
The American churches, with three exceptions, not only neglected "the weightier matters of
the law, judgment and mercy," but were the main defense of the grossest injustice, the most
revolting cruelty; and, to maintain an appearance of sanctity, were particularly devout and
searching in the investigation of small sins.

A religions contemporary discovered that the Visiter did actually advertise "Jayne's Expectorant,"
and such an expectoration of pious reprehension as this did call forth! The Visiter denied
that the advertisement was immoral, and carried the war into Africa--that old man-stealing
Africa--and there took the ground that chattel slavery never did exist among the Jews; that
what we now charge upon them as such was a system of bonded servitude; that the contract was
originally between master and servant; the consideration of the labor paid to the servant;
that in all cases of transfer, the master sold to another that portion of the time and labor
of the servant, which were still due; that there was no hint of any man selling a free man
into slavery for the benefit of the seller; that the servants bought from "the heathen around
about," were bought from themselves, or in part at least, for their benefit, to bring them
under general law and into the church; that nothing like American slavery was ever known in
the days of Moses, or any other day than that of this great Republic, since our slavery was
"the vilest that ever saw the sun," John Wesley being witness.

The Visiter cited the purchase by Joseph of the people of Egypt, and Leviticus xxv, xxxix:
"If thy brother be waxen poor and sell himself unto thee." The Bible had not then been changed
to suit the exigencies of slavery. In later editions, "sell himself" is converted into "be
sold," but as the passage then stood it was a sledge-hammer with which one might beat the whole
pro-slavery Bible argument into atoms, and while the Visiter used it with all the force it
could command, it took the ground that if the Bible did sanction slavery, the Bible must be
wrong, since nothing could make slavery right.

CHAPTER XXV.

FREE SOIL PARTY.

The Free Soil or Barnburner party was organized in '48, and nominated Martin Van Buren for
President. The Visiter dropped its Birney flag and raised the Van Buren standard. In supporting
him the editor of the Visiter was charged with being false to the cause of the slave, and of
playing into the hands of the Whigs. All the editor had ever said about that pro-slavery ex-President
was cast into its teeth by Democratic, Liberty Party and Garrisonian papers, which, one and
all, held that Van Buren was a cunning old fox, as pro-slavery as in those days when, as President
of the U.S. Senate, he gave his casting vote for the bill which authorized every Southern post-master
to open all the mail which came to his office, search for and destroy any matter that he might
think dangerous to Southern institutions. In his present hostility to slavery, he was actuated
by personal hatred of Louis Cass, the Democratic candidate, and sought to draw off enough.
Democratic votes to defeat him.

The object of the Visiter in supporting Van Buren was to smash one of the great pro-slavery
parties of the nation, or gain an anti-slavery balance of power to counteract the slavery vote
for which both contended. A few thousand reliable votes would compel one party to take anti-slavery
ground. The Van Buren movement was almost certain to defeat the Democrats, and force the Whigs
to seek our alliance. True, the Free Soil platform did not suit Liberty Party men, who said
it simply proposed to confine slavery to its present limits, and not destroy it where it already
existed.

To all of which, and much more, the little Visiter replied, that with Van Buren's motives it
had nothing to do. His present attitude was one of hostility to the spread of slavery, and
this being a long step in advance of other parties, was a position desirable to gain and hold.
To decline aiding those who proposed to circumscribe slavery because they did not propose its
destruction, was as if a soldier should refuse to storm an outpost on the ground that it was
not the citadel.

Checking the advance of an enemy was one step toward driving him off the field, and a rusty
cannon might be worth several bright-barreled muskets in holding him at bay. The Lord punished
Israel by the hand of Jehu and Hazael, both wicked men. Slavery was bursting her bounds, coming
over on us like the sea on Holland. One very dirty shovel might be worth a hundred silver teaspoons
in keeping back the waters, and this Free Soil party could do more to check its advance than
a hundred of the little Liberty Party with that pure patriot, Gerrit Smith, at its head. In
doing right, take all the help you can get, even from Satan. Let him assist to carry your burden
as long as he will travel your road, and only be careful not to turn off with him when he takes
his own.

The Visitor had thousands of readers scattered over every State and Territory in the nation,
in England and the Canadas. It was quoted more perhaps than any other paper in the country,
and whether for blame or praise, its sentiments were circulated, and men of good judgment thought
it made thousands of votes for the Free Soil party.

CHAPTER XXVI.

VISIT WASHINGTON.--AGE, 35.

When slavery thought to reap the fruits of the war into which she had plunged the nation with
Mexico, lo! there was a lion in her path, and not a Bunyan lion either, for this kingly beast
wore no collar, no chain held him. The roused North had laid her great labor paw on the California
gold fields and stood showing her teeth while the serpent with raised crest was coiled to strike,
and the world waited and wondered.

Henry Clay, the synonym for compromise, was still in the United States Senate, and, with his
cat-like tread, stepped in between the belligerents with a cunning device--a device similar
to that by which the boys disposed of the knife they found jointly--one was to own, the other
to carry and use it. So by this plan the lion was to own California, and the snake was to occupy
it as a hunting-ground; nay, not it alone, but every State and Territory in the Union must
be given up to its slimy purposes. In other words, California was to be admitted as a free
State, upon condition of the passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill, which authorized the slave-hunter
to follow the fugitive into every home, every spot of this broad land; to tear him from any
altar, and demand the services of every "good citizen" in his hellish work. Men by thousands,
once counted friends of freedom, bowed abjectly to this infamous decision.

Daniel Webster, the leading Whig statesman, made a set speech in favor of thus giving up the
whole country to the dominion of the slave power. It was another great bid for the next presidential
nomination, which must be controlled by the South. The danger was imminent, the crisis alarming,
and the excitement very great. I longed to be in Washington, so I wrote to Horace Greeley,
who answered that he would pay me five dollars a column for letters. It was said that this
was the first time a woman had been engaged in that capacity.

I went to Washington in the early part of '50, going by canal to the western foot of the Alleghenies,
and then by rail to the foot of the inclined plane, where our cars were wound up and let down
by huge windlasses. I was in a whirl of wonder and excitement by this, my first acquaintance
with the iron-horse, but had to stay all night in Baltimore because the daily train for Washington
had left before ours came.

I had letters to the proprietor of the Irving House, where I took board. Had others to Col.
Benton, Henry Clay, and other great men, but he who most interested me was Dr. Gamaliel Bailey,
editor of the National Era. The great want of an anti-slavery paper at the capitol had been
supplied by five-dollar subscriptions to a publication fund, and Dr. Bailey called from Cincinnati
to take charge of it, and few men have kept a charge with more care and skill. He and the Era
had just passed the ordeal of a frightful mob, in which he was conciliatory, unyielding and
victorious; and he was just then gravely anxious about the great crisis, but most of all anxious
that the Era should do yeoman service to the cause which had called it into life. The Era had
a large circulation, and high literary standing, but Dr. Bailey was troubled about the difficulty
or impossibility of procuring anti-slavery tales. Mrs. Southworth was writing serials for it,
and he had hoped that she, a Southern woman with Northern principles, could weave into her
stories pictures of slavery which would call damaging attention to it, but in this she had failed.

Anti-slavery tales, anti-slavery tales, was what the good Doctor wanted. Temperance had its
story writer in Arthur. If only abolition had a good writer of fiction, one who could interest
and educate the young. He knew of but one pen able to write what he wanted, and alas, the finances
of the Era could not command it. If only he could engage Mrs. Stowe. I had not heard of her,
and he explained that she was a daughter of Lyman Beecher. I was surprised and exclaimed:

"A daughter of Lyman Beecher write abolition stories! Saul among the prophets!"

I reminded the Doctor that President Beecher and Prof. Stowe had broken up the theological
department of Lane Seminary by suppressing the anti-slavery agitation raised by Theodore Weld,
a Kentucky student, and threw their influence against disturbing the Congregational churches
with the new fanaticism; that Edward Beecher invented the "organic sin," devil, behind which
churches and individuals took refuge when called upon to "come up to the help of the Lord against
the mighty." But Dr. Bailey said he knew them personally, and that despite their public record,
they were at heart anti-slavery, and that prudence alone dictated their course. Mrs. Stowe
was a graphic story-teller, had been in Kentucky, taken in the situation and could describe
the peculiar institution as no one else could. If he could only enlist her, the whole family
would most likely follow into the abolition ranks; but the bounty money, alas, where could
he raise it?

Where there is the will there is a way, and it was but a few months after that conversation
when Dr. Bailey forwarded one hundred dollars to Mrs. Stowe as a retaining fee for her services
in the cause of the slave, and lo! the result, "Uncle Tom's Cabin." As it progressed he sent
her another, and then another hundred dollars. Was ever money so well expended?

That grand old lion, Joshua R. Giddings, had also passed through the mob, and as I went with
him to be presented to President Taylor, a woman in the crowd stepped back, drew away her skirts,
and with a snarl exclaimed,

"A pair of abolitionists!"

The whole air of Freedom's capital thrilled and palpitated with hatred of her and her cause.
On the question of the pending Fugitive Slave Bill, the feeling was intense and bitterly partisan,
although not a party measure. Mr. Taylor, the Whig President, had pronounced the bill an insult
to the North, and stated his determination to veto it. Fillmore, the Vice-President, was in
favor of it. So, Freedom looked to a man owning three hundred slaves, while slavery relied
on "a Northern man with Southern principles." President Taylor was hated by the South, was
denounced as a traitor to his section, while Southern men and women fawned upon and flattered
Fillmore. Webster, the great Whig statesman of the North, had bowed the knee to Baal, while
Col. Benton, of Missouri, was on the side of Freedom.

The third, or anti-slavery party, represented by Chase and Hale in the Senate, was beginning
to make itself felt, and must be crushed and stamped out at all hazards--the infant must be
strangled in its cradle.

While abolition was scoffed at by hypocritical priests as opening a door to amalgamation, here,
in the nation's capital, lived some of our most prominent statesmen in open concubinage with
negresses, adding to their income by the sale of their own children, while one could neither
go out nor stay in without meeting indisputable testimony of the truth of Thomas Jefferson's
statement: "The best blood of Virginia runs in the veins of her slaves." But the case which
interested me most was a family of eight mulattoes, bearing the image and superscription of
the great New England statesman, who paid the rent and grocery bills of their mother as regularly
as he did those of his wife.

Pigs were the scavengers, mud and garbage the rule, while men literally wallowed in the mire
of licentiousness and strong drink. In Congress they sat and loafed with the soles of their
boots turned up for the inspection of the ladies in the galleries. Their language and gestures
as they expectorated hither and thither were often as coarse as their positions, while they
ranted about the "laws and Constitution," and cracked their slave-whips over the heads of the
dough-faces sent from the Northern States.

Washington was a great slave mart, and her slave-pen was one of the most infamous in the whole
land. One woman, who had escaped from it, was pursued in her flight across the long bridge,
and was gaining on the four men who followed her, when they shouted to some on the Virginia
shore, who ran and intercepted her. Seeing her way blocked, and all hope of escape gone, with
one wild cry she clasped her hands above her head, sprang into the Potomac, and was swept into
that land beyond the River Death, where alone was hope for the American slave. Another woman
with her two children was captured on the steps of the capitol building, whither she had fled
for protection, and this, too, while the stars and stripes floated over it.

One of President Tyler's daughters ran away with the man she loved, in order that they might
be married, but for this they must reach foreign soil. A young lady of the White House could
not marry the man of her choice in the United States. The lovers were captured, and she was
brought to His Excellency, her father, who sold her to a slave-trader. From that Washington
slave-pen she was taken to New Orleans by a man who expected to get twenty-five hundred dollars
for her on account of her great beauty.

My letters to the New York Tribune, soon attracted so much attention that is was unpleasant
for me to live in a hotel, and I became the guest of my friend Mrs. Emma D.E.N. Southworth.
It was pleasant to look into her great, dreamy grey eyes, with their heavy lashes, at the broad
forehead and the clustering brown curls, and have her sit and look into the fire and talk as
she wrote of the strange fancies which peopled her busy brain.

Among the legislative absurdities which early attracted my attention was that of bringing every
claim against the government before Congress. If a man thought government owed him ten dollars,
the only way was to have the bill pass both houses. In my Tribune letters, I ventilated that
thoroughly, and suggested a court, in which Brother Jonathan could appear by attorney. Mr.
Greeley seconded the suggestion warmly, and this, I think, was the origin of the Court of Claims.

There was yet one innovation I wanted to make, although my stay in Washington would necessarily
be short. No woman had ever had a place in the Congressional reporter's gallery. This door
I wanted to open to them, called on Vice-President Fillmore and asked him to assign me a seat
in the Senate gallery. He was much surprised and tried to dissuade me. The place would be very
unpleasant for a lady, would attract attention, I would not like it; but he gave me the seat.
I occupied it one day, greatly to the surprise of the Senators, the reporters, and others on
the floor and in the galleries; but felt that the novelty would soon wear off, and that women
would work there and win bread without annoyance.

But the Senate had another sensation that day, for Foot, in a speech alluded to "the gentleman
from Missouri." Benton sprang to his feet, and started toward him, but a dozen members rushed
up to hold him, and he roared:

"Stand off, gentlemen! Unhand me! Let me reach the scoundrel!" Everyone stamped, and ran, and
shouted "Order!" The speaker pounded with his mallet, and Foot ran down the aisle to the chair,
drawing out a great horse-pistol and cocking it, cried:

"Let him come on, gentlemen! let him come on!" while he increased the distance between them
as fast as time and space would permit. After the hubbub had subsided, Foot explained:

"Mr. Speaker, I saw the gentleman coming, and I advanced toward the chair."

I have never seen a well-whipped rooster run from his foe, without thinking of Foot's advance.

CHAPTER XXVII.

DANIEL WEBSTER.

Darkest of the dark omens for the slave, in that dark day, was the defalcation of Daniel Webster.
He whose eloquence had secured in name the great Northwest to freedom, and who had so long
been dreaded by the slave-power, had laid his crown in the dust; had counseled the people of
the North to conquer their prejudices against catching slaves, and by his vote would open every
sanctuary to the bloodhound. The prestige of his great name and the power of his great intellect
were turned over to slavery, and the friends of freedom deplored and trembled for the result.

There was some general knowledge through the country of the immorality of Southern men in our
national capital. Serious charges had been made by abolitionists against Henry Clay, but Webster
was supposed to be a moral as well as an intellectual giant. Brought up in Puritan New England,
he was accredited with all the New England virtues; and when a Southern woman said to me, in
answer to my strictures on Southern men:

"Oh, you need not say anything! Look at your own Daniel Webster!" I wondered and began to look
at and inquire about him, and soon discovered that his whole panoply of moral power was a shell--that
his life was full of rottenness. Then I knew why I had come to Washington. I gathered the principal
facts of his life at the Capitol, stated them to Dr. Snodgrass, a prominent Washington correspondent,
whose anti-slavery paper had been suppressed in Baltimore by a mob, to Joshua R. Giddings and
Gamaliel Bailey. They assured me of the truth of what had been told me, but advised me to keep
quiet, as other people had done. I took the whole question into careful consideration; wrote
a paragraph in a letter to the Visiter, stating the facts briefly, strongly; and went to read
it to my friend, Mrs. George W. Julian.

I found her and her husband together, and read the letter to them. They sat dumb for a moment,
then he exclaimed:

"You must not publish that!"

"Is it true?"

"Oh, yes! It is true! But none the less you must not publish it!"

"Can I prove it?"

"No one will dare deny it. We have all known that for years, but no one would dare to make
it public. No good can come of its publication; it would ruin you, ruin your influence, ruin
your work. You would lose your Tribune engagement, by which you are now doing so much good.
We all feel the help you are to the good cause. Do not throw away your influence!"

"Does not the cause of the slave hang on the issue in Congress?"

"I think it does."

"Is not Mr. Webster's influence all against it?"

"Yes, of course!"

"Would not that influence be very much less if the public knew just what he is?"

"Of course it would, but you cannot afford to tell them. You have no idea what his friends
would say, what they would do. They would ruin you."

I thought a moment, and said:

"I will publish it, and let God take care of the consequences."

"Good!" exclaimed Mrs. Julian, clapping her hands. "I would if I were in your place."

But when I went to post the letter, I hesitated, walked back and forth on the street, and almost
concluded to leave out that paragraph. I shuddered lest Mr. Julian's prediction should prove
true. I was gratified by my position on the Tribune--the social distinction it gave me and
courtesy which had been shown me. Grave Senators went out of their way to be polite, and even
pro-slavery men treated me with distinguished consideration. My Washington life had been eminently
agreeable, and I dreaded changing popularity for public denunciation. But I remembered my Red
Sea, and my motto--"Speak unto the children of Israel that they go forward." The duty of destroying
that pro-slavery influence was plain. All the objections were for fear of the consequences
to me. I had said God should take care of these, and mailed the letter, but I must leave Washington.
Mr. Greeley should not discharge me. I left the capitol the day after taking my seat in the
reporter's gallery, feeling that that door was open to other women.

The surprise with which the Webster statement was received was fully equalled by the storm
of denunciation it drew down upon me. The New York Tribune regretted and condemned. Other secular
papers made dignified protests. The religious press was shocked at my indelicacy, and fellows
of the baser sort improved their opportunity to the utmost. I have never seen, in the history
of the press, such widespread abuse of any one person as that with which I was favored; but,
by a strange fatality, the paragraph was copied and copied. It was so short and pointed that
in no other way could its wickedness be so well depicted as by making it a witness against itself.

I had nothing to do but keep quiet. The accusation was made. I knew where to find the proof
if it should be legally called for, and until it was I should volunteer no evidence, and my
witnesses could not be attacked or discredited in advance. By and by people began to ask for
the contradiction of this "vile slander." It was so circumstantial as to call for a denial.
It could not be set aside as unworthy of attention.

What did it mean? Mr. Webster was a prominent candidate for President. Would his friends permit
this story to pass without a word of denial? Mr. Julian was right; no one would dare deny the
charge. He was, however, wrong in saying it would ruin me. My motive was too apparent, and
the revelations too important, for any lasting disgrace to attach to it. On all hands it was
assured that the disclosure had had a telling effect in disposing of a formidable power which
had been arrayed against the slave, as Mr. Webster failed to secure the nomination.

Some one started a conundrum: "Why is Daniel Webster like Sisera? Because he was killed by
a woman," and this had almost as great a run as the original accusation.

When the National Convention met in Pittsburg, in 1852, to form the Free Democratic party,
there was an executive and popular branch held in separate halls. I attended the executive.
Very few women were present, and I the only one near the platform. The temporary chairman left
the chair, came to me to be introduced, saying:

"I want to take the hand that killed Daniel Webster."

Henry Wilson was permanent chairman of that convention, and he came, too, with similar address.
Even Mr. Greeley continued to be my friend, and I wrote for the Tribune often after that time.

CHAPTER XXVIII.

FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW.

When it became certain that the Fugitive Slave Bill could pass Congress, but could not command
a two-thirds vote to carry it over the assured veto of President Taylor, he ate a plate of
strawberries, just as President Harrison had done when he stood in the way of Southern policy,
and like his great predecessor Taylor, died opportunely, when Mr. Fillmore became President,
and signed the bill. When it was the law of the land, there was a rush of popular sentiment
in favor of obedience, and a rush of slave-catchers to take advantage of its provisions. Thousands
of slaves were returned to bondage. Whigs and Democrats were still bidding for the Southern
vote, and now vied with each other as to who should show most willingness to aid their Southern
brethren in the recovery of their lost property. The church also rushed to the front to show
its Christian zeal for the wrongs of those brethren, who, by the escape of their slaves, lost
the means of building churches and buying communion services, and there was no end of homilies
on the dishonesty of helping men to regain possession of their own bodies. All manner of charges
were rung about Onesimus, and Paul became the patron saint of slave-catchers.

Among the many devices brought to bear on the consciences of Pittsburgers, was a sermon preached,
as per announcement, by Rev. Riddle, pastor of the Third Presbyterian church. It was received
with great favor, by his large wealthy congregation, was printed in pamphlet form, distributed
by thousands and made a profound impression, for Pittsburg is a Presbyterian city, and a sermon
by its leading pastor was convincing. The sermon was an out and out plea for the bill and obedience
to its requirements. Did not Paul return Onesimus to his master? Were not servants told to
obey their masters? Running away was gross disobedience, etc., etc.

Robt. M. Riddle, in a careful leader in The Journal, deprecated the existence of the law, but
since it did exist, counseled obedience. He was a polished and forcible writer and his arguments
had great weight.

The Visiter published an article on "The Two Riddles," in which was drawn a picture of a scantily
clad woman, with bruised and bleeding feet, clasping an infant to her bosom, panting before
her pursuers up Third street. The master called on all good citizens for help. The cry reached
the ears of the tall editor of the Journal seated at his desk. He dropped his pen, hastily
donned his new brass collar and started in hot pursuit of this wicked woman, who was feloniously
appropriating the property of her master.

The other Riddle--the Presbyterian pastor--planted himself by the lamp post on the corner of
Third and Market streets, and with spectacles on nose and raised hands, loudly implored divine
blessing on the labors of his tall namesake. The Visiter concluded by advising masters who
had slaves to catch, to apply to these gentlemen, who would attend to business from purely
pious and patriotic motives.

I did not see Mr. Riddle for two weeks after the publication of the sketch, and then we met
on the street. He had never before been angry or vexed with me, but now he was both, and said:

"How could you do me such an injustice?"

"Why is it an injustice?"

"Oh you know it is! You know I would cut off my right hand, before I would aid in capturing
a fugitive."

"Then why do you counsel others to do it?"

"Oh you know better! and Rev. Riddle, he and his friends are distressed about it. You do not
know what you have done! I have already had three letters from the South, asking me to aid
in returning fugitives, and he, too, has had similar applications. Oh it is too humiliating,
too bad. You must set it right!"

I agreed to do so, and the Visiter explained that it had been mistaken in saying that both
or either of the two Riddles would aid in returning fugitives. They both scorned the business,
and Robt. M., would cut off his right hand, rather than engage in it. He only meant that other
people should do what would degrade him. He was not a good citizen, and did not intend to be.
As for his Reverence, he would shirk his Christian duties; would not pray by that lamppost,
or any other lamp-post, for the success of slave-catchers. He had turned his back upon Paul,
and had fallen from grace since preaching his famous sermon. The gentlemen had been accredited
with a patriotism and piety of which they were incapable, and a retraction was necessary; but
if any other more patriotic politician or divine, further advanced in sanctification would
send their names to the Visiter, it would notify the South.

That old Bible, in spite of pro-slavery interpreters, proved to be the great bulwark of human
liberty.

In 1852, Slavery and Democracy formed that alliance to which we owe the Great Rebellion. The
South became solid, and Whigs had no longer any motive for catching slaves.

CHAPTER XXIX.

BLOOMERS AND WOMAN'S RIGHTS CONVENTIONS.

The appearance of The Visiter was the signal for an outbreak, for which I was wholly unprepared,
and one which proved the existence of an eating cancer of discontent in the body politic. Under
the smooth surface of society lay a mass of moral disease, which suddenly broke out into an
eruption of complaints, from those who felt themselves oppressed by the old Saxon and ecclesiastical
laws under which one-half the people of the republic still lived.

In the laws governing the interests peculiar to men, and those affecting their interests in
common with woman, great advance had been made during the past six centuries, but those regarding
the exclusive interests of women, had remained in statu quo, since King Alfred the Great and
the knights of his Round Table fell asleep. The anti-negro slavery object of my paper seemed
to be lost sight of, both by friends and foes of human progress, in the surprise at the innovation
of a woman entering the political arena, to argue publicly on great questions of national policy,
and while men were defending their pantaloons, they created and spread the idea, that masculine
supremacy lay in the form of their garments, and that a woman dressed like a man would be as
potent as he.

Strange as it may now seem, they succeeded in giving such efficacy to the idea, that no less
a person than Mrs. Elizabeth Cady Stanton was led astray by it, so that she set her cool, wise
head to work and invented a costume, which she believed would emancipate woman from thraldom.
Her invention was adopted by her friend Mrs. Bloomer, editor and proprietor of the Lily, a
small paper then in infancy in Syracuse, N.Y., and from her, the dress took its name--"the
bloomer." Both women believed in their dress, and staunchly advocated it as the sovereignest
remedy for all the ills that woman's flesh is heir to.

I made a suit and wore it at home parts of two days, long enough to feel assured that it must
be a failure; and so opposed it earnestly, but nothing I could say or do could make it apparent
that pantaloons were not the real objective point, at which all discontented woman aimed. I
had once been tried on a charge of purloining pantaloons, and been acquitted for lack of evidence;
but now, here was the proof! The women themselves, leaders of the malcontents, promulgated
and pressed their claim to bifurcated garments, and the whole tide of popular discussion was
turned into that ridiculous channel.

The Visiter had a large list of subscribers in Salem, Ohio, and in the summer of '49 a letter
from a lady came to me saying, that the Visiter had stirred up so much interest in women's
rights that a meeting had been held and a committee appointed to get up a woman's rights convention,
and she, as chairman of that committee, invited me to preside. I felt on reading this as if
I had had a douche bath; then, as a lawyer might have felt who had carried a case for a corporation
through the lower court, and when expecting it up before the supreme bench, had learned that
all his clients were coming in to address the court on the merits of the case.

By the pecks of letters I had been receiving, I had learned that there were thousands of women
with grievances, and no power to state them or to discriminate between those which could be
reached by law and those purely personal; and that the love of privacy with which the whole
sex was accredited was a mistake, since most of my correspondents literally agonized to get
before the public. Publicity! publicity! was the persistent demand. To meet the demand, small
papers, owned and edited by women, sprang up all over the land, and like Jonah's gourd, perished
in a night. Ruskin says to be noble is to be known, and at that period there was a great demand
on the part of women for their full allowance of nobility; but not one in a hundred thought
of merit as a means of reaching it. No use waiting to learn to put two consecutive sentences
together in any connected form, or for an idea or the power of expressing it. One woman was
printing her productions, and why should not all the rest do likewise? They had so long followed
some leader like a flock of sheep, that now they would rush through the first gap into newspaperdom.

I declined the presidential honors tendered me, on the ground of inability to fill the place;
and earnestly entreated the movers to reconsider and give up the convention, saying:

"It will open a door through which fools and fanatics will pour in, and make the cause ridiculous."

The answer was that it was too late to recede. The convention was held, and justified my worst
fears. When I criticised it, the reply was:

"If you had come and presided, as we wished you to do, the result would have been different.
You started the movement and now refuse to lead it, but cannot stop it."

The next summer a convention was held in Akron, Ohio, and I attended, hoping to modify the
madness, but failed utterly, by all protests I could make, to prevent the introduction by the
committee on resolutions of this:

"Resolved, that the difference in sex is one of education."

A man stood behind the president to prompt her, but she could not catch his meaning, and when
confusion came, she rose and made a little speech, in which she stated that she knew nothing
of parliamentary rules, and when consenting to preside had resolved, if there were trouble,
to say to the convention as she did to her boys at home: "Quit behaving yourselves!"

This brought down the house, but brought no order, and she sat down, smiling, a perfect picture
of self-complaisance.

People thought the press unmerciful in its ridicule of that convention, but I felt in it all
there was much forbearance. No words could have done justice to the occasion. It was so much
more ridiculous than ridicule, so much more absurd than absurdity. The women on whom that ridicule
was heaped were utterly incapable of self-defense, or unconscious of its need. The mass of
nobility seekers seemed content to get before the public by any means, and to wear its most
stinging sarcasms as they would a new dress cap.

In those days I reserved all my hard words for men, and in my notice of the convention mildly
suggested that it would have been better had Mrs. Oliver Johnson been made president, as she
had great executive ability and a good knowledge of parliamentary rules. This suggestion was
received by the president as an insult never to be forgiven, and in the Visiter defended herself
against it. I replied, and in the discussion which followed she argued that the affairs of
each family should be so arranged that the husband and wife would be breadwinner and housekeeper
by turns, day or oven half day about. He should go to business in the forenoon, then in the
afternoon take care of baby and permit her to go to the office, shop or warehouse from which
came the family supplies.

I took the ground that baby would be apt to object, and that in our family the rule would not
work, since I could not put a log on the mill-carriage, and the water would be running to waste
all my day or half-day as bread-winner.

About the same time, Mrs. Stanton published a series of articles in Mrs. Bloomer's paper, the
Lily, in which she taught that it was right for a mother to make baby comfortable, lay him
in his crib, come out, lock the door, and leave him to develop his lungs by crying or cooing,
as he might decide, while mamma improved her mind and attended to her public and social duties.

Against such head winds, it was hard for my poor little craft to make progress in asserting
the right of women to influence great public questions.

For something over twenty years, after that Akron meeting, I did not see a woman's rights convention,
and in all have seen but five. Up to 1876 there had been no material improvement in them, if
those I saw were a fair specimen. Their holders have always seemed to me like a woman who should
undertake at a state fair to run a sewing machine, under pretense of advertising it, while
she had never spent an hour in learning its use.

However, those conventions have probably saved the republic. From the readiness with which
Pennsylvania legislators responded to the petition of three of four women, acting without concert,
in the matter of property rights, it is probable that in a fit of generosity the men of the
United States would have enfranchised its women en masse; and the government now staggering
under the ballots of ignorant, irresponsible men, must have gone down under the additional
burden of the votes which would have been thrown upon it, by millions of ignorant, irresponsible
women. Before that time, the unanswerable argument of Judge Hurlbut had been published, and
had made a deep impression on the minds of thinking men. Had this been followed by the earnest,
thrilling appeals of Susan B. Anthony, free from all alliance with cant and vanity, we should
no doubt have had a voting population to-day, under which no government could exist ten years;
but those conventions raised the danger signal, and men took heed to the warning.

CHAPTER XXX.

MANY MATTERS.

The period of the Visiter was one of great mental activity--a period of hobbies--and it, having
assumed the reform roll, was expected to assume all the reforms. Turkish trowsers, Fourierism,
Spiritualism, Vegetarianism, Phonetics, Pneumonics, the Eight Hour Law, Criminal Caudling,
Magdaleneism, and other devices for teaching pyramids to stand on their apex was pressed upon
the Visiter, and it held by the disciples of each as "false to all its professions," when declining
to devote itself to its advocacy. There were a thousand men and women, who knew exactly what
it ought to do; but seldom two of them agreed, and none ever thought of furnishing funds for
the doing of it. Reformers insisted that it should advocate their plan of hurrying up the millenium,
furnish the white paper and pay the printers. Pond parents came with their young geniuses to
have them baptized in type from the Visiter font. Male editors were far away folks, but the
Visiter would sympathize with family hopes.

Ah, the crop of Miltons, Shakespeares, and Drydens which was growing up in this land, full
forty years ago. What has ever become of them? Here conscience gives a twinge, for that wicked
Visiter did advise that parents should treat young genius as scientists do wood, which they
wish to convert into pure carbon, i.e., cover it up with neglect and discouragement, and pat
these down with wholesome discipline, solid study and useful work, and so let the fire smoulder
out of sight.

The policy of the Visiter in regard to Woman's Rights, was to "go easy," except in the case
of those slave-women, who had no rights. For others, gain an advance when you could. Educate
girls with boys, develop their brains, and take away legal disabilities little by little, as
experience should show was wise; but never dream of their doing the world's hard work, either
mental or physical; and Heaven defend them from going into all the trades.

The human teeth proved that we should eat flesh, and the human form proved that men should
take the ore out of the mines, subdue the inertia of matter and the ferocity of animals; that
they should raise the grain, build the houses, roads and heavy machinery; and that women should
do the lighter work. As this work was as important as the heavier, and as it fell principally
on wives and mothers, they in these relations should receive equal compensation with the husband
and father. By this plan, the estate acquired by a matrimonial firm, would belong equally to
both parties, and each could devise his or her share, so that a woman would know that her accumulations
would go to her heirs, not to her successor. Consequently, every wife would have an incentive
to industry and economy, instead of being stimulated to idleness and extravagance as by existing
laws.

Women should not weaken their cause by impracticable demands. Make no claim which could not
be won in a reasonable time. Take one step at a time, get a good foothold in it and advance
carefully. Suffrage in municipal elections for property holders who could read, and had never
been connected with crime, was the place to strike for the ballot. Say nothing about suffrage
elsewhere until it proved successful here.

Intemperance was then under treatment by Washingtonianism. By this philosophy it was held that
each man consists of about thirty pounds of solid matter, wet up with several buckets of water;
that in youth his mother and sweetheart, kneads, rolls, pats and keeps him in shape, until
his wife takes charge of him and makes him into large loaves or little cakes, according to
family requirements; but must not stop kneading, rolling, patting, on pain of having him all
flatten out.

The diagnosis of drunkenness was that it was a disease for which the patient was in no way
responsible, that it was created by existing saloons, and non-existing bright hearths, smiling
wives, pretty caps and aprons. The cure was the patent nostrum of pledge-signing, a lying-made-easy
invention, which like calomel, seldom had any permanent effect on the disease for which it
was given, and never failed to produce another and a worse. Here the cure created an epidemic
of forgery, falsehood and perjury.

Napoleon selected his generals for their large noses. Dr. Washingtonian chose his leaders for
their great vices. The honors bestowed upon his followers were measured by their crimes, and
that man who could boast the largest accumulation was the hero of the hour. A decent, sober
man was a mean-spirited fellow; while he who had brought the grey hair of parents in sorrow
to the grave, wasted his patrimony and murdered his wife and children, was "King o' men for
a' that." The heroines were those women who had smilingly endured every wrong, every indignity
that brutality could inflict; had endured them not alone for themselves but for their children;
and she who had caressed the father of her child while he dashed its brains out, headed the
list in saintship; for love was the kneading trough, and obedience the rolling pin, in and
with which that precious mess called a man was to be made into an angel.

The Visiter held that the law-giver of Mount Sinai knew what was in man, and had not given
any such account of him; that the commands, "Thou shalt," and "Thou shalt not," were addressed
to each individual; that the disease of opening one's mouth and pouring whisky into it was
under the control of the mouth-opener; that drunkenness was a crime for which the criminal
should be punished by such terms of imprisonment as would effectually protect society and prevent
its confirmation. It told women that that dough ought to be baked in the furnace of affliction;
that the coil of an anaconda was preferable to the embraces of a drunken man; that it is a
crime for a woman to become the mother of a drunkard's child; that she who fails to protect
her child from the drunken fury of any man, even to the extent of taking his life on the spot,
if possible, is a coward and a traitor to the highest impulses of humanity.

