    Consequences of the Fall on the Communication between Man and the
    Spiritual World--Effects of the Flood--Wizards of Pharaoh--Text in
    Exodus against Witches--The word Witch is by some said to mean
    merely Poisoner--Or if in the Holy Text it also means a Divineress,
    she must, at any rate, have been a Character very different to be
    identified with it--The original, Chasaph, said to mean a person
    who dealt in Poisons, often a Traffic of those who dealt with
    familiar Spirits--But different from the European Witch of the
    Middle Ages--Thus a Witch is not accessary to the Temptation of
    Job--The Witch of the Hebrews probably did not rank higher than a
    Divining Woman--Yet it was a Crime deserving the Doom of Death,
    since it inferred the disowning of Jehovah's Supremacy--Other Texts
    of Scripture, in like manner, refer to something corresponding more
    with a Fortune-teller or Divining Woman than what is now called a
    Witch--Example of the Witch of Endor--Account of her Meeting with
    Saul--Supposed by some a mere Impostor--By others, a Sorceress
    powerful enough to raise the Spirit of the Prophet by her own
    Art--Difficulties attending both Positions--A middle Course adopted,
    supposing that, as in the Case of Balak, the Almighty had, by
    Exertion of His Will, substituted Samuel, or a good Spirit in his
    Character, for the Deception which the Witch intended to
    produce--Resumption of the Argument, showing that the Witch of Endor
    signified something very different from the modern Ideas of
    Witchcraft--The Witches mentioned in the New Testament are not less
    different from modern Ideas than those of the Books of Moses, nor do
    they appear to have possessed the Power ascribed to
    Magicians--Articles of Faith which we may gather from Scripture on
    this point--That there might be certain Powers permitted by the
    Almighty to Inferior, and even Evil Spirits, is possible; and in
    some sense the Gods of the Heathens might be accounted Demons--More
    frequently, and in a general sense, they were but logs of wood,
    without sense or power of any kind, and their worship founded on
    imposture--Opinion that the Oracles were silenced at the Nativity
    adopted by Milton--Cases of Demoniacs--The Incarnate Possessions
    probably ceased at the same time as the intervention of
    Miracles--Opinion of the Catholics--Result, that witchcraft, as the
    Word is interpreted in  the Middle Ages, neither occurs under the
    Mosaic or Gospel Dispensation--It arose in the Ignorant Period, when
    the Christians considered the Gods of the Mahommedan or Heathen
    Nations as Fiends, and their Priests as Conjurers or
    Wizards--Instance as to the Saracens, and among the Northern
    Europeans yet unconverted--The Gods of Mexico and Peru explained on
    the same system--Also the Powahs of North America--Opinion of
    Mather--Gibb, a supposed Warlock, persecuted by the other
    Dissenters--Conclusion.

What degree of communication might have existed between the human race and the inhabitants
of the other world had our first parents kept the commands of the Creator, can only be subject
of unavailing speculation. We do not, perhaps, presume too much when we suppose, with Milton,
that one necessary consequence of eating the "fruit of that forbidden tree" was removing to
a wider distance from celestial essences the beings who, although originally but a little lower
than the angels, had, by their own crime, forfeited the gift of immortality, and degraded themselves
into an inferior rank of creation.

Some communication between the spiritual world, by the union of those termed in Scripture "sons
of God" and the daughters of Adam, still continued after the Fall, though their inter-alliance
was not approved of by the Ruler of mankind. We are given to understand--darkly, indeed, but
with as much certainty as we can be entitled to require--that the mixture between the two species
of created beings was sinful on the part of both, and displeasing to the Almighty. It is probable,
also, that the extreme longevity of the antediluvian mortals prevented their feeling sufficiently
that they had brought themselves under the banner of Azrael, the angel of death, and removed
to too great a distance the period between their crime and its punishment. The date of the
avenging Flood gave birth to a race whose life was gradually shortened, and who, being admitted
to slighter and rarer intimacy with beings who possessed a higher rank in creation, assumed,
as of course, a lower position in the scale. Accordingly, after this period we hear no more
of those unnatural alliances which preceded the Flood, and are given to understand that mankind,
dispersing into different parts of the world, separated from each other, and began, in various
places, and under separate auspices, to pursue the work of replenishing the world, which had
been imposed upon them as an end of their creation. In the meantime, while the Deity was pleased
to continue his manifestations to those who were destined to be the fathers of his elect people,
we are made to understand that wicked men--it may be by the assistance of fallen angels--were
enabled to assert rank with, and attempt to match, the prophets of the God of Israel. The matter
must remain uncertain whether it was by sorcery or legerdemain that the wizards of Pharaoh,
King of Egypt, contended with Moses, in the face of the prince and people, changed their rods
into serpents, and imitated several of the plagues denounced against the devoted kingdom. Those
powers of the Magi, however, whether obtained by supernatural communications, or arising from
knowledge of legerdemain and its kindred accomplishments, were openly exhibited; and who can
doubt that--though we may be left in some darkness both respecting the extent of their skill
and the source from which it was drawn--we are told all which it can be important for us to
know? We arrive here at the period when the Almighty chose to take upon himself directly to
legislate for his chosen people, without having obtained any accurate knowledge whether the
crime of witchcraft, or the intercourse between the spiritual world and embodied beings, for
evil purposes, either existed after the Flood, or was visited with any open marks of Divine
displeasure.

But in the law of Moses, dictated by the Divinity himself, was announced a text, which, as
interpreted literally, having been inserted into the criminal code of all Christian nations,
has occasioned much cruelty and bloodshed, either from its tenor being misunderstood, or that,
being exclusively calculated for the Israelites, it made part of the judicial Mosaic dispensation,
and was abrogated, like the greater part of that law, by the more benign and clement dispensation
of the Gospel.

The text alluded to is that verse of the twenty-second chapter of Exodus bearing, "men shall
not suffer a witch to live." Many learned men have affirmed that in this remarkable passage
the Hebrew word CHASAPH means nothing more than poisoner, although, like the word veneficus,
by which it is rendered in the Latin version of the Septuagint, other learned men contend that
it hath the meaning of a witch also, and may be understood as denoting a person who pretended
to hurt his or her neighbours in life, limb, or goods, either by noxious potions, by charms,
or similar mystical means. In this particular the witches of Scripture had probably some resemblance
to those of ancient Europe, who, although their skill and power might be safely despised, as
long as they confined themselves to their charms and spells, were very apt to eke out their
capacity of mischief by the use of actual poison, so that the epithet of sorceress and poisoner
were almost synonymous. This is known to have been the case in many of those darker iniquities
which bear as their characteristic something connected with hidden and prohibited arts. Such
was the statement in the indictment of those concerned in the famous murder of Sir Thomas Overbury,
when the arts of Forman and other sorcerers having been found insufficient to touch the victim's
life, practice by poison was at length successfully resorted to; and numerous similar instances
might be quoted. But supposing that the Hebrew witch proceeded only by charms, invocations,
or such means as might be innoxious, save for the assistance of demons or familiars, the connexion
between the conjurer and the demon must have been of a very different character under the law
of Moses, from that which was conceived in latter days to constitute witchcraft. At least there
is not a word in Scripture authorizing us to believe that such a system existed. On the contrary,
we are told (how far literally, how far metaphorically, it is not for us to determine) that,
when the Enemy of mankind desired to probe the virtue of Job to the bottom, he applied for
permission to the Supreme Governor of the world, who granted him liberty to try his faithful
servant with a storm of disasters, for the more brilliant exhibition of the faith which he
reposed in his Maker. In all this, had the scene occurred after the manner of the like events
in latter days, witchcraft, sorceries, and charms would have been introduced, and the Devil,
instead of his own permitted agency, would have employed his servant the witch as the necessary
instrument of the Man of Uzz's afflictions. In like manner, Satan desired to have Peter, that
he might sift him like wheat. But neither is there here the agency of any sorcerer or witch.
Luke xxii. 31.

Supposing the powers of the witch to be limited, in the time of Moses, to enquiries at some
pretended deity or real evil spirit concerning future events, in what respect, may it be said,
did such a crime deserve the severe punishment of death? To answer this question, we must reflect
that the object of the Mosaic dispensation being to preserve the knowledge of the True Deity
within the breasts of a selected and separated people, the God of Jacob necessarily showed
himself a jealous God to all who, straying from the path of direct worship of Jehovah, had
recourse to other deities, whether idols or evil spirits, the gods of the neighbouring heathen.
The swerving from their allegiance to the true Divinity, to the extent of praying to senseless
stocks and stones which could return them no answer, was, by the Jewish law, an act of rebellion
to their own Lord God, and as such most fit to be punished capitally. Thus the prophets of
Baal were deservedly put to death, not on account of any success which they might obtain by
their intercessions and invocations (which, though enhanced with all their vehemence, to the
extent of cutting and wounding themselves, proved so utterly unavailing as to incur the ridicule
of the prophet), but because they were guilty of apostasy from the real Deity, while they worshipped,
and encouraged others to worship, the false divinity Baal. The Hebrew witch, therefore, or
she who communicated, or attempted to communicate, with an evil spirit, was justly punished
with death, though her communication with the spiritual world might either not exist at all,
or be of a nature much less intimate than has been ascribed to the witches of later days; nor
does the existence of this law, against the witches of the Old Testament sanction, in any respect,
the severity of similar enactments subsequent to the Christian revelation, against a different
class of persons, accused of a very different species of crime.

In another passage, the practices of those persons termed witches in the Holy Scriptures are
again alluded to; and again it is made manifest that the sorcery or witchcraft of the Old Testament
resolves itself into a trafficking with idols, and asking counsel of false deities; in other
words, into idolatry, which, notwithstanding repeated prohibitions, examples, and judgments,
was still the prevailing crime of the Israelites. The passage alluded to is in Deuteronomy
xviii. Similar denunciations occur in the nineteenth and twentieth chapters of Leviticus. In
like manner, it is a charge against Manasses (2 Chronicles xxxviii.) that he caused his children
to pass through the fire, observed times, used enchantments and witchcraft, and dealt with
familiar spirits and with wizards. These passages seem to concur with the former, in classing
witchcraft among other desertions of the prophets of the Deity, in order to obtain responses
by the superstitious practices of the pagan nations around them. To understand the texts otherwise
seems to confound the modern system of witchcraft, with all its unnatural and improbable outrages
on common sense, with the crime of the person who, in classical days, consulted the oracle
of Apollo--a capital offence in a Jew, but surely a venial sin in an ignorant and deluded pagan.

To illustrate the nature of the Hebrew witch and her prohibited criminal traffic, those who
have written on this subject have naturally dwelt upon the interview between Saul and the Witch
of Endor, the only detailed and particular account of such a transaction which is to be found
in the Bible; a fact, by the way, which proves that the crime of witchcraft (capitally punished
as it was when discovered) was not frequent among the chosen people, who enjoyed such peculiar
manifestations of the Almighty's presence. The Scriptures seem only to have conveyed to us
the general fact (being what is chiefly edifying) of the interview between the witch and the
King of Israel. They inform us that Saul, disheartened and discouraged by the general defection
of his subjects, and the consciousness of his own unworthy and ungrateful disobedience, despairing
of obtaining an answer from the offended Deity, who had previously communicated with him through
his prophets, at length resolved, in his desperation, to go to a divining woman, by which course
he involved himself in the crime of the person whom he thus consulted, against whom the law
denounced death--a sentence which had been often executed by Saul himself on similar offenders.
Scripture proceeds to give us the general information that the king directed the witch to call
up the Spirit of Samuel, and that the female exclaimed that gods had arisen out of the earth--that
Saul, more particularly requiring a description of the apparition (whom, consequently, he did
not himself see), she described it as the figure of an old man with a mantle. In this figure
the king acknowledges the resemblance of Samuel, and sinking on his face, hears from the apparition,
speaking in the character of the prophet, the melancholy prediction of his own defeat and death.

In this description, though all is told which is necessary to convey to us an awful moral lesson,
yet we are left ignorant of the minutiæ attending the apparition, which perhaps we ought to
accept as a sure sign that there was no utility in our being made acquainted with them. It
is impossible, for instance, to know with certainty whether Saul was present when the woman
used her conjuration, or whether he himself personally ever saw the appearance which the Pythoness
described to him. It is left still more doubtful whether anything supernatural was actually
evoked, or whether the Pythoness and her assistant meant to practise a mere deception, taking
their chance to prophesy the defeat and death of the broken-spirited king as an event which
the circumstances in which he was placed rendered highly probable, since he was surrounded
by a superior army of Philistines, and his character as a soldier rendered it likely that he
would not survive a defeat which must involve the loss of his kingdom. On the other hand, admitting
that the apparition had really a supernatural character, it remains equally uncertain what
was its nature or by what power it was compelled to an appearance, unpleasing, as it intimated,
since the supposed spirit of Samuel asks wherefore he was disquieted in the grave. Was the
power of the witch over the invisible world so great that, like the Erictho of the heathen
poet, she could disturb the sleep of the just, and especially that of a prophet so important
as Samuel; and are we to suppose that he, upon whom the Spirit of the Lord was wont to descend,
even while he was clothed with frail mortality, should be subject to be disquieted in his grave
at the voice of a vile witch, and the command of an apostate prince? Did the true Deity refuse
Saul the response of his prophets, and could a witch compel the actual spirit of Samuel to
make answer notwithstanding?

Embarrassed by such difficulties, another course of explanation has been resorted to, which,
freed from some of the objections which attend the two extreme suppositions, is yet liable
to others. It has been supposed that something took place upon this remarkable occasion similar
to that which disturbed the preconcerted purpose of the prophet Balaam, and compelled him to
exchange his premeditated curses for blessings. According to this hypothesis, the divining
woman of Endor was preparing to practise upon Saul those tricks of legerdemain or jugglery
by which she imposed upon meaner clients who resorted to her oracle. Or we may conceive that
in those days, when the laws of Nature were frequently suspended by manifestations of the Divine
Power, some degree of juggling might be permitted between mortals and the spirits of lesser
note; in which case we must suppose that the woman really expected or hoped to call up some
supernatural appearance. But in either case, this second solution of the story supposes that
the will of the Almighty substituted, on that memorable occasion, for the phantasmagoria intended
by the witch, the spirit of Samuel in his earthly resemblance--or, if the reader may think
this more likely, some good being, the messenger of the Divine pleasure, in the likeness of
the departed prophet--and, to the surprise of the Pythoness herself, exchanged the juggling
farce: of sheer deceit or petty sorcery which she had intended to produce, for a deep tragedy,
capable of appalling the heart of the hardened tyrant, and furnishing an awful lesson to future
times.

This exposition has the advantage of explaining the surprise expressed by the witch at the
unexpected consequences of her own invocation, while it removes the objection of supposing
the spirit of Samuel subject to her influence. It does not apply so well to the complaint of
Samuel that he was disquieted, since neither the prophet, nor any good angel wearing his likeness,
could be supposed to complain of an apparition which took place in obedience to the direct
command of the Deity. If, however, the phrase is understood, not as a murmuring against the
pleasure of Providence, but as a reproach to the prophet's former friend Saul, that his sins
and discontents, which were the ultimate cause of Samuel's appearance, had withdrawn the prophet
for a space from the enjoyment and repose of Heaven, to review this miserable spot of mortality,
guilt, grief, and misfortune, the words may, according to that interpretation, wear no stronger
sense of complaint than might become the spirit of a just man made perfect, or any benevolent
angel by whom he might be represented. It may be observed that in Ecclesiasticus (xlvi. 19,
20), the opinion of Samuel's actual appearance is adopted, since it is said of this man of
God, that after death he prophesied, and showed the king his latter end.

Leaving the further discussion of this dark and difficult question to those whose studies have
qualified them to give judgment on so obscure a subject, it so far appears clear that the Witch
of Endor, was not a being such as those believed in by our ancestors, who could transform themselves
and others into the appearance of the lower animals, raise and allay tempests, frequent the
company and join the revels of evil spirits, and, by their counsel and assistance, destroy
human lives, and waste the fruits of the earth, or perform feats of such magnitude as to alter
the face of Nature. The Witch of Endor was a mere fortune-teller, to whom, in despair of all
aid or answer from the Almighty, the unfortunate King of Israel had recourse in his despair,
and by whom, in some way or other, he obtained the awful certainty of his own defeat and death.
She was liable, indeed, deservedly to the punishment of death for intruding herself upon the
task of the real prophets, by whom the will of God was at that time regularly made known. But
her existence and her crimes can go no length to prove the possibility that another class of
witches, no otherwise resembling her than as called by the same name, either existed at a more
recent period, or were liable to the same capital punishment, for a very different and much
more doubtful class of offences, which, however odious, are nevertheless to be proved possible
before they can be received as a criminal charge.

Whatever may be thought of other occasional expressions in the Old Testament, it cannot be
said that, in any part of that sacred volume, a text occurs indicating the existence of a system
of witchcraft, under the Jewish dispensation, in any respect similar to that against which
the law-books of so many European nations have, till very lately, denounced punishment; far
less under the Christian dispensation--a system under which the emancipation of the human race
from the Levitical law was happily and miraculously perfected. This latter crime is supposed
to infer a compact implying reverence and adoration on the part of the witch who comes under
the fatal bond, and patronage, support, and assistance on the part of the diabolical patron.
Indeed, in the four Gospels, the word, under any sense, does not occur; although, had the possibility
of so enormous a sin been admitted, it was not likely to escape the warning censure of the
Divine Person who came to take away the sins of the world. Saint Paul, indeed, mentions the
sin of witchcraft, in a cursory manner, as superior in guilt to that of ingratitude; and in
the offences of the flesh it is ranked immediately after idolatry, which juxtaposition inclines
us to believe that the witchcraft mentioned by the Apostle must have been analogous to that
of the Old Testament, and equivalent to resorting to the assistance of soothsayers, or similar
forbidden arts, to acquire knowledge of toturity. Sorcerers are also joined with other criminals,
in the Book of Revelations, as excluded from the city of God And with these occasional notices,
which indicate that there was a transgression so called, but leave us ignorant of us exact
nature, the writers upon witchcraft attempt to wring out of the New Testament proofs of a crime
in itself so disgustingly improbable. Neither do the exploits of Elymas, called the Sorcerer,
or Simon, called Magus or the Magician, entitle them to rank above the class of impostors who
assumed a character to which they had no real title, and put their own mystical and ridiculous
pretensions to supernatural power in competition with those who had been conferred on purpose
to diffuse the gospel, and facilitate its reception by the exhibition of genuine miracles.
It is clear that, from his presumptuous and profane proposal to acquire, by purchase, a portion
of those powers which were directly derived from inspiration, Simon Magus displayed a degree
of profane and brutal ignorance inconsistent with his possessing even the intelligence of a
skilful impostor; and it is plain that a leagued vassal of hell--should we pronounce him such--would
have better known his own rank and condition, compared to that of the apostles, than to have
made such a fruitless and unavailing proposal, by which he could only expose his own impudence
and ignorance.

With this observation we may conclude our brief remarks upon witchcraft, as the word occurs
in the Scripture; and it now only remains to mention the nature of the demonology, which, as
gathered from the sacred volumes, every Christian believer is bound to receive as a thing declared
and proved to be true.

And in the first place, no man can read the Bible, or call himself a Christian, without believing
that, during the course of time comprehended by the Divine writers, the Deity, to confirm the
faith of the Jews, and to overcome and confound the pride of the heathens, wrought in the land
many great miracles, using either good spirits, the instruments of his pleasure, or fallen
angels, the permitted agents of such evil as it was his will should be inflicted upon, or suffered
by, the children of men. This proposition comprehends, of course, the acknowledgment of the
truth of miracles during this early period, by which the ordinary laws of nature were occasionally
suspended, and recognises the existence in the spiritual world of the two grand divisions of
angels and devils, severally exercising their powers according to the commission or permission
of the Ruler of the universe.

Secondly, wise men have thought and argued that the idols of the heathen were actually fiends,
or, rather, that these enemies of mankind had power to assume the shape and appearance of those
feeble deities, and to give a certain degree of countenance to the faith of the worshippers,
by working seeming miracles, and returning, by their priests or their oracles, responses which
"palter'd in a double sense" with the deluded persons who consulted them. Most of the fathers
of the Christian Church have intimated such an opinion. This doctrine has the advantage of
affording, to a certain extent, a confirmation of many miracles related in pagan or classical
history, which are thus ascribed to the agency of evil spirits. It corresponds also with the
texts of Scripture which declare that the gods of the heathen are all devils and evil spirits;
and the idols of Egypt are classed, as in Isaiah, chap. xix. ver. 2, with charmers, those who
have familiar spirits, and with wizards. But whatever license it may be supposed was permitted
to the evil spirits of that period--and although, undoubtedly, men owned the sway of deities
who were, in fact, but personifications of certain evil passions of humanity, as, for example,
in their sacrifices to Venus, to Bacchus, to Mars, &c., and therefore might be said, in one
sense, to worship evil spirits--we cannot, in reason, suppose that every one, or the thousandth
part of the innumerable idols worshipped among the heathen, was endowed with supernatural power;
it is clear that the greater number fell under the description applied to them in another passage
of Scripture, in which the part of the tree burned in the fire for domestic purposes is treated
as of the same power and estimation as that carved into an image, and preferred for Gentile
homage. This striking passage, in which the impotence of the senseless block, and the brutish
ignorance of the worshipper, whose object of adoration is the work of his own hands, occurs
in the 44th chapter of the prophecies of Isaiah, verse 10 et seq. The precise words of the
text, as well as common sense, forbid us to believe that the images so constructed by common
artisans became the habitation or resting-place of demons, or possessed any manifestation of
strength or power, whether through demoniacal influence or otherwise. The whole system of doubt,
delusion, and trick exhibited by the oracles, savours of the mean juggling of impostors, rather
than the audacious intervention of demons. Whatever degree of power the false gods of heathendom,
or devils in their name, might be permitted occasionally to exert, was unquestionably under
the general restraint and limitation of providence; and though, on the one hand, we cannot
deny the possibility of such permission being granted in cases unknown to us, it is certain,
on the other, that the Scriptures mention no one specific instance of such influence expressly
recommended to our belief.

Thirdly, as the backsliders among the Jews repeatedly fell off to the worship of the idols
of the neighbouring heathens, so they also resorted to the use of charms and enchantments,
founded on a superstitious perversion of their own Levitical ritual, in which they endeavoured
by sortilege, by Teraphim, by observation of augury, or the flight of birds, which they called
Nahas, by the means of Urim and Thummim, to find as it were a byroad to the secrets of futurity.
But for the same reason that withholds us from delivering any opinion upon the degree to which
the devil and his angels might be allowed to countenance the impositions of the heathen priesthood,
it is impossible for us conclusively to pronounce what effect might be permitted by supreme
Providence to the ministry of such evil spirits as presided over, and, so far as they had liberty,
directed, these sinful enquiries among the Jews themselves. Such were the promises delivered
to the Israelites by Joel, Ezekiel, and other holy seers, of which St. Peter, in the second
chapter of the Acts of the Apostles, hails the fulfilment in the mission of our Saviour. And
on the other hand, it is no less evident that the Almighty, to punish the disobedience of the
Jews, abandoned them to their own fallacious desires, and suffered them to be deceived by the
lying oracles, to which, in flagrant violation of his commands, they had recourse. Of this
the punishment arising from the Deity abandoning Ahab to his own devices, and suffering him
to be deceived by a lying spirit, forms a striking instance.

Fourthly, and on the other hand, abstaining with reverence from accounting ourselves judges
of the actions of Omnipotence, we may safely conclude that it was not his pleasure to employ
in the execution of his judgments the consequences of any such species of league or compact
betwixt devils and deluded mortals, as that denounced in the laws of our own ancestors under
the name of witchcraft. What has been translated by that word seems little more than the art
of a medicator of poisons, combined with that of a Pythoness or false prophetess; a crime,
however, of a capital nature, by the Levitical law, since, in the first capacity, it implied
great enmity to mankind, and in the second, direct treason to the divine Legislator. The book
of Tobit contains, indeed, a passage resembling more an incident in an Arabian tale or Gothic
romance, than a part of inspired writing. In this, the fumes produced by broiling the liver
of a certain fish are described as having power to drive away an evil genius who guards the
nuptial chamber of an Assyrian princess, and who has strangled seven bridegrooms in succession,
as they approached the nuptial couch. But the romantic and fabulous strain of this legend has
induced the fathers of all Protestant churches to deny it a place amongst the writings sanctioned
by divine origin, and we may therefore be excused from entering into discussion on such imperfect
evidence.

Lastly, in considering the incalculable change which took place upon the Advent of our Saviour
and the announcement of his law, we may observe that, according to many wise and learned men,
his mere appearance upon earth, without awaiting the fulfilment of his mission, operated as
an act of banishment of such heathen deities as had hitherto been suffered to deliver oracles,
and ape in some degree the attributes of the Deity.

The quotation is a long one, but it is scarcely possible to shorten what is so beautiful and
interesting a description of the heathen deities, whether in the classic personifications of
Greece, the horrible shapes worshipped by mere barbarians, or the hieroglyphical enormities
of the Egyptian Mythology. The idea of identifying the pagan deities, especially the most distinguished
of them, with the manifestation of demoniac power, and concluding that the descent of our Saviour
struck them with silence, so nobly expressed in the poetry of Milton, is not certainly to be
lightly rejected. It has been asserted, in simple prose, by authorities of no mean weight;
nor does there appear anything inconsistent in the faith of those who, believing that, in the
elder time, fiends and demons were permitted an enlarged degree of power in uttering predictions,
may also give credit to the proposition, that at the Divine Advent that power was restrained,
the oracles silenced, and those demons who had aped the Divinity of the place were driven from
their abode on earth, honoured as it was by a guest so awful.

It must be noticed, however, that this great event had not the same effect on that peculiar
class of fiends who were permitted to vex mortals by the alienation of their minds, and the
abuse of their persons, in the case of what is called Demoniacal possession. In what exact
sense we should understand this word possession it is impossible to discover; but we feel it
impossible to doubt (notwithstanding learned authorities to the contrary) that it was a dreadful
disorder, of a kind not merely natural; and may be pretty well assured that it was suffered
to continue after the Incarnation, because the miracles effected by our Saviour and his apostles,
in curing those tormented in this way, afforded the most direct proofs of his divine mission,
even out of the very mouths of those ejected fiends, the most malignant enemies of a power
to which they dared not refuse homage and obedience. And here is an additional proof that witchcraft,
in its ordinary and popular sense, was unknown at that period; although cases of possession
are repeatedly mentioned in the Gospels and Acts of the Apostles, yet in no one instance do
the devils ejected mention a witch or sorcerer, or plead the commands of such a person, as
the cause of occupying or tormenting the victim;--whereas, in a great proportion of those melancholy
cases of witchcraft with which the records of later times abound, the stress of the evidence
is rested on the declaration of the possessed, or the demon within him, that some old man or
woman in the neighbourhood had compelled the fiend to be the instrument of evil.

It must also be admitted that in another most remarkable respect, the power of the Enemy of
mankind was rather enlarged than bridled or restrained, in consequence of the Saviour coming
upon earth. It is indisputable that, in order that Jesus might have his share in every species
of delusion and persecution which the fallen race of Adam is heir to, he personally suffered
the temptation in the wilderness at the hand of Satan, whom, without resorting to his divine
power, he drove, confuted, silenced, and shamed, from his presence. But it appears, that although
Satan was allowed, upon this memorable occasion, to come on earth with great power, the permission
was given expressly because his time was short.

The indulgence which was then granted to him in a case so unique and peculiar soon passed over
and was utterly restrained. It is evident that, after the lapse of the period during which
it pleased the Almighty to establish His own Church by miraculous displays of power, it could
not consist with his kindness and wisdom to leave the enemy in the possession of the privilege
of deluding men by imaginary miracles calculated for the perversion of that faith which real
miracles were no longer present to support. There would, we presume to say, be a shocking inconsistency
in supposing that false and deceitful prophecies and portents should be freely circulated by
any demoniacal influence, deceiving men's bodily organs, abusing their minds, and perverting
their faith, while the true religion was left by its great Author devoid of every supernatural
sign and token which, in the time of its Founder and His immediate disciples, attested and
celebrated their inappreciable mission. Such a permission on the part of the Supreme Being
would be (to speak under the deepest reverence) an abandonment of His chosen people, ransomed
at such a price, to the snares of an enemy from whom the worst evils were to be apprehended.
Nor would it consist with the remarkable promise in holy writ, that "God will not suffer His
people to be tempted above what they are able to bear." I Cor. X. 13. The Fathers of the Faith
are not strictly agreed at what period the miraculous power was withdrawn from the Church;
but few Protestants are disposed to bring it down beneath the accession of Constantine, when
the Christian religion was fully established in supremacy. The Roman Catholics, indeed, boldly
affirm that the power of miraculous interference with the course of Nature is still in being;
but the enlightened even of this faith, though they dare not deny a fundamental tenet of their
church, will hardly assent to any particular case, without nearly the same evidence which might
conquer the incredulity of their neighbours the Protestants. It is alike inconsistent with
the common sense of either that fiends should be permitted to work marvels which are no longer
exhibited on the part of Heaven, or in behalf of religion.

It will be observed that we have not been anxious to decide upon the limits of probability
on this question. It is not necessary for us to ascertain in what degree the power of Satan
was at liberty to display itself during the Jewish dispensation, or down to what precise period
in the history of the Christian Church cures of demoniacal possession or similar displays of
miraculous power may have occurred. We have avoided controversy on that head, because it comprehends
questions not more doubtful than unedifying. Little benefit could arise from attaining the
exact knowledge of the manner in which the apostate Jews practised unlawful charms or auguries.
After their conquest and dispersion they were remarked among the Romans for such superstitious
practices; and the like, for What we know, may continue to linger among the benighted wanderers
of their race at the present day. But all these things are extraneous to our enquiry, the purpose
of which was to discover whether any real evidence could be derived from sacred history to
prove the early existence of that branch of demonology which has been the object, in comparatively
modern times, of criminal prosecution and capital punishment. We have already alluded to this
as the contract of witchcraft, in which, as the term was understood in the Middle Ages, the
demon and the witch or wizard combined their various powers of doing harm to inflict calamities
upon the person and property, the fortune and the fame, of innocent human beings, imposing
the most horrible diseases, and death itself, as marks of their slightest ill-will; transforming
their own persons and those of others at their pleasure; raising tempests to ravage the crops
of their enemies, or carrying them home to their own garners; annihilating or transferring
to their own dairies the produce of herds; spreading pestilence among cattle, infecting and
blighting children; and, in a word, doing more evil than the heart of man might be supposed
capable of conceiving, by means far beyond mere human power to accomplish. If it could be supposed
that such unnatural leagues existed, and that there were wretches wicked enough, merely for
the gratification of malignant spite or the enjoyment of some beastly revelry, to become the
wretched slaves of infernal spirits, most just and equitable would be those laws which cut
them off from the midst of every Christian commonwealth. But it is still more just and equitable,
before punishment be inflicted for any crime, to prove that there is a possibility of that
crime being committed. We have therefore advanced an important step in our enquiry when we
have ascertained that the witch of the Old Testament was not capable of anything beyond the
administration of baleful drugs or the practising of paltry imposture; in other words, that
she did not hold the character ascribed to a modern sorceress. We have thus removed out of
the argument the startling objection that, in denying the existence of witchcraft, we deny
the possibility of a crime which was declared capital in the Mosaic law, and are left at full
liberty to adopt the opinion, that the more modern system of witchcraft was a part, and by
no means the least gross, of that mass of errors which appeared among the members of the Christian
Church when their religion, becoming gradually corrupted by the devices of men and the barbarism
of those nations among whom it was spread showed, a light indeed, but one deeply tinged with
the remains of that very pagan ignorance which its Divine Founder came to dispel.

We will, in a future part of this enquiry, endeavour to show that many of the particular articles
of the popular belief respecting magic and witchcraft were derived from the opinions which
the ancient heathens entertained as part of their religion. To recommend them, however, they
had principles lying deep in the human mind and heart of all times; the tendency to belief
in supernatural agencies is natural, and indeed seems connected with and deduced from the invaluable
conviction of the certainty of a future state. Moreover, it is very possible that particular
stories of this class may have seemed undeniable in the dark ages, though our better instructed
period can explain them in a satisfactory manner by the excited temperament of spectators,
or the influence of delusions produced by derangement of the intellect or imperfect reports
of the external senses. They obtained, however, universal faith and credit; and the churchmen,
either from craft or from ignorance, favoured the progress of a belief which certainly contributed
in a most powerful manner to extend their own authority over the human mind.

To pass from the pagans of antiquity--the Mahommedans, though their profession of faith is
exclusively unitarian, were accounted worshippers of evil spirits, who were supposed to aid
them in their continual warfare against the Christians, or to protect and defend them in the
Holy Land, where their abode gave so much scandal and offence to the devout. Romance, and even
history, combined in representing all who were out of the pale of the Church as the personal
vassals of Satan, who played his deceptions openly amongst them; and Mahound, Termagaunt, and
Apollo were, in the opinion of the Western Crusaders, only so many names of the arch-fiend
and his principal angels. The most enormous fictions spread abroad and believed through Christendom
attested the fact, that there were open displays of supernatural aid afforded by the evil spirits
to the Turks and Saracens; and fictitious reports were not less liberal in assigning to the
Christians extraordinary means of defence through the direct protection of blessed saints and
angels, or of holy men yet in the flesh, but already anticipating the privileges proper to
a state of beatitude and glory, and possessing the power to work miracles.

To show the extreme grossness of these legends, we may give an example from the romance of
"Richard Coeur de Lion," premising at the same time that, like other romances, it was written
in what the author designed to be the style of true history, and was addressed to hearers and
readers, not as a tale of fiction, but a real narrative of facts, so that the legend is a proof
of what the age esteemed credible and were disposed to believe as much as if had been extracted
from a graver chronicle.

The renowned Saladin, it is said, had dispatched an embassy to King Richard, with the present
of a colt recommended as a gallant war-horse, challenging Coeur de Lion to meet him in single
combat between the armies, for the purpose of deciding at once their pretensions to the land
of Palestine, and the theological question whether the God of the Christians, or Jupiter, the
deity of the Saracens, should be the future object of adoration by the subjects of both monarchs.
Now, under this seemingly chivalrous defiance was concealed a most unknightly stratagem, and
which we may at the same time call a very clumsy trick for the devil to be concerned in. A
Saracen clerk had conjured two devils into a mare and her colt, with the instruction, that
whenever the mare neighed, the foal, which was a brute of uncommon size, should kneel down
to suck his dam. The enchanted foal was sent to King Richard in the belief that the foal, obeying
the signal of its dam as usual, the Soldan who mounted the mare might get an easy advantage
over him.

But the English king was warned by an angel in a dream of the intended stratagem, and the colt
was, by the celestial mandate, previously to the combat, conjured in the holy name to be obedient
to his rider during the encounter. The fiend-horse intimated his submission by drooping his
head, but his word was not entirely credited. His ears were stopped with wax. In this condition,
Richard, armed at all points and with various marks of his religious faith displayed on his
weapons, rode forth to meet Saladin, and the Soldan, confident of his stratagem, encountered
him boldly. The mare neighed till she shook the ground for miles around; but the sucking devil,
whom the wax prevented from hearing the summons, could not obey the signal. Saladin was dismounted,
and narrowly escaped death, while his army were cut to pieces by the Christians. It is but
an awkward tale of wonder where a demon is worsted by a trick which could hardly have cheated
a common horse-jockey; but by such legends our ancestors were amused and interested, till their
belief respecting the demons of the Holy Land seems to have been not very far different from
that expressed in the title of Ben Jonson's play, "The Devil is an Ass."

One of the earliest maps ever published, which appeared at Rome in the sixteenth century, intimates
a similar belief in the connexion of the heathen nations of the north of Europe with the demons
of the spiritual world. In Esthonia, Lithuania, Courland, and such districts, the chart, for
want, it may be supposed, of an accurate account of the country, exhibits rude cuts of the
fur-clad natives paying homage at the shrines of demons, who make themselves visibly present
to them; while at other places they are displayed as doing battle with the Teutonic knights,
or other military associations formed for the conversion or expulsion of the heathens in these
parts. Amid the pagans, armed with scimitars and dressed in caftans, the fiends are painted
as assisting them, pourtrayed in all the modern horrors of the cloven foot, or, as the Germans
term it, horse's foot, bat wings, saucer eyes, locks like serpents, and tail like a dragon.
These attributes, it may be cursorily noticed, themselves intimate the connexion of modern
demonology with the mythology of the ancients. The cloven foot is the attribute of Pan--to
whose talents for inspiring terror we owe the word panic--the snaky tresses are borrowed from
the shield of Minerva, and the dragon train alone seems to be connected with the Scriptural
history.[5]

[Footnote 5: The chart alluded to is one of the jac-similes of an ancient planisphere, engraved
in bronze about the end of the 15th century, and called the Borgian Table, from its possessor,
Cardinal Stephen Borgia, and preserved in his museum at Veletri.]

Other heathen nations, whose creeds could not have directly contributed to the system of demonology,
because their manners and even their very existence was unknown when it was adopted, were nevertheless
involved, so soon as Europeans became acquainted with them, in the same charge of witchcraft
and worship of demons brought by the Christians of the Middle Ages against the heathens of
northern Europe and the Mahommedans of the East. We learn from the information of a Portuguese
voyager that even the native Christians (called those of St. Thomas), whom the discoverers
found in India when they first arrived there, fell under suspicion of diabolical practices.
It was almost in vain that the priests of one of their chapels produced to the Portuguese officers
and soldiers a holy image, and called on them, as good Christians, to adore the Blessed Virgin.
The sculptor had been so little acquainted with his art, and the hideous form which he had
produced resembled an inhabitant of the infernal regions so much more than Our Lady of Grace,
that one of the European officers, while, like his companions, he dropped on his knees, added
the loud protest, that if the image represented the Devil, he paid his homage to the Holy Virgin.

In South America the Spaniards justified the unrelenting cruelties exercised on the unhappy
natives by reiterating, in all their accounts of the countries which they discovered and conquered,
that the Indians, in their idol worship, were favoured by the demons with a direct intercourse,
and that their priests inculcated doctrines and rites the foulest and most abhorrent to Christian
ears. The great snake-god of Mexico, and other idols worshipped with human sacrifices and bathed
in the gore of their prisoners, gave but too much probability to this accusation; and if the
images themselves were not actually tenanted by evil spirits, the worship which the Mexicans
paid to them was founded upon such deadly cruelty and dark superstition as might easily be
believed to have been breathed into mortals by the agency of hell.

Even in North America, the first settlers in New England and other parts of that immense continent
uniformly agreed that they detected among the inhabitants traces of an intimate connexion with
Satan. It is scarce necessary to remark that this opinion was founded exclusively upon the
tricks practised by the native powahs, or cunning men, to raise themselves to influence among
the chiefs, and to obtain esteem with the people, which, possessed as they were professionally
of some skill in jugglery and the knowledge of some medical herbs and secrets, the understanding
of the colonists was unable to trace to their real source--legerdemain and imposture. By the
account, however, of the Reverend Cotton Mather, in his Magnalia, book vi.,[6] he does not
ascribe to these Indian conjurers any skill greatly superior to a maker of almanacks or common
fortune-teller. "They," says the Doctor, "universally acknowledged and worshipped many gods,
and therefore highly esteemed and reverenced their priests, powahs, or wizards, who were esteemed
as having immediate converse with the gods. To them, therefore, they addressed themselves in
all difficult cases: yet could not all that desired that dignity, as they esteemed it, obtain
familiarity with the infernal spirits. Nor were all powahs alike successful in their addresses;
but they became such, either by immediate revelation, or in the use of certain rites and ceremonies,
which tradition had left as conducing to that end. In so much, that parents, out of zeal, often
dedicated their children to the gods, and educated them accordingly, observing a certain diet,
debarring sleep, &c.: yet of the many designed, but few obtained their desire. Supposing that
where the practice of witchcraft has been highly esteemed, there must be given the plainest
demonstration of mortals having familiarity with infernal spirits, I am willing to let my reader
know, that, not many years since, here died one of the powahs, who never pretended to astrological
knowledge, yet could precisely inform such who desired his assistance, from whence goods stolen
from them were gone, and whither carried, with many things of the like nature; nor was he ever
known to endeavour to conceal his knowledge to be immediately from a god subservient to him
that the English worship. This powah, being by an Englishman worthy of credit (who lately informed
me of the same), desired to advise him who had taken certain goods which had been stolen, having
formerly been an eye-witness of his ability, the powah, after a little pausing, demanded why
he requested that from him, since himself served another God? that therefore he could not help
him; but added, 'If you can believe that my god may help you, I will try what I can do; which
diverted the man from further enquiry. I must a little digress, and tell my reader, that this
powah's wife was accounted a godly woman, and lived in the practice and profession of the Christian
religion, not only by the approbation, but encouragement of her husband. She constantly prayed
in the family, and attended the public worship on the Lord's days. He declared that he could
not blame her, for that she served a god that was above his; but that as to himself, his god's
continued kindness obliged him not to forsake his service." It appears, from the above and
similar passages, that Dr. Cotton Mather, an honest and devout, but sufficiently credulous
man, had mistaken the purpose of the tolerant powah. The latter only desired to elude the necessity
of his practices being brought under the observant eye of an European, while he found an ingenious
apology in the admitted superiority which he naturally conceded to the Deity of a people, advanced,
as he might well conceive, so far above his own in power and attainments, as might reasonably
infer a corresponding superiority in the nature and objects of their worship.

[Footnote 6: "On Remarkable Mercies of Divine Providence."]

From another narrative we are entitled to infer that the European wizard was held superior
to the native sorcerer of North America. Among the numberless extravagances of the Scottish
Dissenters of the 17th century, now canonized in a lump by those who view them in the general
light of enemies to Prelacy, was a certain ship-master, called, from his size, Meikle John
Gibb. This man, a person called Jamie, and one or two other men, besides twenty or thirty females
who adhered to them, went the wildest lengths of enthusiasm. Gibb headed a party, who followed
him into the moorlands, and at the Ford Moss, between Airth and Stirling, burned their Bibles,
as an act of solemn adherence to their new faith. They were apprehended in consequence, and
committed to prison; and the rest of the Dissenters, however differently they were affected
by the persecution of Government, when it applied to themselves, were nevertheless much offended
that these poor mad people were not brought to capital punishment for their blasphemous extravagances;
and imputed it as a fresh crime to the Duke of York that, though he could not be often accused
of toleration, he considered the discipline of the house of correction as more likely to bring
the unfortunate Gibbites to their senses than the more dignified severities of a public trial
and the gallows. The Cameronians, however, did their best to correct this scandalous lenity.
As Meikle John Gibb, who was their comrade in captivity, used to disturb their worship in jail
by his maniac howling, two of them took turn about to hold him down by force, and silence him
by a napkin thrust into his mouth. This mode of quieting the unlucky heretic, though sufficiently
emphatic, being deemed ineffectual or inconvenient, George Jackson, a Cameronian, who afterwards
suffered at the gallows, dashed the maniac with his feet and hands against the wall, and beat
him so severely that the rest were afraid that he had killed him outright. After which specimen
of fraternal chastisement, the lunatic, to avoid the repetition of the discipline, whenever
the prisoners began worship, ran behind the door, and there, with his own napkin crammed into
his mouth, sat howling like a chastised cur. But on being finally transported to America, John
Gibb, we are assured, was much admired by the heathen for his familiar converse with the devil
bodily, and offering sacrifices to him. "He died there," says Walker, "about the year 1720."[7]
We must necessarily infer that the pretensions of the natives to supernatural communication
could not be of a high class, since we find them honouring this poor madman as their superior;
and, in general, that the magic, or powahing, of the North American Indians was not of a nature
to be much apprehended by the British colonists, since the natives themselves gave honour and
precedence to those Europeans who came among them with the character of possessing intercourse
with the spirits whom they themselves professed to worship.

[Footnote 7: See Patrick Walker's "Biographia Presbyteriana," vol. ii. p. 23; also "God's Judgment
upon Persecutors," and Wodrow's "History," upon the article John Gibb.]

Notwithstanding this inferiority on the part of the powahs, it occurred to the settlers that
the heathen Indians and Roman Catholic Frenchmen were particularly favoured by the demons,
who sometimes adopted their appearance, and showed themselves in their likeness, to the great
annoyance of the colonists. Thus, in the year 1692, a party of real or imaginary French and
Indians exhibited themselves occasionally to the colonists of the town of Gloucester, in the
county of Essex, New England, alarmed the country around very greatly, skirmished repeatedly
with the English, and caused the raising of two regiments, and the dispatching a strong reinforcement
to the assistance of the settlement. But as these visitants, by whom they were plagued more
than a fortnight, though they exchanged fire with the settlers, never killed or scalped any
one, the English became convinced that they were not real Indians and Frenchmen, but that the
devil and his agents had assumed such an appearance, although seemingly not enabled effectually
to support it, for the molestation of the colony.[8]

[Footnote 8: "Magnalia," book vii. article xviii. The fact is also alleged in the "Life of
Sir William Phipps."]

It appears, then, that the ideas of superstition which the more ignorant converts to the Christian
faith borrowed from the wreck of the classic mythology, were so rooted in the minds of their
successors, that these found corroboration of their faith in demonology in the practice of
every pagan nation whose destiny it was to encounter them as enemies, and that as well within
the limits of Europe as in every other part of the globe to which their arms were carried.
In a word, it may be safely laid down, that the commonly received doctrine of demonology, presenting
the same general outlines, though varied according to the fancy of particular nations, existed
through all Europe. It seems to have been founded originally on feelings incident to the human
heart, or diseases to which the human frame is liable--to have been largely augmented by what
classic superstitions survived the ruins of paganism--and to have received new contributions
from the opinions collected among the barbarous nations, whether of the east or of the west.
It is now necessary to enter more minutely into the question, and endeavour to trace from what
especial sources the people of the Middle Ages derived those notions which gradually assumed
the shape of a regular system of demonology.

LETTER III.

    Creed of Zoroaster--Received partially into most Heathen
    Nations--Instances among the Celtic Tribes of Scotland--Beltane
    Feast--Gudeman's Croft--Such abuses admitted into Christianity after
    the earlier Ages of the Church--Law of the Romans against Witchcraft
    --Roman customs survive the fall of their
    Religion--Instances--Demonology of the Northern
    Barbarians--Nicksas--Bhargeist--Correspondence between the Northern
    and Roman Witches--The power of Fascination ascribed to the
    Sorceresses--Example from the "Eyrbiggia Saga"--The Prophetesses of
    the Germans--The Gods of Valhalla not highly regarded by their
    Worshippers--Often defied by the Champions--Demons of the
    North--Story of Assueit and Asmund--Action of Ejectment against
    Spectres--Adventure of a Champion with the Goddess Freya--Conversion
    of the Pagans of Iceland to Christianity--Northern Superstitions
    mixed with those of the Celts--Satyrs of the North--Highland
    Ourisk--Meming the Satyr.

The creed of Zoroaster, which naturally occurs to unassisted reason as a mode of accounting
for the mingled existence of good and evil in the visible world--that belief which, in one
modification or another, supposes the co-existence of a benevolent and malevolent principle,
which contend together without either being able decisively to prevail over his antagonist,
leads the fear and awe deeply impressed on the human mind to the worship as well of the author
of evil, so tremendous in all the effects of which credulity accounts him the primary cause,
as to that of his great opponent, who is loved and adored as the father of all that is good
and bountiful. Nay, such is the timid servility of human nature that the worshippers will neglect
the altars of the Author of good rather than that of Arimanes, trusting with indifference to
the well-known mercy of the one, while they shrink from the idea of irritating the vengeful
jealousy of the awful father of evil.

The Celtic tribes, by whom, under various denominations, Europe seems to have been originally
peopled, possessed, in common with other savages, a natural tendency to the worship of the
evil principle. They did not, perhaps, adore Arimanes under one sole name, or consider the
malignant divinities as sufficiently powerful to undertake a direct struggle with the more
benevolent gods; yet they thought it worth while to propitiate them by various expiatory rites
and prayers, that they, and the elementary tempests which they conceived to be under their
direct command, might be merciful to suppliants who had acknowledged their power, and deprecated
their vengeance.

Remains of these superstitions might be traced till past the middle of the last century, though
fast becoming obsolete, or passing into mere popular customs of the country, which the peasantry
observe without thinking of their origin. About 1769, when Mr. Pennant made his tour, the ceremony
of the Baaltein, Beltane, or First of May, though varying in different districts of the Highlands,
was yet in strict observance, and the cake, which was then baken with scrupulous attention
to certain rites and forms, was divided into fragments, which were formally dedicated to birds
or beasts of prey that they, or rather the being whose agents they were, might spare the flocks
and herds.[9]

[Footnote 9: See Tennant's "Scottish Tour," vol. i. p. III. The traveller mentions that some
festival of the same kind was in his time observed in Gloucestershire.]

Another custom of similar origin lingered late among us. In many parishes of Scotland there
was suffered to exist a certain portion of land, called the gudeman's croft, which was never
ploughed or cultivated, but suffered to remain waste, like the TEMENOS of a pagan temple, Though
it was not expressly avowed, no one doubted that "the goodman's croft" was set apart for some
evil being; in fact, that it was the portion of the arch-fiend himself, whom our ancestors
distinguished by a name which, while it was generally understood, could not, it was supposed,
be offensive to the stern inhabitant of the regions of despair. This was so general a custom
that the Church published an ordinance against it as an impious and blasphemous usage.

This singular custom sunk before the efforts of the clergy in the seventeenth century; but
there must still be many alive who, in childhood, have been taught to look with wonder on knolls
and patches of ground left uncultivated, because, whenever a ploughshare entered the soil,
the elementary spirits were supposed to testify their displeasure by storm and thunder. Within
our own memory, many such places, sanctified to barrenness by some favourite popular superstition,
existed, both in Wales and Ireland, as well as in Scotland; but the high price of agricultural
produce during the late war renders it doubtful if a veneration for greybearded superstition
has suffered any one of them to remain undesecrated. For the same reason the mounts called
Sith Bhruaith were respected, and it was deemed unlawful and dangerous to cut wood, dig earth
and stones, or otherwise disturb them.[10]

[Footnote 10: See "Essay on the Subterranean Commonwealth," by Mr. Robert Kirke, minister of
Aberfoyle.]

Now, it may at first sight seem strange that the Christian religion should have permitted the
existence of such gross and impious relics of heathenism, in a land where its doctrines had
obtained universal credence. But this will not appear so wonderful when it is recollected that
the original Christians under the heathen emperors were called to conversion by the voice of
apostles and saints, invested for the purpose with miraculous powers, as well of language,
for communicating their doctrine to the Gentiles, as of cures, for the purpose of authenticating
their mission. These converts must have been in general such elect persons as were effectually
called to make part of the infant church; and when hypocrites ventured, like Ananias and Sapphira,
to intrude themselves into so select an association, they were liable, at the Divine pleasure,
to be detected and punished. On the contrary, the nations who were converted after Christianity
had become the religion of the empire were not brought within the pale upon such a principle
of selection, as when the church consisted of a few individuals, who had, upon conviction,
exchanged the errors of the pagan religion for the dangers and duties incurred by those who
embraced a faith inferring the self-denial of its votaries, and at the same time exposing them
to persecution. When the cross became triumphant, and its cause no longer required the direction
of inspired men, or the evidence of miracles, to compel reluctant belief, it is evident that
the converts who thronged into the fold must have, many of them, entered because Christianity
was the prevailing faith--many because it was the church, the members of which rose most readily
to promotion--many, finally, who, though content to resign the worship of pagan divinities,
could not at once clear their minds of heathen ritual and heathen observances, which they inconsistently
laboured to unite with the more simple and majestic faith that disdained such impure union.
If this was the case, even in the Roman empire, where the converts to the Christian faith must
have found, among the earlier members of the church, the readiest and the soundest instruction,
how much more imperfectly could those foreign and barbarous tribes receive the necessary religious
information from some zealous and enthusiastic preacher, who christened them by hundreds in
one day? Still less could we imagine them to have acquired a knowledge of Christianity, in
the genuine and perfect sense of the word, when, as was frequently the case, they only assumed
the profession of the religion that had become the choice of some favoured chief, whose example
they followed in mere love and loyalty, without, perhaps, attaching more consequence to a change
of religion than to a change of garments. Such hasty converts, professing themselves Christians,
but neither weaned from their old belief, nor instructed in their new one, entered the sanctuary
without laying aside the superstitions with which their young minds had been imbued; and accustomed
to a plurality of deities, some of them, who bestowed unusual thought on the matter, might
be of opinion that, in adopting the God of the Christians, they had not renounced the service
of every inferior power.

If, indeed, the laws of the empire could have been supposed to have had any influence over
those fierce barbarians, who conceived that the empire itself lay before them as a spoil, they
might have been told that Constantine, taking the offence of alleged magicians and sorcerers
in the same light in which it was viewed in the law of Moses, had denounced death against any
who used these unlawful enquiries into futurity. "Let the unlawful curiosity of prying into
futurity," says the law, "be silent in every one henceforth and for ever.[11] For, subjected
to the avenging sword of the law, he shall be punished capitally who disobeys our commands
in this matter."

[Footnote 11: "Codex," lib. ix. tit. 18, cap. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8.]

If, however, we look more closely into this enactment, we shall be led to conclude that the
civil law does not found upon the prohibitions and penalties in Scripture; although it condemns
the ars mathematica (for the most mystic and uncertain of all sciences, real or pretended,
at that time held the title which now distinguishes the most exact) as a damnable art, and
utterly interdicted, and declares that the practitioners therein should die by fire, as enemies
of the human race--yet the reason of this severe treatment seems to be different from that
acted upon in the Mosaical institutions. The weight of the crime among the Jews was placed
on the blasphemy of the diviners, and their treason against the theocracy instituted by Jehovah.
The Roman legislators were, on the other hand, moved chiefly by the danger arising to the person
of the prince and the quiet of the state, so apt to be unsettled by every pretence or encouragement
to innovation. The reigning emperors, therefore, were desirous to place a check upon the mathematics
(as they termed the art of divination), much more for a political than a religious cause, since
we observe, in the history of the empire, how often the dethronement or death of the sovereign
was produced by conspiracies or mutinies which took their rise from pretended prophecies. In
this mode of viewing the crime, the lawyers of the lower empire acted upon the example of those
who had compiled the laws of the twelve tables.[12] The mistaken and misplaced devotion which
Horace recommends to the rural nymph, Phidyle, would have been a crime of a deep dye in a Christian
convert, and must have subjected him to excommunication, as one relapsed to the rites of paganism;
but he might indulge his superstition by supposing that though he must not worship Pan or Ceres
as gods, he was at liberty to fear them in their new capacity of fiends. Some compromise between
the fear and the conscience of the new converts, at a time when the church no longer consisted
exclusively of saints, martyrs, and confessors, the disciples of inspired Apostles, led them,
and even their priestly guides, subject like themselves to human passions and errors, to resort
as a charm, if not as an act of worship, to those sacrifices, words, and ritual, by which the
heathen, whom they had succeeded, pretended to arrest evil or procure benefits.

[Footnote 12: By this more ancient code, the punishment of death was indeed denounced against
those who destroyed crops, awakened storms, or brought over to their barns and garners the
fruits of the earth; but, by good fortune, it left the agriculturists of the period at liberty
to use the means they thought most proper to render their fields fertile and plentiful. Pliny
informs us that one Caius Furius Cresinus, a Roman of mean estate, raised larger crops from
a small field than his neighbours could obtain from more ample possessions. He was brought
before the judge upon a charge averring that he conjured the fruits of the earth, produced
by his neighbours' farms, into his own possession. Cresinus appeared, and, having proved the
return of his farm to be the produce of his own hard and unremitting labour, as well as superior
skill, was dismissed with the highest honours.]

When such belief in a hostile principle and its imaginations was become general in the Roman
empire, the ignorance of its conquerors, those wild nations, Franks, Goths, Vandals, Huns,
and similar classes of unrefined humanity, made them prone to an error which there were few
judicious preachers to warn them against; and we ought rather to wonder and admire the Divine
clemency, which imparted to so rude nations the light of the Gospel, and disposed them to receive
a religion so repugnant to their warlike habits, than that they should, at the same time, have
adopted many gross superstitions, borrowed from the pagans, or retained numbers of those which
had made part of their own national forms of heathenism.

Thus, though the thrones of Jupiter and the superior deities of the heathen Pantheon were totally
overthrown and broken to pieces, fragments of their worship and many of their rites survived
the conversion to Christianity--nay, are in existence even at this late and enlightened period,
although those by whom they are practised have not preserved the least memory of their original
purpose. We may hastily mention one or two customs of classical origin, in addition to the
Beltane and those already noticed, which remain as examples that the manners of the Romans
once gave the tone to the greater part of the island of Britain, and at least to the whole
which was to the south of the wall of Severus.

The following customs still linger in the south of Scotland, and belong to this class: The
bride, when she enters the house of her husband, is lifted over the threshold, and to step
on it or over it voluntarily is reckoned a bad omen. This custom was universal in Rome, where
it was observed as keeping in memory the rape of the Sabines, and that it was by a show of
violence towards the females that the object of peopling the city was attained. On the same
occasion a sweet cake, baked for the purpose, is broken above the head of the bride; which
is also a rite of classic antiquity.

In like manner, the Scottish, even of the better rank, avoid contracting marriage in the month
of May, which genial season of flowers and breezes might, in other respects, appear so peculiarly
favourable for that purpose. It was specially objected to the marriage of Mary with the profligate
Earl of Bothwell, that the union was formed within this interdicted month. This prejudice was
so rooted among the Scots that, in 1684, a set of enthusiasts, called Gibbites, proposed to
renounce it, among a long list of stated festivals, fast-days, popish relics, not forgetting
the profane names of the days of the week, names of the months, and all sorts of idle and silly
practices which their tender consciences took an exception to. This objection to solemnize
marriage in the merry month of May, however fit a season for courtship, is also borrowed from
the Roman pagans, which, had these fanatics been aware of it, would have been an additional
reason for their anathema against the practice. The ancients have given us as a maxim, that
it is only bad women who marry in that month.[13]

[Footnote 13: "Malæ nubent Maia."]

The custom of saying God bless you, when a person in company sneezes, is, in like manner, derived
from sternutation being considered as a crisis of the plague at Athens, and the hope that,
when it was attained the patient had a chance of recovery.

But besides these, and many other customs which the various nations of Europe received from
the classical times, and which it is not our object to investigate, they derived from thence
a shoal of superstitious beliefs, which, blended and mingled with those which they brought
with them out of their own country, fostered and formed the materials of a demonological creed
which has descended down almost to our own times. Nixas, or Nicksa, a river or ocean god, worshipped
on the shores of the Baltic, seems to have taken uncontested possession of the attributes of
Neptune. Amid the twilight winters and overpowering tempests of these gloomy regions, he had
been not unnaturally chosen as the power most adverse to man, and the supernatural character
with which he was invested has descended to our time under two different aspects. The Nixa
of the Germans is one of those fascinating and lovely fays whom the ancients termed Naiads;
and unless her pride is insulted or her jealousy awakened by an inconstant lover, her temper
is generally mild and her actions beneficent. The Old Nick known in England is an equally genuine
descendant of the northern sea-god, and possesses a larger portion of his powers and terrors
The British sailor, who fears nothing else, confesses his terror for this terrible being, and
believes him the author of almost all the various calamities to which the precarious life of
a seaman is so continually exposed.

The Bhar-guest, or Bhar-geist, by which name it is generally acknowledged through various country
parts of England, and particularly in Yorkshire, also called a Dobie--a local spectre which
haunts a particular spot under various forms--is a deity, as his name implies, of Teutonic
descent; and if it be true, as the author has been informed, that some families bearing the
name of Dobie carry a phantom or spectre, passant, in their armorial bearings,[14] it plainly
implies that, however the word may have been selected for a proper name, its original derivation
had not then been forgotten.

[Footnote 14: A similar bearing has been ascribed, for the same reason, to those of the name
of Fantome, who carried of old a goblin, or phantom, in a shroud sable passant, on a field
azure. Both bearings are founded on what is called canting heraldry, a species of art disowned
by the writers on the science, yet universally made use of by those who practice the art of
blazonry.]

The classic mythology presented numerous points in which it readily coalesced with that of
the Germans, Danes, and Northmen of a later period. They recognized the power of Erictho, Canidia,
and other sorceresses, whose spell could perplex the course of the elements, intercept the
influence of the sun, and prevent his beneficial operation upon the fruits of the earth, call
down the moon from her appointed sphere, and disturb the original and destined course of Nature
by their words and charms and the power of the evil spirits whom they invoked. They were also
professionally implicated in all such mystic and secret rites and ceremonies as were used to
conciliate the favour of the infernal powers, whose dispositions were supposed as dark and
wayward as their realms were gloomy and dismal. Such hags were frequent agents in the violation
of unburied bodies, and it was believed, by the vulgar at least, that it was dangerous to leave
corpses unguarded lest they should be mangled by the witches, who took from them the most choice
ingredients composing their charms. Above all, it must not be forgotten that these frightful
sorceresses possessed the power of transforming themselves and others into animals, which are
used in their degree of quadrupeds, or in whatever other laborious occupation belongs to the
transformed state. The poets of the heathens, with authors of fiction, such as Lucian and Apuleius,
ascribe all these powers to the witches of the pagan world, combining them with the art of
poisoning, and of making magical philtres to seduce the affections of the young and beautiful;
and such were the characteristics which, in greater or less extent, the people of the Middle
Ages ascribed to the witches of their day.

But in thus adopting the superstitions of the ancients, the conquerors of the Roman Empire
combined them with similar articles of belief which they had brought with them from their original
settlements in the North, where the existence of hags of the same character formed a great
feature in their Sagas and their Chronicles. It requires but a slight acquaintance with these
compositions to enable the reader to recognize in the Galdrakinna of the Scalds the Stryga
or witch-woman of more classical climates. In the northern ideas of witches there was no irreligion
concerned with their lore. On the contrary, the possession of magical knowledge was an especial
attribute of Odin himself; and to intrude themselves upon a deity, and compel him to instruct
them in what they desired to know, was accounted not an act of impiety, but of gallantry and
high courage, among those sons of the sword and the spear. Their matrons possessed a high reputation
for magic, for prophetic powers, for creating illusions; and, if not capable of transformations
of the human body, they were at least able to impose such fascination on the sight of their
enemies as to conceal for a period the objects of which they were in search.

There is a remarkable story in the Eyrbiggia Saga ("Historia Eyranorum"), giving the result
of such a controversy between two of these gifted women, one of whom was determined on discovering
and putting to death the son of the other, named Katla, who in a brawl had cut off the hand
of the daughter-in-law of Geirada. A party detached to avenge this wrong, by putting Oddo to
death, returned deceived by the skill of his mother. They had found only Katla, they said,
spinning flax from a large distaff. "Fools," said Geirada, "that distaff was the man you sought."
They returned, seized the distaff, and burnt it. But this second time, the witch disguised
her son under the appearance of a tame kid. A third time he was a hog, which grovelled among
the ashes. The party returned yet again; augmented as one of Katla's maidens, who kept watch,
informed her mistress, by one in a blue mantle. "Alas!" said Katla, "it is the sorceress Geirada,
against whom spells avail not." Accordingly, the hostile party, entering for the fourth time,
seized on the object of their animosity, and put him to death.[15] This species of witchcraft
is well known in Scotland as the glamour, or deceptio visus, and was supposed to be a special
attribute of the race of Gipsies.

[Footnote 15: Eyrbiggia Saga, in "Northern Antiquities."]

Neither are those prophetesses to be forgotten, so much honoured among the German tribes, that,
as we are assured by Tacitus, they rose to the highest rank in their councils, by their supposed
supernatural knowledge, and even obtained a share in the direction of their armies. This peculiarity
in the habits of the North was so general, that it was no unusual thing to see females, from
respect to their supposed views into futurity, and the degree of divine inspiration which was
vouchsafed to them, arise to the degree of HAXA, or chief priestess, from which comes the word
Hexe, now universally used for a witch; a circumstance which plainly shows that the mythological
system of the ancient natives of the North had given to the modern language an appropriate
word for distinguishing those females who had intercourse with the spiritual world.[16]

[Footnote 16: It may be worth while to notice that the word Haxa is still used in Scotland
in its sense of a druidess, or chief priestess, to distinguish the places where such females
exercised their ritual. There is a species of small intrenchment on the western descent of
the Eildon hills, which Mr. Milne, in his account of the parish of Melrose, drawn up about
eighty years ago, says, was denominated Bourjo, a word of unknown derivation, by which the
place is still known. Here an universal and subsisting tradition bore that human sacrifices
were of yore offered, while the people assisting could behold the ceremony from the elevation
of the glacis which slopes inward. With this place of sacrifice communicated a path, still
discernible, called the Haxell-gate, leading to a small glen or narrow valley called the Haxellcleuch--both
which words are probably derived from the Haxa or chief priestess of the pagans.]

It is undeniable that these Pythonesses were held in high respect while the pagan religion
lasted; but for that very reason they became odious so soon as the tribe was converted to Christianity.
They were, of course, if they pretended to retain their influence, either despised as impostors
or feared as sorceresses; and the more that, in particular instances, they became dreaded for
their power, the more they were detested, under the conviction that they derived it from the
enemy of man. The deities of the northern heathens underwent a similar metamorphosis, resembling
that proposed by Drawcansir in the "Rehearsal," who threatens "to make a god subscribe himself
a devil."

The warriors of the North received this new impression concerning the influence of their deities,
and the source from which it was derived, with the more indifference, as their worship, when
their mythology was most generally established, was never of a very reverential or devotional
character. Their idea of their own merely human prowess was so high, that the champions made
it their boast, as we have already hinted, they would not give way in fight even to the immortal
gods themselves. Such, we learn from Cæsar, was the idea of the Germans concerning the Suevi,
or Swabians, a tribe to whom the others yielded the palm of valour; and many individual stories
are told in the Sagas concerning bold champions, who had fought, not only with the sorcerers,
but with the demigods of the system, and come off unharmed, if not victorious, in the contest.
Hother, for example, encountered the god Thor in battle, as Diomede, in the Iliad, engages
with Mars, and with like success. Bartholsine[17] gives us repeated examples of the same kind.
"Know this," said Kiartan to Olaus Trigguasen, "that I believe neither in idols nor demons.
I have travelled through various strange countries, and have encountered many giants and monsters,
and have never been conquered by them; I therefore put my sole trust in my own strength of
body and courage of soul." Another yet more broad answer was made to St. Olaus, King of Norway,
by Gaukater. "I am neither Pagan nor Christian. My comrades and I profess no other religion
than a perfect confidence in our own strength and invincibility in battle."

[Footnote 17: "De causis contemptæ necis," lib. i. cap 6.]

[Footnote 18: "Æneid," lib. x. line 773.]

To incur the highest extremity of danger became accounted a proof of that insuperable valour
for which every Northman desired to be famed, and their annals afford numerous instances of
encounters with ghosts, witches, furies, and fiends, whom the Kiempé, or champions, compelled
to submit to their mere mortal strength, and yield to their service the weapons or other treasures
which they guarded in their tombs.

The Norsemen were the more prone to these superstitions, because it was a favourite fancy of
theirs that, in many instances, the change from life to death altered the temper of the human
spirit from benignant to malevolent; or perhaps, that when the soul left the body, its departure
was occasionally supplied by a wicked demon, who took the opportunity to enter and occupy its
late habitation.

Upon such a supposition the wild fiction that follows is probably grounded; which, extravagant
as it is, possesses something striking to the imagination. Saxo Grammaticus tells us of the
fame of two Norse princes or chiefs, who had formed what was called a brotherhood in arms,
implying not only the firmest friendship and constant support during all the adventures which
they should undertake in life, but binding them by a solemn compact, that after the death of
either, the survivor should descend alive into the sepulchre of his brother-in-arms, and consent
to be buried alongst with him. The task of fulfilling this dreadful compact fell upon Asmund,
his companion, Assueit, having been slain in battle. The tomb was formed after the ancient
northern custom in what was called the age of hills, that is, when it was usual to bury persons
of distinguished merit or rank on some conspicuous spot, which was crowned with a mound. With
this purpose a deep narrow vault was constructed, to be the apartment of the future tomb over
which the sepulchral heap was to be piled. Here they deposited arms, trophies, poured forth,
perhaps, the blood of victims, introduced into the tomb the war-horses of the champions, and
when these rites had been duly paid, the body of Assueit was placed in the dark and narrow
house, while his faithful brother-in-arms entered and sat down by the corpse, without a word
or look which testified regret or unwillingness to fulfil his fearful engagement. The soldiers
who had witnessed this singular interment of the dead and living, rolled a huge stone to the
mouth of the tomb, and piled so much earth and stones above the spot as made a mound visible
from a great distance, and then, with loud lamentation for the loss of such undaunted leaders,
they dispersed themselves like a flock which has lost its shepherd.

Years passed away after years, and a century had elapsed ere a noble Swedish rover, bound upon
some high adventure and supported by a gallant band of followers, arrived in the valley which
took its name from the tomb of the brethren-in-arms. The story was told to the strangers, whose
leader determined on opening the sepulchre, partly because, as already hinted, it was reckoned
a heroic action to brave the anger of departed heroes by violating their tombs; partly to attain
the arms and swords of proof with which the deceased had done their great actions. He set his
soldiers to work, and soon removed the earth and stones from one side of the mound, and laid
bare the entrance. But the stoutest of the rovers started back when, instead of the silence
of a tomb, they heard within horrid cries, the clash of swords, the clang of armour, and all
the noise of a mortal combat between two furious champions. A young warrior was let down into
the profound tomb by a cord, which was drawn up shortly after, in hopes of news from beneath.
But when the adventurer descended, some one threw him from the cord, and took his place in
the noose. When the rope was pulled up, the soldiers, instead of their companion, beheld Asmund,
the survivor of the brethren-in-arms. He rushed into the open air, his sword drawn in his hand,
his armour half torn from his body, the left side of his face almost scratched off, as by the
talons of some wild beast. He had no sooner appeared in the light of day, than, with the improvisatory
poetic talent, which these champions often united with heroic strength and bravery, he poured
forth a string of verses containing the history of his hundred years' conflict within the tomb.
It seems that no sooner was the sepulchre closed than the corpse of the slain Assueit arose
from the ground, inspired by some ravenous goule, and having first torn to pieces and devoured
the horses which had been entombed with them, threw himself upon the companion who had just
given him such a sign of devoted friendship, in order to treat him in the same manner. The
hero, no way discountenanced by the horrors of his situation, took to his arms, and defended
himself manfully against Assueit, or rather against the evil demon who tenanted that champion's
body. In this manner the living brother waged a preternatural combat, which had endured during
a whole century, when Asmund, at last obtaining the victory, prostrated his enemy, and by driving,
as he boasted, a stake through his body, had finally reduced him to the state of quiet becoming
a tenant of the tomb. Having chanted the triumphant account of his contest and victory, this
mangled conqueror fell dead before them. The body of Assueit was taken out of the tomb, burnt,
and the ashes dispersed to heaven; whilst that of the victor, now lifeless and without a companion,
was deposited there, so that it was hoped his slumbers might remain undisturbed.[19] The precautions
taken against Assueit's reviving a second time, remind us of those adopted in the Greek islands
and in the Turkish provinces against the vampire. It affords also a derivation of the ancient
English law in case of suicide, when a stake was driven through the body, originally to keep
it secure in the tomb.

[Footnote 19: See Saxo Grammaticus, "Hist. Dan.," lib. v.]

The Northern people also acknowledged a kind of ghosts, who, when they had obtained possession
of a building, or the right of haunting it, did not defend themselves against mortals on the
knightly principle of duel, like Assueit, nor were amenable to the prayers of the priest or
the spells of the sorcerer, but became tractable when properly convened in a legal process.
The Eyrbiggia Saga acquaints us, that the mansion of a respectable landholder in Iceland was,
soon after the settlement of that island, exposed to a persecution of this kind. The molestation
was produced by the concurrence of certain mystical and spectral phenomena, calculated to introduce
such persecution. About the commencement of winter, with that slight exchange of darkness and
twilight which constitutes night and day in these latitudes, a contagious disease arose in
a family of consequence and in the neighbourhood, which, sweeping off several members of the
family at different times, seemed to threaten them all with death. But the death of these persons
was attended with the singular consequence that their spectres were seen to wander in the neighbourhood
of the mansion-house, terrifying, and even assaulting, those of the living family who ventured
abroad. As the number of the dead members of the devoted household seemed to increase in proportion
to that of the survivors, the ghosts took it upon them to enter the house, and produce their
aërial forms and wasted physiognomy, even in the stove where the fire was maintained for the
general use of the inhabitants, and which, in an Iceland winter, is the only comfortable place
of assembling the family. But the remaining inhabitants of the place, terrified by the intrusion
of these spectres, chose rather to withdraw to the other extremity of the house, and abandon
their warm seats, than to endure the neighbourhood of the phantoms. Complaints were at length
made to a pontiff of the god Thor, named Snorro, who exercised considerable influence in the
island. By his counsel, the young proprietor of the haunted mansion assembled a jury, or inquest,
of his neighbours, constituted in the usual judicial form, as if to judge an ordinary civil
matter, and proceeded, in their presence, to cite individually the various phantoms and resemblances
of the deceased members of the family, to show by what warrant they disputed with him and his
servants the quiet possession of his property, and what defence they could plead for thus interfering
with and incommoding the living. The spectres of the dead, by name, and in order as summoned,
appeared on their being called, and muttering some regrets at being obliged to abandon their
dwelling, departed, or vanished, from the astonished inquest. Judgment then went against the
ghosts by default; and the trial by jury, of which we here can trace the origin, obtained a
triumph unknown to any of the great writers who have made it the subject of eulogy.[20]

[Footnote 20: Eyrbiggia Saga. See "Northern Antiquities."]

It was not only with the spirits of the dead that the warlike people of the North made war
without timidity, and successfully entered into suits of ejectment. These daring champions
often braved the indignation even of the superior deities of their mythology, rather than allow
that there existed any being before whom their boldness could quail. Such is the singular story
how a young man of high courage, in crossing a desolate ridge of mountains, met with a huge
waggon, in which the goddess, Freya (i.e., a gigantic idol formed to represent her), together
with her shrine, and the wealthy offerings attached to it, was travelling from one district
of the country to another. The shrine, or sanctuary of the idol, was, like a modern caravan
travelling with a show, screened by boards and curtains from the public gaze, and the equipage
was under the immediate guidance of the priestess of Freya, a young, good-looking, and attractive
woman. The traveller naturally associated himself with the priestess, who, as she walked on
foot, apparently was in no degree displeased with the company of a powerful and handsome young
man, as a guide and companion on the journey. It chanced, however, that the presence of the
champion, and his discourse with the priestess, was less satisfactory to the goddess than to
the parties principally concerned. By a certain signal the divinity summoned the priestess
to the sanctuary, who presently returned, with tears in her eyes and terror in her countenance,
to inform her companion that it was the will of Freya that he should depart, and no longer
travel in their company. "You must have mistaken the meaning of the goddess," said the champion;
"Freya cannot have formed a wish so unreasonable as to desire I should abandon the straight
and good road, which leads me directly on my journey, to choose precipitous paths and by-roads,
where I may break my neck." "Nevertheless," said the priestess, "the goddess will be highly
offended if you disobey her commands, nor can I conceal from you that she may personally assault
you." "It will be at her own peril if she should be so audacious," said the champion, "for
I will try the power of this axe against the strength of beams and boards." The priestess chid
him for his impiety; but being unable to compel him to obey the goddess's mandate, they again
relapsed into familiarity, which advanced to such a point that a clattering noise within the
tabernacle, as of machinery put in motion, intimated to the travellers that Freya, who perhaps
had some qualities in common with the classical Vesta, thought a personal interruption of this
tête-à-tête ought to be deferred no longer. The curtains flew open, and the massive and awkward
idol, who, we may suppose, resembled in form the giant created by Frankenstein, leapt lumbering
from the carriage, and, rushing on the intrusive traveller, dealt him, with its wooden hands
and arms, such tremendous blows, as were equally difficult to parry or to endure. But the champion
was armed with a double-edged Danish axe, with which he bestirred himself with so much strength
and activity, that at length he split the head of the image, and with a severe blow hewed off
its left leg. The image of Freya then fell motionless to the ground, and the demon which had
animated it fled yelling from the battered tenement. The champion was now victor; and, according
to the law of arms, took possession of the female and the baggage. The priestess, the divinity
of whose patroness had been by the event of the combat sorely lessened in her eyes, was now
easily induced to become the associate and concubine of the conqueror. She accompanied him
to the district whither he was travelling, and there displayed the shrine of Freya, taking
care to hide the injuries which the goddess had received in the brawl. The champion came in
for a share of a gainful trade driven by the priestess, besides appropriating to himself most
of the treasures which the sanctuary had formerly contained. Neither does it appear that Freya,
having, perhaps, a sensible recollection of the power of the axe, ever again ventured to appear
in person for the purpose of calling her false stewards to account.

The national estimation of deities, concerning whom such stories could be told and believed,
was, of course, of no deep or respectful character. The Icelanders abandoned Odin, Freya, Thor,
and their whole pagan mythology, in consideration of a single disputation between the heathen
priests and the Christian missionaries. The priests threatened the island with a desolating
eruption of the volcano called Hecla, as the necessary consequence of the vengeance of their
deities. Snorro, the same who advised the inquest against the ghosts, had become a convert
to the Christian religion, and was present on the occasion, and as the conference was held
on the surface of what had been a stream of lava, now covered with vegetable substances, he
answered the priests with much readiness, "To what was the indignation of the gods owing when
the substance on which we stand was fluid and scorching? Believe me, men of Iceland, the eruption
of the volcano depends on natural circumstances now as it did then, and is not the engine of
vengeance intrusted to Thor and Odin." It is evident that men who reasoned with so much accuracy
concerning the imbecility of Odin and Thor were well prepared, on abandoning their worship,
to consider their former deities, of whom they believed so much that was impious, in the light
of evil demons.

But there were some particulars of the Northern creed in which it corresponded so exactly with
that of the classics as leaves room to doubt whether the original Asæ, or Asiatics, the founders
of the Scandinavian system, had, before their migration from Asia, derived them from some common
source with those of the Greeks and Romans; or whether, on the other hand, the same proneness
of the human mind to superstition has caused that similar ideas are adopted in different regions,
as the same plants are found in distant countries without the one, as far as can be discovered,
having obtained the seed from the others.

The classical fiction, for example, of the satyrs and other subordinate deities of wood and
wild, whose power is rather delusive than formidable, and whose supernatural pranks intimate
rather a wish to inflict terror than to do hurt, was received among the Northern people, and
perhaps transferred by them to the Celtic tribes. It is an idea which seems common to many
nations. The existence of a satyr, in the silvan form, is even pretended to be proved by the
evidence of Saint Anthony, to whom one is said to have appeared in the desert. The Scottish
Gael have an idea of the same kind, respecting a goblin called Ourisk, whose form is like that
of Pan, and his attendants something between a man and a goat, the nether extremities being
in the latter form. A species of cavern, or rather hole, in the rock, affords to the wildest
retreat in the romantic neighbourhood of Loch Katrine a name taken from classical superstition.
It is not the least curious circumstance that from this silvan deity the modern nations of
Europe have borrowed the degrading and unsuitable emblems of the goat's visage and form, the
horns, hoofs, and tail, with which they have depicted the author of evil when it pleased him
to show himself on earth. So that the alteration of a single word would render Pope's well-known
line more truly adapted to the fact, should we venture to read--

"And Pan to Satan lends his heathen horn."

We cannot attribute the transferrence of the attributes of the Northern satyr, or Celtic ourisk,
to the arch-fiend, to any particular resemblance between the character of these deities and
that of Satan. On the contrary, the ourisk of the Celts was a creature by no means peculiarly
malevolent or formidably powerful, but rather a melancholy spirit, which dwelt in wildernesses
far removed from men. If we are to identify him with the Brown Dwarf of the Border moors, the
ourisk has a mortal term of life and a hope of salvation, as indeed the same high claim was
made by the satyr who appeared to St. Anthony. Moreover, the Highland ourisk was a species
of lubber fiend, and capable of being over-reached by those who understood philology. It is
related of one of these goblins which frequented a mill near the foot of Loch Lomond, that
the miller, desiring to get rid of this meddling spirit, who injured the machinery by setting
the water on the wheel when there was no grain to be grinded, contrived to have a meeting with
the goblin by watching in his mill till night. The ourisk then entered, and demanded the miller's
name, and was informed that he was called Myself; on which is founded a story almost exactly
like that of OUTIS in the "Odyssey," a tale which, though classic, is by no means an elegant
or ingenious fiction, but which we are astonished to find in an obscure district, and in the
Celtic tongue, seeming to argue some connexion or communication between these remote Highlands
of Scotland and the readers of Homer in former days, which we cannot account for. After all,
perhaps, some Churchman more learned than his brethren may have transferred the legend from
Sicily to Duncrune, from the shores of the Mediterranean to those of Loch Lomond. I have heard
it also told that the celebrated freebooter, Rob Roy, once gained a victory by disguising a
part of his men with goat-skins, so as to resemble the ourisk or Highland satyr.

There was an individual satyr called, I think, Meming, belonging to the Scandinavian mythology,
of a character different from the ourisk, though similar in shape, whom it was the boast of
the highest champions to seek out in the solitudes which he inhabited. He was an armourer of
extreme dexterity, and the weapons which he forged were of the highest value. But as club-law
pervaded the ancient system of Scandinavia, Meming had the humour of refusing to work for any
customer save such as compelled him to it with force of arms. He may be, perhaps, identified
with the recusant smith who fled before Fingal from Ireland to the Orkneys, and being there
overtaken, was compelled to forge the sword which Fingal afterwards wore in all his battles,
and which was called the Son of the dark brown Luno, from the name of the armourer who forged
it.[21]

[Footnote 21: The weapon is often mentioned in Mr. MacPherson's paraphrases; but the Irish
ballad, which gives a spirited account of the debate between the champion and the armourer,
is nowhere introduced.]

From this it will appear that there were originals enough in the mythology of the Goths, as
well as Celts, to furnish the modern attributes ascribed to Satan in later times, when the
object of painter or poet was to display him in his true form and with all his terrors. Even
the genius of Guido and of Tasso have been unable to surmount this prejudice, the more rooted,
perhaps, that the wicked are described as goats in Scripture, and that the devil is called
the old dragon. In Raffael's famous painting of the archangel Michael binding Satan, the dignity,
power, and angelic character expressed by the seraph form an extraordinary contrast to the
poor conception of a being who ought not, even in that lowest degradation, to have seemed so
unworthy an antagonist. Neither has Tasso been more happy, where he represents the divan of
darkness in the enchanted forest as presided over by a monarch having a huge tail, hoofs, and
all the usual accompaniments of popular diablerie. The genius of Milton alone could discard
all these vulgar puerilities, and assign to the author of evil the terrible dignity of one
who should seem not "less than archangel ruined." This species of degradation is yet grosser
when we take into consideration the changes which popular opinions have wrought respecting
the taste, habits, powers, modes of tempting, and habits of tormenting, which are such as might
rather be ascribed to some stupid superannuated and doting ogre of a fairy tale, than to the
powerful-minded demon who fell through pride and rebellion, not through folly or incapacity.

Having, however, adopted our present ideas of the devil as they are expressed by his nearest
acquaintances, the witches, from the accounts of satyrs, which seem to have been articles of
faith both among the Celtic and Gothic tribes, we must next notice another fruitful fountain
of demonological fancies. But as this source of the mythology of the Middle Ages must necessarily
comprehend some account of the fairy folk, to whom much of it must be referred, it is necessary
to make a pause before we enter upon the mystic and marvellous connexion supposed to exist
between the impenitent kingdom of Satan and those merry dancers by moonlight.

LETTER IV.

    The Fairy Superstition is derived from different sources--The
    Classical Worship of the Silvans, or Rural Deities, proved by Roman
    Altars discovered--The Gothic Duergar, or Dwarfs--Supposed to be
    derived from the Northern Laps, or Fins--"The
    Niebelungen-Lied"--King Laurin's Adventure--Celtic Fairies of a
    gayer character, yet their pleasures empty and illusory--Addicted to
    carry off Human Beings, both Infants and Adults--Adventures of a
    Butler in Ireland--The Elves supposed to pay a Tax to Hell--The
    Irish, Welsh, Highlanders, and Manxmen held the same belief--It was
    rather rendered more gloomy by the Northern Traditions--Merlin and
    Arthur carried off by the Fairies--Also Thomas of Erceldoune--His
    Amour with the Queen of Elfland--His re-appearance in latter
    times--Another account from Reginald Scot--Conjectures on the
    derivation of the word Fairy.

We may premise by observing, that the classics had not forgotten to enrol in their mythology
a certain species of subordinate deities, resembling the modern elves in their habits. Good
old Mr. Gibb, of the Advocates' Library (whom all lawyers whose youth he assisted in their
studies, by his knowledge of that noble collection, are bound to name with gratitude), used
to point out, amongst the ancient altars under his charge, one which is consecrated, Diis campestribus,
and usually added, with a wink, "The fairies, ye ken."[22] This relic of antiquity was discovered
near Roxburgh Castle, and a vicinity more delightfully appropriate to the abode of the silvan
deities can hardly be found.

[Footnote 22: Another altar of elegant form and perfectly preserved, was, within these few
weeks, dug up near the junction of the Leader and the Tweed, in the neighbourhood of the village
of Newstead, to the east of Melrose. It was inscribed by Carrius Domitianus, the prefect of
the twentieth legion, to the god Sylvanus, forming another instance how much the wild and silvan
character of the country disposed the feelings of the Romans to acknowledge the presence of
the rural deities. The altar is preserved at Drygrange, the seat of Mr. Tod.]

Two rivers of considerable size, made yet more remarkable by the fame which has rendered them
in some sort classical, unite their streams beneath the vestiges of an extensive castle, renowned
in the wars with England, and for the valiant, noble, and even royal blood, which has been
shed around and before it--a landscape ornamented with the distant village and huge abbey tower
of Kelso, arising out of groves of aged trees--the modern mansion of Fleurs, with its terrace,
its woods, and its extensive lawn--form altogether a kingdom for Oberon and Titania to reign
in, or any spirit who, before their time, might love scenery, of which the majesty, and even
the beauty, impress the mind with a sense of awe mingled with pleasure. These silvans, satyrs,
and fauns with whom superstition peopled the lofty banks and tangled copses of this romantic
country, were obliged to give place to deities very nearly resembling themselves in character,
who probably derive some of their attributes from their classic predecessors, although more
immediately allied to the barbarian conquerors. We allude to the fairies, which, as received
into the popular creed, and as described by the poets who have made use of them as machinery,
are certainly among the most pleasing legacies of fancy.

Dr. Leyden, who exhausted on this subject, as upon most others, a profusion of learning, found
the first idea of the elfin people in the Northern opinions concerning the duergar, or dwarfs.[23]
These were, however, it must be owned, spirits of a coarser sort, more laborious vocation,
and more malignant temper, and in all respects less propitious to humanity, than the fairies
(properly so called), which were the invention of the Celtic people, and displayed that superiority
of taste and fancy which, with the love of music and poetry, has been generally ascribed to
their race, through its various classes and modifications.

[Footnote 23: See the essay on the Fairy Superstition, in the "Minstrelsy of the Scottish Border,"
of which many of the materials were contributed by Dr. Leyden, and the whole brought into its
present form by the author.]

In fact, there seems reason to conclude that these duergar were originally nothing else than
the diminutive natives of the Lappish, Lettish, and Finnish nations, who, flying before the
conquering weapons of the Asæ, sought the most retired regions of the North, and there endeavoured
to hide themselves from their Eastern invaders. They were a little, diminutive race, but possessed
of some skill probably in mining or smelting minerals, with which the country abounds. Perhaps
also they might, from their acquaintance with the changes of the clouds, or meteorological
phenomena, be judges of weather, and so enjoy another title to supernatural skill. At any rate,
it has been plausibly supposed that these poor people, who sought caverns and hiding-places
from the persecution of the Asæ, were in some respects compensated for inferiority in strength
and stature by the art and power with which the superstition of the enemy invested them. These
oppressed yet dreaded fugitives obtained, naturally enough, the character of the German spirits
called Kobold, from which the English goblin and the Scottish bogle, by some inversion and
alteration of pronunciation, are evidently derived.

The Kobolds were a species of gnomes, who haunted the dark and solitary places, and were often
seen in the mines, where they seemed to imitate the labours of the miners, and sometimes took
pleasure in frustrating their objects and rendering their toil unfruitful. Sometimes they were
malignant, especially if neglected or insulted; but sometimes also they were indulgent to individuals
whom they took under their protection. When a miner, therefore, hit upon a rich vein of ore,
the inference commonly was, not that he possessed more skill, industry, or even luck, than
his fellow-workmen, but that the spirits of the mine had directed him to the treasure. The
employment and apparent occupation of these subterranean gnomes or fiends, led very naturally
to identify the Fin, or Laplander, with the Kobold; but it was a bolder stretch of the imagination
which confounded this reserved and sullen race with the livelier and gayer spirit which bears
correspondence with the British fairy. Neither can we be surprised that the duergar, ascribed
by many persons to this source, should exhibit a darker and more malignant character than the
elves that revel by moonlight in more southern climates.

According to the old Norse belief, these dwarfs form the current machinery of the Northern
Sagas, and their inferiority in size is represented as compensated by skill and wisdom superior
to those of ordinary mortals. In the "Niebelungen-Lied," one of the oldest romances of Germany,
and compiled, it would seem, not long after the time of Attila, Theodorick of Bern, or of Verona,
figures among a cycle of champions over whom he presides, like the Charlemagne of France or
Arthur of England. Among others vanquished by him is the Elf King, or Dwarf Laurin, whose dwelling
was in an enchanted garden of roses, and who had a body-guard of giants, a sort of persons
seldom supposed to be themselves conjurers. He becomes a formidable opponent to Theodorick
and his chivalry; but as he attempted by treachery to attain the victory, he is, when overcome,
condemned to fill the dishonourable yet appropriate office of buffoon and juggler at the Court
of Verona.[24]

[Footnote 24: See an abstract, by the late learned Henry Weber, of "A Lay on this subject of
King Laurin," complied by Henry of Osterdingen. "Northern Antiquities," Edinburgh, 1814.]

Such possession of supernatural wisdom is still imputed by the natives of the Orkney and Zetland
Islands to the people called Drows, being a corruption of duergar or dwarfs, and who may, in
most other respects, be identified with the Caledonian fairies. Lucas Jacobson Debes, who dates
his description of Feroe from his Pathmos, in Thorshaven, March 12, 1670, dedicates a long
chapter to the spectres who disturbed his congregation, and sometimes carried off his hearers.
The actors in these disturbances he states to be the Skow, or Biergen-Trold--i.e., the spirits
of the woods and mountains, sometimes called subterranean people, and adds, they appeared in
deep caverns and among horrid rocks; as also, that they haunted the places where murders or
other deeds of mortal sin had been acted. They appear to have been the genuine northern dwarfs,
or Trows, another pronunciation of Trollds, and are considered by the reverend author as something
very little better than actual fiends.

But it is not only, or even chiefly, to the Gothic race that we must trace the opinions concerning
the elves of the middle ages; these, as already hinted, were deeply blended with the attributes
which the Celtic tribes had, from the remotest ages, ascribed to their deities of rocks, valleys,
and forests. We have already observed, what indeed makes a great feature of their national
character, that the power of the imagination is peculiarly active among the Celts, and leads
to an enthusiasm concerning national music and dancing, national poetry and song, the departments
in which fancy most readily indulges herself. The Irish, the Welsh, the Gael, or Scottish Highlander,
all tribes of Celtic descent, assigned to the Men of Peace, Good Neighbours, or by whatever
other names they called these sylvan pigmies, more social habits, and a course of existence
far more gay, than the sullen and heavy toils of the more saturnine Duergar. Their elves did
not avoid the society of men, though they behaved to those who associated with them with caprice,
which rendered it dangerous to displease them; and although their gifts were sometimes valuable,
they were usually wantonly given and unexpectedly resumed.

The employment, the benefits, the amusements of the Fairy court, resembled the aerial people
themselves. Their government was always represented as monarchical. A King, more frequently
a Queen of Fairies, was acknowledged; and sometimes both held their court together. Their pageants
and court entertainments comprehended all that the imagination could conceive of what was,
by that age, accounted gallant and splendid. At their processions they paraded more beautiful
steeds than those of mere earthly parentage--the hawks and hounds which they employed in their
chase were of the first race. At their daily banquets, the board was set forth with a splendour
which the proudest kings of the earth dared not aspire to; and the hall of their dancers echoed
to the most exquisite music. But when viewed by the eye of a seer the illusion vanished. The
young knights and beautiful ladies showed themselves as wrinkled carles and odious hags--their
wealth turned into slate-stones--their splendid plate into pieces of clay fantastically twisted--and
their victuals, unsavoured by salt (prohibited to them, we are told, because an emblem of eternity),
became tasteless and insipid--the stately halls were turned into miserable damp caverns--all
the delights of the Elfin Elysium vanished at once. In a word, their pleasures were showy,
but totally unsubstantial--their activity unceasing, but fruitless and unavailing--and their
condemnation appears to have consisted in the necessity of maintaining the appearance of constant
industry or enjoyment, though their toil was fruitless and their pleasures shadowy and unsubstantial.
Hence poets have designed them as "the crew that never rest." Besides the unceasing and useless
bustle in which these spirits seemed to live, they had propensities unfavourable and distressing
to mortals.

One injury of a very serious nature was supposed to be constantly practised by the fairies
against "the human mortals," that of carrying off their children, and breeding them as beings
of their race. Unchristened infants were chiefly exposed to this calamity; but adults were
also liable to be abstracted from earthly commerce, notwithstanding it was their natural sphere.
With respect to the first, it may be easily conceived that the want of the sacred ceremony
of introduction into the Christian church rendered them the more obnoxious to the power of
those creatures, who, if not to be in all respects considered as fiends, had nevertheless,
considering their constant round of idle occupation, little right to rank themselves among
good spirits, and were accounted by most divines as belonging to a very different class. An
adult, on the other hand, must have been engaged in some action which exposed him to the power
of the spirits, and so, as the legal phrase went, "taken in the manner." Sleeping on a fairy
mount, within which the Fairy court happened to be held for the time, was a very ready mode
of obtaining a pass for Elfland. It was well for the individual if the irate elves were contented,
on such occasions, with transporting him through the air to a city at some forty miles' distance,
and leaving, perhaps, his hat or bonnet on some steeple between, to mark the direct line of
his course. Others, when engaged in some unlawful action, or in the act of giving way to some
headlong and sinful passion, exposed themselves also to become inmates of Fairyland.

The same belief on these points obtained in Ireland. Glanville, in his "Eighteenth Relation,"
tells us of the butler of a gentleman, a neighbour of the Earl of Orrery, who was sent to purchase
cards. In crossing the fields, he saw a table surrounded by people apparently feasting and
making merry. They rose to salute him, and invited him to join in their revel; but a friendly
voice from the party whispered in his ear, "Do nothing which this company invite you to." Accordingly,
when he refused to join in feasting, the table vanished, and the company began to dance and
play on musical instruments; but the butler would not take part in these recreations. They
then left off dancing, and betook themselves to work; but neither in this would the mortal
join them. He was then left alone for the present; but in spite of the exertions of my Lord
Orrery, in spite of two bishops who were his guests at the time, in spite of the celebrated
Mr. Greatrix, it was all they could do to prevent the butler from being carried off bodily
from amongst them by the fairies, who considered him as their lawful prey. They raised him
in the air above the heads of the mortals, who could only run beneath, to break his fall when
they pleased to let him go. The spectre which formerly advised the poor man continued to haunt
him, and at length discovered himself to be the ghost of an acquaintance who had been dead
for seven years. "You know," added he, "I lived a loose life, and ever since have I been hurried
up and down in a restless condition, with the company you saw, and shall be till the day of
judgment." He added, "that if the butler had acknowledged God in all his ways, he had not suffered
so much by their means; he reminded him that he had not prayed to God in the morning before
he met with this company in the field, and, moreover, that he was then going on an unlawful
business."

It is pretended that Lord Orrery confirmed the whole of this story, even to having seen the
butler raised into the air by the invisible beings who strove to carry him off. Only he did
not bear witness to the passage which seems to call the purchase of cards an unlawful errand.[25]

[Footnote 25: "Sadducismus Triumphatus," by Joseph Glanville, p. 131. Edinburgh, 1790.]

Individuals, whose lives had been engaged in intrigues of politics or stratagems of war, were
sometimes surreptitiously carried off to Fairyland; as Alison Pearson, the sorceress who cured
Archbishop Adamson, averred that she had recognised in the Fairy court the celebrated Secretary
Lethington and the old Knight of Buccleuch, the one of whom had been the most busy politician,
the other one of the most unwearied partisans of Queen Mary, during the reign of that unfortunate
queen. Upon the whole, persons carried off by sudden death were usually suspected of having
fallen into the hands of the fairies, and unless redeemed from their power, which it was not
always safe to attempt, were doomed to conclude their lives with them. We must not omit to
state that those who had an intimate communication with these spirits, while they were yet
inhabitants of middle earth, were most apt to be seized upon and carried off to Elfland before
their death.

The reason assigned for this kidnapping of the human race, so peculiar to the elfin people,
is said to be that they were under a necessity of paying to the infernal regions a yearly tribute
out of their population, which they were willing to defray by delivering up to the prince of
these regions the children of the human race, rather than their own. From this it must be inferred,
that they have offspring among themselves, as it is said by some authorities, and particularly
by Mr. Kirke, the minister of Aberfoyle. He indeed adds that, after a certain length of life,
these spirits are subject to the universal lot of mortality--a position, however, which has
been controverted, and is scarcely reconcilable to that which holds them amenable to pay a
tax to hell, which infers existence as eternal as the fire which is not quenched. The opinions
on the subject of the fairy people here expressed, are such as are entertained in the Highlands
and some remote quarters of the Lowlands of Scotland. We know, from the lively and entertaining
legends published by Mr. Crofton Croker--which, though in most cases told with the wit of the
editor and the humour of his country, contain points of curious antiquarian information--that
the opinions of the Irish are conformable to the account we have given of the general creed
of the Celtic nations respecting elves. If the Irish elves are anywise distinguished from those
of Britain, it seems to be by their disposition to divide into factions and fight among themselves--a
pugnacity characteristic of the Green Isle. The Welsh fairies, according to John Lewis, barrister-at-law,
agree in the same general attributes with those of Ireland and Britain. We must not omit the
creed of the Manxmen, since we find, from the ingenious researches of Mr. Waldron, that the
Isle of Man, beyond other places in Britain, was a peculiar depository of the fairy traditions,
which, on the island being conquered by the Norse, became, in all probability, chequered with
those of Scandinavia from a source peculiar and more direct than that by which they reached
Scotland or Ireland.

Such as it was, the popular system of the Celts easily received the northern admixture of Drows
and Duergar, which gave the belief, perhaps, a darker colouring than originally belonged to
the British fairyland. It was from the same source also, in all probability, that additional
legends were obtained of a gigantic and malignant female, the Hecate of this mythology, who
rode on the storm and marshalled the rambling host of wanderers under her grim banner. This
hag (in all respects the reverse of the Mab or Titania of the Celtic creed) was called Nicneven
in that later system which blended the faith of the Celts and of the Goths on this subject.
The great Scottish poet Dunbar has made a spirited description of this Hecate riding at the
head of witches and good neighbours (fairies, namely), sorceresses and elves, indifferently,
upon the ghostly eve of All-Hallow Mass.[26] In Italy we hear of the hags arraying themselves
under the orders of Diana (in her triple character of Hecate, doubtless) and Herodias, who
were the joint leaders of their choir. But we return to the more simple fairy belief, as entertained
by the Celts before they were conquered by the Saxons.

[Footnote 26: See "Flyting of Dunbar and Kennedy."]

Of these early times we can know little; but it is singular to remark what light the traditions
of Scotland throw upon the poetry of the Britons of Cumberland, then called Reged. Merlin Wyllt,
or the wild, is mentioned by both; and that renowned wizard, the son of an elf or fairy, with
King Arthur, the dubious champion of Britain at that early period, were both said by tradition
to have been abstracted by the fairies, and to have vanished without having suffered death,
just at the time when it was supposed that the magic of the wizard and the celebrated sword
of the monarch, which had done so much to preserve British independence, could no longer avert
the impending ruin. It may be conjectured that there was a desire on the part of Arthur or
his surviving champions to conceal his having received a mortal wound in the fatal battle of
Camlan; and to that we owe the wild and beautiful incident so finely versified by Bishop Percy,
in which, in token of his renouncing in future the use of arms, the monarch sends his attendant,
sole survivor of the field, to throw his sword Excalibar into the lake hard by. Twice eluding
the request, the esquire at last complied, and threw the far-famed weapon into the lonely mere.
A hand and arm arose from the water and caught Excalibar by the hilt, flourished it thrice,
and then sank into the lake.[27] The astonished messenger returned to his master to tell him
the marvels he had seen, but he only saw a boat at a distance push from the land, and heard
shrieks of females in agony:--

"And whether the king was there or not
  He never knew, he never colde
 For never since that doleful day
  Was British Arthur seen on molde."

[Footnote 27: See "Percy's Reliques of Ancient English Poetry."]

The circumstances attending the disappearance of Merlin would probably be found as imaginative
as those of Arthur's removal, but they cannot be recovered; and what is singular enough, circumstances
which originally belonged to the history of this famous bard, said to be the son of the Demon
himself, have been transferred to a later poet, and surely one of scarce inferior name, Thomas
of Erceldoune. The legend was supposed to be only preserved among the inhabitants of his native
valleys, but a copy as old as the reign of Henry VII. has been recovered. The story is interesting
and beautifully told, and, as one of the oldest fairy legends, may well be quoted in this place.

Thomas of Erceldoune, in Lauderdale, called the Rhymer, on account of his producing a poetical
romance on the subject of Tristrem and Yseult, which is curious as the earliest specimen of
English verse known to exist, flourished in the reign of Alexander III. of Scotland. Like other
men of talent of the period, Thomas was suspected of magic. He was said also to have the gift
of prophecy, which was accounted for in the following peculiar manner, referring entirely to
the elfin superstition:--As True Thomas (we give him the epithet by anticipation) lay on Huntly
Bank, a place on the descent of the Eildon Hills, which raise their triple crest above the
celebrated Monastery of Melrose, he saw a lady so extremely beautiful that he imagined it must
be the Virgin Mary herself. Her appointments, however, were rather those of an Amazon or goddess
of the woods. Her steed was of the highest beauty and spirit, and at his mane hung thirty silver
bells and nine, which made music to the wind as she paced along. Her saddle was of royal bone
(ivory), laid over with orfeverie--i.e., goldsmith's work. Her stirrups, her dress, all corresponded
with her extreme beauty and the magnificence of her array. The fair huntress had her bow in
her hand, and her arrows at her belt. She led three greyhounds in a leash, and three raches,
or hounds of scent, followed her closely. She rejected and disclaimed the homage which Thomas
desired to pay to her; so that, passing from one extremity to the other, Thomas became as bold
as he had at first been humble. The lady warns him that he must become her slave if he should
prosecute his suit towards her in the manner he proposes. Before their interview terminates,
the appearance of the beautiful lady is changed into that of the most hideous hag in existence.
One side is blighted and wasted, as if by palsy; one eye drops from her head; her colour, as
clear as the virgin silver, is now of a dun leaden hue. A witch from the spital or almshouse
would have been a goddess in comparison to the late beautiful huntress. Hideous as she was,
Thomas's irregular desires had placed him under the control of this hag, and when she bade
him take leave of sun, and of the leaf that grew on tree, he felt himself under the necessity
of obeying her. A cavern received them, in which, following his frightful guide, he for three
days travelled in darkness, sometimes hearing the booming of a distant ocean, sometimes walking
through rivers of blood, which crossed their subterranean path. At length they emerged into
daylight, in a most beautiful orchard. Thomas, almost fainting for want of food, stretches
out his hand towards the goodly fruit which hangs around him, but is forbidden by his conductress,
who informs him these are the fatal apples which were the cause of the fall of man. He perceives
also that his guide had no sooner entered this mysterious ground, and breathed its magic air,
than she was revived in beauty, equipage, and splendour, as fair, or fairer, than he had first
seen her on the mountain. She then commands him to lay his head upon her knee, and proceeds
to explain to him the character of the country. "Yonder right-hand path," she says, "conveys
the spirits of the blessed to Paradise; yon downward and well-worn way leads sinful souls to
the place of everlasting punishment; the third road, by yonder dark brake, conducts to the
milder place of pain from which prayer and mass may release offenders. But see you yet a fourth
road, sweeping along the plain to yonder splendid castle? Yonder is the road to Elfland, to
which we are now bound. The lord of the castle is king of the country, and I am his queen.
But, Thomas, I would rather be drawn with wild horses, than he should know what hath passed
between you and me. Therefore, when we enter yonder castle, observe strict silence, and answer
no question that is asked at you, and I will account for your silence by saying I took your
speech when I brought you from middle earth."

Having thus instructed her lover, they journeyed on to the castle, and entering by the kitchen,
found themselves in the midst of such a festive scene as might become the mansion of a great
feudal lord or prince. Thirty carcases of deer were lying on the massive kitchen board, under
the hands of numerous cooks, who toiled to cut them up and dress them, while the gigantic greyhounds
which had taken the spoil lay lapping the blood, and enjoying the sight of the slain game.
They came next to the royal hall, where the king received his loving consort without censure
or suspicion. Knights and ladies, dancing by threes (reels perhaps), occupied the floor of
the hall, and Thomas, the fatigues of his journey from the Eildon hills forgotten, went forward
and joined in the revelry. After a period, however, which seemed to him a very short one, the
queen spoke with him apart, and bade him prepare to return to his own country. "Now," said
the queen, "how long think you that you have been here?" "Certes, fair lady," answered Thomas,
"not above these seven days." "You are deceived," answered the queen, "you have been seven
years in this castle; and it is full time you were gone. Know, Thomas, that the fiend of hell
will come to this castle to-morrow to demand his tribute, and so handsome a man as you will
attract his eye. For all the world would I not suffer you to be betrayed to such a fate; therefore
up, and let us be going." These terrible news reconciled Thomas to his departure from Elfin
land, and the queen was not long in placing him upon Huntly bank, where the birds were singing.
She took a tender leave of him, and to ensure his reputation, bestowed on him the tongue which
could not lie. Thomas in vain objected to this inconvenient and involuntary adhesion to veracity,
which would make him, as he thought, unfit for church or for market, for king's court or for
lady's bower. But all his remonstrances were disregarded by the lady, and Thomas the Rhymer,
whenever the discourse turned on the future, gained the credit of a prophet whether he would
or not; for he could say nothing but what was sure to come to pass. It is plain that had Thomas
been a legislator instead of a poet, we have here the story of Numa and Egeria. Thomas remained
several years in his own tower near Erceldoune, and enjoyed the fame of his predictions, several
of which are current among the country people to this day. At length, as the prophet was entertaining
the Earl of March in his dwelling, a cry of astonishment arose in the village, on the appearance
of a hart and hind,[28] which left the forest and, contrary to their shy nature, came quietly
onward, traversing the village towards the dwelling of Thomas. The prophet instantly rose from
the board; and, acknowledging the prodigy as the summons of his fate, he accompanied the hart
and hind into the forest, and though occasionally seen by individuals to whom he has chosen
to show himself, has never again mixed familiarly with mankind.

[Footnote 28: This last circumstance seems imitated from a passage in the "Life of Merlin,"
by Jeffrey of Monmouth. See Ellis's "Ancient Romances," vol. i. p. 73.]

Thomas of Erceldoune, during his retirement, has been supposed, from time to time, to be levying
forces to take the field in some crisis of his country's fate. The story has often been told
of a daring horse-jockey having sold a black horse to a man of venerable and antique appearance,
who appointed the remarkable hillock upon Eildon hills, called the Lucken-hare, as the place
where, at twelve o'clock at night, he should receive the price. He came, his money was paid
in ancient coin, and he was invited by his customer to view his residence. The trader in horses
followed his guide in the deepest astonishment through several long ranges of stalls, in each
of which a horse stood motionless, while an armed warrior lay equally still at the charger's
feet. "All these men," said the wizard in a whisper, "will awaken at the battle of Sheriffmoor."
At the extremity of this extraordinary depot hung a sword and a horn, which the prophet pointed
out to the horse-dealer as containing the means of dissolving the spell. The man in confusion
took the horn, and attempted to wind it. The horses instantly started in their stalls, stamped,
and shook their bridles, the men arose and clashed their armour, and the mortal, terrified
at the tumult he had excited, dropped the horn from his hand.

A whirlwind expelled the horse-dealer from the cavern, the entrance to which he could never
again find. A moral might be perhaps extracted from the legend--namely, that it is best to
be armed against danger before bidding it defiance. But it is a circumstance worth notice,
that although this edition of the tale is limited to the year 1715, by the very mention of
the Sheriffmoor, yet a similar story appears to have been current during the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, which is given by Reginald Scot. The narrative is edifying as peculiarly illustrative
of the mode of marring a curious tale in telling it, which was one of the virtues professed
by Caius when he hired himself to King Lear. Reginald Scot, incredulous on the subject of witchcraft,
seems to have given some weight to the belief of those who thought that the spirits of famous
men do, after death, take up some particular habitations near cities, towns, and countries,
and act as tutelary and guardian spirits to the places which they loved while in the flesh.

"But more particularly to illustrate this conjecture," says he, "I could name a person who
hath lately appeared thrice since his decease, at least some ghostly being or other that calls
itself by the name of such a person who was dead above a hundred years ago, and was in his
lifetime accounted as a prophet or predicter by the assistance of sublunary spirits; and now,
at his appearance, did also give strange predictions respecting famine and plenty, war and
bloodshed, and the end of the world. By the information of the person that had communication
with him, the last of his appearances was in the following manner:--"I had been," said he,
"to sell a horse at the next market town, but not attaining my price, as I returned home by
the way I met this man, who began to be familiar with me, asking what news, and how affairs
moved through the country. I answered as I thought fit; withal, I told him of my horse, whom
he began to cheapen, and proceeded with me so far that the price was agreed upon. So he turned
back with me, and told me that if I would go along with him I should receive my money. On our
way we went, I upon my horse, and he on another milk-white beast After much travel I asked
him where he dwelt and what his name was. He told me that his dwelling was a mile off, at a
place called Farran, of which place I had never heard, though I knew all the country round
about.[29] He also told me that he himself was that person of the family of Learmonths[30]
so much spoken of as a prophet. At which I began to be somewhat fearful, perceiving we were
on a road which I never had been on before, which increased my fear and amazement more. Well,
on we went till he brought me under ground, I knew not how, into the presence of a beautiful
woman, who paid the money without a word speaking. He conducted me out again through a large
and long entry, where I saw above six hundred men in armour laid prostrate on the ground as
if asleep. At last I found myself in the open field by the help of the moonlight, in the very
place where I first met him, and made a shift to get home by three in the morning. But the
money I had received was just double of what I esteemed it when the woman paid me, of which
at this instant I have several pieces to show, consisting of ninepennies, thirteen pence-halfpennies,"
&c.[31]

[Footnote 29: In this the author is in the same ignorance as his namesake Reginald, though
having at least as many opportunities of information.]

[Footnote 30: In popular tradition, the name of Thomas the Rhymer was always averred to be
Learmonth. though he neither uses it himself, nor is described by his son other than Le Rymour.
The Learmonths of Dairsie, in Fife, claimed descent from the prophet.]

[Footnote 31: "Discourse of Devils and Spirits appended to the Discovery of Witchcraft," by
Reginald Scot, Esq., book ii. chap. 3, sec. 10.]

It is a great pity that this horse-dealer, having specimens of the fairy coin, of a quality
more permanent than usual, had not favoured us with an account of an impress so valuable to
medalists. It is not the less edifying, as we are deprived of the more picturesque parts of
the story, to learn that Thomas's payment was as faithful as his prophecies. The beautiful
lady who bore the purse must have been undoubtedly the Fairy Queen, whose affection, though,
like that of his own heroine Yseult, we cannot term it altogether laudable, seems yet to have
borne a faithful and firm character.

I have dwelt at some length on the story of Thomas the Rhymer, as the oldest tradition of the
kind which has reached us in detail, and as pretending to show the fate of the first Scottish
poet, whose existence, and its date, are established both by history and records; and who,
if we consider him as writing in the Anglo-Norman language, was certainly one among the earliest
of its versifiers. But the legend is still more curious, from its being the first and most
distinguished instance of a man alleged to have obtained supernatural knowledge by means of
the fairies.

Whence or how this singular community derived their more common popular name, we may say has
not as yet been very clearly established. It is the opinion of the learned that the Persian
word Peri, expressing an unearthly being, of a species very similar, will afford the best derivation,
if we suppose it to have reached Europe through the medium of the Arabians, in whose alphabet
the letter P does not exist, so that they pronounce the word Feri instead of Peri. Still there
is something uncertain in this etymology. We hesitate to ascribe either to the Persians or
the Arabians the distinguishing name of an ideal commonwealth, the notion of which they certainly
did not contribute to us. Some are, therefore, tempted to suppose that the elves may have obtained
their most frequent name from their being par excellence a fair or comely people, a quality
which they affected on all occasions; while the superstition of the Scottish was likely enough
to give them a name which might propitiate the vanity for which they deemed the race remarkable;
just as, in other instances, they called the fays "men of peace," "good neighbours," and by
other titles of the like import. It must be owned, at the same time, that the words fay and
fairy may have been mere adoptions of the French fee and feerie, though these terms, on the
other side of the Channel, have reference to a class of spirits corresponding, not to our fairies,
but with the far different Fata of the Italians. But this is a question which we willingly
leave for the decision of better etymologists than ourselves.

LETTER V.

    Those who dealt in fortune-telling, mystical cures by charms, and
    the like, often claimed an intercourse with Fairyland--Hudhart or
    Hudikin--Pitcairn's "Scottish Criminal Trials"--Story of Bessie
    Dunlop and her Adviser--Her Practice of Medicine--And of Discovery
    of Theft--Account of her Familiar, Thome Reid--Trial of Alison
    Pearson--Account of her Familiar, William Sympson--Trial of the Lady
    Fowlis, and of Hector Munro, her Stepson--Extraordinary species of
    Charm used by the latter--Confession of John Stewart, a Juggler, of
    his Intercourse with the Fairies--Trial and Confession of Isobel
    Gowdie--Use of Elf-arrow Heads--Parish of Aberfoyle--Mr. Kirke, the
    Minister of Aberfoyle's Work on Fairy Superstitions--He is himself
    taken to Fairyland--Dr. Grahame's interesting Work, and his
    Information on Fairy Superstitions--Story of a Female in East
    Lothian carried off by the Fairies--Another instance from Pennant.

To return to Thomas the Rhymer, with an account of whose legend I concluded last letter, it
would seem that the example which it afforded of obtaining the gift of prescience, and other
supernatural powers, by means of the fairy people, became the common apology of those who attempted
to cure diseases, to tell fortunes, to revenge injuries, or to engage in traffic with the invisible
world, for the purpose of satisfying their own wishes, curiosity, or revenge, or those of others.
Those who practised the petty arts of deception in such mystic cases, being naturally desirous
to screen their own impostures, were willing to be supposed to derive from the fairies, or
from mortals transported to fairyland the power necessary to effect the displays of art which
they pretended to exhibit. A confession of direct communication and league with Satan, though
the accused were too frequently compelled by torture to admit and avow such horrors, might,
the poor wretches hoped, be avoided by the avowal of a less disgusting intercourse with sublunary
spirits, a race which might be described by negatives, being neither angels, devils, nor the
souls of deceased men; nor would it, they might flatter themselves, be considered as any criminal
alliance, that they held communion with a race not properly hostile to man, and willing, on
certain conditions, to be useful and friendly to him. Such an intercourse was certainly far
short of the witch's renouncing her salvation, delivering herself personally to the devil,
and at once ensuring condemnation in this world, together with the like doom in the next.

Accordingly, the credulous, who, in search of health, knowledge, greatness, or moved by any
of the numberless causes for which men seek to look into futurity, were anxious to obtain superhuman
assistance, as well as the numbers who had it in view to dupe such willing clients, became
both cheated and cheaters, alike anxious to establish the possibility of a harmless process
of research into futurity, for laudable, or at least innocent objects, as healing diseases
and the like; in short, of the existence of white magic, as it was called, in opposition to
that black art exclusively and directly derived from intercourse with Satan. Some endeavoured
to predict a man's fortune in marriage or his success in life by the aspect of the stars; others
pretended to possess spells, by which they could reduce and compel an elementary spirit to
enter within a stone, a looking-glass, or some other local place of abode, and confine her
there by the power of an especial charm, conjuring her to abide and answer the questions of
her master. Of these we shall afterwards say something; but the species of evasion now under
our investigation is that of the fanatics or impostors who pretended to draw information from
the equivocal spirits called fairies; and the number of instances before us is so great as
induces us to believe that the pretence of communicating with Elfland, and not with the actual
demon, was the manner in which the persons accused of witchcraft most frequently endeavoured
to excuse themselves, or at least to alleviate the charges brought against them of practising
sorcery. But the Scottish law did not acquit those who accomplished even praiseworthy actions,
such as remarkable cures by mysterious remedies; and the proprietor of a patent medicine who
should in those days have attested his having wrought such miracles as we see sometimes advertised,
might perhaps have forfeited his life before he established the reputation of his drop, elixir,
or pill.

Sometimes the soothsayers, who pretended to act on this information from sublunary spirits,
soared to higher matters than the practice of physic, and interfered in the fate of nations.
When James I. was murdered at Perth in 1437, a Highland woman prophesied the course and purpose
of the conspiracy, and had she been listened to, it might have been disconcerted. Being asked
her source of knowledge, she answered Hudhart had told her; which might either be the same
with Hudkin, a Dutch spirit somewhat similar to Friar Rush or Robin Goodfellow,[32] or with
the red-capped demon so powerful in the case of Lord Soulis, and other wizards, to whom the
Scots assigned rather more serious influence.

[Footnote 32: Hudkin is a very familiar devil, who will do nobody hurt, except he receive injury;
but he cannot abide that, nor yet be mocked. He talketh with men friendly, sometimes visibly,
sometimes invisibly. There go as many tales upon this Hudkin in some parts of Germany as there
did in England on Robin Goodfellow.--"Discourse concerning Devils," annexed to "The Discovery
of Witchcraft," by Reginald Scot, book i. chap. 21.]

The most special account which I have found of the intercourse between Fairyland and a female
professing to have some influence in that court, combined with a strong desire to be useful
to the distressed of both sexes, occurs in the early part of a work to which I have been exceedingly
obliged in the present and other publications.[33] The details of the evidence, which consists
chiefly of the unfortunate woman's own confession, are more full than usual, and comprehend
some curious particulars. To spare technical repetitions, I must endeavour to select the principal
facts in evidence in detail, so far as they bear upon the present subject.

[Footnote 33: The curious collection of trials, from "The Criminal Records of Scotland," now
in the course of publication, by Robert Pitcairn, Esq., affords so singular a picture of the
manners and habits of our ancestors, while yet a semibarbarous people, that it is equally worth
the attention of the historian, the antiquary, the philosopher, and the poet.]

On the 8th November, 1576, Elizabeth or Bessie Dunlop, spouse to Andro Jak, in Lyne, in the
Barony of Dalry, Ayrshire, was accused of sorcery and witchcraft and abuse of the people. Her
answers to the interrogatories of the judges or prosecutors ran thus: It being required of
her by what art she could tell of lost goods or prophesy the event of illness, she replied
that of herself she had no knowledge or science of such matters, but that when questions were
asked at her concerning such matters, she was in the habit of applying to one Thome Reid, who
died at the battle of Pinkie (10th September, 1547), as he himself affirmed, and who resolved
her any questions which she asked at him. This person she described as a respectable elderly-looking
man, grey-bearded, and wearing a grey coat, with Lombard sleeves of the auld fashion. A pair
of grey breeches and white stockings gartered above the knee, a black bonnet on his head, close
behind and plain before, with silken laces drawn through the lips thereof, and a white wand
in his hand, completed the description of what we may suppose a respectable-looking man of
the province and period. Being demanded concerning her first interview with this mysterious
Thome Reid, she gave rather an affecting account of the disasters with which she was then afflicted,
and a sense of which perhaps aided to conjure up the imaginary counsellor. She was walking
between her own house and the yard of Monkcastle, driving her cows to the common pasture, and
making heavy moan with herself, weeping bitterly for her cow that was dead, her husband and
child that were sick of the land-ill (some contagious sickness of the time), while she herself
was in a very infirm state, having lately borne a child. On this occasion she met Thome Reid
for the first time, who saluted her courteously, which she returned. "Sancta Maria, Bessie!"
said the apparition, "why must thou make such dole and weeping for any earthly thing?" "Have
I not reason for great sorrow," said she, "since our property is going to destruction, my husband
is on the point of death, my baby will not live, and I am myself at a weak point? Have I not
cause to have a sore heart?" "Bessie," answered the spirit, "thou hast displeased God in asking
something that thou should not, and I counsel you to amend your fault. I tell thee, thy child
shall die ere thou get home; thy two sheep shall also die; but thy husband shall recover, and
be as well and feir as ever he was." The good woman was something comforted to hear that her
husband was to be spared in such her general calamity, but was rather alarmed to see her ghostly
counsellor pass from her and disappear through a hole in the garden wall, seemingly too narrow
to admit of any living person passing through it. Another time he met her at the Thorn of Dawmstarnik,
and showed his ultimate purpose by offering her plenty of every thing if she would but deny
Christendom and the faith she took at the font-stone. She answered, that rather than do that
she would be torn at horses' heels, but that she would be conformable to his advice in less
matters. He parted with her in some displeasure. Shortly afterwards he appeared in her own
house about noon, which was at the time occupied by her husband and three tailors. But neither
Andrew Jak nor the three tailors were sensible of the presence of the phantom warrior who was
slain at Pinkie; so that, without attracting their observation, he led out the good-wife to
the end of the house near the kiln. Here he showed her a company of eight women and four men.
The women were busked in their plaids, and very seemly. The strangers saluted her, and said,
"Welcome, Bessie; wilt thou go with us?" But Bessie was silent, as Thome Reid had previously
recommended. After this she saw their lips move, but did not understand what they said; and
in a short time they removed from thence with a hideous ugly howling sound, like that of a
hurricane. Thome Reid then acquainted her that these were the good wights (fairies) dwelling
in the court of Elfland, who came to invite her to go thither with them. Bessie answered that,
before she went that road, it would require some consideration. Thome answered, "Seest thou
not me both meat-worth, clothes-worth, and well enough in person?" and engaged she should be
easier than ever she was. But she replied, she dwelt with her husband and children, and would
not leave them; to which Thome Reid replied, in very ill-humour, that if such were her sentiments,
she would get little good of him.

Although they thus disagreed on the principal object of Thome Reid's visits, Bessie Dunlop
affirmed he continued to come to her frequently, and assist her with his counsel; and that
if any one consulted her about the ailments of human beings or of cattle, or the recovery of
things lost and stolen, she was, by the advice of Thome Reid, always able to answer the querists.
She was also taught by her (literally ghostly) adviser how to watch the operation of the ointments
he gave her, and to presage from them the recovery or death of the patient. She said Thome
gave her herbs with his own hand, with which she cured John Jack's bairn and Wilson's of the
Townhead. She also was helpful to a waiting-woman of the young Lady Stanlie, daughter of the
Lady Johnstone, whose disease, according to the opinion of the infallible Thome Reid, was "a
cauld blood that came about her heart," and frequently caused her to swoon away. For this Thome
mixed a remedy as generous as the balm of Gilead itself. It was composed of the most potent
ale, concocted with spices and a little white sugar, to be drunk every morning before taking
food. For these prescriptions Bessie Dunlop's fee was a peck of meal and some cheese. The young
woman recovered. But the poor old Lady Kilbowie could get no help for her leg, which had been
crooked for years; for Thome Reid said the marrow of the limb was perished and the blood benumbed,
so that she would never recover, and if she sought further assistance, it would be the worse
for her. These opinions indicate common sense and prudence at least, whether we consider them
as originating with the umquhile Thome Reid, or with the culprit whom he patronized. The judgments
given in the case of stolen goods were also well chosen; for though they seldom led to recovering
the property, they generally alleged such satisfactory reasons for its not being found as effectually
to cover the credit of the prophetess. Thus Hugh Scott's cloak could not be returned, because
the thieves had gained time to make it into a kirtle. James Jamieson and James Baird would,
by her advice, have recovered their plough-irons, which had been stolen, had it not been the
will of fate that William Dougal, sheriff's officer, one of the parties searching for them,
should accept a bribe of three pounds not to find them. In short, although she lost a lace
which Thome Reid gave her out of his own hand, which, tied round women in childbirth, had the
power of helping their delivery, Bessy Dunlop's profession of a wise woman seems to have flourished
indifferently well till it drew the evil eye of the law upon her.

More minutely pressed upon the subject of her familiar, she said she had never known him while
among the living, but was aware that the person so calling himself was one who had, in his
lifetime, actually been known in middle earth as Thome Reid, officer to the Laird of Blair,
and who died at Pinkie. Of this she was made certain, because he sent her on errands to his
son, who had succeeded in his office, and to others his relatives, whom he named, and commanded
them to amend certain trespasses which he had done while alive, furnishing her with sure tokens
by which they should know that it was he who had sent her. One of these errands was somewhat
remarkable. She was to remind a neighbour of some particular which she was to recall to his
memory by the token that Thome Reid and he had set out together to go to the battle which took
place on the Black Saturday; that the person to whom the message was sent was inclined rather
to move in a different direction, but that Thome Reid heartened him to pursue his journey,
and brought him to the Kirk of Dalry, where he bought a parcel of figs, and made a present
of them to his companion, tying them in his handkerchief; after which they kept company till
they came to the field upon the fatal Black Saturday, as the battle of Pinkie was long called.

Of Thome's other habits, she said that he always behaved with the strictest propriety, only
that he pressed her to go to Elfland with him, and took hold of her apron as if to pull her
along. Again, she said she had seen him in public places, both in the churchyard at Dalry and
on the street of Edinburgh, where he walked about among other people, and handled goods that
were exposed to sale, without attracting any notice. She herself did not then speak to him,
for it was his command that, upon such occasions, she should never address him unless he spoke
first to her. In his theological opinions, Mr. Reid appeared to lean to the Church of Rome,
which, indeed, was most indulgent to the fairy folk. He said that the new law, i.e., the Reformation,
was not good, and that the old faith should return again, but not exactly as it had been before.
Being questioned why this visionary sage attached himself to her more than to others, the accused
person replied, that when she was confined in childbirth of one of her boys, a stout woman
came into her hut, and sat down on a bench by her bed, like a mere earthly gossip; that she
demanded a drink, and was accommodated accordingly; and thereafter told the invalid that the
child should die, but that her husband, who was then ailing, should recover. This visit seems
to have been previous to her meeting Thome Reid near Monkcastle garden, for that worthy explained
to her that her stout visitant was Queen of Fairies, and that he had since attended her by
the express command of that lady, his queen and mistress. This reminds us of the extreme doting
attachment which the Queen of the Fairies is represented to have taken for Dapper in "The Alchemist."
Thome Reid attended her, it would seem, on being summoned thrice, and appeared to her very
often within four years. He often requested her to go with him on his return to Fairyland,
and when she refused, he shook his head, and said she would repent it.

If the delicacy of the reader's imagination be a little hurt at imagining the elegant Titania
in the disguise of a stout woman, a heavy burden for a clumsy bench, drinking what Christopher
Sly would have called very sufficient small-beer with a peasant's wife, the following description
of the fairy host may come more near the idea he has formed of that invisible company:--Bessie
Dunlop declared that as she went to tether her nag by the side of Restalrig Loch (Lochend,
near the eastern port of Edinburgh), she heard a tremendous sound of a body of riders rushing
past her with such a noise as if heaven and earth would come together; that the sound swept
past her and seemed to rush into the lake with a hideous rumbling noise. All this while she
saw nothing; but Thome Reid showed her that the noise was occasioned by the wights, who were
performing one of their cavalcades upon earth.

The intervention of Thome Reid as a partner in her trade of petty sorcery did not avail poor
Bessie Dunlop, although his affection to her was apparently entirely platonic--the greatest
familiarity on which he ventured was taking hold of her gown as he pressed her to go with him
to Elfland. Neither did it avail her that the petty sorcery which she practised was directed
to venial or even beneficial purposes. The sad words on the margin of the record, "Convict
and burnt," sufficiently express the tragic conclusion of a curious tale.

Alison Pearson, in Byrehill, was, 28th May, 1588, tried for invocation of the spirits of the
devil, specially in the vision of one Mr. William Sympson, her cousin and her mother's brother's
son, who she affirmed was a great scholar and doctor of medicine, dealing with charms and abusing
the ignorant people. Against this poor woman her own confession, as in the case of Bessie Dunlop,
was the principal evidence.

As Bessie Dunlop had Thome Reid, Alison Pearson had also a familiar in the court of Elfland.
This was her relative, William Sympson aforesaid, born in Stirling, whose father was king's
smith in that town. William had been taken away, she said, by a man of Egypt (a Gipsy), who
carried him to Egypt along with him; that he remained there twelve years, and that his father
died in the meantime for opening a priest's book and looking upon it. She declared that she
had renewed her acquaintance with her kinsman so soon as he returned. She further confessed
that one day as she passed through Grange Muir she lay down in a fit of sickness, and that
a green man came to her, and said if she would be faithful he might do her good. In reply she
charged him, in the name of God and by the law he lived upon, if he came for her soul's good
to tell his errand. On this the green man departed. But he afterwards appeared to her with
many men and women with him, and against her will she was obliged to pass with them farther
than she could tell, with piping, mirth, and good cheer; also that she accompanied them into
Lothian, where she saw puncheons of wine with tasses or drinking-cups. She declared that when
she told of these things she was sorely tormented, and received a blow that took away the power
of her left side, and left on it an ugly mark which had no feeling. She also confessed that
she had seen before sunrise the good neighbours make their salves with pans and fires. Sometimes,
she said, they came in such fearful forms as frightened her very much. At other times they
spoke her fair, and promised her that she should never want if faithful, but if she told of
them and their doings, they threatened to martyr her. She also boasted of her favour with the
Queen of Elfland and the good friends she had at that court, notwithstanding that she was sometimes
in disgrace there, and had not seen the queen for seven years. She said William Sympson is
with the fairies, and that he lets her know when they are coming; and that he taught her what
remedies to use, and how to apply them. She declared that when a whirlwind blew the fairies
were commonly there, and that her cousin Sympson confessed that every year the tithe of them
were taken away to hell. The celebrated Patrick Adamson, an excellent divine and accomplished
scholar, created by James VI. Archbishop of St. Andrews, swallowed the prescriptions of this
poor hypochondriac with good faith and will, eating a stewed fowl, and drinking out at two
draughts a quart of claret, medicated with the drugs she recommended. According to the belief
of the time, this Alison Pearson transferred the bishop's indisposition from himself to a white
palfrey, which died in consequence. There is a very severe libel on him for this and other
things unbecoming his order, with which he was charged, and from which we learn that Lethington
and Buccleuch were seen by Dame Pearson in the Fairyland.[34] This poor woman's kinsman, Sympson,
did not give better shelter to her than Thome Reid had done to her predecessor. The margin
of the court-book again bears the melancholy and brief record, "Convicta et combusta."

[Footnote 34: See "Scottish Poems," edited by John G. Dalzell, p. 321.]

The two poor women last mentioned are the more to be pitied as, whether enthusiasts or impostors,
they practised their supposed art exclusively for the advantage of mankind. The following extraordinary
detail involves persons of far higher quality, and who sought to familiars for more baneful
purposes.

Katherine Munro, Lady Fowlis, by birth Katherine Ross of Balnagowan, of high rank, both by
her own family and that of her husband, who was the fifteenth Baron of Fowlis, and chief of
the warlike clan of Munro, had a stepmother's quarrel with Robert Munro, eldest son of her
husband, which she gratified by forming a scheme for compassing his death by unlawful arts.
Her proposed advantage in this was, that the widow of Robert, when he was thus removed, should
marry with her brother, George Ross of Balnagowan; and for this purpose, her sister-in-law,
the present Lady Balnagowan, was also to be removed. Lady Fowlis, if the indictment had a syllable
of truth, carried on her practices with the least possible disguise. She assembled persons
of the lowest order, stamped with an infamous celebrity as witches; and, besides making pictures
or models in clay, by which they hoped to bewitch Robert Munro and Lady Balnagowan, they brewed,
upon one occasion, poison so strong that a page tasting of it immediately took sickness. Another
earthen jar (Scotticè pig) of the same deleterious liquor was prepared by the Lady Fowlis,
and sent with her own nurse for the purpose of administering it to Robert Munro. The messenger
having stumbled in the dark, broke the jar, and a rank grass grew on the spot where it fell,
which sheep and cattle abhorred to touch; but the nurse, having less sense than the brute beasts,
and tasting of the liquor which had been spilled, presently died. What is more to our present
purpose, Lady Fowlis made use of the artillery of Elfland in order to destroy her stepson and
sister-in-law. Laskie Loncart, one of the assistant hags, produced two of what the common people
call elf-arrow heads, being, in fact, the points of flint used for arming the ends of arrow-shafts
in the most ancient times, but accounted by the superstitious the weapons by which the fairies
were wont to destroy both man and beast. The pictures of the intended victims were then set
up at the north end of the apartment, and Christian Ross Malcolmson, an assistant hag, shot
two shafts at the image of Lady Balnagowan, and three against the picture of Robert Munro,
by which shots they were broken, and Lady Fowlis commanded new figures to be modelled. Many
similar acts of witchcraft and of preparing poisons were alleged against Lady Fowlis.

Her son-in-law, Hector Munro, one of his stepmother's prosecutors, was, for reasons of his
own, active in a similar conspiracy against the life of his own brother. The rites that he
practised were of an uncouth, barbarous, and unusual nature. Hector, being taken ill, consulted
on his case some of the witches or soothsayers, to whom this family appears to have been partial.
The answer was unanimous that he must die unless the principal man of his blood should suffer
death in his stead. It was agreed that the vicarious substitute for Hector must mean George
Munro, brother to him by the half-blood (the son of the Katharine Lady Fowlis before commemorated).
Hector sent at least seven messengers for this young man, refusing to receive any of his other
friends till he saw the substitute whom he destined to take his place in the grave. When George
at length arrived, Hector, by advice of a notorious witch, called Marion MacIngarach, and of
his own foster-mother, Christian Neil Dalyell, received him with peculiar coldness and restraint.
He did not speak for the space of an hour, till his brother broke silence and asked, "How he
did?" Hector replied, "That he was the better George had come to visit him," and relapsed into
silence, which seemed singular when compared with the anxiety he had displayed to see his brother;
but it was, it seems, a necessary part of the spell. After midnight the sorceress Marion MacIngarach,
the chief priestess or Nicneven of the company, went forth with her accomplices, carrying spades
with them. They then proceeded to dig a grave not far from the seaside, upon a piece of land
which formed the boundary betwixt two proprietors. The grave was made as nearly as possible
to the size of their patient Hector Munro, the earth dug out of the grave being laid aside
for the time. After ascertaining that the operation of the charm on George Munro, the destined
victim, should be suspended for a time, to avoid suspicion, the conspirators proceeded to work
their spell in a singular, impressive, and, I believe, unique manner. The time being January,
1588, the patient, Hector Munro, was borne forth in a pair of blankets, accompanied with all
who were entrusted with the secret, who were warned to be strictly silent till the chief sorceress
should have received her information from the angel whom they served. Hector Munro was carried
to his grave and laid therein, the earth being filled in on him, and the grave secured with
stakes as at a real funeral. Marion MacIngarach, the Hecate of the night, then sat down by
the grave, while Christian Neil Dalyell, the foster-mother, ran the breadth of about nine ridges
distant, leading a boy in her hand, and, coming again to the grave where Hector Munro was interred
alive, demanded of the witch which victim she would choose, who replied that she chose Hector
to live and George to die in his stead. This form of incantation was thrice repeated ere Mr.
Hector was removed from his chilling bed in a January grave and carried home, all remaining
mute as before. The consequence of a process which seems ill-adapted to produce the former
effect was that Hector Munro recovered, and after the intervention of twelve months George
Munro, his brother, died. Hector took the principal witch into high favour, made her keeper
of his sheep, and evaded, it is said, to present her to trial when charged at Aberdeen to produce
her. Though one or two inferior persons suffered death on account of the sorceries practised
in the house of Fowlis, the Lady Katharine and her stepson Hector had both the unusual good
fortune to be found not guilty. Mr. Pitcairn remarks that the juries, being composed of subordinate
persons not suitable to the rank or family of the person tried, has all the appearance of having
been packed on purpose for acquittal. It might also, in some interval of good sense, creep
into the heads of Hector Munro's assize that the enchantment being performed in January, 1588,
and the deceased being only taken ill of his fatal disease in April, 1590, the distance between
the events might seem too great to admit the former being regarded as the cause of the latter.[35]

[Footnote 35: Pitcairn's "Trials," vol. i. pp. 191-201.]

Another instance of the skill of a sorcerer being traced to the instructions of the elves is
found in the confession of John Stewart, called a vagabond, but professing skill in palmistry
and jugglery, and accused of having assisted Margaret Barclay, or Dein, to sink or cast away
a vessel belonging to her own good brother. It being demanded of him by what means he professed
himself to have knowledge of things to come, the said John confessed that the space of twenty-six
years ago, he being travelling on All-Hallow Even night, between the towns of Monygoif (so
spelled) and Clary, in Galway, he met with the King of the Fairies and his company, and that
the King of the Fairies gave him a stroke with a white rod over the forehead, which took from
him the power of speech and the use of one eye, which he wanted for the space of three years.
He declared that the use of speech and eyesight was restored to him by the King of Fairies
and his company, on an Hallowe'en night, at the town of Dublin, in Ireland, and that since
that time he had joined these people every Saturday at seven o'clock, and remained with them
all the night; also, that they met every Hallow-tide, sometimes on Lanark Hill (Tintock, perhaps),
sometimes on Kilmaurs Hill, and that he was then taught by them. He pointed out the spot of
his forehead on which, he said, the King of the Fairies struck him with a white rod, whereupon
the prisoner, being blindfolded, they pricked the spot with a large pin, whereof he expressed
no sense or feeling. He made the usual declaration, that he had seen many persons at the Court
of Fairy, whose names he rehearsed particularly, and declared that all such persons as are
taken away by sudden death go with the King of Elfland. With this man's evidence we have at
present no more to do, though we may revert to the execrable proceedings which then took place
against this miserable juggler and the poor women who were accused of the same crime. At present
it is quoted as another instance of a fortune-teller referring to Elfland as the source of
his knowledge.

At Auldearne, a parish and burgh of barony in the county of Nairne, the epidemic terror of
witches seems to have gone very far. The confession of a woman called Isobel Gowdie, of date
April, 1662, implicates, as usual, the Court of Fairy, and blends the operations of witchcraft
with the facilities afforded by the fairies. These need be the less insisted upon in this place,
as the arch-fiend, and not the elves, had the immediate agency in the abominations which she
narrates. Yet she had been, she said, in the Dounie Hills, and got meat there from the Queen
of Fairies more than she could eat. She added, that the queen is bravely clothed in white linen
and in white and brown cloth, that the King of Fairy is a brave man; and there were elf-bulls
roaring and skoilling at the entrance of their palace, which frightened her much. On another
occasion this frank penitent confesses her presence at a rendezvous of witches, Lammas, 1659,
where, after they had rambled through the country in different shapes--of cats, hares, and
the like--eating, drinking, and wasting the goods of their neighbours into whose houses they
could penetrate, they at length came to the dounie Hills, where the mountain opened to receive
them, and they entered a fair big room, as bright as day. At the entrance ramped and roared
the large fairy bulls, which always alarmed Isobel Gowdie. These animals are probably the water-bulls,
famous both in Scottish and Irish tradition, which are not supposed to be themselves altogether
canny or safe to have concern with. In their caverns the fairies manufactured those elf-arrow
heads with which the witches and they wrought so much evil. The elves and the arch-fiend laboured
jointly at this task, the former forming and sharpening the dart from the rough flint, and
the latter perfecting and finishing (or, as it is called, dighting) it. Then came the sport
of the meeting. The witches bestrode either corn-straws, bean-stalks, or rushes, and calling,
"Horse and Hattock, in the Devil's name!" which is the elfin signal for mounting, they flew
wherever they listed. If the little whirlwind which accompanies their transportation passed
any mortal who neglected to bless himself, all such fell under the witches' power, and they
acquired the right of shooting at him. The penitent prisoner gives the names of many whom she
and her sisters had so slain, the death for which she was most sorry being that of William
Brown, in the Milntown of Mains. A shaft was also aimed at the Reverend Harrie Forbes, a minister
who was present at the examination of Isobel, the confessing party. The arrow fell short, and
the witch would have taken aim again, but her master forbade her, saying the reverend gentleman's
life was not subject to their power. To this strange and very particular confession we shall
have occasion to recur when witchcraft is the more immediate subject. What is above narrated
marks the manner in which the belief in that crime was blended with the fairy superstition.

To proceed to more modern instances of persons supposed to have fallen under the power of the
fairy race, we must not forget the Reverend Robert Kirke, minister of the Gospel, the first
translator of the Psalms into Gaelic verse. He was, in the end of the seventeenth century,
successively minister of the Highland parishes of Balquidder and Aberfoyle, lying in the most
romantic district of Perthshire, and within the Highland line. These beautiful and wild regions,
comprehending so many lakes, rocks, sequestered valleys, and dim copsewoods, are not even yet
quite abandoned by the fairies, who have resolutely maintained secure footing in a region so
well suited for their residence. Indeed, so much was this the case formerly, that Mr. Kirke,
while in his latter charge of Aberfoyle, found materials for collecting and compiling his Essay
on the "Subterranean and for the most part Invisible People heretofore going under the name
of Elves, Fawnes, and Fairies, or the like."[36] In this discourse, the author, "with undoubting
mind," describes the fairy race as a sort of astral spirits, of a kind betwixt humanity and
angels--says, that they have children, nurses, marriages, deaths, and burials, like mortals
in appearance; that, in some respect, they represent mortal men, and that individual apparitions,
or double-men, are found among them, corresponding with mortals existing on earth. Mr. Kirke
accuses them of stealing the milk from the cows, and of carrying away, what is more material,
the women in pregnancy, and new-born children from their nurses. The remedy is easy in both
cases. The milk cannot be stolen if the mouth of the calf, before he is permitted to suck,
be rubbed with a certain balsam, very easily come by; and the woman in travail is safe if a
piece of cold iron is put into the bed. Mr. Kirke accounts for this by informing us that the
great northern mines of iron, lying adjacent to the place of eternal punishment, have a savour
odious to these "fascinating creatures." They have, says the reverend author, what one would
not expect, many light toyish books (novels and plays, doubtless), others on Rosycrucian subjects,
and of an abstruse mystical character; but they have no Bibles or works of devotion. The essayist
fails not to mention the elf-arrow heads, which have something of the subtlety of thunderbolts,
and can mortally wound the vital parts without breaking the skin. These wounds, he says, he
has himself observed in beasts, and felt the fatal lacerations which he could not see.

[Footnote 36: The title continues:--"Among the Low Country Scots, as they are described by
those who have the second sight, and now, to occasion farther enquiry, collected and compared
by a circumspect enquirer residing among the Scottish-Irish (i.e., the Gael, or Highlanders)
in Scotland." It was printed with the author's name in 1691, and reprinted, Edinburgh, 1815,
for Longman & Co.]

It was by no means to be supposed that the elves, so jealous and irritable a race as to be
incensed against those who spoke of them under their proper names, should be less than mortally
offended at the temerity of the reverend author, who had pryed so deeply into their mysteries,
for the purpose of giving them to the public. Although, therefore, the learned divine's monument,
with his name duly inscribed, is to be seen at the east end of the churchyard at Aberfoyle,
yet those acquainted with his real history do not believe that he enjoys the natural repose
of the tomb. His successor, the Rev. Dr. Grahame, has informed us of the general belief that,
as Mr. Kirke was walking one evening in his night-gown upon a Dun-shi, or fairy mount, in the
vicinity of the manse or parsonage, behold! he sunk down in what seemed to be a fit of apoplexy,
which the unenlightened took for death, while the more understanding knew it to be a swoon
produced by the supernatural influence of the people whose precincts he had violated. After
the ceremony of a seeming funeral, the form of the Rev. Robert Kirke appeared to a relation,
and commanded him to go to Grahame of Duchray, ancestor of the present General Graham Stirling.
"Say to Duchray, who is my cousin as well as your own, that I am not dead, but a captive in
Fairyland, and only one chance remains for my liberation. When the posthumous child, of which
my wife has been delivered since my disappearance, shall be brought to baptism, I will appear
in the room, when, if Duchray shall throw over my head the knife or dirk which he holds in
his hand, I may be restored to society; but if this opportunity is neglected, I am lost for
ever." Duchray was apprised of what was to be done. The ceremony took place, and the apparition
of Mr. Kirke was visibly seen while they were seated at table; but Grahame of Duchray, in his
astonishment, failed to perform the ceremony enjoined, and it is to be feared that Mr. Kirke
still "drees his weird in Fairyland," the Elfin state declaring to him, as the Ocean to poor
Falconer, who perished at sea after having written his popular poem of "The Shipwreck"--

"Thou hast proclaimed our power--be thou our prey!"

Upon this subject the reader may consult a very entertaining little volume, called "Sketches
of Perthshire,"[37] by the Rev. Dr. Grahame of Aberfoyle. The terrible visitation of fairy
vengeance which has lighted upon Mr. Kirke has not intimidated his successor, an excellent
man and good antiquary, from affording us some curious information on fairy superstition. He
tells us that these capricious elves are chiefly dangerous on a Friday, when, as the day of
the Crucifixion, evil spirits have most power, and mentions their displeasure at any one who
assumes their accustomed livery of green, a colour fatal to several families in Scotland, to
the whole race of the gallant Grahames in particular; insomuch that we have heard that in battle
a Grahame is generally shot through the green check of his plaid; moreover, that a veteran
sportsman of the name, having come by a bad fall, he thought it sufficient to account for it,
that he had a piece of green whip-cord to complete the lash of his hunting-whip. I remember,
also, that my late amiable friend, James Grahame, author of "The Sabbath," would not break
through this ancient prejudice of his clan, but had his library table covered with blue or
black cloth, rather than use the fated colour commonly employed on such occasions.

[Footnote 37: Edinburgh, 1812.]

To return from the Perthshire fairies, I may quote a story of a nature somewhat similar to
that of Mas Robert Kirke. The life of the excellent person who told it was, for the benefit
of her friends and the poor, protracted to an unusual duration; so I conceive that this adventure,
which took place in her childhood, might happen before the middle of last century. She was
residing with some relations near the small seaport town of North Berwick, when the place and
its vicinity were alarmed by the following story:--

An industrious man, a weaver in the little town, was married to a beautiful woman, who, after
bearing two or three children, was so unfortunate as to die during the birth of a fourth child.
The infant was saved, but the mother had expired in convulsions; and as she was much disfigured
after death, it became an opinion among her gossips that, from some neglect of those who ought
to have watched the sick woman, she must have been carried off by the elves, and this ghastly
corpse substituted in the place of the body. The widower paid little attention to these rumours,
and, after bitterly lamenting his wife for a year of mourning, began to think on the prudence
of forming a new marriage, which, to a poor artisan with so young a family, and without the
assistance of a housewife, was almost a matter of necessity. He readily found a neighbour with
whose good looks he was satisfied, whilst her character for temper seemed to warrant her good
usage of his children. He proposed himself and was accepted, and carried the names of the parties
to the clergyman (called, I believe, Mr. Matthew Reid) for the due proclamation of banns. As
the man had really loved his late partner, it is likely that this proposed decisive alteration
of his condition brought back many reflections concerning the period of their union, and with
these recalled the extraordinary rumours which were afloat at the time of her decease, so that
the whole forced upon him the following lively dream:--As he lay in his bed, awake as he thought,
he beheld, at the ghostly hour of midnight, the figure of a female dressed in white, who entered
his hut, stood by the side of his bed, and appeared to him the very likeness of his late wife.
He conjured her to speak, and with astonishment heard her say, like the minister of Aberfoyle,
that she was not dead, but the unwilling captive of the Good Neighbours. Like Mr. Kirke, too,
she told him that if all the love which he once had for her was not entirely gone, an opportunity
still remained of recovering her, or winning her back, as it was usually termed, from the comfortless
realms of Elfland. She charged him on a certain day of the ensuing week that he should convene
the most respectable housekeepers in the town, with the clergyman at their head, and should
disinter the coffin in which she was supposed to have been buried. "The clergyman is to recite
certain prayers, upon which," said the apparition, "I will start from the coffin and fly with
great speed round the church, and you must have the fleetest runner of the parish (naming a
man famed for swiftness) to pursue me, and such a one, the smith, renowned for his strength,
to hold me fast after I am overtaken; and in that case I shall, by the prayers of the church,
and the efforts of my loving husband and neighbours, again recover my station in human society."
In the morning the poor widower was distressed with the recollection of his dream, but, ashamed
and puzzled, took no measures in consequence. A second night, as is not very surprising, the
visitation was again repeated. On the third night she appeared with a sorrowful and displeased
countenance, upbraided him with want of love and affection, and conjured him, for the last
time, to attend to her instructions, which, if he now neglected, she would never have power
to visit earth or communicate with him again. In order to convince him there was no delusion,
he "saw in his dream" that she took up the nursling at whose birth she had died, and gave it
suck; she spilled also a drop or two of her milk on the poor man's bed-clothes, as if to assure
him of the reality of the vision.

The next morning the terrified widower carried a statement of his perplexity to Mr. Matthew
Reid, the clergyman. This reverend person, besides being an excellent divine in other respects,
was at the same time a man of sagacity, who understood the human passions. He did not attempt
to combat the reality of the vision which had thrown his parishioner into this tribulation,
but he contended it could be only an illusion of the devil. He explained to the widower that
no created being could have the right or power to imprison or detain the soul of a Christian--conjured
him not to believe that his wife was otherwise disposed of than according to God's pleasure--assured
him that Protestant doctrine utterly denies the existence of any middle state in the world
to come--and explained to him that he, as a clergyman of the Church of Scotland, neither could
nor dared authorize opening graves or using the intervention of prayer to sanction rites of
a suspicious character. The poor man, confounded and perplexed by various feelings, asked his
pastor what he should do. "I will give you my best advice," said the clergyman. "Get your new
bride's consent to be married to-morrow, or to-day, if you can; I will take it on me to dispense
with the rest of the banns, or proclaim them three times in one day. You will have a new wife,
and, if you think of the former, it will be only as of one from whom death has separated you,
and for whom you may have thoughts of affection and sorrow, but as a saint in Heaven, and not
as a prisoner in Elfland." The advice was taken, and the perplexed widower had no more visitations
from his former spouse.

An instance, perhaps the latest which has been made public, of communication with the Restless
People--(a more proper epithet than that of Daoine Shi, or Men of Peace, as they are called
in Gaelic)--came under Pennant's notice so late as during that observant traveller's tour in
1769. Being perhaps the latest news from the invisible commonwealth, we give the tourist's
own words.

"A poor visionary who had been working in his cabbage-garden (in Breadalbane) imagined that
he was raised suddenly up into the air, and conveyed over a wall into an adjacent corn-field;
that he found himself surrounded by a crowd of men and women, many of whom he knew to have
been dead for some years, and who appeared to him skimming over the tops of the unbending corn,
and mingling together like bees going to hive; that they spoke an unknown language, and with
a hollow sound; that they very roughly pushed him to and fro, but on his uttering the name
of God all vanished, but a female sprite, who, seizing him by the shoulder, obliged him to
promise an assignation at that very hour that day seven-night; that he then found his hair
was all tied in double knots (well known by the name of elf-locks), and that he had almost
lost his speech; that he kept his word with the spectre, whom he soon saw floating through
the air towards him; that he spoke to her, but she told him she was at that time in too much
haste to attend to him, but bid him go away and no harm should befall him, and so the affair
rested when I left the country. But it is incredible the mischief these ægri somnia did in
the neighbourhood. The friends and neighbours of the deceased, whom the old dreamer had named,
were in the utmost anxiety at finding them in such bad company in the other world; the almost
extinct belief of the old idle tales began to gain ground, and the good minister will have
many a weary discourse and exhortation before he can eradicate the absurd ideas this idle story
has revived."[38]

[Footnote 38: Pennant's "Tour in Scotland," vol. i. p. 110.]

It is scarcely necessary to add that this comparatively recent tale is just the counterpart
of the story of Bessie Dunlop, Alison Pearson, and of the Irish butler who was so nearly carried
off, all of whom found in Elfland some friend, formerly of middle earth, who attached themselves
to the child of humanity, and who endeavoured to protect a fellow-mortal against their less
philanthropic companions.

These instances may tend to show how the fairy superstition, which, in its general sense of
worshipping the Dii Campestres, was much the older of the two, came to bear upon and have connexion
with that horrid belief in witchcraft which cost so many innocent persons and crazy impostors
their lives for the supposed commission of impossible crimes. In the next chapter I propose
to trace how the general disbelief in the fairy creed began to take place, and gradually brought
into discredit the supposed feats of witchcraft, which afforded pretext for such cruel practical
consequences.

LETTER VI.

    Immediate Effect of Christianity on Articles of Popular
    Superstition--Chaucer's Account of the Roman Catholic Priests
    banishing the Fairies--Bishop Corbett imputes the same Effect to the
    Reformation--His Verses on that Subject--His Iter
    Septentrionale--Robin Goodfellow and other Superstitions mentioned
    by Reginald Scot--Character of the English Fairies--The Tradition
    had become obsolete in that Author's Time--That of Witches remained
    in vigour--But impugned by various Authors after the Reformation, as
    Wierus, Naudæus, Scot, and others--Demonology defended by Bodinus,
    Remigius, &c.--Their mutual Abuse of each other--Imperfection of
    Physical Science at this Period, and the Predominance of Mysticism
    in that Department.

Although the influence of the Christian religion was not introduced to the nations of Europe
with such radiance as to dispel at once those clouds of superstition which continued to obscure
the understanding of hasty and ill-instructed converts, there can be no doubt that its immediate
operation went to modify the erroneous and extravagant articles of credulity which lingered
behind the old pagan faith, and which gave way before it, in proportion as its light became
more pure and refined from the devices of men.

The poet Chaucer, indeed, pays the Church of Rome, with its monks and preaching friars, the
compliment of having, at an early period, expelled from the land all spirits of an inferior
and less holy character. The verses are curious as well as picturesque, and may go some length
to establish the existence of doubts concerning the general belief in fairies among the well-instructed
in the time of Edward III.

The fairies of whom the bard of Woodstock talks are, it will be observed, the ancient Celtic
breed, and he seems to refer for the authorities of his tale to Bretagne, or Armorica, a genuine
Celtic colony:--

"In old time of the King Artour, Of which that Bretons speken great honour, All was this land
fulfilled of faerie; The Elf queen, with her joly company, Danced full oft in many a grene
mead. This was the old opinion, as I rede-- I speake of many hundred years ago, But now can
no man see no elves mo. For now the great charity and prayers Of limitours,[39] and other holy
freres, That searchen every land and every stream, As thick as motes in the sunne-beam, Blessing
halls, chambers, kitchenes, and boures, Cities and burghes, castles high and towers, Thropes
and barnes, sheep-pens and dairies, This maketh that there ben no fairies. For there as wont
to walken was an elf, There walketh now the limitour himself, In under nichtes and in morwenings,
And saith his mattins and his holy things, As he goeth in his limitation. Women may now go
safely up and doun; In every bush, and under every tree, There is no other incubus than he,
And he ne will don them no dishonour."[40]

[Footnote 39: Friars limited to beg within a certain district.]

[Footnote 40: "Wife of Bath's Tale."]

When we see the opinion which Chaucer has expressed of the regular clergy of his time, in some
of his other tales, we are tempted to suspect some mixture of irony in the compliment which
ascribes the exile of the fairies, with whih the land was "fulfilled" in King Arthur's time,
to the warmth and zeal of the devotion of the limitary friars. Individual instances of scepticism
there might exist among scholars, but a more modern poet, with a vein of humour not unworthy
of Geoffrey himself, has with greater probability delayed the final banishment of the fairies
from England, that is, from popular faith, till the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and has represented
their expulsion as a consequence of the change of religion. Two or three verses of this lively
satire may be very well worth the reader's notice, who must, at the same time, be informed
that the author, Dr. Corbett, was nothing less than the Bishop of Oxford and Norwich in the
beginning of the seventeenth century.

The remaining part of the poem is dedicated to the praise and glory of old William Chourne
of Staffordshire, who remained a true and stanch evidence in behalf of the departed elves,
and kept, much it would seem to the amusement of the witty bishop, an inexhaustible record
of their pranks and feats, whence the concluding verse--

"To William all give audience,
  And pray ye for his noddle,
For all the fairies' evidence
  Were lost if that were addle."[41]

[Footnote 41: Corbett's Poems, edited by Octavuis Gilchrist, p. 213.]

This William Chourne appears to have attended Dr. Corbett's party on the iter septentrionale,
"two of which were, and two desired to be, doctors;" but whether William was guide, friend,
or domestic seems uncertain. The travellers lose themselves in the mazes of Chorley Forest
on their way to Bosworth, and their route becomes so confused that they return on their steps
and labour--

     "As in a conjuror's circle--William found
     A mean for our deliverance,--'Turn your cloaks,'
     Quoth he, 'for Puck is busy in these oaks;
     If ever you at Bosworth would be found,
     Then turn your cloaks, for this is fairy ground.'
     But ere this witchcraft was performed, we meet
     A very man who had no cloven feet.
     Though William, still of little faith, has doubt,
     'Tis Robin, or some sprite that walks about.
     'Strike him,' quoth he, 'and it will turn to air--
     Cross yourselves thrice and strike it.'--'Strike that dare,'
     Thought I, 'for sure this massy forester,
     In strokes will prove the better conjuror.'
     But 'twas a gentle keeper, one that knew
     Humanity and manners, where they grew,
     And rode along so far, till he could say,
     'See, yonder Bosworth stands, and this your way.'"[42]

[Footnote 42: Corbett's Poems, p. 191.]

In this passage the bishop plainly shows the fairies maintained their influence in William's
imagination, since the courteous keeper was mistaken by their associate champion for Puck or
Robin Goodfellow. The spells resorted to to get rid of his supposed delusions are alternatively
that of turning the cloak--(recommended in visions of the second-sight or similar illusions
as a means of obtaining a certainty concerning the being which is before imperfectly seen[43])--and
that of exorcising the spirit with a cudgel; which last, Corbett prudently thinks, ought not
to be resorted to unless under an absolute conviction that the exorcist is the stronger party.
Chaucer, therefore, could not be serious in averring that the fairy superstitions were obsolete
in his day, since they were found current three centuries afterwards.

[Footnote 43: A common instance is that of a person haunted with a resemblance whose face he
cannot see. If he turn his cloak or plaid, he will obtain the full sight which he desires,
and may probably find it to be his own fetch, or wraith, or double-ganger.]

It is not the less certain that, as knowledge and religion became more widely and brightly
displayed over any country, the superstitious fancies of the people sunk gradually in esteem
and influence; and in the time of Queen Elizabeth the unceasing labour of many and popular
preachers, who declaimed against the "splendid miracles" of the Church of Rome, produced also
its natural effect upon the other stock of superstitions. "Certainly," said Reginald Scot,
talking of times before his own, "some one knave in a white sheet hath cozened and abused many
thousands, specially when Robin Goodfellow kept such a coil in the country. Well, thanks be
to God, this wretched and cowardly infidelity, since the preaching of the Gospel, is in part
forgotten, and doubtless the rest of these illusions will in a short time, by God's grace,
be detected and vanish away."[44]

[Footnote 44: Reginald Scot's "Discovery of Witchcraft," book vii. chap. 15.]

It would require a better demonologist than I am to explain the various obsolete superstitions
which Reginald Scot has introduced as articles of the old English faith, into the preceding
passage. I might indeed say the Phuca is a Celtic superstition, from which the word Pook or
Puckle was doubtless derived; and I might conjecture that the man-in-the-oak was the same with
the Erl-König of the Germans; and that the hellwain were a kind of wandering spirits, the descendants
of a champion named Hellequin, who are introduced into the romance of Richard sans Peur. But
most antiquaries will be at fault concerning the spoorn, Kitt-with-the-candlestick, Boneless,
and some others. The catalogue, however, serves to show what progress the English have made
in two centuries, in forgetting the very names of objects which had been the sources of terror
to their ancestors of the Elizabethan age.

Before leaving the subject of fairy superstition in England we may remark that it was of a
more playful and gentle, less wild and necromantic character, than that received among the
sister people. The amusements of the southern fairies were light and sportive; their resentments
were satisfied with pinching or scratching the objects of their displeasure; their peculiar
sense of cleanliness rewarded the housewives with the silver token in the shoe; their nicety
was extreme concerning any coarseness or negligence which could offend their delicacy; and
I cannot discern, except, perhaps, from the insinuations of some scrupulous divines, that they
were vassals to or in close alliance with the infernals, as there is too much reason to believe
was the case with their North British sisterhood.[45] The common nursery story cannot be forgotten,
how, shortly after the death of what is called a nice tidy housewife, the Elfin band was shocked
to see that a person of different character, with whom the widower had filled his deserted
arms, instead of the nicely arranged little loaf of the whitest bread, and a basin of sweet
cream, duly placed for their refreshment by the deceased, had substituted a brown loaf and
a cobb of herrings. Incensed at such a coarse regale, the elves dragged the peccant housewife
out of bed, and pulled her down the wooden stairs by the heels, repeating, at the same time,
in scorn of her churlish hospitality--

"Brown bread and herring cobb!
 Thy fat sides shall have many a bob!"

But beyond such playful malice they had no desire to extend their resentment.

[Footnote 45: Dr. Jackson, in his "Treatise on Unbelief," opines for the severe opinion. "Thus
are the Fayries, from difference of events ascribed to them, divided into good and bad, when
as it is but one and the same malignant fiend that meddles in both; seeking sometimes to be
feared, otherwhiles to be loued as God, for the bodily harmes or good turnes supposed to be
in his power."--Jackson on Unbelief, p. 178, edit. 1625.]

The constant attendant upon the English Fairy court was the celebrated Puck, or Robin Goodfellow,
who to the elves acted in some measure as the jester or clown of the company--(a character
then to be found in the establishment of every person of quality)--or to use a more modern
comparison, resembled the Pierrot of the pantomime. His jests were of the most simple and at
the same time the broadest comic character--to mislead a clown on his path homeward, to disguise
himself like a stool, in order to induce an old gossip to commit the egregious mistake of sitting
down on the floor when she expected to repose on a chair, were his special enjoyments. If he
condescended to do some work for the sleeping family, in which he had some resemblance to the
Scottish household spirit called a Brownie, the selfish Puck was far from practising this labour
on the disinterested principle of the northern goblin, who, if raiment or food was left in
his way and for his use, departed from the family in displeasure. Robin Goodfellow, on the
contrary, must have both his food and his rest, as Milton informs us, amid his other notices
of country superstitions, in the poem of L'Allegro. And it is to be noticed that he represents
these tales of the fairies, told round the cottage hearth, as of a cheerful rather than a serious
cast; which illustrates what I have said concerning the milder character of the southern superstitions,
as compared with those of the same class in Scotland--the stories of which are for the most
part of a frightful and not seldom of a disgusting quality.

Poor Robin, however, between whom and King Oberon Shakespeare contrives to keep a degree of
distinct subordination, which for a moment deceives us by its appearance of reality, notwithstanding
his turn for wit and humour, had been obscured by oblivion even in the days of Queen Bess.
We have already seen, in a passage quoted from Reginald Scot, that the belief was fallen into
abeyance; that which follows from the same author affirms more positively that Robin's date
was over:--

"Know ye this, by the way, that heretofore Robin Goodfellow and Hobgoblin were as terrible,
and also as credible, to the people as hags and witches be now; and in time to come a witch
will be as much derided and condemned, and as clearly perceived, as the illusion and knavery
of Robin Goodfellow, upon whom there have gone as many and as credible tales as witchcraft,
saving that it hath not pleased the translators of the Bible to call spirits by the name of
Robin Goodfellow, as they have diviners, soothsayers, poisoners, and cozeners by the name of
witches."[46] In the same tone Reginald Scot addresses the reader in the preface:--"To make
a solemn suit to you that are partial readers to set aside partiality, to take in good part
my writings, and with indifferent eyes to look upon my book, were labour lost and time ill-employed;
for I should no more prevail herein than if, a hundred years since, I should have entreated
your predecessors to believe that Robin Goodfellow, that great and ancient bull-beggar, had
been but a cozening merchant, and no devil indeed. But Robin Goodfellow ceaseth now to be much
feared, and Popery is sufficiently discovered; nevertheless, witches' charms and conjurers'
cozenage are yet effectual." This passage seems clearly to prove that the belief in Robin Goodfellow
and his fairy companions was now out of date; while that as to witchcraft, as was afterwards
but too well shown, kept its ground against argument and controversy, and survived "to shed
more blood." These superstitions have already survived their best and most useful purpose,
having been embalmed in the poetry of Milton and of Shakespeare, as well as writers only inferior
to these great names. Of Spenser we must say nothing, because in his "Faery Queen" the title
is the only circumstance which connects his splendid allegory with the popular superstition,
and, as he uses it, means nothing more than an Utopia or nameless country.

With the fairy popular creed fell, doubtless, many subordinate articles of credulity in England,
but the belief in witches kept its ground. It was rooted in the minds of the common people,
as well by the easy solution it afforded of much which they found otherwise hard to explain,
as in reverence to the Holy Scriptures, in which the word witch, being used in several places,
conveyed to those who did not trouble themselves about the nicety of the translation from the
Eastern tongues, the inference that the same species of witches were meant as those against
whom modern legislation had, in most European nations, directed the punishment of death. These
two circumstances furnished the numerous believers in witchcraft with arguments in divinity
and law which they conceived irrefragable.

Notwithstanding these specious reasons, the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries were periods
when the revival of learning, the invention of printing, the fearless investigations of the
Reformers into subjects thought formerly too sacred for consideration of any save the clergy,
had introduced a system of doubt, enquiry, disregard of authority, when unsupported by argument,
and unhesitating exercise of the private judgment, on subjects which had occupied the bulls
of popes and decrees of councils. In short, the spirit of the age was little disposed to spare
error, however venerable, or countenance imposture, however sanctioned by length of time and
universal acquiescence. Learned writers arose in different countries to challenge the very
existence of this imaginary crime, to rescue the reputation of the great men whose knowledge,
superior to that of their age, had caused them to be suspected of magic, and to put a stop
to the horrid superstition whose victims were the aged, ignorant, and defenceless, and which
could only be compared to that which sent victims of old through the fire to Moloch.

The courageous interposition of those philosophers who opposed science and experience to the
prejudices of superstition and ignorance, and in doing so incurred much misrepresentation,
and perhaps no little ill-will, in the cause of truth and humanity, claim for them some distinction
in a work on Demonology. The pursuers of exact science to its coy retreats, were sure to be
the first to discover that the most remarkable phenomena in Nature are regulated by certain
fixed laws, and cannot rationally be referred to supernatural agency, the sufficing cause to
which superstition attributes all that is beyond her own narrow power of explanation. Each
advance in natural knowledge teaches us that it is the pleasure of the Creator to govern the
world by the laws which he has imposed, and which are not in our times interrupted or suspended.

The learned Wier, or Wierus, was a man of great research in physical science, and studied under
the celebrated Cornelius Agrippa, against whom the charge of sorcery was repeatedly alleged
by Paulus Jovius and other authors, while he suffered, on the other hand, from the persecution
of the inquisitors of the Church, whose accusation against this celebrated man was, that he
denied the existence of spirits, a charge very inconsistent with that of sorcery, which consists
in corresponding with them. Wierus, after taking his degree as a doctor of medicine, became
physician to the Duke of Cleves, at whose court he practised for thirty years with the highest
reputation. This learned man, disregarding the scandal which, by so doing, he was likely to
bring upon himself, was one of the first who attacked the vulgar belief, and boldly assailed,
both by serious arguments and by ridicule, the vulgar credulity on the subject of wizards and
witches.

Gabriel Naudé, or Naudæus, as he termed himself, was a perfect scholar and man of letters,
busied during his whole life with assembling books together, and enjoying the office of librarian
to several persons of high rank, amongst others, to Queen Christina of Sweden. He was, besides,
a beneficed clergyman, leading a most unblemished life, and so temperate as never to taste
any liquor stronger than water; yet did he not escape the scandal which is usually flung by
their prejudiced contemporaries upon those disputants whom it is found more easy to defame
than to answer. He wrote an interesting work, entitled "Apologie pour les Grands Homines Accusés
de Magie;" and as he exhibited a good deal of vivacity of talent, and an earnestness in pleading
his cause, which did not always spare some of the superstitions of Rome herself, he was charged
by his contemporaries as guilty of heresy and scepticism, when justice could only accuse him
of an incautious eagerness to make good his argument.

Among persons who, upon this subject, purged their eyes with rue and euphrasie, besides the
Rev. Dr. Harsnet and many others (who wrote rather on special cases of Demonology than on the
general question), Reginald Scot ought to be distinguished. Webster assures us that he was
a "person of competent learning, pious, and of a good family." He seems to have been a zealous
Protestant, and much of his book, as well as that of Harsnet, is designed to throw upon the
Papists in particular those tricks in which, by confederacy and imposture, the popular ideas
concerning witchcraft, possession, and other supernatural fancies, were maintained and kept
in exercise; but he also writes on the general question with some force and talent, considering
that his subject is incapable of being reduced into a regular form, and is of a nature particularly
seductive to an excursive talent. He appears to have studied legerdemain for the purpose of
showing how much that is apparently unaccountable can nevertheless be performed without the
intervention of supernatural assistance, even when it is impossible to persuade the vulgar
that the devil has not been consulted on the occasion. Scot also had intercourse with some
of the celebrated fortune-tellers, or Philomaths, of the time; one of whom he brings forward
to declare the vanity of the science which he himself had once professed.

To defend the popular belief of witchcraft there arose a number of advocates, of whom Bodin
and some others neither wanted knowledge nor powers of reasoning. They pressed the incredulous
party with the charge that they denied the existence of a crime against which the law had denounced
a capital punishment. As that law was understood to emanate from James himself, who was reigning
monarch during the hottest part of the controversy, the English authors who defended the opposite
side were obliged to entrench themselves under an evasion, to avoid maintaining an argument
unpalatable to a degree to those in power, and which might perchance have proved unsafe to
those who used it. With a certain degree of sophistry they answered that they did not doubt
the possibility of witches, but only demurred to what is their nature, and how they came to
be such--according to the scholastic jargon, that the question in respect to witches was not
de existentia, but only de modo existendi.

By resorting to so subtle an argument those who impugned the popular belief were obliged, with
some inconsistency, to grant that witchcraft had existed, and might exist, only insisting that
it was a species of witchcraft consisting of they knew not what, but certainly of something
different from that which legislators, judges, and juries had hitherto considered the statute
as designed to repress.

In the meantime (the rather that the debate was on a subject particularly difficult of comprehension)
the debating parties grew warm, and began to call names. Bodin, a lively Frenchman of an irritable
habit, explained the zeal of Wierus to protect the tribe of sorcerers from punishment, by stating
that he himself was a conjurer and the scholar of Cornelius Agrippa, and might therefore well
desire to save the lives of those accused of the same league with Satan. Hence they threw on
their antagonists the offensive names of witch-patrons and witch-advocates, as if it were impossible
for any to hold the opinion of Naudæus, Wierus, Scot, &c., without patronizing the devil and
the witches against their brethren of mortality. Assailed by such heavy charges, the philosophers
themselves lost patience, and retorted abuse in their turn, calling Bodin, Delrio, and others
who used their arguments, witch-advocates, and the like, as the affirming and defending the
existence of the crime seemed to increase the number of witches, and assuredly augmented the
list of executions. But for a certain time the preponderance of the argument lay on the side
of the Demonologists, and we may briefly observe the causes which gave their opinions, for
a period, greater influence than their opponents on the public mind.

It is first to be observed that Wierus, for what reason cannot well be conjectured, except
to show the extent of his cabalistical knowledge, had introduced into his work against witchcraft
the whole Stenographia of Trithemius, which he had copied from the original in the library
of Cornelius Agrippa; and which, suspicious from the place where he found it, and from the
long catalogue of fiends which it contained, with the charms for raising and for binding them
to the service of mortals, was considered by Bodin as containing proof that Wierus himself
was a sorcerer; not one of the wisest, certainly, since he thus unnecessarily placed at the
disposal of any who might buy the book the whole secrets which formed his stock-in-trade.

Secondly, we may notice that, from the state of physical science at the period when Van Helmont,
Paracelsus, and others began to penetrate into its recesses, it was an unknown, obscure, and
ill-defined region, and did not permit those who laboured in it to give that precise and accurate
account of their discoveries which the progress of reasoning experimentally and from analysis
has enabled the late discoverers to do with success. Natural magic--a phrase used to express
those phenomena which could be produced by a knowledge of the properties of matter--had so
much in it that was apparently uncombined and uncertain, that the art of chemistry was accounted
mystical, and an opinion prevailed that the results now known to be the consequence of laws
of matter, could not be traced through their various combinations even by those who knew the
effects themselves. Physical science, in a word, was cumbered by a number of fanciful and incorrect
opinions, chiefly of a mystical character. If, for instance, it was observed that a flag and
a fern never grew near each other, the circumstance was imputed to some antipathy between these
vegetables; nor was it for some time resolved by the natural rule, that the flag has its nourishment
in marshy ground, whereas the fern loves a deep dryish soil. The attributes of the divining-rod
were fully credited; the discovery of the philosopher's stone was daily hoped for; and electricity,
magnetism, and other remarkable and misconceived phenomena were appealed to as proof of the
reasonableness of their expectations. Until such phenomena were traced to their sources, imaginary
and often mystical causes were assigned to them, for the same reason that, in the wilds of
a partially discovered country, according to the satirist,

"Geographers on pathless downs
 Place elephants for want of towns."

This substitution of mystical fancies for experimental reasoning gave, in the sixteenth and
seventeenth centuries, a doubtful and twilight appearance to the various branches of physical
philosophy. The learned and sensible Dr. Webster, for instance, writing in detection of supposed
witchcraft, assumes, as a string of undeniable facts, opinions which our more experienced age
would reject as frivolous fancies; "for example, the effects of healing by the weapon-salve,
the sympathetic powder, the curing of various diseases by apprehensions, amulets, or by transplantation."
All of which undoubted wonders he accuses the age of desiring to throw on the devil's back--an
unnecessary load certainly, since such things do not exist, and it is therefore in vain to
seek to account for them. It followed that, while the opposers of the ordinary theory might
have struck the deepest blows at the witch hypothesis by an appeal to common sense, they were
themselves hampered by articles of philosophical belief which they must have been sensible
contained nearly as deep draughts upon human credulity as were made by the Demonologists, against
whose doctrine they protested. This error had a doubly bad effect, both as degrading the immediate
department in which it occurred, and as affording a protection for falsehood in other branches
of science. The champions who, in their own province, were obliged by the imperfect knowledge
of the times to admit much that was mystical and inexplicable--those who opined, with Bacon,
that warts could be cured by sympathy--who thought, with Napier, that hidden treasures could
be discovered by the mathematics--who salved the weapon instead of the wound, and detected
murders as well as springs of water by the divining-rod, could not consistently use, to confute
the believers in witches, an argument turning on the impossible or the incredible.

Such were the obstacles arising from the vanity of philosophers and the imperfection of their
science, which suspended the strength of their appeal to reason and common sense against the
condemning of wretches to a cruel death on account of crimes which the nature of things rendered
in modern times totally impossible. We cannot doubt that they suffered considerably in the
contest, which was carried on with much anger and malevolence; but the good seed which they
had sown remained uncorrupted in the soil, to bear fruit so soon as the circumstances should
be altered which at first impeded its growth. In the next letter I shall take a view of the
causes which helped to remove these impediments, in addition, it must always be remembered,
to the general increase of knowledge and improvement of experimental philosophy.

LETTER VII.

       Penal Laws unpopular when rigidly exercised--Prosecution of Witches
    placed in the hand of Special Commissioners, ad
    inquirendum--Prosecution for Witchcraft not frequent in the Elder
    Period of the Roman Empire--Nor in the Middle Ages--Some Cases took
    place, however--The Maid of Orleans--The Duchess of
    Gloucester--Richard the Third's Charge against the Relations of the
    Queen Dowager--But Prosecutions against Sorcerers became more common
    in the end of the Fourteenth Century--Usually united with the Charge
    of Heresy--Monstrelet's Account of the Persecution against the
    Waldenses, under pretext of Witchcraft--Florimond's Testimony
    concerning the Increase of Witches in his own Time--Bull of Pope
    Innocent VIII.--Various Prosecutions in Foreign Countries under this
    severe Law--Prosecutions in Labourt by the Inquisitor De Lancre and
    his Colleague--Lycanthropy--Witches in Spain--In Sweden--and
    particularly those Apprehended at Mohra.

Penal laws, like those of the Middle Ages, denounced against witchcraft, may be at first hailed
with unanimous acquiescence and approbation, but are uniformly found to disgust and offend
at least the more sensible part of the public when the punishments become frequent and are
relentlessly inflicted. Those against treason are no exception. Each reflecting government
will do well to shorten that melancholy reign of terror which perhaps must necessarily follow
on the discovery of a plot or the defeat of an insurrection. They ought not, either in humanity
or policy, to wait till the voice of the nation calls to them, as Mecænas to Augustus, "Surge
tandem carnifex!"

It is accordingly remarkable, in different countries, how often at some particular period of
their history there occurred an epidemic of terror of witches, which, as fear is always cruel
and credulous, glutted the public with seas of innocent blood; and how uniformly men loathed
the gore after having swallowed it, and by a reaction natural to the human mind desired, in
prudence, to take away or restrict those laws which had been the source of carnage, in order
that their posterity might neither have the will nor the means to enter into similar excesses.

A short review of foreign countries, before we come to notice the British Islands and their
Colonies, will prove the truth of this statement. In Catholic countries on the Continent, the
various kingdoms adopted readily that part of the civil law, already mentioned, which denounces
sorcerers and witches as rebels to God, and authors of sedition in the empire. But being considered
as obnoxious equally to the canon and civil law, Commissions of Inquisition were especially
empowered to weed out of the land the witches and those who had intercourse with familiar spirits,
or in any other respect fell under the ban of the Church, as well as the heretics who promulgated
or adhered to false doctrine. Special warrants were thus granted from time to time in behalf
of such inquisitors, authorizing them to visit those provinces of Germany, France, or Italy
where any report concerning witches or sorcery had alarmed the public mind; and those Commissioners,
proud of the trust reposed in them, thought it becoming to use the utmost exertions on their
part, that the subtlety of the examinations, and the severity of the tortures they inflicted,
might wring the truth out of all suspected persons, until they rendered the province in which
they exercised their jurisdiction a desert from which the inhabitants fled. It would be impossible
to give credit to the extent of this delusion, had not some of the inquisitors themselves been
reporters of their own judicial exploits: the same hand which subscribed the sentence has recorded
the execution.

In the earlier period of the Church of Rome witchcraft is frequently alluded to, and a capital
punishment assigned to those who were supposed to have accomplished by sorcery the death of
others, or to have attempted, by false prophecies or otherwise, under pretext of consulting
with the spiritual world, to make innovation in the state. But no general denunciation against
witchcraft itself, as a league with the Enemy of Man, or desertion of the Deity, and a crime
sui generis, appears to have been so acted upon, until the later period of the sixteenth century,
when the Papal system had attained its highest pitch of power and of corruption. The influence
of the Churchmen was in early times secure, and they rather endeavoured, by the fabrication
of false miracles, to prolong the blind veneration of the people, than to vex others and weary
themselves by secret investigations into dubious and mystical trespasses, in which probably
the higher and better instructed members of the clerical order put as little faith at that
time as they do now. Did there remain a mineral fountain, respected for the cures which it
had wrought, a huge oak-tree, or venerated mount, which beauty of situation had recommended
to traditional respect, the fathers of the Roman Church were in policy reluctant to abandon
such impressive spots, or to represent them as exclusively the rendezvous of witches or of
evil spirits. On the contrary, by assigning the virtues of the spring or the beauty of the
tree to the guardianship of some saint, they acquired, as it were, for the defence of their
own doctrine, a frontier fortress which they wrested from the enemy, and which it was at least
needless to dismantle, if it could be conveniently garrisoned and defended. Thus the Church
secured possession of many beautiful pieces of scenery, as Mr. Whitfield is said to have grudged
to the devil the monopoly of all the fine tunes.

It is true that this policy was not uniformly observed. The story of the celebrated Jeanne
d'Arc, called the Maid of Orleans, preserves the memory of such a custom, which was in that
case turned to the prejudice of the poor woman who observed it.

It is well known that this unfortunate female fell into the hands of the English, after having,
by her courage and enthusiasm manifested on many important occasions, revived the drooping
courage of the French, and inspired them with the hope of once more freeing their country.
The English vulgar regarded her as a sorceress--the French as an inspired heroine; while the
wise on both sides considered her as neither the one nor the other, but a tool used by the
celebrated Dunois to play the part which he assigned her. The Duke of Bedford, when the ill-starred
Jeanne fell into his hands, took away her life in order to stigmatize her memory with sorcery
and to destroy the reputation she had acquired among the French. The mean recurrence to such
a charge against such a person had no more success than it deserved, although Jeanne was condemned
both by the Parliament of Bordeux and the University of Paris. Her indictment accused her of
having frequented an ancient oak-tree, and a fountain arising under it, called the Fated or
Fairy Oak of Bourlemont. Here she was stated to have repaired during the hours of divine service,
dancing, skipping, and making gestures, around the tree and fountain, and hanging on the branches
chaplets and garlands of flowers, gathered for the purpose, reviving, doubtless, the obsolete
idolatry which in ancient times had been rendered on the same spot to the Genius Loci. The
charmed sword and blessed banner, which she had represented as signs of her celestial mission,
were in this hostile charge against her described as enchanted implements, designed by the
fiends and fairies whom she worshipped to accomplish her temporary success. The death of the
innocent, high-minded, and perhaps amiable enthusiast, was not, we are sorry to say, a sacrifice
to a superstitious fear of witchcraft, but a cruel instance of wicked policy mingled with national
jealousy and hatred.

To the same cause, about the same period, we may impute the trial of the Duchess of Gloucester,
wife of the good Duke Humphrey, accused of consulting witches concerning the mode of compassing
the death of her husband's nephew, Henry VI. The Duchess was condemned to do penance, and thereafter
banished to the Isle of Man, while several of her accomplices died in prison or were executed.
But in this instance also the alleged witchcraft was only the ostensible cause of a procedure
which had its real source in the deep hatred between the Duke of Gloucester and Cardinal Beaufort,
his half-brother. The same pretext was used by Richard III. when he brought the charge of sorcery
against the Queen Dowager, Jane Shore, and the queen's kinsmen; and yet again was by that unscrupulous
prince directed against Morton, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury, and other adherents of
the Earl of Richmond. The accusation in both cases was only chosen as a charge easily made
and difficult to be eluded or repelled.

But in the meanwhile, as the accusation of witchcraft thus afforded to tyranny or policy the
ready means of assailing persons whom it might not have been possible to convict of any other
crime, the aspersion itself was gradually considered with increase of terror as spreading wider
and becoming more contagious. So early as the year 1398 the University of Paris, in laying
down rules for the judicial prosecuting of witches, express their regret that the crime was
growing more frequent than in any former age. The more severe enquiries and frequent punishments
by which the judges endeavoured to check the progress of this impious practice seem to have
increased the disease, as indeed it has been always remarked that those morbid affections of
mind which depend on the imagination are sure to become more common in proportion as public
attention is fastened on stories connected with their display.

In the same century schisms arising from different causes greatly alarmed the Church of Rome.
The universal spirit of enquiry which was now afloat, taking a different direction in different
countries, had in almost all of them stirred up a sceptical dissatisfaction with the dogmas
of the Church--such views being rendered more credible to the poorer classes through the corruption
of manners among the clergy, too many of whom wealth and ease had caused to neglect that course
of morality which best recommends religious doctrine. In almost every nation in Europe there
lurked in the crowded cities, or the wild solitude of the country, sects who agreed chiefly
in their animosity to the supremacy of Rome and their desire to cast off her domination. The
Waldenses and Albigenses were parties existing in great numbers through the south of France.
The Romanists became extremely desirous to combine the doctrine of the heretics with witchcraft,
which, according to their account, abounded especially where the Protestants were most numerous;
and, the bitterness increasing, they scrupled not to throw the charge of sorcery, as a matter
of course, upon those who dissented from the Catholic standard of faith. The Jesuit Delrio
alleges several reasons for the affinity which he considers as existing between the Protestant
and the sorcerer; he accuses the former of embracing the opinion of Wierus and other defenders
of the devil (as he calls all who oppose his own opinions concerning witchcraft), thus fortifying
the kingdom of Satan against that of the Church.[47]

[Footnote 47: Delrio, "De Magia." See the Preface.]

A remarkable passage in Monstrelet puts in a clear view the point aimed at by the Catholics
in thus confusing and blending the doctrines of heresy and the practice of witchcraft, and
how a meeting of inoffensive Protestants could be cunningly identified with a Sabbath of hags
and fiends.

"In this year (1459), in the town of Arras and county of Artois, arose, through a terrible
and melancholy chance, an opinion called, I know not why, the Religion of Vaudoisie. This sect
consisted, it is said, of certain persons, both men and women, who, under cloud of night, by
the power of the devil, repaired to some solitary spot, amid woods and deserts, where the devil
appeared before them in a human form--save that his visage is never perfectly visible to them--read
to the assembly a book of his ordinances, informing them how he would be obeyed; distributed
a very little money and a plentiful meal, which was concluded by a scene of general profligacy;
after which each one of the party was conveyed home to her or his own habitation.

"On accusations of access to such acts of madness," continues Monstrelet, "several creditable
persons of the town of Arras were seized and imprisoned along with some foolish women and persons
of little consequence. These were so horribly tortured that some of them admitted the truth
of the whole accusations, and said, besides, that they had seen and recognised in their nocturnal
assembly many persons of rank, prelates, seigneurs, and governors of bailliages and cities,
being such names as the examinators had suggested to the persons examined, while they constrained
them by torture to impeach the persons to whom they belonged. Several of those who had been
thus informed against were arrested, thrown into prison, and tortured for so long a time that
they also were obliged to confess what was charged against them. After this those of mean condition
were executed and inhumanly burnt, while the richer and more powerful of the accused ransomed
themselves by sums of money, to avoid the punishment and the shame attending it. Many even
of those also confessed being persuaded to take that course by the interrogators, who promised
them indemnity for life and fortune. Some there were, of a truth, who suffered with marvellous
patience and constancy the torments inflicted on them, and would confess nothing imputed to
their charge; but they, too, had to give large sums to the judges, who exacted that such of
them as, notwithstanding their mishandling, were still able to move, should banish themselves
from that part of the country." Monstrelet winds up this shocking narrative by informing us
"that it ought not to be concealed that the whole accusation was a stratagem of wicked men
for their own covetous purposes, and in order, by these false accusations and forced confessions,
to destroy the life, fame, and fortune of wealthy persons."

Delrio himself confesses that Franciscus Balduinus gives an account of the pretended punishment,
but real persecution, of these Waldenses, in similar terms with Monstrelet, whose suspicions
are distinctly spoken out, and adds that the Parliament of Paris, having heard the affair by
appeal, had declared the sentence illegal and the judges iniquitous, by an arrét dated 20th
May, 1491. The Jesuit Delrio quotes the passage, but adheres with lingering reluctance to the
truth of the accusation. "The Waldenses (of whom the Albigenses are a species) were," he says,
"never free from the most wretched excess of fascination;" and finally, though he allows the
conduct of the judges to have been most odious, he cannot prevail on himself to acquit the
parties charged by such interested accusers with horrors which should hardly have been found
proved even upon the most distinct evidence. He appeals on this occasion to Florimond's work
on Antichrist. 7, n. 5, quoted by Delrio, "De Magia," p. 820.]

This last statement, by which it appears that the most active and unsparing inquisition was
taking place, corresponds with the historical notices of repeated persecutions upon this dreadful
charge of sorcery. A bull of Pope Innocent VIII. rang the tocsin against this formidable crime,
and set forth in the most dismal colours the guilt, while it stimulated the inquisitors to
the unsparing discharge of their duty in searching out and punishing the guilty.

Dreadful were the consequences of this bull all over the Continent, especially in Italy, Germany,
and France,[49] About 1485 Cumanus burnt as witches forty-one poor women in one year in the
county of Burlia. In the ensuing years he continued the prosecution with such unremitting zeal
that many fled from the country.

[Footnote 49: Dr. Hutchinson quotes "H. Institor," 105, 161.]

Alciatus states that an inquisitor, about the same period, burnt an hundred sorcerers in Piedmont,
and persevered in his inquiries till human patience was exhausted, and the people arose and
drove him out of the country, after which the jurisdiction was deferred to the archbishop.
That prelate consulted Alciatus himself, who had just then obtained his doctor's degree in
civil law, to which he was afterwards an honour. A number of unfortunate wretches were brought
for judgment, fitter, according to the civilian's opinion, for a course of hellebore than for
the stake. Some were accused of having dishonoured the crucifix and denied their salvation;
others of having absconded to keep the Devil's Sabbath, in spite of bolts and bars; others
of having merely joined in the choral dances around the witches' tree of rendezvous. Several
of their husbands and relatives swore that they were in bed and asleep during these pretended
excursions. Alciatus recommended gentle and temperate measures; and the minds of the country
became at length composed.[50]

[Footnote 50: Alciat. "Parerg. Juris," lib. viii. chap. 22.]

In 1488, the country four leagues around Constance was laid waste by lightning and tempest,
and two women being, by fair means or foul, made to confess themselves guilty as the cause
of the devastation, suffered death.

About 1515, 500 persons were executed at Geneva, under the character of "Protestant witches,"
from which we may suppose many suffered for heresy. Forty-eight witches were burnt at Ravensburgh
within four years, as Hutchison reports, on the authority of Mengho, the author of the "Malleus
Malleficarum." In Lorraine the learned inquisitor, Remigius, boasts that he put to death 900
people in fifteen years. As many were banished from that country, so that whole towns were
on the point of becoming desolate. In 1524, 1,000 persons were put to death in one year at
Como, in Italy, and about 100 every year after for several years.[51]

[Footnote 51: Bart. de Spina, de Strigilibus.]

In the beginning of the next century the persecution of witches broke out in France with a
fury which was hardly conceivable, and multitudes were burnt amid that gay and lively people.
Some notion of the extreme prejudice of their judges may be drawn from the words of one of
the inquisitors themselves. Pierre de Lancre, royal councillor in the Parliament of Bourdeaux,
with whom the President Espaignel was joined in a commission to enquire into certain acts of
sorcery, reported to have been committed in Labourt and its neighbourhood, at the foot of the
Pyrenees, about the month of May, 1619. A few extracts from the preface will best evince the
state of mind in which he proceeded to the discharge of his commission.

His story assumes the form of a narrative of a direct war between Satan on the one side and
the Royal Commissioners on the other, "because," says Councillor de Lancre, with self-complaisance,
"nothing is so calculated to strike terror into the fiend and his dominions as a commission
with such plenary powers."

At first, Satan endeavoured to supply his vassals who were brought before the judges with strength
to support the examinations, so that if, by intermission of the torture, the wretches should
fall into a doze, they declared, when they were recalled from it to the question, that the
profound stupor "had something of Paradise in it, being gilded," said the judge, "with the
immediate presence of the devil;" though, in all probability, it rather derived its charms
from the natural comparison between the insensibility of exhaustion and the previous agony
of acute torture. The judges took care that the fiend seldom obtained any advantage in the
matter by refusing their victims, in most cases, any interval of rest or sleep. Satan then
proceeded, in the way of direct defiance, to stop the mouth of the accused openly, and by mere
force, with something like a visible obstruction in their throat. Notwithstanding this, to
put the devil to shame, some of the accused found means, in spite of him, to confess and be
hanged, or rather burnt. The fiend lost much credit by his failure on this occasion. Before
the formidable Commissioners arrived, he had held his cour plénière before the gates of Bourdeaux,
and in the square of the palace of Galienne, whereas he was now insulted publicly by his own
vassals, and in the midst of his festival of the Sabbath the children and relations of the
witches who had suffered not sticking to say to him, "Out upon you! Your promise was that our
mothers who were prisoners should not die; and look how you have kept your word with us! They
have been burnt, and are a heap of ashes." To appease this mutiny Satan had two evasions. He
produced illusory fires, and encouraged the mutinous to walk through them, assuring them that
the judicial pile was as frigid and inoffensive as those which he exhibited to them. Again,
taking his refuge in lies, of which he is well known to be the father, he stoutly affirmed
that their parents, who seemed to have suffered, were safe in a foreign country, and that if
their children would call on them they would receive an answer. They made the invocation accordingly,
and Satan answered each of them in a tone which resembled the voice of the lamented parent
almost as successfully as Monsieur Alexandra could have done.

Proceeding to a yet more close attack, the Commissioners, on the eve of one of the Fiend's
Sabbaths, placed the gibbet on which they executed their victims just on the spot where Satan's
gilded chair was usually stationed. The devil was much offended at such an affront, and yet
had so little power in the matter that he could only express his resentment by threats that
he would hang Messieurs D'Amon and D'Urtubbe, gentlemen who had solicited and promoted the
issuing of the Commission, and would also burn the Commissioners themselves in their own fire.
We regret to say that Satan was unable to execute either of these laudable resolutions. Ashamed
of his excuses, he abandoned for three or four sittings his attendance on the Sabbaths, sending
as his representative an imp of subordinate account, and in whom no one reposed confidence.
When he took courage again to face his parliament, the Arch-fiend covered his defection by
assuring them that he had been engaged in a lawsuit with the Deity, which he had gained with
costs, and that six score of infant children were to be delivered up to him in name of damages,
and the witches were directed to procure such victims accordingly. After this grand fiction
he confined himself to the petty vengeance of impeding the access of confessors to the condemned,
which was the more easy as few of them could speak the Basque language. I have no time to detail
the ingenious method by which the learned Councillor de Lancre explains why the district of
Labourt should be particularly exposed to the pest of sorcery. The chief reason seems to be
that it is a mountainous, a sterile, and a border country, where the men are all fishers and
the women smoke tobacco and wear short petticoats.

To a person who, in this presumptuous, trifling, and conceited spirit, has composed a quarto
volume full of the greatest absurdities and grossest obscenities ever impressed on paper, it
was the pleasure of the most Christian Monarch to consign the most absolute power which could
be exercised on these poor people; and he might with as much prudence have turned a ravenous
wolf upon an undefended flock, of whom the animal was the natural enemy, as they were his natural
prey. The priest, as well as the ignorant peasant, fell under the suspicion of this fell Commission;
and De Lancre writes, with much complacency, that the accused were brought to trial to the
number of forty in one day--with what chance of escape, when the judges were blinded with prejudice,
and could only hear the evidence and the defence through the medium of an interpreter, the
understanding of the reader may easily anticipate.

Among other gross transgressions of the most ordinary rules, it may be remarked that the accused,
in what their judges called confessions, contradicted each other at every turn respecting the
description of the Domdaniel in which they pretended to have been assembled, and the fiend
who presided there. All spoke to a sort of gilded throne; but some saw a hideous wild he-goat
seated there; some a man disfigured and twisted, as suffering torture; some, with better taste,
beheld a huge indistinct form, resembling one of those mutilated trunks of trees found in ancient
forests. But De Lancre was no "Daniel come to judgment," and the discrepancy of evidence, which
saved the life and fame of Susannah, made no impression in favour of the sorcerers of Labourt.

Instances occur in De Lancre's book of the trial and condemnation of persons accused of the
crime of lycanthropy, a superstition which was chiefly current in France, but was known in
other countries, and is the subject of great debate between Wier, Naudé, Scot, on the one hand,
and their demonological adversaries on the other. The idea, said the one party, was that a
human being had the power, by sorcery, of transforming himself into the shape of a wolf, and
in that capacity, being seized with a species of fury, he rushed out and made havoc among the
flocks, slaying and wasting, like the animal whom he represented, far more than he could devour.
The more incredulous reasoners would not allow of a real transformation, whether with or without
the enchanted hide of a wolf, which in some cases was supposed to aid the metamorphosis, and
contended that lycanthropy only subsisted as a woful species of disease, a melancholy state
of mind, broken with occasional fits of insanity, in which the patient imagined that he committed
the ravages of which he was accused. Such a person, a mere youth, was tried at Besançon, who
gave himself out for a servant, or yeoman pricker, of the Lord of the Forest--so he called
his superior--who was judged to be the devil. He was, by his master's power, transformed into
the likeness and performed the usual functions of a wolf, and was attended in his course by
one larger, which he supposed the Lord of the Forest himself. These wolves, he said, ravaged
the flocks, and throttled the dogs which stood in their defence. If either had not seen the
other, he howled, after the manner of the animal, to call his comrade to his share of the prey;
if he did not come upon this signal, he proceeded to bury it the best way he could.

Such was the general persecution under Messieurs Espiagnel and De Lancre. Many similar scenes
occurred in France, till the edict of Louis XIV. discharging all future prosecutions for witchcraft,
after which the crime itself was heard of no more.[52]

[Footnote 52: The reader may sup full on such wild horrors in the causes célèbres.]

While the spirit of superstition was working such horrors in France, it was not, we may believe,
more idle in other countries of Europe. In Spain, particularly, long the residence of the Moors,
a people putting deep faith in all the day-dreams of witchcraft, good and evil genii, spells
and talismans, the ardent and devotional temper of the old Christians dictated a severe research
after sorcerers as well as heretics, and relapsed Jews or Mahommedans. In former times, during
the subsistence of the Moorish kingdoms in Spain, a school was supposed to be kept open in
Toboso for the study, it is said, of magic, but more likely of chemistry, algebra, and other
sciences, which, altogether mistaken by the ignorant and vulgar, and imperfectly understood
even by those who studied them, were supposed to be allied to necromancy, or at least to natural
magic. It was, of course, the business of the Inquisition to purify whatever such pursuits
had left of suspicious Catholicism, and their labours cost as much blood on accusations of
witchcraft and magic as for heresy and relapse.

Even the colder nations of Europe were subject to the same epidemic terror for witchcraft,
and a specimen of it was exhibited in the sober and rational country of Sweden about the middle
of last century, an account of which, being translated into English by a respectable clergyman,
Doctor Horneck, excited general surprise how a whole people could be imposed upon to the degree
of shedding much blood, and committing great cruelty and injustice, on account of the idle
falsehoods propagated by a crew of lying children, who in this case were both actors and witnesses.

The melancholy truth that "the human heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked,"
is by nothing proved so strongly as by the imperfect sense displayed by children of the sanctity
of moral truth. Both the gentlemen and the mass of the people, as they advance in years, learn
to despise and avoid falsehood; the former out of pride, and from a remaining feeling, derived
from the days of chivalry, that the character of a liar is a deadly stain on their honour;
the other, from some general reflection upon the necessity of preserving a character for integrity
in the course of life, and a sense of the truth of the common adage, that "honesty is the best
policy." But these are acquired habits of thinking. The child has no natural love of truth,
as is experienced by all who have the least acquaintance with early youth. If they are charged
with a fault while they can hardly speak, the first words they stammer forth are a falsehood
to excuse it. Nor is this all: the temptation of attracting attention, the pleasure of enjoying
importance, the desire to escape from an unpleasing task, or accomplish a holiday, will at
any time overcome the sentiment of truth, so weak is it within them. Hence thieves and housebreakers,
from a surprisingly early period, find means of rendering children useful in their mystery;
nor are such acolytes found to evade justice with less dexterity than the more advanced rogues.
Where a number of them are concerned in the same mischief, there is something resembling virtue
in the fidelity with which the common secret is preserved. Children, under the usual age of
their being admitted to give evidence, were necessarily often examined in witch trials; and
it is terrible to see how often the little impostors, from spite or in mere gaiety of spirit,
have by their art and perseverance made shipwreck of men's lives. But it would be hard to discover
a case which, supported exclusively by the evidence of children (the confessions under torture
excepted), and obviously existing only in the young witnesses' own imagination, has been attended
with such serious consequences, or given cause to so extensive and fatal a delusion, as that
which occurred in Sweden.

The scene was the Swedish village of Mohra, in the province of Elfland, which district had
probably its name from some remnant of ancient superstition. The delusion had come to a great
height ere it reached the ears of government, when, as was the general procedure, Royal Commissioners
were sent down, men well fitted for the duty entrusted to them; that is, with ears open to
receive the incredibilities with which they were to be crammed, and hearts hardened against
every degree of compassion to the accused. The complaints of the common people, backed by some
persons of better condition, were that a number of persons, renowned as witches, had drawn
several hundred children of all classes under the devil's authority. They demanded, therefore,
the punishment of these agents of hell, reminding the judges that the province had been clear
of witches since the burning of some on a former occasion. The accused were numerous, so many
as threescore and ten witches and sorcerers being seized in the village of Mohra; three-and-twenty
confessed their crimes, and were sent to Faluna, where most of them were executed. Fifteen
of the children were also led to death. Six-and-thirty of those who were young were forced
to run the gauntlet, as it is called, and were, besides, lashed weekly at the church doors
for a whole year. Twenty of the youngest were condemned to the same discipline for three days only.

The process seems to have consisted in confronting the children with the witches, and hearing
the extraordinary story which the former insisted upon maintaining. The children, to the number
of three hundred, were found more or less perfect in a tale as full of impossible absurdities
as ever was told around a nursery fire. Their confession ran thus:--

They were taught by the witches to go to a cross way, and with certain ceremonies to invoke
the devil by the name of Antecessor, begging him to carry them off to Blockula, meaning, perhaps,
the Brockenberg, in the Hartz forest, a mountain infamous for being the common scene of witches'
meetings, and to which Goethe represents the spirit Mephistopheles as conducting his pupil
Faustus. The devil courteously appeared at the call of the children in various forms, but chiefly
as a mad Merry-Andrew, with a grey coat, red and blue stockings, a red beard, a high-crowned
hat, with linen of various colours wrapt round it, and garters of peculiar length. He set each
child on some beast of his providing, and anointed them with a certain unguent composed of
the scrapings of altars and the filings of church clocks. There is here a discrepancy of evidence
which in another court would have cast the whole. Most of the children considered their journey
to be corporeal and actual. Some supposed, however, that their strength or spirit only travelled
with the fiend, and that their body remained behind. Very few adopted this last hypothesis,
though the parents unanimously bore witness that the bodies of the children remained in bed,
and could not be awakened out of a deep sleep, though they shook them for the purpose of awakening
them. So strong was, nevertheless, the belief of nurses and mothers in their actual transportation,
that a sensible clergyman, mentioned in the preface, who had resolved he would watch his son
the whole night and see what hag or fiend would take him from his arms, had the utmost difficulty,
notwithstanding, in convincing his mother that the child had not been transported to Blockula
during the very night he held him in his embrace.

The learned translator candidly allows, "out of so great a multitude as were accused, condemned,
and executed, there might be some who suffered unjustly, and owed their death more to the malice
of their enemies than to their skill in the black art, I will readily admit. Nor will I deny,"
he continues, "but that when the news of these transactions and accounts, how the children
bewitched fel into fits and strange unusual postures, spread abroad in the kingdom, some fearful
and credulous people, if they saw their children any way disordered, might think they were
bewitched or ready to be carried away by imps."[53] The learned gentleman here stops short
in a train of reasoning, which, followed out, would have deprived the world of the benefit
of his translation. For if it was possible that some of these unfortunate persons fell a sacrifice
to the malice of their neighbours or the prejudices of witnesses, as he seems ready to grant,
is it not more reasonable to believe that the whole of the accused were convicted on similar
grounds, than to allow, as truth, the slightest part of the gross and vulgar impossibilities
upon which alone their execution can be justified?

[Footnote 53: Translator's preface to Horneck's "Account of what happened in the Kingdom of
Sweden." See appendix to Glanville's work.]

The Blockula, which was the object of their journey, was a house having a fine gate painted
with divers colours, with a paddock, in which they turned the beasts to graze which had brought
them to such scenes of revelry. If human beings had been employed they were left slumbering
against the wall of the house. The plan of the devil's palace consisted of one large banqueting
apartment and several withdrawing-rooms. Their food was homely enough, being broth made of
coleworts and bacon, with bread and butter, and milk and cheese. The same acts of wickedness
and profligacy were committed at Blockula which are usually supposed to take place upon the
devil's Sabbath elsewhere; but there was this particular, that the witches had sons and daughters
by the fiends, who were married together, and produced an offspring of toads and serpents.

These confessions being delivered before the accused witches, they at first stoutly denied
them. At last some of them burst into tears, and acquiesced in the horrors imputed to them.
They said the practice of carrying off children had been enlarged very lately (which shows
the whole rumours to have arisen recently); and the despairing wretches confirmed what the
children said, with many other extravagant circumstances, as the mode of elongating a goat's
back by means of a spit, on which we care not to be particular. It is worth mentioning that
the devil, desirous of enjoying his own reputation among his subjects, pretended at one time
to be dead, and was much lamented at Blockula--but he soon revived again.

Some attempts these witches had made to harm individuals on middle earth, but with little success.
One old sorceress, indeed, attempted to strike a nail, given her by the devil for that purpose,
into the head of the minister of Elfland; but as the skull was of unusual solidity, the reverend
gentleman only felt a headache from her efforts. They could not be persuaded to exhibit any
of their tricks before the Commissioners, excusing themselves by alleging that their witchcraft
had left them, and that the devil had amused them with the vision of a burning pit, having
a hand thrust out of it.

The total number who lost their lives on this singular occasion was fourscore and four persons,
including fifteen children; and at this expense of blood was extinguished a flame that arose
as suddenly, burned as fiercely, and decayed as rapidly, as any portent of the kind within
the annals of superstition. The Commissioners returned to Court with the high approbation of
all concerned; prayers were ordered through the churches weekly, that Heaven would be pleased
to restrain the powers of the devil, and deliver the poor creatures who hitherto had groaned
under it, as well as the innocent children, who were carried off by hundreds at once.

If we could ever learn the true explanation of this story, we should probably find that the
cry was led by some clever mischievous boy, who wished to apologise to his parents for lying
an hour longer in the morning by alleging he had been at Blockula on the preceding night; and
that the desire to be as much distinguished as their comrade had stimulated the bolder and
more acute of his companions to the like falsehoods; whilst those of weaker minds assented,
either from fear of punishment or the force of dreaming over at night the horrors which were
dinned into their ears all day. Those who were ingenuous, as it was termed, in their confessions,
received praise and encouragement; and those who denied or were silent, and, as it was considered,
impenitent, were sure to bear the harder share of the punishment which was addressed to all.
It is worth while also to observe, that the smarter children began to improve their evidence
and add touches to the general picture of Blockula. "Some of the children talked much of a
white angel, which used to forbid them what the devil bid them do, and told them that these
doings should not last long. And (they added) this better being would place himself sometimes
at the door betwixt the witches and the children, and when they came to Blockula he pulled
the children back, but the witches went in."

This additional evidence speaks for itself, and shows the whole tale to be the fiction of the
children's imagination, which some of them wished to improve upon.

We must now turn our eyes to Britain, in which our knowledge as to such events is necessarily
more extensive, and where it is in a high degree more interesting to our present purpose.

LETTER VIII.

    The Effects of the Witch Superstition are to be traced in the Laws
    of a Kingdom--Usually punished in England as a Crime connected with
    Politics--Attempt at Murder for Witchcraft not in itself
    Capital--Trials of Persons of Rank for Witchcraft, connected with
    State Crimes--Statutes of Henry VIII--How Witchcraft was regarded by
    the three Leading Sects of Religion in the Sixteenth Century; first,
    by the Catholics; second, by the Calvinists; third, by the Church of
    England and Lutherans--Impostures unwarily countenanced by
    individual Catholic Priests, and also by some Puritanic
    Clergymen--Statute of 1562, and some cases upon it--Case of
    Dugdale--Case of the Witches of Warbois, and the execution of the
    Family of Samuel--That of Jane Wenham, in which some Church of
    England Clergymen insisted on the Prosecution--Hutchison's Rebuke to
    them--James the First's Opinion of Witchcraft--His celebrated
    Statute, 1 Jac. I.--Canon passed by the Convocation against
    Possession--Case of Mr. Fairfax's Children--Lancashire Witches in
    1613--Another Discovery in 1634--Webster's Account of the manner in
    which the Imposture was managed--Superiority of the Calvinists is
    followed by a severe Prosecution of Witches--Executions in Suffolk,
    &c. to a dreadful extent--Hopkins, the pretended Witchfinder, the
    cause of these Cruelties--His Brutal Practices--His
    Letter--Execution of Mr. Lowis--Hopkins Punished--Restoration of
    Charles--Trial of Coxe--Of Dunny and Callendar before Lord
    Hales--Royal Society and Progress of Knowledge--Somersetshire
    Witches--Opinions of the Populace--A Woman Swum for Witchcraft at
    Oakly--- Murder at Tring--Act against Witchcraft abolished, and the
    belief in the Crime becomes forgotten--Witch Trials in New
    England--Dame Glover's Trial--Affliction of the Parvises, and
    frightful Increase of the Prosecutions--Suddenly put a stop to--The
    Penitence of those concerned in them.

Our account of Demonology in England must naturally, as in every other country, depend chiefly
on the instances which history contains of the laws and prosecutions against witchcraft. Other
superstitions arose and decayed, were dreaded or despised, without greater embarrassment, in
the provinces in which they have a temporary currency, than that cowards and children go out
more seldom at night, while the reports of ghosts and fairies are peculiarly current. But when
the alarm of witchcraft arises, Superstition dips her hand in the blood of the persons accused,
and records in the annals of jurisprudence their trials and the causes alleged in vindication
of their execution. Respecting other fantastic allegations, the proof is necessarily transient
and doubtful, depending upon the inaccurate testimony of vague report and of doting tradition.
But in cases of witchcraft we have before us the recorded evidence upon which judge and jury
acted, and can form an opinion with some degree of certainty of the grounds, real or fanciful,
on which they acquitted or condemned. It is, therefore, in tracing, this part of Demonology,
with its accompanying circumstances, that we have the best chance of obtaining an accurate
view of our subject.

The existence of witchcraft was, no doubt, received and credited in England, as in the countries
on the Continent, and originally punished accordingly. But after the fourteenth century the
practices which fell under such a description were thought unworthy of any peculiar animadversion,
unless they were connected with something which would have been of itself a capital crime,
by whatever means it had been either essayed or accomplished. Thus the supposed paction between
a witch and the demon was perhaps deemed in itself to have terrors enough to prevent its becoming
an ordinary crime, and was not, therefore, visited with any statutory penalty. But to attempt
or execute bodily harm to others through means of evil spirits, or, in a word, by the black
art, was actionable at common law as much as if the party accused had done the same harm with
an arrow or pistol-shot. The destruction or abstraction of goods by the like instruments, supposing
the charge proved, would, in like manner, be punishable. A fortiori, the consulting soothsayers,
familiar spirits, or the like, and the obtaining and circulating pretended prophecies to the
unsettlement of the State and the endangering of the King's title, is yet a higher degree of
guilt. And it may be remarked that the inquiry into the date of the King's life bears a close
affinity with the desiring or compassing the death of the Sovereign, which is the essence of
high treason. Upon such charges repeated trials took place in the courts of the English, and
condemnations were pronounced, with sufficient justice, no doubt, where the connexion between
the resort to sorcerers and the design to perpetrate a felony could be clearly proved. We would
not, indeed, be disposed to go the length of so high an authority as Selden, who pronounces
(in his "Table-Talk") that if a man heartily believed that he could take the life of another
by waving his hat three times and crying Buzz! and should, under this fixed opinion, wave his
hat and cry Buzz! accordingly, he ought to be executed as a murderer. But a false prophecy
of the King's death is not to be dealt with exactly on the usual principle; because, however
idle in itself, the promulgation of such a prediction has, in times such as we are speaking
of, a strong tendency to work its completion.

Many persons, and some of great celebrity, suffered for the charge of trafficking with witches,
to the prejudice of those in authority. We have already mentioned the instance of the Duchess
of Gloucester, in Henry the Sixth's reign, and that of the Queen Dowager's kinsmen, in the
Protectorate of Richard, afterwards the Third. In 1521, the Duke of Buckingham was beheaded,
owing much to his having listened to the predictions of one Friar Hopkins. In the same reign,
the Maid of Kent, who had been esteemed a prophetess, was put to death as a cheat. She suffered
with seven persons who had managed her fits for the support of the Catholic religion, and confessed
her fraud upon the scaffold. About seven years after this, Lord Hungerford was beheaded for
consulting certain soothsayers concerning the length of Henry the Eighth's life. But these
cases rather relate to the purpose for which the sorcery was employed, than to the fact of
using it.

Two remarkable statutes were passed in the year 1541; one against false prophecies, the other
against the act of conjuration, witchcraft, and sorcery, and at the same time against breaking
and destroying crosses. The former enactment was certainly made to ease the suspicious and
wayward fears of the tetchy King Henry. The prohibition against witchcraft might be also dictated
by the king's jealous doubts of hazard to the succession. The enactment against breaking crosses
was obviously designed to check the ravages of the Reformers, who in England as well as elsewhere
desired to sweep away Popery with the besom of destruction. This latter statute was abrogated
in the first year of Edward VI., perhaps as placing an undue restraint on the zeal of good
Protestants against idolatry.

At length, in 1562, a formal statute against sorcery, as penal in itself, was actually passed;
but as the penalty was limited to the pillory for the first transgression, the legislature
probably regarded those who might be brought to trial as impostors rather than wizards. There
are instances of individuals tried and convicted as impostors and cheats, and who acknowledged
themselves such before the court and people; but in their articles of visitation the prelates
directed enquiry to be made after those who should use enchantments, witchcraft, sorcery, or
any like craft, invented by the devil.

But it is here proper to make a pause for the purpose of enquiring in what manner the religious
disputes which occupied all Europe about this time influenced the proceedings of the rival
sects in relation to Demonology.

The Papal Church had long reigned by the proud and absolute humour which she had assumed, of
maintaining every doctrine which her rulers had adopted in dark ages; but this pertinacity
at length made her citadel too large to be defended at every point by a garrison whom prudence
would have required to abandon positions which had been taken in times of darkness, and were
unsuited to the warfare of a more enlightened age. The sacred motto of the Vatican was, "Vestigia
nulla retrorsum;" and this rendered it impossible to comply with the more wise and moderate
of her own party, who would otherwise have desired to make liberal concessions to the Protestants,
and thus prevent, in its commencement, a formidable schism in the Christian world.

To the system of Rome the Calvinists offered the most determined opposition, affecting upon
every occasion and on all points to observe an order of church-government, as well as of worship,
expressly in the teeth of its enactments;--in a word, to be a good Protestant, they held it
almost essential to be in all things diametrically opposite to the Catholic form and faith.
As the foundation of this sect was laid in republican states, as its clerical discipline was
settled on a democratic basis, and as the countries which adopted that form of government were
chiefly poor, the preachers having lost the rank and opulence enjoyed by the Roman Church,
were gradually thrown on the support of the people. Insensibly they became occupied with the
ideas and tenets natural to the common people, which, if they have usually the merit of being
honestly conceived and boldly expressed, are not the less often adopted with credulity and
precipitation, and carried into effect with unhesitating harshness and severity.

Betwixt these extremes the Churchmen of England endeavoured to steer a middle course, retaining
a portion of the ritual and forms of Rome, as in themselves admirable, and at any rate too
greatly venerated by the people to be changed merely for opposition's sake. Their comparatively
undilapidated revenue, the connexion of their system with the state, with views of ambition
as ample as the station of a churchman ought to command, rendered them independent of the necessity
of courting their flocks by any means save regular discharge of their duty; and the excellent
provisions made for their education afforded them learning to confute ignorance and enlighten
prejudice.

Such being the general character of the three Churches, their belief in and persecution of
such crimes as witchcraft and sorcery were necessarily modelled upon the peculiar tenets which
each system professed, and gave rise to various results in the countries where they were severally
received.

The Church of Rome, as we have seen, was unwilling, in her period of undisputed power, to call
in the secular arm to punish men for witchcraft--a crime which fell especially under ecclesiastical
cognizance, and could, according to her belief, be subdued by the spiritual arm alone. The
learned men at the head of the establishment might safely despise the attempt at those hidden
arts as impossible; or, even if they were of a more credulous disposition, they might be unwilling
to make laws by which their own enquiries in the mathematics, algebra, chemistry, and other
pursuits vulgarly supposed to approach the confines of magic art, might be inconveniently restricted.
The more selfish part of the priesthood might think that a general belief in the existence
of witches should be permitted to remain, as a source both of power and of revenue--that if
there were no possessions, there could be no exorcism-fees--and, in short, that a wholesome
faith in all the absurdities of the vulgar creed as to supernatural influences was necessary
to maintain the influence of Diana of Ephesus. They suffered spells to be manufactured, since
every friar had the power of reversing them; they permitted poison to be distilled, because
every convent had the antidote, which was disposed of to all who chose to demand it. It was
not till the universal progress of heresy, in the end of the fifteenth century, that the bull
of Pope Innocent VIII., already quoted, called to convict, imprison, and condemn the sorcerers,
chiefly because it was the object to transfer the odium of these crimes to the Waldenses, and
excite and direct the public hatred against the new sect by confounding their doctrines with
the influences of the devil and his fiends. The bull of Pope Innocent was afterwards, in the
year 1523, enforced by Adrian VI. with a new one, in which excommunication was directed against
sorcerers and heretics.

While Rome thus positively declared herself against witches and sorcerers, the Calvinists,
in whose numbers must be included the greater part of the English Puritans, who, though they
had not finally severed from the communion of the Anglican Church, yet disapproved of her ritual
and ceremonies as retaining too much of the Papal stamp, ranked themselves, in accordance with
their usual policy, in diametrical opposition to the doctrine of the Mother Church. They assumed
in the opposite sense whatever Rome pretended to as a proof of her omnipotent authority. The
exorcisms, forms, and rites, by which good Catholics believed that incarnate fiends could be
expelled and evil spirits of every kind rebuked--these, like the holy water, the robes of the
priest, and the sign of the cross, the Calvinists considered either with scorn and contempt
as the tools of deliberate quackery and imposture, or with horror and loathing, as the fit
emblems and instruments of an idolatrous system.

Such of them as did not absolutely deny the supernatural powers of which the Romanists made
boast, regarded the success of the exorcising priest, to whatever extent they admitted it,
as at best a casting out of devils by the power of Beelzebub, the King of the Devils. They
saw also, and resented bitterly, the attempt to confound any dissent from the doctrines of
Rome with the proneness to an encouragement of rites of sorcery. On the whole, the Calvinists,
generally speaking, were of all the contending sects the most suspicious of sorcery, the most
undoubting believers in its existence, and the most eager to follow it up with what they conceived
to be the due punishment of the most fearful of crimes.

The leading divines of the Church of England were, without doubt, fundamentally as much opposed
to the doctrines of Rome as those who altogether disclaimed opinions and ceremonies merely
because she had entertained them. But their position in society tended strongly to keep them
from adopting, on such subjects as we are now discussing, either the eager credulity of the
vulgar mind or the fanatic ferocity of their Calvinistic rivals. We have no purpose to discuss
the matter in detail--enough has probably been said to show generally why the Romanist should
have cried out a miracle respecting an incident which the Anglican would have contemptuously
termed an imposture; while the Calvinist, inspired with a darker zeal, and, above all, with
the unceasing desire of open controversy with the Catholics, would have styled the same event
an operation of the devil.

It followed that, while the divines of the Church of England possessed the upper hand in the
kingdom, witchcraft, though trials and even condemnations for that offence occasionally occurred,
did not create that epidemic terror which the very suspicion of the offence carried with it
elsewhere; so that Reginald Scot and others alleged it was the vain pretences and empty forms
of the Church of Rome, by the faith reposed in them, which had led to the belief of witchcraft
or sorcery in general. Nor did prosecutions on account of such charges frequently involve a
capital punishment, while learned judges were jealous of the imperfection of the evidence to
support the charge, and entertained a strong and growing suspicion that legitimate grounds
for such trials seldom actually existed. On the other hand, it usually happened that wherever
the Calvinist interest became predominant in Britain, a general persecution of sorcerers and
witches seemed to take place of consequence. Fearing and hating sorcery more than other Protestants,
connecting its ceremonies and usages with those of the detested Catholic Church, the Calvinists
were more eager than other sects in searching after the traces of this crime, and, of course,
unusually successful, as they might suppose, in making discoveries of guilt, and pursuing it
to the expiation of the fagot. In a word, a principle already referred to by Dr. Francis Hutchison
will be found to rule the tide and the reflux of such cases in the different churches. The
numbers of witches, and their supposed dealings with Satan, will increase or decrease according
as such doings are accounted probable or impossible. Under the former supposition, charges
and convictions will be found augmented in a terrific degree. When the accusations are disbelieved
and dismissed as not worthy of attention, the crime becomes unfrequent, ceases to occupy the
public mind, and affords little trouble to the judges.

The passing of Elizabeth's statute against witchcraft in 1562 does not seem to have been intended
to increase the number of trials, or cases of conviction at least; and the fact is, it did
neither the one nor the other. Two children were tried in 1574 for counterfeiting possession,
and stood in the pillory for impostors. Mildred Norrington, called the Maid of Westwell, furnished
another instance of possession; but she also confessed her imposture, and publicly showed her
fits and tricks of mimicry. The strong influence already possessed by the Puritans may probably
be sufficient to account for the darker issue of certain cases, in which both juries and judges
in Elizabeth's time must be admitted to have shown fearful severity.

These cases of possession were in some respects sore snares to the priests of the Church of
Rome, who, while they were too sagacious not to be aware that the pretended fits, contortions,
strange sounds, and other extravagances, produced as evidence of the demon's influence on the
possessed person, were nothing else than marks of imposture by some idle vagabond, were nevertheless
often tempted to admit them as real, and take the credit of curing them. The period was one
when the Catholic Church had much occasion to rally around her all the respect that remained
to her in a schismatic and heretical kingdom; and when her fathers and doctors announced the
existence of such a dreadful disease, and of the power of the church's prayers, relics, and
ceremonies, to cure it, it was difficult for a priest, supposing him more tender of the interest
of his order than that of truth, to avoid such a tempting opportunity as a supposed case of
possession offered for displaying the high privilege in which his profession made him a partaker,
or to abstain from conniving at the imposture, in order to obtain for his church the credit
of expelling the demon. It was hardly to be wondered at, if the ecclesiastic was sometimes
induced to aid the fraud of which such motives forbade him to be the detector. At this he might
hesitate the less, as he was not obliged to adopt the suspected and degrading course of holding
an immediate communication in limine with the impostor, since a hint or two, dropped in the
supposed sufferer's presence, might give him the necessary information what was the most exact
mode of performing his part, and if the patient was possessed by a devil of any acuteness or
dexterity, he wanted no further instruction how to play it. Such combinations were sometimes
detected, and brought more discredit on the Church of Rome than was counterbalanced by any
which might be more cunningly managed. On this subject the reader may turn to Dr. Harsnett's
celebrated book on Popish Impostures, wherein he gives the history of several notorious cases
of detected fraud, in which Roman ecclesiastics had not hesitated to mingle themselves. That
of Grace Sowerbutts, instructed by a Catholic priest to impeach her grandmother of witchcraft,
was a very gross fraud.

Such cases were not, however, limited to the ecclesiastics of Rome. We have already stated
that, as extremes usually approach each other, the Dissenters, in their violent opposition
to the Papists, adopted some of their ideas respecting demoniacs; and we have now to add that
they also claimed, by the vehemence of prayer and the authority of their own sacred commission,
that power of expelling devils which the Church of Rome pretended to exercise by rites, ceremonies,
and relics. The memorable case of Richard Dugdale, called the Surrey Impostor, was one of the
most remarkable which the Dissenters brought forward. This youth was supposed to have sold
his soul to the devil, on condition of being made the best dancer in Lancashire, and during
his possession played a number of fantastic tricks, not much different from those exhibited
by expert posture-masters of the present day. This person threw himself into the hands of the
Dissenters, who, in their eagerness, caught at an opportunity to relieve an afflicted person,
whose case the regular clergy appeared to have neglected. They fixed a committee of their number,
who weekly attended the supposed sufferer, and exercised themselves in appointed days of humiliation
and fasting during the course of a whole year. All respect for the demon seems to have abandoned
the reverend gentlemen, after they had relieved guard in this manner for some little time,
and they got so regardless of Satan as to taunt him with the mode in which he executed his
promise to teach his vassal dancing. The following specimen of raillery is worth commemoration:--"What,
Satan! is this the dancing that Richard gave himself to thee for? &c. Canst thou dance no better?
&c. Ransack the old records of all past times and places in thy memory; canst thou not there
find out some better way of trampling? Pump thine invention dry; cannot the universal seed-plot
of subtile wiles and stratagems spring up one new method of cutting capers? Is this the top
of skill and pride, to shuffle feet and brandish knees thus, and to trip like a doe and skip
like a squirrel? And wherein differ thy leapings from the hoppings of a frog, or the bouncings
of a goat, or friskings of a dog, or gesticulations of a monkey? And cannot a palsy shake such
a loose leg as that? Dost thou not twirl like a calf that hath the turn, and twitch up thy
houghs just like a springhault tit?"[54] One might almost conceive the demon replying to this
raillery in the words of Dr. Johnson, "This merriment of parsons is extremely offensive."

[Footnote 54: Hutchison on Witchcraft, p. 162.]

The dissenters were probably too honest, however simple, to achieve a complete cure on Dugdale
by an amicable understanding; so, after their year of vigil, they relinquished their task by
degrees. Dugdale, weary of his illness, which now attracted little notice, attended a regular
physician, and was cured of that part of his disease which was not affected in a regular way
par ordonnance du médecin. But the reverend gentlemen who had taken his case in hand still
assumed the credit of curing him, and if anything could have induced them to sing Te Deum,
it would have been this occasion. They said that the effect of their public prayers had been
for a time suspended, until seconded by the continued earnestness of their private devotions!

The ministers of the Church of England, though, from education, intercourse with the world,
and other advantages, they were less prone to prejudice than those of other sects, are yet
far from being entirely free of the charge of encouraging in particular instances the witch
superstition. Even while Dr. Hutchison pleads that the Church of England has the least to answer
for in that matter, he is under the necessity of acknowledging that some regular country clergymen
so far shared the rooted prejudices of congregations, and of the government which established
laws against it, as to be active in the persecution of the suspected, and even in countenancing
the superstitious signs by which in that period the vulgar thought it possible to ascertain
the existence of the afflictions by witchcraft, and obtain the knowledge of the perpetrator.
A singular case is mentioned of three women, called the Witches of Warbois. Indeed, their story
is a matter of solemn enough record; for Sir Samuel Cromwell, having received the sum of forty
pounds as lord of the manor, out of the estate of the poor persons who suffered, turned it
into a rent-charge of forty shillings yearly, for the endowment of an annual lecture on the
subject of witchcraft, to be preached by a doctor or bachelor of divinity of Queen's College,
Cambridge. The accused, one Samuel and his wife, were old and very poor persons, and their
daughter a young woman. The daughter of a Mr. Throgmorton, seeing the poor old woman in a black
knitted cap, at a time when she was not very well, took a whim that she had bewitched her,
and was ever after exclaiming against her. The other children of this fanciful family caught
up the same cry, and the eldest of them at last got up a vastly pretty drama, in which she
herself furnished all the scenes and played all the parts.

Such imaginary scenes, or make-believe stories, are the common amusement of lively children;
and most readers may remember having had some Utopia of their own. But the nursery drama of
Miss Throgmorton had a horrible conclusion. This young lady and her sisters were supposed to
be haunted by nine spirits, dispatched by the wicked Mother Samuel for that purpose. The sapient
parents heard one part of the dialogue, when the children in their fits returned answers, as
was supposed, to the spirits who afflicted them; and when the patients from time to time recovered,
they furnished the counterpart by telling what the spirits had said to them. The names of the
spirits were Pluck, Hardname, Catch, Blue, and three Smacks, who were cousins. Mrs. Joan Throgmorton,
the eldest (who, like other young women of her age, about fifteen, had some disease on her
nerves, and whose fancy ran apparently on love and gallantry), supposed that one of the Smacks
was her lover, did battle for her with the less friendly spirits, and promised to protect her
against Mother Samuel herself; and the following curious extract will show on what a footing
of familiarity the damsel stood with her spiritual gallant: "From whence come you, Mr. Smack?"
says the afflicted young lady; "and what news do you bring?" Smack, nothing abashed, informed
her he came from fighting with Pluck: the weapons, great cowl-staves; the scene, a ruinous
bakehouse in Dame Samuel's yard. "And who got the mastery, I pray you?" said the damsel. Smack
answered, he had broken Pluck's head. "I would," said the damsel, "he had broken your neck
also." "Is that the thanks I am to have for my labour?" said the disappointed Smack. "Look
you for thanks at my hand?" said the distressed maiden. "I would you were all hanged up against
each other, with your dame for company, for you are all naught." On this repulse, exit Smack,
and enter Pluck, Blue, and Catch, the first with his head broken, the other limping, and the
third with his arm in a sling, all trophies of Smack's victory. They disappeared after having
threatened vengeance upon the conquering Smack. However, he soon afterwards appeared with his
laurels. He told her of his various conflicts. "I wonder," said Mrs. Joan, or Jane, "that you
are able to beat them; you are little, and they very big." "He cared not for that," he replied;
"he would beat the best two of them, and his cousins Smacks would beat the other two." This
most pitiful mirth, for such it certainly is, was mixed with tragedy enough. Miss Throgmorton
and her sisters railed against Darne Samuel; and when Mr. Throgmorton brought her to his house
by force, the little fiends longed to draw blood of her, scratch her, and torture her, as the
witch-creed of that period recommended; yet the poor woman incurred deeper suspicion when she
expressed a wish to leave a house where she was so coarsely treated and lay under such odious
suspicions.

It was in vain that this unhappy creature endeavoured to avert their resentment by submitting
to all the ill-usage they chose to put upon her; in vain that she underwent unresistingly the
worst usage at the hand of Lady Cromwell, her landlady, who, abusing her with the worst epithets,
tore her cap from her head, clipped out some of her hair, and gave it to Mrs. Throgmorton to
burn it for a counter-charm. Nay, Mother Samuel's complaisance in the latter case only led
to a new charge. It happened that the Lady Cromwell, on her return home, dreamed of her day's
work, and especially of the old dame and her cat; and, as her ladyship died in a year and quarter
from that very day, it was sagaciously concluded that she must have fallen a victim to the
witcheries of the terrible Dame Samuel. Mr. Throgmorton also compelled the old woman and her
daughter to use expressions which put their lives in the power of these malignant children,
who had carried on the farce so long that they could not well escape from their own web of
deceit but by the death of these helpless creatures. For example, the prisoner, Dame Samuel,
was induced to say to the supposed spirit, "As I am a witch, and a causer of Lady Cromwell's
death, I charge thee to come out of the maiden." The girl lay still; and this was accounted
a proof that the poor woman, who, only subdued and crushed by terror and tyranny, did as she
was bidden, was a witch. One is ashamed of an English judge and jury when it must be repeated
that the evidence of these enthusiastic and giddy-pated girls was deemed sufficient to the
condemnation of three innocent persons. Goody Samuel, indeed, was at length worried into a
confession of her guilt by the various vexations which were practised on her. But her husband
and daughter continued to maintain their innocence. The last showed a high spirit and proud
value for her character. She was advised by some, who pitied her youth, to gain at least a
respite by pleading pregnancy; to which she answered disdainfully, "No, I will not be both
held witch and strumpet!" The mother, to show her sanity of mind and the real value of her
confession, caught at the advice recommended to her daughter. As her years put such a plea
out of the question, there was a laugh among the unfeeling audience, in which the poor old
victim joined loudly and heartily. Some there were who thought it no joking matter, and were
inclined to think they had a Joanna Southcote before them, and that the devil must be the father.
These unfortunate Samuels were condemned at Huntingdon, before Mr. Justice Fenner, 4th April,
1593. It was a singular case to be commemorated by an annual lecture, as provided by Sir Samuel
Cromwell, for the purposes of justice were never so perverted, nor her sword turned to a more
flagrant murder.

We may here mention, though mainly for the sake of contrast, the much-disputed case of Jane
Wenham, the Witch of Walkerne, as she was termed, which was of a much later date. Some of the
country clergy were carried away by the land-flood of superstition in this instance also and
not only encouraged the charge, but gave their countenance to some of the ridiculous and indecent
tricks resorted to as proofs of witchcraft by the lowest vulgar. But the good sense of the
judge, seconded by that of other reflecting and sensible persons, saved the country from the
ultimate disgrace attendant on too many of these unhallowed trials. The usual sort of evidence
was brought against this poor woman, by pretences of bewitched persons vomiting fire--a trick
very easy to those who chose to exhibit such a piece of jugglery amongst such as rather desire
to be taken in by it than to detect the imposture. The witchfinder practised upon her the most
vulgar and ridiculous tricks or charms; and out of a perverted examination they drew what they
called a confession, though of a forced and mutilated character. Under such proof the jury
brought her in guilty, and she was necessarily condemned to die. More fortunate, however, than
many persons placed in the like circumstances, Jane Wenham was tried before a sensible and
philosophic judge, who could not understand that the life of an Englishwoman, however mean,
should be taken away by a set of barbarous tricks and experiments, the efficacy of which depended
on popular credulity. He reprieved the witch before he left the assize-town. The rest of the
history is equally a contrast to some we have told and others we shall have to recount. A humane
and high-spirited gentleman, Colonel Plummer of Gilston, putting at defiance popular calumny,
placed the poor old woman in a small house near his own and under his immediate protection.
Here she lived and died, in honest and fair reputation, edifying her visitors by her accuracy
and attention in repeating her devotions; and, removed from her brutal and malignant neighbours,
never afterwards gave the slightest cause of suspicion or offence till her dying day. As this
was one of the last cases of conviction in England, Dr Hutchison has been led to dilate upon
it with some strength of eloquence as well as argument.

He thus expostulates with some of the better class who were eager for the prosecution:--"(1)
What single fact of sorcery did this Jane Wenham do? What charm did she use, or what act of
witchcraft could you prove upon her? Laws are against evil actions that can be proved to be
of the person's doing. What single fact that was against the statute could you fix upon her?
I ask (2) Did she so much as speak an imprudent word, or do an immoral action, that you could
put into the narrative of her case? When she was denied a few turnips, she laid them down very
submissively; when she was called witch and bitch, she only took the proper means for the vindication
of her good name; when she saw this storm coming upon her she locked herself in her own house
and tried to keep herself out of your cruel hands; when her door was broken open, and you gave
way to that barbarous usage that she met with, she protested her innocence, fell upon her knees,
and begged she might not go to gaol, and, in her innocent simplicity, would have let you swim
her; and at her trial she declared herself a clear woman. This was her behaviour. And what
could any of us have done better, excepting in that case where she complied with you too much,
and offered to let you swim her?

"(3) When you used the meanest of paganish and popish superstitions--when you scratched and
mangled and ran pins into her flesh, and used that ridiculous trial of the bottle, &c.--whom
did you consult, and from whom did you expect your answers? Who was your father? and into whose
hands did you put yourselves? and (if the true sense of the statute had been turned upon you)
which way would you have defended yourselves? (4) Durst you have used her in this manner if
she had been rich? and doth not her poverty increase rather than lessen your guilt in what you did?

"And therefore, instead of closing your book with a liberavimus animas nostras, and reflecting
upon the court, I ask you (5) Whether you have not more reason to give God thanks that you
met with a wise judge, and a sensible gentleman, who kept you from shedding innocent blood,
and reviving the meanest and cruelest of all superstitions amongst us?"[55]

[Footnote 55: Hutchison's "Essay on Witchcraft," p. 166.]

But although individuals of the English Church might on some occasions be justly accused of
falling into lamentable errors on a subject where error was so general, it was not an usual
point of their professional character; and it must be admitted that the most severe of the
laws against witchcraft originated with a Scottish King of England, and that the only extensive
persecution following that statute occurred during the time of the Civil Wars, when the Calvinists
obtained for a short period a predominating influence in the councils of Parliament.

James succeeded to Elizabeth amidst the highest expectations on the part of his new people,
who, besides their general satisfaction at coming once more under the rule of a king, were
also proud of his supposed abilities and real knowledge of books and languages, and were naturally,
though imprudently, disposed to gratify him by deferring to his judgment in matters wherein
his studies were supposed to have rendered him a special proficient. Unfortunately, besides
the more harmless freak of becoming a prentice in the art of poetry, by which words and numbers
were the only sufferers, the monarch had composed a deep work upon Demonology, embracing in
their fullest extent the most absurd and gross of the popular errors on this subject. He considered
his crown and life as habitually aimed at by the sworn slaves of Satan. Several had been executed
for an attempt to poison him by magical arts; and the turbulent Francis Stewart, Earl of Bothwell,
whose repeated attempts on his person had long been James's terror, had begun his course of
rebellion by a consultation with the weird sisters and soothsayers. Thus the king, who had
proved with his pen the supposed sorcerers to be the direct enemies of the Deity, and who conceived
he knew them from experience to be his own--who, moreover, had upon much lighter occasions
(as in the case of Vorstius) showed no hesitation at throwing his royal authority into the
scale to aid his arguments--very naturally used his influence, when it was at the highest,
to extend and enforce the laws against a crime which he both hated and feared.

The English statute against witchcraft, passed in the very first year of that reign, is therefore
of a most special nature, describing witchcraft by all the various modes and ceremonies in
which, according to King James's fancy, that crime could be perpetrated; each of which was
declared felony, without benefit of clergy.

This gave much wider scope to prosecution on the statute than had existed under the milder
acts of Elizabeth. Men might now be punished for the practice of witchcraft, as itself a crime,
without necessary reference to the ulterior objects of the perpetrator. It is remarkable that
in the same year, when the legislature rather adopted the passions and fears of the king than
expressed their own by this fatal enactment, the Convocation of the Church evinced a very different
spirit; for, seeing the ridicule brought on their sacred profession by forward and presumptuous
men, in the attempt to relieve demoniacs from a disease which was commonly occasioned by natural
causes, if not the mere creature of imposture, they passed a canon, establishing that no minister
or ministers should in future attempt to expel any devil or devils, without the license of
his bishop; thereby virtually putting a stop to a fertile source of knavery among the people,
and disgraceful folly among the inferior churchmen.

The new statute of James does not, however, appear to have led at first to many prosecutions.
One of the most remarkable was (proh pudor!) instigated by a gentleman, a scholar of classical
taste, and a beautiful poet, being no other than Edward Fairfax of Fayston, in Knaresborough
Forest, the translator of Tasso's "Jerusalem Delivered."

Like Mr. Throgmorton in the Warbois case, Mr. Fairfax accused six of his neighbours of tormenting
his children by fits of an extraordinary kind, by imps, and by appearing before the afflicted
in their own shape during the crisis of these operations. The admitting this last circumstance
to be a legitimate mode of proof, gave a most cruel advantage against the accused, for it could
not, according to the ideas of the demonologists, be confuted even by the most distinct alibi.
To a defence of that sort it was replied that the afflicted person did not see the actual witch,
whose corporeal presence must indeed have been obvious to every one in the room as well as
to the afflicted, but that the evidence of the sufferers related to the appearance of their
spectre, or apparition; and this was accounted a sure sign of guilt in those whose forms were
so manifested during the fits of the afflicted, and who were complained of and cried out upon
by the victim. The obvious tendency of this doctrine, as to visionary or spectral evidence,
as it was called, was to place the life and fame of the accused in the power of any hypochondriac
patient or malignant impostor, who might either seem to see, or aver she saw, the spectrum
of the accused old man or old woman, as if enjoying and urging on the afflictions which she
complained of; and, strange to tell, the fatal sentence was to rest, not upon the truth of
the witnesses' eyes, but that of their imagination. It happened fortunately for Fairfax's memory,
that the objects of his prosecution were persons of good character, and that the judge was
a man of sense, and made so wise and skilful a charge to the jury, that they brought in a verdict
of not guilty.

The celebrated case of "the Lancashire witches" (whose name was and will be long remembered,
partly from Shadwell's play, but more from the ingenious and well-merited compliment to the
beauty of the females of that province which it was held to contain), followed soon after.
Whether the first notice of this sorcery sprung from the idle head of a mischievous boy, is
uncertain; but there is no doubt that it was speedily caught up and fostered for the purpose
of gain. The report against these people is drawn up by Thomas Potts. An obliging correspondent
sent me a sight of a copy of this curious and rare book. The chief personage in the drama is
Elizabeth Southam, a witch redoubted under the name of Dembdike, an account of whom may be
seen in Mr. Roby's "Antiquities of Lancaster," as well as a description of Maulkins' Tower,
the witches' place of meeting. It appears that this remote county was full of Popish recusants,
travelling priests, and so forth; and some of their spells are given in which the holy names
and things alluded to form a strange contrast with the purpose to which they were applied,
as to secure a good brewing of ale or the like. The public imputed to the accused parties a
long train of murders, conspiracies, charms, mischances, hellish and damnable practices, "apparent,"
says the editor, "on their own examinations and confessions," and, to speak the truth, visible
nowhere else. Mother Dembdike had the good luck to die before conviction. Among other tales,
we have one of two female devils, called Fancy and Tib. It is remarkable that some of the unfortunate
women endeavoured to transfer the guilt from themselves to others with whom they had old quarrels,
which confessions were held good evidence against those who made them, and against the alleged
accomplice also. Several of the unhappy women were found not guilty, to the great displeasure
of the ignorant people of the county. Such was the first edition of the Lancashire witches.
In that which follows the accusation can be more clearly traced to the most villanous conspiracy.

About 1634 a boy called Edmund Robinson, whose father, a very poor man, dwelt in Pendle Forest,
the scene of the alleged witching, declared that while gathering bullees (wild plums, perhaps)
in one of the glades of the forest, he saw two greyhounds, which he imagined to belong to gentlemen
in that neighbourhood. The boy reported that, seeing nobody following them, he proposed to
have a course; but though a hare was started, the dogs refused to run. On this, young Robinson
was about to punish them with a switch, when one Dame Dickenson, a neighbour's wife, started
up instead of the one greyhound; a little boy instead of the other. The witness averred that
Mother Dickenson offered him money to conceal what he had seen, which he refused, saying "Nay,
thou art a witch." Apparently she was determined he should have full evidence of the truth
of what he said, for, like the Magician Queen in the Arabian Tales, she pulled out of her pocket
a bridle and shook it over the head of the boy who had so lately represented the other greyhound.
He was directly changed into a horse; Mother Dickenson mounted, and took Robinson before her.
They then rode to a large house or barn called Hourstoun, into which Edmund Robinson entered
with others. He there saw six or seven persons pulling at halters, from which, as they pulled
them, meat ready dressed came flying in quantities, together with lumps of butter, porringers
of milk, and whatever else might, in the boy's fancy, complete a rustic feast. He declared
that while engaged in the charm they made such ugly faces and looked so fiendish that he was
frightened. There was more to the same purpose--as the boy's having seen one of these hags
sitting half-way up his father's chimney, and some such goodly matter. But it ended in near
a score of persons being committed to prison; and the consequence was that young Robinson was
carried from church to church in the neighbourhood, that he might recognise the faces of any
persons he had seen at the rendezvous of witches. Old Robinson, who had been an evidence against
the former witches in 1613, went along with his son, and knew, doubtless, how to make his journey
profitable; and his son probably took care to recognise none who might make a handsome consideration.
"This boy," says Webster, "was brought into the church at Kildwick, a parish church, where
I, being then curate there, was preaching at the time, to look about him, which made some little
disturbance for the time." After prayers Mr. Webster sought and found the boy, and two very
unlikely persons, who, says he, "did conduct him and manage the business: I did desire some
discourse with the boy in private, but that they utterly denied. In the presence of a great
many many people I took the boy near me and said, 'Good boy, tell me truly and in earnest,
didst thou hear and see such strange things of the motions of the witches as many do report
that thou didst relate, or did not some person teach thee to say such things of thyself?' But
the two men did pluck the boy from me, and said he had been examined by two able justices of
peace, and they never asked him such a question. To whom I replied, 'The persons accused had
the more wrong.'" The boy afterwards acknowledged, in his more advanced years, that he was
instructed and suborned to swear these things against the accused persons by his father and
others, and was heard often to confess that on the day which he pretended to see the said witches
at the house or barn, he was gathering plums in a neighbour's orchard.[56]

[Footnote 56: Webster on Witchcraft, edition 1677, p. 278.]

There was now approaching a time when the law against witchcraft, sufficiently bloody in itself,
was to be pushed to more violent extremities than the quiet scepticism of the Church of England
clergy gave way to. The great Civil War had been preceded and anticipated by the fierce disputes
of the ecclesiastical parties. The rash and ill-judged attempt to enforce upon the Scottish
a compliance with the government and ceremonies of the High Church divines, and the severe
prosecutions in the Star Chamber and Prerogative Courts, had given the Presbyterian system
for a season a great degree of popularity in England; and as the King's party declined during
the Civil War, and the state of church-government was altered, the influence of the Calvinistic
divines increased. With much strict morality and pure practice of religion, it is to be regretted
these were still marked by unhesitating belief in the existence of sorcery, and a keen desire
to extend and enforce the legal penalties against it. Wier has considered the clergy of every
sect as being too eager in this species of persecution: Ad gravem hanc impietatem, connivent
theologi plerique omnes. But it is not to be denied that the Presbyterian ecclesiastics who,
in Scotland, were often appointed by the Privy Council Commissioners for the trial of witchcraft,
evinced a very extraordinary degree of credulity in such cases, and that the temporary superiority
of the same sect in England was marked by enormous cruelties of this kind. To this general
error we must impute the misfortune that good men, such as Calamy and Baxter, should have countenanced
or defended such proceedings as those of the impudent and cruel wretch called Matthew Hopkins,
who, in those unsettled times, when men did what seemed good in their own eyes, assumed the
title of Witchfinder General, and, travelling through the counties of Essex, Sussex, Norfolk,
and Huntingdon, pretended to discover witches, superintending their examination by the most
unheard-of tortures, and compelling forlorn and miserable wretches to admit and confess matters
equally absurd and impossible; the issue of which was the forfeiture of their lives. Before
examining these cases more minutely, I will quote Baxter's own words; for no one can have less
desire to wrong a devout and conscientious man, such as that divine most unquestionably was,
though borne aside on this occasion by prejudice and credulity. Mr. Baxter passes on to another
story of a mother who gave her child an imp like a mole, and told her to keep it in a can near
the fire, and she would never want; and more such stuff as nursery-maids tell froward children
to keep them quiet.

It is remarkable that in this passage Baxter names the Witchfinder General rather slightly
as "one Hopkins," and without doing him the justice due to one who had discovered more than
one hundred witches, and brought them to confessions, which that good man received as indubitable.
Perhaps the learned divine was one of those who believed that the Witchfinder General had cheated
the devil out of a certain memorandum-book, in which Satan, for the benefit of his memory certainly,
had entered all the witches' names in England, and that Hopkins availed himself of this record.[57]

[Footnote 57: This reproach is noticed in a very rare tract, which was bought at Mr. Lort's
sale, by the celebrated collector Mr. Bindley, and is now in the author's possession. A monster
like Hopkins could only have existed during the confusion of civil dissension. He was perhaps
a native of Manningtree, in Essex; at any rate, he resided there in the year 1644, when an
epidemic outcry of witchcraft arose in that town. Upon this occasion he had made himself busy,
and, affecting more zeal and knowledge than other men, learned his trade of a witchfinder,
as he pretends, from experiment. He was afterwards permitted to perform it as a legal profession,
and moved from one place to another, with an assistant named Sterne, and a female. In his defence
against an accusation of fleecing the country, he declares his regular charge was twenty shillings
a town, including charges of living and journeying thither and back again with his assistants.
He also affirms that he went nowhere unless called and invited. His principal mode of discovery
was to strip the accused persons naked, and thrust pins into various parts of their body, to
discover the witch's mark, which was supposed to be inflicted by the devil as a sign of his
sovereignty, and at which she was also said to suckle her imps. He also practised and stoutly
defended the trial by swimming, when the suspected person was wrapped in a sheet, having the
great toes and thumbs tied together, and so dragged through a pond or river. If she sank, it
was received in favour of the accused; but if the body floated (which must have occurred ten
times for once, if it was placed with care on the surface of the water), the accused was condemned,
on the principle of King James, who, in treating of this mode of trial, lays down that, as
witches have renounced their baptism, so it is just that the element through which the holy
rite is enforced should reject them, which is a figure of speech, and no argument. It was Hopkins's
custom to keep the poor wretches waking, in order to prevent them from having encouragement
from the devil, and, doubiless, to put infirm, terrified, overwatched persons in the next state
to absolute madness; and for the same purpose they were dragged about by their keepers till
extreme weariness and the pain of blistered feet might form additional inducements to confession.
Hopkins confesses these last practices of keeping the accused persons waking, and forcing them
to walk for the same purpose, had been originally used by him. But as his tract is a professed
answer to charges of cruelty and oppression, he affirms that both practices were then disused,
and that they had not of late been resorted to.

The boast of the English nation is a manly independence and common-sense, which will not long
permit the license of tyranny or oppression on the meanest and most obscure sufferers. Many
clergymen and gentlemen made head against the practices of this cruel oppressor of the defenceless,
and it required courage to do so when such an unscrupulous villain had so much interest.

Mr. Gaul, a clergyman, of Houghton, in Huntingdonshire, had the courage to appear in print
on the weaker side; and Hopkins, in consequence, assumed the assurance to write to some functionaries
of the place the following letter, which is an admirable medley of impudence, bullying, and
cowardice:--

"My service to your worship presented.--I have this day received a letter to come to a town
called Great Houghton to search for evil-disposed persons called witches (though I hear your
minister is far against us, through ignorance). I intend to come, God willing, the sooner to
hear his singular judgment in the behalf of such parties. I have known a minister in Suffolk
as much against this discovery in a pulpit, and forced to recant it by the Committee[58] in
the same place. I much marvel such evil men should have any (much more any of the clergy, who
should daily speak terror to convince such offenders) stand up to take their parts against
such as are complainants for the king, and sufferers themselves, with their families and estates.
I intend to give your town a visit suddenly. I will come to Kimbolton this week, and it will
be ten to one but I will come to your town first; but I would certainly know before whether
your town affords many sticklers for such cattle, or is willing to give and allow us good welcome
and entertainment, as others where I have been, else I shall waive your shire (not as yet beginning
in any part of it myself), and betake me to such places where I do and may punish (not only)
without control, but with thanks and recompense. So I humbly take my leave, and rest your servant
to be commanded,

"MATTHEW HOPKINS."

[Footnote 58: Of Parliament.]

The sensible and courageous Mr. Gaul describes the tortures employed by this fellow as equal
to any practised in the Inquisition.

If torture of this kind was applied to the Reverend Mr. Lewis, whose death is too slightly
announced by Mr. Baxter, we can conceive him, or any man, to have indeed become so weary of
his life as to acknowledge that, by means of his imps, he sunk a vessel, without any purpose
of gratification to be procured to himself by such iniquity. But in another cause a judge would
have demanded some proof of the corpus delecti, some evidence of a vessel being lost at the
period, whence coming and whither bound; in short, something to establish that the whole story
was not the idle imagination of a man who might have been entirely deranged, and certainly
was so at the time he made the admission. John Lewis was presented to the vicarage of Brandiston,
near Framlington, in Suffolk, 6th May, 1596, where he lived about fifty years, till executed
as a wizard on such evidence as we have seen. Notwithstanding the story of his alleged confession,
he defended himself courageously at his trial, and was probably condemned rather as a royalist
and malignant than for any other cause. He showed at the execution considerable energy, and
to secure that the funeral service of the church should be said over his body, he read it aloud
for himself while on the road to the gibbet.

We have seen that in 1647 Hopkins's tone became lowered, and he began to disavow some of the
cruelties he had formerly practised. About the same time a miserable old woman had fallen into
the cruel hands of this miscreant near Hoxne, a village in Suffolk, and had confessed all the
usual enormities, after being without food or rest a sufficient time. "Her imp," she said,
"was called Nan." A gentleman in the neighbourhood, whose widow survived to authenticate the
story, was so indignant that he went to the house, took the woman out of such inhuman hands,
dismissed the witchfinders, and after due food and rest the poor old woman could recollect
nothing of the confession, but that she gave a favourite pullet the name of Nan. For this Dr.
Hutchison may be referred to, who quotes a letter from the relict of the humane gentleman.

In the year 1645 a Commission of Parliament was sent down, comprehending two clergymen in esteem
with the leading party, one of whom, Mr. Fairclough of Kellar, preached before the rest on
the subject of witchcraft; and after this appearance of enquiry the inquisitions and executions
went on as before. But the popular indignation was so strongly excited against Hopkins, that
some gentlemen seized on him, and put him to his own favourite experiment of swimming, on which,
as he happened to float, he stood convicted of witchcraft, and so the country was rid of him.
Whether he was drowned outright or not does not exactly appear, but he has had the honour to
be commemorated by the author of Hudibras:--

     "Hath not this present Parliament
     A leiger to the devil sent,
     Fully empower'd to treat about
     Finding revolted witches out?
     And has he not within a year
     Hang'd threescore of them in one shire?
     Some only for not being drown'd,
     And some for sitting above ground
     Whole days and nights upon their breeches,
     And feeling pain, were hang'd for witches.
     And some for putting knavish tricks
     Upon green geese or turkey chicks;
     Or pigs that suddenly deceased
     Of griefs unnatural, as he guess'd,
     Who proved himself at length a witch,
     And made a rod for his own breech." [59]

[Footnote 59: "Hudibras," part ii. canto 3.]

The understanding reader will easily conceive that this alteration of the current in favour
of those who disapproved of witch-prosecutions, must have received encouragement from some
quarter of weight and influence; yet it may sound strangely enough that this spirit of lenity
should have been the result of the peculiar principles of those sectarians of all denominations,
classed in general as Independents, who, though they had originally courted the Presbyterians
as the more numerous and prevailing party, had at length shaken themselves loose of that connexion,
and finally combated with and overcome them. The Independents were distinguished by the wildest
license in their religious tenets, mixed with much that was nonsensical and mystical. They
disowned even the title of a regular clergy, and allowed the preaching of any one who could
draw together a congregation that would support him, or who was willing, without recompense,
to minister to the spiritual necessities of his hearers. Although such laxity of discipline
afforded scope to the wildest enthusiasm, and room for all possible varieties of doctrine,
it had, on the other hand, this inestimable recommendation, that it contributed to a degree
of general toleration which was at that time unknown to any other Christian establishment.
The very genius of a religion which admitted of the subdivision of sects ad infinitum, excluded
a legal prosecution of any one of these for heresy or apostasy. If there had even existed a
sect of Manichæans, who made it their practice to adore the Evil Principle, it may be doubted
whether the other sectaries would have accounted them absolute outcasts from the pale of the
church; and, fortunately, the same sentiment induced them to regard with horror the prosecutions
against witchcraft. Thus the Independents, when, under Cromwell, they attained a supremacy
over the Presbyterians, who to a certain point had been their allies, were disposed to counteract
the violence of such proceedings under pretence of witchcraft, as had been driven forward by
the wretched Hopkins, in Essex, Norfolk, and Suffolk, for three or four years previous to 1647.

The return of Charles II. to his crown and kingdom, served in some measure to restrain the
general and wholesale manner in which the laws against witchcraft had been administered during
the warmth of the Civil War. The statute of the 1st of King James, nevertheless, yet subsisted;
nor is it in the least likely, considering the character of the prince, that he, to save the
lives of a few old men or women, would have run the risk of incurring the odium of encouraging
or sparing a crime still held in horror by a great part of his subjects. The statute, however,
was generally administered by wise and skilful judges, and the accused had such a chance of
escape as the rigour of the absurd law permitted.

Nonsense, it is too obvious, remained in some cases predominant. In the year 1663 an old dame,
named Julian Coxe, was convicted chiefly on the evidence of a huntsman, who declared on his
oath, that he laid his greyhounds on a hare, and coming up to the spot where he saw them mouth
her, there he found, on the other side of a bush, Julian Coxe lying panting and breathless,
in such a manner as to convince him that she had been the creature which afforded him the course.
The unhappy woman was executed on this evidence.

Two years afterwards (1664), it is with regret we must quote the venerable and devout Sir Matthew
Hales, as presiding at a trial, in consequence of which Amy Dunny and Rose Callender were hanged
at Saint Edmondsbury. But no man, unless very peculiarly circumstanced, can extricate himself
from the prejudices of his nation and age. The evidence against the accused was laid, 1st,
on the effect of spells used by ignorant persons to counteract the supposed witchcraft; the
use of which was, under the statute of James I., as criminal as the act of sorcery which such
counter-charms were meant to neutralize, 2ndly, The two old women, refused even the privilege
of purchasing some herrings, having expressed themselves with angry impatience, a child of
the herring-merchant fell ill in conseqence. 3rdly, A cart was driven against the miserable
cottage of Amy Dunny. She scolded, of course; and shortly after the cart--(what a good driver
will scarce comprehend)--stuck fast in a gate, where its wheels touched neither of the posts,
and yet was moved easily forward on one of the posts (by which it was not impeded) being cut
down. 4thly, One of the afflicted girls being closely muffled, went suddenly into a fit upon
being touched by one of the supposed witches. But upon another trial it was found that the
person so blindfolded fell into the same rage at the touch of an unsuspected person. What perhaps
sealed the fate of the accused was the evidence of the celebrated Sir Thomas Browne, "that
the fits were natural, but heightened by the power of the devil co-operating with the malice
of witches;"--a strange opinion, certainly, from the author of a treatise on "Vulgar Errors!"[60]

[Footnote 60: See the account of Sir T. Browne in No. XIV. of the "Family Library" ("Lives
of British Physicians"), p. 60.]

But the torch of science was now fairly lighted, and gleamed in more than one kingdom of the
world, shooting its rays on every side, and catching at all means which were calculated to
increase the illumination. The Royal Society, which had taken its rise at Oxford from a private
association who met in Dr. Wilkin's chambers about the year 1652, was, the year after the Restoration,
incorporated by royal charter, and began to publish their Transactions, and give a new and
more rational character to the pursuits of philosophy.

In France, where the mere will of the government could accomplish greater changes, the consequence
of an enlarged spirit of scientific discovery was, that a decisive stop was put to the witch-prosecutions
which had heretofore been as common in that kingdom as in England. About the year 1672 there
was a general arrest of very many shepherds and others in Normandy, and the Parliament of Rouen
prepared to proceed in the investigation with the usual severity. But an order, or arret, from
the king (Louis XIV.), with advice of his council, commanding all these unfortunate persons
to be set at liberty and protected, had the most salutary effects all over the kingdom. The
French Academy of Sciences was also founded; and, in imitation, a society of learned Germans
established a similar institution at Leipsic. Prejudices, however old, were overawed and controlled--much
was accounted for on natural principles that had hitherto been imputed to spiritual agency--everything
seemed to promise that farther access to the secrets of nature might be opened to those who
should prosecute their studies experimentally and by analysis--and the mass of ancient opinions
which overwhelmed the dark subject of which we treat began to be derided and rejected by men
of sense and education.

In many cases the prey was now snatched from the spoiler. A pragmatical justice of peace in
Somersetshire commenced a course of enquiry after offenders against the statute of James I.,
and had he been allowed to proceed, Mr. Hunt might have gained a name as renowned for witch-finding
as that of Mr. Hopkins; but his researches were stopped from higher authority--the lives of
the poor people arrested (twelve in number) were saved, and the country remained at quiet,
though the supposed witches were suffered to live. The examinations attest some curious particulars,
which may be found in Sadducismus Triumphatus: for among the usual string of froward, fanciful,
or, as they were called, afflicted children, brought forward to club their startings, starings,
and screamings, there appeared also certain remarkable confessions of the accused, from which
we learn that the Somerset Satan enlisted his witches, like a wily recruiting sergeant, with
one shilling in hand and twelve in promises; that when the party of weird-sisters passed to
the witch-meeting they used the magic words, Thout, tout, throughout, and about; and that when
they departed they exclaimed, Rentum, Tormentum! We are further informed that his Infernal
Highness, on his departure, leaves a smell, and that (in nursery-maid's phrase) not a pretty
one, behind him. Concerning this fact we have a curious exposition by Mr. Glanville.

[Footnote 61: Glanville's "Collection of Relations."]

Lord Keeper Guildford was also a stifler of the proceedings against witches. Indeed, we may
generally remark, during the latter part of the seventeenth century, that where the judges
were men of education and courage, sharing in the information of the times, they were careful
to check the precipitate ignorance and prejudice of the juries, by giving them a more precise
idea of the indifferent value of confessions by the accused themselves, and of testimony derived
from the pretended visions of those supposed to be bewitched. Where, on the contrary, judges
shared with the vulgar in their ideas of such fascination, or were contented to leave the evidence
with the jury, fearful to withstand the general cry too common on such occasions, a verdict
of guilty often followed.

We are informed by Roger North that a case of this kind happened at the assizes in Exeter,
where his brother, the Lord Chief Justice, did not interfere with the crown trials, and the
other judge left for execution a poor old woman, condemned, as usual, on her own confession,
and on the testimony of a neighbour, who deponed that he saw a cat jump into the accused person's
cottage window at twilight, one evening, and that he verily believed the said cat to be the
devil; on which precious testimony the poor wretch was accordingly hanged. On another occasion,
about the same time, the passions of the great and little vulgar were so much excited by the
aquittal of an aged village dame, whom the judge had taken some pains to rescue, that Sir John
Long, a man of rank and fortune, came to the judge in the greatest perplexity, requesting that
the hag might not be permitted to return to her miserable cottage on his estates, since all
his tenants had in that case threatened to leave him. In compassion to a gentleman who apprehended
ruin from a cause so whimsical, the dangerous old woman was appointed to be kept by the town
where she was acquitted, at the rate of half-a-crown a week, paid by the parish to which she
belonged. But behold! in the period betwixt the two assizes Sir John Long and his farmers had
mustered courage enough to petition that this witch should be sent back to them in all her
terrors, because they could support her among them at a shilling a week cheaper than they were
obliged to pay to the town for her maintenance. In a subsequent trial before Lord Chief Justice
North himself, that judge detected one of those practices which, it is to be feared, were too
common at the time, when witnesses found their advantage in feigning themselves bewitched.
A woman, supposed to be the victim of the male sorcerer at the bar, vomited pins in quantities,
and those straight, differing from the crooked pins usually produced at such times, and less
easily concealed in the mouth. The judge, however, discovered, by cross-examining a candid
witness, that in counterfeiting her fits of convulsion the woman sunk her head on her breast,
so as to take up with her lips the pins which she had placed ready in her stomacher. The man
was acquitted, of course. A frightful old hag, who was present, distinguished herself so much
by her benedictions on the judge, that he asked the cause of the peculiar interest which she
took in the acquittal. "Twenty years ago," said the poor woman, "they would have hanged me
for a witch, but could not; and now, but for your lordship, they would have murdered my innocent
son."[62]

[Footnote 62: Roger North's "Life of Lord-Keeper Guilford."]

Such scenes happened frequently on the assizes, while country gentlemen, like the excellent
Sir Roger de Coverley, retained a private share in the terror with which their tenants, servants,
and retainers regarded some old Moll White, who put the hounds at fault and ravaged the fields
with hail and hurricanes. Sir John Reresby, after an account of a poor woman tried for a witch
at York in 1686 and acquitted, as he thought, very properly, proceeds to tell us that, notwithstanding,
the sentinel upon the jail where she was confined avowed "that he saw a scroll of paper creep
from under the prison-door, and then change itself first into a monkey and then into a turkey,
which the under-keeper confirmed. This," says Sir John, "I have heard from the mouth of both,
and now leave it to be believed or disbelieved as the reader may be inclined."[63] We may see
that Reresby, a statesman and a soldier, had not as yet "plucked the old woman out of his heart."
Even Addison himself ventured no farther in his incredulity respecting this crime than to contend
that although witchcraft might and did exist, there was no such thing as a modern instance
competently proved.

[Footnote 63: "Memoirs of Sir John Reresby," p. 237.]

As late as 1682 three unhappy women named Susan Edwards, Mary Trembles, and Temperance Lloyd
were hanged at Exeter for witchcraft, and, as usual, on their own confession. This is believed
to be the last execution of the kind in England under form of judicial sentence. But the ancient
superstition, so interesting to vulgar credulity, like sediment clearing itself from water,
sunk down in a deeper shade upon the ignorant and lowest classes of society in proportion as
the higher regions were purified from its influence. The populace, including the ignorant of
every class, were more enraged against witches when their passions were once excited in proportion
to the lenity exercised towards the objects of their indignation by those who administered
the laws. Several cases occurred in which the mob, impressed with a conviction of the guilt
of some destitute old creatures, took the law into their own hands, and proceeding upon such
evidence as Hopkins would have had recourse to, at once, in their own apprehension, ascertained
their criminality and administered the deserved punishment.

The following instance of such illegal and inhuman proceedings occurred at Oakly, near Bedford,
on 12th July, 1707. There was one woman, upwards of sixty years of age, who, being under an
imputation of witchcraft, was desirous to escape from so foul a suspicion, and to conciliate
the good-will of her neighbours, by allowing them to duck her. The parish officers so far consented
to their humane experiment as to promise the poor woman a guinea if she should clear herself
by sinking. The unfortunate object was tied up in a wet sheet, her thumbs and great toes were
bound together, her cap torn off, and all her apparel searched for pins; for there is an idea
that a single pin spoils the operation of the charm. She was then dragged through the river
Ouse by a rope tied round her middle. Unhappily for the poor woman, her body floated, though
her head remained under water. The experiment was made three times with the same effect. The
cry to hang or drown the witch then became general, and as she lay half-dead on the bank they
loaded the wretch with reproaches, and hardly forbore blows. A single humane bystander took
her part, and exposed himself to rough usage for doing so. Luckily one of the mob themselves
at length suggested the additional experiment of weighing the witch against the church Bible.
The friend of humanity caught at this means of escape, supporting the proposal by the staggering
argument that the Scripture, being the work of God himself, must outweigh necessarily all the
operations or vassals of the devil. The reasoning was received as conclusive, the more readily
as it promised a new species of amusement. The woman was then weighed against a church Bible
of twelve pounds jockey weight, and as she was considerably preponderant, was dismissed with
honour. But many of the mob counted her acquittal irregular, and would have had the poor dame
drowned or hanged on the result of her ducking, as the more authentic species of trial.

At length a similar piece of inhumanity, which had a very different conclusion, led to the
final abolition of the statute of James I. as affording countenance for such brutal proceedings.
An aged pauper, named Osborne, and his wife, who resided near Tring, in Staffordshire, fell
under the suspicion of the mob on account of supposed witchcraft. The overseers of the poor,
understanding that the rabble entertained a purpose of swimming these infirm creatures, which
indeed they had expressed in a sort of proclamation, endeavoured to oppose their purpose by
securing the unhappy couple in the vestry-room, which they barricaded. They were unable, however,
to protect them in the manner they intended. The mob forced the door, seized the accused, and,
with ineffable brutality, continued dragging the wretches through a pool of water till the
woman lost her life. A brute in human form, who had superintended the murder, went among the
spectators, and requested money for the sport he had shown them! The life of the other victim
was with great difficulty saved. Three men were tried for their share in this inhuman action.
Only one of them, named Colley, was condemned and hanged. When he came to execution, the rabble,
instead of crowding round the gallows as usual, stood at a distance, and abused those who were
putting to death, they said, an honest fellow for ridding the parish of an accursed witch.
This abominable murder was committed July 30, 1751.

The repetitition of such horrors, the proneness of the people to so cruel and heart-searing
a superstition, was traced by the legislature to its source, namely, the yet unabolished statute
of James I. Accordingly, by the 9th George II. cap. 5, that odious law, so long the object
of horror to all ancient and poverty-stricken females in the kingdom, was abrogated, and all
criminal procedure on the subject of sorcery or witchcraft discharged in future throughout
Great Britain; reserving for such as should pretend to the skill of fortune-tellers, discoverers
of stolen goods, or the like, the punishment of the correction-house, as due to rogues and
vagabonds. Since that period witchcraft has been little heard of in England, and although the
belief in its existence has in remote places survived the law that recognised the evidence
of the crime, and assigned its punishment--yet such faith is gradually becoming forgotten since
the rabble have been deprived of all pretext to awaken it by their own riotous proceedings.
Some rare instances have occurred of attempts similar to that for which Colley suffered; and
I observe one is preserved in that curious register of knowledge, Mr. Hone's "Popular Amusements,"
from which it appears that as late as the end of last century this brutality was practised,
though happily without loss of life.

The Irish statute against witchcraft still exists, as it would seem. Nothing occurred in that
kingdom which recommended its being formally annulled; but it is considered as obsolete, and
should so wild a thing be attempted in the present day, no procedure, it is certain, would
now be permitted to lie upon it.

If anything were wanted to confirm the general proposition that the epidemic terror of witchcraft
increases and becomes general in proportion to the increase of prosecutions against witches,
it would be sufficient to quote certain extraordinary occurrences in New England. Only a brief
account can be here given of the dreadful hallucination under which the colonists of that province
were for a time deluded and oppressed by a strange contagious terror, and how suddenly and
singularly it was cured, even by its own excess; but it is too strong evidence of the imaginary
character of this hideous disorder to be altogether suppressed.

New England, as is well known, was peopled mainly by emigrants who had been disgusted with
the government of Charles I. in church and state, previous to the great Civil War. Many of
the more wealthy settlers were Presbyterians and Calvinists; others, fewer in number and less
influential from their fortune, were Quakers, Anabaptists, or members of the other sects who
were included under the general name of Independents. The Calvinists brought with them the
same zeal for religion and strict morality which everywhere distinguished them. Unfortunately,
they were not wise according to their zeal, but entertained a proneness to believe in supernatural
and direct personal intercourse between the devil and his vassals, an error to which, as we
have endeavoured to show, their brethren in Europe had from the beginning been peculiarly subject.
In a country imperfectly cultivated, and where the partially improved spots were embosomed
in inaccessible forests, inhabited by numerous tribes of savages, it was natural that a disposition
to superstition should rather gain than lose ground, and that to other dangers and horrors
with which they were surrounded, the colonists should have added fears of the devil, not merely
as the Evil Principle tempting human nature to sin, and thus endangering our salvation, but
as combined with sorcerers and witches to inflict death and torture upon children and others.

The first case which I observe was that of four children of a person called John Goodwin, a
mason. The eldest, a girl, had quarrelled with the laundress of the family about some linen
which was amissing. The mother of the laundress, an ignorant, testy, and choleric old Irishwoman,
scolded the accuser; and shortly after, the elder Goodwin, her sister and two brothers, were
seized with such strange diseases that all their neighbours concluded they were bewitched.
They conducted themselves as those supposed to suffer under maladies created by such influence
were accustomed to do. They stiffened their necks so hard at one time that the joints could
not be moved; at another time their necks were so flexible and supple that it seemed the bone
was dissolved. They had violent convulsions, in which their jaws snapped with the force of
a spring-trap set for vermin. Their limbs were curiously contorted, and to those who had a
taste for the marvellous, seemed entirely dislocated and displaced. Amid these distortions,
they cried out against the poor old woman, whose name was Glover, alleging that she was in
presence with them adding to their torments. The miserable Irishwoman, who hardly could speak
the English language, repeated her Pater Noster and Ave Maria like a good Catholic; but there
were some words which she had forgotten. She was therefore supposed to be unable to pronounce
the whole consistently and correctly, and condemned and executed accordingly.

But the children of Goodwin found the trade they were engaged in to be too profitable to be
laid aside, and the eldest in particular continued all the external signs of witchcraft and
possession. Some of these were excellently calculated to flatter the self-opinion and prejudices
of the Calvinist ministers by whom she was attended, and accordingly bear in their very front
the character of studied and voluntary imposture. The young woman, acting, as was supposed,
under the influence of the devil, read a Quaker treatise with ease and apparent satisfaction;
but a book written against the poor inoffensive Friends the devil would not allow his victim
to touch, She could look on a Church of England Prayer-book, and read the portions of Scripture
which it contains without difficulty or impediment; but the spirit which possessed her threw
her into fits if she attempted to read the same Scriptures from the Bible, as if the awe which
it is supposed the fiends entertain for Holy Writ depended, not on the meaning of the words,
but the arrangement of the page, and the type in which they were printed. This singular species
of flattery was designed to captivate the clergyman through his professional opinions; others
were more strictly personal. The afflicted damsel seems to have been somewhat of the humour
of the Inamorata of Messrs. Smack, Pluck, Catch, and Company, and had, like her, merry as well
as melancholy fits. She often imagined that her attendant spirits brought her a handsome pony
to ride off with them to their rendezvous. On such occasions she made a spring upwards, as
if to mount her horse, and then, still seated on her chair, mimicked with dexterity and agility
the motions of the animal pacing, trotting, and galloping, like a child on the nurse's knee;
but when she cantered in this manner upstairs, she affected inability to enter the clergyman's
study, and when she was pulled into it by force, used to become quite well, and stand up as
a rational being. "Reasons were given for this," says the simple minister, "that seem more
kind than true." Shortly after this, she appears to have treated the poor divine with a species
of sweetness and attention, which gave him greater embarrassment than her former violence.
She used to break in upon him at his studies to importune him to come downstairs, and thus
advantaged doubtless the kingdom of Satan by the interruption of his pursuits. At length the
Goodwins were, or appeared to be, cured. But the example had been given and caught, and the
blood of poor Dame Glover, which had been the introduction to this tale of a hobby-horse, was
to be the forerunner of new atrocities and fearfully more general follies.

This scene opened by the illness of two girls, a daughter and niece of Mr. Parvis, the minister
of Salem, who fell under an affliction similar to that of the Goodwins. Their mouths were stopped,
their throats choked, their limbs racked, thorns were stuck into their flesh, and pins were
ejected from their stomachs. An Indian and his wife, servants of the family, endeavouring,
by some spell of their own, to discover by whom the fatal charm had been imposed on their master's
children, drew themselves under suspicion, and were hanged. The judges and juries persevered,
encouraged by the discovery of these poor Indians' guilt, and hoping they might thus expel
from the colony the authors of such practices. They acted, says Mather, the historian, under
a conscientious wish to do justly; but the cases of witchcraft and possession increased as
if they were transmitted by contagion, and the same sort of spectral evidence being received
which had occasioned the condemnation of the Indian woman Titu, became generally fatal. The
afflicted persons failed not to see the spectres, as they were termed, of the persons by whom
they were tormented. Against this species of evidence no alibi could be offered, because it
was admitted, as we have said elsewhere, that the real persons of the accused were not there
present; and everything rested upon the assumption that the afflicted persons were telling
the truth, since their evidence could not be redargued. These spectres were generally represented
as offering their victims a book, on signing which they would be freed from their torments.
Sometimes the devil appeared in person, and added his own eloquence to move the afflicted persons
to consent.

At first, as seems natural enough, the poor and miserable alone were involved; but presently,
when such evidence was admitted as incontrovertible, the afflicted began to see the spectral
appearances of persons of higher condition and of irreproachable lives, some of whom were arrested,
some made their escape, while several were executed. The more that suffered the greater became
the number of afflicted persons, and the wider and the more numerous were the denunciations
against supposed witches. The accused were of all ages. A child of five years old was indicted
by some of the afflicted, who imagined they saw this juvenile wizard active in tormenting them,
and appealed to the mark of little teeth on their bodies, where they stated it had bitten them.
A poor dog was also hanged as having been alleged to be busy in this infernal persecution.
These gross insults on common reason occasioned a revulsion in public feeling, but not till
many lives had been sacrificed. By this means nineteen men and women were executed, besides
a stouthearted man named Cory, who refused to plead, and was accordingly pressed to death according
to the old law. On this horrible occasion a circumstance took place disgusting to humanity,
which must yet be told, to show how superstition can steel the heart of a man against the misery
of his fellow-creature. The dying man, in the mortal agony, thrust out his tongue, which the
sheriff crammed with his cane back again into his mouth. Eight persons were condemned besides
those who had actually suffered, and no less than two hundred were in prison and under examination.

Men began then to ask whether the devil might not artfully deceive the afflicted into the accusation
of good and innocent persons by presenting witches and fiends in the resemblance of blameless
persons, as engaged in the tormenting of their diseased country-folk. This argument was by
no means inconsistent with the belief in witchcraft, and was the more readily listened to on
that account. Besides, men found that no rank or condition could save them from the danger
of this horrible accusation if they continued to encourage the witnesses in such an unlimited
course as had hitherto been granted to them. Influenced by these reflections, the settlers
awoke as from a dream, and the voice of the public, which had so lately demanded vengeance
on all who were suspected of sorcery, began now, on the other hand, to lament the effusion
of blood, under the strong suspicion that part of it at least had been innocently and unjustly
sacrificed. In Mather's own language, which we use as that of a man deeply convinced of the
reality of the crime, "experience showed that the more were apprehended the more were still
afflicted by Satan, and the number of confessions increasing did but increase the number of
the accused, and the execution of some made way to the apprehension of others. For still the
afflicted complained of being tormented by new objects as the former were removed, so that
some of those that were concerned grew amazed at the number and condition of those that were
accused, and feared that Satan, by his wiles, had enwrapped innocent persons under the imputation
of that crime; and at last, as was evidently seen, there must be a stop put, or the generation
of the kingdom of God would fall under condemnation."[64]

[Footnote 64: Mather's "Magnalia," book vi. chap. lxxxii.

To this it must be added that the congregation of Salem compelled Mr. Parvis, in whose family
the disturbance had begun, and who, they alleged, was the person by whom it was most fiercely
driven on in the commencement, to leave his settlement amongst them. Such of the accused as
had confessed the acts of witchcraft imputed to them generally denied and retracted their confessions,
asserting them to have been made under fear of torture, influence of persuasion, or other circumstances
exclusive of their free will. Several of the judges and jurors concerned in the sentence of
those who were executed published their penitence for their rashness in convicting these unfortunate
persons; and one of the judges, a man of the most importance in the colony, observed, during
the rest of his life, the anniversary of the first execution as a day of solemn fast and humiliation
for his own share in the transaction. Even the barbarous Indians were struck with wonder at
the infatuation of the English colonists on this occasion, and drew disadvantageous comparisons
between them and the French, among whom, as they remarked, "the Great Spirit sends no witches."

The system of witchcraft, as believed in Scotland, must next claim our attention, as it is
different in some respects from that of England, and subsisted to a later period, and was prosecuted
with much more severity.

LETTER IX.

    Scottish Trials--Earl of Mar--Lady Glammis--William Barton--Witches
    of Auldearne--Their Rites and Charms--Their Transformation into
    Hares--Satan's Severity towards them--Their Crimes--Sir George
    Mackenzie's Opinion of Witchcraft--Instances of Confessions made by
    the Accused, in despair, and to avoid future annoyance and
    persecution--Examination by Pricking--The Mode of Judicial Procedure
    against Witches, and nature of the Evidence admissible, opened a
    door to Accusers, and left the Accused no chance of escape--The
    Superstition of the Scottish Clergy in King James VI.'s time led
    them, like their Sovereign, to encourage Witch-Prosecutions--Case of
    Bessie Graham--Supposed Conspiracy to Shipwreck James in his Voyage
    to Denmark--Meetings of the Witches, and Rites performed to
    accomplish their purpose--Trial of Margaret Barclay in 1618--Case of
    Major Weir--Sir John Clerk among the first who declined acting as
    Commissioner on the Trial of a Witch--Paisley and Pittenweem
    Witches--A Prosecution in Caithness prevented by the Interference of
    the King's Advocate in 1718--The Last Sentence of Death for
    Witchcraft pronounced in Scotland in 1722--Remains of the Witch
    Superstition--Case of supposed Witchcraft, related from the Author's
    own knowledge, which took place so late as 1800.

For many years the Scottish nation had been remarkable for a credulous belief in witchcraft,
and repeated examples were supplied by the annals of sanguinary executions on this sad accusation.
Our acquaintance with the slender foundation on which Boetius and Buchanan reared the early
part of their histories may greatly incline us to doubt whether a king named Duffus ever reigned
in Scotland, and, still more, whether he died by the agency of a gang of witches, who inflicted
torments upon an image made in his name, for the sake of compassing his death. In the tale
of Macbeth, which is another early instance of Demonology in Scottish history, the weird-sisters,
who were the original prophetesses, appeared to the usurper in a dream, and are described as
volæ, or sibyls, rather than as witches, though Shakspeare has stamped the latter character
indelibly upon them.

One of the earliest real cases of importance founded upon witchcraft was, like those of the
Duchess of Gloucester and others in the sister country, mingled with an accusation of a political
nature, which, rather than the sorcery, brought the culprits to their fate. The Earl of Mar,
brother of James III. of Scotland, fell under the king's suspicion for consulting with witches
and sorcerers how to shorten the king's days. On such a charge, very inexplicitly stated, the
unhappy Mar was bled to death in his own lodgings without either trial or conviction; immediately
after which catastrophe twelve women of obscure rank and three or four wizards, or warlocks,
as they were termed, were burnt at Edinburgh, to give a colour to the Earl's guilt.

In the year 1537 a noble matron fell a victim to a similar charge. This was Janet Douglas,
Lady Glammis, who, with her son, her second husband, and several others, stood accused of attempting
James's life by poison, with a view to the restoration of the Douglas family, of which Lady
Glammis's brother, the Earl of Angus, was the head. She died much pitied by the people, who
seem to have thought the articles against her forged for the purpose of taking her life, her
kindred and very name being so obnoxious to the King.

Previous to this lady's execution there would appear to have been but few prosecuted to death
on the score of witchcraft, although the want of the justiciary records of that period leaves
us in uncertainty. But in the end of the fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth centuries,
when such charges grew general over Europe, cases of the kind occurred very often in Scotland,
and, as we have already noticed, were sometimes of a peculiar character. There is, indeed,
a certain monotony in most tales of the kind. The vassals are usually induced to sell themselves
at a small price to the Author of Ill, who, having commonly to do with women, drives a very
hard bargain. On the contrary, when he was pleased to enact the female on a similar occasion,
he brought his gallant, one William Barton, a fortune of no less than fifteen pounds, which,
even supposing it to have been the Scottish denomination of coin, was a very liberal endowment
compared with his niggardly conduct towards the fair sex on such an occasion. Neither did he
pass false coin on this occasion, but, on the contrary, generously gave Burton a merk, to keep
the fifteen pounds whole. In observing on Satan's conduct in this matter, Master George Sinclair
observes that it is fortunate the Enemy is but seldom permitted to bribe so high (as £15 Scots);
for were this the case, he might find few men or women capable of resisting his munificence.
I look upon this as one of the most severe reflections on our forefathers' poverty which is extant.

In many of the Scottish witches' trials, as to the description of Satan's Domdaniel, and the
Sabbath which he there celebrates, the northern superstition agrees with that of England. But
some of the confessions depart from the monotony of repetition, and add some more fanciful
circumstances than occur in the general case. Isobel Gowdie's confession, already mentioned,
is extremely minute, and some part of it at least may be quoted, as there are other passages
not very edifying. The witches of Auldearne, according to this penitent, were so numerous,
that they were told off into squads, or covines, as they were termed, to each of which were
appointed two officers. One of these was called the Maiden of the Covine, and was usually,
like Tam o' Shanter's Nannie, a girl of personal attractions, whom Satan placed beside himself,
and treated with particular attention, which greatly provoked the spite of the old hags, who
felt themselves insulted by the preference.[65] When assembled, they dug up graves, and possessed
themselves of the carcases (of unchristened infants in particular), whose joints and members
they used in their magic unguents and salves. When they desired to secure for their own use
the crop of some neighbour, they made a pretence of ploughing it with a yoke of paddocks. These
foul creatures drew the plough, which was held by the devil himself. The plough-harness and
soams were of quicken grass, the sock and coulter were made out of a riglen's horn, and the
covine attended on the operation, praying the devil to transfer to them the fruit of the ground
so traversed, and leave the proprietors nothing but thistles and briars. The witches' sports,
with their elfin archery, I have already noticed (page 136). They entered the house of the
Earl of Murray himself, and such other mansions as were not fenced against them by vigil and
prayer, and feasted on the provisions they found there.

[Footnote 65: This word Covine seems to signify a subdivision or squad. The tree near the front
of an ancient castle was called the Covine tree, probably because the lord received his company
there.

"He is lord of the hunting horn,
  And king of the Covine tree;
He's well loo'd in the western waters,
  But best of his ain minnie."]

As these witches were the countrywomen of the weird sisters in Macbeth, the reader may be desirous
to hear some of their spells, and of the poetry by which they were accompanied and enforced.
They used to hash the flesh of an unchristened child, mixed with that of dogs and sheep, and
place it in the house of those whom they devoted to destruction in body or goods, saying or
singing--

"We put this intill this hame, In our lord the Devil's name; The first hands that handle thee,
Burn'd and scalded may they be! We will destroy houses and hald, With the sheep and nolt into
the fauld; And little sall come to the fore, Of all the rest of the little store!"

Metamorphoses were, according to Isobel, very common among them, and the forms of crows, cats,
hares, and other animals, were on such occasions assumed. In the hare shape Isobel herself
had a bad adventure. She had been sent by the devil to Auldearne in that favourite disguise,
with some message to her neighbours, but had the misfortune to meet Peter Papley of Killhill's
servants going to labour, having his hounds with them. The hounds sprung on the disguised witch,
"and I," says Isobel, "run a very long time, but being hard pressed, was forced to take to
my own house, the door being open, and there took refuge behind a chest." But the hounds came
in and took the other side of the chest, so that Isobel only escaped by getting into another
house, and gaining time to say the disenchanting rhyme:--

"Hare, hare, God send thee care! I am in a hare's likeness now; But I shall be a woman even
now-- Hare, hare, God send thee care!"

Such accidents, she said, were not uncommon, and the witches were sometimes bitten by the dogs,
of which the marks remained after their restoration to human shape. But none had been killed
on such occasions.

The ceremonial of the Sabbath meetings was very strict. The Foul Fiend was very rigid in exacting
the most ceremonious attention from his votaries, and the title of Lord when addressed by them.
Sometimes, however, the weird sisters, when whispering amongst themselves, irreverently spoke
of their sovereign by the name of Black John; upon such occasions the Fiend rushed on them
like a schoolmaster who surprises his pupils in delict, and beat and buffeted them without
mercy or discretion, saying, "I ken weel eneugh what you are saying of me." Then might be seen
the various tempers of those whom he commanded. Alexander Elder, in Earlseat, often fell under
his lord's displeasure for neglect of duty, and, being weak and simple, could never defend
himself save with tears, cries, and entreaties for mercy; but some of the women, according
to Isobel Gowdie's confession, had more of the spirit which animated the old dame of Kellyburn
Braes. Margaret Wilson, in Auldearne, would "defend herself finely," and make her hands save
her head, after the old Scottish manner. Bessie Wilson could also speak very crustily with
her tongue, and "belled the cat" with the devil stoutly. The others chiefly took refuge in
crying "Pity! mercy!" and such like, while Satan kept beating them with wool cards and other
sharp scourges, without attending to their entreaties or complaints. There were attendant devils
and imps, who served the witches. They were usually distinguished by their liveries, which
were sad-dun, grass-green, sea-green, and yellow. The witches were taught to call these imps
by names, some of which might belong to humanity, while others had a diabolical sound. These
were Robert the Jakis, Saunders the Red Reaver, Thomas the Feary, Swein, an old Scandinavian
Duerg probably; the Roaring Lion, Thief of Hell, Wait-upon-Herself, MacKeeler, Robert the Rule,
Hendrie Craig, and Rorie. These names, odd and uncouth enough, are better imagined at least
than those which Hopkins contrived for the imps which he discovered--such as Pyewacket, Peck-in-the-Crown,
Sack-and-Sugar, News, Vinegar-Tom, and Grizell Greedigut, the broad vulgarity of which epithets
shows what a flat imagination he brought to support his impudent fictions.

The devil, who commanded the fair sisterhood, being fond of mimicking the forms of the Christian
church, used to rebaptize the witches with their blood, and in his own great name. The proud-stomached
Margaret Wilson, who scorned to take a blow unrepaid, even from Satan himself, was called Pickle-nearest-the-Wind;
her compeer, Bessie Wilson, was Throw-the-Cornyard; Elspet Nishe's was Bessie Bald; Bessie
Hay's nickname was Able-and-Stout; and Jane Mairten, the Maiden of the Covine, was called Ower-the-Dike-with-it.

Isobel took upon herself, and imputed to her sisters, as already mentioned, the death of sundry
persons shot with elf-arrows, because they had omitted to bless themselves as the aerial flight
of the hags swept past them.[66] She had herself the temerity to shoot at the Laird of Park
as he was riding through a ford, but missed him through the influence of the running stream,
perhaps, for which she thanks God in her confession; and adds, that at the time she received
a great cuff from Bessie Hay for her awkwardness. They devoted the male children of this gentleman
(of the well-known family of Gordon of Park, I presume) to wasting illness, by the following
lines, placing at the same time in the fire figures composed of clay mixed with paste, to represent
the object:--

"We put this water amongst this meal, For long dwining[67] and ill heal; We put it in into
the fire, To burn them up stook and stour.[68] That they be burned with our will, Like any
stikkle[69] in a kiln."

[Footnote 66: See p. 136.]

[Footnote 67: Pining.]

[Footnote 68: We should read perhaps, "limb and lire."]

[Footnote 69: Stubble.]

Such was the singular confession of Isobel Gowdie, made voluntarily, it would seem, and without
compulsion of any kind, judicially authenticated by the subscription of the notary, clergymen,
and gentlemen present; adhered to after their separate diets, as they are called, of examination,
and containing no variety or contradiction in its details. Whatever might be her state of mind
in other respects, she seems to have been perfectly conscious of the perilous consequence of
her disclosures to her own person. "I do not deserve," says she, "to be seated here at ease
and unharmed, but rather to be stretched on an iron rack: nor can my crimes be atoned for,
were I to be drawn asunder by wild horses."

It only remains to suppose that this wretched creature was under the dominion of some peculiar
species of lunacy, to which a full perusal of her confession might perhaps guide a medical
person of judgment and experience. Her case is interesting, as throwing upon the rites and
ceremonies of the Scottish witches a light which we seek in vain elsewhere.

Other unfortunate persons were betrayed to their own reproof by other means than the derangement
of mind which seems to have operated on Isobel Gowdie. Some, as we have seen, endeavoured to
escape from the charge of witchcraft by admitting an intercourse with the fairy people; an
excuse which was never admitted as relevant. Others were subjected to cruel tortures, by which
our ancestors thought the guilty might be brought to confession, but which far more frequently
compelled the innocent to bear evidence against themselves. On this subject the celebrated
Sir George Mackenzie, "that noble wit of Scotland," as he is termed by Dryden, has some most
judicious reflections, which we shall endeavour to abstract as the result of the experience
of one who, in his capacity of Lord Advocate, had often occasion to conduct witch-trials, and
who, not doubting the existence of the crime, was of opinion that, on account of its very horror,
it required the clearest and most strict probation.

He first insists on the great improbability of the fiend, without riches to bestow, and avowedly
subjected to a higher power, being able to enlist such numbers of recruits, and the little
advantage which he himself would gain by doing so. But, 2dly, says Mackenzie, "the persons
ordinarily accused of this crime are poor ignorant men, or else women, who understand not the
nature of what they are accused of; and many mistake their own fears and apprehensions for
witchcraft, of which I shall give two instances. One, of a poor weaver who, after he had confessed
witchcraft, being asked how he saw the devil, made answer, 'Like flies dancing about the candle.'
Another, of a woman, who asked seriously, when she was accused, if a woman might be a witch
and not know it? And it is dangerous that persons, of all others the most simple, should be
tried for a crime of all others the most mysterious. 3rdly, These poor creatures, when they
are defamed, become so confounded with fear and the close prison in which they are kept, and
so starved for want of meat and drink, either of which wants is enough to disarm the strongest
reason, that hardly wiser and more serious people than they would escape distraction; and when
men are confounded with fear and apprehension, they will imagine things the most ridiculous
and absurd" of which instances are given. 4thly, "Most of these poor creatures are tortured
by their keepers, who, being persuaded they do God good service, think it their duty to vex
and torment poor prisoners delivered up to them as rebels to heaven and enemies to men; and
I know" (continues Sir George), "ex certissima scientia, that most of all that ever were taken
were tormented in this manner, and this usage was the ground of all their confession; and albeit
the poor miscreants cannot prove this usage, the actors being the only witnesses, yet the judge
should be jealous of it, as that which did at first elicit the confession, and for fear of
which they dare not retract it." 5thly, This learned author gives us an instance how these
unfortunate creatures might be reduced to confession by the very infamy which the accusation
cast upon them, and which was sure to follow, condemning them for life to a state of necessity,
misery, and suspicion, such as any person of reputation would willingly exchange for a short
death, however painful. Her companions in prison were adjudged to die, and she too had, by
a confession as full as theirs, given herself up as guilty. She therefore sent for the minister
of the town, and entreated to be put to death with the others who had been appointed to suffer
upon the next Monday. The clergyman, however, as well as others, had adopted a strong persuasion
that this confession was made up in the pride of her heart, for the destruction of her own
life, and had no foundation in truth. We give the result in the minister's words:--

"Therefore much pains was taken on her by ministers and others on Saturday, Sunday, and Monday
morning, that she might resile from that confession which was suspected to be but a temptation
of the devil, to destroy both her soul and body; yea, it was charged home upon her by the ministers,
that there was just ground of jealousy that her confession was not sincere, and she was charged
before the Lord to declare the truth, and not to take her blood upon her own head. Yet she
stiffly adhered to what she had said, and cried always to be put away with the rest. Whereupon,
on Monday morning, being called before the judges, and confessing before them what she had
said, she was found guilty and condemned to die with the rest that same day. These things to
be of truth, are attested by an eye and ear witness who is yet alive, a faithful minister of
the gospel."[71] It is strange the inference does not seem to have been deduced, that as one
woman out of very despair renounced her own life, the same might have been the case in many
other instances, wherein the confessions of the accused constituted the principal if not sole
evidence of the guilt.

[Footnote 71: Sinclair's "Satan's Invisible World Discovered," p. 43.]

One celebrated mode of detecting witches and torturing them at the same time, to draw forth
confession, was by running pins into their body, on pretence of discovering the devil's stigma,
or mark, which was said to be inflicted by him upon all his vassals, and to be insensible to
pain. This species of search, the practice of the infamous Hopkins, was in Scotland reduced
to a trade; and the young witchfinder was allowed to torture the accused party, as if in exercise
of a lawful calling, although Sir George Mackenzie stigmatises it as a horrid imposture. I
observe in the Collections of Mr. Pitcairn, that at the trial of Janet Peaston of Dalkeith
the magistrates and ministers of that market town caused John Kincaid of Tranent, the common
pricker, to exercise his craft upon her, "who found two marks of what he called the devil's
making, and which appeared indeed to be so, for she could not feel the pin when it was put
into either of the said marks, nor did they (the marks) bleed when they were taken out again;
and when she was asked where she thought the pins were put in, she pointed to a part of her
body distant from the real place. They were pins of three inches in length."

Besides the fact that the persons of old people especially sometimes contain spots void of
sensibility, there is also room to believe that the professed prickers used a pin the point
or lower part of which was, on being pressed down, sheathed in the upper, which was hollow
for the purpose, and that which appeared to enter the body did not pierce it at all. But, were
it worth while to dwell on a subject so ridiculous, we might recollect that in so terrible
an agony of shame as is likely to convulse a human being under such a trial, and such personal
insults, the blood is apt to return to the heart, and a slight wound, as with a pin, may be
inflicted without being followed by blood. In the latter end of the seventeenth century this
childish, indecent, and brutal practice began to be called by its right name. Fountainhall
has recorded that in 1678 the Privy Council received the complaint of a poor woman who had
been abused by a country magistrate and one of those impostors called prickers. They expressed
high displeasure against the presumption of the parties complained against, and treated the
pricker as a common cheat.[72]

[Footnote 72: Fountainhall's "Decisions," vol. i. p. 15.]

