  In other times I might have made
    For those wild lands where growls the grisly,
  Have tracked him (with some native aid)
    And held a broken-hearted Bisley;
  Now that my Maud has murmured, "Nay,"
    Shrinking from matrimony's tight knot,
  I might have acted thus, I say
    (Contrariwise, I might not).

  In any case to-day I shrink
    From thus evading Sorrow's trammels;
  A sense of duty bids me think
    How costly are the larger mammals;
  To kill them just to soothe my mind
    Would seem to savour of the wasteful,
  A thing all patriot poets find
    Exceedingly distasteful.

  Not mine the immemorial cure;
    The voice of conscience warns me off it;
  I'll leave the following of the spoor
    To those who follow it for profit;
  I feel they would not thank me for
    Turning the jungle to a shambles,
  Who speculate in lions or
    Have elephantine gambles.

  And so this poet will not roam;
    Remaining on his native heath, he
  Will seek an anodyne at home,
    Nor look beyond the Thames for Lethe;
  And if he fades away, denied
    The usual balm in cardiac crises,
  Say only this of him, "He died
    A prey to soaring prices."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

HOW TO ACT IN EMERGENCIES.

The Weekly Dispatch symposium, in which various celebrities discuss the way to act in the event
of a burglar being found in the house, shows the need for a little advice in case of emergencies.
We append the following very helpful hints:--

The old plan of offering a burglar a cigarette and asking him to take a chair while you telephone
to the police is not now so successful as in the past. The best plan is to tackle the fellow
right away. For this purpose you should step behind him, take hold of his coat and force it
over his face. Then tie his left arm to his right leg across the back. Properly carried out,
this method rarely fails.

       *       *       *       *       *

To attract the attention of the young lady behind a post-office counter, fire a revolver three
times in succession, using blank cartridges. After first aid has been rendered to the attendants
step up to the counter and purchase your stamp.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you should be knocked down by a taxi, don't be alarmed and try to creep out from under the
thing. And don't blame the driver. Apologise to him, and, as you are being carried away, shake
hands and tell him that while it was his cab it was your fault. Treated in this manner, drivers
are not nearly so offensive when they knock you down the next time.

       *       *       *       *       *

Should the telephone-bell ring in your house, don't get excited. Keep calm. Remember General
GRANT. Remove the women and children to a place of safety, lift off the receiver and say, "Good
Heavens! Whoever can it be?"

       *       *       *       *       *

Let us suppose that you are being attacked by a man with a chopper. Wait until the weapon is
well poised over your head. Just as he begins the down stroke step aside smartly. The hatchet
will then be found buried in the ground. This means that bygones are bygones.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

PETER AND JUDY.

Except for the fact that they had different sets of parents and were born some hundred miles
apart, Peter and Judy are practically twins. Consequently, after an interval of three months,
strenuous efforts were made by the two young mothers to bring about a proper introduction between
the two wonders.

The occasion was to be one of great importance, for it was Judy's very first tea-party, marking,
as it were, the dawn of her social career. For days the post-office wrestled with the correspondence
necessary to bring about the meeting. The mothers, both in person and by proxy, had scoured
the precincts of Kensington and Oxford Street respectively for the necessary adornments to
do their offspring justice, changing their minds so often that the assistants came to take
as much interest in the party as if they were going to it themselves.

And yet, when the great moment arrived and the strong silent man was borne into the room, round-eyed
and expectant, he found his hostess already tired out with her first tea-party and fast asleep.
He could scarcely believe his eyes; nor could Judy's scandalised father.

Peter was very good about it. He bore this chilly reception stoically, deprecating any desire
to wake the sleeping beauty--deprecating, in fact, any interest in her or her cot whatsoever.
Ignoring the efforts of the Big People to fix his attention by pointing him directly at the
main object of the tea-party (they should have known that babies like looking the other way
always) he remained passively interested in a fascinating brass knob, the while getting his
gloves into a satisfactory state of succulence before the Big People should take it on themselves
to remove them.

At last his patience is rewarded. The hostess, sighing sleepily, is beginning to show signs
of realising her responsibilities. Two immense arms, two enormous fistfuls of fingers gather
her up and she is borne through the air triumphantly.... Peter and Judy are introduced.

I doubt whether any two people in this world ever displayed greater indifference. Solemnly
they turn their eyes upon every other object in the room except each other. It is not until
the number of permutations in which two people can look at everything is exhausted mathematically
that their eyes meet at last.

Then they cut each other dead.

       *       *       *       *       *

Side by side they recline on the couch. Judy, pouting with sleep, is buffeting her face with
her little white boxing-gloves, while Peter stares fascinated at the fire, quite sure that
social functions are not in his line. "O-o!"

With only three months' experience, Judy has not yet attained complete mastery of the art of
manipulating difficult things like limbs. Inadvertently, and in excess of zeal to kick higher
than any other baby, she has landed out a beautiful backhander and caught Peter hard in the
tummy. Peter's eyes open wide. Creases appear on his face and widen. A cavern opens and a roar
follows:--

"Ya--o-o!"

"Hullo!" (Judy looks up in amazement, for there is only one noise in the house like that, and
she has the sole rights of it). "Hullo, is that me? I didn't know I was doing it"--(the roars
from Peter continue)--"but I suppose I am. I must be. Let's have a lot more of this very good
noise I am making--Ya--o-o!"

The duet produces a crescendo astounding to them both, for there has never been a noise so
wonderful as this in all their experience. Then to Judy a very strange thing happens. She pauses
for breath, but the noise goes on. "This is amazing--how do I do it?..."

She joins in again--and then Peter stops. He too is puzzled vaguely. However, bother introspection,
the concert proceeds, both artists doing their level best. Now one of them pauses, now the
other, and at length serious doubts begin to creep in. There is something queer afoot-- something....

The matter resolves itself. Turning suddenly they behold each other, both yelling splendidly.
Amazement! Cavern confronts cavern! Face to face they roar their hardest, demanding the reason
for this strange phenomenon, "this other me who does when I don't."

They pause--their mouths remain agape. Slowly they close and smiles succeed. Joy! A reasonable-sized
face at last. What a relief after the enormous faces, the great mouths, the Cyranese noses
of the Big People who are wont to come and peer. Here at last is a true face, a face that--no,
they both agree not to dwell unduly on the discovery.

Indifferent to each other once again they regard the special objects of their attention, their
hands waving gently in the air, seeking the fairies that babies' hands are always trying to catch.

Ha! their hands have met.

"Hoo! It's a reasonable hand. It's got proper fingers, not stumps of bananas."

"Moreover," says Peter politely, "if you care to take advantage of my offer you will find that
it is properly moistened, succulent and suitable to a baby's taste. You needn't mind; I prepared
it myself."

"Goo! Gool-gur!" All is peace and chuckles. Hand-in-hand they survey their mothers. "Our mothers,
yours--mine. Ha, ha--he, he--goo!"

The inner thoughts of the two babies may be hidden from me (I accept the punishment), but I
know--I know what the two mothers are thinking of. Twenty years hence, a paragraph in The Times:
"Peter--Judy--" Oh, you fatuous mothers!

L.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Public interest remains unabated in the remarkable occurrences at the
    poultry-house farm at Brickendon, where spirit rappings in the morse
    code have been heard for weeks past.... One question put to the spirit
    last night was 'How many people are outside?' And the reply was
    'Rorty,' which proved to be correct."--Liverpool Paper.

And possibly furnishes some clue to the identity of the spirit concerned.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

MORE INTENSIVE PRODUCTION.

  When first I learned to play the fool
    In various (unaccepted) verses
  There was, I found, one golden rule
    For poets who would line their purses.
  "If ye," it ran, "to wealth would mount,
    For silk attire would change your tatters,
  Mere quantity will never count;
    Quality is the thing that matters."

  Broadly this precept, too, was laid
    On grosser forms of human labour;
  E.g., on Jones's antique trade,
    Or Brown, the sausage-man, his neighbour;
  Until of late, throughout a land
    Reeling from strikes and "reconstruction,"
  A cry was heard on every hand,
    A clamour for "Increased Production."

  While "makers," then, gird on their might
    And merchants buzz like bees in clover;
  When Jones is sawing day and night
    And Brown shows twice his last turnover;
  Shall I not follow where they've led
    And, at the PREMIER'S invitation,
  Double my output, Mr. Ed.?--
    I look for your co-operation.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "'Oh, to be in England now that Noel's near.'

    So, one might adapt one of Kipling's lines."--Indian Paper.

What do they know of BROWNING who only KIPLING know?

       *       *       *       *       *

    "LADY wishes to travel in exquisite lingerie."--Daily Paper.

By all means; but why should she be content to wear an inferior quality when she is stationary?

       *       *       *       *       *

AT THE PLAY.

"MR. TODD'S EXPERIMENT."

A new terror--or else a new attraction--has been added to the British Drama. Mr. WALTER HACKETT
has brought the scent of the cinema across the footlights. When he wants to inform you of certain
episodes in the hero's past career, or let you know what he is doing when he is out of sight,
he throws the main stage into darkness and lights up a smaller one on which he gives you as
many as six little tabloid plays within the play.

Such a scheme has its obvious conveniences for the playwright, and should greatly simplify
the difficulties of stage-craft. Those introductory statements which are required to explain
the opening conditions and need such adroit handling will no longer be necessary. You just
put everybody wise by a series of tableaux parlants. No longer need the author worry about
the best way of conveying to his audience the details of any action that takes place off the
stage; he just turns on a playlet and there it is. Altogether, with a couple of the unities
disposed of, he ought to have a much easier time.

On the other hand he is going to have trouble with his principal stage and put his actors to
the inconvenience of playing in a painfully congested area. Thus, in Mr. Todd's Experiment,
the permanent scene was the hall of a house, with a large tapestry occupying more than half
of the wall. Lurking behind this tapestry was the stage for the tabloids, and the general company
had to crowd themselves into the remainder or wander forlornly about in the space in front
of the tapestry. The playlets again are almost bound to be just concentrated episodes, probably
elemental in theme and certainly elementary in treatment.

The excuses for their interpolation in Mr. Todd's Experiment were not marked by a very great
subtlety. There was really none for the first three, which simply relieved Mr. Todd of the
tedious recital of the hero's disillusionments in love. The next two were introduced by way
of illustrating his alleged gift of clairvoyance; and the last served frankly to fill in the
interval while the rest of the company was away at dinner. The general effect of all these
desultory little Guignols was perhaps rather cheap, and not very complimentary to the intelligence
of those of us who had outgrown a childish penchant for peep-shows.

Mr. Todd's Experiment (for I have spoken only of Mr. HACKETT'S) was to restore a blasé and
valetudinarian young man of thirty to a proper state of energy by recalling the memories of
his past loves and so reviving in him a desire to stand well in the eyes of the sex. For this
purpose he produces (1) a bunch of wood-violets to suggest (through the nose) the environment
of his first passion; (2) a specially-tipped brand of cigarettes to revive (through the mouth)
the sentiment of his second; and a gramophone record to recover (through the ear) the associations
of his third.

So well does he succeed that the hero pulls himself together, shaves off his beard, becomes
our OWEN NARES again, and sallies forth, habited for conquest, to pay calls on all the three.
From all the three he retires disillusioned, having found them as egoistic as himself, and
in the end finds solace rather shamelessly, in the love of a devoted slave who might have been
his for the taking any time in the last several years.

The matter was pleasant enough, but its interest must, I think, have left us indifferent if
it had not been for the diversion afforded by the playlets. While the idea was original, the
presentation of it seemed to have a touch of amateurishness, though I would not go so far as
to agree with the old fogey, played by Mr. FRED KERR, who pronounced the scheme to be "all
Tommy rot." With the exception of one character--the devoted slave--the lightness of the dialogue,
mildly cynical, was due not so much to its wit as to the absence of ponderable stuff. The easy
trick, so popular with the modern playwright, of letting the audience down in the middle of
a serious situation was illustrated by the hero when, being in deadly earnest, he tells every
woman in turn that she is the only woman he has ever loved.

As Mr. Todd, Mr. HOLMAN CLARK was as fresh as he always is; but Mr. OWEN NARES could hardly
hope to satisfy the exigent demands of adoration in the part of young Carrington. Who, indeed,
could sustain his reputation as a figure of romance when addressed as "Arthur-John"? Mr. FRED
KERR, who played Martin Carrington, the cantankerous uncle, cannot help being workmanlike;
but he was asked to repeat himself too much. The best performance was that of Miss MARION LORNE,
in the part of the hero's one devout lover, Fancy Phipps; her quiet sense of humour, salted
with a slight American tang, kept the whole play together.

O.S.

"TEA FOR THREE."

