PUNCH, OR THE LONDON CHARIVARI.

VOL. 156.

May 7, 1919.

CHARIVARIA.

No enthusiasm attended the recent revival of the curious May Day custom of dancing round the
snow man.

       ***

Since the Muzzling Order, says a weekly paper, fewer postmen in the West End have been bitten
by dogs. We are asked by the Dogs' Trade Union to point out that this is not due to the Muzzling
Order, but to the fact that just at present there is a fine supply of dairy-fed milkmen in
that district.

       ***

A negress has just died in South America, aged 136. It is supposed that the exodus of so many
of her descendants to London on account of the great demand for Jazz-band players was largely
responsible for hastening her end.

       ***

According to a local paper an American officer refused to stay at a seaside hotel during Easter-time
because a flea hopped on to the visitors' book whilst he was in the act of signing it. We agree
that it is certainly rather alarming when these unwelcome intruders adopt such methods of espionage
in order to discover which room one is about to occupy.

       ***

The Society of Public Analysts declares that it is impossible to tell what animal or what part
of it is contained in a sausage. We gather that it all depends on whether the beast is backed
into the machine or enticed into it with a sardine.

       ***

The British people still feel themselves the victors, so Mr. RAMSAY MACDONALD told the Vossische
Zeitung. Not Mr. MACDONALD'S fault, of course.

       ***

London butchers have protested against being compelled to sell Chilian, Brazilian, Manchurian
and other beef. A simple way to distinguish "other beef" from Manchurian beef is to offer it
to the cat. If it eats it, it is neither.

       ***

The Board of Agriculture claims that since 1914 eleven thousand persons have been taught to
make cheese. It is admitted, however, that as the result of inexperience the mortality among
young cheeses has been enormous.

       ***

The Labour Party are submitting a Motion in the House of Commons for the reduction of railway
fares. An alternative suggestion that passengers should be allowed to pay the extra shilling
or two and buy the train outright will probably be put forward.

       ***

The sum of £15,650 has just been paid for the lease of a West End flat, says a contemporary.
If this includes use of the bath, it seems a bit of a bargain.

       ***

We gather from an American newspaper that shooting for the new Mexican Presidency has commenced.

       ***

An East End fishmonger is reported to have sold fish at one penny a pound. The controlled price
being much higher, several trade rivals have offered to bear the expense of a doctor for this
man as they feel that something may be pressing on his brain.

       ***

A Berlin message indicates that the man who shot KURT EISNER has again been assassinated by
the Spartacists. This, of course, cannot be the end of the business. The last and positively
final execution of the man still rests with the German Government.

       ***

There has never been a case of rabies in Scotland, says The Evening News. This speaks well
for the bagpipes as a defensive weapon.

       ***

According to a Boston message some Americans gave Admiral WOOD, U.S. Navy, a very cool reception
the other day. In shaking hands with him they only broke seven small bones.

       ***

We are pleased to be able to say that the recently demobilised soldier who accidentally swallowed
some "plum and apple" in a London restaurant is well on the road to recovery.

       ***

The number of hot-cross-bun specialists who, since Easter, have been in receipt of unemployment
pay has not yet been disclosed for publication.

       ***

A dog has returned to its home at Walsworth after being absent for two months. It is feared
that he has been leading a double life.

       ***

"Throughout the country," says a well-known daily paper, "the hedges and trees are now budding
forth into green leaves." This, we understand, is according to precedent.

       ***

"Is your rent raised?" asks a contemporary. With difficulty, if he must know.

       ***

Newcastle Justices have extinguished eight licences for redundancy. There is no reason for
supposing that the offence was intentional.

       ***

The report that the prehistoric flint axe recently found at Ascot had been claimed by Sir FREDERICK
BANBURY, M.P., is denied. Sir FREDERICK, it appears, merely expressed warm approval of it.

       ***

The Manchester Parks Committee is considering the question of opening the Municipal Golf Links
for Sunday play. It is contended that the more anti-Sabbatarian features of the game could
be eliminated by allowing players to pick out of a bunker without penalty.

       ***

Much advice has recently appeared in the Press regarding the treatment of bites received from
mad dogs, and in consequence there is a movement on foot among Missionaries to obtain some
information regarding the best method of treating the bite of a cannibal.

       ***

A Chicago woman has been charged with attempting to shoot her husband with a jewelled and gold-handled
revolver. We are pleased to note that the American authorities are determined to put down such
ostentation.

       ***

It has come to our ears that a certain Conscientious Objector now feels so ashamed of his refusal
to fight that he has practically decided to take boxing lessons by post.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

LETTERS TO PEOPLE I DON'T KNOW.

(No answers required, thank you.)

To Count Brockdorff-Rantzau, Head of the German Peace Delegation.

The enthralling volume, entitled Preliminary Terms of Peace, on which your attention is being
engrossed at the present moment, is said to be of the same length as A Tale of Two Cities.
In other respects there is little resemblance traceable between the two works. A more striking
likeness is to be found between the present volume and a document produced (also in the neighbourhood
of Paris) by the late Prince BISMARCK in 1871. On your return home, if the fancy appeals to
you, you might, out of these two publications, construct a very readable romance and call it
Two Tales of One City. I think this would be a better name for it than Vice-Versailles.

To Signor Orlando.

Apart from our love for Italy we are, of course, naturally prejudiced in favour of a man who
got his surname from one of our own SHAKSPEARE'S heroes, and has consequently given us several
easy chances of making little As-you-like-it jokes for the Press in our simple unsophisticated
way. All the same I think you were wrong in dropping out of the Big Four like that. If every
other Allied delegate were to go off home whenever he couldn't get his own way, or whenever
he differed from President WILSON, there might be nobody left to meet the German representatives
or to sign any sort of Peace terms. The enemy might even start a Big Four of their own and
begin to talk. What should we do then? We might have to send for Marshal FOCH. I'm not sure
that in any case this wouldn't be the best plan.

But perhaps you will be back in Paris before this letter reaches you. All roads lead to Rome,
and there must be at least one that leads out of it again.

To Ferdinand, Fox.

If news of the outside world ever reaches you in your earth, and you read the discussions on
the question whether your old friend WILLIAM ought to be hanged, it can hardly have escaped
Your Nosiness that nothing is said about your own claim to similar treatment. Those who never
rightly appreciated you may imagine that you will meekly consent to forgo that claim. But,
if I know anything of your proud and princely nature, you are, on the other hand, bitterly
chagrined at the thought that you have been forgotten so soon.

To a British "Sportsman."

I have often seen you of an afternoon in war-time hanging about in groups along my workaday
street, poring over what you regarded as the vital news of the day. It was not a report of
any battle in which your brothers were fighting, and, if I had asked you breathlessly, "Who
won?" you would not have said, "The British"; you would have said, "SOLLY JOEL'S colt." You
had never seen the horse, but you had half-a-dollar of your War-bonus on him, or more probably
on one of those who also ran. To-day there are no silly battles to take up good space in your
evening print; and, better still, there is no day without its racing matter; no more curtailing
of the King of Sports to the lamentable detriment of our national horse-breeding, a subject
so close to your heart. The War is indeed well over.

And nothing can be more gratifying to you than to note the rapid progress of Reconstruction
in the domain of the Turf. In other spheres of activity there may be a million people drawing
the unemployment donation; but here there is immediate occupation for all. The New Jerusalem
has been built in a day.

To Peace.

You must not mind if, when you come at last, we treat you like an anti-climax. You see, we
let ourselves go, once for all, over the Armistice, and, though there will be plenty of celebrations
for you, we shan't forget ourselves again. There will be bands, of course, and bunting, and
we shall read the directions in the papers, and buy expensive tickets and get to our seats
early. But we shall be respectable and inarticulate this time, like the present exhibition
at the Royal Academy. Besides, we have no nice things to shout when the pageants go by, like
"Vive la Victoire!" or "Viva la Pace!" and even if we had we should all wait for somebody else
to start shouting them.

But you are not to be disappointed; we shall really be glad to welcome you, though we do it
in that strange way we have of taking everything as it comes.

I suppose you are bound to assist at your own celebrations, otherwise I should recommend you
to be content to read about them next day--about the thundering cheers, the wild enthusiasm
that swept like a flame through the vast multitudes, and how "the red glare on Skiddaw roused
the Canon (RAWNSLEY) of Carlisle."

To a Multi-Millionaire.

It must be a great satisfaction to you to see how highly the CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER appreciates
the loss which the country will sustain by your eventual decease; and that he has proposed
to increase materially the amount to be raised out of your estate as a national souvenir of
your commercial activities. Indeed you may reflect that, splendid and profitable as your life
has been, nothing in it will have become you so much as the leaving of it. With such a thought
in your mind the prospect of death should be robbed of a large proportion of its sting.

To a New Knight (Scots).

Out of the eight hundred million pounds' worth of Government material left over from the War,
of which two hundred million pounds' worth is expected to be realised in the current year,
you should have no difficulty in securing a pair of knightly spurs at quite a reasonable price.
They ought to go well with a kilt.

To the Chairman of the "Société des Bains de Mer de Monaco."

Few people can have been better pleased than you at the cessation of hostilities. During all
those terrible years the falling-off among the patrons of your world-famous bathing-establishment
must have been a source of cruel grief to you. And now there are already myriads who have washed
away the stains of war in the pellucid waves that lap your coast of azure.

Here, too, at your hospitable Board of Green Cloth there is forgetfulness of Armageddon save
when the cry of "Zéro" recalls to the convalescent British warrior the fateful hour for going
over the top.

And to think of Monte Carlo without the guttural Hun and his raucous "Dass ist mein" as he
swoops upon his disputed spoils! An Eden with the worm away!

À bientôt!

O.S.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "PUBLIC SCHOOLS' HIGH JUMP CHALLENGE CUP.--E.C. Archer
    (Merchant Taylors'), 5 ft. 4 in. (unfinished), 1."--The
    Times.

We are glad to have later advices which state that he has returned to earth safely.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Alabaster Lady's Evening Cigarette Case, lid and hinges set
    with diamonds; left in taxi."--Advt. in "The Times."

We trust the alabaster lady has by now regained her property and with it her marmoreal calm.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARRIVAL OF BLACKMAN'S WARBLER.

I am become an Authority on Birds. It happened in this way.

The other day we heard the Cuckoo in Hampshire. (The next morning the papers announced that
the Cuckoo had been heard in Devonshire--possibly a different one, but in no way superior to
ours except in the matter of its Press agent.) Well, everybody in the house said, "Did you
hear the Cuckoo?" to everybody else, until I began to get rather tired of it; and, having told
everybody several times that I had heard it, I tried to make the conversation more interesting.
So, after my tenth "Yes," I added quite casually:--

"But I haven't heard the Tufted Pipit yet. It's funny why it should be so late this year."

"Is that the same as the Tree Pipit?" said my hostess, who seemed to know more about birds
than I had hoped.

"Oh, no," I said confidently.

"What's the difference exactly?"

"Well, one is tufted," I said, doing my best, "and the other--er--climbs trees."

"Oh, I see."

"And of course the eggs are more speckled," I added, gradually acquiring confidence.

"I often wish I knew more about birds," she said regretfully. "You must tell us something about
them now we've got you here."

And all this because of one miserable Cuckoo!

"By all means," I said, wondering how long it would take to get a book about birds down from
London.

However, it was easier than I thought. We had tea in the garden that afternoon, and a bird
of some kind struck up in the plane-tree.

"There, now," said my hostess, "what's that?"

I listened with my head on one side. The bird said it again.

"That's the Lesser Bunting," I said hopefully.

"The Lesser Bunting," said an earnest-looking girl; "I shall always remember that."

I hoped she wouldn't, but I could hardly say so. Fortunately the bird lesser-bunted again,
and I seized the opportunity of playing for safety.

"Or is it the Sardinian White-throat?" I wondered. "They have very much the same note during
the breeding season. But of course the eggs are more speckled," I added casually.

And so on for the rest of the evening. You see how easy it is.

However the next afternoon a most unfortunate occurrence occurred. A real Bird Authority came
to tea. As soon as the information leaked out I sent up a hasty prayer for bird-silence until
we had got him safely out of the place; but it was not granted. Our feathered songster in the
plane-tree broke into his little piece.

"There," said my hostess--"there's that bird again." She turned to me. "What did you say it was?"

I hoped that the Authority would speak first, and that the others would then accept my assurance
that they had misunderstood me the day before; but he was entangled at that moment in a watercress
sandwich, the loose ends of which were still waiting to be tucked away.

I looked anxiously at the girl who had promised to remember, in case she wanted to say something,
but she also was silent. Everybody was silent except that miserable bird.

Well, I had to have another go at it. "Blackman's Warbler," I said firmly.

"Oh, yes," said my hostess.

"Blackman's Warbler; I shall always remember that," lied the earnest-looking girl.

The Authority, who was free by this time, looked at me indignantly.

"Nonsense," he said; "it's the Chiff-chaff."

Everybody else looked at me reproachfully. I was about to say that "Blackman's Warbler" was
the local name for the Chiff-chaff in our part of Flint, when the Authority spoke again.

"The Chiff-chaff," he said to our hostess with an insufferable air of knowledge.

I wasn't going to stand that.

"So I thought when I heard it first," I said, giving him a gentle smile.

It was now the Authority's turn to get the reproachful looks.

"Are they very much alike?" my hostess asked me, much impressed.

"Very much. Blackman's Warbler is often mistaken for the Chiff-chaff, even by so-called experts"--and
I turned to the Authority and added, "Have another sandwich, won't you?"--"and particularly
so, of course, during the breeding season. It is true that the eggs are more speckled, but--"

"Bless my soul," said the Authority, but it was easy to see that he was shaken, "I should think
I know a Chiff-chaff when I hear one."

"Ah, but do you know a Blackman's Warbler? One doesn't often hear them in this country. Now
in Switzerland--"

The bird said "Chiff-chaff" again with an almost indecent plainness of speech.

"There you are!" I said triumphantly. "Listen," and I held up a finger. "You notice the difference?
Obviously a Blackman's Warbler."

Everybody looked at the Authority. He was wondering how long it would take to get a book about
birds down from London, and deciding that it couldn't be done that afternoon. Meanwhile "Blackman's
Warbler" sounded too much like the name of something to be repudiated. For all he had caught
of our mumbled introduction I might have been Blackman myself.

"Possibly you're right," he said reluctantly.

Another bird said "Chiff-chaff" from another tree, and I thought it wise to be generous. "There,"
I said, "now that was a Chiff-chaff."

The earnest-looking girl remarked (silly creature) that it sounded just like the other one,
but nobody took any notice of her. They were all busy admiring me.

Of course I mustn't meet the Authority again, because you may be pretty sure that when he got
back to his books he looked up Blackman's Warbler and found that there was no such animal.
But if you mix in the right society and only see the wrong people once it is really quite easy
to be an authority on birds--or, I imagine, on anything else.

A.A.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

"HONOURS."

(BY A CYNIC.)

  A DUKEDOM, GRAND OR OTHERWISE,
  NO LONGER IS AN ENVIED PRIZE
  WHEN EVERY DAY SOME FIERCE COMMISSION
  CLAMOURS FOR DUCAL INHIBITION.
  THE STYLE OF MARQUESS--THUSWISE SPELT--
  IS PICTURESQUE, BUT, LIKE THE BELT
  OF EARLDOM, CANNOT LONG ABIDE
  OR STEM THE DEMOCRATIC TIDE.
  VISCOUNTIES STAND TO CHEER AND BLESS
  THE LABOURS OF THE PURPLE PRESS,
  AND BARONIES, ONCE HELD BY ROBBERS,
  ARE GIVEN TO PATRIOTIC JOBBERS.
  UNCOMPROMISING MALEDICTION
  RESTS ON THE BARONETS OF FICTION;
  IN ACTUAL LIFE THEY SERVE TO LINK
  A PARTY WITH THE STREET OF INK;
  WHILE KNIGHTHOOD'S LATEST HONOURS FALL
  UPON THE FUNNIEST MEN OF ALL.
  YES, WHILE OUR GRATITUDE ACCLAIMS
  THE JUSTLY DECORATED NAMES
  OF PEERS LIKE TENNYSON AND LISTER,
  THERE IS MUCH VIRTUE IN PLAIN MISTER.
  THE STYLE AND TITLE DEEMED MOST FIT
  BY DARWIN, HUXLEY, BURKE AND PITT,
  AND LATER ON BY A.J.B.,
  ARE MORE THAN GOOD ENOUGH FOR ME.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DOMESTIC QUESTION SOLVED.

LAST THURSDAY, AT A REGISTRY-OFFICE, I OBTAINED THE FAVOUR OF AN INTERVIEW WITH A DOMESTIC
ARTIST AND WAS ABLE (BY REASON OF A PREVIOUS CONFERENCE WITH MY FRIEND FRESHFIELD--LIKE MYSELF
A DEMOBILISED BACHELOR AUTHOR) TO FACE THE ORDEAL WITH SOME DEGREE OF CONFIDENCE.

MRS. MILTON, WIDOW, FIFTY-FIVE, EXCEPTIONAL REFERENCES, WHO PROPOSED, IF EVERYTHING ABOUT ME
SEEMED SATISFACTORY, TO RULE MY HOUSEHOLD, WAS AS SUAVE AS ONE HAS ANY RIGHT TO EXPECT NOWADAYS;
BUT WHEN SHE DICTATED THE TERMS I GATHERED THAT SHE WOULD BE SUFFICIENTLY DANGEROUS IF ROUSED.

SHE KNEW WHAT BACHELORS WERE, SHE DID, AND WASN'T GOING TO TAKE A PLACE WHERE A LOT OF COMP'NY
WAS KEPT.

I ASSURED HER ON THIS POINT. MY FRIEND, MR. FRESHFIELD, I SAID, WOULD COME ONCE A WEEK, EVERY
MONDAY, TO DINE AND SLEEP, BUT BEYOND THAT I SHOULD PUT NO STRAIN UPON HER POWERS OF ENTERTAINMENT.

MRS. MILTON FURTHER SAID THAT SHE WOULD REQUIRE AT LEAST TWO AFTERNOONS AND ONE EVENING A WEEK.
HERE WAS MY OPPORTUNITY TO APPEAR GENEROUS.

"TWO AFTERNOONS AND ONE EVENING?" I SAID. "MY DEAR FRIEND AND FELLOW-WORKER, YOU CAN HAVE EVERY
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY FROM AFTER BREAKFAST ON THE FORMER TO PRACTICALLY DINNER-TIME (EIGHT
O'CLOCK) ON THE LATTER. NO QUESTIONS WILL BE ASKED OF YOU OR OF THE PIANO OR GRAMOPHONE, BOTH
OF WHICH INSTRUMENTS YOU WILL FIND IN SMOOTH RUNNING ORDER. I AM AWAY," I ADDED, "EVERY WEDNESDAY
AND THURSDAY."

THAT CLINCHED IT. HIDING HER SURPRISE AS WELL AS SHE COULD UNDER AN IRREPROACHABLE BONNET AND
TOUPEE, MRS. MILTON EXPRESSED HER READINESS TO ACCOMPANY ME THEN AND THERE, AND TO SUPERINTEND
THE DISAPPEARANCE OF MY COALS AND MARMALADE.

PERHAPS YOU HAVE GUESSED THAT I PROPOSE TO SPEND EVERY WEDNESDAY NIGHT AT FRESHFIELD'S PLACE,
AND THAT THE COMPLETE SUCCESS OF THE SCHEME HAS BEEN ASSURED BY THE MAKING OF A SIMILAR AGREEMENT
BETWEEN FRESHFIELD AND A PERSON HOLDING CORRESPONDING VIEWS TO THOSE OF MRS. MILTON.

THUS FRESHFIELD AND I HAVE EACH SECURED THE FULL SEVEN DAYS' ATTENDANCE BY A DEVICE PLEASING
TO ALL CONCERNED. AFTER LOCKING UP THE MELBA AND GEORGE ROBEY RECORDS ON WEDNESDAY MORNINGS
AND WITH THE KNOWLEDGE THAT THE PIANO IS PAST SERIOUS INJURY, I DEPART FOR FRESHFIELD'S (VIÂ
THE CLUB FOR LUNCH) EACH WEEK WITH A LIGHT HEART.

MY COLLABORATOR IS ALL FOR KEEPING THIS SOLUTION OF A HARASSING PROBLEM TO OURSELVES. I SAY
"NO." THE GENERAL ADOPTION OF SUCH A SCHEME, WITH ALTERATIONS TO SUIT INDIVIDUAL CASES, WOULD,
I THINK, BE A NAIL IN THE COFFIN OF BOLSHEVISM IN THE HOME.

       *       *       *       *       *

    MR. WILSON RUBS IT IN.

    "THE ECHO DE PARIS SAYS, 'MR. WILSON BELIEVES HE CAN PLAY
    THE RÔLE OF THE POPES OF THE MIDDLE AGES. IN THE ÉCLAT OF
    HIS PUBLIC MESSAGES HE TRIES TO SET PEOPLES AGAINST
    GOVERNMENTS.'"--SCOTS PAPER.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GENERAL MONASH MAKING AN IMPOSING FIGURE ON HIS GREY
    HORSE, WHERE HE RODE WITH GENERAL HOBBS AND THREE
    BRIGADIERS."--TIMES.

THE R.S.P.C.A. MUST LOOK INTO THIS.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "GOLF BATTLE OF THE SEXES.

    THE LATEST JACK JOHNSON STORY IS THAT HE IS TRAINING IN MEXICO
    CITY FOR A SERIES OF FIGHTS, WHICH WILL TAKE PLACE IN THE
    BULL-RING.

    LADIES: MISS CECIL LEITCH, MISS CHUBB, MISS BARRY, MRS.
    MCNAIR, MRS. JILLARD, MRS. F.W. BROWN, MISS JONES PARKER AND
    MRS. WILLOCK POLLEN."--DAILY SKETCH.

WE ARE RATHER SORRY FOR MASSA JOHNSON.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CHURCH AND PEACE.

The acquiescence of the Coventry Peace Celebration Committee in the Bishop of COVENTRY'S view
that the Lady GODIVA of their pageant should be fully clothed is leading not only to many innovations
in the representations of history all over the country, but to a recrudescence of ecclesiastical
power which is affording the liveliest satisfaction to Lord HUGH CECIL.

For already several other divines have followed suit. It is agreeable, for example, to the
very reasonable wishes of the DEAN and Chapter of Westminster that the Westminster Peace Celebration
Committee have decided that NELL GWYNN shall either be excluded from the Whitehall procession
altogether or shall figure as a Mildmay deaconess.

Acting under the influence of a local curate, the Athelney Peace Celebration Committee have
unanimously resolved that in these hard times, when (as the curate pointed out) food is not
too plentiful, it would be better if KING ALFRED cooked the cakes properly and they were afterwards
distributed.

So many watering-places claim CANUTE as their own that he may be expected to be multiplied
exceedingly in the approaching Peace revels; but from more than one Pastoral Letter it may
be gathered that the Episcopal Bench is very wisely in favour of the King's retirement from
the margin of the ocean before his shoes are actually wet. It is held that in these days of
leather-shortage and the need for economy no risks should be run with footwear.

Other laudable efforts in the direction of economy are to be made, again through the earnest
solicitude of the Establishment, in connection with the impersonation of Sir WALTER RALEIGH
and KING JOHN. With the purpose of saving Sir WALTER'S cloak from stain and possible injury
the puddle at QUEEN ELIZABETH'S feet will be only a painted one, while, owing to the exorbitant
price of laundry-work at the moment, it has been arranged that only a few of KING JOHN'S more
negligible articles shall be consigned to the Wash.

       *       *       *       *       *

    HUN DUPLICITY IN PARIS.

    "Count von Brockdorff-Rantzau replied simply, pointing to
    Herr Dandsbery and saying: 'I present to you Herr
    Landsberg.'"--The Star.

       *       *       *       *       *

HOME FATIGUES.

  How oft I tried by smart intrigue
    To do the British Army,
  And dodge each rightly-termed Fatigue
    Which nearly drove me barmy.
  In vain! Whoever else they missed
  My name was always on the list.

  And so, while other minds were set
    On smashing Jerry Bosch up
  With rifle, bomb and bayonet,
    I chiefly learned to wash-up,
  To peel potatoes by the score,
  Sweep out a room and scrub the floor.

  Thus, now that I have left the ranks,
    The plain unvarnished fact is
  That through those three rough years, and thanks
    To very frequent practice,
  I, who was once a nascent snob,
  Am master of the menial's job.

  To-day I count this no disgrace
    When "maids" have gone to blazes,
  But take our late Eliza's place
    And win my lady's praises,
  As she declares in grateful mood
  The Army did me worlds of good.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MUD LARKS.

"So," said Albert Edward, "I clapped him on the back and said, 'You were at Geelong College
in 1910, and your name's Cazenove, isn't it?'"

"To which he made reply, 'My name's Jones and I never heard of Geewhizz,' and knocked you down
and trod on you for your dashed familiarity," said the Babe.

"Nothing of the sort. He was delighted to meet me again--de-lighted. He's coming to munch with
us tomorrow evening, by the way, so you might sport the tablecloth for once, William old dear,
and tell the cook to put it across Og, the fatted capon, and generally strive to live down
your reputation as the worst Mess President the world has ever seen. You will, I know--for
my sake."

Next morning, when I came down to breakfast, I found a note from him saying that he had gone
to the Divisional Races with his dear old college chum, Cazenove; also the following addenda:--

"P.S.--If William should miss a few francs from the Mess Fund tell him I will return it fourfold
ere night. I am on to a sure thing.

"P.P.S.--If MacTavish should raise a howl about his fawn leggings, tell him I have borrowed
them for the day as I understand there will be V.A.D.'s present, and noblesse oblige."

At a quarter past eight that night he returned, accompanied by a pleasant-looking gunner subaltern,
whom we gathered to be the Cazenove person. I say "gathered," for Albert Edward did not trouble
to introduce the friend of his youth, but, flinging himself into a chair, attacked his food
in a sulky silence which endured all through the repast. Mr. Cazenove, on the other hand, was
in excellent form. He had spent a beautiful day, he said, and didn't care who knew it. A judge
of horseflesh from the cradle, he had spotted the winner every time, backed his fancy like
a little man and had been very generously rewarded by the Totalizator. He was contemplating
a trip to Brussels in a day or so. Was his dear old friend Albert Edward coming?

His "dear old friend" (who was eating his thumb-nails instead of his savoury) scowled and said
he thought not.

The gunner wagged his head sagely. "Ah, well, old chap, if you will bet on horses which roar
like a den of lions you must take the consequences."

Albert Edward writhed. "That animal used to win sprints in England; do you know that?"

Mr. Cazenove shrugged his shoulders.

"He may have thirty years ago. All I'd back him to win now would be an old-age pension. Well,
I warned you, didn't I?"

Albert Edward lost control. "When I'm reduced to taking advice on racing form from a Tasmanian
I'll chuck the game and hie me to a monkery. Why, look at that bit of bric-à-brac you were
riding to-day; a decent God-fearing Australian wouldn't be seen dead in a ten-acre paddock
with it."

Mr. Cazenove spluttered even more furiously. "That's a dashed good horse I'll have you know."

"I am not alluding to his morals, but to his appearance," said Albert Edward; "I've seen better-looking
hat-racks."

"I'd back him to lick the stuffing out of anything you've got in this unit, anyway," Cazenove
snorted.

"Don't be rash, Charlie," Albert Edward warned; "your lucky afternoon has gone to your head.
Why, I've got an old mule here could give that boneshaker two stone and beat him by a furlong
in five."

The gunner sprang to his feet. "Done with you!" he roared. "Done with you here and now!"

Albert Edward appeared to be somewhat taken back. "Don't be silly, man," he soothed. "It's
pitch dark outside and cut up with trenches. Sit down and have some more of this rare old port,
specially concocted for us by the E.F.C."

But Mr. Cazenove was thoroughly aroused. "You're hedging," he sneered; "you're scared."

"Nonsense," said Albert Edward. "I have never known what fear is--not since the Armistice,
anyhow. I am one of the bravest men I have ever met. What are you doing with all that money?"

"Putting it down for you to cover," said Cazenove firmly.

Albert Edward sighed. "All right, then, if you will have it so. William, old bean, I'm afraid
I shall have to trouble you for a trifle more out of the Mess Fund. Noblesse oblige, you know."

MacTavish and the Babe departed with the quest to prepare his mount for the ordeal, while Albert
Edward and I sought out Ferdinand and Isabella, our water-cart pair. Isabella was fast asleep,
curled up like a cat and purring pleasantly, but Ferdinand was awake, meditatively gnawing
through the wood-work of his stall. With the assistance of the line-guard we saddled and bridled
him; but at the stable door he dug his toes in. It was long past his racing hours, he gave
us to understand, and his union wouldn't permit it. He backed all round the standings, treading
on recumbent horses, tripping over bails, knocking uprights flat and bringing acres of tin
roofing clattering down upon our heads, Isabella encouraging him with ringing fanfares of applause.

At length we roused out the grooms and practically carried him to the starting-point.

"You've been the devil of a time," William grumbled. "Cazenove's been waiting for twenty minutes.
See that light over there? That's where MacTavish is. He's the winning-post. Keep straight
down the mud-track towards it and you'll be all right. Don't swing sideways or you'll get bunkered.
Form line. Come up the mule. Back, Cazenove, back! Steady. Go!"

The rivals clapped heels to their steeds and were swallowed up in the night. I looked at my
watch, the hands pointed to 10.30 exactly. William and I lit cigarettes and waited. At 10.42
MacTavish walked into us, his lamp had given out and he wanted a new battery.

"Who won?" we inquired.

"Won?" he asked. "They haven't started yet, have they?"

"Left here about ten minutes ago," said William. "Do you mean to say you've seen nothing of them?"

At that moment two loud voices, accompanied by the splash of liquid and the crash of tin, struck
our ears from different points of the compass.

"Sounds to me as if somebody had found a watery grave over to the left," said the Babe.

"Sounds to me as if somebody had returned to stables over to the right," said I.

We trotted away to investigate. 'Twas as I thought; Ferdinand had homed to his Isabella and
was backing round the standings once more, trailing the infuriated Albert Edward after him,
sheets of corrugated iron falling about them like leaves in Vallombrosa.

"Bolted straight in here and scraped me off against the roof," panted the latter. "Suppose
the confounded apple-fancier won ages ago, didn't he?"

"He's upside down in the Tuning Fork trench system at the present moment," said I. "The Babe
and the grooms are digging him out. If you hurry up you'll win yet."

We roused out the guard, bore the reluctant Ferdinand back to the course and by eleven o'clock
had restarted him. At 11.10 William returned to report that the digging party had salved the
Cazenove pair and got them going again.

"Too late," said I; "Albert Edward must have won in a walk by now. He left here at..."

The resounding clatter of falling sheet-iron cut short my words. Ferdinand had, it appeared,
returned to stables once more.

Suddenly something hurtled out of the gloom and crashed into us. It was the Babe.

"What's the matter now? Where are you going?" we asked.

"Wire-cutters, quick!" he gasped and hurtled onwards towards the saddle-room.

"Hello there!" came the hail of MacTavish from up the course. "I s-say, what about this blessed
race? I'm f-f-rozen s-s-tiff out here. I'm about f-f-fed up, I t-tell you."

William groaned. "As if we all weren't!" he protested. "If all the Mess Funds for the next
three weeks weren't involved I'd make the silly fools chuck it. Here, you, run and tell Albert
Edward to get a move on."

I found Ferdinand rapidly levelling the remainder of the standings, playing his jockey at the
end of his reins as a fisherman plays a salmon.

"This cursed donkey won't steer at all," Albert Edward growled. "Sideslips all over the place
like a wet tyre. Has Cazenove won yet?"

"Not yet," said I. "He's wound up in the Switch Line wire entanglements now. The Babe and the
wrecking gang are busy chopping him out. There's still time."

"Then drag Isabella out in front of this brute," said he. "Quick, man, quick!"

At 11.43, by means of a brimming nose-bag, I had enticed Isabella forth, and the procession
started in the following order: First, myself, dragging Isabella and dangling the bait. Secondly,
Isabella. Thirdly, the racers, Ferdinand and Albert Edward, the latter belting Isabella with
a surcingle whenever she faltered. Lastly, the line-guard, speeding Ferdinand with a doubled
stirrup-leather. We toiled down the mud. track at an average velocity of .25 m.p.h., halting
occasionally for Isabella to feed and the line-guard to rest his arm. I have seen faster things
in my day.

Then, just as we were arriving at our journey's end we collided with another procession. It
was the wrecking gang, laden with the implements of their trade (shovels, picks, wire-cutters,
ropes, planks, waggon-jacks, etc.), and escorting in their midst Mr. Cazenove and his battered
racehorse. Both competitors immediately claimed the victory:--

"Beaten you this time, Albert Edward, old man."... "On the contrary, Charles, old chap, I won
hands down."... "But, my good fellow, I've been here for hours."... "My dear old thing, I've
been here all night!"... "Do be reasonable."... "Don't be absurd."

"Oh, dry up, you two, and leave it to the winning-post to decide," said William.

"By the way, where is the winning-post?"

"The winning-post," we echoed. "Yes, where is he?"

"Begging your pardon, Sir," came the voice of the Mess orderly, "but if you was referring to
Mister MacTavish he went home to bed half-an-hour ago."

PATLANDER.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "A sub-department of Scotland Yard ... which looks after Kings
    and visiting potentates, Cabinet Ministers and Suffragettes,
    spies, anarchists, and other 'undesirables.'"--Daily Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The custodian smothered the ball, and after a Ruby scrimmage
    the City goal escaped."--Provincial Paper.
A much prettier word than the other.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Teacher (juniors); £1 monthly."--Advt. in Liverpool Paper.

Who says there are no prizes in the teaching profession?

       *       *       *       *       *

  REVANCHE.

  When I had seen ten thousand pass me by
    And waved my arms and wearied of hallooing,
  "Ho, taxi-meter! Taxi-meter, hi!"
    And they hied on and there was nothing doing;
  When I was sick of counting dud by dud
    Bearing I know not whom--or coarse carousers,
  Or damsels fairer than the moss-rose bud--
  And still more sick at having bits of mud
      Daubed on my new dress-trousers;

  I went to dinner by the Underground
    And every time the carriage stopped or started
  Clung to my neighbour very tightly round
    The neck till at Sloane Square his collar parted.
  I saw my hostess glancing at my socks,
    Surprised perhaps at so much clay's adherence
  And, still unnerved by those infernal shocks,
  Said, "I was working in my window-box;
      Excuse my soiled appearance."

  But in the morn I found a silent square
    And one tall house with all the windows shuttered,
  The mansion of the Marquis of Mayfair,
    And "Here shall be the counter-stroke," I muttered;
  "Shall not the noble Marquis and his kin
    Make feast to-night in his superb refectory,
  And then go on to see 'The Purple Sin'?
  They shall." I sought a taxi-garage in
      The Telephone Directory.

  "Ho, there!" I cried within the wooden hutch;
    "Hammersmith House--a most absurd dilemma--
  His lordship's motor-cars have strained a clutch,
    And taxis are required at 8 pip emma
  (Six of your finest and most up-to-date,
    With no false starts and no foul petrol leaking),
  To bear a certain party of the great
  To the Melpomene at ten past eight.
      Thompson, the butler, speaking."

  They came. And I at the appointed hour
    Watched them arrive before the muted dwelling
  And heard some speeches full of pith and power
    And saw them turn and go with anger swelling;
  Save only one who, spite his rude dismay,
    Like a whipped Hun, made traffic of his sorrow
  And shouted, "Taxi, Sir?" I answered "Nay,
  I do not need you, jarvey, but I may
      Be disengaged to-morrow."

  EVOE.

       *       *       *       *       *

    THE PUNISHMENT OF GREED.

    "Large quantity of new Block Chocolate offered cheap; cause
    ill-health."--Manchester Evening News.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Miss M. Albanesi, daughter of the well-known singer, Mme.
    Albanesi."--Daily Paper.

Not to be confused with Mme. ALBANI, the popular novelist.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The Portuguese retreated a step. His head flew to his
    hip-pocket. But he was a fraction of a second too late."--The
    Scout.

Many a slip 'twixt the head and the hip.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

Tuesday, April 29th.--When the House of Commons re-assembled this afternoon a good many gaps
were noticeable on the green benches. They were not due, however, to the New Year's Honours,
which made a belated appearance this morning, for not a single Member of Parliament has been
ennobled. The notion that not one of the seven hundred is worthy of elevation is, of course,
unthinkable. But by-elections are so chancy.

Mr. JEREMIAH MACVEAGH still has some difficulty in realising that the Irish centre of gravity
has shifted from Westminster to Dublin. He indignantly refused to accept an answer to one of
his questions from little Mr. PRATT, and loudly demanded the corporeal presence of the CHIEF
SECRETARY. Mr. MACPHERSON, however, considers that his duty requires him to remain in Ireland,
where Mr. MACVEAGH'S seventy Sinn Fein colleagues are keeping him sufficiently busy.

In explaining the swollen estimates of the Ministry of Labour, Sir ROBERT HORNE pointed out
that it is now charged with the functions formerly appertaining to half-a-dozen other Departments.
He has indeed become a sort of administrative Pooh-Bah. Unlike that functionary, however, he
was not "born sneering." On the contrary, he made a most sympathetic speech, chiefly devoted
to justifying the much-abused unemployment donation, which accounts for twenty-five out of
the thirty-eight millions to be spent by his Department this year. But let no one mistake him
for a mere HORNE of Plenty, pouring out benefits indiscriminately upon the genuine unemployed
and the work-shy. He has already deprived some seventeen thousand potential domestics of their
unearned increment, and he promises ruthless prosecution of all who try to cheat the State
in future.

Criticism was largely silenced by the Minister's frankness. Sir F. BANBURY, of course, was
dead against the whole policy, and demanded the immediate withdrawal of the civilian grants;
but his uncompromising attitude found little favour. Mr. CLYNES thought it would have been
better for the State to furnish work instead of doles, but did not explain how in that case
private enterprise was to get going. France's experience with the ateliers nationaux is not
encouraging, though 1919, when "demobbed" subalterns turn up their noses at £250 a year, is
not 1848.

Wednesday, April 30th.--Mr. AUSTEN CHAMBERLAIN, returning to the Exchequer after an interval
of thirteen years, made a much better Budget speech than one would have expected. It was longer,
perhaps, than was absolutely necessary. Like the late Mr. GLADSTONE, he has a tendency to digress
into financial backwaters instead of sticking to the main Pactolian stream. His excursus upon
the impracticability of a levy on capital was really redundant, though it pleased the millionaires
and reconciled them to the screwing-up of the death-duties. Still, on the whole, he had a more
flattering tale to unfold than most of us had ventured to anticipate, and he told it well,
in spite of an occasional confusion in his figures. After all, it must be hard for a Chancellor
who left the national expenditure at a hundred and fifty millions and comes back to find it
multiplied tenfold not to mistake millions for thousands now and again.

On the whole the Committee was well pleased with his performance, partly because the gap between
revenue and expenditure turned out to be a mere trifle of two hundred millions instead of twice
or thrice that amount; partly because there was, for once, no increase in the income-tax; but
chiefly, I think, for the sentimental reason that in recommending a tiny preference for the
produce of the Dominions and Dependencies Mr. CHAMBERLAIN was happily combining imperial interests
with filial affection.

Almost casually the CHANCELLOR announced that the Land Values Duties, the outstanding feature
of Mr. LLOYD GEORGE'S famous Budget of 1909, were, with the approval of their author, to be
referred to a Select Committee, to see if anything could be made of them. If only Mr. ASQUITH
had thought of that device when his brilliant young lieutenant first propounded them! There
would have been no quarrel between the two Houses: the Parliament Act would never have been
passed, and a Home Rule Act, for which nobody in Ireland has a good word, would not now be
reposing on the Statute-Book.

In the absence of any EX-CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER the task of criticism was left to Mr.
ADAMSON, who was mildly aggressive and showed a hankering after a levy on capital, not altogether
easy to reconcile with his statement that no responsible Member of the Labour Party desired
to repudiate the National Debt. Mr. JESSON, a National Democrat, was more original and stimulating.
As a representative of the Musicians' Union he is all for harmony, and foresees the time when
Capital and Labour shall unite their forces in one great national orchestra, under the directing
baton of the State.

At the instance of Lord STRACHIE the House of Lords conducted a spirited little debate on the
price of milk. It appears that there is a conflict of jurisdiction between the FOOD-CONTROLLER
and the MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE, and that the shortage in the supply of this commodity must
be ascribed to the overlapping of the Departments.

Thursday, May 1st.--Sinn Fein has decreed that nobody in Ireland should do any work on May
Day. Messrs. DEVLIN and MACVEAGH, however, being out of the jurisdiction, demonstrated their
independence by being busier than ever. The appointment of a new Press Censor in Ireland furnished
them with many opportunities at Question-time for the display of their wit, which some of the
new Members seemed to find passably amusing.

Mr. DEVLIN'S best joke was, however, reserved for the Budget debate, when, in denouncing the
further burdens laid on stout and whisky, he declared that Ireland was, "apart from political
trouble," the most peaceful country in the world.

The fiscal question always seems to invite exaggeration of statement. The CHANCELLOR'S not
very tremendous Preference proposals were denounced by Sir DONALD MACLEAN as inevitably leading
to the taxation of food and to quarrels with foreign countries. Colonel AMERY, on the other
hand, waxed dithyrambic in their praise, and declared that by taking twopence off Colonial
tea the Government were not only consecrating the policy of Imperial Preference, but were "putting
the coping-stone on it."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

A CELTIC COUNTER-BLAST.

The continued domination of the Russians in the domain of the ballet has already excited a
certain amount of not unfriendly criticism. But our Muscovite visitors are not to be allowed
to have it all their own way, and we understand that negotiations are already on foot with
a view to enabling the Irish Ballet to give a season at a leading London theatre in the near
future.

The Irish Ballet, which is organised on a strictly self-determining basis, is one of the outcomes
of the Irish Theatre, but derives in its essentials directly from the school established by
Cormac, son of Art. That is to say it is in its aims, ideals and methods permeated by the Dalecarlian,
Fomorian, Brythonic and Firbolgian impulse. Mr. Fergal Dindsenchus O'Corkery, the Director,
is a direct descendant of Cuchulinn and only uses the Ulidian, dialect. Mr. Tordelbach O'Lochlainn,
who has composed most of the ballets in the répertoire, is a chieftain of mingled Dalcassian
and Gallgoidel descent. The scenery has been painted by Mr. Cathal Eochaid. MacCathamhoil,
and the dresses designed by Mr. Domnall Fothud O'Conchobar.

The artists who compose the troupe have all been trained during the War at the Ballybunnion
School in North Kerry, and combine in a wonderful way the sobriety of the Delsartean method
with the feline agility of that of Kilkenny. Headed by the bewitching Gormflaith Rathbressil,
and including such brilliant artists as Maeve Errigal, Coomhoola Grits, Ethne O'Conarchy, Brigit
Brandub, Corcu and Mocu, Diarmid Hy Brasil, Murtagh MacMurchada, Aillil Molt, Mag Mell and
Donnchad Bodb, they form a galaxy of talent which, alike for the euphony of its nomenclature
and the elasticity of its technique, has never been equalled since the days of ST. VITUS.

We have spoken of the work of Mr. O'Lochlainn, who is responsible for the three-act ballet,
Brian Boruma; a fantasy on the Brehon laws, entitled The Gardens of Goll; Poulaphuca, and the
Roaring of O'Rafferty; but the repertory also includes notable and impassioned compositions
by Ossian MacGillycuddy, Aghla Malachy, Carolan MacFirbis and Emer Sidh. The orchestra employed
differs in many respects from that to which we are accustomed, the wood-wind being strengthened
by a quartet of Firbolg flutes and two Fodlaphones, while the brass is reinforced by a bass
bosthoon, an instrument of extraordinary depth and sonority, and the percussion by a group
of Dingle drums.

But enough has been said to show that the Irish ballet is assured in advance of a cordial reception
from all admirers of the neo-Celtic genius.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A Bill has been introduced in Florida providing that 'from
    and after equal suffrage has been established in Florida
    it shall be lawful for females to don and wear the wearing
    apparel of man as now worn publicly by him.'"--Western
    Morning News.

Happily they cannot take the breeks off a Highlander.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLLABORATION.

Biddick has placed me in a most awkward position. I am a proud man; I cannot bring myself to
accept a gift of money from anybody. And yet I cannot help feeling I should be justified in
taking the guinea he has sent me.

Biddick is a journalist. I was discussing the inflation of prices and asking his advice as
to how to increase one's income. "Why not write something for the Press, my dear fellow?" he
said. "Five hundred words with a catchy title; nothing funny--that's my line--but something
solid and practical with money in it; the public's always ready for that. Take your neighbour,
old Diggles, and his mushroom-beds, for instance. Thriving local industry--capital copy. Try
your hand at half a column, and call it 'A Fortune in Fungus.'"

"I 'm afraid I know nothing about mushrooms, with the exception of the one I nearly died of,"
I replied, "and I'm not sufficiently acquainted with Mr. Diggles to venture to invite his confidence
respecting his business."

"My dear man, I don't ask you to tell Diggles you're going to write him up in the newspapers;
he'd kick you off the premises; he doesn't want his secrets given away to competitors. Just
dodge the old man round the sheds, get into conversation with his staff, keep your eyes open
generally and you'll pick up as much as you want for half a column. And when you've got your
notes together bring 'em along to me. I'll put 'em shipshape for you."

I thanked him very gratefully.

The mushroom-sheds are situated in a field some distance from my residence, and I found it
rather a fatiguing walk. After tedious watching in a cramped position through a gap in the
hedge I saw Mr. Diggles emerge from a shed and move away from my direction. I lost no time
in creeping forward under cover of my umbrella towards an employee, who was engaged in tossing
manure. I drew out my note-book and interrogated him briefly and briskly.

"Do you rear from seeds or from cuttings?" I asked him. He scratched his head and appeared
in doubt. "Are your plants self-supporting," I went on, "or do you train them on twigs? What
would be the diameter of your finest specimen?" He continued in doubt. I adopted a conversational
manner. "I suppose you'll be potting off soon? You must get very fond of your mushrooms. I
think one always gets fond of anything which demands one's whole care and attention. I wonder
if I might have a peep at your protégés?"

I edged towards the door of one of the sheds, but he made no attempt to accompany me. Instead
he put his hands to his mouth and shouted, "Hi, maister!"

Mr. Diggles promptly responded to the summons. There was no eluding him. I put my note-book
out of sight and inquired if he could oblige me with a pound of fresh-culled mushrooms. He
could, and he did. I paid him four-and-sixpence for them, the control price presumably, but
he gave me no invitation to view the growing crops. I retraced my steps without having collected
even an opening paragraph for "A Fortune in Fungus."

The next day found me again near the sheds. Mr. Diggles was nowhere in sight. I approached
unobtrusively through the hedge and accosted a small boy.

"Hulloa, my little man," I said, "what is your department in this hive of industry? You weed
the mushrooms, perhaps, or prune them?" He seemed shy and offered no answer. "Perhaps you hoe
between the plants or syringe them with insecticide?"

Still I could not win his confidence, so I tried pressing sixpence into his palm. "Between
ourselves, what are the weekly takings?" I said. He pocketed the coin and put his finger on
his lips.

"Belge," he said. Then he bolted into a shed and returned accompanied by Mr. Diggles. There
was nothing for it but to purchase another pound of mushrooms. I was no nearer "A Fortune in
Fungus" than before.

Two days later, having received apparently reliable information that Mr. Diggles was confined
to his bed with influenza, I ventured again to visit the sheds. I was advancing boldly across
the field when to my consternation he suddenly appeared from behind a hayrick. I was so startled
that I turned to fly, and in my precipitancy tripped on a tussock and fell. Mr. Diggles came
to my assistance, and, when he had helped me to my feet and brushed me down with a birch broom
he was carrying, I could do nothing less than buy another pound of his mushrooms.

I felt it was time to consult Biddick. He was sitting at his desk staring at a blank sheet
of paper. His fingers were harrowing his hair and he looked distraught.

"Excuse the interruption," I said, "but this 'Fortune in Fungus' is ruining me;" and I related
my experience.

At the finish Biddick gripped my hand and spoke with some emotion. "Dear old chap," he said,
"it's my line, after all. It's funny. If only I can do it justice;" and he shook his fountain-pen.

This morning I received a guinea and a newspaper cutting entitled "A Cadger for Copy," which
may appeal to some people's sense of humour. It makes none to mine. In the flap of the envelope
Biddick writes: "Halves, with best thanks."

Upon consideration I shall forward him a simple formal receipt.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

From a bookseller's catalogue:--

    "THE ART OF TATTING.

    This book is intended for the woman who has time to spare
    for reading, Tatting being such quick and easy work that busy
    fingers can do both at the same time."

An edition in Braille would appear to be contemplated.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE GERM.

The great Bacteriologist entered the lecture-room and ascended the platform. A murmur of astonishment
ran round the audience as they beheld, not the haggard face of a man who daily risked the possibility
of being awarded the O.B.E., but the calm and smiling countenance of one who had succeeded
where other scientists, even of Anglo-American reputation, had failed.

In an awed silence this remarkable man placed on the table a dish, somewhat like a soup-plate
in appearance, and carefully removed its glass cover.

"In this dish, gentlemen," said the Professor, "we have the Agar-Agar, which is without doubt
the best bacteriological culture medium yet discovered and is especially useful in growing
a pathogenic organism such as we are about to test this afternoon."

Then taking a glass rod, to the end of which was attached a small piece of platinum wire, the
lecturer proceeded to scrape a little of the growth from off the Agar-Agar. Having done this
he quickly deposited it in a test-tube half full of distilled water, which he then heated over
a Bunsen burner. Finally, with the aid of a hypodermic syringe, a little of the liquid was
injected into two sleepy-looking guinea-pigs, and with bated breath the result of the test
was awaited.

Suddenly, without any warning, the two little animals rose on their hind legs and violently
clutched each other by any part of the body on which they could get a grip. Before the astounded
gaze of the onlookers they swayed, nearly fell, then went round in circles, at the same time
executing every sort of conceivable contortion.

A great cheer burst from the audience. From all sides a rush was made for the platform, and
the Professor was carried shoulder-high round the room.

The Jazz germ had been discovered at last.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ANNIVERSARY.

  The 23rd. To-day, my son,
    Two turgid years ago,
  Your father battled with the Hun
    At five A.M. or so;
  This was the day (if I exclude
  A year of painful servitude
  Under the Ministry of Food)
    I struck my final blow.

  Ah, what a night! The cannon roared;
    There was no food to spare;
  And first it froze and then it poured;
    Were we dismayed? We were.
  Three hundred yards we went or more,
    And, when we reached, through seas of gore,
  The village we were fighting for,
    The Germans were not there.

  But miles behind a 9·2
    Blew up a ration dump;
  Far, far and wide the tinned food flew
    From that tremendous crump:
  And one immense and sharp-toothed tin
  Came whistling down, to my chagrin,
  And caught me smartly on the shin--
    By Jove, it made me jump.

  A hideous wound. The blood that flowed!
    It was a job to dress;
  I hobbled bravely down the road
    And reached a C.C.S.;
  Nor was I so obsessed with gloom
  At leaving thus the field of doom
  As one might easily assume
    From stories in the Press.

  Though other soldiers as they fell--
    Or so the papers say--
  Cried, "GEORGE for England! Give 'em hell!"
    (It was ST. GEORGE'S Day),
  Inspiring as a Saint can be,
  I should not readily agree
  That anyone detected me
    Behaving in that way.

  Such is the tale. And, year by year,
    I shall no doubt relate
  For your fatigued but filial ear
    The history of this date;
  Yet, though I do not now enhance
  The crude events of that advance,
  There is a wild fantastic chance
    That they will grow more great.

  So be you certain while you may
    Of what in fact occurred,
  And if I have the face to say
    On some far 23rd
  That on this day the war was won,
  That I despatched a single Hun,
  Or even caught a glimpse of one--
    Don't you believe a word.

  A.P.H.

       *       *       *       *       *

    ANOTHER IMPENDING APOLOGY.

    "Miss ---- looked sweetly pretty in an emerald-green satin
    (very short) skirt, white blouse, and emerald handkerchief
    tied over her head--an Irish Colleen, and a bonie one
    too!"--Colonial Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "According to a Vienna message, the Government has
    introduced a Bill dealing with the former reigning Mouse of
    Austria."--Provincial Paper.

Alas, poor KARL! Ridiculus mus.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Wanted one hour daily from ten to eleven morning at
    convenience an English Talking Family for practice of talking.
    Remuneration twenty rupees per mensem."--Times of India.

We know one or two "talking families" that we should be glad to export.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "In finding the defendant £3, Mr. Price told the defendant
    that he would get into serious trouble if he persisted in his
    conduct."--Evening Paper.

And he may not meet such a generous magistrate next time.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "Englishman, well educated, desires afternoon engagement;
    experienced in the care of children; good needlewoman; or
    would assist light housework."--Canadian Paper.

We hope we shall hear no further complaints from Canada that Englishmen are not adaptable.

       *       *       *       *       *
COMMUNICATIONS.

I was sitting in the Club, comfortably concealed by sheets of a well-known journal, when two
voices, somewhere over the parados of the deep arm-chair, broke in upon my semi-consciousness.

"... Then poor old Tubby, who hasn't recovered from his 1918 dose of shell-shock, got a go
of claustrophobia and felt he simply had to get out of the train."

The speaker paused and I heard the clink of glass.

"Well?" said the other voice.

"So, before we could flatten him out, he skipped up and pulled the communicator thing and stopped
the train; consequently we ran into Town five minutes behind time. There was the deuce of a
buzz about it."

"What's five minutes in this blissful land of lotus-eaters? Why, I've known the Calais-Wipers
express lose itself for half-a-day without a murmur from anyone, unless the Brigadier had run
out of bottled Bass."

"But, my dear fellow," the first voice expostulated, "this was the great West of England non-stop
Swallowtail; runs into Town three minutes ahead of time every trip. Habitués of the line often
turn an honest penny by laying odds on its punctuality with people who are strangers to the
reputation of this flier."

"A pretty safe thing to bet on, eh?" said the other voice. Again there was the faint clink
of glass and then the voices drifted into other topics, to which, having re-enveloped myself
in my paper, I became oblivious.

A few days later I was called away from London, with Mr. Westaby Jones, to consult in a matter
of business. Mr. Westaby Jones is a member of the Stock Exchange and, amongst other trivial
failings, he possesses one which is not altogether unknown in his profession. He cannot resist
a small wager. On several occasions he has gambled with me and shown himself to be a gentleman
of considerable acumen.

Our business was finished and we were on the way back to Town by the great West of England
non-stop Swallowtail. We had lunched well and discussed everything there was to discuss. It
was a moment for rest. I unfolded my paper and proceeded to envelop myself in the usual way.

I seemed to hear the chink of glasses ... a voice murmured, "A pretty safe thing to bet on."

Then in a dreamy sort of manner I realised that Fate had delivered Westaby Jones into my hands.
When we were within twenty miles of London I opened the campaign. I grossly abused the line
on which we were travelling and suggested that anybody could make a fortune by assuming that
its best train would roll in well after the scheduled time.

Westaby Jones, having privily ascertained that the engine-driver had a minute or so in hand,
immediately pinned me down to what he thought (but wisely did not say) were the wild inaccuracies
of an imbecile. He did it to the extent of twenty-five pounds, and I sat back with the comfortable
feeling of a man who will shortly have a small legacy to expend. At the moment which I had
calculated to be most auspicious I suddenly threw off the semblance of boredom, rose up, lurched
across the carriage and pulled the communication cord. (For the benefit of those who have not
done this I may say that the cord comes away pleasantly in the hand and, at the same time,
gives one a piquant feeling of unofficial responsibility.) Westaby Jones was, for a stockbroker,
obviously astonished.

"What on earth are you doing?" he exclaimed.

"Sit down," I said; "this is my improved exerciser."

"But you'll stop the train," he shouted.

"Never mind," I replied; "what's a fine of five pounds compared to physical fitness? Besides,"
I added significantly, "it may be a good investment after all."

For perhaps twenty seconds there was the silent tension of expectation in the air and then
I realised with a shock that the train did not show any signs of slackening speed. It was,
if anything, going faster. I snatched frantically at the cord and pulled about half-a-furlong
into the carriage. We flashed past Ealing like a rocket, and I desperately drew in coils and
coils of the communicator until I and Westaby Jones resembled the Laocoon. It was no good.
Smoothly and irresistibly we glided into the terminus and drew up at the platform three minutes
ahead of time.

I have paid Westaby Jones, who was unmannerly enough to look pleased. I have also corresponded
with the railway company, claiming damages on the grounds of culpable negligence. Unfortunately
they require more evidence than I am prepared to supply of the reasonable urgency of my action.

       *       *       *       *       *

From a theatre programme:--

    "The name of the actual and responsible Manager of the
    premises must be printed at least once during every
    performance to ensure its being in proper order."

So that explains the noise going on behind the scenes.

       *       *       *       *       *

NATURE NOTES.

The Cuckoo has arrived and will sing as announced.

       *       *       *       *       *

One of the results of the arrival of the Cuckoo is the prevalence of notices, for those that
have eyes to see, drawing attention to the ineligible character of nests. These take a variety
of forms--such as "All the discomforts of home," "Beware of mumps," "We have lost our worm
cards," "Serious lining-shortage"--but the purpose of each is to discourage the Cuckoo from
depositing an egg where it is not wanted.

       *       *       *       *       *

From all parts of the country information reaches us as to the odd nesting-places of wrens
and robins. A curious feature is the number of cases where letter-boxes have been chosen, thus
preventing the delivery of letters, and in consequence explaining why so many letters have
not been answered. Even the biggest dilatory correspondent is not ashamed to take advantage
of the smallest bird.

       *       *       *       *       *

The difficulty of obtaining muzzles is very general and many dog-owners have been hard put
to it to comply with the regulation. From these, however, must be excepted those who possess
wire-haired terriers, from whose coats an admirable muzzle can be extracted in a few minutes.

       *       *       *       *       *

The statement of a telephone operator, that "everything gives way to trunks," is said to have
caused great satisfaction in the elephant house at the Zoo.

       *       *       *       *       *

PLEASE.

  Please be careful where you tread,
    The fairies are about;
  Last night, when I had gone to bed,
    I heard them creeping out.
  And wouldn't it be a dreadful thing
    To do a fairy harm?
  To crush a little delicate wing
    Or bruise a tiny arm?
  They 're all about the place, I know,
  So do be careful where you go.

  Please be careful what you say,
    They're often very near,
  And though they turn their heads away
    They cannot help but hear.
  And think how terribly you would mind
    If, even for a joke,
  You said a thing that seemed unkind
    To the dear little fairy folk.
  I'm sure they're simply everywhere,
  So promise me that you'll take care. To name but one handicap, the author has in
such cases to postulate at least some degree of acquaintance on the
part of the reader with his celebrated subject. "Everyone is now
familiar," he will observe, "with the sensational triumph achieved by
the work of X----;" whereat the reader, uneasily conscious of never
having heard of him, inclines to condemn the whole business beforehand
as an impossible fable. I fancy Mr. SOMERSET MAUGHAM felt something of
this difficulty with regard to the protagonist of his quaintly-called
The Moon and Sixpence (HEINEMANN), since, for all his sly pretence
of quoting imaginary authorities, we have really only his unsupported
word for the superlative genius of Charles Strickland,
the stockbroker who abandoned respectable London to become a
Post-impressionist master, a vagabond and ultimately a Pacific
Islander. The more credit then to Mr. MAUGHAM that he does quite
definitely make us accept the fellow at his valuation. He owes this,
perhaps, to the unsparing realism of the portrait. Heartless, utterly
egotistical, without conscience or scruple or a single redeeming
feature beyond the one consuming purpose of his art, Strickland is
alive as few figures in recent fiction have been; a genuinely great
though repellent personality--a man whom it would have been at once
an event to have met and a pleasure to have kicked. Mr. MAUGHAM has
certainly done nothing better than this book about him; the drily
sardonic humour of his method makes the picture not only credible but
compelling. I liked especially the characteristic touch that
shows Strickland escaping, not so much from the dull routine of
stockbroking (genius has done that often enough in stories before now)
as from the pseudo-artistic atmosphere of a flat in Westminster and a
wife who collected blue china and mild celebrities. Mrs. Strickland
indeed is among the best of the slighter characters in a tale with a
singularly small cast; though it is, of course, by the central figure
that it stands or falls. My own verdict is an unhesitating stet.

       *       *       *       *       *

If there be any who still cherish a pleasant memory of the Bonnie Prince CHARLIE of the Jacobite
legend, Miss MARJORIE BOWEN'S Mr. Misfortunate (COLLINS) will dispose of it. She gives us a
study of the YOUNG PRETENDER in the decade following Culloden. Figures such as LOCHIEL, KEITH,
GORING, the dour KELLY, HENRY STUART, LOUIS XV., with sundry courtiers and mistresses, move
across the film. I should say the author's sympathy is with her main subject, but her conscience
is too much for her. I find myself increasingly exercised over this conscience of Miss BOWEN'S.
She seems to me to be deliberately committing herself to what I can only describe as a staccato
method. This was notably the case with The Burning Glass, her last novel. Her narratives no
longer seem to flow. She will give you catalogues of furniture and raiment, with short scenes
interspersed, for all the world as if she were transcribing from carefully taken notes. Quite
probably she is, and I am being authentically instructed and should be duly grateful, but I
find myself longing for the exuberance of her earlier method. I feel quite sure this competent
author can find a way of respecting historical truth without killing the full-blooded flavour
of romance.

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a smack of the Early Besantine about the earnest scion of a noble house who decides
to share the lives and lot of common and unwashed men with an eye to the imminent appearance
of the True Spirit of Democracy in our midst. Such a one is the hero of Miss MAUD DIVER'S latest
novel, Strange Roads (CONSTABLE); but it is only fair to say that Derek Blunt (né Blount),
second son of the Earl of Avonleigh, is no prig, but, on the contrary, a very pleasant fellow.
For a protagonist he obtrudes himself only moderately in a rather discursive story which involves
a number of other people who do nothing in particular over a good many chapters. We are halfway
through before Derek takes the plunge, and then we find, him, not in the slums of some industrial
quarter, but in Western Canada, where class distinctions are founded less on soap than on simoleons.
At the end of the volume the War has "bruk out," and our hero, apart from having led a healthy
outdoor life and chivalrously married and been left a widower by a pathetic child with consumption
and no morals, is just about where he started. I say "at the end of the volume," for there
I find a publisher's note to the effect that in consequence of the paper shortage the further
adventures of our hero have been postponed to a subsequent volume. It is to be entitled The
Strong Hours, and will doubtless provide a satisfactory raison d'être for all the other people
who did nothing in particular in Vol. I.

       *       *       *       *       *

If you had numbered Elizabeth, the heroine of A Maiden in Malaya (MELROSE), among your friends,
I can fancy your calling upon her to "hear about her adventures in the East." I can see her
delightedly telling you of the voyage, of the people she met on board (including the charming
young man upon whom you would already have congratulated her), of how he and she bought curios
at Port Said, of her arrival, of her sister's children and their quaint sayings, of Singapore
and its sights, of Malaya and how she was taken to see the tapping on a rubber plantation--here
I picture a gleam of revived interest, possibly financial in origin, appearing in your face--of
the club, of dinner parties and a thousand other details, all highly entertaining to herself
and involving a sufficiency of native words to impress the stay-at-home. And perhaps, just
as you were considering your chance of an escape before tea, she would continue "and now I
must tell you all about the dreadful time I had in the rising!" which she would then vivaciously
proceed to do; and not only that, but all about the dreadful time (the same dreadful time)
that all her friends had in the same rising, chapters of it, so that in the end it might be
six o'clock or later before you got away. I hope this is not an unfair résumé of the impression
produced upon me by Miss ISOBEL MOUNTAIN'S prattling pages. To sum up, if you have an insatiable
curiosity for the small talk of other people's travel, A Maiden in Malaya may not prove too
much for it. If otherwise, otherwise.

       *       *       *       *       *

I wish Col. JOHN BUCHAN could have been jogging Mrs. A.C. INCHBOLD'S elbow while she was writing
Love and the Crescent (HUTCHINSON), All the essential people in his Greenmantle, which deals,
towards the end at any rate, with just about the same scenes and circumstances as her story,
are so confoundedly efficient, have so undeniably learnt the trick of making the most of their
dashing opportunities. In Mrs. INCHBOLD's book the trouble is that with much greater advantages
in the way of local knowledge and with all manner of excitement, founded on fact, going a-begging,
nothing really thrilling or convincing ever quite materialises. The heroine, Armenian and beautiful,
is as ineffective as the hero, who is French and heroic, both of them displaying the same unfortunate
tendency to be carried off captive by the other side and to indulge in small talk when they
should be most splendid. And the majority of the other figures follow suit. On the face of
it the volume is stuffed with all the material of melodrama; but somehow the authoress seems
to strive after effects that don't come naturally to her. What does come naturally to her is
seen in a background sketch of the unhappy countries of Asia Minor in the hands of the Turk
and the Hun, which is so much the abler part of the book that one would almost rather the too
intrusive narrative were brushed aside entirely. Personally, at any rate, I think I should
prefer Mrs. INCHBOLD in essay or historical form.

       *       *       *       *       *

Madame ALBANESI, in Tony's Wife (HOLDEN AND HARDINGHAM), has provided her admirers with a goodly
collection of sound Albanesians, but she has also given them a villain in whom, I cannot help
thinking, they will find themselves hard-pressed to believe. Richard Savile was deprived of
a great inheritance by Tony's birth, and as his guardian spent long years in nourishing revenge.
He was not, we know, the first guardian to play this game, but that he could completely deceive
so many people for such a long time seems to prove him far cleverer than appears from any actual
evidence furnished. If, however, this portrait is not in the artist's best manner, I can praise
without reserve the picture of Lady Féo, a little Society butterfly, very frivolous on the
surface, but concealing a lot of nice intuition and sympathy, and I welcome her as a set-off
to the silly caricatures we commonly get of the class to which she belonged. Let me add that
in the telling of this tale Madame ALBANESI retains her quiet and individual charm.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

    A CURIOUS ROMANIAN CUSTOM.

    "The two white doves which were perched in the wedding
    carriage excited much interest. They were given, following the
    pretty Roumanian cuckoo, to the bride and bridegroom by the
    people of Roumania to symbolise the happiness and peace which
    are hoped to the newly-married couple."--North Mail.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "A ROMANTIC COURTSHIP IN TURKEY.

    Miss ---- visited Colonel ---- when boat, money, a
    hiding-place in Constantinople last summer suffering from
    smallpox."--Provincial Paper.

There seem here to be all the elements of romance, but the story suffers from overmuch compression.
We shall wait to see it on the film.

