Vinicius took him to the interior colonnade, and there admitted him to the secret. Niger listened
with fixed attention, and on his dry, sunburnt face great emotion was evident; this he did
not even try to master.

"Then she is a Christian?" exclaimed Niger; and he looked inquiringly into the face of Vinicius,
who divined evidently what the gaze of the countryman was asking, since he answered,--

"I too am a Christian."

Tears glistened in Niger's eyes that moment. He was silent for a while; then, raising his hands,
he said,--

"I thank Thee, O Christ, for having taken the beam from eyes which are the dearest on earth to me."

Then he embraced the head of Vinicius, and, weeping from happiness, fell to kissing his forehead.
A moment later, Petronius appeared, bringing Nazarius.

"Good news!" cried he, while still at a distance.

Indeed, the news was good. First, Glaucus the physician guaranteed Lygia's life, though she
had the same prison fever of which, in the Tullianum and other dungeons, hundreds of people
were dying daily. As to the guards and the man who tried corpses with red-hot iron, there was
not the least difficulty. Attys, the assistant, was satisfied also.

"We made openings in the coffin to let the sick woman breathe," said Nazarius. "The only danger
is that she may groan or speak as we pass the pretorians. But she is very weak, and is lying
with closed eyes since early morning. Besides, Glaucus will give her a sleeping draught prepared
by himself from drugs brought by me purposely from the city. The cover will not be nailed to
the coffin; ye will raise it easily and take the patient to the litter. We will place in the
coffin a long bag of sand, which ye will provide."

Vinicius, while hearing these words, was as pale as linen; but he listened with such attention
that he seemed to divine at a glance what Nazarius had to say.

"Will they carry out other bodies from the prison?" inquired Petronius.

"About twenty died last night, and before evening more will be dead," said the youth. "We must
go with a whole company, but we will delay and drop into the rear. At the first corner my comrade
will get lame purposely. In that way we shall remain behind the others considerably. Ye will
wait for us at the small temple of Libitina. May God give a night as dark as possible!"

"He will," said Niger. "Last evening was bright, and then a sudden storm came. To-day the sky
is clear, but since morning it is sultry. Every night now there will be wind and rain."

"Will ye go without torches?" inquired Vinicius.

"The torches are carried only in advance. In every event, be near the temple of Libitina at
dark, though usually we carry out the corpses only just before midnight."

They stopped. Nothing was to be heard save the hurried breathing of Vinicius. Petronius turned
to him,--

"I said yesterday that it would be best were we both to stay at home, but now I see that I
could not stay. Were it a question of flight, there would be need of the greatest caution;
but since she will be borne out as a corpse, it seems that not the least suspicion will enter
the head of any one."

"True, true!" answered Vinicius. "I must be there. I will take her from the coffin myself."

"Once she is in my house at Corioli, I answer for her," said Niger. Conversation stopped here.
Niger returned to his men at the inn. Nazarius took a purse of gold under his tunic and went
to the prison. For Vinicius began a day filled with alarm, excitement, disquiet, and hope.

"The undertaking ought to succeed, for it is well planned," said Petronius. "It was impossible
to plan better. Thou must feign suffering, and wear a dark toga. Do not desert the amphitheatre.
Let people see thee. All is so fixed that there cannot be failure. But--art thou perfectly
sure of thy manager?"

"He is a Christian," replied Vinicius.

Petronius looked at him with amazement, then shrugged his shoulders, and said, as if in soliloquy,--

"By Pollux! how it spreads, and commands people's souls. Under such terror as the present,
men would renounce straightway all the gods of Rome, Greece, and Egypt. Still, this is wonderful!
By Pollux! if I believed that anything depended on our gods, I would sacrifice six white bullocks
to each of them, and twelve to Capitoline Jove. Spare no promises to thy Christ."

"I have given Him my soul," said Vinicius.

And they parted. Petronius returned to his cubiculum; but Vinicius went to look from a distance
at the prison, and thence betook himself to the slope of the Vatican hill,--to that hut of
the quarryman where he had received baptism from the hands of the Apostle. It seemed to him
that Christ would hear him more readily there than in any other place; so when he found it,
he threw himself on the ground and exerted all the strength of his suffering soul in prayer
for mercy, and so forgot himself that he remembered not where he was or what he was doing.
In the afternoon he was roused by the sound of trumpets which came from the direction of Nero's
Circus. He went out of the hut, and gazed around with eyes which were as if just opened from sleep.

It was hot; the stillness was broken at intervals by the sound of brass and continually by
the ceaseless noise of grasshoppers. The air had become sultry, the sky was still clear over
the city, but near the Sabine Hills dark clouds were gathering at the edge of the horizon.

Vinicius went home. Petronius was waiting for him in the atrium.

"I have been on the Palatine," said he. "I showed myself there purposely, and even sat down
at dice. There is a feast at the house of Vinicius this evening; I promised to go, but only
after midnight, saying that I must sleep before that hour. In fact I shall be there, and it
would be well wert thou to go also."

"Are there no tidings from Niger or Nazarius?" inquired Vinicius.

"No; we shall see them only at midnight. Hast noticed that a storm is threatening?"

"Yes."

"To-morrow there is to be an exhibition of crucified Christians, but perhaps rain will prevent it."

Then he drew nearer and said, touching his nephew's shoulder,--"But thou wilt not see her on
the cross; thou wilt see her only in Corioli. By Castor! I would not give the moment in which
we free her for all the gems in Rome. The evening is near."

In truth the evening was near, and darkness began to encircle the city earlier than usual because
clouds covered the whole horizon. With the coming of night heavy rain fell, which turned into
steam on the stones warmed by the heat of the day, and filled the streets of the city with
mist. After that came a lull, then brief violent showers.

"Let us hurry!" said Vinicius at last; "they may carry bodies from the prison earlier because
of the storm."

"It is time!" said Petronius.

And taking Gallic mantles with hoods, they passed through the garden door to the street. Petronius
had armed himself with a short Roman knife called sicca, which he took always during night trips.

The city was empty because of the storm. From time to time lightning rent the clouds, illuminating
with its glare the fresh walls of houses newly built or in process of building and the wet
flag-stones with which the streets were paved. At last a flash came, when they saw, after a
rather long road, the mound on which stood the small temple of Libitina, and at the foot of
the mound a group of mules and horses.

"Niger!" called Vinicius, in a low voice.

"I am here, lord," said a voice in the rain.

"Is everything ready?"

"It is. We were here at dark. But hide yourselves under the rampart, or ye will be drenched.
What a storm! Hail will fall, I think."

In fact Niger's fear was justified, for soon hail began to fall, at first fine, then larger
and more frequent. The air grew cold at once. While standing under the rampart, sheltered from
the wind and icy missiles, they conversed in low voices.

"Even should some one see us," said Niger, "there will be no suspicion; we look like people
waiting for the storm to pass. But I fear that they may not bring the bodies out till morning."

"The hail-storm will not last," said Petronius. "We must wait even till daybreak."

They waited, listening to hear the sound of the procession. The hail-storm passed, but immediately
after a shower began to roar. At times the wind rose, and brought from the "Putrid Pits" a
dreadful odor of decaying bodies, buried near the surface and carelessly.

"I see a light through the mist," said Niger,--"one, two, three,--those are torches. See that
the mules do not snort," said he, turning to the men.

"They are coming!" said Petronius.

The lights were growing more and more distinct. After a time it was possible to see torches
under the quivering flames.

Niger made the sign of the cross, and began to pray. Meanwhile the gloomy procession drew nearer,
and halted at last in front of the temple of Libitina. Petronius, Vinicius, and Niger pressed
up to the rampart in silence, not knowing why the halt was made. But the men had stopped only
to cover their mouths and faces with cloths to ward off the stifling stench which at the edge
of the "Putrid Pits" was simply unendurable; then they raised the biers with coffins and moved
on. Only one coffin stopped before the temple. Vinicius sprang toward it, and after him Petronius,
Niger, and two British slaves with the litter.

But before they had reached it in the darkness, the voice of Nazarius was heard, full of pain,--

"Lord, they took her with Ursus to the Esquiline prison. We are carrying another body! They
removed her before midnight."

Petronius, when he had returned home, was gloomy as a storm, and did not even try to console
Vinicius. He understood that to free Lygia from the Esquiline dungeons was not to be dreamed
of. He divined that very likely she had been taken from the Tullianum so as not to die of fever
and escape the amphitheatre assigned to her. But for this very reason she was watched and guarded
more carefully than others. From the bottom of his soul Petronius was sorry for her and Vinicius,
but he was wounded also by the thought that for the first time in life he had not succeeded,
and for the first time was beaten in a struggle.

"Fortune seems to desert me," said he to himself, "but the gods are mistaken if they think
that I will accept such a life as his, for example."

Here he turned toward Vinicius, who looked at him with staring eyes. "What is the matter? Thou
hast a fever," said Petronius.

But Vinicius answered with a certain strange, broken, halting voice, like that of a sick child,--"But
I believe that He--can restore her to me."

Above the city the last thunders of the storm had ceased.

Chapter LVII

THREE days' rain, an exceptional phenomenon in Rome during summer, and hail falling in opposition
to the natural order, not only in the day, but even at night, interrupted the spectacles. People
were growing alarmed. A failure of grapes was predicted, and when on a certain afternoon a
thunderbolt melted the bronze statue of Ceres on the Capitol, sacrifices were ordered in the
temple of Jupiter Salvator. The priests of Ceres spread a report that the anger of the gods
was turned on the city because of the too hasty punishment of Christians; hence crowds began
to insist that the spectacles be given without reference to weather. Delight seized all Rome
when the announcement was made at last that the ludus would begin again after three days' interval.

Meanwhile beautiful weather returned. The amphitheatre was filled at daybreak with thousands
of people. Cæsar came early with the vestals and the court. The spectacle was to begin with
a battle among the Christians, who to this end were arrayed as gladiators and furnished with
all kinds of weapons which served gladiators by profession in offensive and defensive struggles.
But here came disappointment. The Christians threw nets, darts, tridents, and swords on the
arena, embraced and encouraged one another to endurance in view of torture and death. At this
deep indignation and resentment seized the hearts of the multitude. Some reproached the Christians
with cowardice and pusillanimity; others asserted that they refused to fight through hatred
of the people, so as to deprive them of that pleasure which the sight of bravery produces.
Finally, at command of Cæsar, real gladiators were let out, who despatched in one twinkle the
kneeling and defenceless victims.

When these bodies were removed, the spectacle was a series of mythologic pictures,--Cæsar's
own idea. The audience saw Hercules blazing in living fire on Mount Oeta. Vinicius had trembled
at the thought that the role of Hercules might be intended for Ursus; but evidently the turn
of Lygia's faithful servant had not come, for on the pile some other Christian was burning,--a
man quite unknown to Vinicius. In the next picture Chilo, whom Cæsar would not excuse from
attendance, saw acquaintances. The death of Dædalus was represented, and also that of Icarus.
In the rôle of Dædalus appeared Euricius, that old man who had given Chilo the sign of the
fish; the role of Icarus was taken by his son, Quartus. Both were raised aloft with cunning
machinery, and then hurled suddenly from an immense height to the arena. Young Quartus fell
so near Cæsar's podium that he spattered with blood not only the external ornaments but the
purple covering spread over the front of the podium. Chilo did not see the fall, for he closed
his eyes; but he heard the dull thump of the body, and when after a time he saw blood there
close to him, he came near fainting a second time.

The pictures changed quickly. The shameful torments of maidens violated before death by gladiators
dressed as wild beasts, delighted the hearts of the rabble. They saw priestesses of Cybele
and Ceres, they saw the Danaides, they saw Dirce and Pasiphaë; finally they saw young girls,
not mature yet, torn asunder by wild horses. Every moment the crowd applauded new ideas of
Nero, who, proud of them, and made happy by plaudits, did not take the emerald from his eye
for one instant while looking at white bodies torn with iron, and the convulsive quivering
of victims.

Pictures were given also from the history of the city. After the maidens they saw Mucius Scævola,
whose hand fastened over a fire to a tripod filled the amphitheatre with the odor of burnt
flesh; but this man, like the real Scævola, remained without a groan, his eyes raised and the
murmur of prayer on his blackening lips. When he had expired and his body was dragged to the
spoliarium, the usual midday interlude followed. Cæsar with the vestals and the Augustians
left the amphitheatre, and withdrew to an immense scarlet tent erected purposely; in this was
prepared for him and the guests a magnificent prandium. The spectators for the greater part
followed his example, and, streaming out, disposed themselves in picturesque groups around
the tent, to rest their limbs wearied from long sitting, and enjoy the food which, through
Cæsar's favor, was served by slaves to them. Only the most curious descended to the arena itself,
and, touching with their fingers lumps of sand held together by blood, conversed, as specialists
and amateurs, of that which had happened and of that which was to follow. Soon even these went
away, lest they might be late for the feast; only those few were left who stayed not through
curiosity, but sympathy for the coming victims. Those concealed themselves behind seats or
in the lower places.

Meanwhile the arena was levelled, and slaves began to dig holes one near the other in rows
throughout the whole circuit from side to side, so that the last row was but a few paces distant
from Cæsar's podium. From outside came the murmur of people, shouts and plaudits, while within
they were preparing in hot haste for new tortures. The cunicula were opened simultaneously,
and in all passages leading to the arena were urged forward crowds of Christians naked and
carrying crosses on their shoulders. The whole arena was filled with them. Old men, bending
under the weight of wooden beams, ran forward; at the side of these went men in the prime of
life, women with loosened hair behind which they strove to hide their nakedness, small boys,
and little children. The crosses, for the greater part, as well as the victims, were wreathed
with flowers. The servants of the amphitheatre beat the unfortunates with clubs, forcing them
to lay down their crosses near the holes prepared, and stand themselves there in rows. Thus
were to perish those whom executioners had had no chance to drive out as food for dogs and
wild beasts the first day of the games. Black slaves seized the victims, laid them face upward
on the wood, and fell to nailing their hands hurriedly and quickly to the arms of the crosses,
so that people returning after the interlude might find all the crosses standing. The whole
amphitheatre resounded with the noise of hammers which echoed through all the rows, went out
to the space surrounding the amphitheatre, and into the tent where Cæsar was entertaining his
suite and the vestals. There he drank wine, bantered with Chilo, and whispered strange words
in the ears of the priestesses of Vesta; but on the arena the work was seething,--nails were
going into the hands and feet of the Christians; shovels moved quickly, filling the holes in
which the crosses had been planted.

Among the new victims whose turn was to come soon was Crispus. The lions had not had time to
rend him; hence he was appointed to the cross. He, ready at all times for death, was delighted
with the thought that his hour was approaching. He seemed another man, for his emaciated body
was wholly naked,--only a girdle of ivy encircled his hips, on his head was a garland of roses.
But in his eyes gleamed always that same exhaustless energy; that same fanatical stern face
gazed from beneath the crown of roses. Neither had his heart changed; for, as once in the cuniculum
he had threatened with the wrath of God his brethren sewed up in the skins of wild beasts,
so to-day he thundered in place of consoling them.

"Thank the Redeemer," said Crispus, "that He permits you to die the same death that He Himself
died. Maybe a part of your sins will be remitted for this cause; but tremble, since justice
must be satisfied, and there cannot be one reward for the just and the wicked."

His words were accompanied by the sound of the hammers nailing the hands and feet of victims.
Every moment more crosses were raised on the arena; but he, turning to the crowd standing each
man by his own cross, continued,--

"I see heaven open, but I see also the yawning abyss. I know not what account of my life to
give the Lord, though I have believed, and hated evil. I fear, not death, but resurrection;
I fear, not torture, but judgment, for the day of wrath is at hand."

At that moment was heard from between the nearest rows some voice, calm and solemn,--

"Not the day of wrath, but of mercy, the day of salvation and happiness; for I say that Christ
will gather you in, will comfort you and seat you at His right hand. Be confident, for heaven
is opening before you."

At these words all eyes were turned to the benches; even those who were hanging on the crosses
raised their pale, tortured faces, and looked toward the man who was speaking.

