I was now losing heart, when, to my great joy, I came upon "the White Kangaroo, the Laughing
Jackasses, &c.," all of which were to be seen "free gratis and for nothing." It is right, however,
that I should add that I found some difficulty in distinguishing "the White Kangaroo" from
"the Laughing Jackasses," and both from "&c." I now made for Mlle. PAULA's Crocodiles, but
here, again, alas! I was doomed to disappointment. As I approached the Reptile-House, in which
the fair dame was disporting herself (no doubt) amongst "Indian Pythons and Boa Constrictors,"
I was warned off by the legend, "Admission, Sixpence." It was then I remembered that, after
all, I was in an Aquarium, and, consequently, had no right to expect anything but fish. So
I approached the tanks, and, to my great delight, found in one of them some floating bodies,
that I am almost sure must have been herrings. Having thus gratified my curiosity for the strange
and the curious, I returned, well satisfied, to the country, where I purpose remaining a further
term of next twenty years. In the meanwhile, believe me, Dear Mr. Punch,

Yours sincerely, ONE EASILY PLEASED.

       *       *       *       *       *

Something very big.--"The principal rôle (Falstaff), in VERDI's new comic Opera is amplified
and enlarged," writes a special Correspondent to The Standard, "from the Falstaff of the other
plays (besides the Merry Wives) in which he takes a part." "Takes a part!" Good Heavens! Falstaff
"amplified and enlarged" will be something more than a part. It will be that mathematical impossibility,
"a part greater than the whole." Surely, with such a rôle in it, this can't be a light Opera.

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

Golden Bells, rung by DEAN AND SON,--quite appropriately ecclesiastical this,--and edited by
Mrs. ELIZABETH DAY, will ring forth peals of delight in the nursery, it being the Christmas
number of The Little One's Own Paper.

Arrowsmith's Christmas Annual, by WALTER BESANT, bears the cheerful and seasonable title of
"The Demoniac."

Mr. HYNE's Four Red Nightcaps is somewhat in the style of Three Men in a Boat, only there are
"Four men in a Yacht."

Most of the Magazines have their special numbers of these. The English Illustrated Harper's,
The Century, are got up with the most charming illustrations.

The Gentlewoman has her first Christmas Number, and,--so like her!--a coloured satin picture!
The Pictorial World has two good pictures for framing.

The Baron liketh much the latest contribution to the Rosslyn Series, edited by Earl HODGSON,
who is of the Peerage of Parnassus, as you won't find this Earl in Brett's Peerage. The Baron
congratulates the Earl, and has also sent an order for a pound of laurels wherewith to decorate
the brow of WALTER HERRIES POLLOCK. Among the many gems of his songs let me select "A Continuation"--there
would have been "a pair of continuations," could he have rivalled himself; then "Lalage," and
"The Chansonnette," which, with "Rizzio to Marie Stuart," ought to be set to music by a gifted
composer. There are also some delightful verses to "Old Court Trinity," which will delight
all Trinitarians of Cambridge--"cum multis aliis"--to quote the ancient Roman singer, so, as
a short way with our Poet POLLOCK, the classic Baron, remembering how the ancients swore "By
Pollux!" adapts the ejaculation, and says, "Buy POLLOCK's--book."

All Meredithians must possess George Meredith, Some Characteristics, by Richard Le Gallienne.
The book is a complete and excellent guide to the novelist and the novels, a sort of Meredithian
Bradshaw, with pictures of the traffic superintendent, and of the head office at Boxhill. Even
Philistines may be won over by the blandishments of Mr. Le GALLIENNE, from whom I learn, by
the way, that GEORGE MEREDITH is "the HARVEY of the Ego," and that he is not ADRIAN HARLEY.
I hear, also, that "daily, from one quarter or another, come critical cuff and kick, to impress
upon a numb public the latest example of its immemorial purblindness." And the Baron adds this
cufflet to the rest. Mr. JOHN LANE has added a Bibliography, which is a model of minute industry.
So here's to the book of RICHARD and JOHN.

Among the Arts for obvious reasons not known to Ancient Greece is The Art of Cooking by Gas.
In a little book under this title, published by CASSELL, Mrs. SUGG has undertaken to disclose
its mysteries, and set forth its attractions. No one could be better qualified for the task,
since Mrs. SUGG is the wife of WILLIAM SUGG of Charing Cross, who has thrown more light on
Modern London than CAMDEN did on its ancient ways. Cooking by gas, Mrs. SUGG shows, is cleaner,
cheaper, more convenient, and more artistic than the older style. So widely is the practice
now established, that gas-cooking apparatus are made to suit all conditions of life, from the
kitchen of the Grand Hotel to the "Little Connaught," which you can (if you like) carry about
in your waistcoat-pocket; yet when properly extended it will roast fowls, and small joints,
grill chops, steaks, and fish, boil eggs, and vegetables, and keep a large family in hot water.
"To gentlemen residing in Chambers, or those reading for the Bar," Mrs. SUGG writes of another
treasure, "this little kitchener with the two grillers will prove a great boon." If Sir HENRY
JAMES had really been going to the Bench, he could not have done better than study this book,
and set himself up with a "Little Connaught" or a "Double Griller." Since that is not the case,
it may be asked, Would they be worth the LORD CHANCELLOR's attention? We unhesitatingly reply,
"Why, Sugg'nly!"

"Are you asleep, BUCHANAN?" inquired ARCHER. This is the first sentence of a shilling novel,
by BUTIFFE SKOTTOWE, with a very sensational picture on the cover. I "read no more that day,"
but closed the book, dreading lest, of the two figures on the thrilling frontispiece, one should
be the BUCHANAN, and the other the only ARCHER in the world of Ibsenish proclivities.

THE BARON DE BOOK-WORMS & CO.

       *       *       *       *       *

STRUCTURAL IMPROVEMENTS IN A THEATRE.--Mr. NORMAN FORBES opens the Globe. The seats are so
constructed, that they can be taken outside the theatre. Also, any person who has purchased
a numbered seat need not come to the theatre to occupy it. The seats are so made as to be equally
comfortable for big and little persons--for the former, they can be let out.

       *       *       *       *       *

A CRY FROM THE CINDER-PATH.

DEAR MR. PUNCH,

I must appeal to you, the unimpeachable Cæsar, in athletics as in all other matters, to secure
me some small meed of public sympathy and consideration. During the, happily, almost past year,
I have been the victim of gross ill-treatment at the hands, nay, worse, the feet, of athletes
of various kinds. I have been cut in public by some of the best performers; I have been mercilessly
beaten, and persistently lowered, till it is a wonder to myself that I have any self-respect
left. I am too good a sportsman at least, Sir, to complain of rough usage in a fair way, but
while I must suffer for the ambition of every ped. and every wheel-man, my colleague and close
relation, who is generally known as "The Standard," is put higher and higher, without really
doing anything at all to deserve his elevation. I have had the people all shouting about me;
I have been the subject of columns of statistical gush in the Sporting Press, and now I am
constrained to appeal to a non-professional for bare justice in my crippled old age. Wishing
you a happier New Year than the old one has been to me, I am yours, in disgust,

A SMASHED RECORD.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON METEORILLOGICAL ARRANGEMENTS.

(FOR THE WINTER.)

CLERK OF WEATHER OFFICE.

  Monday                     {Frost. N.E. wind. Light fall of Snow. N. wind.
                               {Change at night to S. Thaw. Slosh.
  Tuesday                     Fog. E. wind.
  Wednesday                   Thicker fog. N.E. wind. Frost.
  Thursday                    Thicker fog. E. wind.
  Thursday Night.             Fog. Frost. N. wind.
  Friday & Friday Night       Snow. N. wind. Sudden change to S.W. wind.
  Saturday                    Sun for two hours. Horrid slosh.
  Sunday                      Drizzle. Rain for one day.
  Monday                      Hard frost. N.E. wind. Traffic almost impossible.
  Tuesday and following days  (Da capo, with a few variations.)

       *       *       *       *       *

A MUSICAL NOTE.

Very fine performance by Royal Choral Society, at my little place in Kensington, on Wednesday
evening, Dec. 10th, of MACKENZIE's "Rose of Sharon." Everything couleur de Rose, except the
atmosphere, which was couleur de pea-soup. Weather responsible for a certain number of empty
stalls in my hall. Madame ALBANI in excellent voice--sang throughout gloriously. E.L., the
Squire of Hall Barn, says that, when the eminent soprano sings at his place, he shall announce
her as Madame HALLBARNI. HILDA WILSON first-rate in "Lo! the King!" LLOYD as good as ever;
can't say more. The duets between him and ALBANI, perfection. WATKIN MILLS, an impressive Solomon,
sang the difficult music of that character artistically. The Chorus superb in one of finest
choruses, written by an English composer, "Make a joyful Noise"--very joyful noise they made,
and a considerable one. I consider the "Rose of Sharon" a masterpiece, and the greatest work
of any Englishman--and, now I come to think of it, MACKENZIE's a Scotchman. Yours truly, ALBERT
HALL.

       *       *       *       *       *

PARS ABOUT PICTURES.--On to DOWDESWELL's--Pictures by the Newlyn School. Interesting show this--especially
good in landscapes. Disappointed there is no picture of the town of Par, whence the O.P.'s
ancestors came. However, let that pass. Ladies, first,--there is excellent work by Mrs. STANHOPE
FORBES, Mrs. GOTCH, Miss HAYES, Miss FORD, and Miss BIRD; and, be it said with all politeness,
equally excellent work by Messrs. STANHOPE FORBES, TITCOMBE, A.C. TAYLER, and others. A good
many of the tin mines of Cornwall are said to be worked out, but I think not a few of our young
artists have found a mine of tin in this picturesque country, which they are working both to
their own advantage, and that of the Art-loving public. In the same gallery may be found a
small collection of pastels by Mr. JAMES GUTHRIE. This artist seems to thoroughly understand
the scope of pastel--and has walked his chalks about Scotland to considerable purpose. OLD PAR.

       *       *       *       *       *

"AWAY WITH MELANCHOLY."--Nothing in Nature and Art combined is so sad as the effect of a Street
Minstrel playing something with flourishes on a clarinet under the windows of your study during
a yellow London fog. "This way madness lies."

       *       *       *       *       *

"BOXING-DAY" will, of course, be kept with great festivity at the Pelican Club. The contests
will be of the friendliest character, and will be genially announced as "Kiss-in-the-Ring."

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BABES IN THE WOOD;

OR, THE ST. STEPHEN'S TRAGEDY.

AN OLD (INGOLDSBYISH) SONG, TO A NEW (IRISH) TUNE.

  When M.P.'s were all honest and good,
    (A long time ago, I'm afraid, Ma'am),
  We heard of the Babes in the Wood,
    Who were jockeyed, misled, and betrayed, Ma'am.
  Well, history, so we are told,
    Repeats itself--varying slightly--
  Once again two poor Babes have been--sold,
    Let us say, just to put it politely.
            Rum tiddy-um, tiddy-um-tay!

  Two innocent cherubs they were,
    Master GLADDY, and young Miss MOORLEENA;
  Such sweet little souls to ensnare,--
    Why, no conduct could well have been meaner.
  But all things went well for a time;
    The parties they trusted made much of them;
  Little they fancied that crime
    Would ever attempt to get clutch of them.
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  All the same, Ma'am, before very long,
    The Babes found themselves in the Wood. It
  Was that which is known in Erse song
    As the Wood of Shillelagh. Now could it
  Be thought that two brave Oirish bhoys
    Might be found so confoundedly cruel
  As to rob two wee bairns of their toys,
    And then give the poor darlings their "gruel"?
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  But somehow one of them fell out
    With his whilom pet Babe, little GLADDY,
  Looked on him with anger and doubt,
    And conspired to destroy him, poor laddie!
  It seems that the once-admired "kid"
    Was a Turk, and a rogue, and a pickle,
  Who wouldn't do what he was bid,
    But was talkative, tricky, and fickle.
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  Clear case of the Wolf and the Lamb!
    Said the Wolf, "I dislike, and distrust him.
  His innocence is but a sham.
    I mean having the bleed of him, bust him!"
  (Such language sounds vulgar and coarse,
    And to put it in poesy's painful;
  But KIPLING will tell you that force
    Of taste must be sometimes disdainful.)
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  Little GLADDY, he turned up his eyes
    To his guide's now most truculent visage,
  And feelings of doubt and surprise
    Took hold on him, trying at his age.
  Cried he, "Go away, Naughty Man!
    MOORLEENA, this fellow's a rogue, he
  Will kill us, I'm sure, if he can,
    For his face looks as black as Old Bogey!"
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  Oh, then the First Robber looked mad,
    And he ups, and says he to the Second,
  "This impudent bit of a lad
    No more a safe pal can be reckoned.
  Get him out of our way, or the swag
    Will not be worth much when allotted.
  MOORLEENA's small weasand you scrag,
    Whilst I cut young BILLY's carotid!"
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  "Ha! stop!" cried the milder of mood,
    "Your conduct is savage and silly.
  They will search for these Babes in this Wood,
    And there'll be a big row about BILLY.
  Don't fancy you'll finish this job
    When you've scragged 'em and stifled their sobbins'!
  If these Babes we should murder and rob,
    Their graves won't be left to the Robins!"
            Rum tiddy, &c.

  Of course after language like this
    Those Robbers' relations grew "squiffy."
  Each drew, cut and thrust, scored a miss,
    And then they set-to in a jiffy.
  The Babes, in no optimist mood,
    Look on at the fight not unequal.
  Will they safely get out of the Wood?
    Well, that we shall see in the sequel!
            Rum-tiddy-um, tiddy-um-tay!

       *       *       *       *       *

AN Anglo-Indian journal, quoted by the Daily News, suggests that the Ameer of Afghanistan "might
construct a telegraph line throughout his country." Good idea. Of course it is A-meer suggestion.

       *       *       *       *       *

NO MORE APPEALS! NO CHANCE OF AN ERRONEOUS JUDGMENT!! NO WRONG SENTENCES!!!--The new Judge
must be always WRIGHT. Query--Can he sit in Error?

       *       *       *       *       *

NAUTICAL AND ACADEMICAL QUESTION, IMPORTANT FOR MARINE PAINTERS.--How much water must such
an Artist draw before he is admitted into the Royal Academy Harbour?

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HIBERNIAN BRER FOX; OR, UNCLE REMUS IN IRELAND.

"Now, 'bout dat time, honey," pursued Uncle REMUS, "Brer Fox he lay low pooty well all der time."

"Why was that?" asked the little boy.

"Dat," replied the old man, "was des w'at his frends wanted fer ter know. But Brer Fox, he
ain't sayin' nuthin'. And bless grashus, honey! some er der doin's er Brer Fox 'bout dis yer
time ain't fit fer chilluns ter know. Brer Fox, I'm feared, wuz kinder simpertin' roun' atter
udder people's prop'ty, and dat's des why he lay low, en ain't say nuthin'."

"However," pursued the old man, after a pause,--

  "'De place wharbouts you spill de grease,
  Right dar youer boun' ter slide.'

And bimeby Brer Fox he sorter slid up ker-slump, he did, on his own slide, an' his frens dey
done 'fuse m'on m'on to live naberly wid him, see'n ez he'd done broke der laws er naberly
conduc' as der beastesses hold 'em. En Brer Rabbit--Ole Man Rabbit, as dey call him--he up
en he sez, sezee, I ain't gwineter 'sociate long er no Brer Foxes no mo', he sez; 'taint 'spectubble,
he sez. I sorter members der las' time we confabbed togedder, sezee, when we war des as soshubble
ez er basket er kittens, twel bimeby you kinder went down to der bottom kerblunkity-blunk,
and den you sorter rounded on me 'bout der privit palaver, en I des don't like der way ez der
sym'tums seem to segashuate," says Brer Rabbit, sezee.

"Youer stuck up, dat's w'at you is, but you ain't gwineter boss me," says Brer Fox, sezee.

Brer Rabbit, he sorter chuckle in his stummuck, he did, but he ain't sayin' nuthin'.

"I'm gwineter larn you howter talk ter 'spectubble fokes if hit's der las' ack," says Brer
Fox, sezee. "Ef you don't take off dat hat, and tell me howdy, I'm gwineter to bus' you wide
open, sezee, ef I busses myself at der same time," sezee.

Den Brer Rabbit he fotch up on his behime legs like he wuz 'stonished, but he stan' on his
dignitude, and he ain't sayin' nuthin!

Den Brer Fox get mighty mad. Der never wuz a madder beas' dan he wuz des den.

"Bress you' soul, he wuz tryin' fer tar fling Brer Rabbit off'n his dignitude," answered the
old man.

"And did he succeed?" pursued the little lad.

"Dat's all de fur de tale goes--at present," replied the old man. "How de onfrennelness eventuated,
I may tell you anudder time. But, as I tell you, Brer Rabbit wuz a monstus soon beas'; and,
when Brer Fox look mighty biggity, atter cuttin' up mighty small, en loup roun' and make faces
at all de beastesses, en sorter rustle roun' like he wuz gwinter bus' eberything, why den,
honey, fokes is apt to look on him as kinder splummy-splummy, atter all, en his enfloons bimeby
is boun' to be pow'ful lackin'."

       *       *       *       *       *

THAT FOOT-BALL.

AN ATHLETIC FATHER'S LAMENT.

  What was it made me cricket snub,
  And force my seven sons to subsidize a local "Rugby" Club?
            That Foot-ball!

  Yet, what first drew from me a sigh,
  When TOM, my eldest, missed a "try,"
  But got instead a broken thigh!
            That Foot-ball!

  What in my second, stalwart JACK,
  Caused some inside machine to crack,
  And kept him ten months on his back--?
            That Foot-ball!

  What brought my third, unhappy TED,
  To fade and sink, and keep his bed,
  And finally go off his head?--
            That Foot-ball!

  My fourth and fifth, poor JOHN and JIM,
  What made the sight of one so dim?
  What made the other lack a limb?
            That Foot-ball!

  Then FRANK, my sixth, who cannot touch
  The ground unaided by a crutch,
  Alas! of what had he too much?
            That Foot-ball!

  The seventh ends the mournful line,
  Poor STEPHEN with his fractured spine.
  A debt owe these good sons of mine,
            That Foot-ball!

  And as we pass the street-boys cry,
  "Look at them cripples!" I but sigh,
  "You're right, my friends. But would you fly
  A lot like ours; uh, do not try
            That Foot-ball!"

       *       *       *       *       *

OUR ADVERTISERS.

SEASONABLE AND OTHER.

SCARIFICO is a non-emollient, detergent, case-hardening, and scouring soap polish.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO will instantly give the finest complexion the consistency of hardened wash-leather.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO, used recklessly and freely, will rapidly flay the reigning beauty.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO, if applied as a head-wash, entirely removes all the hair.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO should be tried on the young infant with caution.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO, though regarded as an adjunct to the toilette-table, will be found more useful in
removing the rust from old fire-irons.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO, if used inadvertently in the ordinary course as toilette soap, will frequently remove
the entire skin of the face on one application.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO will be found useful in the weekly bath of the rhinoceros.

       *       *       *       *       *

SCARIFICO.--Dr. BLINKORN, M.R.S.V.P., writes:--"I have analysed a sample of 'Scarifico' sent
me, and I find it a hap-hazard compound, in which suspended fats, brick-dust, fuller's earth,
road-sweepings, and the bi-phosphates of soda are indiscriminately mixed. I cannot say whether
it would be found a 'comfortable and cleansing preparation for the infant's skin,' as claimed
by the proprietors, but should be more inclined to recommend it as an 'efficient mud-remover
from cart-wheels and cleaning of ships' foul bottoms,' to its capabilities for which purposes
they also direct the attention of their customers."

       *       *       *       *       *

<big><big>£16,000</big></big> URGENTLY wanted for a few hours in a friendly spirit. As every
confidence will be placed in the lender, no inquiries will be made or expected. Moreover, this
being a purely unprofessional, but strictly business transaction, as between gentleman and
gentleman, no amount of interest will be objected to, and no agents will be treated with. N.B.--If
lender is unable at a moment's notice to raise so large a sum, a few shillings in advance per
postal order, if merely as a guarantee of good faith, can be forwarded on account, and will
be acknowledged with thanks.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE POETRY OF WINTER.--Rime. And it might be werse. The first section of Session was drawing
to a close; truly a wonderful time. OLD MORALITY, in arranging for its disposal, had, as usual,
taken a sanguine view of his opportunities, and had crammed the space with work to be done.
There were the Tithes Bill and the Land Purchase Bill, ineffectually struggled over last Session,
and finally abandoned. There was the Railways Bill, successfully obstructed last Session, leading,
on one occasion, to an All-night Sitting; and there was the Seed Potato Bill, innocent enough
in appearance, but, like all Irish measures, capable of blossoming into portentous things.
But everything had gone smoothly. Here was the 8th of December, not quite a fortnight after
opening of Session, and appointed work nearly finished. To-night would read a Second Time second
portion of Land Bill, and then, hey, for the Christmas holidays!

Prince ARTHUR, entering House with long, swinging stride, smiling sweetly around him, started
at the prospect before him. Hitherto Benches in Irish quarter have been empty; accustomed occupants
wrestling with each other in Committee Room No. 15. "For a fortnight," as SYDNEY HERBERT said,
dropping into poetry as he surveyed the battle-field from the Bar, "all bloodless lay the untrodden
snow." Now Prince ARTHUR, like "LINDEN, saw another sight." The Irish quarter closely packed.
At the corner seat by the Gangway TIM HEALY, terribly truculent; a little further down the
new Leader of the regenerate party, bent on making more History for Our Own Times.

Whilst PARNELL was yet the uncrowned king, he eschewed the habit of Guerilla Leaders (whether
with or without a following) of appropriating a corner seat.

"For a very good reason," says WILLIAM MURPHY, once mildest-mannered man that ever built a
tram or railway, now transformed into exceedingly plain-spoken politician. "If PARNELL had
taken corner seat, his comings and goings--especially his goings--would have been more easily
marked. Sitting midway down the Bench, amongst the ruck of Members, he was not noticeable except
when he wanted to be noticed. Could slink in and out without attracting attention."

Not for that reason, but from sheer modesty, JUSTIN MCCARTHY has taken up almost identical
position; Truculent TIM guards the corner seat, where he can snap and snarl with fuller freedom.
Fell upon Prince ARTHUR to-night with fearsome ferocity. The Prince, having explained his measure
last week, when TIM and the rest were "deliberating" in Committee Room No. 15, he presumed
to think he needn't repeat exercise, and so moved. Second Reading by dumb gesture. TIM on his
feet as if propelled from catapult. What! the Chief Secretary not going to make a speech when
the new Irish Party had mustered for the first time in the history of a reeling and revolving
universe? Abominable Atrocious!! Contumeliously contemptuous!!!

TIM moved Adjournment of Debate; wanted to discuss merits of Bill on this motion. Deputy-Speaker
interfered on point of order. TIM must speak or burst. If he withdrew his Motion for Adjournment,
he might get someone else to move rejection of Bill. Then his opportunity would come. Eye fell
on SEYMOUR KEAY, dressed in height of antique fashion, reclining on Bench below him. KEAY always
wanting to make speech. Not invariably coherent, but that no consequence. He would be only
too glad to move rejection of Bill; then TIM would dive in and get off his speech.

Change of tactics too rapid for KEAY to follow. TIM's motion withdrawn; question put was, "that
Bill be read Second Time." Now was KEAY's cue to rise and move its rejection; but KEAY failed
to grasp situation; sat smiling with inane adulation at tip of his passionately polished patent-leather
shoe, over which lay the fawn-coloured "spat," like dun dawn rising over languid lustrous sea.
Not a second to be lost. Deputy-Chairman on his feet; if no Amendment were submitted, he would
declare Second Reading carried. TIM stooped down, and with clenched fist smote KEAY between
the shoulder-blades. KEAY, startled out of pleased reverie, turned round with frightened glance,
as he beheld TIM blazing with righteous fury, glowering over him: paralysed with fear; had
heard alarming rumours of methods of Debate introduced in Committee Room No. 15. This sudden
assault from the rear evidently one of them. Who could say what might not be its most natural
sequence?

"I expected every moment would be my next," SEYMOUR KEAY said, later, when, with still chattering
teeth, he was describing the episode.

"Tut!" said TIM. "I was only asking you to get up and move that the Land Department (Ireland)
Bill be read a Second Time on that day six months."

While someone went for glass of water and smelling salts for SEYMOUR KEAY, MAURICE HEALY moved
rejection of Bill; Debate arose; TIM storming round the topic with undiminished vigour. But
no one would rise to his tempestuous heights; Debate flittered out; Bill read Second Time;
House up by Seven o'Clock. Business done.--A lot.

Tuesday.--Dreadful rumour when House met that TIM HEALY had ready for delivery speech two hours
long, on Prince ARTHUR in general, and Irish Land Bill in particular. Turned out to be only
TIM's fun. Once or twice in course of brief proceedings he jumped up suddenly, and shouted
out, "Bah!" but only meant to frighten OLD MORALITY. Momentarily had desired effect; soon clear
that nothing serious meant. Appointed Bills advanced through stipulated stages, and OLD MORALITY,
modest in mien, even after the triumph of matchless management displayed in brief Session,
moved Adjournment over Christmas holidays.

Conversation as to arrangement of business on reassembling; Truculent TIM, coming to the front
at least urgent opportunity, demanded that Irish business should not be taken as first Order.
OLD MORALITY promptly gave desired pledge. Then MARJORIBANKS, who, to travesty TREVELYAN's
famous saying, Though a Whip, is a Scottish gentleman, broke the long pause of eloquent silence
cultivated in the Lobby; protested against Scotch Members being placed in inconvenient position,
by being obliged to put in appearance on first day after holidays. Welsh Members echoed plaint
on their part. Why should Tithes Bill be put down for first day?

Pretty to see OLD MORALITY's firm attitude, in face of this demonstration. Had capitulated
to Irish at first sound of TIM's low voice; quite a different thing with inconsiderable people
like the Scotch or Welsh. Almost haughtily protested against possibility of alteration. "Members,"
he said, vaguely remembering copy-book heading, "are made for business, not business for Members."
That settled it. Motion for Adjournment carried; Young GOSSET, with his beaver up, advanced
to remove Mace, and House went off for Christmas holidays.

Business done.--Sittings adjourned till 22nd of January.

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTE ON THE WESTMINSTER PLAY.--The notion of its being performed in "The Dormitory" is delightful.
None of the performers could possibly be offended by the audience doing the right thing in
the right place, and going to sleep.

       *       *       *       *       *

PHILLALOO!

A SONG OF "UNITED IRELAND."

AIR:-"KILLALOE."

  Well, I'm glad that I was born
  In the land the Sassenach scorn,
    For its fondness for a first-class Phillaloo.
  Faix! Home Rule's a purthy schame,
  And on Thursday PARNELL came
    To insthruct us how to floor the "Pathriot" crew.
  I'd one Leader, that I swear,
  Now there's siveral "in the air,"
    And it sthrikes me I've a doubt which one is thrue;
  But whin things are out of jint,
  To decide the tickle pint,
    Faith! there's nothing like a first-class Phillaloo!

    Chorus.

    Ye may talk about McCARTHY,
    As a leader sane and hearthy,
    For to lead the "Pathriot" parthy;
      But ochone! and wirrasthrue!
    It seems anything but aisy
    (Ask DICK POWER and Misther DEASY)
          To lead for long
          A parthy strong
      Widout a Phillaloo!

  PARNELL wiped BODKIN's eye,
  And of all his toype "made pie."
    O'BRIEN telegraphed wid much surprise;
  And brave DILLON "over there,"
  Seemed disposed to tear his hair,
    And TAY PAY inclined to pipe his pathriot eyes.
  Said BODKIN, with alarm,
  "This will do the paper harm,"
    Said LEAMY, "I'm appointed to your place."
  Thin on a float or dray
  They the papers sint away,
    And scatthered all the Staff, and closed the case.

  Chorus.--Ye may talk of J. McCARTHY, &c.

  Ooh, bhoys, there was the fun!
  But the game was far from done.
    United Ireland did not yet appear;
  For whilst NAGLE had stepped out,
  BODKIN came wid comrades stout,
    And a hamper, which was packed with bottled beer.
  PARNELL swore an awful oath
  He'd have law agin 'em both,
    And he came from KENNY's house in Rutland Square;
  And he raised a Phillaloo
  With the aid of followers true,
    And replaced the valiant LEAMY in the chair.

  Chorus.--Ye may talk of J. McCARTHY, &c.

