The statement is sometimes made that the principles of our modern system of tonality and of
modulation are derived from Folk-music. This is only partially true, for pure Folk-songs always
developed under the influence of the old medieval modes, long before the establishment of our
fixed major and minor scales. Furthermore, as these were single unaccompanied melodies, they
showed slight connection with modulation or change of key in the modern sense of the term--which
implies a system of harmonization in several voices. It is true that there was an instinctive
and growing recognition of the importance of the three chief tonal centres: the Tonic or Keynote,
the Dominant (a perfect fifth above) and the Subdominant (a perfect fifth below) and at times
the relative minor. All these changes are illustrated in the melody just cited; e.g., in the
fourth measure[25] there is an implication of E minor, in measures seven and eight there is
a distinct modulation to D major, the Dominant, and in the ninth measure to C major, the Subdominant.
This acceptance of other tonal centres--distant a fifth from the main key-note--doubtless arose
from their simplicity and naturalness, and was later sanctioned by acoustical law; the interval
of a perfect fifth having one of the simplest ratios (2-3), and being familiar to people as
the first overtone (after the octave) struck off by any sounding body--such as a bell or an
organ pipe. The Venetian composers, notably Willaert, had also quite fully developed this principle
of Tonic, Dominant and Subdominant harmony in order to give homogeneity to their antiphonal
choruses. Even to-day these tonal centres are still used; for they are elemental, like the
primitive colors of the spectroscope. But modulation, in the modern sense of a free shifting
of the centre of gravity to any one of the twelve semitones of our chromatic scale, was not
developed and accepted until after the acoustical reforms of Rameau, and the system of tuning
keyed instruments embodied in that work called the Well-tempered Clavichord of Sebastian Bach.
Both these men published their discoveries about the year 1720.

[Footnote 25: In counting the measures of a phrase always consider the first complete measure,--never
a partial measure--as one.]

As we have just used the term modal, and since many Folk-songs in the old modes sound peculiar
or even wrong (hence the preposterous emendations of modern editors!) because our ears can
listen only in terms of the fixed major and minor scales, a few words of explanation concerning
the nature of the medieval modes should here be given. Their essential peculiarity is the freer
relationship of tones and semitones than is found in the definite pattern of our modern scales.
It is of great importance that the music-lover should train himself to think naturally in these
modes; for there has been a significant return to their freedom and variety on the part of
such modern composers as Brahms, Tchaikowsky, Dvo[vr]ák, d'Indy, Debussy and others, and some
of their most individual effects are gained through the introduction of modal types of expression.
The following modes are those most commonly employed in the formation of Folk-songs.

[Music: DORIAN]

[Music: PHRYGIAN]

[Music: LYDIAN]

[Music: MIXOLYDIAN]

[Music: AEOLIAN]

[Music: IONIAN]

The Dorian mode, at the outset, is identical with our modern minor scale; its peculiarity lies
in the semitone between the 6th and 7th degrees and the whole tone between the 7th and 8th.
An excellent example of a modern adaptation of this mode may be found in Guilmant's March for
organ (see Supplement, Example No. 7). The mysterious opening measures of Debussy's opera Pelléas
et Mélisande also owe their atmosphere to this mode, e.g.

[Music]

The Phrygian mode is one of the most individual to our modern ears with its first step a semitone
and with the whole tone between the 7th and 8th degrees. Under the influence of harmonic development
there was worked out a cadence, known as Phrygian, which is often found in modern music, e.g.

[Music]

The opening measures of the slow movement of Brahms's Fourth Symphony are an excellent example
of a melody in the Phrygian mode, e.g.

[Music]

The contrast between these measures, with their archaic flavor, and the sudden change in measure
four to the modern tonality of E major, is very striking. Bach's well-known choral, O Sacred
Head now wounded also begins in the Phrygian mode, e.g.

[Music]

For a beautiful modern example of this Phrygian mode see the introduction to F.S. Converse's
Dramatic Poem Job, for voices and orchestra.

The Lydian mode is identical with our major scale except for the semitone between the 4th and
5th degrees. That this change, however, gives a very characteristic effect may be seen in the
passage by Beethoven from his String-Quartet op. 132--Song of Thanksgiving in the Lydian mode
(see Supplement Ex. No. 8). The Mixolydian mode is also identical with our modern major scale
except for the whole tone between the 7th and 8th degrees. This mode has had very slight usage
in modern music; because, with the development of harmony,[26] the instinct became so strong
for a leading tone (the 7th degree)--only a semitone distant from the upper tonic--that the
original whole tone has gradually disappeared. The Aeolian Mode, mainly identical with our
customary minor scale, has the characteristic whole tone between the 7th and 8th degrees. Examples
of this mode abound in modern literature; two excellent instances being the first theme of
the Finale of Dvo[vr]ák's New World Symphony, e.g.,

[Music]

and the following passage from the Legend for à capella voices of Tchaikowsky, e.g.

[Music]

The Ionian mode corresponds exactly with our modern major scale, and the common people among
all nations early showed a strong predilection for its use. The Church, in fact, because of
this popularity with the people, named it the "modus lascivus" and prohibited its use in the
ecclesiastical liturgy. One of the very earliest Folk-tunes extant--"Sumer is icumen in" (already
referred to)--is in the Ionian mode and, according to Cecil Sharp,[27] the majority of English
Folk-tunes are in this same mode.

[Footnote 26: The chief reason for this leading tone, in addition to the natural tendency of
singers to raise their voices as near as possible to the upper tonic, was so that the dominant
chord, the third of which is always the 7th degree, might invariably be a Major Triad.]

[Footnote 27: For many suggestive comments on the whole subject see his book English Folk-Song.]

We now cite a few typical folk-songs (taken from national sources) which, in their structure,
show a natural instinct for balance of phrase and oftentimes for that organic unity of effect
gained by restatement after contrast.

[Music: THE TRUE LOVERS' FAREWELL

Old English]

The pattern of this song, in the Aeolian mode, is A, A, A, B. Unity is secured by the three-fold
appearance of the first phrase; and a certain balance, by having the second phrase B twice
as long (four measures) as A.

[Music: THE SHIP IN DISTRESS

Old English]

The formula of this characteristic song in the Dorian mode is A, A, B, A; merely an extension,
through repetition, of the simple type A, B, A which, in turn, is the basis of the fundamental
structure known as the three-part form. This will later be studied in detail. It is evident
to the musical sense how complete a feeling of coherence is gained by the return to A after
the intervening contrast of the phrase B; evident, also, that this song is a perfect example
of the principle of unity combined with variety.

We further cite a few examples from Scottish, Irish, French, Hungarian and Russian sources.
They all illustrate quaint melodic intervals and an instinct for balance and symmetry.

[Music: WANDERING WILLIE

    Here awa', there awa', Wanderin' Willie,
    Here awa', there awa', haud awa' hame.
    Come to my bosom, my ain only dearie,
    O tell me thou bring'st me my Willie the same.]

This song[28] expresses that note of pathos often found in Scottish folk-music and is noteworthy
also because the lyric poet, Robert Burns, wrote for it words of which we give the first stanza.

[Footnote 28: The example quoted, together with others equally beautiful, may be found in the
collection edited by the Scottish composer, Hamish MacCunn. See, as well, the Cycle of Old
Scotch Melodies arranged for four solo voices with pianoforte accompaniment by Arthur Whiting.]

[Music: WOULD GOD I WERE THE TENDER APPLE BLOSSOM]

This Irish tune[29] is certainly one of the most perfect that can be imagined, remarkable alike
for its organic unity, gained by the frequent use of the first ascending motive, and for the
manner in which the successive crises are reached. Note in particular the intensity of the
final climax, in measure 13, attained by a repetition of the preceding phrase.

[Footnote 29: For Irish folk-songs the best collections are the one by Villiers Stanford and
a Cycle by Arthur Whiting, prepared in the same way as that just cited on Scottish melodies.]

[Music: EN PASSANT PAR LA LORRAINE AVEC MES SABOTS]

This charming song[30] from Lorraine exemplifies that rhythmic vivacity and lightness of touch
so characteristic of the French.

[Footnote 30: Taken from an excellent collection of Chansons Populaires edited by Julien Tiersot.]

Observe the piquant effect, in the final phrase, produced by the elision of a measure; there
being in the whole song 31 measures instead of the normal 32 (16 + 16).

[Music: Old Hungarian Folk-song]

Hungarian folk-music[31] is noted for its syncopated rhythm and its peculiar metric groupings.
It is also often highly embroidered with chromatic notes; the Hungarian scale, with two augmented
intervals, being an intensification of our minor mode, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 31: The best popular collection of Hungarian melodies is that by Francis Korbay,
the texts for which were translated and arranged by the American novelist, J.S. of Dale. It
is well known what artistic use has been made of Hungarian melodies and rhythms by Schubert,
Liszt and Brahms.]

Russia is fortunate in her musical inheritance; for not only has she a wealth of folk-songs,
but her famous composers, Balakireff, Borodin and Rimsky-Korsakoff--who are men of letters
as well--have published remarkable editions of these national melodies. The Russian folk-songs
express, in general, a mood of sombreness or even depression--typical of the vast, bleak expanses
of that country, and of its downtrodden people. These songs are usually in the minor mode--often
with sudden changes of rhythm--and based on the old ecclesiastical modes, the Russian liturgy
being very ancient and having an historical connection with that of the Greek church. The folk-music
of no nation is more endowed with individuality and depth of emotion. Five characteristic examples
are herewith cited:

[Music: I]

[Music: II]

[Music: III Harmonized by RIMSKY-KORSAKOFF]

[Music: IV]

[Music: V]

This last melody is of particular significance, because Tchaikowsky has used it so prominently
in the Finale of his Fourth Symphony.

The growing interest in folk-music in America is a tendency concerning which the progressive
student should inform himself. For a national basis of creative work, our country has always
been at a disadvantage in comparison with nations which, as their birthright, have much music
in their blood. Moreover, with the exception of the tunes of the aboriginal Indians and the
plantation melodies of the Negroes, it has been asserted that America could boast no folk-songs.
Recent investigations have shown, however, that this is not entirely true. Cecil Sharp, Henry
Gilbert, Arthur Farwell and other musical scholars have proved that there are several regions
of our country, settled by colonists from England, Ireland and Scotland, where folk-songs exist
practically in the condition in which they were first brought over. One of the best collections
of such material is the set of so-called Lonesome Tunes from the Kentucky Mountains, taken
down by Miss Lorraine Wyman and Mr. Howard Brockway directly from the mountaineers and other
dwellers in that region. These melodies have great individuality, directness and no little
poetic charm. It is certainly encouraging to feel that, in this industrial age, there are still
places where people express their emotions and ideals in song; for a nation that has not learned
to sing--or has forgotten how--can never create music that endures.

CHAPTER III

POLYPHONIC MUSIC; SEBASTIAN BACH

We have traced, in the preceding chapter, some of the fundamental principles of design in musical
expression, as they were manifested in the Folk-music of the different nations. All music of
this type was homophonic, i.e., a single melodic line, either entirely unaccompanied or with
a slight amount of instrumental support. Hence however perfect in itself, it was necessarily
limited in scope and in opportunity for organic development. Before music could become an independent
art, set free from reliance on poetry, and could attain to a breadth of expression commensurate
with the growth in other fields of art, there had to be established some principle of development,
far more extensive than could be found in Folk-music. This principle[32] of "Thematic Development"--the
chief idiom of instrumental music--by which a motive or a theme is expanded into a large symphonic
movement, was worked out in that type of music known as the Polyphonic or many-voiced; and
Polyphonic music became, in turn, the point of departure for our modern system of harmony,
with its methods of key relationship and of modulation. As we have stated in Chapter I, the
principle of systematic repetition or imitation--first discovered and partially applied by
the musicians[33] of the early French School and by the Netherland masters--finally culminated
in the celebrated vocal works (à capella or unaccompanied) composed by Palestrina and his contemporaries
for the Roman Catholic Liturgy. Up to this point the whole texture of music had been conceived
in connection with voices; but with the development of the organ, so admirably suited for polyphonic
style, and the perfection of the family of stringed instruments, the principles of polyphony
were carried over and applied to instrumental treatment. The composer who, through his constructive
genius, most fully embodied these principles[34] was John Sebastian Bach (1685-1750). We are
now prepared to explain the characteristics of polyphonic music and then to analyze some typical
examples from Bach and other polyphonic composers. The essential difference between homophonic
and polyphonic style is implied by the terms themselves. When there is but one melody, the
skill of the composer and the attention of the listener are concentrated upon this single melodic
line; and even if there be an accompaniment, it is so planned that the chief melody stands
out in relief against it. The pre-eminence of this chief melody is seldom usurped, although
the accompaniment often has interesting features of its own. As soon as we have more than one
melody (whether there be two, three or still others) all these voice-parts may be of coequal
importance, and the musical fabric becomes an interwoven texture of a number of strands. The
genius and skill of the composer is now expended on securing life and interest for each of
these voices--soprano, alto, tenor, bass--which seem to be braided together; and thus a much
more comprehensive attention is required of the listener. For instead of the single melody
in the soprano, or upper voice, of the Folk-song, we now must listen consciously to the bass
and to both of the inner voices.[35] Too much emphasis cannot be laid upon the recommendation
that, in appreciating music, the first task is to train the ear to a wide range of listening.
These differences in style are often apparent just as a pattern of design--to be seen from
the following examples:

[Music: Homophonic Style. Irish Folk-Song]

[Music: Polyphonic Style. BACH: Fugue in C Minor]

[Footnote 32: The statement might be qualified by saying that, since Beethoven, instrumental
style has become a happy mixture of homophony for the chief melodies and polyphony for the
supporting harmonic basis. Stress is laid in the above text on the polyphonic aspect merely
to emphasize the matter under discussion.]

[Footnote 33: Notable names are Léonin and Pérotin, both organists of Nôtre Dame at Paris.]

[Footnote 34: Although this is not the place to set forth all the details of this development,
in the interest of historical justice we should not think of Bach without gratefully acknowledging
the remarkable work of such pioneers as the Dutchman, Sweelinck (1562-1621), organist at Amsterdam;
the Italian, Frescobaldi (1583-1644), organist at Rome, and--greatest of all, in his stimulating
influence upon Bach--the Dane, Buxtehude (1636-1707), organist at Lübeck. Sweelinck and Frescobaldi
may fairly be called the founders of the genuine Fugue, and there is a romantic warmth in Buxtehude's
best work which makes it thoroughly modern in sentiment.]

[Footnote 35: In connection with the statement that music has developed according to natural
law, it is worth noting that the four-part chorus early became the standard for both vocal
and instrumental groups for the simple reason that there exist two kinds of women's voices--soprano
and alto, and two of men's voices--tenor and bass. Originally, the chief voice in the ecclesiastical
chorus was the tenor (teneo), because the tenors sustained the melody. Below them were the
basses (bassus, low); above the tenors came the altos (altus, high) and still higher the sopranos
(sopra, above).]

In the latter example it is evident that there is an interweaving of three distinct melodic lines.

The polyphonic instrumental works of Bach and his contemporaries were called by such names
as Preludes, Fugues, Canons, Inventions, Toccatas and Fantasies; but since a complete account
of all these forms would lead too far afield, we shall confine ourselves to a description of
the Canon, the Invention and the Fugue. A Canon (from the Greek [Greek: Kanôn], meaning a strict
rule or law) is a composition in which there is a literal systematic imitation, carried out
to the end, between two or more of the voices (often with subsidiary voices filling in), and
may be considered a kind of musical dialogue in which the second, or answering, part reënforces
the message previously uttered by the leading voice. This imitation may take place at any degree
of separation; and Canons are in existence at the interval of the second, third, fourth, fifth,
etc. The most effective Canons, however, are those in which the answering voice is an octave
away from the leading one. Although the Canon is not a form employed frequently by modern composers
for an entire composition, Canonic imitation appears so often in all large works for orchestra,
string quartet or ensemble combinations, that the music-lover should acquire a certain ease
in listening to a structure of this type. The Canon, moreover, is an integral factor in the
style of César Franck, d'Indy and Brahms; and illustrations of its use abound in their works.
The organ is particularly well suited to the rendition of Canons; since, by its facilities
for tone-color, the two voices may be clearly contrasted. Those interested in organ literature
should become acquainted with the following excellent examples: The Canon in B-flat major,
op. 40, by Guilmant; the 4th movement of the Fifth Organ Symphony by Widor; the Canon in B
minor, op. 54, by Schumann; the Canon in F-sharp major, op. 30, by Merkel, and the set of Ten
Canonic studies, op. 12, by G.W. Chadwick. In other fields of composition the following should
be cited: The set of Pianoforte Pieces in Canon form, op. 35, by Jadassohn; a like set by Rheinberger,
op. 180; the Canonic Vocal Trios, op. 156, by Reinecke and the famous Canon from the first
act of Beethoven's opera Fidelio. There is also a beautiful bit of Canonic imitation between
two of the upper voices in the introduction of Berlioz's Carnaval Romain Overture for orchestra.
One of the most appealing Canons in modern literature is the setting for soprano and barytone,
by Henschel, of the poem Oh that we two were Maying by Charles Kingsley. This example alone
would sufficiently corroborate the statement that the firmness of structure inherent in the
canonic form is perfectly compatible with genuine freedom and poetry of inspiration. In the
first movement of César Frank's Symphony in D minor, at the recapitulation (page 39 of the
full score) may be found a magnificent example of the intensity of effect gained by a canonic
imitation of the main theme--in this instance between the lower and upper voices. Possibly
the finest example of canonic writing in all literature is the Finale of César Franck's Sonata
in A major for Violin and Pianoforte in which, for several pages, there is an eloquent dialogue
between the two contrasting instruments. The movement is too long for citation but it should
certainly be procured and studied. In the Trio of the Scherzo in Beethoven's Seventh Sonata
for Violin and Pianoforte there is a free use of canonic imitation which will repay investigation.
Lastly, the Aria with 30 Variations--the so-called Goldberg Variations of Bach--is a perfect
storehouse of every conceivable canonic device.

A few standard examples are to be found in the Supplement. These should be played over and
studied until they are thoroughly familiar--not only for the pleasure to be derived, but for
the indispensable training afforded in polyphonic listening.

Ex. No. 9 Canon by Thomas Tallys (1510-1585).

Ex. No. 10 Canonic Variation by Schumann from the Études Symphoniques.

Ex. No. 11 of Bach's Goldberg Variations.

Ex. No. 12 Canon in B-flat minor, op. 38, Grieg.

Ex. No. 13 Canon in F-sharp major, op. 35, Jadassohn.

One of the most simple and direct types of polyphonic composition is the form known as the
Invention in which, as the term implies, the composer--through his inventive genius and by
means of the polyphonic devices of imitation and transposition--develops to a logical conclusion
some short and characteristic motive. We are fortunate in having from Bach himself, that consummate
master of polyphony, two sets of such Inventions: fifteen for two voices, and fifteen for three.
These flights of fancy--in which art so subtly conceals art--though originally composed for
the clavichord and harpsichord (the precursors of the pianoforte), are very effective on our
modern instrument and should be in the possession of every music-student.[36] A brief analysis
is now given of the first one in the set for two voices, and Nos. 4, 8 and 10 in this set are
particularly recommended for study; also Nos. 2, 6 and 14 among those for three voices. The
opening motive

[Music]

is the foundation of the entire composition and is at once imitated, canonically, in the lower
voice. Then the two voices play about, with figures clearly derived from the motive, until
we reach, in measures three and four, a systematic downward transposition of the material.
Such transpositions or shiftings up or down in pitch are called Sequences. They are very frequent
in all polyphonic composition, give a strong sense of unity to melodic progression and are
generally carried out in groups of three, i.e., the original figure and two repetitions. After
the sequence the music naturally works toward the most nearly related key (the dominant) and
in the seventh measure reaches in that key its first objective. These Inventions of Bach, as
well as the Dance forms soon to be studied, are almost invariably in what is known as Two-part
form, i.e., the music consists of two main divisions, clearly marked off by cadences[37]; the
first of which modulates to the dominant or some related key while the second part, starting
in this key, works back to a final close in the home key. In Inventions it early became customary
in the second part to begin with the same motive as the first--but in the opposite voice. Thus
we see, in the Invention now being discussed, that the seventh measure begins with the original
motive in the bass which, in turn, is imitated by the Soprano--a process just the reverse of
that in the opening measures.

[Footnote 36: The best edition is that by Busoni, published by Breitkopf and Härtel.]

[Footnote 37: This technical term as well as others will later be more fully explained.]

[Music]

In pieces in this Two-part form the second portion is generally longer than the first; for
the composer, by the time he has reached this second part, may consider the material sufficiently
familiar to be expanded and varied by excursions into more remote keys, and by more intricate
manipulations of the chief motive. In measure 11 we find a modulation to D minor and then,
after some free treatment of the motive, we reach--in measure 15--a cadence in A minor. A long
sequential passage brings us, through a modulation to the subdominant key of F major (in measures
18 and 19), to a strong closing cadence in the home key. It should be noticed that in this
Invention and in some of the dance forms there is shown a strong leaning towards a tripartite
division of the material as is indicated by the three cadences in measures 7, 15 and 22. Since,
however, the middle part is lacking in any strong contrast--which is such an essential factor
in the fully developed three-part form--it seems better to consider this piece, and others
like it, as a tendency rather than as a complete embodiment of tripartite arrangement. It is
expected that the music lover will take these Inventions for what they really are and not search
in them for those notes of intense subjectivity and dramatic power so prevalent in modern music.
They are merely little pieces--a "tour de force" in polyphonic ingenuity; music rejoicing in
its own inherent vitality. Accepted in this spirit they are invigorating and charming.

The form in which polyphonic skill reaches its highest possibilities is the Fugue; and the
immortal examples of this form are the Fugues of John Sebastian Bach, found in his Well-tempered
Clavichord and in his mighty works for the organ. The fundamental structure of a fugue is implied
in the term itself (from the Latin "fuga"--flight); that is, in a fugue the main theme or subject
is always announced in a single voice, and the remaining voices, appearing successively in
accordance with definite principles of key-relationship, seem to chase each other about and
to flee from pursuit. The several stratified entrances of the subject are relieved by intermediate
passages called "Episodes." An Episode, as shown by the derivation ([Greek: ipi hodos], by
the way), is something off the beaten path--a digression; and it is in these episodical portions
of a fugue rather than in the formalistic portions that the genius of the composer shines forth.
This is especially true of Bach, for almost any well-trained musician can invent a subject
which will allow of satisfactory fugal treatment according to accepted usage; but no one save
Bach has ever invented such free and fanciful episodes--so daring in scope and yet so closely
connected with the main thought. The general effect of a fugue is cumulative: a massing and
piling up of voices that lead to a carefully designed conclusion which, in some of Bach's organ
fugues, is positively overwhelming. A fugue may be called a mighty crescendo, like the sound
of many waters. There is a popular conception, or rather misconception, that a fugue is a labored,
dull or even "dry" form of composition, meant only as an exhibition of pedantic skill, and
quite beyond the reach of ordinary musical appreciation. Nothing is farther from the truth,
as a slight examination of musical literature will show. For we see that the fugal form has
been used to express well-nigh every form of human emotion, the sublime, the tragic, the romantic;
very often the humorous and the fantastic. When we recall the irresistible sparkle and dash
of Mozart's Magic Flute Overture, of the Overture to the Bartered Bride by Smetana, of the
Finale of Mozart's Jupiter Symphony, and of many of the fugues in the Well-tempered Clavichord,
it is evident that to call a fugue "dry" is an utter abuse of language. It is true that there
are weak, artificial and dull fugues, where the composer--frankly--had nothing to say and merely
filled out the form; but the same may be said of every type of composition, i.e., among them
all are examples inspired and--less inspired. This, however, is no indictment of the fugue
per se, against which the only thing to be said is that it requires on the part of the listener
an exceeding concentration. Some of the masterpieces of the world being wholly or partially
in the fugal form, it is the duty of those listening to polyphonic music to train their powers
to the same seriousness of attention expected and freely given in the appreciation of an oration,
a drama or a cathedral. These latter manifestations of artistic expression, to be sure, are
less abstract than the fugue and more closely related to daily life. Yet no effort is more
repaying than the mental and emotional energy expended in listening to the interweavings of
a good fugue; for, conscious of missing the periodic divisions of the Folk-song, we have to
listen to more than one melody at a time. A fugue being a composition, as the French say, of
"longue haleine," our attention, in order to follow its structure, must be on the "qui vive"
every moment. The fugue, in fact, is an example of the intricate and yet organic complexity
found in all the higher forms of life itself; and whenever a composer has wished to dwell with
emphasis on a particular theme, he almost invariably resorts to some form of fugal treatment,
strict or free. The most effective media for rendering fugues are the chorus of mixed voices,
the organ (by reason of its pedal key-board always making the subject in the bass stand out
majestically) and the stringed orchestra which, with the "bite" of the strings, brings out--with
peculiar sharpness--the different entrances of the subject. The student should become familiar
with standard examples in each of these classes and should, above all, seek opportunity to
hear some of the organ fugues of Bach performed on a really fine instrument. A few well-known
fugues are herewith cited in order to stimulate the student to some investigation of his own.
In all the Oratorios of Handel and in the choral works of Bach, such as the B minor Mass, may
be found magnificent fugues--as free and vital in their rhythmic swing as the ocean itself.
Particular attention should be called to the fugue in the Messiah "And by His stripes we were
healed ." One of the most impressive fugues in modern literature is the à capella chorus Urbs
Syon Unica from H.W. Parker's Hora Novissima. From among the organ works of Bach everyone should
know the Fugues in G minor, in A minor, in D major[38] and the Toccata and Fugue in D minor.
These have all been transcribed for the pianoforte by Liszt and so are readily available; they
are often played at pianoforte recitals by Paderewski and other virtuosi. In hearing one of
these masterpieces no one can remain unmoved or can fail to reverence the constructive genius
which fashioned such cathedrals in tone. For orchestra we have the Prelude to Puccini's opera
Madama Butterfly, and the beginning of the Prelude to the third act of Wagner's Mastersingers.
There are striking fugal passages in Beethoven's Symphonies, e.g., the first movement of the
Heroic Symphony and the rollicking Trio of the Scherzo in the Fifth Symphony. In more modern
literature there is the fugal Finale to Arthur Foote's Suite for Orchestra and in Chadwick's
Vagrom Ballad a humorous quotation of the theme from Bach's G minor Fugue for organ. One of
the most superb fugues in free style is the last movement of César Franck's Prelude, Choral
and Fugue in B minor for Pianoforte. This movement alone would refute all charges of dullness
or dryness brought against the fugue by the unthinking or the unenlightened. A good fugue,
in fact, is so full of vitality and demands such active comprehension[39] on the part of the
listener that it is not difficult to imagine where the dullness and dryness are generally found.

[Footnote 38: Whenever Percy Grainger performs this fugue in his own arrangement for pianoforte,
he always electrifies an audience.]

[Footnote 39: It is worthy of observation that, for those who will listen to them intelligently,
fugues do not merely demand such a state of mind but actually generate it.]

At this point by an analysis of a fugue from the Well-tempered Clavichord, let us explain some
of the technical features in fugal structure. We shall then be in a position to understand
the more subtle devices of fugal treatment and to appreciate more enthusiastically some additional
comments upon Bach's style in general.

FUGUE IN E-FLAT MAJOR, NO. VII, IN THE FIRST BOOK.

[Music: Subject

Counter-subject

Answer]

This fugue in three voices begins with a graceful subject, announced in the upper voice. In
the third measure this is answered by an imitation of the subject in the alto; while the opening
voice continues with a contrasting part called the counter-subject.[40] As the whole subsequent
fabric is organically derived from these two motives, both subject and counter-subject should
be played frequently and so committed to memory. Observe also the contrasts in rhythm and melodic
outline between the subject and counter-subject. In measures 4 and 5 we have a short sequential
passage leading, in measure 6, to the third entry of the subject in the bass. Then after another
sequential passage, which includes an emphatic assertion of the subject in the soprano (measures
11 and 12), we enter upon a long episode which leads, at measure 17, to our first objective
point of rest--a cadence in C minor. With the entry, in this measure, of the subject in the
alto we have an interesting example of what is termed "shifted rhythm;" the subject beginning
on the third beat instead of the first, as at the outset. In the middle portion of the fugue
we have two appearances of the subject in the related keys of C minor (measures 17 and 18)
and G minor (measures 20 and 21). Then, following two very vigorous sequences, a modulatory
return is made to the subject in the home key, and with its normal rhythm at measure 26. A
repetition, in more brilliant form, of one of the previous episodes, in measures 31 and 32,
gives a strong impression of unity; leading in measures 34 and 35 to a last appearance of the
subject, with a beautiful change in one of the intervals (E-flat-G-flat). The closing measures
establish the main tonality of E-flat major, rendered still more expressive by the counterpoint
associated with the last chord. As to the general structure of this fugue, it is evidently
tripartite, the first part A presenting the material, the second part B affording variety by
modulating into different keys, and the third part A´ reasserting the material of A and bringing
the composition to a logical close in the home key. (See Supplement Ex. No. 15.)

[Footnote 40: It is left to the teacher to explain to the student the key-relationship of Subject
and Answer, and the difference between fugues, tonal and real; for as these points have rather
more to do with composition they play but a slight part in listening to a fugue.]

We should now acquaint ourselves with the more subtle devices of fugal treatment; although
but one of these is employed in the fugue just studied, which is comparatively simple in structure.
I. Inversion; the melodic outline is turned upside down while identity is retained by means
of the rhythm, e.g.

[Music: BACH: 3rd English Suite

Theme

Inversion]

An excellent example from an orchestral work is the theme of the third movement of Brahms's
C minor Symphony, the second phrase of which is an Inversion of the opening measures, e.g.

[Music: Inversion]

II. Augmentation and Diminution; the length of the notes is doubled or halved while their metrical
relativity is maintained, e.g.

[Music: BACH: Fugue No. 8, Book I

Theme

Augmentation]

[Music: BACH: Fugue No. IX, Book II

Theme

Diminution]

Augmentation is very frequent in modern literature when a composer, by lengthening out the
phraseology of a theme, wishes to gain for it additional emphasis. Excellent examples are the
closing measures of Schumann's Arabesque, in which the reminiscence of the original motto is
most haunting, e.g.,

[Music: Motto]

[Music: Motto augmented]

the Finale of Liszt's Faust Symphony, where the love theme of the Gretchen movement is carried
over and intoned by a solo baritone with impressive effect, e.g.

[Music]

[Music: In augmentation

Das ewig Weibliche]

III. Shifted Rhythm; the position of the subject in the measure is so changed that the accents
fall on different beats, e.g.

[Music: BACH: Fugue No. V, Book II

Subject

Shifted]

IV. Stretto; (from the Italian verb "stringere," to draw close) that portion of a fugue, often
the climax, where the entrances are crowded together, i.e., the imitating voice enters before
the leading voice has finished, e.g.

[Music: Fuga giocosa, J.K. PAINE, op. 41

Subject]

The effect is obviously one of great concentration and dramatic intensity--with a sense of
impending climax--and its use is by no means limited to fugal composition; being frequently
found in all large symphonic works of the classic and modern school. For a magnificent example
of the climactic effect produced by a Stretto, witness the last part of Bach's Fugue in G major
(see Supplement, Ex. No. 16).

Although there is considerable complexity in any complete fugue, and although it requires great
concentration on the part of the listener, we should avoid thinking of the form as mechanical
in any derogatory sense, but rather as a means to a definite artistic end. Certainly no greater
mistake can be made than that of considering Bach, the supreme master of polyphonic writing,
as too austere, too involved, for the delight and edification of every-day mortals. Bach means
brook, and the name[41] is most appropriate; for Bach is a never ceasing stream of musical
life, the fountain-head from which spring the leading tendencies of modern music. In these
days when stress is laid on the romantic element in music, on warm emotional appeal, it is
well to consider the quality so prevalent in Bach of spiritual vitality. Exactly because the
romantic element represents the human side of music, it is subject to the whims of fashion
and is liable to change and decay. Bach carries us into the realm of universal ideas, inexhaustible
and changeless in their power to exalt. Schumann says that "Music owes to Bach what a religion
owes to its founder"; and it is true that a knowledge of Bach is the beginning of musical wisdom.
By some, Bach is considered dry or too reserved for companionship with ordinary human beings.
Others carelessly assert that he has no melody. Nothing can be further from the truth than
these two misconceptions. Bach surely is not dry, because his work abounds in such vitality
of rhythm. As Parry says, in his biography, "No composer ever attained to anything approaching
the spontaneity, freshness, and winsomeness of his dances, such as the gavottes, bourrées,
passepieds and gigues in the suites; while many of his great choruses and instrumental fugues
are inspired with a force of rhythmic movement which thrills the hearer with a feeling of being
swept into space out of the range of common things." The charge of a lack of melody is the
same which used to be brought against Wagner. Instead of there being no melody, it is all melody,
so that the partially musical, who lack the power of sustained attention, are drowned in the
flood of melodic outpouring. A strong claim, in fact, may be made for Bach as a popular composer
in the best sense of the term. Many of his colossal works, to be sure, are heard but seldom,
for they require the most highly trained executive ability. But if the average music-lover
will become familiar with the French and English Suites, with the Preludes and Fugues of the
Well-tempered Clavichord, with some of the Violin Sonatas, he will find for his imagination
and mental machinery a food which, once enjoyed, becomes indispensable. For his music has that
greatest of qualities in art as in human relationships--it wears well and lasts. We all know
that books which reveal everything at a first reading are soon thrown aside, and that people
whose depth of character and sweetness of disposition we discern but slowly, often become our
life-long friends. Music which is too easily heard is identical with that which is immediately
forgotten. The first impulse created by any great work of art is our longing to know it better.
Its next attribute is its power to arouse and hold our steady affection. These observations
may be applied literally to Bach's music, which can be heard for a lifetime, never losing its
appeal but continually unfolding new beauties. Furthermore, in Bach, we feel the force of a
great character even more than the artistic skill with which the personality is revealed. In
this respect Bach in music is quite on a par with Shakespeare in literature and Michael Angelo
in plastic art. With many musicians, there is so disconcerting and inexplicable a discrepancy
between their deeds as men and the artistic thoughts for which they seem to be the unconscious
media, that it is inspiring to come into touch with one who rings true as a man whatever demands
are made upon him; whose music is free from morbidity or carnal blemish, as pure as the winter
wind, as elemental as the ocean, as uplifting as the stars. In Bach let us always remember
the noble human traits; for the universal regard in which his work is held could never have
come merely from profound skill in workmanship, but is due chiefly to the manly sincerity and
emotional depth which are found therein. The revival of his works, for which the world owes
to Mendelssohn such a debt, has been the single strongest factor in the development of music
during the 19th century; and their influence[42] is by no means yet at an end, as may be seen
from the glowing tributes paid to him by such modern composers as Franck, d'Indy and Debussy.[43]

[Footnote 41: Beethoven, commenting on the name, majestically said: "He is no brook; he is
the open sea!"]

[Footnote 42: For a very suggestive article on this point by Philip Greeley Clapp see the Musical
Quarterly for April, 1916.]

[Footnote 43: Some eloquent comments on Bach's style and significance may be found in Chapter
III of The Appreciation of Music by Surette and Mason.]

Two additional fugues are now given in the Supplement (see Nos. 17 and 18) for the consideration
of the student: the Cat-Fugue of Domenico Scarlatti, with its fantastic subject (said to have
been suggested by the walking of a favorite cat on the key-board) and the Fuga Giocosa of John
Knowles Paine, (the subject of which is the well-known street-tune "Rafferty's lost his pig").
This latter example is not only a brilliant piece of fugal writing but a typical manifestation
of American humor.

Several eulogies of the fugue are to be found in literature; three of the most famous are herewith
appended.

    "Hist, but a word, fair and soft!
    Forth and be judged, Master Hugues!
    Answer the question I've put you so oft:
    What do you mean by your mountainous fugues?
    See, we're alone in the loft."

    --Browning, Master Hugues of Saxe-Gotha.

Throughout, a most fantastic description of fugal style.

Truly a marvellous picture of the effect of a fugue in a great medieval cathedral!

CHAPTER IV

THE MUSICAL SENTENCE

Before passing on to an explanation of the fundamental types of musical structure, we must
give some idea of the constituent parts of the Period in music. Every art has its units of
expression: the straight line, the curve, the arch, the poetic stanza and the prose sentence.
Just as poetry and prose are a series of stanzas or sentences, so a musical composition is
a succession of definitely organized portions of thought and emotion, in terms of rhythm and
sound. In the heart of a composition, to be sure, we often find a great freedom in the phraseology,
comparable to blank verse or to a rhapsodic kind of prose; but with few exceptions, such as
a Fantasie, every composition always begins with one or two periods which, in regard to subdivision,
balance and directness of statement, are carefully planned and are complete in themselves.
Before it is possible to follow intelligently the structure of a musical sentence we must gain
a clear idea of what is meant by the frequently used terms Tonality and Modulation. Since the
evolution and acceptance of our three modern scales:[44] the major, the minor and the chromatic--which
gained their sanction chiefly through the investigations and compositions of Bach and Rameau--every
melody and the accompanying harmony are said to be in a certain "tonality" (or "key") which
takes its name from the first tone of the scale in question, e.g., C, E-flat, F sharp, etc.
Hence this first tone is called the Tonic or chief tone and from it ascend the other tones
of the scale. That is, a melody in E-flat major will employ only those tones found in the scale
of E-flat major, and is said to be in that "key," or "tonality." The same would be true of
the harmony involved, i.e., the chords would consist of combinations of the different tones
of this scale. When a melody, as is often the case, employs tones not found in the scale in
question, these are called chromatic[45] changes, and may or may not effect a "modulation"
or departure into another key, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 44: It is assumed that the music-lover has, as his birthright, an instinctive knowledge
of the grouping of tones and semitones in our modern scales. Those who may wish to refresh
their knowledge are recommended to the second Chapter in Foote and Spalding's Harmony, and
to the chapter on Scales in Parry's Evolution of the Art of Music.]

[Footnote 45: Color in music is brought about chiefly through their use.]

The most important means of gaining unity and coherence in a composition is to have it written
in a clearly defined tonality, especially at the outset. This definite tonality is the "centre
of gravity," so to speak, about which the whole composition revolves. If this tonal centre
were uncertain or wandering, we should have a feeling of vagueness and perplexity which, except
for special dramatic effect, is never found in works of the great composers. Thus we speak
of a Symphony in C minor, of a Quartet in F major and of a Sonata in B-flat minor;[46] this
foundation key being comparable to the basic color-scheme of a painting. There is also a particular
aesthetic effect and color-appeal associated with each key; and the listener should train himself
to be sensitive to the brilliance of such keys as D major and E major, the richness of B major,
the dignity of E-flat major, the almost cloying sweetness of D-flat major and of G-flat major
and the tragic depth of B minor and G minor. No piece, however, should remain for long in the
same key; for music cuts so deeply into the consciousness that there would result an intolerable
monotony.[47] Even in the simplest folk-songs, therefore, we often find manifested an instinct
for those changes of tonal centre which are technically called "Modulations." All the keys
founded on the twelve semitones of the chromatic scale are related--though in varying degrees
of closeness; and in modern music, no matter how complex the modulations often sound, we may
be sure that the composer plans them as carefully as the painter adjusts his color-scheme.
For definite acoustical[48] and harmonic reasons, however, the keys most closely related to
a given tonal centre are those situated a perfect fifth above--the Dominant; a perfect fifth
below--the Subdominant; and the Relative Minor, the key-note of which is a minor third below,
e.g., A minor in relation to C major, C minor to E-flat major. The relative minors of the Dominant
and Subdominant also bear a close relationship to a given tonic; and into these five keys is
made a large majority of the modulations in any piece of music.[49]

[Music:

Subdominant  Tonic     Dominant

Relative     Relative  Relative Minor        Minor     Minor]

[Footnote 46: As for example the famous one of Chopin.]

[Footnote 47: Even great composers have at times made this mistake, e.g., Mendelssohn in the
first movement of the Scotch Symphony, where the interminable length of the portion in A minor
(of all keys!) is simply deadening in its effect. Compare also the Prelude to the Rheingold;
where, however--for dramatic purposes--to depict the world as "without form and void" Wagner
remains in the key of E-flat major for some 150 measures!]

[Footnote 48: It is left to the teacher to explain, by the ratios found in the overtones of
the Harmonic Series, the validity of this statement.]

[Footnote 49: Some modern theorists, e.g., Calvacoressi (see the New Music Review for September,
1909) have thought that the dominant relationship was "overworked." It is true that the great
charm of modern music is its freedom and boldness in modulation; but the dominant keys can
never be entirely abandoned, for the relationship between them and a tonic is as elemental
as that between the colors of the spectroscope.]

Beginning with Beethoven, a modulation into what are known as the mediant keys became frequent;
and is, in fact, a favorite change in all modern music--the mediant keys being those situated
half-way between a Tonic and Dominant or a Tonic and Subdominant, e.g.

[Music: Sub-mediant Mediant]

Anyone at all familiar with Beethoven's style will remember how often his second theme, instead
of following the more conventional line of dominant relationship, is in a mediant key. Good
examples may be found in the first movement of the Waldstein Sonata and in the first and last
movements of the 8th Symphony. A little thought will make clear that the relationships just
set forth include nearly all the possible ones save those of 2nds and 7ths. Even into these
apparently distant keys, e.g., to D-flat major or to B major from C major, modulations may
easily be made by means of the "enharmonic"[50] relationship found in that frequently used
modern chord--the Augmented Sixth, e.g.

[Music: C major B major C major D-flat major]

[Footnote 50: Two tones are said to be "enharmonic" when, although written differently, they
sound the same on an instrument of fixed temperament like the pianoforte, or organ, e.g., D-sharp
and E-flat, E and F-flat. A violin, however, can make a distinction between such notes and
often does.]

Next to rhythm, modulation is the most stimulating and enchanting element in music. No composition
of any scope can be considered truly great unless it abounds in beautiful modulations. Certain
composers, to be sure, have in this respect more genius than others--notably Schubert, Chopin,
Wagner and Franck whose music seems to waft us along on a magic carpet of delight. But just
as Unity depends upon a definite basic tonality, so Variety is gained by this very freedom
of modulation. Without it is monotony; with too much modulation, an irritating restlessness.
By the perfect balance in his works of these two related elements a genius may be definitely
recognized.

The simplest and on the whole most frequent type of musical sentence or period consists of
eight measures, subdivided into two balancing phrases of four measures[51] each--the component
parts plainly indicated by various cadences and endings soon to be explained. These four-measure
phrases are often, though not invariably, still further subdivided into two sections of two
measures each. Let us now corroborate these statements by an examination of the opening sentence
of the Scherzo of Beethoven's Second Sonata for Pianoforte. This concise sentence is an epitome
of the chief principles of organic musical expression. At the outset[52] we see the leading
motive, which consists of an ascending broken chord twice repeated. We see also

[Music]

the first phrase of 4 measures and the second phrase[53] of similar length, alike subdivided
into two sections of 2 measures each. In the third measure we find a modulation into the dominant
key (indicated by the D-sharp) and in the fourth measure a cadence with a feminine ending in
this key. The second--or after--phrase corresponds exactly to what has gone before: we have
the same repetition of the motive in a different part of the scale; and finally, in the 8th
measure, a cadence in the home key, also with feminine ending.

[Footnote 51: This assertion holds for most of our Western European music; though in Hungarian
and Scotch music we find a natural fondness for phrases of three measures, and the Croatians
are known for their phrases of five measures so often used by both Haydn and Schubert. But
it is true that we tend to think in groups which are some multiple of 2, i.e., either 4, 8,
12 or 16 measures.]

[Footnote 52: Always count the first complete measure as one.]

[Footnote 53: The two phrases are often designated Thesis and Antithesis.]

[Music]

When the sentence is played, it is evident how unsatisfactory would be the effect if a complete
stop were attempted at the 4th measure; and how symmetrical and convincing is the impression
when the eight measures are considered an unbroken sweep of musical thought.[54] There are,
in fact, a few complete compositions in musical literature which contain but a single sentence
of eight measures. As an example may be cited the song from Schumann's Lieder Album für Jugend,
op. 79, No. 1. (See Supplement No. 19.) For purposes of practical appreciation[55] it is enough
to state that a cadence is an accepted combination of chords (generally the tonic, dominant
and subdominant) which indicates that some objective, either temporary or final, has been reached.
When the dominant chord or any dominant harmony is immediately followed by the tonic the cadence
is called perfect or final, and may be compared to a period in punctuation, e.g.

[Music] [Music: CÉSAR FRANCK]

[Footnote 54: In listening to a clock it is impossible to think of the ticks singly, or otherwise
than in groups of two: an accented beat and an unaccented; although the beats are of equal
strength and duration. This principle of dual balance is derived from the rhythmic pulsation
of the human heart and, as we shall see, runs through all music.]

[Footnote 55: Whenever this book is used in class, the teacher can easily explain, on the pianoforte
and by charts, the different cadential effects. For those who have sufficient harmonic insight
Chapter XIV in Foote and Spalding's Modern Harmony is worth consulting.]

A reversal of this order produces what is called the half-cadence, akin to the semicolon, e.g.

[Music]

The union of the subdominant and tonic chords is known as the Plagal Cadence, e.g.,

[Music]

and always gives a feeling of religious dignity and impressiveness. Magnificent examples may
be found in the closing measures of Wagner's Overture to the Mastersingers and of Brahms' First
Symphony in C minor. In the final cadence of Debussy's humorous piece for pianoforte, Minstrels,
the effect is burlesqued, e.g.

[Music]

When dominant harmony is followed by some unexpected chord we have the so-called Deceptive
Cadence, which is not unlike the mark of interrogation (?) or even exclamation (!) e.g.

[Music: WAGNER: Overture to the Mastersingers]

[Music: TCHAIKOWSKY: 5th Symphony]

This last cadence gives an effect of dramatic surprise--certainly an exclamation of great force.
One of the glories of modern music is the daring novelty of cadential effect which has been
achieved by such composers as Franck, Debussy and Ravel; the student should try to become more
and more familiar with such harmonic combinations. A beautiful example[56] is cited from César
Franck's Sonata for Violin and Pianoforte.

[Footnote 56: See also the strikingly original cadences in Debussy's L'Isle joyeuse.]

[Music]

The two endings for phrases are classified as Masculine and Feminine and they correspond exactly
to the same effects in the metre of a poetic stanza. When the second chord of the cadence,
whatever it may be, coincides with a strong beat, i.e., the first beat of the measure, the
ending is Masculine, e.g.

[Music]

When the chord is carried over to a weak beat of the measure the ending is Feminine, e.g.

[Music]

We now give two more examples of the eight measure Sentence which clearly exemplify the principles
just stated, e.g.

[Music: BEETHOVEN: 3rd Sonata]

In this vigorous and clear-cut sentence we find in the 4th measure an effect of surprise and
suspense; for the chord on the first beat is an inverted position of the dominant chord in
the dominant key. Both the endings are masculine, i.e., the chords which end the phrases coincide
with the strong beats.

[Music: BEETHOVEN: 1st Sonata]

This graceful sentence is noteworthy for the clear division of the first phrase into two contrasting
sections; whereas, in the second phrase, a climactic effect is gained by having no marked subdivision.
In the fourth measure occurs a good example of a half-cadence. All the endings are feminine,
i.e., the cadential chord occurs on a weak beat of the measure.[57]

[Footnote 57: Another interesting eight-measure sentence may be found at the beginning of the
slow movement of Beethoven's Eighth Sonata, in which every section differs from any one of
the others; in the opening sentence of the first movement of the Tenth Sonata--noticeable for
the indefiniteness of the cadences until the final close is reached in measure 8, and in the
first sentence of the Allegretto of the Sixth Sonata which is one long sweep, with only the
faintest indications of subdivision.]

Music, however, would be very rigid and would seem measured off with a yard-stick if the sentences
were equally of eight measures. The "sing-song" effect of much so-called popular music is due
to the stereotyped metrical pattern. You can always tell just where and how you are coming
out. In order to gain a free and elastic phraseology, composers early began to combine three
four-measure phrases into a twelve measure sentence. It is obvious that with three phrases
there can be more subtle effects of contrast and balance than with two, as the following chart
makes plain:

/            \
A  Contrast   B   Contrast   C
               \/
(4 measures)  (4 measures)   (4 measures)
              balance
\/

[Music: BEETHOVEN: 6th Sonata]

In this sentence it is evident that we cannot stop at the 8th measure and that our first definite
conclusion is in measure 12. Let the student observe the varied melodic outline in the three
phrases, and question himself as to the types of cadence and ending.

MINUETTO OF BEETHOVEN'S FIRST SONATA.[58]

[Footnote 58: Lack of space will prevent hereafter the citation in actual notes of the examples
from Beethoven. His works are readily accessible, and it may even be assumed that every music-lover
owns the Pianoforte Sonatas.]

In this beautifully constructed twelve-measure sentence we have the main motive of the entire
movement set forth in measures 1 and 2; then a contrasting secondary motive in measures 3 and
4. The second four-measure phrase, i.e., measures 5, 6, 7 and 8, repeats the material exactly,
but with a modulation into the relative major. In measures 9 and 10 we find the secondary motive
appearing in the alto voice (which should be brought out in performance), and in measures 11
and 12 a free ending in the relative major. The closing measures, 13 and 14, give an echo-like
effect, which will be explained when we come to extended sentences. Such a sentence is not
to be considered as one of 14 measures, although the literal counting gives that number; for
the first complete cadence occurs in the 12th measure at the end of the third four-measure
phrase; the remaining measures being supplementary.[59]

[Footnote 59: Another excellent example of a 12 measure sentence with an extended cadence may
be found at the beginning of the first movement of the Third Beethoven Sonata.]

The last type of simple, normal sentence is that of 16 measures, divided into 4 phrases of
4 measures each. A clear distinction must be drawn between two successive sentences of 8 measures
and the long sweep of a genuine 16 measure sentence. In the latter case there is no complete
and satisfactory stop until we reach the cadence in the 16th measure.

FIRST SENTENCE OF THE FIRST MOVEMENT OF THE TWELFTH SONATA.

No difficulty will be found in following the cadences and endings of this sentence, the long-drawn
out lines of which give an impression of repose and tranquillity. Two more excellent examples
of 16 measure sentences may be found in the Adagio of the Fifth Sonata, and in the Scherzo
of the Third; the latter movement is remarkable for the polyphonic treatment of the opening motive.

Although the three types of sentence just studied, i.e., of 8, 12 and 16 measures are the normal
ones, and would include a majority of all sentences--especially in smaller works--in large
compositions there would be an unendurable monotony and rigidity were there invariably to be
cadential pauses at every 4th measure. We all know the deadening effect of poetry which has
too great uniformity of metric pattern; and verses of "The boy stood on the burning-deck" type
are considered thoroughly "sing-song." It is obvious that elasticity may be gained, without
disturbing the normal balance, by expanding a sentence through the addition of extra measures,
or contracting it by the logical omission of certain measures or by the overlapping of phrases.

The simplest and most common means of enlarging a sentence is by the extension, or repetition,
of the final cadence--that effect which is so frequent in the chamber and symphonic music of
Haydn, and which has its comic manifestation in the so-called "crescendo" of the Rossini Operatic
Overture.[60]

[Footnote 60: For a burlesque of this practise see the closing measures of the Scherzando movement
of Beethoven's Eighth Symphony.]

[Music: HAYDN: Quartet, op. 74, No. 2]

As Haydn was an important pioneer in freeing instrumental structure from dependence on the
metre of words, his periods are always clearly organized; the closing measures of this example
seem, as it were, to display a flag, telling the listener that the first breathing-place is
reached. Very often both the fore-phrase and the after-phrase have cadential prolongations,
an example of which may be found in Haydn's Quartet, op. 71, No. 3. The two following illustrations
(the first movement of Beethoven's Fifth Sonata and the third movement of the Fourth) furnish
remarkable examples of extended 16 measure sentences; each sentence being normal and symmetrical
at the outset and then, as the fancy of the composer catches fire, expanding in a most dramatic
fashion. Sometimes the additional measures, in an extended sentence, are found at the start;
a clear example of this is the first sentence (with its repeated opening measure) of the Largo
of the Seventh Sonata. Sentences are also often expanded by the insertion of one or more measures
in the middle of the phrase, e.g., the beginning of the first movement of the Seventh Sonata
and the corresponding place in the Fourth. In the former sentence the first phrase is perfectly
regular, but as we reach our final cadence only in the tenth measure, we must account for some
additional measures. The polyphonic imitation of the descending motive of measure 5 makes clear
that this measure has two repetitions. In the latter case we reach the end of the sentence
in the 17th measure and careful counting, and consideration of the melodic outline, will convince
us that the 9th measure, emphasized by the sf mark, is repeated.

When an extra measure is systematically introduced into each phrase of 4 measures we have what
is known as "five-bar rhythm"--so prevalent in the works of Schubert and Brahms.

[Music: SCHUBERT: Sonata in E[flat] major]

[Music: BRAHMS: Ballade in G minor]

As everyone is familiar with the latter composition, only the melody is cited. This propulsion
of the mind forward beyond the accustomed point of rest always produces a stimulating rhythmic
effect.[61]

[Footnote 61: Other charming examples of five-bar rhythm may be found in Schubert's Quartet
in A minor, op. 29, and in the opening choral (St. Anthony) of Brahms's Orchestral Variations,
op. 56a.]

The normal phraseology of four and eight measures is altered at times by the omission of certain
measures. This often takes place at the beginning of the sentence, as may be seen from the
structure of the so-called Anglican chant, familiar to all Protestants, e.g.

[Music: SAVAGE]

The beginning of Mozart's Overture to Figaro is also well known, e.g.

[Music]

The elision of a measure often takes place in the middle of a phrase as may be seen from the
theme of Mendelssohn's familiar Spring-Song.

[Music]

Just as in the case of the systematic insertion of an extra measure, which produces "five-bar
rhythm," so when a measure is omitted in each phrase which would usually consist of four measures,
we have "three-bar rhythm." This gives an effect of great concentration and intensity and is
a prevalent feature in Scottish and Hungarian folk-music, e.g.

[Music: Scotch]

[Music: Hungarian]

Additional examples of three-bar rhythm may be found in the Scherzo of Beethoven's Tenth Sonata
and in the Minuet of Mozart's G minor Symphony--the latter, one of the most striking examples
in literature.

When a measure is systematically omitted from the normal structure of the 8 measure sentence
we have "seven-bar rhythm"; of which beautiful examples may be found in the Scherzo of Beethoven's
Sonata in B-flat major, op. 106, and in Mozart's Quartet in F major, No. 23. As these examples
are readily accessible they are not quoted. The humorous effect produced, in the Beethoven
example, by the unexpected elision of the 7th measure is very marked.

Flexibility in the structure of a sentence is often gained by what is known as "overlapping"[62]
of phrases, i.e., where the closing measure of a sentence, the 8th or 12th for example, is
identical with the first measure of the following phrase. A clear example is this passage from
the first movement of Beethoven's Third Sonata, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 62: This effect is clearly brought out in symphonic music where one portion of the
orchestra, with a certain tone color, may be ending a phrase at the same moment at which another
part, with a contrasting tone color, begins. An excellent example is the first theme of the
Slow movement of Schumann's Second Symphony (measures 7-8).]

As the principles of sentence-formation are closely involved with the general subject of rhythm,
something must be known about the number of beats within the measure itself. While it is true
that we Anglo-Saxons tend to think in terms of 2 and 3 or their multiples, i.e., our customary
measures consist of 2 or 4 beats or of 3, 6, 9 and 12, in modern music--particularly that of
other races (the Slavs, Hungarians, etc.)--we often find measures with 5 and 7 beats and even
phrases containing a mixture of rhythms. Three excellent examples of compositions with measures
of 5 beats each are the Slow Movement of Chopin's Sonata in C minor, op. 4, the F-sharp major
portion of d'Indy's Symphonic Variations, Istar, and the second movement of Tchaikowsky Sixth
Symphony, e.g.

[Music]

A delightful example of a melody with 7 beats a measure is the Andante Grazioso of Brahms's
Trio in C minor, op. 101--the result undoubtedly of his well-known fondness for Hungarian music,
e.g.

[Music]

The following theme from Tchaikowsky's Quartet in F major, notwithstanding the time signature,
certainly gives the effect of a long, seven-beat measure, e.g.

[Music]

Those who wish to do a little investigating of their own in the field of modern music will
find interesting examples of 5/4 and 7/4 metres in Ravel's Daphnis and Chloe, in d'Indy's Sonata
for Violin and Pianoforte and in the Ballet music of Stravinsky.

We even find passages where, for special effect, the usual beats are elided or extra beats
inserted. Schumann was one of the most daring experimenters in this respect and such fantastic
effects are frequent in his pianoforte works--notably in the Carnaval, op. 9, and in the Phantasiestücke,
op. 12, e.g.

[Music: SCHUMANN: Carnaval]

With reference to all the foregoing principles and comments the music-lover is cautioned against
the assumption that music, from the standpoint of the composer or the listener, is merely a
matter of mechanical counting; or that the "swing" of music is as regular as that of a sewing-machine.
But, as order is Heaven's first law, it is true that music tends to move in definite, symmetrical
groups; and where departure is made from this practise the effect is one most carefully planned.
The matter deserves earnest consideration, for, in what is known as the "rhythmical sense,"
Americans--as a people, in comparison with foreign nations--are still woefully deficient. As
rhythm is the basic element in all music, there is nothing in which the listener should more
definitely train his faculties than in intelligent coöperation with the freedom of the composer.

CHAPTER V

THE TWO-PART AND THREE-PART FORMS

Now that a clear insight has been gained into the formation of the normal sentence, we are
in a position to understand how sentences may be combined to make complete compositions. The
simplest and most primitive structure is that which contains two complete sentences; dividing
itself naturally into two parts and hence known as the Two-Part Form. This form by reason of
its simplicity and directness is often found in the short pianoforte pieces of Schumann, Tchaikowsky,
Brahms, Grieg and Debussy. For a long period there was no attempt at differentiation between
vocal and instrumental style; music, in fact, during the 15th and 16th centuries was often
entitled "buon da cantare ou suonare," i.e., equally well suited for voices or instruments.
When instrumental players were in search of pieces, they simply transferred to their instruments
the voice-parts of the Madrigals and Canzonas which were then so fashionable.[63] With the
development of instruments--especially of the Violin family--and with the desire for an instrumental
style which should be independent of words, principles of coherent design had to be evolved;
and they were suggested by the definite metre in the stanzas of the Folk-song and, above all,
by the symmetrical phrases of the Folk-dance, used to accompany the rhythmical motions of the
body. By a utilization of these principles of balanced phrases, of contrasted keys and of periodic
themes, instrumental music gradually worked out a structure of its own,[64] of which we find
examples in National dances and in the compositions of such pioneers of instrumental style
as the Italians Corelli and Vivaldi, the Frenchmen Lully, Couperin and Rameau, and the Englishman
Purcell.

[Footnote 63: For a complete account of this process see Parry's Evolution of the Art of Music,
p. 115 seq.]

[Footnote 64: This book makes no attempt to give an historical account of the development of
instrumental form. The subject is set forth comprehensively in the article on Form in Grove's
Dictionary (Vol. II, p. 73) and in the Fifth and Sixth Chapters of Parry's Evolution of the
Art of Music.]

[Music:

    Viens dans ce bocage belle Aminte,
    Sans contrainte L'on y forme des voeux;
    Viens, Viens dans ce bocage belle Aminte,
    Il est fait pour les plaisirs et les jeux.]

In this rhythmic and sprightly dance of exactly 8 measures (an old French Tambourin taken from
Weckerlin's Echos du Temps Passé) we see clearly the influence of the metrical stanza of words
and of the balanced phrases in the instrumental part, necessary to accompany the steps of the
dancers. The melody of the accompaniment was played on a flute or some simple kind of pipe,
and the bass on a Tambour de Basque--a rude form of drum, which repeated continually the tonic
and dominant of the key; the same effect which we associate with the Bagpipe and Hurdy-gurdy.

[Music: PURCELL: Jig.]

In this Jig, which was a favorite type with the English peasantry--divided into three sentences
of exactly 8 measures each--the dance rhythm is very sharply defined. From various dance-patterns
a structural type was gradually evolved, of which the chief features will now be indicated.
The music was divided into two distinct halves and it became the convention to gain length
by repeating each half--in the early days of the form, literally (with a double bar and sign
of repeat); later, as composers gained freedom, with considerable amplification. Each half
presented the same material (it was a one-theme form) but the two halves were contrasted in
tonality, i.e., the first part, beginning in the home-key, would modulate to some related key--generally
the dominant; the second part, starting out in this key, gradually modulated back to a final
cadence in the original key, and often--especially in Haydn and Mozart--repeated the entire
main sentence of the first part. The general effect of such a form has been wittily described[65]
as resembling the actions of "the King of France who, with twenty thousand men, marched up
the hill and then marched down again"--but he surely had no exciting adventures in between!
It is evident that this form, while favorable to coherence and unity, is lacking in scope and
in opportunity for variety and contrast. It did, however, emphasize the principle of recapitulation;
in fact it became the convention (as we shall see in the dances of the Suite) for the closing
measures of the second part to be an exact duplicate in the home-key of that which had been
presented at the end of part one. We shall observe, as we continue our studies, that the trend
of musical composition gradually swung over to the Three-part form, the essential feature of
which is restatement after intervening contrast.

[Footnote 65: See The Appreciation of Music by Surette and Mason, p. 36.]

For illustrations of the Two-part Form see the Supplement Nos. 20, 21, 22, 23, 24.

Only in such comparatively simple examples as those just cited is found this perfect balance
in the length of the two parts. We often observe extended sentences in the first part; and
it became the custom for the second part to be considerably lengthened, to include modulations
into more remote keys and even to display certain developments of the main material. For a
striking example of a movement which, although definitely in Two-part form, (i.e., it is in
two clear divisions and has but one theme) is yet of considerable scope and variety, see the
Allegretto of Beethoven's Fourth Sonata. It was, in fact, this instinct for contrasting variety
in the second part[66] which (as can be shown from historical examples)[67] gradually led to
the developing and establishment of the Three-part form.

[Footnote 66: As an illustration of this tendency see the Scherzo of Beethoven's Second Sonata,
the second part of which has a new theme of its own, although the movement as a whole is clearly
in Two-part form.]

[Footnote 67: See The Sonata Form by W.H. Hadow, Chapter III.]

The essentials of this structure, so frequent in all pianoforte literature, are the existence
of three distinct parts--hence the name: a clause of assertion in the home-key; a second clause,
affording a genuine contrast to the first part in regard to key, melodic outline and general
treatment, and a third clause of reassertion, which shall repeat--either literally or in varied
form--the material of part one.[68] In the Three-part form, as employed in the classic Minuet
and Scherzo, each of the three parts taken by itself is in complete Two-part form; and as the
third part was generally a literal repetition of part one, it was not written out, but at the
end of the middle part (called the Trio, because it was originally written in three-voiced
harmony) we find the direction "Minuet or Scherzo da capo," meaning a return to the first part.
A coda or tail-piece is often added to round out the form. As the student will become thoroughly
familiar with the Three-part form, in connection with the classic Symphonies soon to be studied
(each Minuet, Scherzo or Trio being an example), our illustrations show the use of this form
in independent pieces and are chiefly taken from modern literature; the object being so to
interest the student in the beauty of these compositions as to convince him that in all good
music content and design go hand is hand. For examples[69] see Supplement Nos. 25, 26, 27.

[Footnote 68: The three-part form is derived partly from the Italian "da Capo Aria" and partly
from the fundamental instinct for restatement which we have seen in the Folk-song.]

[Footnote 69: Additional illustrations, which will repay study are the following: the Allegretto
of Beethoven's Sixth Sonata; the Schubert Impromptu, op. 90, No. 4; Brahms's Intermezzo, op.
117, No. 1 and the Ballade in G minor, op. 118, No. 3, and for orchestra--in extended treatment--Debussy's
Prélude à l'après-midi d'un Faune.]

CHAPTER VI

THE CLASSICAL AND THE MODERN SUITE

No sooner had the Two-and Three-part forms become accepted as definite means of instrumental
expression, than composers were eager to try their skill in combining dance-movements in such
forms into larger groups. These compositions--known in France as Ordres, in Germany as Suites
and Partitas and in England as Lessons--though all the movements were in the same key, yet
showed considerable variety by reason of the contrast in the dance rhythms. They were, moreover,
simple, direct and easily understood of the people.[70] This development was furthered by the
perfecting of two groups of instruments: The violins, by the great Italian masters; and those
precursors of our modern pianoforte, the harpsichord, clavichord and spinet. We find, consequently,
the Italians--of whom Corelli was most prominent--combining these dances into groups called
Sonate da Ballo: and the French composers Couperin and Rameau, developing the possibilities
of keyed stringed instruments in graceful pieces to which fantastic titles, such as La Poule,
Le Rappel des Oiseaux, etc., were often given. The greatest master of instrumental style in
these early days was the Italian, Domenico Scarlatti (1685-1757). He was famous both as composer
and performer--the first, in fact, of the long line of key-board virtuosi--and in his compositions
in dance form and in those of a more abstract type there is a sparkling fancy and an adjustment
of the thought to his instrument, which will keep them forever immortal.[71]

[Footnote 70: For an interesting and comprehensive account of this development see Grove's
Dictionary, Volume IV, article on the Suite.]

[Footnote 71: For extensive comments on Scarlatti's style see The History of the Pianoforte
and Pianoforte Players by Oscar Bie, pp. 68-90.]

The grouping together of dance forms reached its highest development through the genius of
Sebastian Bach in the so-called French and English Suites.[72] In these compositions--in the
Partitas and in the orchestral Suite in D major, which contains the well-known Aria, often
played in transcription for Violin solo--the dance-forms are not employed literally but are
made a vehicle for the expression of varied types of human emotion and sentiment. Nor should
we overlook the twelve Harpsichord Lessons of Handel--especially the superb Fugue in E minor
in the Fourth Suite--which are noteworthy for their vigor, though, in freshness and delicacy
of invention, not to be compared with Bach's.

[Footnote 72: These titles, according to Parry (see his life of Bach, Chapters IV and XII passim),
were not given by Bach himself but were assigned, in the case of the French Suites, to denote
the delicacy of treatment found therein, and in the English, a certain massive style.]

We now give a tabulated list of the customary dance forms, both as found in the Classic and
the modern Suite or used as independent pieces; and we shall then analyze those which have
the most characteristic rhythmic pattern.

LIST OF DANCES

NAME       | ORIGIN       | METER    | FORM       | CHARACTER
||||
Allemande  | Suabian      |   4/4    | Two-part   | Moderately quick;
           |              |          |            | flowing, with a rather
           |              |          |            | rich harmonic texture.
           |              |          |            |
{Courante  | French       | 3/4, 3/2 | Two-part   | Running, lively; the 2/2
{Corrente  | Italian      |          |            | type always with a change
           |              |          |            | of meter at the cadences.
           |              |          |            |
Sarabande  | Spanish      | 3/2, 3/4 | Two-part   | Stately, dignified; often
           |              |          |            | noble and even
           |              |          |            | dramatically pathetic.
           |              |          |            |
Hornpipe   | English      |   4/4    | Two-part   | Rapid, merry, energetic.
           |              |          |            |
{Gigue     | Italian      |   6/8,   | Two-part   | Very lively, rollicking,
{Jig       | giga, an     |  12/8,   |            | even jocose.
           | early violin |   4/8    |            |
           |              |          |            |
Gavotte    | French       | 4/4, 2/2 | Two-part   | Moderately fast;
           |              |          |            | well-marked rhythm,
           |              |          |            | often stately.
           |              |          |            |
Bourrée    | French       |   4/4    | Two-part   | Lively, vigorous.
           |              |          |            |
Minuet     | French       | 3/4, 3/8 | Two-part   | Moderately fast; dainty,
           |              |          |            | graceful, courtly.
           |              |          |            |
Passepied  | French       |   3/4    | Two-part   | Light, delicately animated.
           |              |          |            |
Loure      | French       | 6/4, 4/4 | Two-part   | Rather slow, stately.
           |              |          |            |
Pavane     | Italian      |   2/4    | Two-part   | Solemn, impressive.
           |              |          |            |
Galliard   | Italian      | 3/2, 2/2 | Two-part   | Lively, merry.
           |              |          |            |
{Branle    | French       | 4/4, 3/4 | Two-part   | Lively, with great abandon.
{Brawl     | English      |          |            |
           |              |          |            |
Polonaise  | Polish       |   3/4    | Varied     | Dignified and courtly, but
           |              |          |            | with life.
           |              |          |            |
Mazurka    | Polish       |   3/4    | Varied     | Great range of speed and
           |              |          |            | effect; at times sustained
           |              |          |            | and pathetic, often
           |              |          |            | bright and lively.
           |              |          |            |
Polka      | Bohemian     |   2/4    | Generally  | Merry, animated.
           |              |          | three-part |
           |              |          |            |
Furiant    | Bohemian     |   3/4    | Varied     | Very lively, even frenzied.
           |              |          |            |
Waltz      | German       |   3/4    | Two-part   | Graceful; varied in effect;
           |              |          |    or      | at times lively, often
           |              |          | three-part | slow.
           |              |          |            |
Boléro     | Spanish      |   3/4    | Three-part | Brisk, well-marked rhythm.
           |              |          |            |
Tarantella | Italian      |   6/8    | Varied     | Very lively, impassioned.
           |              |          |            |
Saltarello | Italian      | 6/8, 3/4 | Varied     | With  quick, jumping
           |              |          |            | rhythm.
           |              |          |            |
Rigaudon   | French       | 2/4, 4/4 | Varied     | Lively, gay.
           |              |          |            |
March      | Found in     |   4/4    | Varied     | Stately, with marked
           | every nation |          |            | rhythm.
           |              |          |            |
Csárdás    | Hungarian    | 3/4, 2/4 | Varied     | Impassioned; with great
           |              |          |            | variety of effect.
           |              |          |            |
Halling    | Scandinavian |   2/4    | Varied     | Fresh, vigorous,
           |              |          |            | out-of-doors atmosphere.
           |              |          |            |
Tango      | Mexican      |  Varied  | Varied     | With reckless abandon.
           |              |          |            |
Habañera   | Spanish      |   2/4    | Varied     | Graceful; with
           |              |          |            | characteristic rhythm.
           |              |          |            |
Seguidilla | Spanish      | 3/4, 3/8 | Varied     | Fantastic; sometimes
           |              |          |            | stately, sometimes gay
           |              |          |            | and lively.
           |              |          |            |
{Jota,     | Spanish      |   3/4    | Free       | A kind of waltz, but with
{often     |              |          |            | more freedom in the
{Jota      |              |          |            | dancing, and of a vigorous
{Aragonesa |              |          |            | and fiery nature.
           |              |          |            |
           |              |          |            |
Malagueña  | Spanish      |   3/8    | In couplet | A dance of moderate
           |              |          | form       | movement, accompanied by
           |              |          |            | guitar and castanets;
           |              |          |            | languorous and sensual in
           |              |          |            | mood.
           |              |          |            |
Siciliano  | Sicilian     |   6/8,   | Two-part,  | Graceful; of a Pastorale
           |              |  12/8    | three-part,| nature.
           |              |          | often a    |
           |              |          | Rondo      |
||||

The four indispensable movements of the classic or 18th century Suite were the Allemande, the
Courante, the Sarabande and the Gigue; and, between the last two, it became customary to insert
an optional number of other dances--the most usual being the Gavotte, Bourrée, Minuet and Passepied.
In effect, the Suite was a kind of "international Potpourri" of the dances most in vogue, and
affords us a vivid reflection of the manners and customs of the period. Many of the English
Suites begin with an elaborate polyphonic Prelude. We shall not give a detailed analysis of
all these dance movements; for the main characteristics the tabulated list will suffice, and
in the book of Supplementary examples (see No. 35) will be found the 6th French Suite complete.
It will be more useful to center attention on those dances which, in rhythmic pattern, are
especially typical and are most frequently employed in modern music; and we shall select, as
examples drawn from various sources, those dances which make a direct appeal. The most characteristic
of the dances are the Sarabande, the Gavotte, the Minuet and the Gigue; and with the last,
as exemplifying the same spirit, may be grouped the Rigaudon, Furiant, Tarantella and Saltarello.

The Sarabande is a slow, stately dance; always in triple meter indicated by 3/2 or 3/4. Its
striking features are the frequent occurrence of the rhythmic pattern

[Music] or [Music]

in which it is evident that there is a strong accent on the weak beats; and the prevalence
of feminine endings in the cadences. The Sarabande always displays great depth of emotion--often
of a tragic and impassioned kind; and, in the Suite, seems to have served the composer for
the same outpouring of feeling which we associate with the slow movement in the later Sonata
or Symphony. The example cited in the Supplement (See No. 28)--taken from one of Bach's Sonatas
for 'cello--is considered one of the most beautiful in existence. Other eloquent Sarabandes
may be found in the Second and Third English Suites and in Handel's noble Air "Lascia ch'io
pianga" from the opera of Rinaldo. Two fine modern examples of this dance are the second number
in Paderewski's Humoresques de Concert, op. 14, and the second number in the set of pieces
by Debussy, Pour le Piano--Prélude, Sarabande, Toccata. Composers sometimes employ the Sarabande
rhythm for its inherent beauty, or for dramatic purposes without indication of the fact. Examples
are the theme for variations in Beethoven's Sonata, op. 109, and the opening measures of the
Egmont Overture where, by means of the characteristic Spanish dance-rhythm, an atmosphere of
oppression and dejection is established, e.g.

[Music]

The Gavotte is an energetic yet dignified dance in duple rhythm (it is almost always played
too fast)--the characteristics of which are its beginning on the half-measure and its strongly
marked cadences. One of the most stirring examples is that cited from the Third English Suite
(See Supplement No. 29) which, with its subdued middle portion, La Musette,[73] is an early
example of tripartite arrangement. Other gavottes[74] are the favorite one from the Fifth French
Suite, that from Handel's opera Ottone (so often played in organ or pianoforte transcriptions)
and, from modern literature, the charming one in d'Albert's Suite for Pianoforte, op. 1.

[Footnote 73: So-called because it is written on a sustained bass note or pedal point; a feature
of the Musette (the French name for Bagpipe) being its persistent drone bass on the tonic and
the dominant.]

[Footnote 74: An interesting example may also be found in Grieg's Holberg Suite for Pianoforte.]

The Minuet is of particular interest, not alone because of the many beautiful examples of its
use but because it is the only dance which, carried over from the Suite, has remained an integral
movement of Symphonic compositions. The Minuet, in its older form, was a stately dance; the
derivation of the term (French menu) referring to the dainty steps of the dancers, always in
3/8 or 3/4 metre and beginning on the first beat of the measure. By Haydn the character of
the Minuet was considerably changed; the tempo becomes much faster, the music begins on the
third beat of the measure instead of the first and the mood is one of playful humor--at times
even of downright jollity. In the Minuets of Mozart the peculiar characteristics are grace
and tenderness rather than rollicking fun, e.g., the charming examples in the E-flat major
and G minor Symphonies. Concerning the transformation by Beethoven of the Minuet into the Scherzo,
with its fantastic and freakish atmosphere, we shall speak more fully in connection with his
Symphonies. Of the examples cited in the Supplement (see Nos. 30 and 31) the former, from the
first Finale of Mozart's opera Don Giovanni, remains one of the most famous minuets in existence;
and the two from Rameau's opera, Castor and Pollux, are of inimitable spontaneity and rhythmic
grace. They are grouped in contrasting, tripartite arrangement. In modern literature every
one knows of the melodious example for Pianoforte by Paderewski (No. 1 of the Humoresques de
Concert) and the Menuet Italien by Mrs. Beach; that in the last scene of Verdi's Falstaff is
also well worth acquaintance.

The last of the particularly characteristic dances is the Gigue with its counterparts mentioned
above. This is a rapid, animated dance in 6/8, 3/8, 12/8, 12/16 (sometimes 4/4) with marked
rhythm; the term being derived from giga (German, geige)--an early name for fiddle--on account
of the power of accent associated with the violin family. The Gigue is always the closing number
of Bach's Suites, in order to give a final impression of irrepressible vitality and gaiety,
and is treated with considerable polyphonic complexity; in fact, his gigues often begin like
a complete Fugue. They are all in clear-cut Two-part form; and it became the convention for
the second part to treat the motive in inverted form. The example cited from Bach's Fifth French
Suite (see Supplement No. 32) is unsurpassed for rhythmic energy; the closing measures sound
as if all the bells of heaven were ringing. The example of Mozart (see Supplement No. 33) is
noteworthy for its daring use of the dissonant element and for its free modulations. Of the
counterparts of the gigue the following are excellent examples: The Rigaudon--the Finale of
Grieg's Holberg Suite, the vigorous one from Rameau's opera Dardanus, and MacDowell's independent
piece in this form, op. 49, No. 2; the Furiant--the Finale of Dvo[vr]ák's Suite for Small Orchestra,
op. 30 (accessible in an effective pianoforte arrangement for four hands); the Tarantelle--Chopin's
independent piece in this rhythm, op. 43, and the brilliant Finale of Rheinberger's Pianoforte
Sonata for four hands, op. 122; the Saltarello--the last movement of Mendelssohn's Italian
Symphony and the main portion of Berlioz's Carnaval Romain Overture. One additional example
is cited (see Supplement No. 34), a Courante by D. Scarlatti, to give an example of his pianoforte
style. In connection with these dances, especially the Sarabande, Gavotte, Loure, Pavane, Polonaise
and Tarantelle, there should be read the articles treating of each dance in Grove's Dictionary;
for these dances are so closely connected with human activity that a knowledge of their development
broadens our horizon in many matters pertaining to social life and civilization in general.
As to specific examples of the less usual dances, many of the quaintest are found in the works
of the early English composers: Byrd, Bull, etc., in the Fitzwilliam Virginal Book, e.g., The
Lord of Salisbury his Pavan. An excellent example of the Loure is the well-known arrangement
from Bach's third 'Cello sonata. Chopin, in his works, has glorified both the Polonaise and
the Mazurka; Bizet, in his opera Carmen, has used the Habañera and the Seguidilla, and there
is a wonderful use of the Habañera rhythm in Debussy's descriptive piece Soirée dans Grenade.
The French composer Ravel in his pianoforte piece Pavane pour un enfant defunt has used with
remarkable effect the stately rhythm of that dance. The Spanish composers, Albeniz and Granados,
frequently employ national dance rhythms in their pieces. The French composer Chabrier's Bourrée
Fantasque is a dazzling modernization of the old form; and his España for full orchestra fairly
intoxicates us with its dashing rhythms based upon the Jota and the Malagueña.[75] Debussy's
well-known piece Hommage à Rameau is in the style of the Sarabande. The allusions in literature
to these dances are so frequent that only a few can be cited. The very spirit of the Jig is
given in Pope's line "Make the soul dance upon a jig to Heaven." In speaking of the antics
of Sir Andrew Aguecheek in Twelfth Night, Shakespeare remarks--"I did think by the excellent
constitution of thy leg that it was formed under the star of a Galliard." One of the most remarkable
works of the English composer John Dowland (born 1562) is entitled Lachrymae, or Seven Teares,
figured in seven passionate Pavans.

[Footnote 75: For a vivid description of these dances see Chabrier's Lettres à Nanette, Paris,
1910.]

The Suite, by reason of its freedom in combining different rhythms and moods, has appealed
vividly to modern composers; and the literature of our times contains a number of Suites which
should be known to the music-lover. In these modern Suites no attempt is made to conform to
the old conventional grouping of dances. The movements are in different keys, are often based
on rhythms of an exotic or ultra-nationalistic type--as in Tchaikowsky and Dvo[vr]ák, or may
employ any material suggested by the fantastic imagination of the composer--as in Debussy and
Ravel. Among the most attractive modern Suites may be cited: The Peer Gynt (put together from
incidental music to Ibsen's play) and the Holberg by Grieg; the two L'Arlésienne Suites by
Bizet (written to illustrate Daudet's romantic story)--the first, with its dainty Minuet and
brilliant Carillons (Peal of bells); Dvo[vr]ák's Suite for Small Orchestra, op. 39, with its
sprightly Polka and impassioned Furiant; Tchaikowsky's five Orchestral Suites of which the
best known are the Casse-Noisette with its exotic rhythms and novel orchestral effects, the
Mozartiana and the third which closes with a brilliant Polonaise; Brahms's Serenades for orchestra;
Charpentier's Impressions of Italy in which there is an effective use of Italian rhythm and
color; MacDowell's Indian Suite, with several of the themes based on native tunes; the fascinating
orchestral Suite Adventures in a Perambulator by John Alden Carpenter; Arthur Whiting's Suite
Moderne for pianoforte; Stevensoniana, (based on stanzas from Stevenson's Child's Garden of
Verses) an orchestral Suite in four movements by Edward B. Hill; Debussy's Suite Bergamasque
in which is found the oft-played Clair de Lune; Ravel's[76] Mother Goose, a delightful work--and
by the same composer the Daphnis and Chloe Suite, the material drawn from an opera of the same
name. In modern literature easily the most celebrated and brilliant example of this type is
the Scheherazade Suite (based on the Arabian Nights) for full orchestra by Rimsky-Korsakoff.
This work in the genuine poetic quality of its themes, in its marvellous descriptive power
and in the boldness of its orchestral effect remains unsurpassed.

[Footnote 76: See also Le Tombeau de Couperin in which is a very novel Rigaudon.]

CHAPTER VII

THE OLDER RONDO FORM

One of the earliest instrumental forms to be worked out[77] was the Rondo, which is merely
an extension of the three-part principle of "restatement after contrast" and which, by reason
of its logical appeal, has retained its place to this day. Originally the Rondo was a combination
of dance and song; that is, the performers sang and danced in a circle--holding one another's
hands. The music would begin with a chorus in which all joined, one of the dancers would then
sing a solo, after which all would dance about and repeat the chorus; other solos would follow,
the chorus being repeated after each. The characteristic feature, then, of this structure is
the continual recurrence to a principal motive after intervening contrasts--hence the name
Rondo (French, Rondeau); exemplifying a principle found not only in primitive folk-songs and
dances but in literature, e.g., many of the songs of Burns and the Rondeaux of Austin Dobson.
For it is obvious that the form answers to the simplest requirements of unity and contrast.
Frequent examples of the Rondo are found in all early instrumental composers: Bach, e.g., the
charming one in C minor in his third Partita; Couperin, Rameau, Haydn and Mozart. It is found
also in vocal works, e.g., Purcell's well-known song "I Attempt from Love's Sickness to Fly."
From the standpoint of modern taste, however, Beethoven was--with few exceptions--the first
to treat the form with real genius; and so our illustrations are taken chiefly from his works
and from those of his successors. Although there need be no arbitrary limit to the alternation
of the chief part with the subsidiary portions--in fact, Beethoven's humorous Rondo Capriccio,
On a Lost Farthing has as many as eleven sections--it gradually became conventional for the
form to consist of five parts: a first presentation and two repetitions of the main theme together
with two contrasting portions called Episodes, to which a free Coda was often added. The form
would then be A, b, A´, c, A´´, Coda--A´ and A´´ indicating that the repetition need not be
literal, but often varied rhythmically and harmonically; not, however, so as to obliterate
the original outline. For in a well-constructed Rondo the main theme must be one of such direct
appeal that we look forward to hearing it again; and the successive repetitions must be so
planned that we can easily enjoy this pleasure of reminiscence. It also became customary not
to block off the sections with rigid cadences but often to insert modulatory passages, thus
securing a continuous flow of thought. This practise we see particularly in Beethoven and Schumann.
The form which we are discussing is the so-called Older Rondo Form, clearly derived from the
dance described above. Beginning[78] with Beethoven, however, we find numerous examples of
a different kind of rondo treatment which developed in connection with the Sonata Form--to
be explained later. The Rondo-Sonata Form, as it is generally called, is in fact a hybrid type,
with certain features derived from rondo structure and certain from the pure sonata form. The
Finales to Beethoven's Sonatas, when entitled Rondos, are--with few exceptions--of this Rondo-Sonata
type. An excellent example, which should be well known, is the Finale of the Sonata Pathétique.
Although there are many cases of free treatment of the rondo principle, they are all based
on one or the other of these two fundamental types. Schumann was extremely fond of this Older
Rondo Form, as may be seen from his frequent practice of writing two Trios to the Scherzos
of his Symphonies. A moment's thought will make clear that a Scherzo with two Trios and the
customary repetitions will conform exactly to the pattern given above, i.e., A, b, A´, c, A´´
Coda, e.g., Scherzo, First Trio = First Episode, First return, Second Trio = Second Episode,
Final return and Coda--five portions in all, or six when there is a Coda. For convincing examples
see the Scherzos of the First and Second Symphonies. Schumann's well-known Arabesque for pianoforte,
op. 18, is a beautiful, clear-cut example of the form; with an interpolated modulatory passage
between the first episode and first return, and a poetic Coda which has, for its closing measures,
the chief motive in augmentation (already referred to on p. 45). To show Schumann's partiality
for this form the student may be referred to Nos. 2 and 8 of the Kreisleriana (op. 16) and
to Nos. 1, 2 and 3 of the "Nachtstücke" (op. 23). The third of the Romances (op. 28)--a remarkably
free example in the grouping of the material and in the key-relationship--is cited in the Supplement
(No. 37). An excellent example (readily accessible), popular by reason of its freedom of treatment,
as well as for its inherent sparkle and dash, is the Finale of Weber's Sonata in C major, op.
24--the so-called Moto Perpetuo. The most famous example of this form in classical literature
is undoubtedly the Finale of Beethoven's Waldstein Sonata, op. 53, with its melodious and easily
remembered first subject, e.g.

[Music]

[Music]

its two episodes in A minor and C minor (which afford most dramatic contrasts to the lyric
quality of the main subject) and its glorious, long-extended Coda of about three pages.[79]

[Footnote 77: For a complete account of the historical development see the article on Form
in Grove's Dictionary Vol. II and Hadow's Sonata Form, Chapter IX.]

[Footnote 78: There is an early example in the Rondo of Mozart's Sonata for Pianoforte in B-flat
major.]

[Footnote 79: For a complete detailed analysis of the movement see Prout, Applied Forms, pp.
120-121.]

As stated above, the Older Rondo-Form has not become obsolete; indeed, by reason of its possibilities
for emphasis and contrast it has commended itself to modern composers. Striking examples may
be found in the Finale of Brahms's Pianoforte Sonata in F minor, in the Finale of Tchaikowsky's
Fourth Symphony and, above all, in the Symphonic Poems of Strauss, Don Juan and Till Eulenspiegel,
in which the form is admirably adapted to the dramatic needs of these descriptive works. Additional
examples, which can be readily procured, are the Slow Movement of the Sonata Pathétique, op.
13, Beethoven's well-known Andante in F major--remarkable for its brilliant Coda--and his Rondo,
already cited, On the Lost Farthing. (See Supplement No. 38). Although there is a certain stiffness
in this form these examples afford the student excellent rudimentary practise in ease of listening.

CHAPTER VIII

THE VARIATION FORM

Monotony, as previously suggested, is more unendurable in music than in any of the other arts.
We should therefore expect to find musicians inventing new devices to vary their thoughts so
that the interest of the hearer might be continually sustained and refreshed. Thus there gradually
grew up the form known as the Varied Air--a term meaning the presentation of the same musical
material under different aspects. As far back as we can trace the development of instrumental
structure, there appears this instinct for varying a simple tune by embellishments of a rhythmical
and melodic nature. Examples abound in the works of the early Italian masters, in the harpsichord
pieces of the English composers Byrd and Bull[80] and in the music of Couperin and Rameau.
But all these Variations, however interesting from a historical point[81] of view, are very
labored and lack any real poetic growth. They are, moreover, often prolonged to an interminable
length--one example, as late as Handel, consisting of an Air with sixty-two Variations; prolixity
or "damnable iteration" being as bad a blemish in music as in any of the other arts. In the
early days of instrumental composition, about all that composers could do was "to put the theme
through its paces." That is, there was no unfolding of the poetic possibilities of the melody.
The successive variations were all in the same key; the harmonic basis was practically unchanged
and the treatment consisted of dressing up the theme with stereotyped embellishment-figures
and of systematic rhythmic animation--produced by the addition of more and more notes to each
time unit. A standard illustration of this type of Variations is the so-called Harmonious Blacksmith
of Handel from his Suite in E Major. This piece owes whatever popularity it may have preserved
to the sturdy swing of the main theme and to the fact that it makes no demand on the attention
of the most untrained listener. In fairness we should state that on the harpsichord--with its
contrasting stops and key-boards--for which the piece was composed, there is possible more
variety of effect than on the modern pianoforte.

[Footnote 80: We would cite the piece entitled Les Buffons by Bull, and Byrd's variations to
the popular tune the Carman's Whistle, which latter have considerable archaic charm and distinction;
for Byrd was a real genius. These are readily accessible in popular editions.]

[Footnote 81: Consult the comprehensive article on Variations in Grove's Dictionary, Vol. V.]

Three collateral early forms deserve a passing mention because, notwithstanding a certain rigidity
of structure, they have been used by the great masters for the expression of sublime thoughts.
These are the Ground Bass (or, as it is sometimes called, the Basso Ostinato), the Chaconne
and the Passacaglia[82] which, in modern literature, is well represented by the magnificent
"tour de force" that serves as the Finale to Brahms's Fourth Symphony. By a Ground Bass is
meant a theme, continually repeated, in the lowest voice, each time with varied upper parts.
An excellent example (see Supplement No. 39) is the Aria "When I am laid in earth" from Purcell's
Opera Dido and Aeneas. It is evident that the persistent iteration of a striking phrase in
the bass gives an effect of dramatic intensity, as may be seen in the sublime "Crucifixion"
of Bach's Mass in B minor.[83] The Chaconne and Passacaglia are old dance forms (examples of
the former being found in Gluck's Ballet Music) and are closely related to the Ground Bass;
since, in the majority of cases, we find the same procedure in the announcement of the theme
and in its subsequent treatment. Two examples of the Chaconne from standard literature are
the famous one of Bach in D minor for solo violin and Beethoven's thirty-two Variations in
C minor for Pianoforte. The Passacaglia is of importance as shown by the striking example for
organ in C minor by Bach on the following theme:

[Music]

Whoever has heard this majestic theme, which seems to bear the sorrows of the world on its
shoulders, announced on the deep-sounding pedals will gain a lasting impression of the grandeur
of Bach's style.

[Footnote 82: For the derivation of the term consult the interesting article in Grove's Dictionary,
Vol. IV.]

[Footnote 83: A work before which Schumann said every musician should prostrate himself in
adoration.]

By the time of Haydn, the technical skill of composers had improved sufficiently so that we
find in his works some genuinely interesting examples of the Variation form, e.g., the set
on the well-known Austrian hymn from the Kaiser Quartet in C major--in which each of the five
variations has a real individuality--and the Variations in F minor for Pianoforte: remarkable
as an early example of the varied treatment of two themes.

Most of Mozart's Variations are based upon popular themes and, in general, may be considered
as virtuoso pieces to show off the agility of the performer. We find occasional examples, as
in the Clarinet Quintette and in the Sonata in D major, which are of more intrinsic worth.

The genius of Beethoven first revealed the full possibilities of the form. In fact, so remarkable
was his work that such creative composers as César Franck and d'Indy consider the basic principles
for our modern development of music to be found in the Fugue of Bach and the Varied Air of
Beethoven. For, deadly dull as is the Variation form when treated in a stereotyped manner,
by very reason of its freedom from arbitrary rules it may be a most elastic medium for the
expression of poetic genius. The composer has but to invent a striking characteristic theme,
rich in potential development, and then to let it develop for as long as he can retain the
interest of his hearers. Likewise for a great orator the simple rule is to state a theme on
which something worth while may be said and then by presenting it in new lights and with copious
illustrations to drive the truth home. The principal and significant changes which we owe to
Beethoven are the following: complete freedom in variety of key, so that at times (as in his
op. 34) each variation is in a new key; a frequent omission of the rigid stops at the end of
each variation, e.g., the Slow movement of the Fifth Symphony and the third movement of the
Trio, op. 96, so that a continuous flow of thought is preserved; the practice, so often followed
in modern literature, of founding variations on a double theme--of which the Finale of the
Heroic Symphony is a striking example. But the chief advance in Beethoven is the entirely new
conception of what variations should be; not, according to him, mere mechanical manipulations
of the subject matter, but vital products of the imagination, as varied as the members of a
human family having the same mother. Beethoven's variations, in fact, often seem like a series
of character-pieces, each with its own individuality and yet retaining an organic relationship
to the main thought. His fondness for the form and his mastery over it is seen by the frequency
of its use in the last Sonatas and String-Quartets. Every composer since Beethoven has written
one or more works in the Variation form; but we can mention only the most beautiful examples
and then pass on to the daring conceptions of the modern school. The Variations by Schubert
in his String-Quartet in D minor on the Song, Death and the Maiden, will amply repay study,
and so will the Variations Sérieuses, op. 54, for the pianoforte by Mendelssohn. As for Schumann,
he was very happy in the use of this form, and his Symphonic Études, op. 13--in wealth of fancy
and freedom of treatment--are quite unparalleled. His Variations for two pianofortes, op. 46,
deserve also to be known. Among the finest examples since Beethoven are the numerous sets by
Brahms, remarkable alike for emotional power, for free and yet logical treatment of the material
and for solidity of workmanship. They include the Variations on a theme from Handel for pianoforte,
op. 24; the set for orchestra, op. 56a, on the St. Anthony Choral of Haydn; and the two sets,
op. 35, on themes from Paganini--universally conceded to be the most brilliant examples for
the pianoforte in recent literature.

To speak now particularly of the modern school, there are five compositions in this form which,
for their daring novelty and sustained eloquence, should be familiar to every music-lover and
heard as often as possible. For they are elaborate works which must be thoroughly known to
be understood and loved. (1), There is the set in Tchaikowsky's Pianoforte Trio in A minor,
op. 50; noteworthy for freedom of modulation and for the striking individuality given to the
different transformations of the theme--two of the changes being to a Waltz and a Mazurka.
(2), The Symphonic Variations for Pianoforte and Orchestra of César Franck, based on two contrasting
themes, one in the minor mode and one with modulations to the major. The variations are not
numbered and there are no rigid stops; throughout the work Franck's marvellous power of modulation
and rich harmonic texture are eloquently manifested. (3), The Istar Variations for orchestra
by d'Indy is one of the most original works in the whole field; in that, for dramatic reasons
connected with the subject, the usual order is reversed and the variations come first, gradually
becoming more and more simple until we reach the theme itself, pure and unadorned. (4), The
Symphonic Poem, Don Quixote, of R. Strauss, a complex set of Variations on three themes which
typify respectively the characters of Cervantes' story; the Knight, his attendant, Sancho Panza
and Dulcinea. The variations are not confined to a merely abstract or formal treatment of the
material but set before us a picture of the attributes of the characters and a description
of some of their spectacular adventures. (5), Lastly the Enigma Variations for orchestra by
Elgar, so-called because the identity of the basic theme is not revealed. The variations are
character-pieces which for individuality and charm are a lasting glory to the genius of the
composer.[84]

[Footnote 84: For a detailed account see the third volume of D.G. Mason's Appreciation of Music
series.]

We shall now analyze, with suggestive comments, two[85] of the well-known sets of Beethoven:
the first movement of the Sonata, op. 26, and the Six Variations on an original theme, op.
34. The variations from the Sonata are an early work; but, although definitely sectionalized
and with only one change of tonality, they clearly reveal Beethoven's freedom of conception
and his aversion to stereotyped treatment. The theme itself is a suave, appealing melody, already
cited as an example of a sixteen-measure sentence, and admirably suited for variation purposes,
since it arouses at once the expectation of the listener.[86] The first variation is a kind
of shadowy, mysterious outline of the theme just presented, as if the composer were musing
upon the latent possibilities of his material. There is a quickening of interest in the second
variation which, with the theme in the bass, may be likened to a 'cello solo of a mildly bravura
nature. (Note the fantastic accents on weak beats in measures 18, 22, 23, and 24.) In the third
variation comes a complete contrast in mood; the key is changed to A-flat minor and the theme
is transformed into an elegy, all its joy crushed out. The movement abounds in impassioned
dissonances, always emphasized by sf marks, and the throbbing pulsations of the bass--in the
second phrase--give a tragic intensity of feeling. With the fourth variation there enters that
spirit of playfulness so characteristic of Beethoven--the movement being, in fact, a miniature
Scherzo. The fifth and last variation is an idyllic revery in which the composer reviews and
amplifies the many beautiful fancies which his imagination has conceived, and closes with a
coda, based on the motive of the main theme, of tranquillity and satisfaction.

[Footnote 85: These compositions are not printed in the Supplement, as it may be assumed that
the student can readily procure them. They are published in a number of editions.]

[Footnote 86: For some illuminating comments on the whole Sonata see Baxter Perry's Descriptive
Analysis of Pianoforte Works. (The Theodore Presser Co.)]

The set in F major, op. 34, is a striking illustration of Beethoven's fondness for mediant
relationship, since no two variations are in the same key; the tonic of each being a third
below that of the preceding. The Key-scheme is F, D, B-flat, G, E-flat, C minor; and then,
through the descent of a fifth, back to the home-key, or in actual notes:

[Music]

The first variation is a highly embellished treatment of the opening theme; the melodic outline
being merely hinted at in unimportant parts of the phraseology, e.g.

[Music: original theme]

[Music: 1st Variation]

Written in the old ornate style, it is of interest chiefly for the pianistic effect. In the
second Variation we have a change both of time and key; the impression being that of a distant
march for men's voices or for soft trombones. The third Variation, again with change of time
and key, illustrates Beethoven's fondness for a subtle outlining of the theme. In the fourth
Variation the theme is transformed into a Minuet of graceful swing; and in the next Variation
a strong contrast is afforded by the Funeral March, the minor mode being used for the first
time. The last Variation--in the home-key--gives a brilliant summing up of the characteristic
features of the theme. Note especially the reminiscent effect of the closing measures.

CHAPTER IX

THE SONATA-FORM AND ITS FOUNDERS, EMMANUEL BACH AND HAYDN

We have now set forth, with representative illustrations, all the fundamental forms of instrumental
music, i.e., the Canon, Fugue and Invention, the Two and Three-part forms, the Rondo and the
Varied Air. Through the perfecting of these means of expression music became a living language
of communication, ready for that development which, through the genius of the Classic and Romantic
masters, it was destined to show. The essential feature of all the above forms is the emphasis
laid on one theme. This is strictly true of the polyphonic forms, the Canon, Fugue[87] and
Invention and of the Two-part form; and although in the Three-part form we have a second theme,
this is merely for contrast and is often of rather slight import. The same comment holds true
of the Rondo where, notwithstanding the new contrasting themes of the episodes, the centre
of attraction is the single main theme, to which constant recurrence is made. Obviously the
Varied Air is the expansion of a single theme. But the principal characteristic of the Sonata-Form,
now to be studied, is that we find therein two themes of coequal importance, which may well
be compared to the hero and heroine of a novel or the two leading characters in a drama. It
is true that a composer will often in the creations of his imagination show a marked preference
for one theme over the other; just as, in the family group to which the child owes its life,
either the man or the woman is likely to be the stronger character. But as there can be no
child without two parents, so the organism of the Sonata-Form derives its vitality from the
presence and interaction of two living musical personalities, the first and second themes.
The first theme is so called because it is the one first presented and because it generally
furnishes the prevailing rhythmic pulse of the movement. Yet the second theme,--exactly as
important in its own way, is often of a greater beauty; its title of "second theme" implying
nothing of a secondary nature, but merely its position in order of appearance. No greater step
was ever taken in the growth of musical structure than this introduction of a second coequal
theme; for the principle of duality, of action and reaction between two forces, runs throughout
nature both human and physical, as is seen from the import of the terms: man and woman, active
and passive, positive and negative, heat and cold, light and darkness. The first theme, in
fact, often resembles, in its vigor and directness, a masculine personality; while the second
theme, in grace and tenderness, resembles the feminine. As long as music confined itself to
the presentation of but one main theme it was hampered by the same limitations which beset
the early Greek tragedians, in whose primitive plays[88] we find but one chief actor. The introduction
of a second theme can not be attributed to any single man; indeed it resulted from a tendency
of the times, the demand of which was for more homophonic melodies rather than for an elaborate
polyphonic treatment of a single one. Embryonic traces of a second theme we find in D. Scarlatti
(see Supplement No. 40) and in Sebastian Bach himself.[89] Scarlatti,[90] in fact, was often
hovering close to the Sonata-Form and in the example just cited actually achieved it. The systematic
employment of the second-theme principle, however, is commonly attributed to Emmanuel Bach
(1714-1788), although an undue amount of praise, by certain German scholars, has been given
his achievements to the exclusion of musicians from other nations who were working along the
same lines. Any fair historical account of the development of the Sonata-Form should recognize
the Italians, Sammartini and Galuppi; the gifted Belgian Gossec, who exercised such a marked
influence in Paris, and above all, the Bohemian Johann Stamitz (1717-1757), the leader of the
famous Mannheim Orchestra, of whom we shall speak further when we come to the orchestra as
a medium. In many of Stamitz's Symphonies we find the essential first-movement structure (i.e.,
tripartite grouping with a clear second theme) and, as Riemann says in his Handbuch der Musikgeschichte,
"Their sincere phraseology, their boldness of conception and the masterly thematic development
give Stamitz's works lasting value. Haydn and Mozart rest absolutely upon his shoulders."[91]

[Footnote 87: Except in the comparatively rare cases where we have a Fugue on two subjects.]

[Footnote 88: Illuminating comments on this point will be found in Outlines of Musical Form
from W.H. Hadow's Studies in Modern Music (2nd Series).]

[Footnote 89: See the prelude in D major of the second book of the Well-tempered Clavichord.]

[Footnote 90: For further information consult the first chapter of J.S. Shedlock's The Pianoforte
Sonata.]

[Footnote 91: For an extended account of this development see the second chapter, Vol. II,
of The Art of Music (The National Society of Music, N.Y.). See also Chapter XIX of Pratt's
History of Music.]

The other marked characteristic of the Sonata-Form is the second part which is known as the
Development Section; for, as we shall soon explain, the structure as a whole is tripartite.
In this portion of the movement the composer has an opportunity to improvise, as it were, with
his material, using one theme or both as already presented. Dry and labored development sections
may, of course, be found in certain Sonatas and Symphonies, but in the great works of such
masters as Beethoven, Brahms, Tchaikowsky and d'Indy the development is the most exciting part
of the movement. The hearer is conducted through a musical excursion; every device of rhythmic
variety, of modulatory change and polyphonic imitation being employed to enhance the beauty
of the themes and to reveal their latent possibilities.

Before going further, it is well to point out a confusion which often arises between the terms
Sonata and Sonata-Form. When we speak of Sonata-Form we mean invariably the structural treatment
as to number of themes, key-relationship, etc., of any single movement within a series.[92]
By the term Sonata is meant a composition generally in three or four movements, e.g., First
Movement, Slow Movement, Minuet or Scherzo and Finale; of which, in most examples of the classic
school, the First Movement--and often the last--were in Sonata-Form. An alternative name, indeed,
for Sonata-Form is First Movement Form. Beginning with Beethoven, however, composers began
to exhibit great freedom in the application of the Sonata-Form. We find Sonatas of Beethoven,
notably the set op. 31, in which every movement (even the Scherzo) is in Sonata Form or a modification
thereof; on the other hand, there are compositions, entitled Sonatas, in which not a single
movement is in pure Sonata-Form, e.g., Beethoven's Twelfth Sonata, op. 26. These comments apply
equally to many other large instrumental works. For a symphony is merely a Sonata for Orchestra,
a String-Quartet a composition--of the same general type--for four solo instruments[93] and
there is, furthermore, a large group of ensemble compositions: Sonatas for Violin (or any solo-instrument)
and Pianoforte; Trios, often for unusual combinations, e.g., Brahms's Trio for Violin, Horn
and Pianoforte; Quintets and even Septets--in all of which the distinction must be made between
the terms Sonata and Sonata-Form. Nor is there any rigid rule in regard to number of movements
or the moods expressed therein. The classic Sonata, Symphony or Quartet, as we have stated
above, generally contained three or four movements, of which the first would be direct and
vigorous in nature--a summons to attention--cast in sonata-form, with a wealth of material
organically treated, and requiring from the listener concentrated attention. The second movement
was generally much simpler in form, affording relief after the tension of the preceding movement--its
themes of a lyric nature, often with great depth of emotion, sometimes even of tragic import.
The third movement, Minuet or Scherzo, would portray the light, humorous side of life; and
the Finale, joyful and optimistic--its themes often bearing strongly the sense of finality--would
close the work with a general feeling of satisfaction. It was Beethoven who first modified
these principles to suit his own poetic needs. Thus we find some of his Sonatas with only two
movements; some have three, some have four. One of Schumann's Symphonies contains five movements
and Rubinstein's Ocean Symphony seven! When we reach the modern school, we shall see further
freedom as to number, order and type of movements.

[Footnote 92: The form is also sometimes used independently, as in Brahms's Rhapsody in G minor
and often, of course, in the Overture.]

[Footnote 93: I.e., 1st Violin, 2d Violin, Viola and Violoncello.]

We are now prepared to sum up the essential characteristics of the Sonata-Form; for there is
no structure in which it is more important for the music-lover to acquire the art of listening
easily, naturally and with a minimum of friction. The Sonata-Form is the instrumental form
"par excellence"--the Gothic Cathedral[94] of music--and has retained its place, not because
of any slavish regard for form as such, but because it has been worked out, perfected and utilized
by the greatest of the composers. Any form with a beginning, a middle and an ending, i.e.,
presenting material worthy of consideration, which allows this material to grow and realize
its inherent possibilities and then sums the matter up in a convincing, objective close; which,
furthermore, exemplifies the great principle of Duality, i.e., reveals two musical personalities,
has as little need for argumentative sanction as a tree or a human being. The Sonata-Form--often,
to be sure, with free modifications--predominates in all the large instrumental compositions
of the Classic, Romantic and Modern Composers, notably of such men as Beethoven, Schumann,
Brahms, César Franck, Tchaikowsky, d'Indy and Sibelius. Anyone unable readily to follow movements
in this form, if he thinks he is receiving the complete message of the music, is his own dupe.
It would be as logical to expect to enjoy the beauties of architecture without perceiving the
difference between a nave and a bowling-alley. The obvious way to understand the meaning of
a language is to know something of the principles of structure and expression in that language.
Music is in very truth a language; and far too many people get from it nothing save the appeal
which comes from its emotional power. This exciting experience is important, we may frankly
acknowledge, but there are no reasons, save apathy and indifference, why the hearer should
not have all this and more too. There is no conflict between warm emotions and an intelligent,
well-trained mind. They should go hand in hand; and in any complete artistic appreciation each
is indispensable.[95]

[Footnote 94: See the eloquent comments on this analogy by d'Indy in his Course in Composition,
Vol. II, Chap. 5.]

[Footnote 95: "Art is not more a riot of the passions than it is a debauch of the senses; it
contains, no doubt, sensuous and emotional elements, the importance of which there is no need
to undervalue, but it is only artistic if it subordinate them to the paramount claims of reason."
W.H. Hadow, Studies in Modern Music (second series), preface.]

The three main divisions of the Sonata-Form, with their essential features, are the following:
(1) the Exposition, in which two themes in different tonalities are announced for the consideration--and,
as the composer hopes, the pleasure--of the hearer. In the works of Haydn and Mozart this contrast
of key was invariably that of Tonic and Dominant, e.g., C major and G major, or of major and
relative minor, e.g., A-flat major and F minor. Beginning, however, with Beethoven great emphasis
has been laid on mediant relationship, e.g., C major and E major or C major and A-flat major;
and in modern composers[96] this more stimulating change has largely superseded the former
tonic and dominant grouping, e.g., Brahms's Third Symphony. We thus see that the harmonic feature
of the Exposition is Duality of Key-relationship. Between these two main themes there is always
a modulatory connection or Bridge Passage which, in the time of Haydn, was generally of a very
perfunctory, stereotyped character. Wagner once sarcastically remarked that Haydn's transitions
reminded him of the clatter of dishes between courses at a royal feast. In Mozart we find the
bridge-passage more deftly planned, more organically connected with what precedes and follows;
but it was Beethoven who, in this portion of the movement, first revealed its possibilities.
Throughout his works the bridge-passage is never a mere mechanical modulation or a floundering
about until the introduction of the second theme, but is so conceived that the interest of
the hearer is increasingly aroused until, at the entrance of the second theme, he is in the
highest state of expectancy.[97] A bridge-passage of this kind often has a subsidiary theme
of its own, or even several melodic phrases, and is planned as carefully as the action by which
a dramatist leads up to the entrance of his heroine. After the second theme we generally find
a closing theme to round out the Exposition as a whole. This practice dates from Haydn and
has been much expanded by modern composers. Witness the glorious climactic effect in César
Franck's Symphony and in Brahms's D major Symphony of the closing themes in the Expositions
of the first movements. For many years it was the invariable custom to repeat the Exposition,
and in Classic Symphonies we always find a double bar with marks of repeat and two endings.
This practice was not an integral part of the form but was adopted so that the hearer, by going
over the themes of the Exposition twice, might follow more intelligently their growth in the
Development. With the advance in public appreciation this repeating of the Exposition has been
largely abandoned; for there is no doubt that to begin all over again, when a certain objective
point has been reached, breaks the continuous flow of the movement.[98]

[Footnote 96: Some composers have also experimented with still freer key-relationships.]

[Footnote 97: For striking examples see the Expositions of the first movements of Beethoven's
Third Symphony and of Tchaikowsky's Sixth Symphony.]

[Footnote 98: The ultra-conservative attitude of Brahms is shown by his retention of the double
bar and repeat, although this is often ignored by modern conductors.]

(2) The Development, for which the Germans have the happy name of "Freie Phantasie," or free
phantasy; the composer thus giving rein to his imagination and doing whatever he pleases, so
long as he holds the interest of his hearers and neither becomes verbose nor indulges in mere
mechanical manipulation. There are, alas! developments in which the composer exhausts his themes
and his hearers too;[99] but on work of this kind, since it is not real development but labored
jugglery, no powder need be wasted. Beethoven began the practice, in his Developments, of not
confining himself to the themes of the Exposition but of introducing an entirely new theme,
whenever the main material had fulfilled its purpose. The single most exciting factor in a
good development is the freedom and wealth of modulation revealed by the daring genius of the
creator; the effect being Plurality of Key-relationship, in distinction from the two closely
related keys of the Exposition. It would often seem as if we were taken up into high mountains
or borne away to distant seas. For illustrations of this "free phantasy" note the end of the
Development in the first movement of Beethoven's Second Symphony where, after great stress
has been laid in the Exposition on the two basic keys of D major and A major, we are left in
the distant tonality of C-sharp major and are then whirled back, by a dramatic change, into
the home-key of the third part. One of the most interesting studies in the workings of a great
mind is to observe how Beethoven, in his developments, allows the excitement to subside and
yet never entirely die out, and how deftly he leads the hearer onward to the summing up of
the main themes of the exposition.

[Footnote 99: It was probably a development of this kind which called forth the characteristic
comment from Debussy who once remarked to a friend at a concert, "Let us flee! he is going
to develop."]

(3) The Recapitulation or Résumé, in which both the themes of the Exposition are reasserted,
each in the home key--a strong final emphasis thus being laid on Unity of Tonality. The bridge-passage
has to be correspondingly changed, for now the modulation is between two themes both in the
same key. To achieve such a modulation is quite a "tour de force" as every musician knows,
and often taxed the ingenuity even of the great Beethoven. The skill by which he always made
the second theme sound fresh and vital is astounding. For a case of "academic fumbling"--mere
treading of water--in this adjustment of key relationship, see the Recapitulation of the first
movement of Brahms's Second Symphony. To secure unbroken continuity and to avoid vain repetitions[100]
there is no portion of the Sonata-Form which has been more modified by the inventive genius
of modern composers and by the tendency exemplified in the Symphonic Poem (to be explained
in due season). The general validity of Restatement, as shown in the Recapitulation of the
Sonata-Form, cannot be questioned; for that depends, as so often pointed out, upon the human
craving to enjoy once more, after intervening contrast, something which has originally given
pleasure. Furthermore this sound psychological principle finds an analogy in our own life:
with its early years of striving, its middle period of development and its closing years of
climactic retrospect and satisfaction. There is a corresponding structural treatment in the
dénoûment of a drama. In the classic composers, the Recapitulation is almost always a literal
repetition of the Exposition, although Beethoven began to be freer, e.g., in the climax of
the Coriolanus overture, where he modifies the form to meet the dramatic needs of the subject.[101]
Modern composers, however, have felt that much of this repetition was superfluous; and when
they do repeat both themes, one or the other is freely varied and made still more eloquent.
For examples, see the résumé of the first movements of Franck's Symphony, of Brahms's First
Symphony and of Tchaikowsky's Sixth. The Recapitulation is often abridged by omitting the first
theme altogether and dwelling exclusively on the second; as for example, in the Finale of Schumann's
Fourth Symphony and in Sinigaglia's Overture, Le Baruffe Chiozzotte.[102]

[Footnote 100: See Grétry's amusing comments on the Sonata-Form cited by Romain Rolland in
the essays Musicians of Former Days.]

[Footnote 101: See also Wagner's comments on the Third Leonora Overture, cited by Ernest Newman
in his Musical Studies, pp. 134-135.]

[Footnote 102: Additional illustrations of this treatment may be found in Chabrier's Overture
to Gwendoline and in the first movement of F.S. Converse's String Quartet.]

It remains to speak of the beginning and end of the Sonata-Form. With Haydn it became the custom,
not necessarily invariable, to introduce the body of the movement by a Prelude which, in early
days, was of slight texture and import--often a mere preliminary "flourish of trumpets," a
presenting of arms. In Mozart we find some examples of more artistic treatment, notably in
the Overture to the Magic Flute and in the prelude to the C major Quartet with its stimulating
dissonances. But in this case, as in so many others, it was Beethoven who first showed what
a Prelude should be: a subtle means of arousing the interest and expectancy of the hearer;
the effect as carefully planned as the portico leading to a temple. To usher in the theme of
the Exposition in a truly exciting manner every means of modulation and rhythm is employed;
famous illustrations being the introductions to the first movements of the Second, Fourth and
Seventh symphonies; and, in modern literature, those of the first movements of Brahms's First
Symphony and of Tchaikowsky's Fifth. It also became customary to prolong the end of the movement
by what is termed a Coda; the same tendency being operative that is found in the peroration
to a speech or in the spire of a cathedral, i.e., the human instinct to end whatever we attempt
as impressively and completely as possible. This Coda, which, in Haydn and Mozart, was often
a mere iteration of trite chords--a ceasing to go--was so expanded by Beethoven that it was
the real glory of the whole movement. In fact so many eloquent treatments of the main material
were reserved for the Coda that it often became a second development; and such was its scope
that the form may be considered to have four parts instead of three, i.e., 1, Exposition, 2,
Development, 3, Recapitulation, 4, Coda; parts 4 and 2 balancing each other in the same way
as 3 and 1. For two of the most famous examples in all Beethoven literature see the Codas to
the First movement of the Third Symphony and to the Finale of the Eighth.

We now present a tabular view of the Sonata-Form summing up the features just commented upon.

THE SONATA-FORM OR FIRST-MOVEMENT FORM

A                         | B                         | A´
Exposition                | Development               | Recapitulation
||
                          |                           |
Introduction (optional)   | Free treatment and        | First Theme,
First Theme               |  expansion, especially    |  connecting passage
Modulatory bridge-passage |  modulatory and rhythmic, |  leading to
Second Theme              |  of the themes already    | Second Theme (often
Closing Theme             |  presented                |  in home-key, but
(Duality of               | Sometimes new material    |  not always)
 Key-relationship)        |  introduced               | Closing Theme
                          | (Plurality of Key)        | Coda
                          |                           | (Special stress
                          |                           |  laid on the main
                          |                           |  tonality. Unity of
                          |                           |  Key)
||

For actual musical examples it seems best to begin with the works of Haydn. This exclusion
of Philip Emmanuel Bach is not meant to minimize what we owe him for his preliminary efforts
in formulating the tripartite Sonata structure, with its two themes and its Development portion.
Haydn is on record as saying that it was his study of six Sonatas of Emmanuel Bach which laid
the foundations for his own instrumental style. But on the whole, the compositions of Emmanuel
Bach are of interest rather from a historical point of view than from one purely artistic.
The object of this book, furthermore, is not to give a complete account of the evolution[103]
of the Sonata-Form; but, accepting the existence of standard works which employ this form,
to enable the student to gain a more complete appreciation of those works. P.E. Bach wrote
in the so-called "galant style"[104] of the period which has, for our modern ears, too much
embellishment and too many meaningless, rhapsodic passages. He made a sincere effort to invent
pure instrumental melody, i.e., musical expression suited to various instruments that should
be unhampered by the too definite balance of the dance forms, by polyphonic complexities or
by the conventional artifices of operatic style. But though he wrote skilfully for his instrument
and though his style has a certain quaint charm, on the whole it is lacking in genuine melodic
warmth and feeling. These qualities alone keep works immortal.[105]

[Footnote 103: Those interested in this development should consult The Pianoforte Sonata by
J.S. Shedlock, and above all, d'Indy's Course of Musical Composition, Part III.]

[Footnote 104: This, according to d'Indy, was so-called because pleasing to the ladies who
played an important part in the elaborate court ceremonial of that day.]

[Footnote 105: Six of P.E. Bach's Sonatas edited by von Bülow are readily accessible and some
excellent comments upon the most significant ones may be found in Shedlock (see above).]

In Josef Haydn (1782-1809) we are face to face with a musician of a different type. Haydn is
popularly known as the father of the Sonata, the Symphony and the String-Quartet; but, according
to Edward Dickinson,[106] this estimate is something of an exaggeration, for "it overlooks
the fact that a large number of composers were struggling with the same problem and working
along similar lines. Haydn was simply the greatest in genius of the instrumental writers of
his day. His works have lived by virtue of the superiority, i.e., the greater spontaneity and
vitality, of their contents. He should be called the 'foster-father,' rather than the father
of the symphony and quartet for he raised them from feebleness to strength and authority."
To him must be given the honor of establishing the types of instrumental composition which
became the foundations of modern music. Haydn, moreover, was the first musician since Sebastian
Bach who had a real personality which may be felt in his works. To speak of a piece of music
as "Haydnish" conveys as distinct a meaning as to refer to a poetic stanza as "Miltonic." When
Haydn arrived on the scene, music--through the labors of many earnest workers--had become a
language of definite expression, with a logical grammar and with principles of structure. The
time was ripe for the use of this language in a more artistic way, i.e., for a more intense
personal expression and for more subtle treatment of the material. The composer could count
upon the public following his points; and with Haydn, whose heart beat in sympathy with the
common people, music begins to be a truly popular art.

[Footnote 106: See his Study of the History of Music, p. 154.]

The striking features in Haydn's works are three: (1) The wealth of spontaneous and sparkling
melodies, for he was born with this lyric gift and never had to cudgel his wits for a tune.
That instrumental melody could make such sudden progress as we find between the dryness of
Emmanuel Bach and the freshness of Haydn, was long a puzzle to scholars, and only recently
has the proof been submitted that Haydn was largely of Croatian ancestry. Now the Croatians
of Southern Austria are one of the most musical races in the world, with a wealth of folk-songs
and dances. Haydn therefore did not have to "invent" melodies in the ordinary sense of the
term; they were his birthright. Many of his melodies are adaptations of actual folk-songs[107]
or original melodies coming from an imagination saturated with the folk-song spirit.[108] For
this reason they seem like wild flowers in their perennial freshness and charm. (2) The precision
and clarity with which his ideas are presented. These qualities were due to his well-balanced
and logical intellect that impressed everyone with whom he came in contact. His style, moreover,
was the result of indefatigable labor, for he was largely self-taught. If the balance of his
phrases and the general symmetry of his style seem to our modern taste a bit excessive, we
must remember that he was a pioneer and could run no risks in the way of non-acceptance of
his message through puzzling complexities. Everything must be so clear that the ordinary mind
could at once accept it. Nor is the "sing-song," "square-toed" element so prevalent in Haydn
as is commonly supposed. In his melody a distinct feature--no doubt of racial origin--is his
fondness for odd rhythms of three, five and seven measures, of which examples abound in the
Quartets. In his Minuets and Finales there is a rollicking effect of high spirits which could
never have been attained by mere labored pedantry. In his mature works we find a pervading
spontaneity which is one of the outstanding examples in all literature of "art concealing art."
Never do these works smell of the lamp, and let us remember it is far easier to criticize them
than to create them.[109]

[Footnote 107: See for example the Salomon Symphony in E-flat, every movement of which is founded
on a Croatian folk-song.]

[Footnote 108: For a comprehensive account of this whole subject consult the Oxford History
of Music, Vol. V, Chapter VIII, and Mason's Beethoven and His Forerunners, essay on Haydn.]

[Footnote 109: Witness for example, the attitude taken by Wallace in his Threshold of Music,
pp. 148-153.]

(3) The skillful and eloquent manner in which Haydn adapted his ideas to his favorite media
of expression: the orchestra and the string-quartet. Although he wrote a number of pianoforte
sonatas, these works, on the whole, do not represent his best thought. For they were composed
in the transitional period between the waning influence of the harpsichord and the advent of
the pianoforte, not yet come to its own. But as for the orchestra, Haydn established[110] the
grouping of the three so-called choirs of strings, wood-wind and brass; to which were gradually
added the instruments of percussion. In his works we begin to enjoy orchestral effect for its
own sake: the dashing vivacity of the strings, the mellowness of the wood-wind, the sonority
and grandeur of the brass. Instrumental works had formerly been composed in black and white,
but now we have the interplay of orchestral colors. No less paramount was Haydn's influence
in the handling of the four solo instruments known as the String Quartet. In his Quartets the
voices are so highly individualized that it seems as if four intelligent and witty persons
were holding a musical conversation. Such melodic and rhythmic freedom were hitherto unknown
and his style became the point of departure for modern practice.[111] Both Mozart and Beethoven,
those great masters of the String-Quartet, acknowledged their debt of gratitude to Haydn. His
success in establishing the formation of the orchestra and the string-quartet was chiefly due
to the inestimable advantage he enjoyed of being, for so many years, chapel-master to those
celebrated patrons of music the Princes Paul and Nicholas Esterhazy, at whose country-seat
of Esterhaz he had at his disposal, for free experimentation, a fine body of players.[112]
Here Haydn worked from 1762 until 1790; and, to quote his own words, "could, as conductor of
an orchestra, make experiments, observe what produced an effect and be as bold as I pleased.
I was cut off from the world, there was no one to confuse or torment me and I was forced to
become original."[113]

[Footnote 110: For the early and significant achievements in orchestral effect of the Mannheim
Orchestra under its famous leader Stamitz, see The Art of Music, Vol. 8, Chapter II.]

[Footnote 111: For interesting comments on the String Quartets see Hadden's Life of Haydn,
pp. 174-175.]

[Footnote 112: The Oxford History of Music, Vol. V, Chapter I, and The Present State of Music
in Germany by Burney present a vivid picture of the times and of the results of 18th century
patronage.]

[Footnote 113: For an entertaining account of the two London visits, which took place during
the latter part of his career, see the essay Haydn in London by Krehbiel in his Music and Manners.]

As to the formal side of Haydn's work, he is responsible for several distinct improvements.
The different divisions of the movement are more clearly defined--sometimes perhaps, as we
look back, a bit rigidly--but no more so than was necessary for a public just beginning to
follow easily the main outlines of the form. Haydn leads up to his objective points in a clear-cut,
logical way and there is little of "running off into the sand" or of those otherwise aimless
passages so prevalent in Emmanuel Bach. In his best works, notably in many of the Quartets,
there is also more individuality secured for the second theme;[114] although for highly personified
and moving second themes we have to await the greater genius of Mozart and Beethoven. Whenever
we are inclined to call Haydn's style old-fashioned we must remember that he wrote before the
note of intense personal expression--the so-called subjective element, prominent in Beethoven--had
come to the fore. The time just prior to Haydn had been called the "Pig-tail period" (Zopf-Periode)
in reference to the stiff and precise dress and manners which had their counterpart in formality
of artistic expression. Only towards the end of his career do we feel that breath of freedom
in life and art which was generated by the French Revolution (beginning in 1791) and by the
many political and social changes of that stirring period. From Haydn on, much more attention
should be paid to the content and meaning of the music than to the formal handling of the material.
In all worthy music, in fact, the chief point of interest is the music itself which speaks
to us in its own language of sound and rhythm. A knowledge of form is but a means to an end:
for the composer, that he may express himself clearly and convincingly, and for the listener,
that he may readily receive the message set forth. In Haydn's music we find the expression
of a real personality--though of an artless, child-like type, without great depth of emotion
or the tragic intensity of a Beethoven. Haydn was not a philosopher, or a man of broad vision.
During his epoch, artists hardly dared to be introspective. His imagination gave birth to music,
simple though it was, as freely as the earth puts forth flowers; but, although he wore a wig,
he had a heart which was in good working operation even in his sixty-fourth year when, during
his London visit, he fell in love with a charming widow, Madame Schroeter, whom he would have
married had not his wife been still alive.

[Footnote 114: In many cases Haydn's second theme is merely a varied version of the first.]

We should acquire the catholic taste to enjoy every composer for what he really was and not
criticise him for what he was not--a state which would imply necessarily different conditions.
In criticism there is no worse error, or one more often made, than that of blaming Haydn because
he was not Beethoven; or, in our times, Tchaikowsky because his music does not resemble that
of Brahms. Blasé pedants often call Haydn's music "tame"; we might as well apply that adjective
to the antics of a sportive kitten. As for the "amiable prattle" of his style we do not speak
in a derogatory way of the fresh, innocent voices of children, though we need not listen to
them continually. Haydn, in short, is Haydn,[115] and the vitality and sincerity of his works
will always keep them immortal. In these feverish days we may dwell upon the simplicity of
"Papa Haydn," as he was affectionately called; who would kneel down before beginning work,
and who inscribed his scores "In nomine Domini." His modest estimate of his own powers cannot
fail to touch our hearts. "I know," he said, "that God has bestowed a talent upon me, and I
thank him for it. I think I have done my duty, and been of use in my generation by my works;
let others do the same."

[Footnote 115: Haydn's life is of great interest in showing the traits which are reflected
in his music. Everyone should read the biography in Grove's Dictionary, Vol. II, p. 348, and
the excellent life by M. Brenet in Les Maîtres de la Musique.]

We shall now make a few comments on the illustrations in the Supplement (see Exs. No. 41 and
42): the Finale of the Sonata for Pianoforte in E-flat major and the first movement of the
so-called Surprise Symphony in G major. Haydn, of all composers, needs little verbal elucidation;
his music speaks for itself and everyone must be sensitive to its vitality and charm. We regret
that it is not practical to give examples from the Quartets which, in many respects--especially
in the Minuets with their inexhaustible invention[116] and their bubbling spirits--represent
Haydn at his best. But the real effect of his Quartets is so bound up with idiomatic treatment
of the strings that in any transcription for pianoforte the music suffers grievously. It is
through the score, however, that everyone should become familiar, with the contents of the
Quartets in C major, op. 76, and D major, op. 64; the Finale of the latter being one of the
supreme examples in all chamber literature[117] of rhythmic vitality.

[Footnote 116: Haydn himself used to speak of his melodic invention as "a stream which bursts
forth from an overflowing reservoir."]

[Footnote 117: In every large city there are, of course, frequent opportunities to hear the
Quartets of Haydn played by such famous organizations as the Flonzaley Quartet etc. The student
is urged to take advantage of these occasions.]

The Finale of the E-flat sonata, in strict Sonata-form, begins with a lively eight-measure
phrase which is at once repeated a tone higher. The extension of the sentence shows Haydn's
freedom in phraseology; for, beginning with measure 17, we should have to count the measures
1, 2, 3, 3a, 4, 5, 6, 6a, 7, 7a, 8, 8a. In the second theme, which begins in the 44th measure,
note the piquant dissonances[118] coupled with sforzando accents. Haydn surely liked spice
as well as anyone! The rest of the Exposition is taken up with closing passages which accentuate
the tonality of the second theme--B-flat major. The Development needs no comment, as the correspondence
between the original material and Haydn's treatment is perfectly clear. The Recapitulation
is a literal repetition of the Exposition, with the two themes as usual in the tonic key. The
movement may be considered an example of Sonata-form in its clearest manifestation, hence an
excellent one for preliminary analytical study.

[Footnote 118: Those who erroneously think that there is nothing of the dissonant element in
Haydn should examine the Prelude to The Creation--a real anticipation, in its use of the chromatic
element, of Tristan and Isolde.]

In the first movement of the Surprise Symphony, before the body of the work begins, we have
an early example of the Prelude. This slow Prelude, short though it be, is most carefully planned;
with its crescendo from pp to a sf forte and its free modulation it arouses a genuine feeling
of expectancy. The first theme of the Exposition (Vivace Assai) is a happy illustration of
Haydn's sparkling rhythm, and as tossed off by the violins is of irresistible gaiety. The reader
is asked to remember that the comments on this symphony--and on all subsequent symphonic works--are
based upon the orchestral score; also that the composition, when separated from its orchestral
dress, necessarily loses much of its real eloquence. Thus the first theme, of a folk-dance
character, is a typical violin melody; only strings--with their incisiveness and power of subtle
phrasing--can fully express its piquancy. For private study or for class-room work, a practical
version is that for four hands; or better still, when possible, the arrangement for two pianofortes.[119]
The second phrase of the first theme is considerably expanded by repetition, as if unable to
stop from sheer exuberance, but finally reaches a cadence in the dominant key in the 32nd measure.
We are at once taken back, however, to the home-key of G major; and, in measure 40, the first
theme is repeated, this time delicately embellished with phrases on the flute. From now on,
by reason of the emphasis laid on the key of D major, it is evident that we are in the transitional
passage and are heading towards the announcement of the second theme. It must be said that
Haydn does not drive very straight at his mark; though it is a pleasant touch of variety in
measures 55-57 to introduce the main theme in the minor mode, and though the fiery violin passages
in the following measures give an air of considerable excitement. What stands for the second
theme begins in measure 67. This portion of the movement has no theme with genuine individuality,
but consists of running passages--based exclusively on tonic and dominant harmonies in the
new key, and of little import save one of general vivacity. It is, however, decidedly alive--not
stagnant or flabby--and in the orchestra it all "comes off." We are rewarded, finally, by a
clear-cut closing theme of jaunty rhythm, e.g.,

[Music]

which Haydn liked so much that it is presented twice, the second time slightly embellished.
The Exposition closes with the conventional insistence upon a strong cadence in the key of
the second theme. The Development begins with some rather fragmentary treatment of the first
theme; then, after some fugitive modulation into flat keys, contents itself with running passages
and a series of iterated notes. Of organic and sustained development, such as Haydn indeed
sometimes attained, there is little trace. Even so we must be chary of sweeping condemnation;
for there are well-planned dynamic contrasts and the instruments are used in such a natural
way--especially the figure in the double basses (measures 149-153)--that the scene is one of
animation, though perhaps no more than one of aimless gambols. There is sufficient modulation,
so that the principle of Plurality of key is carried out. We are suddenly but gracefully led
back, in measure 155, to the repetition of the first theme, thus beginning the Recapitulation.
This portion, with certain abbreviations, is an almost exact duplication of the first part
and emphasizes the main tonality of G major. That Haydn was not forced to this literal repetition
through any lack of fancy is shown by the skilful amplification of the first theme, in measures
177-184. The whole movement sparkles with sunshine; and those ponderous "heavy-weights" who
criticise it because it is not deep or "soulful" are looking for qualities which the music
does not pretend to contain. It is the work of a wholesome, cheerful-hearted man expressing
through his favorite language his joy in life. In listening to the music we have the same delight
as in wandering by the side of a rippling brook. The three remaining movements of the Symphony
require little comment; being readily accessible they are not given in the Supplement. The
second movement, a set of stereotyped variations, contains the explosive chord which gave to
the work its descriptive title. Needless to say that this chord does not "surprise" our modern
ears to any great extent. The Minuet is one of Haydn's best--full of queer antics in rhythm
and modulation. The Finale (Allegro di molto), in the Rondo Sonata form, is the acme of Haydn's
vivacity and is a "tour de force" of brilliant writing for the strings. In many passages they
seem fairly to burn.

[Footnote 119: All symphonic scores give a much better effect when performed on two pianofortes
than in a four-hand arrangement for a single instrument. The freedom in control of both pedals
possessed by each player secures a greater richness and sonority of tone and it is much easier
to make prominent voices stand out in relief.]

Haydn's position in the development of music is of the first importance. Whatever his works
may "mean," they contain a rhythmic vitality which will keep them alive for ever, and their
"child-like cheerfulness and drollery" will charm away care and sorrow as long as the world
shall last.

CHAPTER X

MOZART. THE PERFECTION OF CLASSIC STRUCTURE AND STYLE

Although Mozart, Wolfgang Amadeus[120] (1756-1791), was, in regard to art problems, no more
of a broad thinker than Haydn (Mozart and Schubert being pre-eminently men whose whole nature
centered in music), yet on hearing his works we are aware that aspects of form and content
have certainly changed for the better. In the first place he was more highly gifted than Haydn;
he had from his infancy the advantage of a broad cosmopolitan experience, and he was dimly
conscious of the expanding possibilities of musical expression. It is a perfectly fair distinction
to consider Haydn an able, even brilliant prose-writer, and Mozart a poet. Haydn we can account
for, but Mozart is the genius "born, not made"--defying classification--and his inspired works
seem to fall straight from the blue of Heaven. Whereas Haydn, Beethoven and Schubert were all
of very lowly parentage[121] (their mothers being cooks--a blessing on their heads!), Mozart's
father and mother were people of considerable general cultivation, and in particular the father,
Leopold Mozart, was an educated man and somewhat of a composer himself, who since 1743 had
been in the service of the Archbishop of Salzburg, as director of his private orchestra. An
excellent violinist, he had written and published a treatise on violin playing, which for many
years was the standard work on the subject. Both parents were noted for their good looks, were,
moreover, of strong character and highly respectable in every way. Among their several children
two early exhibited unusual precocity--Maria Anna, born in 1751, and Wolfgang, still more highly
gifted. The stories of the boy's skill and general delicacy of perception may be exaggerated,
but we have sufficient valid evidence to convince us that he was a phenomenon absolutely "sui
generis." Thus, he began to improvise between three and four, actually to compose little pieces
(which we have), when he was five, and to perform in public when he was six! In that very year
and continuing for nineteen years (until Mozart had reached the age of twenty-five) began the
memorable series of concert tours--eleven in all--comprising Vienna, all the chief cities of
Italy and Germany, even Paris and London. These tours the father planned and carried through
with the utmost solicitude and self-sacrifice--not to exploit the talented children, but to
give them a comprehensive education and artistic experience, and eventually to secure for his
son some distinguished post worthy his abilities. It is quite impossible to rehearse all the
details of these trips. For one who wishes to investigate for himself they truly make fascinating
reading. A single incident, however, will show how clearly defined were the two personalities
which made up the complete Mozart; and of which one or the other was in the ascendant throughout
his life. As a man, Mozart was light-hearted, witty--even volatile--fond of society, dancing,
and a good time generally; not of the strongest intellectual power, judged by modern standards,
but, as shown by his marvellous dramatic insight, by no means the debonair light-weight he
is often represented. Yet whenever music was under consideration he was a changed being; he
became instantly serious, and would suffer no disrespect to himself or to his art. During the
last sad years of his career in Vienna, when he was in actual want for the bare necessities
of life, a publisher once said to him, "Write in a more popular style, or I will not print
a note of your music or give you a kreutzer." "Then, my good sir," replied Mozart, "I have
only to resign myself and die of hunger."

[Footnote 120: Amadeus (the beloved of God).]

[Footnote 121: We may appropriately state that in regard to ancestry and environment all four
of the so-called Viennese masters, Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven and Schubert are distinct refutations
of the claims so persistently made by German scholars that everything good in music we owe
to the Teutons. Haydn was largely Croatian; Mozart was strongly influenced by non-Teutonic
folk-music (Tyrolese melodies frequently peep out in his works); Schubert's forebears came
from Moravia and Silesia; and Beethoven was partly Dutch. If there be any single race to which
the world owes the art of music it is the Italians, for they invented most of the instruments
and hinted at all the vocal and instrumental forms. We may be grateful to the Germans for their
persevering appropriation of what others had begun; only let them not claim all the credit.]

In Mozart's works, in distinction from the unconscious, naïve folk-song type of Haydn, we find
highly wrought instrumental melodies; although such was his inborn spontaneity of expression
that we are never aware of the labor expended. His works are quite as clear as those of Haydn,
but they show a more conscious individuality of style. They are not so artless, and the phraseology
is more elastic--less cut and dried. There is a higher imaginative vitality; trite, mechanical
repetitions are in general avoided, climaxes are led up to in a more subtle manner, and a great
gain is made in real organic development. For Mozart, as a master of polyphonic treatment,
is second only to Bach. The most striking single feature in his work is the ceaseless flow
of expressive melody, notably those wondrous tunes found in his operas, such as "Voi che sapete,"
"Batti, batti" and numerous others. He had travelled so widely, so keen was his power of assimilation
that his melodic style embodied and enhanced the best qualities of contemporary Italian, French
and German practice. And yet his innate genius was of sufficient strength to achieve this result
without lapsing into formal eclecticism. Whatever suggestions he took he made wholly his own;
and his music is nothing if not individual in its inimitable charm and freshness. Whereas Haydn's
music often smacks too prominently of the soil, with Mozart we have the fine flower of a broad
artistic culture. In his best symphonies and string quartets the art of music made a distinct
advance and began to be capable of expressing the universal emotions and aspirations of mankind.

The reactive influence--each upon the other--of Haydn (1732-1809) and Mozart (1756-1791) is
a most interesting feature of the period.[122] By the time Mozart was ripe for his best work
Haydn had formulated and exemplified the main lines of instrumental structure. From this preparatory
work Mozart reaped such an advantage that in his last compositions there is a spontaneous flowering
of genius--a union of individual content with perfect clarity of style--which has kept them
alive to this day. Haydn's last symphonies, the two Salomon sets composed for his London tours,
show in their turn abundant signs of the stimulating influence of the younger man. The perennial
importance of form and style cannot be better understood than by recognizing the fact that
both Tchaikowsky and Richard Strauss, two of the most fearlessly independent of modern composers,
have considered Mozart as their ideal. But even if in Mozart's best works we are not beyond
the preponderating influence of form over substance, they must be judged on their own intrinsic
merits and not with reference to progress made since--of which, nevertheless, they were an
important foundation. His technique was quite sufficient to express what he had to say. We
seldom feel that the contents are bursting through the form, that the spirit is too great for
the body. Purity of conception and faultlessness of workmanship were still the desiderata of
music. The world had to wait for a Beethoven before the hearer should be shaken out of himself
by a spiritual power, of which the music at best was often an inadequate expression. This statement
is meant to contain no disparagement. Because Beethoven was more elemental we must never belittle
the genius of his predecessor. Any familiarity with Mozart's works will convince us of the
gratitude we owe him for his original harmonies, for the stimulating contrapuntal texture and
for the perfect finish and care for detail found therein. Could we be forever content with
"abstract music"--that which justifies itself by a fulfilment of its own inherent laws--Mozart's
music would remain the acme of the art. His fame to-day rests upon his string quartets, his
three principal symphonies, and--above all--the operas, of which Don Giovanni and the Marriage
of Figaro are noted examples. For consummate character-drawing (so that, as Rubinstein remarks,
"Each acting personage has become an immortal type"), for interest sustained by unflagging
musical vitality, for a combination of humor and seriousness and for ingenious and characteristic
handling of the orchestral forces, these works were unequalled until the advent of Wagner and
even to-day in their own field remain unsurpassed. The real charm of Mozart--that sunny radiance,
at times shot through with a haunting pathos--eludes verbal description. As well attempt to
put into words the fragrance and charm of a violet. Hazlitt's fine phrase, apropos of performance,
says much in a few words. "Mozart's music seems to come from the air and should return to it,"
and the ecstatic eulogy of Goethe, to whom genius meant Mozart, should be familiar to all.
"What else is genius than that productive power through which deeds arise, worthy of standing
in the presence of God and of Nature, and which, for this reason, bear results and are lasting?
All the creations of Mozart are of this class; within them there is a generative force which
is transplanted from age to age, and is not likely soon to be exhausted or devoured."

[Footnote 122: For extended comment, see the Oxford History of Music, Vol. V, p. 246, seq.]

In studying Mozart's works the special points to be noticed are these: the wider sweep and
freer rhythmic variety of the melodic curve; the more organic fusion of the different portions
of a movement--Mozart's lines of demarcation being perfectly clear but not so rigid as in Haydn;
the much greater richness of the whole musical fabric, due to Mozart's marvellous skill in
polyphony. The time had not yet come when the composer could pique the fancy of the hearer
by unexpected structural devices or even lead him off on a false trail as was so often done
by Beethoven. Both Haydn and Mozart are homophonic composers, i.e., the outpouring of individual
melodies is the chief factor in their works; but whereas in Haydn the tune is almost invariably
in the upper voice, in Mozart we find the melody appearing in any one of the voices and often
accompanied with fascinating imitations. See, in corroboration, any of the first three movements
of the G minor Symphony or the slow movement of the E-flat major Symphony. In the structure
of music Mozart made slight changes; the forms were still fresh--having just been established
by Haydn--and Mozart with his genius filled them to overflowing. His one important contribution
to the development of instrumental form was the Pianoforte Concerto; but, as a consideration
of this would lead us too far afield, the student is referred to the life of Mozart in Grove's
Dictionary and to the Oxford History, Vol. V. The literature[123] about Mozart and his works
is voluminous. Our chief attention nevertheless should be centered on the works themselves
rather than on what anyone else writes about them. Certain of these criticisms, however, are
so suggestive and illuminating that the student should become familiar with them.

[Footnote 123: We recommend especially the refreshing essay by Philip Hale in Famous Composers
and Their Works; the chapter on Mozart in Beethoven and His Forerunners by D.G. Mason; and,
as throwing light on aspects of his personality which are little known, "Mozart Revealed in
his Own Words" by Kerst-Krehbiel (see especially the chapter on Mozart's religious nature,
p. 142 and passim); the fascinating Reminiscences of Michael Kelly, a personal friend of the
composer; and, above all, the monumental life of Mozart, unhappily as yet incomplete, by Wyzewa
and St. Foix. The third chapter of Vol. II of The Art of Music is also well worth reading;
and in Mozart's Operas, a Critical Study by E.J. Dent are found valuable comments on his dramatic
style, so prominent a feature in many of his instrumental works.]

As illustrations[124] for comment we select the F major Sonata for Pianoforte, the G minor
Symphony, the Magic Flute Overture for Orchestra and the little known but most characteristic
Adagio in B minor for Pianoforte. Here again, as in the case of Haydn, we must regret that
it is impracticable to give examples from the chamber music: the String Quartets, the Quintet
in G minor or from the entrancing Clarinet Quintet. Any familiarity with Mozart's genius is
very incomplete which does not comprise the C major Quartet, especially its heavenly Andante
Cantabile; likewise the E-flat major Quartet in the slow movement of which are the following
poignant dissonances--a striking anticipation of Tristan and Isolde.

[Music]

[Footnote 124: The first three compositions are not given in the Supplement, because readily
available in several standard editions. The same recommendations, as given in connection with
Haydn, apply to the performance of the G minor Symphony.]

The F major Sonata is selected to illustrate Mozart's pianoforte style because it bubbles over
with typical Mozartian melody and because the Sonata-form is the basis of all three movements;
in the first and last strictly employed and in the slow movement somewhat modified. The structure,
while just as clear and easy to follow as that of Haydn, represents an advance in the sustained
interest of the transitional passages and in the organic treatment of the Development--this
being particularly true of the Finale--the middle portion of the first movement being not so
significant. The Sonata, without prelude, begins with a soaring, lyric melody in which the
customary eight measure formation is expanded to twelve measures. This expansion is brought
about by an imitative treatment of the fifth measure and is a convincing example of the flexible
phraseology so prominent a feature in Mozart's style. A balancing sentence of eight measures,
with an extended cadence, brings us to the transition which is to introduce the second theme.
Observe the increasing animation of the rhythm and how the fresh entry of the second theme
(in C major) is enhanced by the insistence on the contrasting tonality of C minor. In measure
41 there begins the second theme, a graceful melody that is repeated with heightened fervour
and then expanded by means of various modulatory and rhythmic devices--the interest, for a
number of measures, being in the bass. In measure 71 we have a piquant closing theme which
ends in the "good old way" with some rather formal groups of cadential chords. The Development
is short and, save for the dynamic contrasts in the middle part, not of particular import.
But though a bit naïve it is neither labored nor dull. The Recapitulation with the necessary
adjustments of key (both themes appearing in F major) corresponds exactly to the Exposition.
In the opening melody of the Slow movement--a dreamy, sustained Adagio--we see the beautiful
use Mozart made of the "turn," e.g.,

[Music]

employing it not as meaningless embroidery or to cover up deficiencies in the instrument but
as an integral factor in the melodic line, thus anticipating Chopin and Wagner with his "essential
turn." The movement is in abridged[125] Sonata-form, i.e., there is a regular Exposition with
two themes in the tonic and dominant and a corresponding Recapitulation, but the Development
is entirely omitted and in its place we find merely two modulatory measures which take us back
to the third part. Such a form arose from the feeling that the Slow Movement should be one
of direct melodic and emotional appeal and should not concern itself with protracted discussion
of the material. The two closing measures are of a wondrous serenity, peculiar to Mozart. The
Finale, Allegro assai, in complete and elaborate Sonata-form, is one of superb vigor and dash,
the happiest example possible of Mozart's "joie de vivre." It begins with a brilliant running
theme in free phraseology, and then, after a cadence in measure 14, is at once followed by
an out and out Waltz tune of a very seductive swing.[126] This is developed to a brilliant
climax and then closes pp in a delicate, wistful manner. The transition, with some canonic
imitations and stimulating sequences, leads us to the second theme at measure 50. This--one
of Mozart's loveliest melodies--is rather exceptionally in the dominant minor (i.e., C minor)
and with its mood of pathetic revery affords a wonderful contrast to the headlong dash of the
first theme. This melody alone would prove that Mozart had his moments of deep emotion. In
measure 65 begins a long closing portion which resumes the exuberant mood characteristic of
the Exposition as a whole. The Development at first is based upon modulatory changes in the
first theme; and then, towards the middle, occurs a passage which seems to be a counterpart
of the second theme, save that it is in the major mode. We are now carried onward through a
series of passages, with pungent dissonances and imitative phrases, to a fortissimo dominant
chord; thence through a descending cadenza-like passage we are whirled back to the Recapitulation.
In material and treatment this corresponds exactly to the Exposition and has the same pianissimo
ending. Such an effect was a touch of genuine originality and was a delightful contrast to
the conventional flourish of trumpets with which the Finale of the period was expected to end.
Music is often most impressive when most subdued.

[Footnote 125: This modification became a favorite with Beethoven, notable examples being the
Slow movement of the Fifth Sonata, where the Development is represented by a single chord;
the Slow movement of the D minor Sonata, op. 31; and, above all, the Allegretto Scherzando
of the Eighth Symphony, where a series of contrasted accents keeps the interest alive and leads
most deftly to the Recapitulation.]

[Footnote 126: In measures 20 and 21 may be found some striking syncopations--an anticipation
of what now-a-days is known as "rag-time."]

The G minor Symphony is universally acknowledged to be the highest achievement of 18th century
instrumental music and is also premonitory of that subjective spirit peculiar to the 19th century.
It will remain immortal so long as human beings are capable of being touched by a sincere revelation
of emotion combined with a perfection of utterance which seems fairly Divine. This delicate
treatment and this exquisite finish are two prominent characteristics of Mozart's style. Truly
the Symphony is the quintessence of Mozart in terms of sound and rhythm, and we need but to
listen to his message and receive it with grateful appreciation. The work contains the four
customary movements, all of them (save the three-part Minuet and Trio) in complete Sonata-form.
The first movement begins at once with a gracefully poised theme sung by the violins, a theme
which may be likened in its outlines to the purity of a Greek statue. The entrancing effect
of this melody cannot be realized except on the orchestra, for it seems to float on the gently
pulsating chords of the violas like a beautiful flower. Everyone who hears the work is at once
arrested by this highly original treatment, e.g.

[Music]

The transition is short but leads us in a happy state of expectancy through a change of rhythm
from the graceful outlines of the first theme to the vigorous phrase

[Music]

and by a bold run, thrice repeated, to the entrance of the second theme in measure 43. This
theme, in the customary relative major (B-flat), illustrates Mozart's fondness for the chromatic
element which gives to many of his melodies such a haunting appeal. The closing portion, beginning
at measure 71, is an example of Mozart's spontaneous skill in polyphonic writing. It is based
entirely on the motive of the main theme in delightful imitations tossed about by different
sections of the orchestra. The second part is a genuine Development, since the musical life
never flags in its contrapuntal vitality; the theme appears in all parts of the texture--upper,
inner and lower voices--and we are carried vigorously onward by the daring modulations. Just
at the close of the Development we see Mozart's constructive skill in the fusion of this part
with the subsequent Recapitulation. A series of drifting chromatic chords in the flutes and
oboes, like light fleecy clouds, keeps us in a state of suspended wonder when quietly there
emerges the first theme and the return home has begun. It is one of the truly poetic touches
in musical literature and has been often imitated--especially by Tchaikowsky in his Fifth and
Sixth Symphonies.[127] The Recapitulation corresponds exactly with the Exposition, but an added
pathos is given to the second theme by its appearance in the tonic key of G minor. Observe
the impassioned intensity of the climax in measures 13-19 (counting back from the end). The
mood of dreamy contemplation with which the Slow Movement begins cannot be translated into
words; why attempt it? We have the music which, coming from the divinely gifted imagination
of the composer, reveals in its own language a message of pathetic longing and ideal aspiration.
The movement is very concise but in complete Sonata-form, and with an orchestration felicitous
in the treatment of the horns and the wood-wind instruments. The Minuet, noteworthy for the
three-measure rhythm of the opening phrase,

[Music]

shows clearly the new life which Mozart infused into the old form by his remarkable polyphonic
skill. Note at the outset of the second part the vigorous effect of the theme in the bass and
the frequency of biting dissonances. The charming grace and simplicity of the Trio are indescribable;
here again we find an eloquent use of the wood-wind group. The Finale, in complete Sonata-form,
begins with a perfectly balanced periodic theme, presented in Two-part form, i.e., two sentences
of eight measures, each repeated. If from our present standpoint we feel that the tone of this
movement is a bit light to follow the serious thoughts of the preceding movements, let us remember
that it was composed when the Finale was meant merely to "top off" a work; and that, if it
radiated a general atmosphere of sunshine and satisfaction, its purpose was fulfilled. For
the Finale, which, like the glorious splendor of an autumn day, is the crowning objective towards
which the other movements have been striving, we must wait for Beethoven and his modern successors.
In fact we may express the general trend of a Haydn or a Mozart Symphony by a decrescendo,
thus [decrescendo symbol] i.e., the real genius of the composer is shown in the first three
movements; whereas, beginning with Beethoven, we find an organic climactic effect[128] from
the first movement to the last, thus [crescendo symbol]. But to carry such criticisms too far
is ungracious and unjust. Mozart's themes, both the first and the second (beginning in measure
55), with their tripping contredance rhythms, fill our hearts with life and carry us irresistibly
onward. And the Development has some surprises in store, for now the dramatic genius of Mozart
asserts itself. Note the bold leaps and daring modulations of the opening measures. Nothing
trite or formal here! The strong polyphonic treatment of the first theme, beginning in measure
120 and sustained with unflagging energy for seventy measures, makes this one of the most stimulating
developments in symphonic literature, not excepting Beethoven himself. The Recapitulation,
in subject matter, is an exact duplication of the Exposition and allows us to recover gradually
from our excitement and to return to the ordinary world of men and events. The presentation
of the second theme, however, shows Mozart's mastery of melodic variation. The substance is
the same, but the import of the melody is intensified, e.g.

[Music: Exposition]

[Music: Recapitulation]

[Footnote 127: See the Waltz movement of the Fifth Symphony and the second movement of the Sixth.]

[Footnote 128: This expanding of interest is distinctly felt in Beethoven's Fifth Symphony,
in Brahms's First, in Tchaikowsky's Fifth and in that by César Franck.]

The Overtures to Mozart's three operas: The Marriage of Figaro, Don Giovanni and the Magic
Flute are of particular interest, not only for the beauty of their contents but because they
are our earliest examples of the Overture fashioned in complete Sonata form. Originally the
Overture had been a prelude to the opening of a play, a prelude of the lightest and most meagre
nature. Examples, beginning with Monteverde, abound in all the early Italian opera composers.[129]
Lully of the French school and Alessandro Scarlatti of the Italian were the first to amplify
these beginnings and to establish a definite standard of structure. In both schools this standard
represented an application of the Three-part form principle; the French arranging their contrasts,
slow, fast, slow (the so-called French overture--of which we have an example in Handel's Messiah)
and the Italians, fast, slow, fast (the so-called Italian Overture). Although Gluck (1714-1787)
did much to establish a more dramatic connection between the overture and the play, even the
best of his Overtures, Iphigenia in Aulis, is a rather loosely expanded tripartite structure
with a good many meaningless passages. But Mozart, coming after Haydn's definite establishment
of the Sonata-form and with the growing interest of the public in instrumental music for its
own sake as an incentive, could take advantage of these circumstances to display his genius
and to delight his hearers with a piece of genuine music. This he did and his operatic overtures
are of such distinct import and self-sufficiency that they are often detached from the opera
itself and played as concert numbers. The Magic Flute Overture is also noteworthy because of
the polyphonic treatment of the first theme which is a definite fugal presentation in four
voices. The second theme, beginning in measure 64, and soon repeated, is light and winning,
meant to supplement rather than to contrast strongly with the first theme, which indeed keeps
up at the same time, in the inner voices, its rhythmic impetuosity. The Exposition ends with
a graceful closing phrase, e.g.,

[Music]

and the usual cadence in the dominant key. It is considered that the Adagio chords for the
trombones, interpolated between the Exposition and the Development, are suggestive of the religious
element in the play that is to follow. The Development is remarkable for the spirited imitative
treatment of the first theme, for the bold way in which the voices cut into each other and
for the fusion of its closing measures with the Recapitulation. The chief feature in this brilliant
passage is a piling up of the theme in stretto form (see measures 148-153). The Recapitulation
is somewhat shortened and the melodic outline of the second theme is slightly changed; otherwise
it corresponds with the Exposition. After the closing phrase we have some pungent dissonances, e.g.

[Music]

Rossini, it is said, was never tired of eulogizing this Overture and certainly for spontaneity
and vigor it is unrivalled.[130]

[Footnote 129: For a complete account of this development see Grove's Dict. Vol. III under
Overture and the Oxford History, Vol. IV, page 286, seq.]

[Footnote 130: Its companion in modern literature is the Overture to the Bartered Bride (by
the Bohemian composer Smetana), which also begins with a brilliant fugal treatment of the theme.]

The last illustration from Mozart is his Adagio in B minor (see Supplement No. 43) an independent
piece, far too little known, in complete Sonata-form. The haunting pathos in the theme, the
exquisite loveliness in the whole fabric instantly reach the hearer's heart. Analytical comment
seems quite unnecessary; a child can "follow" the music, but only he with a ripe knowledge
of human life can begin to fathom its deep mystery.[131] When we see such modern passages as
the following, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 131: For some illuminating comments on this subtle character of Mozart's creations
see the Stanford-Forsyth History of Music, p. 254.]

Tchaikowsky's love for Mozart's music is readily understood. Indeed, we cannot refrain from
urging everyone to cultivate such a love himself; for in the works of Mozart are found a purity,
a sanity and a delight in creation which keep them alive and make them in very truth "things
of beauty and a joy forever."

CHAPTER XI

BEETHOVEN, THE TONE-POET

As Beethoven was such an intensely subjective composer, a knowledge of his personality and
environment is indispensable for a complete appreciation of his works.[132]

[Footnote 132: Hence is given a more extended biographical account than in the case of former
composers.]

Beethoven, Ludwig van (1770-1827), born at Bonn on the Rhine, though his active career is associated
with Vienna, may be called the first thinker in music; for at last the art is brought into
correlation with man's other powers and becomes a living reflex of the tendencies and activities
of the period. Notwithstanding the prodigious vitality of Bach's work, we feel that his musical
sense operated abstractly like a law of Nature and that he was an unconscious embodiment, as
it were, of the deep religious sentiment of his time and of the sturdy independence of his
race. At any period and in any place Bach would have been Bach. Beethoven's music, however,
in its intense personality and as a vivid expression of the ideals of his fellow men, was different
from any the world had heard before. There were three paramount advantages in his equipment:
first, Beethoven was a strong character who only happened to find in music his most suitable
means of self-expression. The full import of his works cannot be understood unless he is recognized,
great creative artist that he was, as first and foremost a unique personality. Had he not written
a note of music we should have sufficient historical evidence to assure ourselves of the vigor
of his intellect and the elevation of his ideals. Whereas Haydn and Mozart are to be judged
purely as musicians, in Beethoven it is always something underlying the musical symbols which
claims our allegiance. Furthermore he had the inestimable advantage of finding the mechanical
structure of instrumental music carefully formulated by his predecessors. The stone had been
quarried, the rough cutting done and the blocks lay ready for a genius to use in the erection
of his own poetically conceived edifice. And these forms were still fresh and vigorous; they
had not yet hardened into formalism. In Beethoven's works we rarely find form employed for
its own sake, as a mere "tour de force" of skilful workmanship, rather is it made to adapt
itself to the individual needs of the composer. Finally Beethoven's career coincided with momentous
changes and upheavals in the social, political and artistic world. He is the embodiment of
that spirit of individualism, of human freedom and self-respect which found its expression
in the French Revolution, in our American War of Independence and in the entire alteration
of social standards. Beethoven at all costs resolved to be himself. With him music ceases to
be a mere "concourse of sweet sounds"; it must always bring some message to the brooding human
soul, and be something more than a skilful example of abstract ingenuity. These personal tendencies
of Beethoven were fostered by the spirit of the times, and his music became in turn a vital
expression of revolt against existing conditions and of passionate aspiration towards something
better. He was the first musician to free himself from the enervating influence of having to
write exclusively for aristocratic patronage. Such was the social emancipation of the period
that he could address himself at first hand to a musical public eagerly receptive and constantly
growing. His representative works could never have been composed in the time of Haydn and Mozart;
for though in formal structure the logical development of preceding methods--Beethoven being
no reckless iconoclast--in individual content they reveal a freedom of utterance which took
its rise in tendencies hitherto unknown. Beethoven's mighty personality and far-reaching influence
can not be stated in a few formulae. An extensive library covering his life and times is accessible
to the interested layman, and a thorough appreciation of his masterpieces is a spiritual possession
which everyone must gain individually. Since Beethoven's works compel a man to think for himself,
the constructive power of the creator must be met with an analogous activity on the part of
the receptive hearer. The symphonies, for example, are more than cunningly contrived works
of musical art; they are human documents of undying power to quicken and exalt the soul which
will submit itself to their influence. Beethoven's great instrumental compositions are few
in number in comparison with the voluminous and uneven output of his predecessors. Thus from
Haydn we have 125 symphonies, from Mozart about 40, from Beethoven 9. Of Haydn's symphonies
possibly a half dozen have permanent vitality; of Mozart's four; of Beethoven's all, with the
possible exception of the experimental first. Condensation of subject matter, conciseness of
style, a ceaseless exaltation of quality above quantity are the prominent features in Beethoven's
work. All adipose tissue is relentlessly excised, and the finished creation resembles a human
being in perfect physical condition--the outward mechanical organism subservient to the spirit
within.

Beethoven's life is of supreme interest and importance, for his music is the direct expression
of himself, of his joys and sorrows. His ancestry raises many perplexing questions as to the
influence of heredity and the sources of genius. In the first place Beethoven was not a pure-blooded
German, but partly Flemish on his father's side. His paternal grandfather, Ludwig van[133]
Beethoven, was a man of strong character and of a certain musical aptitude, who had migrated
from the neighborhood of Antwerp to Bonn where he served as court musician to the Elector of
Cologne. The paternal grandmother early developed a passion for drink and ended her days confined
in a convent. The son of this couple, Johann (the father of the composer) was a tenor singer
in the court chapel at Bonn and soon became a confirmed drunkard. He seems to be a mere intermediary
between grandfather and grandson. In 1767 he married a young widow, Maria Keverich, a woman
of warm affections and depth of sentiment, whose life was bound up in the care of her gifted
son. The tender love between Beethoven and his mother was a bright spot in his early years,
in many ways so sordid and unhappy. Unfortunately she was delicate, of consumptive tendencies,
and died when Ludwig was but seventeen. "She has been to me a good and loving mother," he writes,
"and my best friend." As we ponder on such facts and then consider for what Beethoven stands,
we can only exclaim, "God works in a mysterious way, his wonders to perform." It was early
seen that the young Beethoven had unusual ability, and so the shiftless father, with the example
of Mozart's precocity before him, submitted the boy to a deal of enforced drudgery in the way
of harpsichord and violin practice. He had one good teacher however, Neefe, who records that
the boy of thirteen played the harpsichord with energetic skill and had mastered the Preludes
and Fugues of the Well-Tempered Clavichord. Beethoven's general education was sadly neglected,
and when he was thirteen practically ceased. These deficiencies were a source of mortification
all his life. He spelled atrociously, was never sure of his addition and subtraction and so
was often involved in altercations with landlords and washerwomen. By nature Beethoven was
of strong, eager intellect. He became an omnivorous reader, and later in life acquired a working
facility in Latin, French, Italian and English. The first period of his life ends with his
departure in 1792 for Vienna, whither he was sent by the Elector to study with Haydn. In summing
up its special incidents we are struck first by the vivid and lasting impression which Beethoven,
in spite of his lowly origin and deficiencies in education and cultivation, made upon wealthy
and refined people of distinction, simply through his extraordinary personality and unmistakable
sincerity. Two of these friends were the von Breuning family, including the charming daughter
Eleanore--one of Beethoven's early loves--and the cultivated and influential Count Waldstein,
in whose companionship he became acquainted with the German poets and with the dramas of Shakespeare.
For a vivid picture of these boyish years the student is recommended to the Romance, Jean Christophe
(by Romain Rolland) which, though somewhat idealized, is mainly on a historical basis. Two
of Beethoven's most unique characteristics date from this period. First, his constant habit
of drawing inspiration directly from Nature, of which he was a passionate and persistent lover.
He says of himself "No one can love the country as I love it. Here alone can I learn wisdom.
Every tree exclaims to me 'Holy, Holy, Holy.'" In long walks through wood and field he would
allow his thoughts to germinate, giving himself up utterly to creative emotion. When in this
state of mind Madame von Breuning used to say that he was in his "raptus." Consequently, in
comparison with the works of previous composers, which often have a note of primness and artificial
restraint--they smell a bit of the lamp and the study--those of Beethoven have the elemental
power of Nature herself, especially shown in the vigor and variety of the rhythm. Second, he
would always carry sketch books in which to jot down ideas as they came to him. These he would
polish and improve--sometimes for years--before they took final shape. Many of these sketch
books[134] have been preserved and edited, and they illustrate, most vividly, Beethoven's method
of composing: slow, cautious, but invincible in its final effect; an idea frequently being
altered as many as twenty times. At the age of twenty-two he was chiefly known as a pianist
with wonderful facility in improvisation; his compositions had been insignificant. The next
eight years--up to 1800, when Beethoven was thirty--were spent in acquainting himself with
the Viennese aristocracy and in building up a public clientèle. Then follows the marvellous
period until 1815 in which his power of inspiration was at its height, and which gave to the
world a body of work for magnitude and variety never surpassed: all the symphonies except the
Ninth, the first twenty-seven pianoforte Sonatas, five concertos for pianoforte and orchestra,
the opera of Fidelio, several Overtures, numerous string quartets and ensemble chamber music.
We realize even more vividly the heroic and sublime character of Beethoven when we learn that,
as early as 1798, there began the signs of that deafness which altered his whole life. By nature
he was hypersensitive, proud and high-strung, and these qualities were so aggravated by his
malady that he became suspicious, at times morose, and his subsequent career was checkered
with the violent altercations, and equally spasmodic renewals of friendship, which took place
between him and his best friends. His courage was extraordinary. Thus we find him writing:
"Though at times I shall be the most miserable of God's creatures, I will grapple with Fate,
it shall never pull me down." On the artistic side this affliction had its compensations in
that it isolated the composer from outer distractions, and allowed him to lay entire stress
on the spiritual inner side of his art; certainly this is one of the strongest notes in his
music--the pure fancy manifested therein. As a deaf musician he is comparable to the blind
seer who penetrates more deeply into the mysteries of life than those whose physical eyesight
is perfect. Beethoven's closing years form a period of manifold complications, caused by the
care of his scapegrace nephew, by his settled deafness and precarious financial position. Yet
he grimly continued to compose, his last works being of titanic dimensions such as the Choral
symphony, the Mass in D and the last Quartets and Pianoforte Sonatas. Beethoven died on March
26, 1827; nature most appropriately giving a dramatic setting to the event by a terrific storm
of hail and snow, lightning and thunder. It would take too long to dwell on the many characteristics
of the man Beethoven. Power, individuality and sincerity were stamped upon him, and his music
is just what we should expect from his nature. He embodied all the longings, the joys and sorrows
of humanity, and gave them such burning utterance that the world has listened ever since.

[Footnote 133: The prefix van is not a symbol of nobility.]

[Footnote 134: See the two Beethoveniana by Nottebohm.]

To touch now upon a few of the formal aspects of Beethoven's work, as far as verbal analysis
can help, it may be asserted that he is the acknowledged master of the Sonata Form as Bach
was of the Fugue, and in his hands this form, and also the Air with Variations, were raised
to a potency the influence of which is felt even to-day. From beginning to end every portion
of the Sonata Form was made over and vitalized. Instead of the perfunctory "flourish of trumpets"
which served previous composers for an introduction, this portion with Beethoven deftly leads
on the hearer to a contemplation of the main work, and is as carefully planned as the porch
of a great Cathedral. For examples, witness the continually growing excitement generated in
the introductions to the Second and Seventh Symphonies, the breathless suspense of the introduction
to the Fourth, and the primeval, mysterious beginning of the Ninth. And then what a difference
in the character and emotional suggestiveness of the themes, that with Beethoven are actual
human voices, dramatic characters, which once met can never be forgotten. As Lavoix says of
the Fifth Symphony, "Is not this a drama in its purity, where passion is no longer the attribute
of a theatrical work, but the expression of our own individual feelings?" No longer are the
transitions mere mechanical connections, but a portion of the structure which, though subsidiary,
is yet organically developed from that which precedes and inevitably related to that which
follows. In the development section we find the real Beethoven. Here his marvellous freshness
of invention found full play. Such inexhaustible fancy, such coherence of structure, such subtlety
of transformation were unknown in former times, when development was often as lifeless as the
perfunctory motions of an automaton. Beethoven's developments are no mere juggling with tones;
they are vast tonal edifices, examples of what the imagination of man controlled by intellect
can achieve. Possibly Beethoven's greatest skill as a musical architect was shown in his treatment
of the Coda, which became the crowning climax of a movement, a last driving home with all possible
eloquence of the message heretofore presented. The end of previous compositions had too often
been a mere ceasing to go, a running down, but in Beethoven there is usually a strong objective
point towards which everything converges.

Fully conscious as he was of the throbbing human message it was his mission to reveal, we may
be sure that Beethoven spared no effort to enhance the expressive capabilities of music as
a language. Certain aspects of his style in this respect are strikingly noticeable in every
one of his representative works. First, the marvellous rhythmic vitality. Note the absence
of the former sing-song rhythm of Haydn; in its stead we hear the heart-beat, now fast, now
slow, of a living human being. No longer can the hearer in dreamy apathy beat time with his
foot. Second, his use of the fiercest dissonances to express the heights and depths of our
stormy human existence. In listening to contemporary works nothing should persuade us more
strongly to a sympathetic tolerance, or at any rate to a suspension of judgment, than the fact
that many of Beethoven's most individual cries (surely in his case the outward expression of
what he heard within, those very outbursts which to-day ring longest in our consciousness)
were considered at the time of their creation as the ravings of a mad-man. Dissonances, both
acoustically and psychologically, are a vital principle in music. In no respect was his music
more original than in his Promethean boldness in their use. One of his favorite conceptions
was that music should strike fire from the soul of man; it was not meant to lull the hearer
into a drowsy revery, but to awaken his spiritual consciousness with a shock at times positively
galvanic. A third feature is his subtlety in expression, as is shown by the minute indications
in which every page of his work abounds. The crescendos, often leading to a sudden drop to
pianissimo, the long stretches of hushed suspense, the violent sforzandos on unimportant beats,
the plasticity of periodic formation, all these workings of a rich imagination first gave music
its place as the supreme art of human expression.

A word must be spoken concerning two forms which we owe to Beethoven's constructive genius.
In place of the former naïve Minuet, so characteristic of the formal manners of its time, he
substituted a movement with a characteristic name--the Scherzo, which opened up entirely new
possibilities. No mere literary distinction between wit and humor[135] can explain the power
of Beethoven's Scherzos; only through his own experience of life can the hearer fathom their
secrets. The expression of real humor, akin to that spirit which is found in Cervantes, Swift,
Mark Twain and Abraham Lincoln, was a genuine contribution of Beethoven. Deep thinkers alone
are capable of humor which, to quote a recent writer, is "that faculty of imagination so humane
and sympathetic in its nature that it can perceive at the same time serious and jocose things.
It can feel the pathos of a scene on life's stage and yet have an eye for the incongruities
of the actors. It is imagination, the feel of kinship with the universal human soul." Beethoven's
Scherzos are as varied as life itself. Who can forget the boisterous vitality of this movement
in the Eroica, which quite sweeps us off our feet, the haunting mystery of the Scherzo of the
Fifth Symphony, or listen unmoved to the grim seriousness, alternating with touching pathos,
in the Scherzo of the Ninth? Secondly, his conception of the Air and Variations was so different
from anything previously known that he may fairly be called its creator. With him variations
became poetic transformations, and the notable works in this form of Brahms, Tchaikowsky, Franck
and d'Indy are only freer manifestations of Beethoven's method. Upon two last features, his
use of titles and his individualizing of the orchestral instruments, we cannot dwell in detail.
Although program music in its literal sense dates back several centuries, Beethoven--far more
than was customary before--used external suggestions or incidents, often intimate subjective
experiences, as the quickening impulse to his imagination. We know from his own words that,
while composing, he generally had some mental picture before him. Very often we are not given
the clue to his thoughts, but the titles, familiar to every one, which he did use, such as
the Heroic and Pastoral Symphonies, the Coriolanus and Egmont Overtures, those to several of
the Sonatas, are full of import and show clearly that he was engaged in no mere abstract music
making for its own sake. These works are the point of departure for the significant development
of modern music along this path. With Beethoven the orchestra began to assume its present importance,
and the instruments are no longer treated as mere producers of sound and rhythm, but often
as living beings. How eloquent is the message of the Horns in the Trio to the Scherzo of the
Heroic! Berlioz compares the double basses in the Fifth Symphony to the gambols of sportive
elephants, and instances might be multiplied. But words are futile in describing the wonders
of Beethoven. A striking tribute is that of Professor John K. Paine. "In instrumental music
Beethoven is pre-eminent, from all points of view, formally, aesthetically and spiritually.
Like Shakespeare's, his creations are distinguished by great diversity of character; each is
a type by itself. Beethoven is the least of a mannerist of all composers. His compositions
are genuine poems, which tell their meaning to the true listener clearly and unmistakably in
the language of tones, a language however which cannot be translated into mere words."

[Footnote 135: The derivation of the word is worthy of note; it means moisture, juice, something
not dry. Humor is certainly the juice of human nature.]

We are now in a position to approach intelligently, enthusiastically and reverently the mighty
works of Beethoven which, though built upon the foundations of Haydn and Mozart, yet take us
into an entirely new world of power and fancy. For illustrations we select the first movement
of the Third or Heroic Symphony; the Seventh Sonata in D major for Pianoforte; the Fifth Symphony
in C minor (entire) and the Coriolanus Overture. In regard to the symphonies it is understood
that the emphasis on certain ones and the omission of others implies no ultra-critical attitude.
Each of Beethoven's symphonies has its characteristic attributes and each is the work of a
genius. But just as in Nature some mountains are more majestic than others, so concerning the
nine symphonies we may say that their order of excellence as endorsed by the consensus of mankind
would be as follows. The First Symphony is somewhat experimental, composed when Beethoven was
working out his technique of expression. It is closely modeled on the style of Haydn and, though
showing certain daring touches and though perfectly direct and sincere, is not of marked individuality.
In the Second Symphony a long advance is made, for we find numerous traits which are thoroughly
distinctive of the genius of Beethoven: the exciting Prelude to the first movement; the heavenly
Larghetto, one of the first slow movements of real emotional power; the rollicking Scherzo
(note the fantastic touches in the Trio) and the splendor of the last pages of the Finale,
which can only be compared to a sunset with its slowly fading colors and its last burst of
glory. The general style of the Second Symphony however is that of Haydn and Mozart, though
raised to the highest pitch of eloquence. In the Third Symphony the complete Beethoven steps
forth. It was his declaration of independence, and in this work, as he himself said, he began
a completely new line of activity; it was also his own favorite among the symphonies.[136]
Heretofore there had been no such impassioned utterance as is revealed in the first movement
of this Third Symphony and there have been few, if any, to equal it since. The Fourth Symphony
is an entrancing work and shows Beethoven's inexhaustible variety of mood; since, save for
the "grand manner" peculiar to all his works, it differs strikingly from the Third and the
Fifth. It was composed during the happiest period of Beethoven's life and is related in its
whole character to his emotions and aspirations at that time.[137] The slow movement is the
most sublime love-song in music. The Fifth Symphony is undoubtedly the most popular of them
all, in the true sense of the term.[138] The reason for this verdict is the unparalleled combination
in a single work of the emotional intensity found in the first movement, the touching appeal
of the slow movement, the mystery, followed by the reckless display of spirit, in the Scherzo
and the paean of rejoicing which rings through the Finale. The Sixth or Pastoral, Beethoven's
one excursion into the realm of tone-painting based on natural phenomena, is of interest more
as a point of departure for the work of his successors than for its intrinsic message. The
conception of the possibilities of musical description has so widened since Beethoven, and
the facilities for orchestral color so increased, that this symphony, though it has many characteristic
beauties, sounds a bit old-fashioned. The Seventh is one of the most original of them all,
incomparable for its rhythmic vitality--the Apotheosis of the Dance, as Wagner called it.[139]
If rhythm be the basis of music and of life itself, this symphony is thoroughly alive from
start to finish, hence immortal. The Eighth is the embodiment of Beethoven's (possibly) most
individual trait--his abounding humor. Never before had symphonic music played such pranks
as are found here, especially in the Finale. The Symphony is in fact a prolonged Scherzo[140]--the
third movement (a Minuetto) being merely for contrast. The Ninth Symphony, composed in the
philosophic period of Beethoven's life, when he was attempting still greater heights, is a
vast work, the first three movements purely instrumental, and the Finale, for the first time
in symphonic literature, a union of solo voices and chorus with the instrumental forces. The
text was taken from Schiller's "Ode to Joy." The spirit of the poem made a strong appeal to
Beethoven's humanitarian and democratic aspirations and there is no question of the grandeur
of his conception. But it is not carping criticism to say that his thoughts were too heaven-soaring
for a perfect realization through any earthly means. Beethoven moreover was seldom happy in
writing for the human voice--he thought in terms of the instruments--and it is not to be denied
that there are several passages in the Finale which consist of mere boisterous shouting. No
one save believers in plenary inspiration can give to this Finale the whole-hearted admiration
that is paid to the three instrumental movements which are pure gold; especially the seraphic
Adagio and the Gargantuan Scherzo with its demoniacal rhythmic energy. To sum up the foregoing
estimates, if the student is forced to select and cannot become equally familiar with all of
the nine symphonies, a reasonable order of study would be the following: the Fifth, the Third,
the Seventh, the Eighth, the Fourth, the Ninth, the Second, the Sixth and the First. See Supplement
No. 44.

[Footnote 136: See Beethoven, Kerst-Krehbiel, p. 45.]

[Footnote 137: Read the appropriate essay in Beethoven and His Nine Symphonies by Sir George
Grove.]

[Footnote 138: Vox populi, vox Dei.]

[Footnote 139: D'Indy, however, in his Beethoven (p. 61, English translation) dissents from
this view; not at all convincingly, it would seem to us. For the basic rhythm of each movement
is on a definite dance metre and the theme of the first movement is a regular Irish jig (Beethoven
at one time being very much interested in Irish folk-dances) with its typical three final notes,
e.g.

[Music]]

[Footnote 140: It was written, to use Beethoven's own words, in an "aufgeknöpft" (unbuttoned)
condition, i.e., free, untramelled, rather than straight-laced, swaddled in conventions.]

We shall now make a few comments[141] on the first movement of the Third or Heroic Symphony,
merely to stimulate the hearer's interest, for the music may be trusted to make its own direct
appeal. After two short, sonorous chords, which summon us to attention, the first theme, allegro
con brio, with its elemental, swinging rhythm, is announced by the 'cellos. It is often glibly
asserted that these notes of the tonic triad are the whole of the first theme. This is a great
misconception, for although the motive in the first four measures is the generative basis for
the entire movement, the arresting, dramatic note of the theme is the C-sharp in measure five.
This theme in fact is a typical example of Beethoven's broad sweeps of thought; for prolonged
with secondary melodic phrases in the first violins and flutes, its real close does not come
until the 13th measure, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 141: These are based in this work and in all Symphonic compositions on the full orchestral
score (in the Peters edition); the student is therefore recommended to adopt this practise.
For in Beethoven and all orchestral writers the thought and expression are so integrally bound
up with the tone color and idiom of the various instruments that when their works are reduced
to another medium much of the eloquence is lost. For those who cannot handle an orchestral
score there are adequate arrangements for 2 hands, 4 hands and for 2 pianofortes in several
standard editions. Those who have an advanced pianoforte technique should certainly become
familiar with the virtuoso-transcriptions of the Beethoven Symphonies by Franz Liszt.]

After a varied repetition of the first motive of the theme, there occurs a passage (measures
23-33)[142] which illustrates one of the most characteristic features in all Beethoven's work,
i.e., those sharp dislocations of the rhythm, indicated by the sforzando accents (sf) on beats
usually unaccented and often coupled with strong dissonances. Although the basic rhythm is
triple, the beats for several measures are in groups of two quarter notes or their equivalent,
one half note, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 142: It is an excellent practise to number the measures of a score in groups of 10.]

No longer can we drift along in dreamy apathy; our vitality is quickened as by the gusts of
a tornado. There have been those who for the first time in their lives were jarred from the
even tenor of their way by these impassioned onslaughts. When Beethoven's Symphonies were first
played in Paris, it is reported that the operatic composer Boieldieu was much disconcerted,
because, as he said, he liked "musique qui me berce." The transition (measures 43-81) is a
remarkable example of Beethoven's power of creating ever more and more excitement and expectancy.
It contains three subsidiary melodic phrases, each of increasing rhythmic animation, e.g.,

[Music]

and fairly whirls us into the beautiful contemplative theme at measure 81. This theme embodies
some entrancing modulations into remote keys, and then, after one of Beethoven's typical passages
of hushed pianissimo (beginning in measure 97) we are led through a series of sforzandos, crescendos
and titanic ejaculations to the overpowering dissonances in measure 145, which with the tonic
chord close the Exposition in the dominant key. The Development (measures 164-396) is extremely
long and varied, but a perfect manifestation of spontaneous, organic treatment--each portion
growing inevitably from what has preceded and marching irresistibly onward to its objective
goal. Every modulatory, rhythmic and polyphonic device is employed to vary and intensify the
message; yet, notwithstanding the diversity of the material, we are held spellbound by the
directness and coherence of the thought. Such is Beethoven's passionate insistence on the right
to speak out just what he felt that in one stupendous passage (measures 246-277) it seems as
if the very Heavens were falling about our heads. At measure 282 a theme of ideal repose is
interpolated--just the contrast needed after the preceding cataclysm. The Development proper
is renewed in measure 298 and after a repetition of the interpolated theme in measures 320-335
the rhythm of the first theme asserts itself in all its majesty, carrying us upward to a veritable
table-land of sublimity. From this we are brought down through a series of decrescendo, modulatory
chords, like drifting mists, to an almost complete cessation of musical life--nothing but a
pianissimo tremolo on the strings. From this hush there floats in upon us the rhythmic motive
of the first theme; then, with a ff chord of the dominant, we are suddenly brought back into
the sunshine of the main theme, and the Recapitulation has begun. This portion with certain
happy changes in modulation--note the beautiful variant on the horn in measures 406-414, e.g.,

[Music]

--preserves the customary emphasis on the main tonality of E-flat major, ending in measures
549-550 with the same dissonances which closed the Exposition. Then are declaimed by the full
orchestra those two dramatic outbursts which usher in the Coda and which may be likened to
"Stop! Listen! the best is yet to come." The blunt, intentional disjunction of the harmony
adds weight to the assertion, e.g.

[Music]

Here we have a convincing illustration of Beethoven's individual conception that the Coda should
be a second and final development; special points of interest and treatment being held in store,
so that it becomes a truly crowning piece of eloquence. Observe how the reappearance of the
interpolated theme balances the Coda with the Development proper and how the various rhythms
of the Exposition are concentrated in the last page. Finally a series of bold, vibrato leaps
in the first violins--based on the dominant chord--brings this impassioned movement to a close.

A lack of space prevents the inclusion in the Supplement of the rest of the Symphony, but the
student is urged to make himself familiar with the three remaining movements: the Marcia Funèbre,
the Scherzo and the Finale. The Funeral March is justly ranked with that of Chopin in his B-flat
minor Sonata and that of Wagner in the last act of the Götterdämmerung as one of the most eloquent
in existence, and contains melodies so touching that they could have come only from the very
soul of Beethoven. Especially noteworthy is the aspiring melody of the middle, contrasting
portion (Maggiore) where the spirit, freed from earthly dross, seems to mount to the skies
in a chariot of fire. The third part, where the minor mode is resumed, abounds in dramatic
touches; especially that fugal passage, where the ecclesiastical tone, combined with pealing
trumpets, brings before us some funeral pageant in a vast, medieval cathedral. The Coda, beginning
in A-flat major, with an impressive mood of resignation, illustrates at its close a psychological
use of programmistic effect; for the first theme, treated as a real person, disintegrates before
our very eyes--becoming, as it were, a disembodied spirit. Nothing can show more clearly than
this passage the widening of the expressive powers of music which we owe to the genius of Beethoven.
The same effect with a slightly different dramatic purpose is found at the end of the Coriolanus
Overture.

The Scherzo, allegro vivace, in triple time, but marked one beat a measure = 116 (almost two
measures per second!), is unsurpassed for sustained brilliancy and daring rhythmic changes.
It is so idiomatically conceived for orchestra that only the barest idea can be gained from
a pianoforte transcription. The prevailing background is a mass of shimmering strings, marked
by Beethoven "sempre pp e staccato" and against this stands out a buoyant, folk-song type of
melody on the oboe. After some mysterious and fantastic modulations a ff climax is reached
which leads to the famous syncopated passage where the orchestra seems to hurl itself headlong
into space, e.g.

[Music]

The Trio, with its three hunting horns, gives a fresh, woodland note typifying Beethoven's
love of nature. Some mysterious modulations lead us back from the dim recesses of the forest
to the sparkling animation of the Scherzo. In this part of the movement Beethoven plays one
of his characteristic practical jokes; for, just where we expect the same syncopated effect
as before, the time is changed from 3/4 to 2/2, the duration of the measure remaining the same,
e.g.

[Music]

This effect may be likened to the uproarious guffaws of a giant. The Coda has a clear reminiscence
of the dramatic C-sharp in the main theme of the first movement, e.g.

[Music][143]

[Footnote 143: D-flat being the enharmonic equivalent of C-sharp. ]

Such an organic connection between movements begins to be very frequent in Beethoven's works.

The Finale, Allegro molto, has caused considerable difficulty to the commentators for reasons
known only to themselves. Different forms are assigned to it by different critics; one regrets
the falling off of inspiration, another asserts that the movement "does not fulfill the requirements
which the human mind makes of art; it leaves us confused." Poor Beethoven! But why all this
pother? If the inner evidence of the music itself be any justification for structural classification,
this wonderful, inspired Finale is a series of free Variations[144] on a double theme of which
the parts are related to each other as Soprano and Bass, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 144: The variations are not numbered and the demarcations indicated only by certain
cadential objective points.]

By beginning the first two variations with the less important of the two melodies (i.e., the
bass) Beethoven is simply indulging in his fondness for piquing the fancy of the hearer by
starting him on a false trail--not giving away, as it were, his real purpose too soon. Yet
from the first announcement of the leading melody in the Third Variation it assumes increasing
importance, through successive appearances in E-flat major, B minor, D major and C major, until
after a long fugal development we reach the inspired passage (Poco Andante con espressione), e.g.,

[Music]

in which the main theme is stated first in its noble simplicity and then enhanced by an obligato
melody on the oboe. It is one of the most eloquent passages in all symphonic literature. At
its last appearance the real theme comes fully to its own--for the first time in the bass,
that fundamental voice--where it is declaimed ff in gorgeous splendor by all the lower instruments
of the orchestra. It is evident that not even the most inspired genius can sustain such a flight
for ever, and after this magnificent paean the workings of Beethoven's imagination resemble
those of Nature herself. Following a tranquil intermediary passage in A-flat major we enter
upon one of those long, mysterious periods of hushed suspense which may be compared to a long
expanse of open country or to the fading lights on the sea at sunset. The last page, beginning
with the Presto, is sheer orchestral jubilation of the most intoxicating kind. We may picture
an enthusiastic gathering, with hats thrown aloft and shouts of triumph ringing from every
throat. It is of historical interest to know that the theme of this Finale must have been a
favorite with Beethoven, for he had used it in three former works: a Contre-dance, as the basis
for a set of Pianoforte Variations and in the Ballet Music to Prometheus. It may not be too
fanciful to trace a dramatic relationship between its use in portraying the daring spirit who
first stole fire from Heaven and as the crowning message of a work meant to glorify all heroic
endeavor. A thorough familiarity with this movement will repay the student not only as exemplifying
Beethoven's freedom of expression but indeed as a point of departure for so many modern works
in free variation form. See Supplement No. 45.

To illustrate Beethoven's Pianoforte compositions we shall now analyze the Seventh Sonata in
D major, op. 10, No. 3. Only wholesale hero-worshipers consider all of the thirty-two Sonatas
of equal significance. It is true that, taken as a whole, they are a storehouse of creative
vitality and that in each there is something, somewhere, which strikes a spark; for everything
which Beethoven wrote was stamped with his dominating personality. But the fire of genius burns
more steadily in some of the Sonatas than in others. It is the very essence of genius to have
its transcendent moments; only mediocrity preserves a dead level. It is therefore no spirit
of fault finding which leads us to centre our attention upon those Sonatas which have best
stood the test of time and which never fail to convince us of their "raison d'être": the Appassionata,
the Waldstein, the C-sharp minor, the Pathétique, the Sonata in G major, op. 14, No. 2, and
all the last five, especially the glorious one in A-flat major, op. 119. It is futile to deny
that some of the early sonatas are experimental and that certain others do not represent Beethoven
at his best, being more the result of his constructive power than of an impelling message which
had to be expressed. The D major Sonata has been selected for study because, though composed
in Beethoven's first period, it is thoroughly characteristic, and because its performance is
within the powers of the average intelligent amateur. The full beauty of the later Sonatas
can be realized only by great virtuosi who devote to them years of study. The work is in four
movements: the first, complete Sonata-form; the second, modified Sonata-form; the third, Three-part;
the Finale, a freely treated Rondo-Sonata-form. The first movement, Presto, begins with a vigorous
presentation of the main theme which ends in measure 22 with the last of three ff octaves.
The unusually long transition, containing a subsidiary theme in B minor, is remarkable for
its onrushing excitement and for the playful false leads which usher in the second theme. After
a brilliant cadence in the dominant key, one would suppose this theme might be announced in
measure 53, but not so; after three measures of cantabile melody, progress is interrupted by
a group of descending octave leaps. A second attempt is now made, this time in A minor, only
to be thwarted by a still more capricious octave descent. This time, however, after a dramatic
pause, we are rewarded with a clear-cut, periodic melody beginning in measure 66, against which
the rhythm of the first theme keeps up a gentle undercurrent. Some interesting modulations
develop into a series of descending octaves which, accompanied by sf chords, lead to the closing
portion. This brilliant passage accentuates the dominant key of the second theme. After a short
tranquillo phrase and some free imitations of the main theme we repeat the Exposition, or go
on to the Development ushered in by a bold change to the mediant key of B-flat major. After
several appearances of the main theme in the bass, Beethoven takes a leaf out of D. Scarlatti's
book and revels in some crossing of the hands and some wide leaps. The Recapitulation corresponds
exactly with the first part until we reach the Coda in measure 298, which affords a striking
example of Beethoven's power of climax. After a long period of suspense an imitative treatment
of the first theme, with kettle-drum effect in the bass, leads to a stringendo ascending passage
which closes with two crashing dissonances and two peculiarly grouped chords, e.g.

[Music]

They have a hard, cutting brilliance all their own and give just the touch of color needed
to finish this dazzling movement.[145]

[Footnote 145: By Beethoven everything is carefully planned. Note in performance the contrast
of mood suggested by these final chords and the sombre register of the opening chords of the
Slow Movement.]

In the Slow Movement, Largo e Mesto, there is a depth of emotion quite unparalleled in the
early history of music.[146] Certainly no composer since Bach had uttered such a message. As
soon as the movement begins we are convinced that it represents the outpouring of a soul capable
of deep meditations upon life and its mysteries, and with the eloquence at its command to impress
these thoughts upon the hearer. The number of themes and their key relationship are those of
Sonata-form, but instead of the usual development we have a new contrasting theme of great
pathos in the major mode. Observe the poignancy of the dissonances, e.g.,

[Music]

in the second theme of the Exposition which begins in measure 17, and the passionate outcries
in measures 35 and 37 of the middle portion. Just before the Recapitulation, in measures 41-43,
is an early example of Beethoven's fondness for instrumental recitative--music speaking with
a more intimate appeal than words. The movement ends with an impassioned Coda which, beginning
with the main theme in the bass and working up, more and more agitato, to a powerful climax,
dies away with mysterious fragments of the opening measures. The dissonant element so characteristic
of the whole movement is retained to the end, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 146: According to d'Indy it is more truly pathetic than the entire so-called Pathetic
Sonata.]

The growing importance of dissonance may be seen from a comparison of this movement with the
average slow movements of Haydn and Mozart These, although they have serenity and grace, beauty
and finish of form, and are sincere manifestations of the genius of their creators, are yet
lacking in passion. This placid mood and amiability of style is shown by the comparatively
slight employment of dissonances. By unthinking and uncultivated persons dissonances[147] are
often considered as something harsh, repellant--hence to be avoided. But dissonances contain
the real life and progress of music. They arouse, even take by storm our imaginations and shake
us out of our equanimity. Consonant chords represent stability, satisfaction and, when over-used,
inertia. The genius of the composer is shown in establishing just the right proportion between
these two elements; but if there is to be any disproportion let us have too much rather than
too little dissonance, for then, at any rate, the music is alive. Since Beethoven the whole
development of music as a human language shows the preponderating stress laid on dissonance;
to this fact a knowledge of the works of Schumann, Chopin, Wagner, Debussy and Franck will
amply testify.[148] The same analogy holds equally in all realms of life, human and physical.
The truest development of character depends on the warring elements of good and evil. Honest
discontent is the first step to progress. Dissonance is the yeast of music and should be welcomed
for its invigorating influence.

[Footnote 147: A frequent confusion of thought is shown in the use of the words "discord" and
"dissonance." A discord is an unrelated noise, as when one bangs with both fists on the key-board.
A dissonance is a logical introduction of intervals or chords made up of jarring factors for
their stimulating effect upon the imagination.]

[Footnote 148: Two of the greatest innovators in this direction, Scryabin and Stravinsky, have
been working in our own day, and there is no doubt that by their daring experiments they have
enlarged the expressive powers of music. While it is obvious that the dramatic effect of to-day
stimulates the experimentation of tomorrow, contrariwise, the immediate contribution of each
innovator is to render more clear the work of his predecessor, up to that moment the confessed
iconoclast.]

The third movement, Minuetto, may be taken as a reply to Haydn's well-known wish "Oh! that
some one would write us a new Minuet." Well, here it is--with all the grace and charm of the
18th century type and yet with more import, especially in the Coda with its haunting retrospect.
The rhythmic formation of the opening sentence would be clearer if two measures had been thrown
into one, for the swing is clearly that of a 6/4 measure. The Trio, with its Scarlatti-like
crossing of the hands, is a playful bit of badinage, affording a delightful contrast to the
Minuetto. Such genuine variety in mood makes the Three-part Form of lasting worth.

The Finale, Allegro, with its capricious fortissimo outbursts and unexpected sforzandos is
a characteristic example of Beethoven's freedom of utterance. Any cast-iron conception of form
was entirely foreign to his nature; instead, he made form the servant of the freest flights
of fancy. The movement begins as if it were to be worked out in the so-called Rondo Sonata-form--a
hybrid, tripartite structure related to the Sonata-form in that it has two themes in the first
and last portions, and to the Rondo in that the middle portion is a free Episode instead of
the customary development of former material. The salient feature by which this form may always
be recognized is that the Exposition closes with a definite return to the first theme--thus
emphasizing the Rondo aspect--instead of with an expanded cadence based upon the second theme.
As we have stated before (see Chapter IX), many of Beethoven's Finales are in this mixed form,
clear examples of which may be found in the last movements of the Fourth, Eighth and Twelfth
Sonatas. The Finale of the Twelfth Sonata has been included in the Supplement in order to make
this important form familiar to the student. To return now to the Finale of the sonata we are
studying. Its first two portions correspond exactly to the usual practice in the Rondo-Sonata
form just explained; i.e., we find in the Exposition a first theme, a modulatory transition,
a second theme (beginning in measure 17) and a definite repetition of the first theme, in measures
25-32. Then, after two measures of bold modulation, begins the middle, episodical passage which,
closing with a whimsical cadenza-like passage, leads back to the beginning of the third part.
After a complete, slightly varied appearance of the first theme, Beethoven does not repeat
the second theme, as we should expect, but allows his fancy to indulge in a series of brilliant
passages, exciting modulations and dynamic contrasts. All this freedom is held together by
insistence on the fundamental rhythmic motive (measures 72-83). A final embellished statement
of the first theme ushers in the fiery Coda, in measure 92, which ends with a long running
passage; beneath, we hear reminiscences of the main theme. It is often stated that Beethoven's
Sonatas are lacking in pianistic effect, and it is true that his pianoforte works do not bring
out the possibilities of color and sonority as we find them, for example, in Chopin and Debussy--the
orchestra and the string-quartet being indeed his favorite media of expression. Yet during
his entire early career Beethoven was famous as a performer and improviser on the pianoforte
and some, at any rate, of his deepest thoughts have been confided to that instrument. That
he was not at all insensible to the beauty of pianistic effect for its own sake is shown by
the syncopated, shadowy chords in measures 101-105, the whole justification for which lies
in their enchanting sound.[149]

[Footnote 149: For a very clear tabular view of the structure of this Sonata see d'Indy's Cours
de Composition Musicale, Book II, p. 332.]

SYMPHONY NO. 5[150]

[Footnote 150: This is not given in the Supplement. See preceding remarks apropos of the Third
Symphony. The comments are based, as usual, on the full orchestral score.]

The Fifth Symphony in C minor, op. 67, is deservedly popular because it is so human; a translation,
in fact, of life itself into the glowing language of music. Beethoven's emotional power was
so deep and true that, in expressing himself, he spoke, like every great philosopher, poet
or artist, for all mankind. Which one of us in his own experience, has not felt the same protests
against relentless Fate that find such uncontrollable utterance in the first movement? Who,
again, is untouched by that angelic message, set before us in the second movement, of hope
and aspiration, of heroic and even warlike[151] resolution, mingled with the resignation which
only great souls know? The third movement (Allegro)--in reality a Scherzo of the most fantastic
type, though not so marked--might well typify the riddle of the Universe. We indeed "see through
a glass darkly," and yet there is no note of despair. Amid the sinister mutterings of the basses
there ring out, on the horns and trumpets, clarion calls to action. While we are in this world
we must live its life; a living death is unendurable. The Finale, Allegro maestoso, is a majestic
declaration of unconquerable faith and optimism--the intense expression of Beethoven's own
words, "I will grapple with Fate, it shall never pull me down"--to be compared only with Browning's
"God's in his heaven, all's right with the world," and the peroration to Whitman's Mystic Trumpeter,
"Joy, joy, over all joy!" No adequate attempt could be made to translate the music into words.
The Symphony is extremely subjective; indeed, autobiographic. For all historical details as
to its composition, the reader is referred to the Grove essay,[152] and for eulogistic rhapsodies
nothing can surpass the essay of Berlioz, that prince of critics. We shall content ourselves
with a few comments of a structural nature and then trust the student to seek a performance
of the work by a good orchestra. Of the first movement (Allegro con brio)[153] the dominant
characteristics, especially in comparison with the wealth of material in the Heroic, are conciseness
and intensity. It starts at once, without prelude, with the motive--one of the tersest in music--from
which is developed, polyphonically, the first theme, e.g.

[Music[A]]

[Footnote 151: This interpretation of d'Indy is based upon the prevalence in the movement of
the conventional martial rhythm [Music] and carries, we must acknowledge, considerable weight.
It is, however, distinctly subjective and prevents no one from gaining quite a different impression.
We should be more inclined to accept the views of the noted French scholar had he not been
so wide of the mark, while speaking of the Seventh Symphony, as to deny any appearance of dance-rhythm
in the first movement But the Irish composer, Villiers Stanford, has shown conclusively that
the theme is based upon the rhythm of an Irish Hornpipe. Thus do the wise ones disagree! Meanwhile,
we others have the music itself.]

[Footnote 152: Beethoven and his Nine Symphonies by Sir George Grove.]

[Footnote 153: Beethoven's favorite mark of tempo and expression.]

[Footnote A: There are also some p holding notes on the bassoons.]

Everything is concentrated in the highest degree and the assault upon our consciousness is
of corresponding power. A tempestuous transition leads to two short sf chords and then in measure
59, announced ff by the horns, appears the first phrase of the second theme, based on the same
motive as the first, but in the relative major (E-flat), e.g.

[Music]

It is answered by a second phrase of marked simplicity and loveliness--a mood, indeed, of resignation.
This is only momentary, however, for the relentless rhythm of the chief motive continues to
assert itself in the basses until, as it gathers headway after a short closing phrase (95-99),
it is thundered out ff by the full orchestra in a series of descending groups. The Development
continues the same resistless impetuosity. Note the grim effect of the empty fifths and fourths
in measures 126-127. Once only is there a slackening of the titanic, elemental drive--in the
mysterious passage (212-239) where the pent-up fury of the composer seems to have exhausted
itself. It is only, however, a lull in the storm which breaks forth with renewed energy in
the Recapitulation and Coda. Observe the pathetic commentary which the solo oboe makes upon
the main theme at the outset of the third part (268)--a flower growing out of the débris of
the avalanche. The Coda begins, at measure 374, with a passionate insistence upon the fundamental
rhythm, driven home with sharp hammer-blows and, as in all Beethoven's symphonic movements,
furnishes an overpowering climax, not a mere perfunctory close. The second Movement, in A-flat
major, is a series of free[154] Variations (five in number) based on a theme, Andante con moto,[155]
of great rhythmic vitality, peculiarly rich and suave--announced, as it is, by 'celli and violas
in unison, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 154: Free, in that they are not numbered and are not separated by rigid cadences;
in that episodical passages--often of a rhapsodic nature--are interpolated.]

[Footnote 155: The tempo is often taken by conductors too slowly, thus losing much of its buoyancy.]

The first two presentations of the theme are in each case followed by a passage of martial
character which bursts triumphantly into C major. There is an orchestral touch of great beauty
and originality in the first and second variations (beginning in measures 49 and 98 respectively),
where a solo clarinet--later a flute, oboe and bassoon--prolongs a single tone which seems
to float above the melody like a guiding star.[156] A passage of special significance is that
in measures 123-146, where Beethoven indulges in a touching soliloquy upon his main theme.
It is mysteriously introduced by the repetition, eight times, pp, of the dominant chord (the
simplest medium of suspense) which seems to say "Hush, I have something most intimate reveal."
The Coda (Più Moto) begins with a mood of wistful reverie, but the clouds are soon dispelled
and the movement ends in radiant sunshine.

[Footnote 156: While listening to this passage one is instinctively reminded of Keats's "Bright
and steadfast star, hung aloft the night."]

The salient structural feature in the last two movements[157] is that they are merged together;
there is no pause after the Scherzo; and the movements are further interlocked by an interpolation,
in the middle of the Finale, of a portion of the preceding Scherzo--a kind of inter-quotation
or cross reference. This composite movement is a striking example of the organic relationship
which Beethoven succeeded in establishing--between the different movements of the symphony.
Prior to him, it is fair to say--to use a homely simile--that a sonata or a symphony resembled
a train of different cars merely linked together, one after the other; whereas the modern work,
as foreshadowed by Beethoven, is a vestibuled train: one indivisible whole from beginning to
end.[158] But before the Fifth Symphony there had been no such systematic unification; for
it is not too much to say that the whole work is based upon the persistent iteration of a single
note in varied rhythmic groups. Thus in the first movement we find continually the rhythm [Music];
in the second, in several places [Music]; in the Scherzo [Music]; and in the Finale [Music].
Furthermore a C, repeated by the kettle-drums for fifty measures, is the chief factor in the
connecting link between the Scherzo and the Finale. We shall observe this tendency to interconnection
still further developed by Schumann in his Fourth Symphony, by Liszt in the Symphonic Poem[159]
(to be treated later), and a climax of attainment reached in such highly unified works as César
Franck's D minor Symphony and Tchaikowsky's Fifth. To return to the Scherzo, well worthy of
note is the Trio, in free fugal form (its theme announced by the ponderous double basses),
because it is such a convincing illustration of the humorous possibilities inherent in fugal
style. The way in which the voices chase each other about--compared by Berlioz[160] with the
gambols of a delighted elephant--and their spasmodic attempts at assertion, produce an effect
irresistibly droll. The humour is as broad as that of Aristophanes or Rabelais. Words are powerless
to describe the thrill of the last fifty measures which launch us into the Finale. We may merely
observe that this long passage, pp throughout until the last molto crescendo, and with the
rhythmic element reduced to a minimum, makes more of an impact upon our imagination than that
of the loudest orchestral forces ever conceived. We are reminded of the effect of the "still,
small voice" after the thunders on Sinai. The Finale, with its majestic opening theme in fanfare,
contains a wealth of material and is conceived throughout in the utmost spirit of optimistic
joy and freedom.[161] The Exposition has a subsidiary theme of its own, beginning at measure
26, which reappears with rhythmic modification (diminution), and most eloquently announced
by the bassoons, in the first section of the final Coda. After the brilliant second theme (45-63)
there is an impressive closing theme (with some biting fp dissonances) which forms the basis
of the Presto portion of the Coda. The Development is a marvellous treatment of the second
theme, in imitation, modulation and climactic growth; the rhythm [Music], so vitally connected
with the whole work, persisting with stupendous energy. In the final measures it would seem
as if Beethoven were storming the very heavens. Here occurs the quotation from the preceding
Scherzo which binds the movements together and serves as a point of departure for a still greater
climax. It seems unreasonable to expect a higher flight, but the genius of Beethoven is equal
to the effort. If, before, we have reached the heavens, now we pierce them. The brilliant Coda--note
the ascending runs for the piccolo--is in three sections, the first based on the subsidiary
theme, e.g.,

[Music]

the second on the closing theme in quickened tempo, e.g.,

[Music[B]]

and the third, a canonic treatment of the opening fanfare, e.g.,

[Music]

in which the orchestra seems to tumble head over heels in a paroxysm of delight. The movement
closes with prolonged shouts of victory and exultation.[162]

[Footnote 157: Taken separately, the movements are perfectly normal; the Scherzo in the usual
Three-part form and the Finale in complete Sonata-form.]

[Footnote 158: There are traces of this striving for organic unity in several of the early
Sonatas, notably in the Sonata Pathétique, where the motive of the first theme of the Finale
is identical with that of the second theme of the opening movement e.g.

[Music: 1st Movement]

[Music: Finale]

Also in the C-sharp minor Sonata, op. 27, we find a case of melodic relationship between a
phase in the introductory meditation and the main theme of the Minuet.]

[Footnote 159: A Symphonic Poem is a descriptive composition for orchestra which incorporates
many of the customary symphonic moods; but the form is free, largely dependent on the poetic
basis, and the structure is without stops, being one continuous whole.]

[Footnote 160: His exact words are--"Le milieu (the trio) ressemble assez aux ébats d'un éléphant
en gaieté--mais le monstre s'éloigne et le bruit de sa folle course se perd graduellement."]

[Footnote 161: Its motto might well be Browning's famous lines: "How good is man's life, how
fit to employ all the heart and the soul and the senses forever in joy."]

[Footnote B: This pianoforte figure being a very inadequate substitute for the restless tremolo
of the violas, i.e., [Music].]

[Footnote 162: For suggestive comments by the noted critic E.T.A. Hoffmann, one of the first
to realize the genius of Beethoven, and for a complete translation of his essay on the Fifth
Symphony see the article by A.W. Locke in the Musical Quarterly for January, 1917.]

THE CORIOLANUS OVERTURE

This dramatic work is of great importance, not only for its emotional power and eloquence,
but because it represents a type of Program music, i.e., music with a suggestive title, which
Beethoven was the first to conceive and to establish. From the inherent connection between
the materials of music (sound and rhythm) and certain natural phenomena (the sound and rhythm
of wind, wave and storm, the call of birds, etc.) it is evident that the possibility for Program--or
descriptive--music has always existed.[163] That is, the imagination of musicians has continually
been influenced by external sights, sounds and events; and to their translation into music
suggestive titles have been given, as a guide to the hearer. Thus we find Jannequin, a French
composer of the 16th century, writing two pieces--for voices!--entitled "Les cris de Paris"
and "La Bataille--défaite des Suisses à la journée de Marignan;" in the former of which are
introduced the varied cries of street venders and in the latter, imitations of fifes, drums,
cannon and all the bustle and noises of war. In the Fitzwilliam Virginal Book there is a Fantasie
by John Mundy of the English school, in which such natural phenomena as thunder, lightning
and fair weather are delineated. There is a curious similarity between the musical portrayal
of lightning in this piece[164] of Mundy and that of Wagner in the Valkyrie. In the Bible Sonatas
of the German composer Kuhnau (1660-1722) we have a musical description of the combat between
David and Goliath. Anyone at all familiar with the music of Couperin and Rameau will recall
the variety of fantastic titles assigned to their charming pieces for the claveçin--almost
always drawn from the field of nature: birds, bees, butterflies, hens, windmills, even an eel!
It is but fair to state that we also find attempts at character drawing, even in those early
days, as is indicated by such titles as La Prude, La Diligente, La Séduisante.[165] Haydn's
portrayal of Chaos, in the Prelude to the Creation, is a remarkable mood-picture and shows
a trend in quite a different direction. All these instances corroborate the statement that,
in general, composers were influenced by external phenomena and that their program music was
of an imitative and often frankly literal kind. From what we know of Beethoven's nature and
genius, however, we should imagine that he would be far more interested in the emotions and
struggles of the soul and we find that such indeed is the case. With the exception of the Pastoral
Symphony with its bird-calls and thunderstorm and the Egmont Overture with its graphic description
of a returning victorious army, his program music invariably aims at the description of character
and the manner in which it is influenced by events--not, be it understood, at a musical portrayal
of the events themselves. This difference in type is generally indicated by the terms subjective
and objective, i.e., program music is subjective, when it deals with the emotions and moods
of real or historical persons; objective, when it is based upon incidents or objects of the
actual world. It is evident that in subjective program music an adjustment must be made, for
the dramatic needs of the subject are to be considered as well as the inherent laws of music
itself. We may state that the widening of the conception of form, so marked in modern music,
has been caused by the need of such an adjustment; for as composers became more cultivated,
more in touch with life and of more richly endowed imagination, the arbitrary conventions of
strict form had perforce to yield to the demands of dramatic treatment. This implies not that
program music is without a definite structure, only that the form is different--modified by
the needs of the subject. As there is no other point in aesthetics which has caused more loose
thinking, a few further comments may be pertinent. Some critics go so far as to deny the right
of existence to all program music.[166] Of course there is good as well as bad program music,
but to condemn it per se is simply to fly in the face of facts, for a large proportion of the
music since Beethoven is on a poetic basis and has descriptive titles. Others claim that they
cannot understand it. But that is their loss, not the fault of the music; the composer writes
it and it is for us to acquire the state of mind to appreciate it. Another misleading allegation,
often heard, is that a piece of program music should be so clear and self-sufficient that the
hearer needs to know nothing of the title to derive the fullest enjoyment. But this simply
begs the question. As well say that in listening to a song we need to know nothing of the meaning
of the text. It is true that in listening to Beethoven's Coriolanus, for example, any sensitive
hearer will be impressed by the vitality of the rhythm and the sheer beauty of orchestral sound.
But to hold that such a hearer gets as much from the work as he who knows the underlying drama
and can follow sympathetically the correspondence between the characters and their musical
treatment is to indulge in reckless assertion. The true relationship between composer and hearer
is this: when works are entitled Coriolanus, Melpomene, Francesca da Rimini, Sakuntala, L'après-midi
d'un Faune, The Mystic Trumpeter, L'apprenti Sorcier, and the composers reveal therein the
influence such subjects have had upon their imagination, they are paying a tacit compliment
to the hearer whose breadth of intelligence and cultivation they expect to be on a par with
their own. If such be not the case, the fault is not the composer's; the burden of proof is
on the listener.[167] Let us now trace certain relationships between the drama of Coriolanus
and the musical characterization of Beethoven. The Overture was composed as an introduction
to a tragedy by the German playwright von Collin, but as the play is obsolete and as both von
Collin and Shakespeare went to Plutarch for their sources, a familiarity--which should be taken
for granted[168]--with the English drama will furnish sufficient background for an appreciation
of the music. The scene before the city gates is evidently that in which Volumnia and Virgilia
plead with the victorious warrior to refrain from his fell purpose of destruction. The work
is in Sonata-form, since the great Sonata principle of duality of theme exactly harmonizes
with the two main influences of the drama--the masculine and the feminine. It is of particular
interest to observe how the usual methods of Sonata-form procedure are modified to suit the
dramatic logic of the subject. The work begins Allegro con brio, with three sustained Cs--as
if someone were stamping with heavy foot--followed by a series of assertive ff chords for full
orchestra (note the piercing dissonance in the 7th measure), which at once establishes an atmosphere
of headstrong defiance. The first theme, beginning in measure 15 with its restless rhythm,
is not meant to be beautiful in the ordinary sense of the term--"a concourse of sweet sounds";
rather is it a dramatic characterization, a picture in terms of music, of the reckless energy
and the fierce threats which we naturally associate with Coriolanus. The theme is repeated
and then the transition develops this masculine mood in an impassioned manner--observe the
frequency of sf accents and the crashing dissonances[169]--until a sustained note on the violins,
followed by a descending cantabile phrase, brings us to the second theme, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 163: A complete account of this development may be found in the first two chapters
of Niecks's Programme Music.]

[Footnote 164: For an excellent description of this piece, as well as others of the period,
see the volume by Krehbiel The Pianoforte and Its Music.]

[Footnote 165: A comprehensive and invaluable description of the works and style of Couperin
and Rameau may be found in the History of the Pianoforte and its Players by Oscar Bie. For
an early example of what is now called "poetic atmosphere" everyone should know Couperin's
piece Les Barricades Mystérieuses which is more suggestive when played on the claveçin with
its delicate tone.]

[Footnote 166: A favorite term of opprobrium is that the program is a "crutch."]

[Footnote 167: There are several essays which will help the student toward clear thinking on
this important subject: the valuable essay Program Music in Newman's Musical Studies, the article
on the subject in Grove's Dictionary, and the exhaustive volume by Niecks; some of his views,
however, are extreme and must be accepted with caution. Above all should be read Wagner's interpretation
of Coriolanus in his essay on the Overture (English translation by W.A. Ellis).]

[Footnote 168: Twenty-five years' experience as a college teacher, however, has proved that
too much may be taken for granted!]

[Footnote 169: It is unfortunate that the diminished seventh chord does not sound so fierce
to our modern ears as it undoubtedly did in Beethoven's time, but that is simply because we
have become accustomed to more strident effects.]

This theme, in distinction from the first, typifies the appeal for mercy made by the women
in the drama. No contrast could be stronger than that between these two themes--the first,
impulsive, staccato, of sweeping range, and in the minor; the second, suave, legato, restrained
and in the major. They show indeed how powerfully Beethoven's imagination was impressed by
the subject. After an eloquent expansion of the second theme there follow several stormy measures
(the deprecations of the women are at first of no avail) that lead through a crescendo to a
closing theme, at measure 83, in which the mood of defiant assertion is strongly marked. The
exposition closes in this mood, in measure 100, and the following Development accentuates it
through several successions of restless, crescendo passages until a ff descent sweeps us back
to the Recapitulation, in measure 151. It is now evident that the furious intentions of the
warrior have raged themselves out, for not only is the theme which represents him much shortened
but it loses somewhat of its former fiery intensity. From here on, the trend of the music is
largely modified by the dramatic demands of the subject. That the appeals of the women are
beginning to prevail is evident from the emphasis laid on the second theme, which gives its
message no less than three times, instead of the single appearance which we should expect in
the usual Recapitulation. The third appeal, in measures 247-253, is rendered most pathetic
by being expressed in the minor mode. In the Coda there are fitful flare-ups of the relentless
purpose, but that the stubborn will has been softened is evident from the slowing down of the
rhythm, in measures 285-294. Finally, in the wonderful closing passage, we have a picture of
broken resolves and ruined hopes. The theme disintegrates and fades away--a lifeless vision.
Although much of the structure in this overture is identical with that which prevails in absolute
music--for, after all, the composer must be true to the laws of his medium of expression--there
is enough purely dramatic treatment to justify the foregoing analysis. Beethoven, at any rate,
called the overture Coriolanus, and we may be sure he meant it to represent Coriolanus and
to be something more than a skillful combination of sounds and rhythms.

We now add a few last words on the quality of Beethoven's themes in his moments of supreme
inspiration. The unshaken hold which his music has upon the affections of mankind is due chiefly
to two striking characteristics: first, the way in which he dramatized everything--themes,
instruments, even single notes, i.e., treating them as actual factors in life itself rather
than as artistic abstractions; second, the spirituality and sublimity in his immortal message.
The first quality is exemplified in a number of passages, notably in the first movement of
the Violin Concerto and in the Finale of the Eighth Symphony. In the opening measures of the
Concerto the use of the single note D-sharp, and the entry pp of the F natural in the following
passage--in each case, entirely disconnected from the normal rules of musical grammar--are
most dramatic, e.g.

[Music]

At the mysterious entrance of the F natural in this passage it would seem as if some mighty
spirit were suddenly looking over our shoulder. In the Finale of the Eighth Symphony what can
be more startling than the sudden explosive entrance of the unrelated C-sharp--before the orchestra
continues its mad career--which can be compared only to the uproarious laughter of Rabelais
himself, e.g.

[Music]

There are numerous examples in Beethoven showing his dramatic use of such orchestral instruments
as the bassoons, horns, kettle-drums and double basses. Possibly the most striking[170] is
the Slow Movement of the G major Pianoforte Concerto--that inspired dialogue, as it has been
eloquently called, "between Destiny and the human soul," in which the touching appeals of the
solo instrument are constantly interrupted by the sinister mutterings and forebodings of the
strings. Observe especially the closing measures where the basses, alone are heard pp, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 170: See, however, the octave leaps of the kettle-drums in the Scherzo of the Ninth
Symphony.]

A spiritual quality escapes verbal definition; but just as we can feel it in certain characters,
and just as we recognize the sublime in nature and in such works of art as a cathedral or a
Shakespearian Drama, so we may find it in the following specific examples from his works: the
Trio of the second movement of the Seventh Symphony; the Slow Movement theme of the B-flat
major Trio and the Slow Movement of the Sonata op. 109. (See Supplement Nos. 47, 48, 49.) Anyone
who allows these themes to sink into his consciousness is carried into a realm of ideality
where he begins to recognize the truth that "the things which are unseen are eternal." Music
of this transporting power is far above that which merely excites, amuses or even fascinates;
and of such music Beethoven is the poet for all time.

We have referred above to the voluminous literature extant concerning Beethoven. Several scholars,
in fact--notably Alexander Thayer and Sir George Grove--have devoted a large part of their
lives to finding out all there is to be known about his life and works. Obviously the layman
cannot be expected to become familiar with this entire mass of historical and critical writing.
The following books, however, may be considered indispensable aids to those who would become
cultivated appreciators of Beethoven's masterpieces: the Life of Beethoven by Alexander Thayer--a
great glory to American scholarship; the life in Grove's Dictionary; the illuminating Biography
by d'Indy (in French and in English); Beethoven and his Nine Symphonies by Grove; the Oxford
History of Music, Vol. V; and the essay by Mason in his Beethoven and his Forerunners.[171]
We cite, in closing, a eulogy[172] by Dannreuther--in our opinion the most eloquent ever written
on Beethoven's genius:

"While listening," says Mr. Dannreuther, "to such works as the Overture to Leonora, the Sinfonia
Eroica, or the Ninth Symphony, we feel that we are in the presence of something far wider and
higher than the mere development of musical themes. The execution in detail of each movement
and each succeeding work is modified more and more by the prevailing sentiment. A religious
passion and elevation are present in the utterances. The mental and moral horizon of the music
grows upon us with each renewed hearing. The different movements--like the different particles
of each movement--have as close a connection with one another as the acts of a tragedy, and
a characteristic significance to be understood only in relation to the whole; each work is
in the full sense of the word a revelation. Beethoven speaks a language no one has spoken before,
and treats of things no one has dreamt of before: yet it seems as though he were speaking of
matters long familiar, in one's mother tongue; as though he touched upon emotions one had lived
through in some former existence.... The warmth and depth of his ethical sentiment is now felt
all the world over, and it will ere long be universally recognised that he has leavened and
widened the sphere of men's emotions in a manner akin to that in which the conceptions of great
philosophers and poets have widened the sphere of men's intellectual activity."

[Footnote 171: Suggestive comments from a literary point of view may also be found in these
works: Studies in the Seven Arts, Symonds; Beethoven by Romain Rolland--with an interesting
though ultra-subjective introduction by Carpenter; The Development of Symphonic Music by T.W.
Surette; Beethoven by Walker; Beethoven by Chantavoine in the series Les Maîtres de la Musique.
As to the three successive "styles" under which Beethoven's works are generally classified
there is an excellent account in Pratt's History of Music, p. 419.]

[Footnote 172: This passage is to be found in the Life in Grove's Dictionary.]

CHAPTER XII

THE ROMANTIC COMPOSERS. SCHUBERT AND WEBER

During the latter part of Beethoven's life--he died in 1827--new currents were setting in,
which were to influence profoundly the trend of modern music. Two important, though in some
respects unconscious, representatives of these tendencies were actually working contemporaneously
with Beethoven, von Weber (1786-1826) and Schubert (1797-1828). Beethoven himself is felt to
be a dual personality in that he summed up and ratified all that was best in his predecessors,
and pointed the way for most of the tendencies operative since his time. For the designation
of these two contrasting, though not exclusive, ideals, the currently accepted terms are Classic
and Romantic. So many shades of meaning have unfortunately been associated with the word Romantic
that confusion of thought has arisen. It is also true that the so-called Romanticists, including
poets and painters as well as musicians, in their endeavors to break loose from the formality
of the Classic period, have indulged in many irritating idiosyncracies. We are beginning to
see clearly that a too violent expression of individuality destroys a most vital factor in
music--universality of appeal. Yet the Romantic School cannot be ignored. To its representatives
we owe many of our finest works, and they were the prime movers in those strivings toward freedom
and ideality which have made the modern world what it is. The term Romantic is perfectly clear
in its application to literature, from which music borrowed it. It refers to the movement begun
about the year 1796 among such German poets as Tieck, the two Schlegels and Novalis, to restore
the poetic legends of the middle ages, written in the Romance dialects, and to embody in their
own works the fantastic spirit of this medieval poetry.[173] In reference to music, however,
the terms Classic and Romantic are often vague and misleading, and have had extreme interpretations
put upon them.[174] Thus, to many, "romantic" implies ultra-sentimental, mawkish or grotesque,
while everything "classic" is dry, uninspired and academic. How often we hear the expression,
"I am not up to classic music; let me hear something modern and romantic." Many scholars show
little respect for the terms and some would abolish them altogether. Everything, however, hinges
upon a reasonable definition. Pater's well-known saying that "Romanticism is the addition of
strangeness to beauty" is fair; and yet, since strangeness in art can result only from imaginative
conception, it amounts to nothing more than the truism that romantic art is imbued with personality.
Hence Stendhal is right in saying that "All good art was Romantic in its day"; i.e., it exhibited
as much warmth and individuality as the spirit of its times would allow. Surely Bach, Haydn
and Mozart were real characters, notwithstanding the restraint which the artificialities of
the period often put upon their utterance. On the other hand, work at first pronounced to be
romantic establishes, by a universal recognition of its merit, the claim to be considered classic,
or set apart; what is romantic to-day thus growing to be classic[175] tomorrow. It is evident,
therefore, that the terms interlock and are not mutually exclusive. It is a mistaken attitude
to set one school off against the other, or to prove that one style is greater than the other;
they are simply different. Compositions of lasting worth always manifest such a happy union
of qualities that, in a broad sense, they may be called both romantic and classic, i.e., they
combine personal emotion and imagination with breadth of meaning and solidity of structure.

[Footnote 173: For a more complete historical account see the article "Romantic" in Grove's
Dictionary and the introduction to Vol. VI of The Oxford History of Music.

Lowell, Among My Books.]

Beginning, however, with Schubert and Weber--the two first representatives of the romantic
group--there is a marked novelty of content and style; and if we drop the terms and confine
ourselves to the inner evidence of the music itself, we note a difference which may be felt
and to a certain extent formulated. To take extreme types for the sake of vivid contrast, let
us compare the compositions of Haydn and Mozart with those of Berlioz and Liszt. In the former
there is repose, restraint and a perfect finish in the structural presentation; a feeling of
serenity comes over us as we listen. In the latter, a peculiar intensity of expression, an
attempt to fascinate the listener by the most intimate kinds of appeal, especially to the senses
and fancy, regardless of any liberties taken with former modes of treatment. The purely classical
composer is always master of his subject, whereas the romanticist is often carried away by
it. Classical works are objectively beautiful, commending themselves to everyone like works
of nature, or, let us say, like decorative patterns in pure design. Romantic works are subjective,
charged with individuality and demand a sensitive and sympathetic appreciation on the part
of the hearer. It is evident that many of these tendencies are found clearly outlined in the
works of Beethoven. In fact, as has been said, he was not only the climax of the classical
school, but the founder of the new era--opening a door, as it were, into the possibilities
of a more intense, specialized form of emotional utterance and a freer conception of form.
These special characteristics were so fully developed by Beethoven's successors, Schubert,
Weber, Schumann, Chopin, etc. that they are always grouped together as the Romantic School.
A striking feature in this whole Romantic group is the early flowering of their genius and
the shortness of their lives--Weber, forty years, Schubert, thirty-one, Schumann, forty-six,
Mendelssohn, thirty-eight, Chopin, forty. In the case of all the composers we have hitherto
studied, with the exception of Mozart, their masterpieces have been the result of long years
of patient, technical study and hence show that finish and maturity of style which come only
with time. But the precocity of the Romanticists is astounding! Many of Schubert's famous pieces
were composed in his earliest manhood; Mendelssohn's Midsummer Night's Dream Overture dates
from his sixteenth year; Schumann's best pianoforte works were composed before he was thirty.
The irresistible spontaneity and vigor of all these works largely atone for any blemishes in
treatment. We feel somewhat the same in the case of Keats and Shelley in comparison with Milton,
and are reminded of Wordsworth's lines, "Bliss was it in that hour to be alive, but to be young
was very Heaven."[176] Why expect senatorial wisdom and the fancy of youth in any one person!

[Footnote 176: Compare also the definition of genius by Masters in the Spoon River Anthology:

    "In youth my wings were strong and tireless,
    But I did not know the mountains.
    In age I knew the mountains
    But my weary wings could not follow my vision--
    Genius is wisdom and youth."]

A most important distinction between a classical and a romantic composer is the knowledge and
love of literature shown by the latter. Although Haydn kept a note-book on his London tours,
and although we have a fair number of letters from Mozart, in neither of these men do we find
any appreciation of general currents of thought and life. In many of Beethoven's works we have
seen how close was the connection between literature and musical expression. All the Romantic
composers, with the exception of Schubert, were broadly cultivated, and several could express
themselves artistically in words as well as in notes. They may not have been on this account
any better composers, as far as sheer creative vitality is concerned, but it is evident that
their imaginations were nourished in quite a different way and hence a novel product was to
be expected. Romantic music has been defined as a reflex of poetry expressed in musical terms,
at times fairly trembling on the verge of speech. Music can not, to be sure, describe matters
of fact, but the Romantic composers have brought it to a high degree of poetical suggestiveness.
Schumann claimed that his object in writing music was so to influence the imagination of the
listeners that they could go on dreaming for themselves. A second characteristic is the freedom
of form. Considering that a free rein to their fancy was incompatible with strict adherence
to traditional rules, the Romantic spirits refused to be bound by forms felt to be inadequate.
Although this attitude sometimes resulted in diffuseness and obscurity, on the whole (as Goethe
says of romantic literature) "a wider and more varied subject matter and a freer form has been
attained." The chief aim of romantic art being to arouse the imagination, we find a predilection
for the use of solo wood-wind instruments, which are capable of such warmth and variety of
tone-color. Whereas in the classical masters, and even generally in Beethoven, the melodies
are likely to be the upper voice of a harmonic mass, or assigned to groups of instruments,
Weber and Schubert in particular showed the eloquence to be gained by the use of such warm-blooded
solo instruments as the horn, the oboe and the clarinet. Schubert fairly conjures with the
horn, often holding us spellbound with its haunting appeal, e.g., in the well-known second
movement of the C major Symphony, the calls of which, as Schumann said, "seem to come from
another world." Schubert was anything but a thinker, and reflected unconsciously the tendencies
which were in the air; but his wonderful gift of lyric melody was thoroughly in keeping with
the individual expression for which Romanticism stood. He said himself that his compositions
were the direct result of his inmost sorrows. He was steeped in romantic poetry and the glowing
fancy in his best work leads us to condone the occasional prolixity referred to by Schumann
as "heavenly length." Schubert was well named by Liszt the most poetic of musicians, i.e.,
a creator of pure beauty which enthralls the imagination of the hearer. Why expect the work
of any one composer to manifest all possible merits? If we crave dynamic power of emotion or
sublimity of thought we may have recourse to Bach and Beethoven; but the spontaneous charm
of Schubert never grows old; and it is not without interest to note that his music fulfils
the definition of one of the most poetic composers of our time, Debussy, who claims that music
is chiefly meant "to give pleasure."

We note these same tendencies in Weber as shown in the overtures to his three Romantic operas,
Der Freischütz, Euryanthe and Oberon, which are the foundations of the modern art of dramatic
orchestration, i.e., the intensification of certain ideas and situations by the special tone
color and register of solo-instruments or by a novel use of customary means, e.g., the divided
violins in the mysterious passage of the Euryanthe overture. Another favorite means of arresting
the attention was by modulation; not used in a constructive sense, simply to pass from one
point to another, or to connect themes in different keys, but to furnish the ear with a purely
sensuous delight, corresponding to that which the eye derives from the kaleidoscopic colors
of a sunset. The works of Schubert, Chopin and to a lesser degree of Schumann abound in these
shifting harmonies by which we seem to be wafted along on a magic carpet. A final characteristic,
shared by all the Romantic composers, is the prevalence of titles--the logical result of the
close connection between music, literature and the world of outward events,--thus Mendelssohn's
Overture to the Midsummer Night's Dream with its romantic opening chords, his Hebrides Overture,
the musical record of a trip to Scotland, and Schumann's Manfred, from Byron. Liszt even went
so far as to draw inspiration from a painting, as in his Battle of the Huns, and again from
a beautiful vase in Orpheus.

We shall now make a few specific comments on the style of Schubert and Weber and then analyze
some of their representative works. Schubert was a born composer of songs, and though his works
for Pianoforte, String quartet and Orchestra were of marked significance and have proved of
lasting value, the instinct for highly individualized, lyric melody predominates, and all his
instrumental compositions may fairly be called "Songs without words."[177] It is evident that
the solo-song, unencumbered by structural considerations, is one of the best media for expressing
the Romantic spirit, and many of its fairest fruits are found in this field. Schubert's songs
are often tone-dramas in which the expressive powers of music are most eloquently employed.[178]
Note the poetic touches of character-drawing and of description in the Young Nun (see Supplement
No. 50). Schubert's pianoforte compositions are miniature tone-poems, mood-pictures--their
titles: Impromptus and Moments Musicaux, speak for themselves--making no pretense to the scope
and elaborate structure of movements in Sonata-form,[179] yet of great import not only for
their intrinsic beauty but as the prototypes of the numerous lyric and descriptive pieces of
Schumann, Brahms, Grieg, Debussy and others. Their charm lies in the heart-felt melodies and
surprising modulations. While neither sublime nor deeply introspective, they make the simple,
direct appeal of a lovely flower. In the development of music they are as important as the
modern short story in the field of literature; which, in distinction to the old "three-decker"
novel, often really says more and says it so concisely that our interest never flags. This
tendency to the short, independent piece had been begun by Beethoven in his Bagatelles (French
"trifles"); but these, as has been aptly said, were "mere chips from the work-shop" whereas
in a short piece of Schubert we find the quintessence of his genius. He was a prolific composer
in the field of chamber music, and the Trios for Violin, 'Cello and Pianoforte, the A minor
Quartet, the C major Quintet and, above all, the posthumous Quartet in D minor, which contains
the entrancing Variations on the song Death and the Maiden, are still as fresh as when they
were composed. In these works we do not look for architectonic power--we must admit, in fact,
at the risk of seeming ungracious, that Schubert is diffuse at times--but our senses are so
enthralled by the imaginative freedom and by the splendor of color, that all purely intellectual
judgment is suspended. The magician works his wonders; it is for us to enjoy. We have from
Schubert seven complete Symphonies and the so-called Unfinished in B minor, i.e., the first
two movements and the fragment of a Scherzo. Of these the Fourth (Tragic), composed in 1816,
foreshadows the real Schubert and is occasionally heard to-day. But the immortal ones are the
B minor and the C major, the latter composed in 1828 (the last year of his life) and never
heard by its author.[180] Of this work Schumann said that "a tenth Muse had been added to the
nine of Beethoven." This symphony is specially characterized by the incorporation of Hungarian
types of melody, particularly in the first and in the last movement. It is indeed a storehouse
of beauty, but the "high moments" are in the last two movements--the fairly intoxicating Trio
of the Scherzo, which seems as if Nature herself were singing to us, and the gorgeous Finale
with its throbbing rhythms. The first movement is laid out on a vast scale and holds the attention
throughout, but the second movement, notwithstanding its wondrous theme, suffers from a lack
of concentration; the sweetness is so long-drawn out that we become sated.

[Footnote 177: Schubert was of incredible versatility and fecundity; he literally tried his
hand at everything: operas, church-music, ensemble combinations. Since, however, he exercised
little power of selection or revision much of this music has become obsolete. The joke is well-known
that he could set a theatre notice to music, and his rule for composing was "When I have finished
one song I begin another."]

[Footnote 178: For an original, though at times rhapsodic, study of Schubert's vocal style
see H.T. Finck's Songs and Song Writers, and the last chapter of the Fifth Volume of the Oxford
History.]

[Footnote 179: Schubert did compose a number of Pianoforte Sonatas in the conventional form,
but with the exception of the one in A minor they seem diffuse and do not represent him at
his best; they certainly have not held their own in modern appeal.]

[Footnote 180: For the account of its exciting discovery in Vienna by Schumann in 1838, after
a neglect of ten years, see the life of Schubert in Grove's Dictionary.]

As examples[181] for analytical comment we select the Menuetto in B minor from the Fantasia
for Pianoforte, op. 78; the fourth Impromptu in A-flat major from the set, op. 90, and the
B minor Symphony for orchestra. The Menuetto, though one of Schubert's simpler pieces--the
first part in an idealized Mozartian vein--yet exemplifies in the Trio one of the composer's
most characteristic traits, the predilection for those bewitching alternations,[182] like sunlight
and shadow, between the major and the minor mode.

[Footnote 181: For lack of space no one of these compositions is cited in the Supplement, but
they are all readily available.]

[Footnote 182: This tendency is prevalent in folk-music, especially that of the Russians and
Scandinavians. Schubert, however, was the first to make such systematic and artistic use of
the effect. For a beautiful modern example see the Spanish folk-dance by Granados, e.g.,

[Music]]

The Impromptu in A-flat major, one of several equally fine ones, is notable for the wealth
of its iridescent modulations and for the note of genuine pathos and passion in the middle
portion in the minor mode. Schubert might well say that his most inspired music came from his
sorrows.

The Unfinished Symphony requires less comment and elucidation than perhaps any other symphonic
composition. The two movements are in definite Sonata-form--the first, strict, the second,
with modifications; but the quality of the themes is quite different from that to which we
have been accustomed in classical treatment. Instead of the terse, characteristic motive which,
often at first uncompromisingly bare, impresses us as its latent possibilities are revealed,
we have a series of lyric, periodic melodies which make their instant appeal. In Schubert everything
sings; thus in the first part of the Exposition of the Allegro we have three distinct melodies:
the introductory phrase, the accompaniment figure which has a melodic line of its own, and
the first theme proper. In any consideration of this work from a pianoforte version we must
always remember how much the beauty and eloquence of the themes depend upon the solo instruments
to which they are assigned. For Schubert was one of the first, as well as one of the greatest,
of "Colorists." By the use of this pictorial term in music we mean that the tone-quality of
certain instruments--the mellow, far-echoing effect of the horn, the tang of the oboe, the
passionate warmth of the clarinet[183]--appeals to our sense of hearing in the same way in
which beautiful colors--the green grass, the blue sky, the hues of a sunset--delight our sight.
A striking example of Schubert's genius in utilizing tone-color to suit structural needs is
found in the transition beginning at measure 38. This is a single tone on the horn (with a
modulatory ending) announced forte and then allowed to die away, i.e., sf [decrescendo symbol].
So powerful is the horn in evoking a spirit of suspense and revery that this tone introduces
the beautiful, swaying second theme more impressively than a whole series of routine modulations.
The Development speaks for itself. Though there is little polyphonic treatment, it holds our
interest by reason of the harmonic variety and the dramatic touches of orchestration. In Schubert
we do not look for the development of a complicated plot but give ourselves up unreservedly
to the enjoyment of pure melodic line, couched in terms of sensuously delightful tone-color.
The transitional passage of the Recapitulation (measures 231-253) illustrates Schubert's fondness
for modulation just for its own sake; we care not what the objective point of the music may
be--enthralled, as we are, by the magical shifts of scene. In the Second Movement, likewise,
the chief beauty--especially of the second theme--consists in the lyric quality, in the color
of the solo instruments, the oboe, clarinet and horn, and in the enharmonic changes, e.g.,
where, in measures 80-95, the theme modulates from C-sharp minor to D-flat major. Note in the
orchestral score the charming dialogue in this passage between the clarinet, oboe and flute.
The Development, based upon the second theme, with some effective canonic treatment, shows
that Schubert was by no means entirely lacking in polyphonic skill. At any rate he can work
wonders with the horn, for at the close of the Development (measures 134-142) by the simple
device of an octave leap, ppp, he veritably transports the listener, e.g.

[Music]

The Coda has a dream-like quality all its own.

[Footnote 183: So appropriately called by Berlioz the "heroine of the orchestra."]

Weber's permanent contribution to musical literature has proved to be his operas--a form of
art not treated in this book. But the whole nature of his genius was so closely related to
the Romantic spirit, as shown in the intimate connection between literature and music, in his
descriptive powers and his development of the orchestra, that for the sake of comprehensiveness
some familiarity should be gained with the essential features of his style. Of Weber it may
be said with conviction that there is hardly a composer of acknowledged rank in whom style,
i.e., the way and the medium by which musical thought is presented, so prevails over the substance
of the thought itself. There are few if any of Weber's melodies which are notable for creative
power, and as a harmonist he was lamentably weak. It has been scathingly said, though with
considerable truth, that all his melodies are based upon an alternation of tonic and dominant
chords![184] But when we consider what his themes are meant to describe, the pictures they
evoke and their orchestral dress, we must acknowledge in Weber the touch of real poetic genius.
To quote Runciman[185]--

"If you look, and look rightly, for the right thing in Weber's music, disappointment is impossible,
though I admit that the man who professes to find there the great qualities he finds in Mozart,
Beethoven, or any of the giants, must be in a very sad case. Grandeur, pure beauty, and high
expressiveness are alike wanting. Weber's claim to a place amongst the composers is supported
in a lesser degree by the gifts which he shared, even if his share was small, with the greater
masters of music, than by his miraculous power of vividly drawing and painting in music the
things that kindled his imagination. Being a factor of the Romantic movement, that mighty rebellion
against the tyranny of a world of footrules and ledgers, he lived in a world where two and
two might make five or seven or any number you pleased, and where footrules were unknown; he
took small interest in drama taken out of the lives of ordinary men and enacted amidst every-day
surroundings; his imagination lit up only when he thought of haunted glens and ghouls and evil
spirits, the fantastic world and life that goes on underneath the ocean, or of men or women
held by ghastly spells."

[Footnote 184: A striking illustration of this progression (surely Weber's most characteristic
mannerism) is naïvely supplied by Weingartner; when, in his own orchestral arrangement of Weber's
Invitation to the Dance, for the final climax he assembles all the leading themes in combination--an
effect made possible only by their common harmonic basis.]

[Footnote 185: This whole article is well worth reading and may be found in that breezy though
somewhat erratic volume called Old Scores and New Readings.]

Weber's present-day fame rests upon the Overtures to his three operas of Der Freischütz, Euryanthe
and Oberon, which are often played in detached concert form and hold their own for their romantic
glow and for the brilliancy of orchestral effect. By employing for his thematic material the
leading melodies of the operas themselves Weber has created what may be called epitomized dramas
which, if we have any knowledge of what the titles imply, present us with realistic pictures.
For the use of special tone-color to enhance the dramatic situation Weber is the precursor
of that type of orchestration which has reached such heights in Wagner and other moderns. From
the above comments it is evident that only the barest idea of the Overtures can be gained from
a pianoforte version; we have selected Oberon[186] because it suffers less than either of the
others. Everyone, however, should become familiar with the mysterious, boding passage in the
introduction to Der Freischütz (taken from the scene in the Wolf's Glen) and the Intermezzo
from Euryanthe for muted, divided strings,[187] which accompanies the apparition of the ghost.
This is genuine descriptive music for it really sounds ghostly. (See Supplement No. 51.)

[Footnote 186: Not given in the Supplement since good arrangements for two and four hands are
numerous. To gain the real effect the student is strongly advised to consult the orchestral score.]

[Footnote 187: The genesis of so many similar effects in modern music, notably in Wagner.]

The Oberon Overture in D major, begins with the intoning of the motto of Oberon's magic horn,
and then follows a passage for muted strings (piano e adagio sostenuto) and for delicate combinations
of the wood-wind instruments, which gives us a picture of the moonlit glens of fairyland, peopled
with airy spirits. The vision is dispelled by a sudden ff chord for full orchestra which, from
its setting, is one of the loudest effects in music, thoroughly characteristic of Weber's penchant
for dramatic contrast. The main body of the work (allegro con fuoco) opens with a dashing theme
for the strings of great brilliancy, most typical of Weber. Though we may feel that it has
little substance (note the tonic and dominant foundation of the harmony) we cannot be insensible
to its abounding vigor. It is not alone the ponderous things which should move our imaginations;
even a soap-bubble is a wonderful phenomenon. The theme is expanded to a climax, in measure
28 (counting from the allegro), of great sonority and considerable harmonic boldness. After
some reminiscent appearances of the introductory horn-call, a long-sustained dominant note
introduces the second theme which seems a bit cloying, to be sure, but is just suited to the
melting tone-color of the clarinet. The closing theme borders on triviality; the Exposition
ends, however, with some exceedingly brilliant improvisations on the rhythmic figure of the
main theme. The following Development is rather flimsy and we need expend upon it no critical
powder. Weber was a great colorist but not a great architect. These qualities are united only
too seldom. In the Recapitulation, which is shortened by the omission of the second theme--rather
overworked in the Development--he is once more on his own ground of rhythmic life and dazzling
orchestral color. At the close we are convinced that the overture has accomplished its purpose
of graphically depicting the revels of Fairy-land.

Although they are seldom[188] played to-day, no account of Weber would be complete which entirely
passed over his compositions for the Pianoforte, i.e., the four Sonatas, the concert piece
in F minor and the originally conceived Invitation to the Dance, often played in the orchestral
version of Berlioz which is so much better than the inflated, bombastic one by Weingartner.
Weber is classed as one of the founders of the "brilliant school" of pianoforte playing which,
chiefly through the genius of Franz Liszt, has done so much to enlarge the sonorous and coloristic
possibilities of the instrument. Here again Weber's fame rests more upon his influence than
upon lasting achievement; as to the importance of this influence, however, there can be no doubt.

[Footnote 188: Perhaps the whirligig of time may restore them; who can say?]

The student will be repaid for informing[189] himself as fully as possible concerning Weber's
career and artistic ideals, for he was a genuine though early exponent of Romantic tendencies.
Of marked versatility, of no mean literary skill and of such social magnetism and charm that
he might properly be considered a man of the world, as well as an artist, Weber was thus enabled
to do pioneer work in raising the standard of musicianship and in bringing the art of music
and ordinary, daily life into closer touch.

[Footnote 189: The life in Grove's Dictionary is well worth while; there are essays by Krehbiel
and others and, above all, the biographical and critical accounts in the two French series:
Les Musiciens Célèbres, and Les Maîtres de la Musique.]

CHAPTER XIII

SCHUMANN AND MENDELSSOHN

In distinction from pioneers like Schubert, slightly tinged with Romanticism, and Weber who,
though versatile, was somewhat lacking in creative vigor, Schumann (1810-1856) stands forth
as the definite, conscious spokesman of the Romantic movement in German art just as Berlioz
was for art in France. He was endowed with literary gifts of a high order, had a keen critical
and historical sense and wrote freely and convincingly in support of his own views and in generous
recognition of the ideals of his contemporaries. Many of his swans, to be sure, proved later
to be geese, and it is debatable how much good was done by his rhapsodic praise to young Brahms;
whether in fact he did not set before the youngster a chimerical ideal impossible of attainment.
Schumann early came under the influence of Jean Paul Richter, that incarnation of German Romanticism,
whom he placed on the same high plane as Shakespeare and Beethoven. An intimate appreciation
of much that is fantastic and whimsical in Schumann is possible only through acquaintance with
the work of this Jean Paul. Schumann's first compositions were for the pianoforte--in fact
his original ambition[190] was to be a pianoforte virtuoso--and to-day his permanent significance
depends on the spontaneity in conception and the freedom of form manifested in these pianoforte
works and in his romantic songs. Here we have the "ipsissimus Schumann," as von Bülow so well
remarks. Schumann's pianoforte style is compounded of two factors: first, his intensely subjective
and varied imagination which, nourished by the love of Romantic literature, craved an individual
mode of expression; second, a power of concentration and of organic structure which was largely
derived from a study of Bach and of the later works of Beethoven. Schumann saw that the regularity
of abstract form, found in the purely classical writers, was not suited to the full expression
of his moods and so he worked out a style of his own, although in many cases this was simply
a logical amplification or modification of former practice. In his pianoforte compositions,
then, we find a striking freedom in the choice of subject, which is generally indicated by
some poetically descriptive title, e.g., Waldscenen, Nachtstücke, Fantasiestücke, Novelletten,
Kreisleriana, Humoreske, etc. The danger in this form of subject matter is that it often degenerates
into sentimentality coupled with a corresponding spinelessness of structure. This danger Schumann
avoids by a style noticeable for terseness and structural solidity. His effort was to give
significance to every note; all verbiage, meaningless scale passages and monotonous arpeggios
were swept away, while the imagination was aroused by the bold use of dissonances and by the
variety of tone-color. A thoroughly novel feature was the flexibility of the rhythm, which
breaks from the old "sing-song" metres and abounds in syncopations, in contrasted accents,
and in subtle combinations of metrical groups; every effort being made to avoid the tyranny
of the bar-line.

[Footnote 190: Because of an unfortunate accident to one of his fingers this ambition, however,
had to be abandoned. The world thereby gained a great composer.]

Schumann's career was peculiar in that, beginning as a pianoforte composer, he tried successively
every other form as well--the song, chamber music, works for orchestra, and for orchestra with
solo voices and chorus--and won distinction to a greater or less degree in every field save
that of the opera. Notwithstanding the beauty of poetic inspiration enshrined in the four symphonies,
a grave defect is the quality of orchestral tone which greets the ear, especially the modern
ear accustomed to the many-hued sonority of Wagner, Tchaikowsky, Debussy and others. These
symphonies have been called "huge pieces for four hands" which were afterwards orchestrated,
and the allegation is not without truth, as real orchestral glow and brilliancy is so often
lacking. Each one, however, has notable features, e.g., the sublime Adagio of the 2d, and the
touching Romanza of the 4th, and each is worthy of study; for Schumann in certain aspects furnishes
the best avenue of approach to the modern school. In the Fourth Symphony he obliterates the
pauses between the movements and fuses them all together; calling it a Symphony "in einem Satze"
and anticipating the very same procedure that Schönberg follows in his String Quartet which
has had recent vogue. Schumann's chief contribution to the development of the German Song lay
in the pianoforte part, which with Schubert and Mendelssohn might properly be called an accompaniment,
however rich and varied. But in Schumann the pianoforte attains to a real independence of style,
intensifying in the most subtle and delicate way every shade of poetic feeling in the text.
In fact, it is often used to reveal some deep meaning beyond the expressive power of words.
This is seen in the closing measures of "Moonlight" where the voice ceases in suspense, and
the instrument completes the eloquence of the message. Schumann's great achievement as a literary
man was his founding, in 1834, of the Neue Zeitschrift für Musik, to which he himself contributed
many stimulating and suggestive essays, opposing with might and main the Philistinism which
so pervaded the music of his time. He even established an imaginary club, called the Davidsbund,
to storm the citadel of Philistia.

The best eulogy of Schumann is the recognition that many of the tendencies in modern music,
which we now take for granted, date from him: the exaltation of freedom and fancy over mere
formal presentation, the union of broad culture with musical technique, and the recognition
of music as the art closest in touch with the aspirations of humanity. He was an idealist with
such perseverance and clearness of aim that his more characteristic work can never die.

DES ABENDS.

The Fantasiestücke[191], op. 12, of which this piece is the first, amply justify their title,
for they abound in soaring thoughts, in fantastic, whimsical imaginings and in novel modes
of utterance and structure. Every number of the set is a gem, In der Nacht being perhaps the
most poetic of Schumann's short pieces for the pianoforte. They are thoroughly pianistic and
evoke from the instrument all its possibilities of sonority and color. In point of texture
they illustrate that happy combination, which Schumann worked out, of lyric melodies on a firmly
knit polyphonic basis. They are also programmistic in so far as Schumann believed in music
of that type. There is no attempt to tell a detailed story or to have the music correspond
literally to definite incidents. The titles merely afford a verbal clue to the general import
and atmosphere of the music. Thus in regard to the piece under consideration, the mere mention
of eventide is supposed to be enough to stimulate thought in any one with a sensitive imagination,
and the music is a suggestive expression of Schumann's own intimate reveries. The piece is
in extended two-part form--each part repeated--and rounded out with an eloquent Coda. The rhythmic
scheme is of particular significance for it illustrates not only the composer's fondness for
inventing new combinations, but, as well, suggests most delicately the mood of the piece. It
would evidently be false art to write a piece, entitled Evening, in a vigorous, arousing rhythm,
such as might be associated with a noon-day sun, when we often see the heat-waves dancing over
the fields. On the other hand Schumann, by a subtle blending of triple time in the main upper
melody and duple time in the lower, suggests that hazy indefiniteness appropriate to the time
of day when the life of Nature seems momentarily subsiding and everything sinking to rest, e.g.

[Music]

In many measures of the second part (i.e., 21-24) the accent is so disguised that it seems
as if we were in a twilight revery, quite apart from matters of time and space.

[Footnote 191: As the music is readily procurable the student should make himself familiar
with the entire set.]

WARUM?

This piece is a happy illustration of the intensity of meaning and the conciseness of structure
which Schumann gained by the application of polyphonic imitation. It is difficult to say exactly
what Warum signifies. It was characteristic of the Romantic unrest of the German mind to question
everything--especially "Why am I not more happy in love?" The motto may be considered a Carlyle-like
"everlasting why." At any rate the composition is an example of music speaking more plainly
than words; for no one can fail to recognize the haunting appeal in the theme with its long-drawn
out final note after the upward leap. It is a real musical question, e.g.

[Music]

Grillen, the next piece in the set, deserves careful study. It is too long to present as a
whole, but we cite the middle part (See Supplement No. 52) as it is such a convincing example
of syncopated effect (i.e., the persistent placing of the accent on weak beats), and of elasticity
in the metric scheme.

Novellette in E major.

This piece illustrates the vigor and massiveness of Schumann's pianoforte style. Note the sonority
gained by the use of widely spaced chords. For the brilliant effect demanded, there should
be a liberal use of the damper pedal.[192] We likewise find, beginning with the third brace,
some characteristic polyphonic imitations which give to the movement a remarkable concentration.
In the middle contrasting portion it seems as if Schumann had taken a leaf out of Chopin's
book--a beautiful, lyric melody floating on an undercurrent of sonorous, arpeggio chords. The
theme is presented in dialogue form, first in the upper voice, next in an inner voice and finally
in the bass. (See Supplement No. 53.)

[Footnote 192: A beautiful contrast may be made by playing the section in F major with the
"una corda" pedal throughout.]

SONG, Mondnacht.

No estimate of Schumann would be fair or comprehensive without some mention of his songs; upon
which, together with his pianoforte compositions, his immortality tends more and more to rest.
Notwithstanding the many poetic and dramatic touches in Schubert's accompaniments, those of
Schumann are on the whole more finely wrought; for he had the advantage of Schubert in being,
himself, a pianist of high attainment, thoroughly versed in pianistic effects. His imagination
was also more sensitive to subtle shades of meaning in the text and he was inspired by the
wonderful lyrics of Heine, Eichendorff and Chamisso who in Schubert's day had written very
little. Special features of Schumann's songs are the instrumental preludes and postludes, the
prelude establishing just the right setting for the import of the words and the postlude commenting
on the beautiful message which the voice has just delivered. In Mondnacht, for example, (as
previously mentioned), note how the voice stops in suspense and in what an eloquent revery
the accompaniment completes the picture. (See Supplement No. 54.)

OVERTURE TO Manfred.

This Overture, the first of a set of incidental numbers which Schumann composed to illustrate
Byron's dramatic poem, represents some of his most typical inspiration, and so is well worthy
of our study. The music is labored at times, especially in the Development, and the orchestration
is often dry and stereotyped. But the conception was a powerful one, and there is a genuine
correspondence between the nature of the music and the spirit of the poem. It is evident that
the subject made a deep impression on Schumann, whose own imagination, addicted to mysterious
and even morbid broodings, was strongly akin to that of Byron's fictitious character. The composition
is program music of the subjective order, comparable to Beethoven's Coriolanus, i.e., the themes
are dramatic characterizations: the first typifying the stormy nature of Manfred; the second,
with its note of pleading, the mysterious influence over the recluse of the spirit of Astarte.
As in all works of this kind the music cannot be readily appreciated without a knowledge of
the poem which it illustrates.[193] As for the structure, Schumann clings too closely to the
Sonata-form. The music is eloquent just in proportion as he gives his fancy free rein; where
he tries to force the themes into an arbitrary mould, the result is unsatisfactory--especially
the development, which is neither very dramatic nor interesting from a purely musical point
of view. The work opens with three spasmodic syncopated[194] chords, and then follow twenty-four
measures (lento and at first pianissimo) of a preludial nature with suggestions of the Manfred
theme. The movement becomes gradually faster and more impassioned until, in measure 26, we
reach the presentation of the first theme (allegro agitato) which, with its frequent syncopations,
is characteristic of Manfred's restless nature. The transition begins in measure 39; at first
with a repetition of the main theme, which soon modulates to F-sharp minor, in which key the
second theme enters, in measure 51. This theme--in three portions--seems to embody different
aspects of the feminine influence of Astarte. The first portion, measures 51-61, with its undulating,
chromatic outline, may be said to typify the haunting apparition so real to Manfred's imagination
and yet so intangible; the second, 62-67, contains a note of impassioned protest, and the third,
68-77, is a love message of tender consolation. If this interpretation seem too subjective,
a careful reading of the drama where Astarte appears (pp. 284-285 in the Everyman's Edition)
will, we believe, corroborate it. The rest of the Exposition consists in a treatment of the
Astarte motive, primarily of a musical nature; though there is a real dramatic intensity in
measures 96-103, which are an expansion of the love message with its characteristic "appoggiatura."
The Development, beginning in measure 132, is a striking example of how difficult it was--even
for an exponent of freedom in musical expression like Schumann--to break loose from the shackles
of arbitrary form. The musical thought is kept in motion, to be sure, but that is about all;
for the treatment is often very labored, and nothing is added to the dramatic picture. The
world had to await the work of Tchaikowsky, and Strauss for a satisfactory adjustment[195]
between the demands of dramatic fitness and the needs of musical structure. In the Coda, beginning
measure 258, Schumann--now that he is free from considerations of structure--gains a dramatic
effect of truly impressive power. The horns, supported by trumpets and trombones, intone a
funeral dirge of touching solemnity (evidently suggested by the closing death scene of the
drama) while, above, hover portions of the Astarte motive, as if even in his death her influence
was paramount in Manfred's imagination, e.g.

[Music]

Notwithstanding certain blemishes, this Overture at the time of its composition was a landmark
in the development of program music, and if to our modern tastes it seems a bit antiquated,
this is largely because of the great progress which has since been made.[196]

[Footnote 193: The poem is easily procured in a volume of Everyman's Library.]

[Footnote 194: These chords are an amusing example of a "paper effect," for unless you watch
the conductor's beat, it is impossible to feel the syncopation. There being no first beat proper,
the chords are syncopated against the air!]

[Footnote 195: For pertinent comments on this point see Newman's essay on Program Music, pp.
134-135, in his Musical Studies.]

[Footnote 196: In studying this work consult, if possible, the orchestral score. For those
who need a condensed two-hand arrangement, the Litolff edition is to be recommended.]

SYMPHONY IN D MINOR.

This Symphony is selected from Schumann's four, both for the peculiar romantic beauty of its
themes and because the form in which it is cast makes it an important connecting link between
the freedom of structure, instituted by Beethoven, and the Symphonic Poem of Liszt and other
modern composers. All of Schumann's symphonies contain genuine beauties and should be familiar
to the cultivated musician. Perhaps the first in B-flat major is the most sustained, and it
has a freshness and buoyancy summed up in its title, the Spring, by which it is popularly known.
The exuberance of the Finale is pure Schumann and is expressed with an orchestral eloquence
in which he was frequently lacking.[197] The Second Symphony is notable for its sublime Adagio,
Schumann's love-song--comparable to the slow movement of Beethoven's Fourth. At some future
day, conductors will have the courage to play this movement by itself like a magnificent Torso,
for indubitably the other movements have aged beyond recall. The Third Symphony, known as the
Rhenish (composed when Schumann was living at Düsseldorf on the Rhine) is significant for its
incorporation of popular melodies from the Rhineland, and for the movement, scored chiefly
for trombones and other brass instruments, which gives a picture of some ceremonial occasion
in the Cologne Cathedral.

[Footnote 197: It is more than a matter of mere chronology to realise that the D minor Symphony
was composed in the same year as the B-flat major. It was afterwards revised and published
as No. 4, but the vitality and spontaneity of its themes come from the first gush of Schumann's
inspiration.]

The Fourth Symphony is an uneven work, for there are many places where Schumann's constructive
power was unequal to his ideal conceptions. We often can see the joints, and the structure--in
places--resembles a rag-carpet rather than the organic texture of an oriental rug. But the
spontaneous outpouring of melody touches our emotions and well-nigh disarms criticism. Schumann
had constantly been striving for a closer relationship[198] between the conventional movements
of the symphony; and his purpose, in the structural treatment adopted, is indicated by the
statement published in the full score--"Introduction, Allegro, Romanze, Scherzo und Finale
in einem Satze" i.e., the work is to be considered as a continuous whole and not broken up
into arbitrary movements with rigid pauses between. The long drawn-out Introduction,[199] with
its mysterious harmonies, leads us into the land of romance, and a portion of this introduction
is happily carried over and repeated in the Romanze. The First movement proper, from Lebhaft,
seems at first as if it were to be in the customary Sonata-form; the Exposition beginning with
two themes in the normal relationship of minor and relative major, though to be sure the second
theme is more of a supplementary expansion of the first than one which provides a strong contrast.
But after the double bar and repeat, this first theme is developed in a free preludial manner
as if it were continually leading up to a climax. We are finally rewarded by a new theme of
great warmth which amply makes up for any lack of individuality in the second theme proper, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 198: We find traces of this tendency in the First Symphony, where the Slow Movement
and the Scherzo are linked together, likewise in the Second, where the motto of the first movement
is repeated at the end of the Scherzo.]

[Footnote 199: The analysis is based, as usual, on the orchestral score; for class-room study
there are excellent editions for two and four hands.]

The rest of the movement consists of additional improvisations, rather too rigidly sectionalized,
on the first theme and a second appearance of the interpolated theme. This theme, with rhythmic
modifications, serves also as the basis for the brilliant Coda; for there is no Recapitulation
proper, and it is evident that the movement is an extended prelude for what is to come--a first
portion of the work as a whole. After a dramatic pause,[200] which enhances the feeling of
expectancy (so prominent in the first movement) followed by a sustained modulatory chord, the
Romanze begins with a plaintive theme in A minor. The mood is that of an idealized serenade,
and in the original score the accompaniment for the oboe melody was given to the guitar[201]
to secure the appropriate atmosphere. After the first statement of the theme there is an interpolated
quotation of the characteristic passage from the introduction, which serves to bind the movements
together both in structure and in relationship of mood. The movement is in clear-cut three-part
form and the middle contrasting section in the major mode reveals a sustained descending melody
played by the body of strings, which is delicately embellished by an obligato variant given
to a solo violin, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 200: Concert-goers may well be reminded that there should be no applause between
the movements of this work. One of the most pernicious ideas of the public is that as soon
as the music ceases, handclapping should begin; whereas a complete silence is often the very
means the composer employs for intensifying what has been said and preparing for what is to
come. Let us ponder the cryptic remark attributed to Mozart that "the rests in music are more
important than the notes."]

[Footnote 201: This was afterwards withdrawn as impracticable. What a pity that Schumann wrote
before the harp as a member of the orchestra had come into its own. For the mood which he was
trying to establish compare the scoring of this Romanza with that in the Slow movement of Franck's
Symphony.]

At first the 'cellos, also, re-enforce this melody.

[Music]

The effect is that of an ethereal voice commenting on the beauty of the main theme. This obligato
part is of special significance, since with rhythmic change it forms the chief theme of the
Trio in the following movement. The Romanze closes with a simple return to the plaintive oboe
melody, this time in D minor. The tonality is purposely indefinite to accentuate the wistful
feeling of the movement--the last chords having the suspense of a dominant ending. After a
short pause we are at once whirled into the dashing Scherzo which seems to represent the playful
badinage of a Romantic lover. The Trio affords a delightful reminiscence of the Romanze and,
from a structural point of view, is an early example of the principle of "transformation of
theme"[202] which plays so important a role in the works of Liszt, Franck, Tchaikowsky and
Dvo[vr]ák. For the melody, e.g.,

[Music]

is a rhythmic variant of the former obligato of the solo violin, and has this characteristic,
which gives a peculiar note of surprise, that it always begins on the third beat of the measure.
Following a repetition of the Scherzo the movement ends eloquently with a coda-like return
to the Trio which, after some modulatory changes, is broken up into detached fragments, seeming
to vanish into thin air. There is no pause between the end of the Scherzo and the introduction,
based on the theme of the first movement, which ushers in the Finale. This movement is in Sonata-form
with a modified Recapitulation--i.e., the first theme is not repeated--and with a passionate
closing theme, e.g.,

[Music]

which atones for the intentional incompleteness with which the first movement ends. The main
theme is a compound of a vigorous march-like motive, closely related to one of the subsidiary
phrases of the first movement, and a running figure in the bass--the derivation of which is
obvious. After a rather labored transition[203]--surely the most mechanical passage in the
whole work--we are rewarded by a melody of great buoyancy and rhythmic life, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 202: In Brahms, who was something of a conservative as to freedom of form, there
is a striking example in the connection between the second movement and the Finale of the Third
Symphony.]

[Footnote 203: Schumann was a true poet in the spontaneity of his themes, but often an unsuccessful
architect when connecting them.]

The free Fantasie begins with a contrapuntal working-out of a figure taken from the first theme,
but it suffers from a persistent emphasis on what, after all, is an uninteresting rhythm [Music];
there is, furthermore, a rigid grouping of the phrases in twos and fours. Schumann's instinct
was a wise one in omitting the main theme of the Recapitulation and in leading, as soon as
possible, to the repetition of the delightful second theme--the gem of the movement--which
now makes its orthodox appearance in the tonic. After some ejaculatory measures, which remind
us of the beginning of the Development, we have the impassioned closing theme, referred to
above, which ushers in the free and brilliant Coda, worked up contrapuntally with ever increasing
speed. The movement ends with Schumannesque syncopations. The D minor Symphony, thus, although
not a perfect work of art, is a significant one and repays intimate study. A long life may
safely be predicted for it by reason of the fervor and charm of its melodies. An important
historical status it will always hold, for it is the honorable ancestor of such great symphonies
as César Franck's in D minor and Tchaikowsky's in E minor, in which we find the same freedom
of form and the same fusion of material attempted by Schumann's daring spirit.[204]

[Footnote 204: For a detailed and illuminating study of this symphony and of Schumann's style
in general see the last essay in Preludes and Studies by W.J. Henderson. Another excellent
essay may be found in Studies in Modern Music by W.H. Hadow.]

Closely connected with Schumann, chronologically and also by certain executive associations,
e.g., the Leipsic Conservatory, is the career of Mendelssohn (1809-1847). There was much in
common between the two; they both were extremely versatile, of strong literary bent and naturally
drawn to the same media of expression: pianoforte, solo voices and orchestra. And yet, so dissimilar
were the underlying strains in their temperaments that their compositions, as an expression
of their personalities, show little in common. Schumann, as we have seen, was fantastic, mystical,
a bold, independent thinker, the quintessence of the Romantic spirit. Mendelssohn, on the other
hand, though not lacking in poetic fancy and warmth, was cautious--a born conservative; and
his early classical training, together with the opulent circumstances of his life, served as
a natural check upon the freedom of genius. His dazzling precocity--witness the Midsummer Night's
Dream Overture, composed while he was in his seventeenth year--and a great popular success
were surely not the best stimuli to make him delve into the depths of his imagination. Undoubtedly
he did a valuable service, in his day, in uniting the leading tendencies of the two schools:
the exuberant fancy of the Romantic, and the reserve and finish of the Classic. He has been
aptly called a "Romanticist with a classical equipment." If any appraisement be necessary to
the detriment of one or the other, it must be conceded that Schumann was the greater genius.
A just estimate of Mendelssohn's work is difficult, for his career was so meteoric and in his
life he was so overvalued that now, with the opposite swing of the pendulum, he is as often
underrated. He was assuredly a great artist, for what he had to say was beautifully expressed;
the question hinges on the actual worth of the message. With perfect finish there often goes
a lack of power and objective energy; somewhat the same difference that we feel between skillful
gardening and the free vitality of Nature. Although Mendelssohn's music delights and charms
there is a prevailing lack of that deep emotion which alone can move the soul. And yet a composer
whom Wagner called "the greatest of landscape painters" and whose best works have stood the
test of time can by no means be scorned. His descriptive Overtures for orchestra: the Hebrides,
the Midsummer Night's Dream and the Fair Melusine; his Variations Sérieuses for Pianoforte
and some of the Songs without Words[205] contain a genuinely poetic message, flawlessly expressed.
As for the pianoforte music, when the Songs without Words are called "hackneyed" we must remember
that only compositions of truly popular appeal ever have sufficient vogue to warrant the application
of this opprobrious term. In the pianoforte Scherzos and in the Rondo Capriccioso in E major
there is without doubt a vitality and a play of fancy easier to criticize than to create. The
prevalent mood in Mendelssohn's music is one of sunny-hearted lightness and emotional satisfaction;
and if this be a one-sided presentation of life, it is no more so, as Pratt well says in his
History of Music, than the picture of gloom and sorrow which certain other composers continually
emphasize. The fact that his descriptive Overtures, just mentioned, have been surpassed--owing
to the recent expansion in orchestral possibilities of tone-color--must not blind us to the
beauty of their content, or make us forget the impetus they have given to modern composers.
No one could possibly find in the Hebrides Overture that subtle descriptive fancy or that wealth
of orchestral coloring which exists in Debussy's marvellous Sea Pieces; and yet the Mendelssohn
composition is a genuine reflection of nature in terms of music and can still be heard with
sustained attention. Wagner[206] praises highly its orchestral effects; and a modern scholar,
Cecil Forsyth,[207] considers the tone-painting quite irresistible. A sincere tribute of admiration
should also be paid to Mendelssohn's Concerto for Violin and Orchestra. Written in the most
idiomatic style for the solo instrument and containing real violin melodies it is still one
of the few great works in its class. Any final critical estimate of Mendelssohn--no matter
how earnest the effort to be absolutely fair--is inevitably involved with personal prejudices.
If his music appeals to any one, it is liked extremely and no one need be ashamed of enjoying
it, for it is sincerely felt and beautifully expressed. Mendelssohn, himself, doubtless knew
perfectly well that he was not Bach, Beethoven or Schubert. For those whose natures crave a
more robust message, more fire and a deeper passion, there are the works of those other composers
to which they may turn.

[Footnote 205: Several of these were constantly played by both Paderewski and De Pachman, two
of the greatest virtuosi of our day: surely a convincing tribute!]

[Footnote 206: See the Oxford History of Music, Vol. VI, pp. 80-84. Anyone who cares to see
what Wagner owed to Mendelssohn may compare the opening theme, and its treatment, of the Fair
Melusine Overture with the music of the Rhine Maidens in the Rheingold.]

[Footnote 207: See his treatise on Orchestration, p. 194.]

Let us now analyze the Midsummer Night's Dream Overture,[208] "his first and highest flight"
to quote Schumann. In this work we do not find a characterization by musical means of the emotions
of the dramatis personae, as in the Coriolanus Overture; and there is little specific correspondence
between the type of theme and definite incidents, except possibly at the beginning of the Recapitulation,
where the low tones of the Bass Tuba[209] may be thought to represent the snores of Bottom,
as the fairies hover about him. Anyone familiar with Shakespeare's play--and such a knowledge
is indispensible for a complete enjoyment of the music--will see that Mendelssohn's object
was to give a broad, general picture of the fairy world and to intensify, by his music, the
fancy and humor found in the play. The introductory sustained chords, pianissimo, are a happy
illustration of his deftness in tone-painting; for, assigned to the ethereal flutes and clarinets,
they constitute, as Niecks ingeniously expresses it, a "magic formula" which ushers us into
the moonlit realm of fairyland. The first theme in E minor (Allegro di molto: throughout pp
and staccato), announced by the strings, is a graphic representation of the playful antics
of the nimble elves and fairies. Its course is twice interrupted by a peculiar, prolonged chord
which seems to say, "Hush! you are listening to the activities of beings not of this every-day,
humdrum world." The first theme has a second part in E major (beginning at measure 62) of a
pompous, march-like nature, which may be thought to represent the dignity of Duke Theseus and
his train. The Overture being in complete Sonata-form, there occurs at this point a short transition
based on the rhythm of the first theme; followed by a lovely cantabile melody--the second theme
proper--that typifies the romantic love pervading the play. This theme also is expanded into
several sections; the first of which may portray the clownish Athenian tradespeople, and the
second, the brays of Bottom after he has been transformed into an ass, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 208: This is exceptionally effective in the four-hand version--in fact, it was often
played as a pianoforte duet by his sister Fanny and himself--although the real poetic effect
is inseparably connected with the orchestral treatment.]

[Footnote 209: Originally these tones were played by the Ophicleide or Serpent (now obsolete).]

The free fantasia, an improvisation on the first theme--although containing a few perfunctory
manipulations--sustains interest, as a whole, by its modulations and by the suggestive orchestral
effects. The closing measures, where the pizzicato 'cellos and double basses seem to imitate
the light, tripping footsteps of the elves, is genuinely realistic. The Recapitulation, which
begins with the same chords as the Introduction, is an illustration of bondage to classic practise;
for here they have no dramatic significance and are merely a concession to routine procedure.[210]
The first theme and the transition, however, are effectively abridged so that the second theme,
by far the most appealing in the whole work, stands out in greater prominence. Then follows
a brilliant expansion of the closing portions of the second theme, until we reach the Coda.
This begins with a reminiscence of the first theme which fades away into a modified presentation
of the Duke Theseus theme, followed by four long-drawn out Amens.[211] These may signify the
blessing which, in the play, the elves bestow upon the Ducal house. The Introductory chords
dissolve the dream which the music has evoked, and we are back once more in the world of reality.

[Footnote 210: This, after all, is a rather subtle point for a boy of seventeen to be called
upon to consider. Perhaps if he had been that kind of a boy he might not have written the Overture
at all!]

[Footnote 211: The ecclesiastical formula for an Amen being the so-called Plagal cadence of
subdominant and tonic chords.]

To suggest the attitude which we of to-day should take towards Mendelssohn--he may justly be
admired as a musician of great natural gifts, of high ideals and of unusually finished technique
in many branches of composition. It is ungracious to censure him because he lacks the gripping
emotional power of a Beethoven or a Wagner. Those who indulge in such narrow criticism condemn
only themselves.

CHAPTER XIV

CHOPIN AND PIANOFORTE STYLE

Although Chopin (1809-1849) was less aggressively romantic than others of the group we have
been considering, in many respects his music represents the romantic spirit in its fairest
bloom. Not even yet has full justice been done him--although his fame is growing--since he
is often considered as a composer of mere "salon-pieces" which, though captivating, are too
gossamer-like to merit serious attention. Chopin was a life-long student of Bach; and much
of his music, in its closeness of texture, shows unmistakably the influence of that master.
Together with Schumann, he broke away from the strict formality of the old classic forms and
instituted the reign of freely conceived tone-poems for the pianoforte: the form being conditioned
by the poetic feelings of the composer. As far as fundamental principles of architecture are
concerned, his pieces are generally simple, modeled as they are on the two and three-part form
and that of the rondo. When he attempted works of large scope, where varied material had to
be held together, he was lamentably deficient, e.g., in his Sonatas. In fact, even in such
pieces as the Études and Scherzos, in the presentation of the material we find occasional blemishes.
But there are so many other wonderful qualities that this weakness may be overlooked. In spite
of a certain deficiency in form, Chopin is indisputably a great genius. Far too much stress
has been laid on the delicacy of his style to the exclusion of the intensity and bold dramatic
power that characterize much of his music to a marked degree. Though of frail physique,[212]
and though living in an environment which tended to overdevelop his fastidious nature, Chopin
had a fiery soul, which would assert itself with unmistakable force. His music by no means
consists solely of melting moods or languorous sighs; he had a keen instinct for the dissonant
element (witness passages in the G minor Ballade); he was a daring harmonic innovator; and
much of his music is surcharged with tragic significance. A born stylist, he nevertheless did
not avoid incessant labor to secure the acme of finish. So perfect in his works is the balance
between substance and treatment, that they make a direct appeal to music-lovers of every nation.
In listening to Chopin we are never conscious of turgidity, of diffuseness, of labored treatment
of material. All is direct, pellucid; poetic thoughts are presented in a convincingly beautiful
manner. He was a great colorist as well, and in his work we must recognize the fact that color
in music is as distinct an achievement of the imagination as profound thought or beauty of
line. Chopin's position in regard to program music is an interesting subject for speculation.
Few of his works bear specifically descriptive titles; and it is well known that he had little
sympathy with the extreme tendencies of Berlioz and Liszt. Yet there is, in general, something
more than an abstract presentation of musical material, however beautiful. The varied moods
aroused by the Ballades and Nocturnes, the actual pictures we see in the Polonaises, must have
had their counterpart in definite subjective experiences in the life of the composer, and so
from a broad psychological standpoint--even in the absence of explanatory titles--we may call
Chopin a thoroughly romantic tone-poet; indeed, as Balzac says, "a soul which rendered itself
audible."

[Footnote 212: He was born of a Polish mother and a French father, and these mixed strains
of blood account fundamentally for the leading characteristics of his music. From the former
strain came the impassioned, romantic and at times chivalrous moods, prominent in all Polish
life and art; and from the latter the grace, charm and finish which we rightly associate with
the French nature. For side-lights on Chopin's intimacy with George Sand see the well-known
essays by Henry James and René Doumic.]

As Chopin composed so idiomatically for his chosen instrument, the pianoforte, to which he
devoted himself exclusively,[213] no understanding or adequate appreciation of the subtleties
of his style is possible without some knowledge of the nature and attributes of this instrument
which, in our time, has become the universal medium for the rendering of music. All of Chopin's
works were not only published for the pianoforte but were conceived in terms of the pianoforte;
his style in this respect being quite unique in the history of musical art. For there are noble
and poetically inspired thoughts of many composers which may be satisfactorily presented through
a number of media: pianoforte, organ, string-quartet or voices. This fact has been the cause
of many so-called transcriptions of orchestral or string-quartet music for the organ. A composer,
furthermore, often publishes a work for a certain instrument when the inner evidence shows
that, during the period of creation, he actually had some other medium in mind. Beethoven's
Sonatas abound[214] in effects which, for their complete realization, require an orchestra;
so that, notwithstanding the beauty of the thought, his style is often anything but pianistic.
In certain of César Franck's pianoforte works we are conscious of his predilection for the
organ, as the spirit of the music demands a sustained volume of sound which the organ, with
its powerful lungs, alone can give. But if the full beauty of Chopin's conception is to be
gained, his music must be played on the pianoforte and on nothing else. The pianoforte has,
to be sure, several limitations; it is not per se a loud instrument in comparison with a trumpet
or an organ, and the whole nature of its tone is evanescent--that is, as soon as the tone is
produced, it begins to fade away, [decrescendo symbol]. This latter apparent limitation, however,
is in fact one of its most suggestive beauties; for nothing is more stimulating to the imagination
than the dying away of a beautiful sound, as may be felt in the striking of a clear-toned bell,
or in the wonderful diminuendo of the horn. This effect, inherent in pianoforte tone, should
be more utilized rather than deplored, especially since dwelling on a delightful harmony or
a single dramatic note is a definite characteristic of "tempo rubato"--that peculiar feature
of Chopin's rhythm. The pianoforte can neither steadily sustain a tone [sustaining symbol]
nor increase it [crescendo symbol]; achievements for which the strings and the wind instruments
are so valued. On the other hand, the instrument has the merits of great sonority and marvellous
coloristic possibilities; and when music is composed for the pianoforte by one who understands
its secrets and, furthermore, when it is properly played, it is quite the finest[215] instrument
ever yet brought under the control of a single performer. Again, the pianoforte is not meant
for great rapidity of utterance, such as, for instance, we associate with the violin, the flute
or the clarinet. It is, in fact, often played too fast, sounding like a pianola or a machine
rather than an instrument with a soul. If there be no lingering over the notes, beautiful effects
have no opportunity to be heard. Rapidity and brilliance on the pianoforte do not depend on
so many notes per second but on vitality and precision of accent. These admirable qualities
of the instrument are due to the great number of vibrating metal strings (in a modern concert-grand,
about two hundred and thirty, i.e., three strings to each of the twelve notes of the seven
octaves, save for a few of the lowest bass notes); to the large sounding board (about twenty-four
square feet, on the largest model), and above all to the damper pedal which Rubinstein--so
appropriately--calls the soul of the pianoforte. The very term Pianoforte implies a wealth
of meaning; for a special glory of the instrument is its power of shading, its flexibility
of utterance, from piano to forte or vice versa. The limits themselves, to be sure, are not
so striking as in certain other instruments, e.g., the pianoforte cannot produce the almost
ghostly whisper of which the clarinet is capable, nor can it equal the trumpet or the trombone
in intensity or volume. But it can produce a very beautiful pianissimo; and if a sense of relativity
be kept, and soft effects begun quietly enough, it can be made to sound with remarkable brilliancy.
The pianoforte should always be played with a keen regard for this power of shading, of nuance;
the tones should undulate like the winds or the waves. Anything like the steady sostenuto level
for which the organ shows itself so fitted is, except for special effects, entirely foreign
to the nature of the pianoforte. Nor should we ever attempt to make it, per se, a loud, overpowering
instrument. Its forte and its brilliancy are purely relative; and, when forced to do something
unsuited to its real nature, it protests with a hard, unmelodious tone.

[Footnote 213: The few exceptions being the Polish Songs, the Trio for Violin, 'Cello and Pianoforte
and the orchestral accompaniment to the two Concertos.]

[Footnote 214: There will occur to every one numerous passages in which the pianoforte is expected
to be a kettle-drum, or where the figuration is far better suited to the violin than to the
hand in connection with keys.]

[Footnote 215: This by reason of its combined powers in melody, harmony and rhythm. Some of
these qualities it shares, to be sure, with the organ; but the organ is inherently lacking
in rhythm, and its solid, block-like tones do not exercise the same fascination upon the imagination
as do the fleeting sounds of the pianoforte. It is, of course, possible and desirable to enjoy
both instruments--each in its own proper sphere, and each for its characteristic effects.]

Likewise the two pedals,[216] when their technical names are understood, imply their own meaning,
just as their popular designations hint at the way in which they are often abused. The pedal
employed by the right foot, properly called the "damper pedal," is so named because, by its
action, all the dampers of the key-board may be raised simultaneously. This allows the strings
to vibrate together and to send forth great waves of colored sound like those produced by an
Aeolian harp; an effect similar to that heard when a sea-shell is held to the ear. The pianoforte,
in fact, has aptly been called "a harp laid on its back" to which the action of keys has been
applied. Accordingly an open, flowing style (arpeggio) is one of the idioms best suited to
its nature. To secure proper contrast, a massive, chordal style is sometimes employed by such
composers as Schumann, Brahms and Franck--even at times by Chopin himself; but that the extended
arpeggio (often merely two voices, with the body of tone secured by the pedal) is the norm
may be seen from almost any page of Chopin's compositions. The resonance and carrying power
of these waves are intensified by raising the lid[217] of the pianoforte; for then they are
brought to a focus and projected into space. The effect produced by raising the dampers is
appropriate and beautiful, not alone with consonant chords but, at times, equally with chords
that are unrelated; which, were they sustained for long by an organ, would be intolerably harsh.
But the tone of the pianoforte is so fleeting that such a mixture ensures great brilliance
and warmth without undue jargon, and is thus akin to the blending of strange colors by modern
painters. Many people, in fact, play the pianoforte with too little, rather than too much,
pedal; or with too much pedal used the wrong way! A definite attempt should be made to cultivate
a feeling for color and warmth of tone; a hard, colorless tone on the pianoforte being a great
blemish as it is so unnecessary. The following passage illustrates the above points.

[Footnote 216: It is understood that all the comments are based on the action of a concert-grand
pianoforte, since on an upright or a square--because of mechanical limitations of space--the
effects are quite different.]

[Footnote 217: In this connection, even at the risk of seeming to preach, let the advice be
given that nothing should ever be put on top of a grand pianoforte: neither flowers, afternoon
tea-sets, bird-cages, books, nor even an aquarium! For the lid is not merely a cover, but an
additional sounding-board, and must always be in readiness to be so used. The pianoforte as
a coloristic instrument, in short, is completely itself only when played with the lid raised.]

[Music: CHOPIN: Barcarolle]

There is really no such thing on the pianoforte as a "pure" single tone. It is an acoustical
law that no tone exists by itself, but always generates a whole series of overtones[218] or
"upper partials," as they are called, e.g.

[Music]

[Footnote 218: An instrument designed to reinforce these upper tones, so that they may be clearly
heard, is to be found in any Physical Laboratory. That these tones really vibrate "sympathetically"
may be proved by striking ff  this note [Music: C2 With damper pedal] and then pressing down
very lightly the keys of G and E just above middle C, thus removing the individual dampers
of these notes. In a quiet room the tones are distinctly audible. For another rewarding experiment
of the same nature, see the Introduction to the first volume of Arthur Whiting's Pedal Studies
and the well-known treatise of Helmholtz.]

Even what we call the perfectly consonant chord of C major, e.g., [Music] would be slightly
qualified and colored by the B-flat, and this effect has actually been utilized by Chopin in
the final cadence of his Prelude in F major, No. 23, e.g.

[Music]

In this example the E-flat must be very delicately accented and both pedals freely used.

Let it be clearly understood, therefore, that the damper pedal--popularly but erroneously called
the "loud pedal"--has nothing to do with "noise" as such. Its purpose is to amplify and color
the waves of sound and these waves may vary all the way from pp to ff. The dynamic gradation
of pianoforte tone is caused by the amount of force with which the hammer strikes the wires;
and this power is applied by the attack and pressure of the fingers. The damper pedal will,
to be sure, reinforce fortissimo effects, but logically it is only a means of reinforcement
and should never be used so that a mere "roar of sound" is produced. The normal pianoforte
tone, however, is that brought forth in connection with the damper pedal, and only to gain
an effect of intentional coolness and dryness do we see in pianoforte literature the direction
"senza pedal"; passages so marked being often most appropriate as a strong contrast to highly
colored ones.[219]

[Footnote 219: For a complete and illuminating treatise on the pedals and their artistic use,
see the aforesaid two volumes of Pedal Studies by Arthur Whiting (G. Schirmer, New York).]

An important adjunct of the instrument, though even less intelligently used, is the pedal employed
by the left foot; that popularly known as the "soft pedal," but of which the technical name
is the "una corda" pedal. By this device on a grand pianoforte the whole key-board is shifted
from left to right, so that the hammers strike but two wires in each group of three, and the
third wire of the set is left free to vibrate sympathetically. Thus a very etherial, magical
quality of tone is produced, especially in the upper ranges of the instrument. In the middle
register, passages played forte or fortissimo will have a richness comparable to the G string
of a violin. The effect is analogous to that of a viol d'amour which has, as is well known
(stretched underneath the strings, which produce the actual tone) a set of additional strings,
freely vibrating. Although this "una corda"[220] pedal may be used in a dynamic sense to reduce,
as it were, the size of the instrument, its chief purpose is coloristic, i.e., to make possible
a special quality of tone. This statement is proved by directions in pianoforte literature
as far back as Beethoven, in whose Sonatas we find the dynamic marks of f and ff coupled with
the proscribed use of the una corda pedal. In any case, this left-foot pedal should not be
abused; for, just because the tone quality produced thereby is so beautiful and characteristic,
it soon becomes, if constantly employed, rather cloying. The dynamic gradation of tone is primarily
a matter for the control of the fingers, i.e., the touch. The damper pedal is for sonority
and color; the una corda for special shades, and all three factors--touch and the two pedals--are
combined in pianistic effects which only a trained technique and artistic judgment can regulate.[221]

[Footnote 220: The term dates from the period when this pedal controlled three shifts: una
corda, due corde and tre corde; the hammer striking respectively one, two or three strings.
The whole mechanism is well implied in the German word Verschiebung, i.e., the shoving along--so
frequent in Schumann's works, e.g., the middle part of his Vogel als Prophet from the Waldscenen,
op. 82, No. 7.]

[Footnote 221: American pianofortes also have a middle pedal called the "sustaining pedal,"
by which tones in the lower register may be prolonged. It has not proved to be of great value,
though there are occasional passages, e.g., the closing measures of the second movement of
César Franck's Violin Sonata, where it may be effectively employed.]

Even a slight analysis of Chopin's style proves that it is based upon logical inferences, drawn
from the series of overtones as they are generated and reinforced by the very nature of the
pianoforte. From the wide spacing of the lower tones of the series Chopin derived the extended
grouping of his arpeggios, e.g.,

[Music]

[Music: Prelude, No. 19]

so that the chord of the 10th, instead of the former grouping within the octave, may be considered
the basis of his harmonic scheme. By this means a great gain was made in richness and sonority.
Another striking feature of Chopin's style is found in those groups of spray-like, superadded
notes with which the melody is embellished. It is evident, in many cases at least, that these
tones are not merely embroidery in the ordinary sense. Rather do they represent a reinforcement
of the overtones, ideally or actually present, in connection with bass tones and chords used
in the lower part of the musical fabric. As a striking example[222] see the long series of
descending non-harmonic tones in the Coda of the B major Nocturne, op. 9, No. 3, and note the
delicate colors in the closing arpeggio chord (to be played with a free use of both pedals).

[Footnote 222: For a commentary on this passage see D.G. Mason's essay on Chopin in The Romantic
Composers.]

[Music]

In general, Chopin's style is homophonic--wondrous lyric melodies which seem to float on waves
of richly colored sound. But there is also much subtly used polyphony, i.e., delightful phrases
in inner voices and imitative effects between the different parts. In comparison, however,
with Schumann's style (which is largely on a polyphonic basis) Chopin is a decidedly homophonic
composer.[223] A great deal of interesting and instructive reading on Chopin is available and
the following works are especially recommended: Chopin, the Man and his Music by Huneker; the
Life of Chopin by Niecks; the essay on Chopin in Mason's Romantic Composers and in Hadow's
Studies in Modern Music; the volume on Chopin by Elié Poirée in the series Les Musiciens Célèbres;
and the same by Louis Laloy in the series Les Maîtres de la Musique; the Life by Liszt (well
known and most valuable as coming from a contemporary and brother musician); finally a somewhat
rhapsodic essay by H.T. Finck in Chopin and Other Essays.

[Footnote 223: For a detailed analysis of many special features of style see the volume by
Edgar Stillman Kelly, Chopin the Composer.]

We select, as being thoroughly representative, the following works for comment: the first Prelude,
the A-flat major Étude, the F-sharp minor Mazurka, the E-flat minor Polonaise, the Barcarolle
and the C-sharp minor Scherzo.[224]

[Footnote 224: To save space, no one of these pieces except the Barcarolle is given in the
Supplement, since they are readily accessible. The Barcarolle, however, is given in order to
make it better known; for although it is one of the most inspired and beautifully expressed
of all Chopin's works, it is heard comparatively seldom. The best editions of the works are
those of Kullak, Mikuli and Klindworth.]

PRELUDE IN C MAJOR, OP. 28, NO. 1.

This Prelude, the first of the set of 24, is an excellent example of the sonority Chopin gained
from widely extended chords in the bass; by the use--characteristically bold--of dissonances
(measures 13-20), and by the sensuous richness of the closing measures, in which a wonderful
wave of sound is produced through the damper pedal, in connection with the blending of the
tonic, dominant and subdominant chords. The prelude is a kind of intensified Bach and may well
be compared with that prelude in the same key which begins the immortal well-tempered Clavichord.
All the Preludes, for their poetic import, finished style and pianistic effect, are masterpieces
of the first rank. Schumann well says of them: "They are sketches, eagle's feathers, all strangely
intermingled. But in every piece we recognize the hand of Frédéric Chopin; he is the boldest,
the proudest poet-soul of his time."

ÉTUDE IN A-FLAT MAJOR, OP. 25, NO. 1.

This étude, deservedly popular, may be considered the example par excellence of Chopin's style.

MAZURKA IN F-SHARP MINOR, OP. 6, NO. 1.

As Franz Liszt says in his life of Chopin, "The Mazurka is not only a dance, it is a national
poem, and like all poems of conquered nations, is shaped so as to let the blazing flames of
patriotic feeling shimmer out through the transparent veil of popular melody." The chief peculiarity
of the Mazurka (which is always in triple rhythm, with a latitude in speed from Presto to Mesto)
is the scheme of accentuation--the normal accent on the first beat being systematically transferred
to the second and third beats. We also find in the Mazurka frequent indications for the use
of the so-called "tempo rubato," a proper conception of which is so essential in the performance
of Chopin's music. Tempo rubato--so often abused!--literally meaning borrowed time, is simply
free rhythm emancipated from rigid, scholastic bonds. As Huneker well says, "Chopin must be
played in curves" with emotional freedom; just as the heart, when excited, increases the speed
of its pulsations, and in moments of calm and depression slows down. The jerky, really unrhythmical
playing of certain performers reminds us of a person suffering from palpitation of the heart.

POLONAISE IN E-FLAT MINOR, OP. 26, NO. 11.

The Polonaise[225] is the great national dance of the Poles; an impassioned and yet stately
pageant in which, as Liszt says, "The noblest traditional feelings of ancient Poland are represented."
This dance--or rather, processional march--is always in triple rhythm and based on a definite
rhythmic formula: either [Music] or [Music]. The frequent feminine endings are also a characteristic
feature, e.g., the cadence in the well known military Polonaise in A major:

[Music]

To return to the example being considered,--it is in Three-part form (A, B, A, with Coda) the
first part in the minor mode; the second part beautifully contrasted by being in B major--introduced
by the implied enharmonic change from E-flat to D-sharp. This first part, remarkable for its
passionate, headlong impetuosity, should dispel any idea that Chopin was a weak sentimentalist.
Although of a delicate constitution he certainly had a fiery soul. The second part, sotto voce--note
the feminine endings--reminds us of the muffled music of a military band as it passes by.

[Footnote 225: For an account of its origin see the chapter in Huneker's book and the article
on the Polonaise in Grove's Dictionary.]

BARCAROLLE IN F-SHARP MAJOR, OP. 60.

