My kind Amerrycain aquaintance--I musn't call him frend tho' he is so werry free and social
with me, for I hopes I knos my propper place--has giwen me a long acount of his week at Brighton.
It seems as he was in grate luck, for it was Brighton Race Week, and he is good enuff to say
that, whatever diffrent opinyons the men of other countries may find in regard to the warious
customs and manners of our grate but rayther rum nashun, they all agrees, with one acord, that
a English race-course is the prettyest and nicest thing of the sort that the hole world can
show. I rayther thinks as he dropt his money there, but it couldn't have bin werry much, for
it didn't have the least effeck on his good temper. It seems as he got interdooced to some
sillybrated pusson who rites in papers and seemed to kno everythink, but wot he wanted to kno
was if I coud tell him what caused his werry bad indijeshun, to which I at once replied, without
a moment's hesitashun, that it was probberbly owing to his being, wich he told me he was, a
sort of relashun of a real Common Councilman of the Grand old Citty of London! at which he
larfed quite hartily and said, "Bravo, Mr. ROBERT, that's one to you!"

He arterwards arsked me for the werry best place to go to, where he coud have jest about a
few hours quiet refleckshun all to hisself without not nothink to disturb him; so I sent him
to Marlow, gentlemanly Marlow, if you please, with a letter to my old friend BILL the Fisherman,
and there, he told me arterwards, he had sich a luvly day of it as he never rememberd having
afore. He sat for fours ours in a luvly Punt, in a bewtifool drizzlin rain, with lots of fish
a biting away, but he was much too much engaged to pay the least atenshun to 'em, and there
wasn't not noboddy to bother him; so he sat there, and thort out about the most himportentest
ewent of his life; and when I waited upon him at the "Grand Hotel" arterwards, I don't think
as I ewer seed a reel Gent, as he suttenly is, in such jolly good sperrits. So, seeing how
werry successfool I had been, I wentured to say to him,--"And now, Sir, if you wants to see
gentlemanly Marlow in quite another aspic, and one that estonishes and delites all as sees
it, just take the 9:45 train from Paddington next Sunday, and, drectly you gets there, go at
wunce to the Lock, and there, for ours and ours you will see sitch a sight of most ravishing
bewty, combined with helegance and hart, as praps no other spot in all the hole world can show!
Why, Sir," I said, "every time as the full Lock opens its yawning gates, at the command of
one of the principel hofficers of the Tems Conserwancy, you will think of the Gates of Parrydice
a hopening for a excurshun of hundreds of the most bewtifoollest Angels as ginerally lives
there!" "Why, Mr. ROBERT," says the Amerrycain, "your henthusiasm xcites my curosity, and I'll
suttenly go, and," he added, with almost a blushing smile, "I rayther thinks as I'll take a
companion with me."

And off he went on the follering Sunday, and didn't git back till seven o'clock to dinner,
and his fust words to me was,--"Mr. ROBERT, you didn't in the least xagerate the bewty of the
scene as you sent me for to see--it was as strange and as lovely as a Faery Tail! I wasn't
at all surprised to see what Swells there was among 'em, and what werry particklar attentions
they paid to 'em, cos I reklek how My Lord RANGDULF CHURCHILL slected that particklar spot,
on henny particklar fine Sunday, to seek that werry welcome and much wanted change from his
sewere Parlementary dooties, as he used wen he were ere among us to rekquire, for I guess as
there ain't sitch a sight to be seen not nowheres else so well calklated to brighten a pore
feller up who's jest about done up with reel hard work." I didn't quite understand what made
my Amerrycain smile quite so slily as he finished his rayther long speech, but he most certenly
did, and then set to work at his dinner.

He arterwards told me as how as he means to pay a wisit, when the season begins, to our new
Hotel at Monty Carlo, sumwheres in France, and try his new system at the Tables, and if he
suckseeds, as he knows he shall, he will, praps, sum day tell me his secret, and then I shall
have to ask my gentlemanly Manager here to let me have a few weeks there, and then I shan't
want to do any more waiting! What a prospeck!

ROBERT.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CANADIAN "SEARCH-LIGHT."

(A SONG OF SINCERE SYMPATHY.)

AIR--"THE SLAVE IN THE DISMAL SWAMP."

  In dark fens of the Dismal Swamp
    The Search-Light sends its ray!
  What is that hideous oozy tramp?
  What creatures crawling 'midst jungle damp
    Scuttle from light away?

  Revealing radiance shine, oh shine,
    Through black bayou and brake,
  Where knotted parasites intertwine,
  And through the tangles of poisonous vine
    Glideth the spotted snake.

  Where hardly a human foot would pass,
    Or an honest heart would dare
  The quaking mud of the foul morass,
  With rank weed choked, and with clotted grass,
    Fit for a reptile's lair.

  They dread the light, do those dismal things,
    Its gleam they dare not face.
  Their snaky writhings, their bat-like wings,
  Their quaking menace of fangs and stings
    Make horror of the place.

  All things should be so bright and fair
    In a land so glad and free;
  But the Search-Light layeth dark secrets bare,
  And shows how loathsomeness builds a lair
    In a land of Liberty.

  Push on, brave bearer of piercing Light,
   Through pestilential gloom,
  Where crawls the spawn of Corruption's night!
  Deal out, stout searcher, to left and right,
    The cleansing strokes of doom.

  That fair lithe form in that fleet frail bark
    Is a comely Nemesis,
  Before whose menace 'tis good to mark
  The reptile dwellers in dens so dark
    Driven with growl and hiss.

  The saurian huge and the lizard slow,
    Foul shapes of ruthless greed,
  And the stealthy snake of the sudden blow,
  All owl-like shrink from the Search-Light's glow,
    Or fly with felon speed.

  Corruption's spawn must be chased and slain,
    Scourged from the wholesome earth.
  It clingeth else like the curse of CAIN.
  Smite, smite like flail upon garnered grain,
    These things of bestial birth!

       *       *       *       *       *

OLD DOGGEREL RE-DRESSED.

(AFTER READING CERTAIN CRITICISMS ON CERTAIN NOVELISTS, CERTAIN COMMENTS ON THOSE CRITICISMS,
AND CERTAIN REJOINDERS TO THOSE COMMENTS.)

  Little novelists have little critics,
   Like little gnats, to bite 'em;
  Those little critics have lesser critics,
   And so ad infinitum!

       *       *       *       *       *

LINES BY A LEWISHAM WITLER.

  The PENN is mightier than the sword--
    Of any Red-Rad whipster.
  I said he'd win--doubted my word;
    But I'm the O.K. tipster.
  Rads roughed on me and called me "Bung;"
    I've bunged them up--a corker--
  At the result their heads they hung.
    They whip the Witler? Walker!
  We're the PENN-holders. For their man
    That One-Six-Nine-Three nicked him,
  Witlers warmed up "Old Warmingpan;"
    PENN gave him odds, and licked him.
  "Villadom" did its duty--game;
    Rads jeered it; that's their mania.
  Lewisham? No, we'll change the name,
    And call it--PENN-Sylvania!

       *       *       *       *       *

TIP BY A TORY.--The Star, talking of "HODGE's Political Salvation," says that Mr. GLADSTONE
has given the Liberal country programme in a sentence. I will give it in a word. It is all
"Hodge-podge!"

       *       *       *       *       *

UNATTRACTIVE COMBINATION.--If a young woman is "fast," and uncommonly ugly, wouldn't she make
a great mistake were she to combine the two qualities, and be "fast-'idious"?

       *       *       *       *       *

NAME FOR A CERTAIN SECTION OF THE ILLUSTRATED PRESS.--The Nude Journalism.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COQUETTE OF THE PERIOD.

  You vowed you loved me, but your eyes
    Said just the same to dozens,
  The music of your low replies,
    Was heard by several cousins.
  Forgive me if I could not cope,
    With charms so comprehensive;
  And scarce believed a love whose scope,
    Was really too extensive.

  The fashion of the age you'll say,
    But I've a predilection
  For girls who in the olden way
    Retain one man's affection.
  You favoured me with witching smiles,
    You gave me frequent dances;
  But other men that I wished miles
    Away, enjoyed your glances.

  Man loves as men loved in old times,
    And as in legends hoary,
  We celebrate a maid in rhymes,
    Is that too old a story?
  But still man loves one girl alone,
    And flies when he discovers--
  That she he thought was all his own,
    Has half a dozen lovers.

  You sighed and said that you felt hurt,
    And prettily you pouted,
  When anybody called you flirt,
    A fact I never doubted.
  And yet such wheedling ways you had,
    Man yielded willy-nilly;
  And half your swains were nearly mad,
    And all of us were silly.

  Youth's first illusions fly apace,
    And now one man confesses
  He scarcely can recal your face,
    Or colour of your dresses.
  And whether you were false or true,
    Or what fate followed after,
  Remembrance only keeps of you
    The echo of your laughter.

       *       *       *       *       *

PROVERBIAL PRAYER FOR A PAUPER-HATING BUMBLE.--Give me neither poverty nor Ritchies!

       *       *       *       *       *

A CREDITABLE INCIDENT IN THE NEXT WAR.

(AN ADVANCE SHEET FROM MR. PUNCH'S PROPHETIC HISTORY OF EUROPE.)

    ["Italy is bound to maintain abroad the appearance of a great
    and rich country, while at home she ought to conduct herself
    as if in straitened circumstances."--Daily Paper.]

The Italian Army had been completely victorious. There was but one drawback to the entire satisfaction
of the Commander-in-Chief--one of his favourite Generals was under arrest, and was being tried
by court-martial. The accused had refused the assistance of Counsel, and had insisted upon
pleading "Guilty."

"But," urged the Commander-in-Chief, "you surely have some excuse. To sack a private house
belonging to your own countryman was unpardonable. It was an aimless piece of Vandalism! For
your own reputation--for the sake of your ancestors--on behalf of your descendants--some explanation
should be afforded."

"Surely this is no time for levity," murmured a Warrior-Journalist, who was suspected of combining
with the duties of a hero the labours of a Special Correspondent for a Roman journal.

"Do I look like a jester?" asked the Prisoner; and then he added, "My brave companions, it
is for the honour of our country--to conceal her poverty from the sneers of foreigners--that
I carry with me the secret of my action to the family vault. Press me no further--see, I am
ready for the firing-party!"

There was nothing further to be said, and the little procession made its way to the Barrack
Square. The Prisoner shook hands warmly with his Judges, and with the weeping soldiery who
were to act as his executioners. "I will give the words of command myself. Ready--present--"

"Stop!"

An aged man had approached the group. He was out of breath with running. The firing-party paused,
and lowered their rifles.

"Do not listen to him!" shouted the Accused. "And if he will not desist, shoot him too--shoot
us both."

"You exceed your duties, Sirrah," said the Commander-in-Chief, with some severity--for discipline
was strict in the Italian Army. "It is for me to command, not you!" The Prisoner lowered his
head at the just reproof, and then his superior officer continued, "Why do you ask us to desist?"

"Because the Prisoner is innocent. He acted from the best of motives. I was the proprietor
of the shop he sacked, and I (for, after all, I am a patriot) demand his pardon!"

"You!" exclaimed the Commander-in-Chief. "Surely you ought to be the last to urge such a plea.
We do not know what your shop contained, but presume that the contents was your property."

"You are right in the presumption," acquiesced the aged man; "but these documents will show
that he was right, from a military point of view, to sack my shop."

The Commander-in-Chief hastily glanced at the papers, and with a thrill of pleasure, ordered
his favourite General to be released.

"This mystery must never be revealed," he murmured. And it never would, had not the hero-journalist
printed the story. Thus it was that the tale became international property. Now it is known
all the world over that the General sacked a shop to obtain the arms and accoutrements of the
Italian Army. But it is still (comparatively) a secret that the proprietor of the establishment
carried on on the premises the business of a pawnbroker!

       *       *       *       *       *

COMPULSORY GREEK;

OR, BYRON UP TO DATE.

(A BRITISH BOY'S VIEW ON A BURNING QUESTION.)

  Compulsory Greek! Compulsory Greek!
    Though "burning SAPPHO loved and sung,"
  Why in Greek shackles should they seek
    To bind the British schoolboy's tongue?
  Eternal bores, that Attic set,
  But, heaven be thanked, we'll "chuck" them yet.

  "The Scian and the Teian Muse"
    Ruled us as tyrants absolute;
  Now even pedagogues refuse
    To stodge us with such stale old fruit.
  Why should the STANLEY-dowered West
  Make the Anabasis a test?

  They teach us about Marathon,
    But what is Marathon to me?
  Tell me of fights still going on,
    Men "rightly struggling to be free;"
  Nay, I find interest much more brave in
  The mill 'twixt Thingummy and SLAVIN.

  Oh, feed me not on mythic lore,
    But Science and the modern Fact,
  Teach me Electric Fires to store,
    The difference 'twixt "Bill" and "Act."
  Why should a Cockney care a "cuss"
  For HOMER or for ÆSCHYLUS?

  For who are they? But what art thou,
    My Country? On thy fertile shore
  The heroic lyre is tuneless now;
    To scheme for dividends, dig for ore,
  These are the things we hold divine,
  Not HOMER's long-resounding line.

  If you would make a splendid name
    Amidst a lucre-loving race,
  You must be in god Mammon's game,
    And hustle for a foremost place.
  What do we want with poets here?
  For Greece a snub, for Greek a sneer!

  Must we still pore o'er classic text
    Because our simple fathers said
  It made "a gentleman"? What next?
    Let the dead languages stay dead!
  Hooray for Fact and Rule of Three!
  Compulsory Greek is fiddle-de-dee.

  Place me on Stock Exchange's steep
    With nought to do but sell and buy
  To Bull and Bear we need not keep
    Our classics up; that's all my eye.
  Ho! for the Factory, Mart, and Mine
  The toils of Greek our souls decline.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

SOLOMON PELL IN ALL HIS GLORY.

A DICKENSIAN DREAM AT PLYMOUTH.

"Boy!" cried Mr. SOLOMON PELL, in the tones of a severe Stentor. The small Boy with the Big
Blue Bag responded promptly with a deferential "Yussir."

"Listen!" pursued Mr. PELL, with dignity. And he read with emphatic elocution from some closely-printed
columns in the Times, interjecting exclamatory comments from time to time.

"'When we remember the importance of the work daily intrusted to Solicitors (Important, indeed!),
and the amount of industry (Quite so!), judgment (Exactly!), learning (I believe you!), and
integrity (Why, cert'n'ly!), it involves, and the responsibility which is necessarily incurred
by them in advising, not only in public and political matters, but in all the details of private
transactions, the dealings with property, and matters affecting not only the purses, but the
honour and reputation (Ah!!!), of the members of the community (Well, and pointedly put, Boy!),
and when we remember, in addition, what a powerful and (on the whole) respected body they are
(I should think so!)--a body, too, consisting not merely of a "fortuitous concourse of atoms"
(I should say not, indeed! Fancy me being a mere "atom," or fortuitous!) ("Please, Sir, I can't;"
interjected the Boy with the Bag)--each going his own way, and seeking his own interest, but
bound together, as the great bulk of its members are, and organised by means of this great
Society, and of the kindred societies scattered over the country, and acting in harmony with
it--it seems most surprising (Surprising? Astounding, Sir!) that so little in the way of dignity
and reward can be looked forward to by the Solicitor, however honestly, ably, and conscientiously
he may perform the arduous and responsible duties of his profession.'"

Mr. PELL here paused, and panted, like one who comes to the surface after a deep-sea dive.
Then he pursued:--

"There, Boy! That is from the opening speech of the President of the Incorporated Law Society
at Plymouth! And excellent it is,--though perhaps a little long-winded. As a mere sentence,
a sinuous sequence of words, a 'breather' in syllables, an exercise in adjectives, it cuts
the record and takes the cake. But look, Boy, at the sound common-sense of it! Since the famous,
if flattering, remarks--concerning Me!--of my late friend, the ex-Lord-Chancellor, who said--nay,
swore, that 'the country ought to be proud of me,' I have met with no observations concerning
our Profession which so commend themselves to my judgment."

"Oh, please Sir, yussir, right you are, Sir!" jerked out the Boy with the Bag.

"Right Mr. MELMOTH WALTERS is," corrected Mr. PELL, severely. "I knew it would come, Boy, and
it has. Though it has taken time, it has taken time. Listen yet further, and don't fidget with
that Bag!

"'I contend (He contends!) that it is the duty of the State to provide due recognition of merit
in the ranks of a Profession which has been set apart (Dedicated, as it were, like a--like
a--sort of a scapegoat--ahem! no, not that, exactly, either, but--a--you know, Boy, you know!),
and regulated (Just a leetle too much, perhaps) by it, from which so much is expected, and
to which so much is confided.'

"Splendid! My sentiments to a touch! Sir, that Blue Bag is a Temple of Sacred Secrets, and
should be a shrine of Open Honour. (Must make a note of that for my next speech at the Forum!)
'Sir SOLOMON PELL' would not sound badly, eh, Boy?"

"Oh, please Sir, yussir--I mean, no, Sir, fur from it, Sir--fur from it!"

"And yet the Bar gets all the honours, and most of the emoluments, whilst the Blue Bag, too
often, is sent empty away. Is it just? Is it judicious? What says once again the Plymouth oracle?

"'I ask whether it is wise or prudent on the part of the State to leave unnoticed and disregarded
the higher aspirations and ambitions of a large and useful and powerful class of the community?'

"No, Sir--a thousand times no! Let our 'higher aspirations' be considered. Some of us have
souls above six-and-eightpence, and yearnings beyond bills of costs. Let 'em be gratified, Boy!"

"Oh, please Sir, yussir: let 'em! Immediately--if not sooner, Sir!"

"By the State--with a capital S! If a soldier may carry a Field Marshal's bâton in his knapsack,
why, why should not a Solicitor carry a Baronetcy in his Blue Bag?"

"And Ekker answers, 'Why?' Sir."

"I beg your pardon, Boy, it is the Times, not the Echo, which so answers. The Times says:--

"'They (Solicitors) are the guardians of our dearest (yes, our dearest) interests, the confidants
of family secrets, the arbiters in family controversies, and not infrequently the custodians
of the honour and the good name of their clients.'

"Quite so. Why, Boy, did we let out the Secrets of the Blue Bag, the contents of Old Nick's
Sack, which that 'stupid old snuff-colour'd son of a gun,' Saint Medard 'cut into slits on
the Red Sea shore' would be nothing to 'em!"

"Nothink at all, Sir; nothink, wotsomedever!"

"No matter--a time will come, Boy! In Mr. WILLIAM MELMOTH WALTERS's speech I see the dawn of it.

"'The Profession, it is true, does not receive in any great measure those official dignities
and rewards which the President claims on its behalf, nor are we quite confident that, if it
did, the fact would increase the confidence or the respect of its clients.'

"Well, the Times may not be 'quite confident.' I am! And so would the clients be, I'm sure.
Remove that Blue Bag, Boy! Wonder what Mr. Pickwick's opinion of Mr. WALTERS's speech would
have been, and that of the Wellers, father and son! [Sings.

  "I'll place it in the hand of my Solicitors;
    I'll have this thing put right.
        We may make money,
        But--isn't it funny!--
    Few 'dignities' Solicitors delight!"

    [Left considering it.

       *       *       *       *       *

FROM DARKEST AFRICA.

  Mrs. SHELDON is back from her travels abroad.
    Were she only a man, we should hail her as manly!
  As it is, there are some who, in wishing to laud,
    Are accustomed to call her the feminine STANLEY.
  But now this adventurous, much-daring she
    Through such perils has gone, and so gallantly held on,
  In time that's to come Mr. STANLEY may be
    Merely known to us all as the male Mrs. SHELDON!

       *       *       *       *       *

MOTTO FOR THE OPPONENTS OF CAPITAL PUNISHMENT.--No noose is good news! (But what will grim
Lord GRIMTHORPE say?)

       *       *       *       *       *

The Cheapest Insurance Office must be the Fee-nix.

       *       *       *       *       *

STORICULES.

II.--THE BACK-VIEW.

The boy had gone out to get change.

I was waiting in the studio, listening to the photographer. He was in quite a small way of
business, and no one would have expected him to have any change for anything. I was sitting
on a rustic stile, with a Greek temple and some wilted Spiræas in the background. He was in
the dark room, busy, splashing liquids about, and reminiscent. I still believe that he thought
the time of waiting would seem shorter to me if he talked. The whole place seemed to suggest
financial difficulties, and smelt of chemicals.

"You remember the Punyer case?" he asked. His voice sounded thin and far-off through the closed
door of the dark room.

I did. PUNYER had been a cashier, and had absconded with rather more than the usual amount.

"Well, I had some dealings with PUNYER. As a cashier he was certainly dishonest, but as a man
he was absolutely reliable, and nothing would induce him to break his word. I know that to
be a fact from my personal experience of the man; indeed, it was through me that he was identified--or,
rather, through one of my photographs."

"Really?"

"Yes. On the day that he absconded, a four-wheeler drove up to this house. The driver got off,
and sent a message up to the studio that a gentleman in a cab outside wished to speak to me.
So, of course, I went out. Inside the cab I found a man wearing a thick green veil. He explained
to me that his face had been injured in a railway accident, and that he could not allow it
to be seen by any one. He wanted me to photograph the back of his head. He knew that the request
was unusual. 'But,' he said, pathetically, 'my few friends have got to know the back of my
head, just as they know the faces of others who are--who are less unfortunate than myself.
The doctors tell me that I have not long to live, and my friends are eager to have some slight
memento of me.' I was much moved, and I agreed to photograph him at once."

"The man was PUNYER?"

"Of course. The photograph of the back of his head turned out admirably--clear and full of
character."

"But why did he get photographed at all?"

"You shall hear; it all came out afterwards. I have already told you that PUNYER, in his private
capacity, was a man of his word. It appears that he was engaged to a Miss MIRANDA BUDE. Indeed,
it was to her that I was to send the photographs when they were finished. He had promised her
that he would have his photograph taken for her on his birthday; and the day on which he absconded
happened to be his birthday. He could not break his promise. What was he to do? At first he
disguised himself as far as he could; he shaved off his luxurious beard and moustache; he had
his long fair hair closely cropped and stained black. But there was on his face one certain
mark of identification which he could not alter nor remove. It was a slight scar, extending
diagonally across his forehead; when he was a child he once fell into the fender, and the mark
had remained ever since. At last the bright idea occurred to him that he might have the back
of his head photographed instead of his face, and so keep his promise to MIRANDA. It was really
a brilliant idea. For there was absolutely nothing in the view of the back of his head by which
he could be identified."

"But you told me just now that he actually was identified by your photograph."

"So he was;--I was just going to explain. I was sitting in my studio one day, touching up the
photographs of the back-view of PUNYER, when in came a detective from Scotland Yard. From his
appearance, a detective was the last thing on earth that you would have taken him to be."

"They generally say that in the detective stories," I said, meditatively.

"If you think I'm making this up--"

"No, no,--not at all. Go on."

"Well, he told me his business, and I at once showed him one of the photographs, telling him
under what circumstances they were taken. He examined it carefully. 'Ah!' he said, 'if I only
could prove that this was PUNYER, I should be able to complete my case, and my advancement
would be certain. In my own mind I am convinced of it, but at present I cannot prove it. PUNYER
had a scar on his face. It was like his devilish cunning to have only the back of his head
photographed!' He was just leaving, when suddenly a new idea seemed to flash across him. He
seized the photograph, and rushed across to the mirror. You know that if anything is written
backwards, you can read it by holding it up to a looking-glass. So, of course, the detective,
by holding up the photograph of the back-view, saw the full-face reflected. The scar showed
just above the green veil, and consequently--"

At this point the boy returned with my change. The photographer had locked himself into the
dark room, and I could not get at him; the law gives a man no redress under such circumstances,
and so I came away.

I might have got over the story, perhaps; but my change, I found afterwards, was sixpence short,
and that is not so easy to forgive.

       *       *       *       *       *

"ENTERTAINMENT."

    ["People of this high class (Royal Highnesses, &c.) are said
    to 'entertain' visitors, but that is an inversion of the
    actual fact; their object is to be entertained. And quite
    right too. Nothing can surely be more delightful than to have
    one's house full of friends at will, and then be able to turn
    them out at a moment's notice (as a life-boat gets rid of
    superfluous water) by that simple mechanism of a Chamberlain.
    When the Social System attains its acmé, all of us will have a
    Chamberlain and be entertained."--JAMES PAYN.]

Host (concerning Guest):--

