"Ou, Mauns' Stane.  But it's no likely.  Ye see it was just a queer clump o' a roun'-about
heathen, waghlin' may be twa tons or thereby.  It wasna like ony o' the stanes in our countra,
an' it was as roun' as a fit-ba'; I'm sure it wad ding Professor Couplan himsel' to tell what
way it cam' there.  Noo, fouk aye thought there was something uncanny about it, an' some gaed
the length o' saying that the deil used to bake ginshbread upon't; and, as sure as ye're sitting
there, frien', there was knuckle- marks upon 't, for my ain father has seen them as aften as
I have taes an' fingers.  Aweel, ye see, Mauns Crawford, the last o' the Lairds o' Federat,
an' the deil had coost out (may be because the laird was just as wicked an' as clever as he
was himsel'), an' ye perceive the evil ane wantit to play him a trick.  Noo, Mauns Crawford
was ae day lookin' ower his castle wa', and he saw a stalwart carle, in black claes, ridin'
up the loanin'.  He stopped at this chuckie o' a stane, an' loutin' himsel', he took it up
in his arms, and lifted it three times to his saddle-bow, an' syne he rade awa out o' sight,
never comin' near the castle, as Mauns thought he would hae done.  'Noo,' says the baron till
himsel', says he, 'I didna think that there was ony ane in a' the land that could hae played
sic a ploy; but deil fetch me if I dinna lift it as weel as he did!'  Sae aff he gaed, for
there wasna sic a man for birr in a' the countra, an' he kent it as weel, for he never met
wi' his match.  Weel, he tried, and tugged, and better than tugged at the stane, but he coudna
mudge it ava; an' when he looked about, he saw a man at his ilbuck, a' smeared wi' smiddy-coom,
snightern an' laughin' at him.  The laird d---d him, an' bade him lift it, whilk he did as
gin 't had been a little pinnin.  The laird was like to burst wi' rage at being fickled by
sic a hag-ma-hush carle, and he took to the stane in a fury, and lifted it till his knee; but
the weight o 't amaist ground his banes to smash.  He held the stane till his een-strings crackit,
when he was as blin' as a moudiwort.  He was blin' till the day o' his death,--that's to say,
if ever he died, for there were queer sayings about it--vera queer! vera queer!  The stane
was ca'd Mauns' Stane ever after; an' it was no thought that canny to be near it after gloaming;
for what says the Psalm--hem!--I mean the sang--

   'Tween Ennetbutts an' Mauns' Stane
   Ilka night there walks ane!

"There never was a chief of the family after; the men were scattered, an' the castle demolished.
The doo and the hoodie-craw nestle i' their towers, and the hare mak's her form on their grassy
hearth-stane."

"Is this stone still to be seen?"

"Ou, na.  Ye see, it was just upon Johnie Forbes's craft, an' fouk cam' far an' near to leuk
at it, an' trampit down a' the puir cottar-body's corn; sae he houkit a hole just aside it,
and tumbled it intil 't; by that means naebody sees't noo, but its weel kent that it's there,
for they're livin' yet wha've seen it."

"But the well at the Abbey--did no one feel a desire to enrich himself with the gold and silver
buried there?"

"Hoot, ay; mony a ane tried to find out whaur it was, and, for that matter, I've may be done
as foolish a thing myself; but nane ever made it out.  There was a scholar, like yoursel',
that gaed ae night down to the Abbey, an', ye see, he summoned up the deil."

"The deuce he did!" said I.

"Weel, weel, the deuce, gin ye like it better," said he.  "An' he was gaun to question him
where the treasure was, but he had eneuch to do to get him laid without deaving him wi' questions,
for a' the deils cam' about him, like bees biggin' out o' a byke.  He never coured the fright
he gat, but cried out, 'Help! help!' till his very enemy wad hae been wae to see him; and sae
he cried till he died, which was no that lang after. Fouk sudna meddle wi' sic ploys!"

"Most wonderful!  And do you believe that Beelzebub actually appeared to him?"

"Believe it!  What for no?" said he, consequentially tapping the lid of his snuff-horn.  "Didna
my ain father see the evil ane i' the schule o' Auld Deer?"

"Indeed!"

"Weel, I wot he did that.  A wheen idle callants, when the dominie was out at his twal'-hours,
read the Lord's Prayer backlans, an' raised him, but couldna lay him again, for he threepit
ower them that he wadna gang awa unless he gat ane o' them wi' him.  Ye may be sure this put
them in an awfu' swither.  They were a' squallin' an' crawlin' and sprawlin' amo' the couples
to get out o' his grips.  Ane o' them gat out an' tauld the maister about it, an' when he cam'
down, the melted lead was runnin' aff the roof o' the house wi' the heat, sae, flingin' to
the black thief a young bit kittlen o' the schule-mistress's, he sank through the floor wi'
an awsome roar.  I mysel' have heard the mistress misca'in her man about offering up the puir
thing, baith saul and body, to Baal.  But troth, I'm no clear to speak o' the like o' this
at sic a time o' night; sae if your honour bena for another jug, I'll e'en wus you a gude-night,
for it's wearin' late, an I maun awa' to Skippyfair i' the mornin'."

I assented to this, and quickly lost in sleep the remembrance of all these tales of the olden
times.

"HORSE AND HATTOCK."

The power of the fairies was not confined to unchristened children alone; it was supposed frequently
to be extended to full-grown people, especially such as in an unlucky hour were devoted to
the devil by the execrations of parents and of masters; or those who were found asleep under
a rock, or on a green hill, belonging to the fairies, after sunset, or, finally, to those who
unwarily joined their orgies.  The narrator affirms "that the cup was still preserved, and
known by the name of the fairy cup."  This legend is contained in a letter from a learned gentleman
in Scotland to Mr. Aubrey, dated 15th March 1695, published in Aubrey's Miscellanies.

SECRET COMMONWEALTH.

By MR. ROBERT KIRK, Minister of Aberfoyle, 1691.

The Siths, or Fairies, they call Sluagh Maith, or the Goodpeople, it would seem, to prevent
the dint of their ill attempts (for the Irish used to bless all they fear harm of), and are
said to be of a middle nature betwixt man and angel, as were demons thought to be of old, of
intelligent studious spirits, and light changeable bodies (like those called astral), somewhat
of the nature of a condensed cloud, and best seen in twilight.  These bodies be so pliable
through the subtlety of the spirits that agitate them, that they can make them appear or disappear
at pleasure.  Some have bodies or vehicles so spongeous, thin, and defecat [pure] that they
are fed by only sucking into some fine spirituous liquors, that pierce like pure air and oil;
others feed more gross on the foyson [abundance] or substance of corn and liquors, or corn
itself that grows on the surface of the earth, which these fairies steal away, partly invisible,
partly preying on the grain, as do crows and mice; wherefore in this same age they are sometimes
heard to break bread, strike hammers, and to do such like services within the little hillocks
they most do haunt; some whereof of old, before the Gospel dispelled Paganism, and in some
barbarous places as yet, enter houses after all are at rest, and set the kitchens in order,
cleansing all the vessels.  Such drags go under the name of Brownies.  When we have plenty,
they have scarcity at their homes; and, on the contrary (for they are not empowered to catch
as much prey everywhere as they please), their robberies, notwithstanding, ofttimes occasion
great ricks of corn not to bleed so well (as they call it), or prove so copious by very far
as was expected by the owner.

Their bodies of congealed air are sometimes carried aloft, other whiles grovel in different
shapes, and enter into any cranny or clift of the earth where air enters, to their ordinary
dwellings; the earth being full of cavities and cells, and there being no place, no creature,
but is supposed to have other animals (greater or lesser) living in or upon it as inhabitants;
and no such thing as a pure wilderness in the whole universe.

We then (the more terrestrial kind have now so numerously planted all countries) do labour
for that abstruse people, as well as for ourselves. Albeit, when several countries were uninhabited
by us, these had their easy tillage above ground, as we now.  The print of those furrows do
yet remain to be seen on the shoulders of very high hills, which was done when the campaign
ground was wood and forest.

They remove to other lodgings at the beginning of each quarter of the year, so traversing till
doomsday, being impotent of staying in one place, and finding some ease by so purning [journeying]
and changing habitations.  Their chameleon-like bodies swim in the air near the earth with
bag and baggage; and at such revolution of time, seers, or men of the second sight (females
being seldom so qualified) have very terrifying encounters with them, even on highways; who,
therefore, awfully shun to travel abroad at these four seasons of the year, and thereby have
made it a custom to this day among the Scottish-Irish to keep church duly every first Sunday
of the quarter to seun or hallow themselves, their corn and cattle, from the shots and stealth
of these wandering tribes; and many of these superstitious people will not be seen in church
again till the next quarter begins, as if no duty were to be learnt or done by them, but all
the use of worship and sermons were to save them from these arrows that fly in the dark.

They are distributed in tribes and orders, and have children, nurses, marriages, deaths, and
burials in appearance, even as we (unless they so do for a mock-show, or to prognosticate some
such things among us).

They are clearly seen by these men of the second sight to eat at funerals [and] banquets. 
Hence many of the Scottish-Irish will not taste meat at these meetings, lest they have communion
with, or be poisoned by, them. So are they seen to carry the bier or coffin with the corpse
among the middle-earth men to the grave.  However, the stories of old witches prove beyond
contradiction that all sorts of people, spirits which assume light airy bodies, or crazed bodies
coacted by foreign spirits, seem to have some pleasure (at least to assuage some pain or melancholy)
by frisking and capering like satyrs, or whistling and screeching (like unlucky birds) in their
unhallowed synagogues and Sabbaths.  If invited and earnestly required, these companions make
themselves known and familiar to men; otherwise, being in a different state and element, they
neither can nor will easily converse with them.  They avouch that a heluo or great eater has
a voracious elve to be his attender, called a joint-eater or just-halver, feeding on the pith
and quintessence of what the man eats; and that, therefore, he continues lean like a hawk or
heron, notwithstanding his devouring appetite; yet it would seem they convey that substance
elsewhere, for these subterraneans eat but little in their dwellings, their food being exactly
clean, and served up by pleasant children, like enchanted puppets.

Their houses are called large and fair, and (unless at some odd occasions) unperceivable by
vulgar eyes, like Rachland and other enchanted islands, having fir lights, continual lamps,
and fires, often seen without fuel to sustain them.  Women are yet alive who tell they were
taken away when in childbed to nurse fairy children, a lingering voracious image of them being
left in their place (like their reflection in a mirror), which (as if it were some insatiable
spirit in an assumed body) made first semblance to devour the meats that it cunningly carried
by, and then left the carcass as if it expired and departed thence by a natural and common
death.  The child and fire, with food and all other necessaries, are set before the nurse how
soon she enters, but she neither perceives any passage out, nor sees what those people do in
other rooms of the lodging.  When the child is weaned, the nurse dies, or is conveyed back,
or gets it to her choice to stay there.  But if any superterraneans be so subtle as to practise
sleights for procuring the privacy to any of their mysteries (such as making use of their ointments,
which, as Gyges' ring, make them invisible or nimble, or cast them in a trance, or alter their
shape, or make things appear at a vast distance, etc.), they smite them without pain, as with
a puff of wind, and bereave them of both the natural and acquired sights in the twinkling of
an eye (both these sights, when once they come, being in the same organ and inseparable), or
they strike them dumb.  The tramontanes to this day place bread, the Bible, or a piece of iron,
to save their women at such times from being thus stolen, and they commonly report that all
uncouth, unknown wights are terrified by nothing earthly so much as cold iron. They deliver
the reason to be that hell lying betwixt the chill tempests and the firebrands of scalding
metals, and iron of the north (hence the loadstone causes a tendency to that point), by an
antipathy thereto, these odious, far-scenting creatures shrug and fright at all that comes
thence relating to so abhorred a place, whence their torment is either begun, or feared to
come hereafter.

Their apparel and speech is like that of the people and country under which they live; so are
they seen to wear plaids and variegated garments in the Highlands of Scotland, and suanachs
[plaids] therefore in Ireland. They speak but little, and that by way of whistling, clear,
not rough. The very devils conjured in any country do answer in the language of the place;
yet sometimes the subterraneans speak more distinctly than at other times.  Their women are
said to spin very fine, to dye, to tossue, and embroider; but whether it be as manual operation
of substantial refined stuffs, with apt and solid instruments, or only curious cobwebs, unpalpable
rainbows, and a phantastic imitation of the actions of more terrestrial mortals, since it transcended
all the senses of the seer to discern whether, I leave to conjecture as I found it.

Their men travel much abroad, either presaging or aping the dismal and tragical actions of
some amongst us; and have also many disastrous doings of their own, as convocations, fighting,
gashes, wounds, and burials, both in the earth and air.  They live much longer than we; yet
die at last, or [at] least vanish from that state.  'Tis one of their tenets that nothing perisheth,
but (as the sun and year) everything goes in a circle, lesser or greater, and is renewed and
refreshed in its revolutions; as 'tis another, that every body in the creation moves (which
is a sort of life); and that nothing moves but has another animal moving on it; and so on,
to the utmost minutest corpuscle that's capable of being a receptacle of life.

They are said to have aristocratical rulers and laws, but no discernible religion, love, or
devotion towards God, the blessed Maker of all: they disappear whenever they hear His name
invoked, or the name of Jesus (at which all do bow willingly, or by constraint, that dwell
above or beneath, within the earth), (Philip, ii. 10); nor can they act ought at that time
after hearing of that sacred name.  The Taiblsdear or seer, that corresponds with this kind
of familiars, can bring them with a spell to appear to himself or others when he pleases, as
readily as Endor Witch did those of her own kind.  He tells they are ever readiest to go on
hurtful errands, but seldom will be the messengers of great good to men. He is not terrified
with their sight when he calls them, but seeing them in a surprise (as often as he does) frights
him extremely, and glad would he be quit of such, for the hideous spectacles seen among them;
as the torturing of some wight, earnest, ghostly, staring looks, skirmishes, and the like.
They do not all the harm which appearingly they have power to do; nor are they perceived to
be in great pain, save that they are usually silent and sullen.  They are said to have many
pleasant toyish books; but the operation of these pieces only appears in some paroxysms of
antic, corybantic jollity, as if ravished and prompted by a new spirit entering into them at
that instant, lighter and merrier than their own. Other books they have of involved, abstruse
sense, much like the Rosurcian [Rosicrucian] style.  They have nothing of the Bible, save collected
parcels for charms and counter-charms; not to defend themselves withal, but to operate on other
animals, for they are a people invulnerable by our weapons, and albeit werewolves' and witches'
true bodies are (by the union of the spirit of nature that runs through all echoing and doubling
the blow towards another) wounded at home, when the astral assumed bodies are stricken elsewhere--as
the strings of a second harp, tuned to a unison, sound, though only one be struck,--yet these
people have not a second, or so gross a body at all, to be so pierced; but as air which when
divided unites again; or if they feel pain by a blow, they are better physicians than we, and
quickly cure.  They are not subject to sore sicknesses, but dwindle and decay at a certain
period, all about an age.  Some say their continual sadness is because of their pendulous state
(like those men, Luke xiii. 2-6), as uncertain what at the last revolution will become of them,
when they are locked up into an unchangeable condition; and if they have any frolic fits of
mirth, 'tis as the constrained grinning of a mort-head [death's-head], or rather as acted on
a stage, and moved by another, ther [than?] cordially coming of themselves.  But other men
of the second sight, being illiterate, and unwary in their observations, learn from [differ
from] those; one averring those subterranean people to be departed souls, attending a while
in this inferior state, and clothed with bodies procured through their alms-deeds in this life;
fluid, active, ethereal vehicles to hold them that they may not scatter nor wander, and be
lost in the totum, or their first nothing; but if any were so impious as to have given no alms,
they say, when the souls of such do depart, they sleep in an inactive state till they resume
the terrestrial bodies again; others, that what the low-country Scotch call a wraith, and the
Irish taibhse, or death's messenger (appearing sometimes as a little rough dog, and if crossed
and conjured in time, will be pacified by the death of any other creature instead of the sick
man), is only exuvious fumes of the man approaching death, exhaled and congealed into a various
likeness (as ships and armies are sometimes shaped in the air), and called astral bodies, agitated
as wild-fire with wind, and are neither souls nor counterfeiting spirits; yet not a few avouch
(as is said) that surely these are a numerous people by themselves, having their own politics,
which diversities of judgment may occasion several inconsonancies in this rehearsal, after
the narrowest scrutiny made about it.

