Transcriber's Note:                                          |
  |                                                              |
  | I. Inconsistent punctuation and capitalisation has been      |
  | silently corrected throughout the book.                      |
  |                                                              |
  | II. Clear spelling mistakes have been corrected however,     |
  | inconsistent language usage (such as 'day' and 'dey') has    |
  | been maintained. Inconsistent spelling of place names and    |
  | personal names has also been retained. A list of corrections |
  | is included at the end of the book.                          |
  |                                                              |
  | III. Handwritten corrections have been incorporated within   |
  | the text. Exceptions are notes which were just question      |
  | marks or were followed by question marks: these have been    |
  | explicitly included as 'Handwritten Notes'.                  |
  |                                                              |
  | IV. The numbers at the start of each interview were stamped  |
  | into the original work and refer to the number of the        |
  | published interview in the context of the entire Slave       |
  | Narratives project. He does not
     know the name of his first master. Frank Sparks brought Willis to
     Bosqueville, Texas, when he was two years old. Willis believes
     firmly in "conjuremen" and ghosts, and wears several charms for
     protection against the former. He lives in Waco, Texas.

"I's birthed below Nacogdoches, and dey tells me it am on March 19th, in 1852. My mammy had
some kind of paper what say dat. But I don't know my master, 'cause when I's two he done give
me to Marse Frank Sparks and he brung me to Bosqueville. Dat sizeable place dem days. My mammy
come 'bout a month after, 'cause Marse Frank, he say I's too much trouble without my mammy.

"Mammy de bes' cook in de county and a master hand at spinnin' and weavin'. She made her own
dye. Walnut and elm makes red dye and walnut brown color, and shumake makes black color. When
you wants yallow color, git cedar moss out de brake.

"All de lint was picked by hand on our place. It a slow job to git dat lint out de cotton and
I's gone to sleep many a night, settin' by de fire, pickin' lint. In bad weather us sot by
de fire and pick lint and patch harness and shoes, or whittle out something, dishes and bowls
and troughs and traps and spoons.

"All us chillen weared lowel white duckin', homemake, jes' one garment. It was de long shirt.
You couldn't tell gals from boys on de yard.

"I's twelve when us am freed and for awhile us lived on Marse Bob Wortham's place, on Chalk
Bluff, on Horseshoe Bend. After de freedom war, dat old Brazos River done change its course
up 'bove de bend, and move to de west.

"I marries Nancy Clark in 1879, but no chilluns. Dere plenty deer and bears and wild turkeys
and antelopes here den. Dey's sho' fine eatin' and wish I could stick a tooth in one now. I's
seed fifty antelope at a waterin' hole.

"Dere plenty Indians, too. De Rangers had de time keepin' dem back. Dey come in bright of de
moon and steals and kills de stock. Dere a ferry 'cross de Brazos and Capt. Ross run it. He
sho' fit dem Indians.

"Dem days everybody went hossback and de roads was jes' trails and bridges was poles 'cross
de creeks. One day us went to a weddin'. Dey sot de dinner table out in de yard under a big
tree and de table was a big slab of a tree on legs. Dey had pewter plates and spoons and chiny
bowls and wooden dishes. Some de knives and forks was make out of bone. Dey had beef and pork
and turkey and some antelope.

"I knows 'bout ghostes. First, I tells you a funny story. A old man named Josh, he purty old
and notionate. Every evenin' he squat down under a oak tree. Marse Smith, he slip up and hear
Josh prayin, 'Oh, Gawd, please take pore old Josh home with you.' Next day, Marse Smith wrop
heself in a sheet and git in de oak tree. Old Josh come 'long and pray, 'Oh, Gawd, please come
take pore old Josh home with you.' Marse say from top de tree, 'Poor Josh, I's come to take
you home with me.' Old Josh, he riz up and seed dat white shape in de tree, and he yell, 'Oh,
Lawd, not right now, I hasn't git forgive for all my sins.' Old Josh, he jes' shakin' and he
dusts out dere faster den a wink. Dat broke up he prayin' under dat tree.

"I never studied cunjurin', but I knows dat scorripins and things dey cunjures with am powerful
medicine. Dey uses hair and fingernails and tacks and dry insects and worms and bat wings and
sech. Mammy allus tie a leather string round de babies' necks when dey teethin', to make dem
have easy time. She used a dry frog or piece nutmeg, too.

"Mammy allus tell me to keep from bein' cunjure, I sing:

"'Keep 'way from me, hoodoo and witch,
  Lend my path from de porehouse gate;
  I pines for golden harps and sich,
  Lawd, I'll jes' set down and wait.
  Old Satan am a liar and cunjurer, too--
  If you don't watch out, he'll cunjure you.'

"Dem cunjuremen sho' bad. Dey make you have pneumony and boils and bad luck. I carries me a
jack all de time. It em de charm wrop in red flannel. Don't know what am in it. A bossman,
he fix it for me.

"I sho' can find water for de well. I got a li'l tree limb what am like a V. I driv de nail
in de end of each branch and in de crotch. I takes hold of each branch and iffen I walks over
water in de ground, dat limb gwine turn over in my hand till it points to de ground. Iffen
money am buried, you can find it de same way.

"Iffen you fills a shoe with salt and burns it, dat call luck to you. I wears a dime on a string
round de neck and one round de ankle. Dat to keep any conjureman from sottin' de trick on ma.
Dat dime be bright iffen my friends am true. It sho' gwine git dark iffen dey does me wrong.

"For to make a jack dat am sho' good, git snakeroot and sassafras and a li'l lodestone and
brimstone and asafoetida and resin and bluestone and gum arabic and a pod or two red pepper.
Put dis in de red flannel bag, at midnight on de dark of de moon, and it sho' do de work.

"I knowed a ghost house, I sho' did. Everybody knowed it, a red brick house in Waco, on Thirteenth
and Washington St. Dey calls it de Bell house. It sho' a fine, big house, but folks couldn't
use it. De white folks what owns it, dey gits one nigger and 'nother to stay round and look
after things. De white folks wants me to stay dere. I goes. Every Friday night dere am a rustlin'
sound, like murmur of treetops, all through dat house. De shutters rattles--only dere ain't
no shutters on dem windows. Jes' plain as anything, I hears a chair, rockin', rockin'. Footsteps,
soft as de breath, you could hear dem plain. But I stays and hunts and can't find nobody nor
nothin' none of dem Friday nights.

"Den come de Friday night on de las' quarter de moon. Long 'bout midnight, something lift me
out de cot. I heared a li'l child sobbin', and dat rocker git started, and de shutters dey
rattle softlike, and dat rustlin', mournin' sound all through dat house. I takes de lantern
and out in de hall I goes. Right by de foot de stairs I seed a woman, big as life, but she
was thin and I seed right through her. She jes' walk on down dat hall and pay me no mind. She
make de sound like de beatin' of wings. I jes' froze. I couldn't move.

"Dat woman jes' melted out de window at de end of de hall, and I left dat place!

420054

     ANDERSON AND MINERVA EDWARDS, a Negro Baptist preacher and his
     wife, were slaves on adjoining plantations in Rusk County, Texas.
     Anderson was born March 12, 1844, a slave of Major Matt Gaud, and
     Minerva was born February 2, 1850, a slave of Major Flannigan. As a
     boy Andrew would get a pass to visit his father, who belonged to
     Major Flannigan, and there he met Minerva. They worked for their
     masters until three years after the war, then moved to Harrison
     County, married and reared sixteen children. Andrew and Minerva
     live in a small but comfortable farmhouse two miles north of
     Marshall. Minerva's memory is poor, and she added little to
     Anderson's story.

"My father was Sandy Flannigan and he had run off from his first master in Maryland, on the
east shore, and come to Texas, and here a slave buyer picked him up and sold chances on him.
If they could find his Maryland master he'd have to go back to him and if they couldn't the
chances was good. Wash Edwards in Panola County bought the chance on him, but he run off from
him, too, and come to Major Flannigan's in Rusk County. Fin'ly Major Flannigan had to pay a
good lot to get clear title to him.

"My mammy was named Minerva and her master was Major Gaud, and I was born there on his plantation
in 1866. You can ask that tax man at Marshall 'bout my age, 'cause he's fix my 'xemption papers
since I'm sixty. I had seven brothers and two sisters. There was Frank, Joe, Sandy and Gene,
Preston and William and Sarah and Delilah, and they all lived to be old folks and the younges'
jus' died last year. Folks was more healthy when I growed up and I'm 93 now and ain't dead;
fact is, I feels right pert mos' the time.

"My missy named Mary and she and Massa Matt lived in a hewed log house what am still standin'
out there near Henderson. Our quarters was 'cross the road and set all in a row. Massa own
three fam'lies of slaves and lots of hosses and sheep and cows and my father herded for him
till he was freed. The government run a big tan yard there on Major Gaud's place and one my
uncles was shoemaker. Jus' 'bout time of war, I was piddlin' 'round the tannery and a government
man say to me, 'Boy, I'll give you $1,000 for a drink of water,' and he did, but it was 'federate
money that got kilt, so it done me no good.

"Mammy was a weaver and made all the clothes and massa give us plenty to eat; fact, he treated
us kind-a like he own boys. Course he whipped us when we had to have it, but not like I seed
darkies whipped on other place. The other niggers called us Major Gaud's free niggers and we
could hear 'em moanin' and cryin' round 'bout, when they was puttin' it on 'em.

"I worked in the field from one year end to t'other and when we come in at dusk we had to eat
and be in bed by nine. Massa give us mos' anything he had to eat, 'cept biscuits. That ash
cake wasn't sich bad eatin' and it was cooked by puttin' cornmeal batter in shucks and bakin'
in the ashes.

"We didn't work in the field Sunday but they have so much stock to tend it kep' us busy. Missy
was 'ligious and allus took us to church when she could. When we prayed by ourse'ves we daren't
let the white folks know it and we turned a wash pot down to the ground to cotch the voice.
We prayed a lot to be free and the Lord done heered us. We didn't have no song books and the
Lord done give us our songs and when we sing them at night it jus' whispering to nobody hear
us. One went like this:

"'my knee bones am aching,
  my body's rackin' with pain,
  i 'lieve i'm a chile of god,
  and this ain't my home,
  'cause heaven's my aim.'

"Massa Gaud give big corn shuckin's and cotton pickin's and the women cook up big dinners and
massa give us some whiskey, and lots of times we shucked all night. On Saturday nights we'd
sing and dance and we made our own instruments, which was gourd fiddles and quill flutes. Gen'rally
Christmas was like any other day, but I got Santa Claus twict in slavery, 'cause massa give
me a sack of molasses candy once and some biscuits once and that was a whole lot to me then.

