The author crossed the ice to Montreal, and had a showy view of the metropolis of the Canadas.
A curious observation is suggested by Montreal, on the different characters of the English
and French population. In the days of Wolf and Amherst, it was all French; but John Bull, with
his spirit of activity and industry, has quietly become master of all the trading situations
of the city, while the French have as quietly retreated, and spread themselves through the
upper sections of it, to a great degree cut off from its commercial portions.

From Montreal the travel began. The heavy canoes were sent forward some days before, under
the charge of some of the Company's officers, the light canoes waited for the author, with
Colonel Oldfield, chief engineer in Canada, who was going up the country on a survey of the
navigation, and the Earls of Mulgrave and Caledon, who were going to the Red River, buffalo-hunting.

All was now ready in form, and on the 4th of May the two canoes were floating on the Lactrine
canal. The crews, thirteen to one vessel, and fourteen to the other, were partly Canadians,
but principally Iroquois. Those voyageurs, as they are called, had each been supplied with
a feather in his cap, in honour of the occasion, and evidently expected to produce a sensation
on shore. But a north-wester blowing prevented the hoisting of their flags, which mulcted the
pageant of much of its intended glory. These canoes are thirty-five feet in length, and five
feet wide in the centre; drawing about eighteen inches water, and weighing between three and
four hundred pounds; capitally fitted for a navigation among rocks, rapids, and portages; but
they seem most uncomfortable in rough weather. The waves of the St Lawrence rolled like a sea,
the gale was biting, and the snow drifted heavily in the faces of the party. In this luckless
condition, we are not surprised at the intelligence, that at St Anne's Rapids, notwithstanding
the authority of the poet, "they sang no evening hymn."

This style of travelling was not certainly much mingled with luxury. Next morning, after "toiling
for six hours," they breakfasted, "with the wet ground for their table, and with rain in place
of milk to cool their tea." On this day, while running close under the falls of the Rideau,
they seem to have had a narrow escape from a finale to their voyage; their canoes being swept
into the middle of the river, under an immense fall, fifty feet in height.

They now learned the art of bivouaching, and after a day of toiling through portages, reserving
the severest of them, the Grand Calumet, for the renewed vigour of the morning, they made ready
for the forest night. The description, brief as it is, is one among many which shows the artist
eye.

"The tents were pitched in a small clump of pines, while round a blazing fire the passengers
were collected, amid a medley of boxes, barrels, cloaks, and on the rock above the foaming
rapids were lying the canoes; the men flitting about the fires as if they were enjoying a holiday,
and watching a huge cauldron suspended above the fire. The whole with a background of dense
woods and a lake."

Yet, startling as this "wooing of nature" in her rough moods may seem to the silk-and-velvet
portion of the world, we doubt whether this wild life, with its desperate toil and its ground
sleep, may not be the true charm of travel to saint, savage, or sage, when once fairly forced
to the experiment. The blazing fire, the bed of leaves, the gay supper, made gayer still by
incomparable appetite, and the sleep after all, in which the whole outward man remains imbedded,
without the movement of a muscle and without a dream, until the morning awakes him up a new
being, are fully worth all the inventions of art, to make us enjoy rest unearned by fatigue,
and food without waiting for appetite. "The sleep of the weary man is sweet," said the ancient
and wise king who slept among curtains of gold, and under roofs of cedar; the true way to taste
that sleep is to spend a day, dragging canoes up Indian portages, and lie down with one's feet
warmed by a pine blaze and one's back to the shelter of a forest.

But, as the time will assuredly come when this "life in the woods" will be no more, when huge
inns will supersede the canopy of the skies, and down beds will make the memory of birch twigs
and heather blossoms pass away, we give from authority the proceedings of an evening's rest,
which the next generation will study with somewhat of the feeling of reading Tacitus De Moribus
Germanorum.

As the sun approached his setting, every eye in the canoes, as they pulled along, was speculating
on some dry and tolerably open spot on the shore. That once found, all were on shore in an
instant. Then the axe was heard ringing among the trees, to prepare for the fires, and make
room for the tents. In ten minutes, the tents were pitched, the fires blazing in front of each,
and the supper preparing in all its diversities. The beds were next made, consisting of an
oil-cloth laid on the ground, with blankets and a pillow; occasionally aided by great-coats,
à discretion. The crews, drawing the canoes on shore, first made an inspection of their hurts
during the day; and having done this, the little vessels were turned into a shelter, and each
man wrapping himself in his blanket defied the weather and the world.

But this state of happiness was never destined to last long. About one in the morning, the
cry, of "Leve, leve," broke all slumbers. We must acknowledge that the hour seems premature,
and that the most patient of travellers might have solicited a couple of hours more of "tired
Nature's sweet restorer." But the discipline of the bivouac was Spartan. If the slumberer did
not instantly start up, the tent was pulled down about him, and he found himself half-smothered
in canvass. However, we must presume that this seldom happened, and, within half an hour, every
thing would be packed, the canoes laden, and the paddles moving to some "merry old song." In
this manner passed the day, six hours of rest, to eighteen of labour, a tremendous disproportion,
even to the sturdy Englishman, or the active Irishman, but perfectly congenial to the sinews
and spirit of the gay voyageur.

A few touches more give the complete picture of the day. About eight, a convenient site would
be selected for breakfast. Three-quarters of an hour being the whole time allotted for unpacking
and packing, boiling and frying, eating and drinking. "While the preliminaries were arranging,
the hardier among us would wash and shave, each person carrying soap and towel in his pocket,
and finding a mirror in the same sandy or rocky basin which held the water. About two in the
afternoon, we put ashore for dinner, and as this meal needed no fire, or, at least, got none,
it was not allowed to occupy more than twenty minutes, or half an hour."

We recommend the following considerations to the amateur boat clubs, and others, who plume
themselves on their naval achievements between Putney and Vauxhall bridges. Let them take the
work of a Canadian paddle-man to heart, and lower their plumage accordingly.

"The quality of the work, even more than the quantity, requires operatives of iron mould. In
smooth water, the paddle is plied with twice the rapidity of the oar, taxing both arms and
lungs to the utmost extent. Amid shallows, the canoe is literally dragged by the men, wading
to their knees or their loins, while each poor fellow, after replacing his drier half in his
seat, laughingly strikes the heavier of the wet from his legs over the gunwale, before he gives
them an inside berth. In rapids, the towing line has to be hauled along over rocks and stumps,
through swamps and thickets, excepting that when the ground is utterly impracticable, poles
are substituted, and occasionally also the bushes on the shore."

This however is "plain sailing," to the Portages, where the tracks are of all imaginable kinds
and degrees of badness, and the canoes and their cargoes are never carried across in less than
two or three trips; the little vessels alone monopolizing, in the first turn, the more expert
half of their respective crews. Of the baggage, each man has to carry at least two pieces,
estimated at a hundred and eighty pounds weight, which he suspends in slings placed across
his forehead, so that he may have his hands free, to clear his way among the branches and standing
or fallen trunks. Besides all this, the voyageur performs the part of bridge, or jetty, on
the arrival of the canoe at its place of rest, the gentlemen passengers being carried on shore
on the backs of these good-humoured and sinewy fellows.

For the benefit of the untravelled, we should say, that a Portage is the fragment of land-passage
between the foot and head of a rapid, when the rush of the stream is too strong for the tow-rope.

At one of the halting-places on Lake Superior, a curious tale was told of the Indian's belief
in a Providence, of which it had been the scene.

Three or four years before, a party of Salteaux, much pressed for hunger, were anxious to reach
one of their fishing stations, an island about twenty miles from the shore. The spring had
unluckily reached that point, when there was neither clear water, nor trustworthy ice. A council
was being held, to consider the hard alternatives of drowning and starving, when an old man
of influence thus spoke:

"You know, my friends, that the Great Spirit gave one of our squaws a child yesterday; now,
he cannot have sent it into the world to take it away again directly. I should therefore recommend
the carrying the child with us, as the pledge of safety."

We wish that we could have to record a successful issue to this anticipation. But the transit
was too much for the metaphysics of the old Indian. They went on the treacherous ice, it gave
way, and eight-and-twenty perished.

The Thunder Mountain on their route, struck them as "one of the most appalling objects" which
they had seen, being a bleak rock twelve hundred feet high above the level of the lake, with
a perpendicular face of its full height. The Indians say, that any one who can scale it, and
"turn three times on the brink of its fearful wall, will live for ever." We presume, by dying
first.

But the shores of this mighty lake, or rather fresh-water sea, which seemed destined to loneliness
for ever, are now likely to hear the din of population and blaze with furnaces and factories.
Its southern coasts are found to possess rich veins of copper and silver. Later inquiry has
discovered on the northern shore "inexhaustible treasures of gold, silver, copper, and tin,"
and associations have been already formed to work them. Sir George Simpson even speaks of the
future probability of their rivalling in point of wealth the Altai chain, and the Uralian mountains.

From Fort William, at the head of Lake Superior, the little expedition entered a river with
a polysyllabic name, which leads farther on, to the "Far West." The banks were beautiful. When
this country shall be peopled, it will be one of the resemblances of the primitive paradise.

It is all picturesque; the river finely diversified with rapids, and with one cataract which,
though less in volume than Niagara, throws that far-famed fall into the background, in point
of height and wildness of scenery. But we must leave description to the author's pen. "The
river, during this day's march, passed through forests of elm, oak, birch, &c., being studded
with isles not less fertile and lovely than its banks. And many a spot reminded us of the rich
and quiet scenery of England. The paths of the numerous portages were spangled with roses,
violets, and many other wild flowers--while the currant, the gooseberry, the raspberry, the
plum, the cherry, and even the vine, were abundant. All this bounty of nature was imbued, as
it were, with life, by the cheerful notes of a variety of birds, and by the restless flutter
of butterflies of the brightest hues." He then makes the natural and graceful reflection--

"One cannot pass through this fair valley without feeling that it is destined to become, sooner
or later, the happy home of civilised men, with their bleating flocks, and their lowing herds--with
their schools and their churches--with their full garners, and their social hearths. At the
time of our visit, the great obstacle in the way of so blessed a consummation was the hopeless
wilderness to the eastward, which seemed to bar for ever the march of settlement and cultivation,
but which will soon be an open road to the far west with all its riches. That wilderness, now
that it is to yield up its long-hidden stores, bids fair to remove the impediments which hitherto
it has itself presented. The mines of Lake Superior, besides establishing a continuity of route
between the East and the West, will find their nearest and cheapest supply of agricultural
produce in the valley of the Kaministaquoia."

One of the especial hazards of the forest now encountered them. Passing down a narrow creek
near Lac le Pluie, fire suddenly burst forth in the woods near them. The flames crackling and
clambering up each tree, quickly rose above the forest; within a few minutes more the dry grass
on the very margin of the waters, was in "a running blaze, and before they were clear of the
danger, they were almost enveloped in clouds of smoke and ashes. These conflagrations, often
caused by a wanderer's fire, or even by his pipe, desolate large tracts of country, leaving
nothing but black and bare trunks, one of the most dismal scenes on which the eye can look.
When once the fire gets into the thick turf of the primeval wilderness, it sets every thing
at defiance. It has been known to smoulder for a whole winter under the deep snow."

Another Indian display quickly followed. After traversing the lake, they were hailed by the
warriors of the Salteaux, a band of about a hundred, the fighting men of a tribe of five hundred.
Their five chiefs presented a congratulatory address on their safe arrival, requesting an audience,
which was appointed, at the rather undiplomatic hour of four next morning. But, while the Governor
was slumbering, the Indians were preparing means of persuasion more effective, in their conceptions,
than even the oratory on which they seem to pride themselves very highly--"while they were
napping, the enemy were pelting away at them with their incantations."

In the centre of a conjuring tent--a structure of branches and bark, forty feet in length by
ten in width--they kindled a fire; round the blaze stood the chiefs and "medicine men," while
as many others as could find room were squatted against the walls. Then, to enlighten and convert
the Governor, charms were muttered, rattles were shaken, and offerings were committed to the
flames. After all these operations the silent spectators, at a given signal, started on their
feet and marched round the magic circle, singing, whooping, and drumming in horrible discord.
With occasional intervals, which were spent by the performers in taking fresh air, the exhibition
continued during the whole night, so that when the appointed hour arrived they were still engaged
in their observances. At length the two parties met in the open square of the fort. The Indians
dressed in all their glory, a part of which consists in smearing their faces entirely out of
sight with colours--the prevailing fashion being, forehead white, nose and cheeks red, mouth
and chin black.

The Governor and his party of course made their best effort to meet all this magnificence.
Lord Caledon and Lord Mulgrave exhibited in regimentals; the rest put on their dressing-gowns,
which, being of showy patterns, were equally effective. Seated in the "hall of conference,"
the pipes being sent round, hands shaken, and all due ceremonial having been performed, the
Indian orator commenced his harangue in the style with which we have now become familiar. Beginning
with the creation, &c. &c., which Sir George cut short, and suddenly dropping down into the
practical complaint, "that we had stopped their rum," though our predecessors had promised
to furnish it "as long as the waters flowed down the rapids." "Now," said he, in allusion to
our empty casks, "if I crack a nut, will water flow from it?"

The Governor replied, that the withdrawal of the rum was not to save expense but to benefit
them. He then gave them his advice on temperance, and promised them a small quantity of rum
every autumn. He also promised a present for their civility in bringing their packet of furs,
for which they should receive payment besides. Then followed a general and final shaking of
hands, and the Congress between the English and Chippaway nations broke up to their mutual
satisfaction.

The Red River settlement, of which we heard so often during the quarrels between Lord Selkirk
and the Company, will yet be a great colony; the soil is very fertile (one of the most important
elements of colonisation,) its early tillage producing forty returns of wheat; and, even after
twenty years of tillage, without manure, fallow, or green crop, yielding from fifteen to twenty-five
bushels an acre. The wheat is plump and heavy, and, besides, there are large quantities of
other grain, with beef, mutton, pork, butter, cheese, and wool in abundance. This would be
the true country for emigration from our impoverished islands, and will, of course, be crowded
when conveyances shall become more manageable. A railroad across Canada must still be a rather
Utopian conception, but it might be well worth the expense of making by government, even though
it produced nothing for the next half-dozen years, for the multitudes whom it would carry through
the heart of this superb country in the half-dozen years after, and for the wealth which they
would pour into England in every year to come.

The settlement, however, meets, in its turn, the common chances of an American climate. In
winter the cold is intense. The summer is short, and the rivers sometimes overflow and drown
the crops. Still what are these things to the population, where food is plenty, the air healthy,
and the ground cheap, fertile and untaxed. In fact, the difficulties, in such instances, are
scarcely more than incitements to the ingenuity of man, to provide resources against them.
The season of snow is a time of cheerfulness in every land of the north. In Denmark, Russia,
and Canada, when the rivers close up, business is laid by for the next six months; and the
time of dancing, driving, and feasting begins. Food is the great requisite; when that is found,
every thing follows.

In addition to agriculture, or in place of it, the settlers, more particularly those of mixed
origin, devote the summer, the autumn, and sometimes the winter also, to the hunting of the
buffalo, bringing home vast quantities of pemmican, dried meat, grease, tongues, &c. for which
the Company and voyaging business affords the best market.

The party now proceeded, still with their faces turned to the west, and marched for some days
over an immense prairie, which seemed to them to have been once the bottom of a huge lake.
A rather striking circumstance is, that nearly every height in this region has its romance
of savage life. We give one of murder, for the benefit of the modern school of novelists.

Many summers ago, a party of Assinabaians fell on a party of Crees in the neighbourhood of
the Beatte a Carcajar, a conspicuous knoll in this neighbourhood, and nearly destroyed them
all. Among the assailants was the former wife of one of the Crees, who had been carried off
from him, in an earlier foray, by her present lord and master. From whatever motive of domestic
memory, this Amazon rushed into the thickest of the fight, for the evident purpose of killing
the original husband. He, however, escaped; and while the victors were scalping his unfortunate
companions, creeping stealthily along for a whole day under cover of the woods, he laid down
at night in a hollow at the top of the Knoll. But his wife had never lost sight of him, and
no sooner had he, in the exhaustion of hunger and fatigue, sunk into a sound sleep, than she
sent an arrow into his brain. She then possessed herself of his scalp, and exhibited it as
her prize to the victors. The title of the slain savage was the Wolverine, and the spot is
still called the Wolverine's Knoll.

The Indians assert that the ghosts of the murderess and her victim are often to be seen struggling
on the height.

Human nature, left to itself, is a fierce and frightful thing; and the stories of savage life
are nearly all of the same calibre, and all exhibit a dreadful love of revenge. About twenty
years ago, a large encampment of Black-feet and others, had been formed in those prairies for
the purpose of hunting. The warriors, however, growing tired of their peaceful occupation,
resolved to make an incursion into the lands of the Assinabaians. They left behind them the
old men with the women and children. After a successful campaign, they turned their steps homewards,
loaded with scalps and other spoils, and on reaching the top of the ridge that overlooked their
camp, they gave note of their approach by the usual shouts of victory. But no shout answered,
and on descending to their huts, they found the whole of the inmates slaughtered. The Assinabaians
had been there to take their revenge.

On beholding the dismal scene, the triumphant warriors cast away their spoils, arms, and clothing,
and then putting on robes of leather, and smearing their heads with mud, they betook themselves
to the hills for three days and nights, to howl and moan, and cut their flesh. It is observed,
that this mode of expressing public grief, bears a striking resemblance to the customs of the
Jews. The track towards Fort Vancouver exhibited a country, which may yet make a great figure
in the American world,--immense valleys sheltered by mountain ridges, and containing beautiful
lakes. In one instance, their tents were pitched in a valley of about five hundred acres enclosed
by mountains on three sides, and a lake on the fourth. From the edge of the waters there arose
a gentle descent of six or eight hundred feet covered with vines, and composed of the accumulated
fragments of the heights above; and on the upper border of this slope there stood perpendicular
walls of granite of three or four thousand feet high, while among those dizzy altitudes, the
goats and sheep bounded in playful security. This defile had been the scene of an exploit.
One of the Crees, whom they had met a few days before, had been tracked into the valley along
with his wife and family by five warriors of a hostile tribe. On perceiving the odds against
him, the man gave himself up for lost, observing to the woman, that as they could die but once,
they had better die without resistance. The wife, however, said, that "as they had but one
life to lose, they had the more reason to defend it," and, suiting the action to the word,
the heroic wife brought the foremost of the enemy down to the ground by a bullet, while the
husband disposed of two others by two arrows. The fourth warrior was rushing on the woman with
uplifted tomahawk, when he stumbled and fell. She darted forward, and buried her knife in his
heart. The sole surviving assailant now turned and fled, discharging, however, a bullet which
wounded the man in the arm.

They had now reached that rocky range from which the eastern and western rivers of those mighty
provinces take their common departure. Here they estimated the height of the pass to be seven
or eight thousand feet above sea-level, while the peaks seemed to be nearly half that height
above their heads.

Of course, the party often felt the torture of mosquitoes, but one valley was so pre-eminently
infested with those tormentors, that man and beast alike preferred being nearly choked with
smoke, in which they plunged, for the sake of escaping their stings. But we advert to this
common plague of all forest travel, only for its legendary honours.

"The Canadians vented their curses against the OLD MAID, who had the credit of having brought
the scourge upon earth, by praying for something to fill up the leisure of her single blessedness."
And if, as the author observes, "the tormentors would confine themselves to nunneries and monasteries,
the world might see something more of the fitness of things in the matter."

At the close of August, the party reached Fort Vancouver, having crossed the Continent, by
a route of five thousand miles, in twelve weeks' travelling.

They now made a visit to the Russian-American Company's Establishment of New Archangel. This
exhibited considerable signs of commerce. In the harbour were five sailing vessels from 250
to 350 tons; besides a large bark in the offing in tow of a steamer, which brought advices
from St Petersburgh down to the end of April. An officer came off conveying Governor Etholine's
compliments and welcome. The party landed, and were received in the residence situated on the
top of a rock. The Governor's dwelling consisted of a suite of apartments communicating, according
to the Russian fashion, with each other, all the public, rooms being handsomely decorated and
richly furnished. It commanded a view of the whole establishment, which was, in fact, a little
village. About half way down the rock, two batteries frowned respectively over the land and
the water. Behind the Bay arise stupendous piles of conical mountains with summits of everlasting
snow. To seaward, Mount Edgecumbe, also in the form of a cone, rears its trunk-headed peak,
still remembered as the source of smoke and flame, lava and ashes, but now the repository of
the snows of an age. Next day, the Governor, in full uniform, came in his gig to return the
visit to Sir George on board his steamer. The party were invited on shore, where they were
introduced to Madame Etholine, a pretty and lady-like woman, a native of Finland. They then
visited the schools, in which there were twenty boys and as many girls; the boys were intended
chiefly for the naval service, nor did religion seem to be neglected any more than education.
The Greek Church had its bishop, fifteen priests, deacons, and followers, and the Lutherans
had their clergyman. The ecclesiastics were all maintained by the Imperial Government. Such
is Sitka, the principal depot of the Russian-American Company. It has various subordinate establishments.
The operations of the Company are becoming more extensive, and at this period the returns of
the trade amounted to about 25,000 skins of beavers, otters, foxes, &c.

