  Swiftly the shadow of William the Hun
  Fades from the fields that our valour has won;
  Totter the thrones of our many Controllers,
  Freedom is coming to man and his molars:
  Doomed is the coupon and doomed is the card,
  With all the embargos that hit us so hard;
  Now we may purchase unlimited lard.

  Soon will the mud-spattered soldier be free;
  Soon will the sailor be home from the sea:
  Victory beams on the banners of Right,
  This is the time to be merry and bright;
  Stilled is the riot of shot and of shard
  And (what a boon to the heart of the bard!)
  Now we may purchase unlimited lard.

  Shout for the joy of it, waving your hats;
  Where there are puttees will shortly be spats;
  Never again will we form on the right,
  Squad or platoon, for a sergeant's delight;
  So let our faces, by discipline marred,
  Shine with an unction that savours of nard,
  Now we may purchase unlimited lard.

       *       *       *       *       *

BIG BERTHA OUTRANGED.

    "Two Russian battleships and some cruisers set out from Cronstadt
    to meet the British warships in the Baltic, and were fired on from
    the Flemish coast."--Yorkshire Paper.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "After four incessant years across Dora's knee the peace New
    Year ought surely to hold something good in its kindly lap for
    well-strafed automobilists."--Sketch.

But after four years across Dora's knee the New Year is probably not thinking about its lap,
but quite the reverse.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "The announcement of a ball in Brussels gave plenty of scope for
    imaginative scribes to quote, in some cases almost correctly,
    the lines about 'there was a scene of revelry by night.'"--"Mr.
    Gossip" in "The Daily Sketch."

"MR. GOSSIP," too, quotes "almost correctly."

       *       *       *       *       *

It is hoped that if M. PADEREWSKI becomes President of the new Polish Republic he will experience
the truth of the old proverb, Chi va piano va sano.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE ARMY OF ENTERTAINMENT, LTD.

As a mere soldier threatened with unemployment owing to the sudden outbreak of peace, I offer
to any enterprising company-promoter an idea which should provide him with an immense fortune
and myself with a congenial means of livelihood.

My suggestion is that, with the consent of Lord NORTHCLIFFE and the Allies, a slice of the
old Front should be kept up in statu quo, and a representative assortment of troops retained
to hold it on what was our side, and to carry on the War as it was in the good old days of
'15, when we thought our life's work was bespoken and soldiers with boy babies raised the question
of making acting rank hereditary. No enemy would be employed, experiment having proved that
the existence of an enemy detracts from the enjoyment of modern war.

The little army, commanded by a General, himself an employé of the Army of Entertainment Co.,
Ltd., would conduct operations for demonstration purposes. Visitors would be charged admission
to the Company's zone, and pay extra for any particular stunt show arranged for their benefit.

It would be necessary to acquire a strip of country running right back to the coast, if realism
should be the aim of the directors, otherwise it would be impossible, to show an A.M.L.O. in
action, or some interesting types of Headquarters, or laundry Colonels winning the D.S.O.

I have in mind a highly entertaining General who might be willing to accept the position of
G.O.C. for the Company--one of those desperate old gentlemen whose joy was to stalk about busy
areas and strafe the domestic and sanitary arrangements of batteries and battalions. He is
of picturesque appearance and would afford the best comic relief. This General would be attended
by the usual assistants, traditionally housed, clothed and fed, but, the division being run
as a commercial venture, it would be a matter for consideration by the directors whether these
young gentlemen should receive a salary or pay a fee.

Some visitors might well be so delighted with soldiering, free from the annoyance of enemy
action, that they would wish to make a long stay and experience all its variations, beginning
perhaps with the P.B.I, (or Pretty Busy Infantry) in a mud-hole in the front line, and passing
through all the stages of the normal military career till they arrived at the Divisional Chateau.
Should anyone desire to survey life from the altitude of an R.T.O. (Railway Transport, not
Really Tantalising Officer, as supposed by some) it might be arranged for him, in the interests
of realism, to improvise information as to trains for the benefit of other visitors.

Appropriate rations would be included, in the entrance money, while there might be canteens
for the sale of such extras as bootlaces and penholders. Visitors would not be allowed to bring
money into the area, but would be given the usual books of cash withdrawal forms, entitling
them to obtain small sums from the field cashier--if they could find him. As a field cashier
of experience would be employed and possibly act in collusion with the R.T.O., these sums of
money might be regarded as prizes, and would create a pleasant excitement without amounting
to any great expense for the Company.

Those willing to pay high prices would have arranged for them such displays as "normal artillery
activity," pukka strafes, S.O.S. bombardments or barrages chaperoning infantry advances, while
balloons might be set on fire, dumps blown up, or leave cancelled at special rates. There might
also be an assortment of inexpensive and amusing side-shows, such as a Second-in-command trying
to check a monthly return of dripping, or a conscientious gunner calculating the correct corrector
corrections.

Should an application be received from any person anxious to experience war from the "Receipts"
end he would be granted free entry to the area on the far side of the line, protected grand-stands
being erected, from which, on suitable payment, spectators could study his deportment. A short
stay in the "enemy's area" during a strafe might be recommended for politicians and arranged
by their constituents.

Space forbids further detail. It remains only for a Company to be formed--affiliated perhaps
to the Bureau of Information--a detailed prospectus issued and applications invited for posts
under the Army of Entertainment, Ltd.

I shall myself be willing to serve the Company in the capacity of a Town Major on condition
that a suitable town is provided.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

WISE WORDS FOR BIRDS.

Dear Mr. Punch,--While lately turning over some old family papers I came across a number of
maxims in rhyme which seem to me to be worthy of publication at a time devoted to good cheer.
The form appears to be the same as that expressed in the familiar couplets on the woodcock
and the partridge; but these variations on an old theme have at least the merit of freshness
and originality.

I begin in order of magnitude with the ostrich:--

  "If an ostrich had but a woodcock's thigh
  It would only be some three feet high.
  If a woodcock had but an ostrich's jaw
  It would have to be carved with a circular saw."

The foregoing lines clearly enforce the important lesson of contentment with the existing order.
This moral is perhaps less implicit in the lines on the peacock:--

  "If a peacock had but the nightingale's trill
  It would make all prima donnas feel ill.
  If the nightingale had but the peacock's tail
  It would merit a headline in the Mail."

Contentment again is the keynote of the couplets on the owl:--

  "If an owl would enter the nuthatch's nest
  Its figure would have to be much compressed.
  If the nuthatch had but the face of an owl
  It would be a most unpopular fowl."

A slightly different formula is to be noted in the lines on the snipe, but the spirit is substantially
the same:--

  "If a snipe were the size of a threepenny bit
  It would be a great deal harder to hit.
  But if it grew to the size of an emu
  It wouldn't be better to eat than seamew."

Lastly I may quote the only couplet in which beasts as well as birds are subjected to this
searching analysis. I think you will admit that it is the most sagacious and impressive of
them all:--

  "If a pig had wings and the legs of a stork
  It would damage the quality of its pork,"

Thine, MCDOUGALL POTT.

Poets' Corner House, Dottyville.

       *       *       *       *       *

    "As a result of trying to find an escape of gas with a light, a
    flat in Westminster was seriously damaged."--Provincial Paper.

Serve him right.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPORTS.

The other day I was looking through some school reports. Holidays always bring them forth.
You know the kind of thing: History--Is most diligent but needs concentration; Music--Lacks
purposefulness, does not practise sufficiently; Mathematics--Weak; General Conduct--Might be
better; Conversational French--Sera plus facile avec plus de confiance; Theology--A sad falling
off; and so on; and it occurred to me that it might not be a bad thing if the report system,
instead of stopping with our school-days, pursued us through life. The periodical perusal of
a report, drawn up with as much authority as a scholastic staff possesses, might have very
beneficial results.

My own early ones no longer exist; but it would be a very searching test of our educational
system to study these reports thirty-five years after and subject them to an honest commentary.
How little that one learned then has persisted, has survived the probation of time and necessity.
At the age of fifteen I knew the principal rivers of South America ("Geography--Has made great
progress"); to-day at fifty I have no recollection of any, nor any desire to have it. Instead
I can order dinner. Gastronomy for geography; new lamps for old! In any report drawn up now
there would be a totally different series of subjects. Thus:--

  Business Method . . .  Might be better.
  Punctuality . . . . .  Tries his best.
  Patriotism  . . . . .  Good.
  Veracity  . . . . . .  Moderate.
  Financial Soundness .  Very variable.

As a means of constructive criticism the report system might be useful in Parliament. The Speaker,
as headmaster, should be entrusted with the task of preparing the documents. I can see some
such results as the following:--

  THE PRIME MINISTER.

  Logic . . . . . . . .  Weak.
  Opportunism . . . . .  Strong.
  Golf  . . . . . . . .  Shows little improvement.
  Belligerence  . . . .  Very good.
  Tonsorial Artistry  .  Far from satisfactory. Should give it
                         more attention.
  Oratory . . . . . . .  Fluent and powerful, but must guard
                         against impulse. Too fond in perorations
                         of drawing metaphors from Welsh
                         physical geography.

  MR. BONAR LAW.

  Mediation . . . . . .  Admirable, but must not be overworked.
  Oratory . . . . . . .  Fair. Has tendency to unnecessary candour.
                         Does not sufficiently employ periphrasis.
  Fidelity  . . . . . .  Beyond praise.

  MR. WINSTON CHURCHILL.

  Oratory . . . . . . .  Effective, if given enough time to prepare.
  Modesty . . . . . . .  Room for improvement.
  Polarity  . . . . . .  Weak.
  Ambition  . . . . . .  An honest worker.

Lastly, let us take the report sheet of one not wholly absent from the public eye, whom I will
designate merely by the initials W.W.

  Pride . . . . . . . .  Far less than he had two or three years ago.
  Facial beauty . . . .  More than adequate.
  Subrisivity . . . . .  Phenomenal.
  Oratory . . . . . . .  Admirable, but too fond of telling the
                         same story.
  Popularity  . . . . .  Could not be greater.

       *       *       *       *       *

HAIR-CUTTING AND DENTISTRY.

I am going to get my hair cut. But I must first mention the matter to my wife.

Why do I do this? It is not because I am a coward, for there are few men who are in reality
braver than I am. I carried my firstborn in my arms round the drawing-room when she was a week
old, and I have done other things equally brave, the enumeration of which I spare you. But
I could no more think of getting my hair cut without previously informing my wife than I could
think of wearing a top hat in the Strand.

I know what will happen when I have told my wife. She will look up and say, "That's right;
you always do it."

And I shall say, "What do I always do?"

And she will answer, "You always get yourself cropped like a convict just when your hair was
beginning to look nice."

And I shall say, "I can't help that; it's got to be done." And then I shall go and get it done.

But I wonder if my wife is right after all. There used to be a nice wave in my front hair,
a wave into which you could lay two fingers. Is that there still? No, it's gone. In fact there
is not sufficient front hair to make a wave with. It's odd how gradually these things happen.
I could have sworn that I had that wave, and there is a photograph of me in the drawing-room
with a fully-developed tidal bore; and I went on brushing my front hair and combing it and
thinking of it all the time as constituting a wave, and lo it had vanished, leaving me under
the impression that it was still there and accountable for the pleasing effect I produced in
general society.

But if it wasn't the wave that produced this effect, what could it have been? My voice? Perhaps.
My moustache? I doubt it. My teeth? Possibly. See advertisements of tooth powders passim. You
know how it's done, in the before and after style. Before you use Dentoline you apparently
do not possess so much as a front tooth. After you have used it once you are in possession
of thirty-two regular and brilliant white teeth, and it seems plain that no dentist will ever
make his fortune out of your mouth. All this, however, has nothing to do with getting my hair
cut. But it brings me to an analogous consideration. When I tell my wife I am going to get
my teeth attended to, does she try to restrain me from the fatal deed? Not she. She urges me
to it, and leaves me no loophole for escape. She indulges in reminiscences of herself and the
children defying pain in the dentist's chair, and heartens me with the statement that the instrument
she likes best is the one that goes berr-r-r-r and makes you jump.

Let me now resume my commentary on hair-cutting. I wonder if I am sufficiently chatty with
my hair-cutter. Most men talk to their hair-cutter all the time. They discuss politics and
revolutions and Britain's unconquerable might, while I, having made a blundering start with
the weather, am brought up with a round turn on the Bolsheviks and President WILSON'S manner
of dealing with the situation. I cannot lay bare my inmost thoughts about the League of Nations
while someone is running a miniature mowing-machine along the back of my neck ...

At this moment my wife entered the room.

"My dear," I said, "I am going to get my hair cut."

She gave me one mind-piercing look and said, "It's time you did. I've been noticing it for
the last day or two."

Nothing, you see, about convicts. Isn't that like a woman, never to say the thing you expect
her to say? It's taken all the pleasure out of my visit to the barber.