TO  MRS. LAURENCE HUTTON Wrentham, July 29, 1899. ...I passed in all the subjects I offered,
and with credit in advanced Latin.... But I must confess, I had a hard time on the second day
of my examinations. They would not allow Teacher to read any of the papers to me; so the papers
were copied for me in braille. This arrangement worked very well in the languages, but not
nearly so well in the Mathematics. Consequently, I did not do so well as I should have done,
if Teacher had been allowed to read the Algebra and Geometry to me. But you must not think
I blame any one. Of course they did not realize how difficult and perplexing they were making
the examinations for me. How could they--they can see and hear, and I suppose they could not
understand matters from my point of view....

Thus far my summer has been sweeter than anything I can remember. My mother, and sister and
little brother have been here five weeks, and our happiness knows no bounds. Not only do we
enjoy being together; but we also find our little home most delightful. I do wish you could
see the view of the beautiful lake from our piazza, the islands looking like little emerald
peaks in the golden sunlight, and the canoes flitting here and there, like autumn leaves in
the gentle breeze, and breathe in the peculiarly delicious fragrance of the woods, which comes
like a murmur from an unknown clime. I cannot help wondering if it is the same fragrance that
greeted the Norsemen long ago, when, according to tradition, they visited our shores--an odorous
echo of many centuries of silent growth and decay in flower and tree....

TO  MRS. SAMUEL RICHARD FULLER Wrentham, October 20, 1899. ...I suppose it is time for me to
tell you something about our plans for the winter. You know it has long been my ambition to
go to Radcliffe, and receive a degree, as many other girls have done; but Dean Irwin of Radcliffe,
has persuaded me to take a special course for the present. She said I had already shown the
world that I could do the college work, by passing all my examinations successfully, in spite
of many obstacles. She showed me how very foolish it would be for me to pursue a four years'
course of study at Radcliffe, simply to be like other girls, when I might better be cultivating
whatever ability I had for writing. She said she did not consider a degree of any real value,
but thought it was much more desirable to do something original than to waste one's energies
only for a degree. Her arguments seemed so wise and practical, that I could not but yield.
I found it hard, very hard, to give up the idea of going to college; it had been in my mind
ever since I was a little girl; but there is no use doing a foolish thing, because one has
wanted to do it a long time, is there?

But, while we were discussing plans for the winter, a suggestion which Dr. Hale had made long
ago flashed across Teacher's mind--that I might take courses somewhat like those offered at
Radcliffe, under the instruction of the professors in these courses. Miss Irwin seemed to have
no objection to this proposal, and kindly offered to see the professors and find out if they
would give me lessons. If they will be so good as to teach me and if we have money enough to
do as we have planned, my studies this year will be English, English Literature of the Elizabethan
period, Latin and German....

TO MR. JOHN HITZ 138 Brattle St., Cambridge, Nov. 11, 1899. ...As to the braille question,
I cannot tell how deeply it distresses me to hear that my statement with regard to the examinations
has been doubted. Ignorance seems to be at the bottom of all these contradictions. Why, you
yourself seem to think that I taught you American braille, when you do not know a single letter
in the system! I could not help laughing when you said you had been writing to me in American
braille--and there you were writing your letter in English braille!

The facts about the braille examinations are as follows:

How I passed my Entrance Examinations for Radcliffe College.

However, the braille worked well enough in the languages; but when it came to Geometry and
Algebra, it was different. I was sorely perplexed, and felt quite discouraged, and wasted much
precious time, especially in Algebra. It is true that I am perfectly familiar with all literary
braille--English, American, and New York Point; but the method of writing the various signs
used in Geometry and Algebra in the three systems is very different, and two days before the
examinations I knew only the English method. I had used it all through my school work, and
never any other system.

In Geometry, my chief difficulty was, that I had always been accustomed to reading the propositions
in Line Print, or having them spelled into my hand; and somehow, although the propositions
were right before me, yet the braille confused me, and I could not fix in my mind clearly what
I was reading. But, when I took up Algebra, I had a harder time still--I was terribly handicapped
by my imperfect knowledge of the notation. The signs, which I had learned the day before, and
which I thought I knew perfectly, confused me. Consequently my work was painfully slow, and
I was obliged to read the examples over and over before I could form a clear idea what I was
required to do. Indeed, I am not sure now that I read all the signs correctly, especially as
I was much distressed, and found it very hard to keep my wits about me....

Now there is one more fact, which I wish to state very plainly, in regard to what Mr. Gilman
wrote to you. I never received any direct instruction in the Gilman School. Miss Sullivan always
sat beside me, and told me what the teachers said. I did teach Miss Hall, my teacher in Physics,
how to write the American braille, but she never gave me any instruction by means of it, unless
a few problems written for practice, which made me waste much precious time deciphering them,
can be called instruction. Dear Frau Grote learned the manual alphabet, and used to teach me
herself; but this was in private lessons, which were paid for by my friends. In the German
class Miss Sullivan interpreted to me as well as she could what the teacher said.

Perhaps, if you would send a copy of this to the head of the Cambridge School, it might enlighten
his mind on a few subjects, on which he seems to be in total darkness just now....

TO MISS MILDRED KELLER 138 Brattle Street, Cambridge, November 26, 1899. ...At last we are
settled for the winter, and our work is going smoothly. Mr. Keith comes every afternoon at
four o'clock, and gives me a "friendly lift" over the rough stretches of road, over which every
student must go. I am studying English history, English literature, French and Latin, and by
and by I shall take up German and English composition--let us groan! You know, I detest grammar
as much as you do; but I suppose I must go through it if I am to write, just as we had to get
ducked in the lake hundreds of times before we could swim! In French Teacher is reading "Columba"
to me. It is a delightful novel, full of piquant expressions and thrilling adventures, (don't
dare to blame me for using big words, since you do the same!) and, if you ever read it, I think
you will enjoy it immensely. You are studying English history, aren't you. O but it's exceedingly
interesting! I'm making quite a thorough study of the Elizabethan period--of the Reformation,
and the Acts of Supremacy and Conformity, and the maritime discoveries, and all the big things,
which the "deuce" seems to have invented to plague innocent youngsters like yourself!...

Now we have a swell winter outfit--coats, hats, gowns, flannels and all. We've just had four
lovely dresses made by a French dressmaker. I have two, of which one has a black silk skirt,
with a black lace net over it, and a waist of white poplin, with turquoise velvet and chiffon,
and cream lace over a satin yoke. The other is woollen, and of a very pretty green. The waist
is trimmed with pink and green brocaded velvet, and white lace, I think, and has double reefers
on the front, tucked and trimmed with velvet, and also a row of tiny white buttons. Teacher
too has a silk dress. The skirt is black, while the waist is mostly yellow, trimmed with delicate
lavender chiffon, and black velvet bows and lace. Her other dress is purple, trimmed with purple
velvet, and the waist has a collar of cream lace. So you may imagine that we look quite like
peacocks, only we've no trains....

A week ago yesterday there was [a] great football game between Harvard and Yale, and there
was tremendous excitement here. We could hear the yells of the boys and the cheers of the lookers-on
as plainly in our room as if we had been on the field. Colonel Roosevelt was there, on Harvard's
side; but bless you, he wore a white sweater, and no crimson that we know of! There were about
twenty-five thousand people at the game, and, when we went out, the noise was so terrific,
we nearly jumped out of our skins, thinking it was the din of war, and not of a football game
that we heard. But, in spite of all their wild efforts, neither side was scored, and we all
laughed and said, "Oh, well now the pot can't call the kettle black!"...

TO  MRS. LAURENCE HUTTON 559 Madison Avenue, New York, January 2, 1900. ...We have been here
a week now, and are going to stay with Miss Rhoades until Saturday. We are enjoying every moment
of our visit, every one is so good to us. We have seen many of our old friends, and made some
new ones. We dined with the Rogers last Friday, and oh, they were so kind to us! The thought
of their gentle courtesy and genuine kindness brings a warm glow of joy and gratitude to my
heart. I have seen Dr. Greer too. He has such a kind heart! I love him more than ever. We went
to St. Bartholomew's Sunday, and I have not felt so much at home in a church since dear Bishop
Brooks died. Dr. Greer read so slowly, that my teacher could tell me every word. His people
must have wondered at his unusual deliberation. After the service he asked Mr. Warren, the
organist to play for me. I stood in the middle of the church, where the vibrations from the
great organ were strongest, and I felt the mighty waves of sound beat against me, as the great
billows beat against a little ship at sea.

TO MR. JOHN HITZ 138 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Feb. 3, 1900. ...My studies are more interesting
than ever. In Latin, I am reading Horace's odes. Although I find them difficult to translate,
yet I think they are the loveliest pieces of Latin poetry I have read or shall ever read. In
French we have finished "Colomba," and I am reading "Horace" by Corneille and La Fontaine's
fables, both of which are in braille. I have not gone far in either; but I know I shall enjoy
the fables, they are so delightfully written, and give such good lessons in a simple and yet
attractive way. I do not think I have told you that my dear teacher is reading "The Faery Queen"
to me. I am afraid I find fault with the poem as much as I enjoy it. I do not care much for
the allegories, indeed I often find them tiresome, and I cannot help thinking that Spenser's
world of knights, paynims, fairies, dragons and all sorts of strange creatures is a somewhat
grotesque and amusing world; but the poem itself is lovely and as musical as a running brook.

I am now the proud owner of about fifteen new books, which we ordered from Louisville. Among
them are "Henry Esmond," "Bacon's Essays" and extracts from "English Literature." Perhaps next
week I shall have some more books, "The Tempest," "A Midsummer Night's Dream" and possibly
some selections from Green's history of England. Am I not very fortunate?

I am afraid this letter savors too much of books--but really they make up my whole life these
days, and I scarcely see or hear of anything else! I do believe I sleep on books every night!
You know a student's life is of necessity somewhat circumscribed and narrow and crowds out
almost everything that is not in books....

TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE ACADEMIC BOARD OF RADCLIFFE COLLEGE 138 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
May 5, 1900. Dear Sir: As an aid to me in determining my plans for study the coming year, I
apply to you for information as to the possibility of my taking the regular courses in Radcliffe
College.

Since receiving my certificate of admission to Radcliffe last July, I have been studying with
a private tutor, Horace, Aeschylus, French, German, Rhetoric, English History, English Literature
and Criticism, and English composition.

In college I should wish to continue most, if not all of these subjects. The conditions under
which I work require the presence of Miss Sullivan, who has been my teacher and companion for
thirteen years, as an interpreter of oral speech and as a reader of examination papers. In
college she, or possibly in some subjects some one else, would of necessity be with me in the
lecture-room and at recitations. I should do all my written work on a typewriter, and if a
Professor could not understand my speech, I could write out my answers to his questions and
hand them to him after the recitation.

Is it possible for the College to accommodate itself to these unprecedented conditions, so
as to enable me to pursue my studies at Radcliffe? I realize that the obstacles in the way
of my receiving a college education are very great--to others they may seem insurmountable;
but, dear Sir, a true soldier does not acknowledge defeat before the battle.

TO  MRS. LAURENCE HUTTON 38 Brattle Street, Cambridge, June 9, 1900. ...I have not yet heard
from the Academic Board in reply to my letter; but I sincerely hope they will answer favorably.
My friends think it very strange that they should hesitate so long, especially when I have
not asked them to simplify my work in the least, but only to modify it so as to meet the existing
circumstances. Cornell has offered to make arrangements suited to the conditions under which
I work, if I should decide to go to that college, and the University of Chicago has made a
similar offer, but I am afraid if I went to any other college, it would be thought that I did
not pass my examinations for Radcliffe satisfactorily....

In the fall Miss Keller entered Radcliffe College.

TO MR. JOHN HITZ 14 Coolidge Ave., Cambridge, Nov. 26, 1900. ...-- has already communicated
with you in regard to her and my plan of establishing an institution for deaf and blind children.
At first I was most enthusiastic in its support, and I never dreamed that any grave objections
could be raised except indeed by those who are hostile to Teacher, but now, after thinking
most SERIOUSLY and consulting my friends, I have decided that --'s plan is by no means feasible.
In my eagerness to make it possible for deaf and blind children to have the same advantages
that I have had, I quite forgot that there might be many obstacles in the way of my accomplishing
anything like what -- proposed.

My friends thought we might have one or two pupils in our own home, thereby securing to me
the advantage of being helpful to others without any of the disadvantages of a large school.
They were very kind; but I could not help feeling that they spoke more from a business than
a humanitarian point of view. I am sure they did not quite understand how passionately I desire
that all who are afflicted like myself shall receive their rightful inheritance of thought,
knowledge and love. Still I could not shut my eyes to the force and weight of their arguments,
and I saw plainly that I must abandon --'s scheme as impracticable. They also said that I ought
to appoint an advisory committee to control my affairs while I am at Radcliffe. I considered
this suggestion carefully, then I told Mr. Rhoades that I should be proud and glad to have
wise friends to whom I could always turn for advice in all important matters. For this committee
I chose six, my mother, Teacher, because she is like a mother to me, Mrs. Hutton, Mr. Rhoades,
Dr. Greer and Mr. Rogers, because it is they who have supported me all these years and made
it possible for me to enter college. Mrs. Hutton had already written to mother, asking her
to telegraph if she was willing for me to have other advisers besides herself and Teacher.
This morning we received word that mother had given her consent to this arrangement. Now it
remains for me to write to Dr. Greer and Mr. Rogers....

We had a long talk with Dr. Bell. Finally he proposed a plan which delighted us all beyond
words. He said that it was a gigantic blunder to attempt to found a school for deaf and blind
children, because then they would lose the most precious opportunities of entering into the
fuller, richer, freer life of seeing and hearing children. I had had misgivings on this point;
but I could not see how we were to help it. However Mr. Bell suggested that -- and all her
friends who are interested in her scheme should organize an association for the promotion of
the education of the deaf and blind, Teacher and myself being included of course. Under his
plan they were to appoint Teacher to train others to instruct deaf and blind children in their
own homes, just as she had taught me. Funds were to be raised for the teachers' lodgings and
also for their salaries. At the same time Dr. Bell added that I could rest content and fight
my way through Radcliffe in competition with seeing and hearing girls, while the great desire
of my heart was being fulfilled. We clapped our hands and shouted; -- went away beaming with
pleasure, and Teacher and I felt more light of heart than we had for sometime. Of course we
can do nothing just now; but the painful anxiety about my college work and the future welfare
of the deaf and blind has been lifted from our minds. Do tell me what you think about Dr. Bell's
suggestion. It seems most practical and wise to me; but I must know all that there is to be
known about it before I speak or act in the matter....

TO MR. JOHN D. WRIGHT Cambridge, December 9, 1900. Do you think me a villain and--I can't think
of a word bad enough to express your opinion of me, unless indeed horse-thief will answer the
purpose. Tell me truly, do you think me as bad as that? I hope not; for I have thought many
letters to you which never got on paper, and I am delighted to get your good letter, yes, I
really was, and I intended to answer it immediately, but the days slip by unnoticed when one
is busy, and I have been VERY busy this fall. You must believe that. Radcliffe girls are always
up to their ears in work. If you doubt it, you'd better come and see for yourself.

Yes, I am taking the regular college course for a degree. When I am a B.A., I suppose you will
not dare call me a villain! I am studying English--Sophomore English, if you please, (though
I can't see that it is different from just plain English) German, French and History. I'm enjoying
my work even more than I expected to, which is another way of saying that I'm glad I came.
It is hard, very hard at times; but it hasn't swamped me yet. No, I am not studying Mathematics,
or Greek or Latin either. The courses at Radcliffe are elective, only certain courses in English
are prescribed. I passed off my English and advanced French before I entered college, and I
choose the courses I like best. I don't however intend to give up Latin and Greek entirely.
Perhaps I shall take up these studies later; but I've said goodbye to Mathematics forever,
and I assure you, I was delighted to see the last of those horrid goblins! I hope to obtain
my degree in four years; but I'm not very particular about that. There's no great hurry, and
I want to get as much as possible out of my studies. Many of my friends would be well pleased
if I would take two or even one course a year, but I rather object to spending the rest of
my life in college....

TO MR. WILLIAM WADE 14 Coolidge Avenue, Cambridge, December 9, 1900. ...Since you are so much
interested in the deaf and blind, I will begin by telling you of several cases I have come
across lately. Last October I heard of an unusually bright little girl in Texas. Her name is
Ruby Rice, and she is thirteen years old, I think. She has never been taught; but they say
she can sew and likes to help others in this sort of work. Her sense of smell is wonderful.
Why, when she enters a store, she will go straight to the showcases, and she can also distinguish
her own things. Her parents are very anxious indeed to find a teacher for her. They have also
written to Mr. Hitz about her.

I also know a child at the Institution for the Deaf in Mississippi. Her name is Maud Scott,
and she is six years old. Miss Watkins, the lady who has charge of her wrote me a most interesting
letter. She said that Maud was born deaf and lost her sight when she was only three months
old, and that when she went to the Institution a few weeks ago, she was quite helpless. She
could not even walk and had very little use of her hands. When they tried to teach her to string
beads, her little hands fell to her side. Evidently her sense of touch has not been developed,
and as yet she can walk only when she holds some one's hand; but she seems to be an exceedingly
bright child. Miss Watkins adds that she is very pretty. I have written to her that when Maud
learns to read, I shall have many stories to send her. The dear, sweet little girl, it makes
my heart ache to think how utterly she is cut off from all that is good and desirable in life.
But Miss Watkins seems to be just the kind of teacher she needs.

I was in New York not long ago and I saw Miss Rhoades, who told me that she had seen Katie
McGirr. She said the poor young girl talked and acted exactly like a little child. Katie played
with Miss Rhoades's rings and took them away, saying with a merry laugh, "You shall not have
them again!" She could only understand Miss Rhoades when she talked about the simplest things.
The latter wished to send her some books; but she could not find anything simple enough for
her! She said Katie was very sweet indeed, but sadly in need of proper instruction. I was much
surprised to hear all this; for I judged from your letters that Katie was a very precocious
girl....

A few days ago I met Tommy Stringer in the railroad station at Wrentham. He is a great, strong
boy now, and he will soon need a man to take care of him; he is really too big for a lady to
manage. He goes to the public school, I hear, and his progress is astonishing, they say; but
it doesn't show as yet in his conversation, which is limited to "Yes" and "No."...

TO  MR. CHARLES T. COPELAND December 20, 1900. My dear Mr. Copeland; I venture to write to
you because I am afraid that if I do not explain why I have stopped writing themes, you will
think I have become discouraged, or perhaps that to escape criticism I have beat a cowardly
retreat from your class. Please do not think either of these very unpleasant thoughts. I am
not discouraged, nor am I afraid. I am confident that I could go on writing themes like those
I have written, and I suppose I should get through the course with fairly good marks; but this
sort of literary patch-work has lost all interest for me. I have never been satisfied with
my work; but I never knew what my difficulty was until you pointed it out to me. When I came
to your class last October, I was trying with all my might to be like everybody else, to forget
as entirely as possible my limitations and peculiar environment. Now, however, I see the folly
of attempting to hitch one's wagon to a star with harness that does not belong to it.

I have always accepted other peoples experiences and observations as a matter of course. It
never occurred to me that it might be worth while to make my own observations and describe
the experiences peculiarly my own. Henceforth I am resolved to be myself, to live my own life
and write my own thoughts when I have any. When I have written something that seems to be fresh
and spontaneous and worthy of your criticisms, I will bring it to you, if I may, and if you
think it good, I shall be happy; but if your verdict is unfavorable, I shall try again and
yet again until I have succeeded in pleasing you...

TO  MRS. LAURENCE HUTTON 14 Coolidge Avenue, Cambridge, December 27, 1900. ...So you read about
our class luncheon in the papers? How in the world do the papers find out everything, I wonder.
I am sure no reporter was present. I had a splendid time; the toasts and speeches were great
fun. I only spoke a few words, as I did not know I was expected to speak until a few minutes
before I was called upon. I think I wrote you that I had been elected Vice-President of the
Freshman Class of Radcliffe.

Did I tell you in my last letter that I had a new dress, a real party dress with low neck and
short sleeves and quite a train? It is pale blue, trimmed with chiffon of the same color. I
have worn it only once, but then I felt that Solomon in all his glory was not to be compared
with me! Anyway, he certainly never had a dress like mine!...

A gentleman in Philadelphia has just written to my teacher about a deaf and blind child in
Paris, whose parents are Poles. The mother is a physician and a brilliant woman, he says. This
little boy could speak two or three languages before he lost his hearing through sickness,
and he is now only about five years old. Poor little fellow, I wish I could do something for
him; but he is so young, my teacher thinks it would be too bad to separate him from his mother.
I have had a letter from Mrs. Thaw with regard to the possibility of doing something for these
children. Dr. Bell thinks the present census will show that there are more than a thousand
in the United States alone [The number of deaf-blind young enough to be benefited by education
is not so large as this; but the education of this class of defectives has been neglected.];
and Mrs. Thaw thinks if all my friends were to unite their efforts, "it would be an easy matter
to establish at the beginning of this new century a new line upon which mercy might travel,"
and the rescue of these unfortunate children could be accomplished....

TO MR. WILLIAM WADE Cambridge, February 2, 1901. ...By the way, have you any specimens of English
braille especially printed for those who have lost their sight late in life or have fingers
hardened by long toil, so that their touch is less sensitive than that of other blind people?
I read an account of such a system in one of my English magazines, and I am anxious to know
more about it. If it is as efficient as they say, I see no reason why English braille should
not be adopted by the blind of all countries. Why, it is the print that can be most readily
adapted to many different languages. Even Greek can be embossed in it, as you know. Then, too,
it will be rendered still more efficient by the "interpointing system," which will save an
immense amount of space and paper. There is nothing more absurd, I think, than to have five
or six different prints for the blind....

This letter was written in response to a tentative offer from the editor of The Great Round
World to have the magazine published in raised type for the blind, if enough were willing to
subscribe. It is evident that the blind should have a good magazine, not a special magazine
for the blind, but one of our best monthlies, printed in embossed letters. The blind alone
could not support it, but it would not take very much money to make up the additional expense.

To THE GREAT ROUND WORLD Cambridge, Feb. 16, 1901. The Great Round World, New York City. Gentlemen:
I have only to-day found time to reply to your interesting letter. A little bird had already
sung the good news in my ear; but it was doubly pleasant to have it straight from you.

It would be splendid to have The Great Round World printed in "language that can be felt."
I doubt if any one who enjoys the wondrous privilege of seeing can have any conception of the
boon such a publication as you contemplate would be to the sightless. To be able to read for
one's self what is being willed, thought and done in the world--the world in whose joys and
sorrows, failures and successes one feels the keenest interest--that would indeed be a happiness
too deep for words. I trust that the effort of The Great Round World to bring light to those
who sit in darkness will receive the encouragement and support it so richly deserves.

I doubt, however, if the number of subscribers to an embossed edition of The Great Round World
would ever be large; for I am told that the blind as a class are poor. But why should not the
friends of the blind assist The Great Round World, if necessary? Surely there are hearts and
hands ever ready to make it possible for generous intentions to be wrought into noble deeds.

Wishing you godspeed in an undertaking that is very dear to my heart, I am, etc.

TO MISS NINA RHOADES Cambridge, Sept. 25, 1901. ...We remained in Halifax until about the middle
of August.... Day after day the Harbor, the warships, and the park kept us busy thinking and
feeling and enjoying.... When the Indiana visited Halifax, we were invited to go on board,
and she sent her own launch for us. I touched the immense cannon, read with my fingers several
of the names of the Spanish ships that were captured at Santiago, and felt the places where
she had been pierced with shells. The Indiana was the largest and finest ship in the Harbor,
and we felt very proud of her.

After we left Halifax, we visited Dr. Bell at Cape Breton. He has a charming, romantic house
on a mountain called Beinn Bhreagh, which overlooks the Bras d'Or Lake....

Dr. Bell told me many interesting things about his work. He had just constructed a boat that
could be propelled by a kite with the wind in its favor, and one day he tried experiments to
see if he could steer the kite against the wind. I was there and really helped him fly the
kites. On one of them I noticed that the strings were of wire, and having had some experience
in bead work, I said I thought they would break. Dr. Bell said "No!" with great confidence,
and the kite was sent up. It began to pull and tug, and lo, the wires broke, and off went the
great red dragon, and poor Dr. Bell stood looking forlornly after it. After that he asked me
if the strings were all right and changed them at once when I answered in the negative. Altogether
we had great fun....

TO DR. EDWARD EVERETT HALE [Read by Dr. Hale at the celebration of the centenary of Dr. Samuel
Gridley Howe, at Tremont Temple, Boston, Nov. 11, 1901.] Cambridge, Nov. 10, 1901. My teacher
and I expect to be present at the meeting tomorrow in commemoration of the one hundredth anniversary
of Dr. Howe's birth; but I very much doubt if we shall have an opportunity to speak with you;
so I am writing now to tell you how delighted I am that you are to speak at the meeting, because
I feel that you, better than any one I know will express the heartfelt gratitude of those who
owe their education, their opportunities, their happiness to him who opened the eyes of the
blind and gave the dumb lip language.

Sitting here in my study, surrounded by my books, enjoying the sweet and intimate companionship
of the great and the wise, I am trying to realize what my life might have been, if Dr. Howe
had failed in the great task God gave him to perform. If he had not taken upon himself the
responsibility of Laura Bridgman's education and led her out of the pit of Acheron back to
her human inheritance, should I be a sophomore at Radcliffe College to-day--who can say? But
it is idle to speculate about what might have been in connection with Dr. Howe's great achievement.

I think only those who have escaped that death-in-life existence, from which Laura Bridgman
was rescued, can realize how isolated, how shrouded in darkness, how cramped by its own impotence
is a soul without thought or faith or hope. Words are powerless to describe the desolation
of that prison-house, or the joy of the soul that is delivered out of its captivity. When we
compare the needs and helplessness of the blind before Dr. Howe began his work, with their
present usefulness and independence, we realize that great things have been done in our midst.
What if physical conditions have built up high walls about us? Thanks to our friend and helper,
our world lies upward; the length and breadth and sweep of the heavens are ours!

It is pleasant to think that Dr. Howe's noble deeds will receive their due tribute of affection
and gratitude, in the city, which was the scene of his great labors and splendid victories
for humanity.

With kind greetings, in which my teacher joins me, I am Affectionately your friend, HELEN KELLER.

TO THE HON. GEORGE FRISBIE HOAR Cambridge, Mass., November 25, 1901. My Dear Senator Hoar:--
I am glad you liked my letter about Dr. Howe. It was written out of my heart, and perhaps that
is why it met a sympathetic response in other hearts. I will ask Dr. Hale to lend me the letter,
so that I can make a copy of it for you.

You see, I use a typewriter--it is my right hand man, so to speak. Without it I do not see
how I could go to college. I write all my themes and examinations on it, even Greek. Indeed,
it has only one drawback, and that probably is regarded as an advantage by the professors;
it is that one's mistakes may be detected at a glance; for there is no chance to hide them
in illegible writing.

I know you will be amused when I tell you that I am deeply interested in politics. I like to
have the papers read to me, and I try to understand the great questions of the day; but I am
afraid my knowledge is very unstable; for I change my opinions with every new book I read.
What is remarkable in her career is already accomplished, and whatever she may do in the future
will be but a relatively slight addition to the success which distinguishes her now. That success
has just been assured, for it is her work at Radcliffe during the last two years which has
shown that she can carry her education as far as if she were studying under normal conditions.
Whatever doubts Miss Keller herself may have had are now at rest.

Several passages of her autobiography, as it appeared in serial form, have been made the subject
of a grave editorial in a Boston newspaper, in which the writer regretted Miss Keller's apparent
disillusionment in regard to the value of her college life. He quoted the passages in which
she explains that college is not the "universal Athens" she had hoped to find, and cited the
cases of other remarkable persons whose college life had proved disappointing. But it is to
be remembered that Miss Keller has written many things in her autobiography for the fun of
writing them, and the disillusion, which the writer of the editorial took seriously, is in
great part humorous. Miss Keller does not suppose her views to be of great importance, and
when she utters her opinions on important matters she takes it for granted that her reader
will receive them as the opinions of a junior in college, not of one who writes with the wisdom
of maturity. For instance, it surprised her that some people were annoyed at what she said
about the Bible, and she was amused that they did not see, what was plain enough, that she
had been obliged to read the whole Bible in a course in English literature, not as a religious
duty put upon her by her teacher or her parents.

I ought to apologize to the reader and to Miss Keller for presuming to say what her subject
matter is worth, but one more explanation is necessary. In her account of her early education
Miss Keller is not giving a scientifically accurate record of her life, nor even of the important
events. She cannot know in detail how she was taught, and her memory of her childhood is in
some cases an idealized memory of what she has learned later from her teacher and others. She
is less able to recall events of fifteen years ago than most of us are to recollect our childhood.
That is why her teacher's records may be found to differ in some particulars from Miss Keller's
account.

The way in which Miss Keller wrote her story shows, as nothing else can show, the difficulties
she had to overcome. When we write, we can go back over our work, shuffle the pages, interline,
rearrange, see how the paragraphs look in proof, and so construct the whole work before the
eye, as an architect constructs his plans. When Miss Keller puts her work in typewritten form,
she cannot refer to it again unless some one reads it to her by means of the manual alphabet.

This difficulty is in part obviated by the use of her braille machine, which makes a manuscript
that she can read; but as her work must be put ultimately in typewritten form, and as a braille
machine is somewhat cumbersome, she has got into the habit of writing directly on her typewriter.
She depends so little on her braille manuscript, that, when she began to write her story more
than a year ago and had put in braille a hundred pages of material and notes, she made the
mistake of destroying these notes before she had finished her manuscript. Thus she composed
much of her story on the typewriter, and in constructing it as a whole depended on her memory
to guide her in putting together the detached episodes, which Miss Sullivan read over to her.

Last July, when she had finished under great pressure of work her final chapter, she set to
work to rewrite the whole story. Her good friend, Mr. William Wade, had a complete braille
copy made for her from the magazine proofs. Then for the first time she had her whole manuscript
under her finger at once. She saw imperfections in the arrangement of paragraphs and the repetition
of phrases. She saw, too, that her story properly fell into short chapters and redivided it.

Partly from temperament, partly from the conditions of her work, she has written rather a series
of brilliant passages than a unified narrative; in point of fact, several paragraphs of her
story are short themes written in her English courses, and the small unit sometimes shows its
original limits.

In rewriting the story, Miss Keller made corrections on separate pages on her braille machine.
Long corrections she wrote out on her typewriter, with catch-words to indicate where they belonged.
Then she read from her braille copy the entire story, making corrections as she read, which
were taken down on the manuscript that went to the printer. During this revision she discussed
questions of subject matter and phrasing. She sat running her finger over the braille manuscript,
stopping now and then to refer to the braille notes on which she had indicated her corrections,
all the time reading aloud to verify the manuscript.

She listened to criticism just as any author listens to his friends or his editor. Miss Sullivan,
who is an excellent critic, made suggestions at many points in the course of composition and
revision. One newspaper suggested that Miss Keller had been led into writing the book and had
been influenced to put certain things into it by zealous friends. As a matter of fact, most
of the advice she has received and heeded has led to excisions rather than to additions. The
book is Miss Keller's and is final proof of her independent power.

CHAPTER II. PERSONALITY

Mark Twain has said that the two most interesting characters of the nineteenth century are
Napoleon and Helen Keller. The admiration with which the world has regarded her is more than
justified by what she has done. No one can tell any great truth about her which has not already
been written, and all that I can do is to give a few more facts about Miss Keller's work and
add a little to what is known of her personality.

Miss Keller is tall and strongly built, and has always had good health. She seems to be more
nervous than she really is, because she expresses more with her hands than do most English-speaking
people. One reason for this habit of gesture is that her hands have been so long her instruments
of communication that they have taken to themselves the quick shiftings of the eye, and express
some of the things that we say in a glance. All deaf people naturally gesticulate. Indeed,
at one time it was believed that the best way for them to communicate was through systematized
gestures, the sign language invented by the Abbe de l'Epee.

When Miss Keller speaks, her face is animated and expresses all the modes of her thought--the
expressions that make the features eloquent and give speech half its meaning. On the other
hand she does not know another's expression. When she is talking with an intimate friend, however,
her hand goes quickly to her friend's face to see, as she says, "the twist of the mouth." In
this way she is able to get the meaning of those half sentences which we complete unconsciously
from the tone of the voice or the twinkle of the eye.

Her memory of people is remarkable. She remembers the grasp of fingers she has held before,
all the characteristic tightening of the muscles that makes one person's handshake different
from that of another.

The trait most characteristic, perhaps, of Miss Keller (and also of Miss Sullivan) is humour.
Skill in the use of words and her habit of playing with them make her ready with mots and epigrams.

Some one asked her if she liked to study.

"Yes," she replied, "but I like to play also, and I feel sometimes as if I were a music box
with all the play shut up inside me."

When she met Dr. Furness, the Shakespearean scholar, he warned her not to let the college professors
tell her too many assumed facts about the life of Shakespeare; all we know, he said, is that
Shakespeare was baptized, married, and died.

"Well," she replied, "he seems to have done all the essential things."

Once a friend who was learning the manual alphabet kept making "g," which is like the hand
of a sign-post, for "h," which is made with two fingers extended. Finally Miss Keller told
him to "fire both barrels."

Mr. Joseph Jefferson was once explaining to Miss Keller what the bumps on her head meant.

"That," he said, "is your prize-fighting bump."

"I never fight," she replied, "except against difficulties."

Miss Keller's humour is that deeper kind of humour which is courage.

Thirteen years ago she made up her mind to learn to speak, and she gave her teacher no rest
until she was allowed to take lessons, although wise people, even Miss Sullivan, the wisest
of them all, regarded it as an experiment unlikely to succeed and almost sure to make her unhappy.
It was this same perseverance that made her go to college. After she had passed her examinations
and received her certificate of admission, she was advised by the Dean of Radcliffe and others
not to go on. She accordingly delayed a year. But she was not satisfied until she had carried
out her purpose and entered college.

Her life has been a series of attempts to do whatever other people do, and to do it as well.
Her success has been complete, for in trying to be like other people she has come most fully
to be herself. Her unwillingness to be beaten has developed her courage. Where another can
go, she can go. Her respect for physical bravery is like Stevenson's--the boy's contempt for
the fellow who cries, with a touch of young bravado in it. She takes tramps in the woods, plunging
through the underbrush, where she is scratched and bruised; yet you could not get her to admit
that she is hurt, and you certainly could not persuade her to stay at home next time.

So when people try experiments with her, she displays a sportsmanlike determination to win
in any test, however unreasonable, that one may wish to put her to.

If she does not know the answer to a question, she guesses with mischievous assurance. Ask
her the colour of your coat (no blind person can tell colour), she will feel it and say "black."
If it happens to be blue, and you tell her so triumphantly, she is likely to answer, "Thank
you. I am glad you know. Why did you ask me?"

Her whimsical and adventuresome spirit puts her so much on her mettle that she makes rather
a poor subject for the psychological experimenter. Moreover, Miss Sullivan does not see why
Miss Keller should be subjected to the investigation of the scientist, and has not herself
made many experiments. When a psychologist asked her if Miss Keller spelled on her fingers
in her sleep, Miss Sullivan replied that she did not think it worth while to sit up and watch,
such matters were of so little consequence.

Miss Keller likes to be part of the company. If any one whom she is touching laughs at a joke,
she laughs, too, just as if she had heard it. If others are aglow with music, a responding
glow, caught sympathetically, shines in her face. Indeed, she feels the movements of Miss Sullivan
so minutely that she responds to her moods, and so she seems to know what is going on, even
though the conversation has not been spelled to her for some time. In the same way her response
to music is in part sympathetic, although she enjoys it for its own sake.

Music probably can mean little to her but beat and pulsation. She cannot sing and she cannot
play the piano, although, as some early experiments show, she could learn mechanically to beat
out a tune on the keys. Her enjoyment of music, however, is very genuine, for she has a tactile
recognition of sound when the waves of air beat against her. Part of her experience of the
rhythm of music comes, no doubt, from the vibration of solid objects which she is touching:
the floor, or, what is more evident, the case of the piano, on which her hand rests. But she
seems to feel the pulsation of the air itself. When the organ was played for her in St. Bartholomew's,
the whole building shook with the great pedal notes, but that does not altogether account for
what she felt and enjoyed. The vibration of the air as the organ notes swelled made her sway
in answer. Sometimes she puts her hand on a singer's throat to feel the muscular thrill and
contraction, and from this she gets genuine pleasure. No one knows, however, just what her
sensations are. It is amusing to read in one of the magazines of 1895 that Miss Keller "has
a just and intelligent appreciation of different composers from having literally felt their
music, Schumann being her favourite." If she knows the difference between Schumann and Beethoven,
it is because she has read it, and if she has read it, she remembers it and can tell any one
who asks her.

Miss Keller's effort to reach out and meet other people on their own intellectual ground has
kept her informed of daily affairs. When her education became more systematic and she was busy
with books, it would have been very easy for Miss Sullivan to let her draw into herself, if
she had been so inclined. But every one who has met her has given his best ideas to her and
she has taken them. If, in the course of a conversation, the friend next to her has ceased
for some moments to spell into her hand, the question comes inevitably, "What are you talking
about?" Thus she picks up the fragments of the daily intercourse of normal people, so that
her detailed information is singularly full and accurate. She is a good talker on the little
occasional affairs of life.

Much of her knowledge comes to her directly. When she is out walking she often stops suddenly,
attracted by the odour of a bit of shrubbery. She reaches out and touches the leaves, and the
world of growing things is hers, as truly as it is ours, to enjoy while she holds the leaves
in her fingers and smells the blossoms, and to remember when the walk is done.

When she is in a new place, especially an interesting place like Niagara, whoever accompanies
her--usually, of course, Miss Sullivan--is kept busy giving her an idea of visible details.
Miss Sullivan, who knows her pupil's mind, selects from the passing landscape essential elements,
which give a certain clearness to Miss Keller's imagined view of an outer world that to our
eyes is confused and overloaded with particulars. If her companion does not give her enough
details, Miss Keller asks questions until she has completed the view to her satisfaction.

She does not see with her eyes, but through the inner faculty to serve which eyes were given
to us. When she returns from a walk and tells some one about it, her descriptions are accurate
and vivid. A comparative experience drawn from written descriptions and from her teacher's
words has kept her free from errors in her use of terms of sound and vision. True, her view
of life is highly coloured and full of poetic exaggeration; the universe, as she sees it, is
no doubt a little better than it really is. But her knowledge of it is not so incomplete as
one might suppose. Occasionally she astonishes you by ignorance of some fact which no one happens
to have told her; for instance, she did not know, until her first plunge into the sea, that
it is salt. Many of the detached incidents and facts of our daily life pass around and over
her unobserved; but she has enough detailed acquaintance with the world to keep her view of
it from being essentially defective.

Most that she knows at first hand comes from her sense of touch. This sense is not, however,
so finely developed as in some other blind people. Laura Bridgman could tell minute shades
of difference in the size of thread, and made beautiful lace. Miss Keller used to knit and
crochet, but she has had better things to do. With her varied powers and accomplishments, her
sense of touch has not been used enough to develop it very far beyond normal acuteness. A friend
tried Miss Keller one day with several coins. She was slower than he expected her to be in
identifying them by their relative weight and size. But it should be said she almost never
handles money--one of the many sordid and petty details of life, by the way, which she has
been spared.

She recognizes the subject and general intention of a statuette six inches high. Anything shallower
than a half-inch bas-relief is a blank to her, so far as it expresses an idea of beauty. Large
statues, of which she can feel the sweep of line with her whole hand, she knows in their higher
esthetic value. She suggests herself that she can know them better than we do, because she
can get the true dimensions and appreciate more immediately the solid nature of a sculptured
figure. When she was at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston she stood on a step-ladder and let
both hands play over the statues. When she felt a bas-relief of dancing girls she asked, "Where
are the singers?" When she found them she said, "One is silent." The lips of the singer were
closed.

It is, however, in her daily life that one can best measure the delicacy of her senses and
her manual skill. She seems to have very little sense of direction. She gropes her way without
much certainty in rooms where she is quite familiar. Most blind people are aided by the sense
of sound, so that a fair comparison is hard to make, except with other deaf-blind persons.
Her dexterity is not notable either in comparison with the normal person, whose movements are
guided by the eye, or, I am told, with other blind people. She has practised no single constructive
craft which would call for the use of her hands. When she was twelve, her friend Mr. Albert
H. Munsell, the artist, let her experiment with a wax tablet and a stylus. He says that she
did pretty well and managed to make, after models, some conventional designs of the outlines
of leaves and rosettes. The only thing she does which requires skill with the hands is her
work on the typewriter. Although she has used the typewriter since she was eleven years old,
she is rather careful than rapid. She writes with fair speed and absolute sureness. Her manuscripts
seldom contain typographical errors when she hands them to Miss Sullivan to read. Her typewriter
has no special attachments. She keeps the relative position of the keys by an occasional touch
of the little finger on the outer edge of the board.

Miss Keller's reading of the manual alphabet by her sense of touch seems to cause some perplexity.
Even people who know her fairly well have written in the magazines about Miss Sullivan's "mysterious
telegraphic communications" with her pupil. The manual alphabet is that in use among all educated
deaf people. Most dictionaries contain an engraving of the manual letters. The deaf person
with sight looks at the fingers of his companion, but it is also possible to feel them. Miss
Keller puts her fingers lightly over the hand of one who is talking to her and gets the words
as rapidly as they can be spelled. As she explains, she is not conscious of the single letters
or of separate words. Miss Sullivan and others who live constantly with the deaf can spell
very rapidly--fast enough to get a slow lecture, not fast enough to get every word of a rapid
speaker.

Anybody can learn the manual letters in a few minutes, use them slowly in a day, and in thirty
days of constant use talk to Miss Keller or any other deaf person without realizing what his
fingers are doing. If more people knew this, and the friends and relatives of deaf children
learned the manual alphabet at once the deaf all over the world would be happier and better
educated.

Miss Keller reads by means of embossed print or the various kinds of braille. The ordinary
embossed book is made with roman letters, both small letters and capitals. These letters are
of simple, square, angular design. The small letters are about three-sixteenths of an inch
high, and are raised from the page the thickness of the thumbnail. The books are large, about
the size of a volume of an encyclopedia. Green's "Short History of the English People" is in
six large volumes. The books are not heavy, because the leaves with the raised type do not
lie close. The time that one of Miss Keller's friends realizes most strongly that she is blind
is when he comes on her suddenly in the dark and hears the rustle of her fingers across the page.

The most convenient print for the blind is braille, which has several variations, too many,
indeed--English, American, New York Point. Miss Keller reads them all. Most educated blind
people know several, but it would save trouble if, as Miss Keller suggests, English braille
were universally adopted. The facsimile on page xv [omitted from etext] gives an idea of how
the raised dots look. Each character (either a letter or a special braille contraction) is
a combination made by varying in place and number points in six possible positions. Miss Keller
has a braille writer on which she keeps notes and writes letters to her blind friends. There
are six keys, and by pressing different combinations at a stroke (as one plays a chord on the
piano) the operator makes a character at a time in a sheet of thick paper, and can write about
half as rapidly as on a typewriter. Braille is especially useful in making single manuscript
copies of books.

Books for the blind are very limited in number. They cost a great deal to publish and they
have not a large enough sale to make them profitable to the publisher; but there are several
institutions with special funds to pay for embossed books. Miss Keller is more fortunate than
most blind people in the kindness of her friends who have books made especially for her, and
in the willingness of gentlemen, like Mr. E. E. Allen of the Pennsylvania Institute for the
Instruction of the Blind, to print, as he has on several occasions, editions of books that
she has needed.

Miss Keller does not as a rule read very fast, but she reads deliberately, not so much because
she feels the words less quickly than we see then, as because it is one of her habits of mind
to do things thoroughly and well. When a passage interests her, or she needs to remember it
for some future use, she flutters it off swiftly on the fingers of her right hand. Sometimes
this finger-play is unconscious. Miss Keller talks to herself absent-mindedly in the manual
alphabet. When she is walking up or down the hall or along the veranda, her hands go flying
along beside her like a confusion of birds' wings.

There is, I am told, tactile memory as well as visual and aural memory. Miss Sullivan says
that both she and Miss Keller remember "in their fingers" what they have said. For Miss Keller
to spell a sentence in the manual alphabet impresses it on her mind just as we learn a thing
from having heard it many times and can call back the memory of its sound.

Like every deaf or blind person, Miss Keller depends on her sense of smell to an unusual degree.
When she was a little girl she smelled everything and knew where she was, what neighbour's
house she was passing, by the distinctive odours. As her intellect grew she became less dependent
on this sense. To what extent she now identifies objects by their odour is hard to determine.
The sense of smell has fallen into disrepute, and a deaf person is reluctant to speak of it.
Miss Keller's acute sense of smell may account, however, in some part for that recognition
of persons and things which it has been customary to attribute to a special sense, or to an
unusual development of the power that we all seem to have of telling when some one is near.

The question of a special "sixth sense," such as people have ascribed. to Miss Keller, is a
delicate one. This much is certain, she cannot have any sense that other people may not have,
and the existence of a special sense is not evident to her or to any one who knows her. Miss
Keller is distinctly not a singular proof of occult and mysterious theories, and any attempt
to explain her in that way fails to reckon with her normality. She is no more mysterious and
complex than any other person. All that she is, all that she has done, can be explained directly,
except such things in every human being as never can be explained. She does not, it would seem,
prove the existence of spirit without matter, or of innate ideas, or of immortality, or anything
else that any other human being does not prove. Philosophers have tried to find out what was
her conception of abstract ideas before she learned language. If she had any conception, there
is no way of discovering it now; for she cannot remember, and obviously there was no record
at the time. She had no conception of God before she heard the word "God," as her comments
very clearly show.

Her sense of time is excellent, but whether it would have developed as a special faculty cannot
be known, for she has had a watch since she was seven years old.

Miss Keller has two watches, which have been given her. They are, I think, the only ones of
their kind in America. The watch has on the back cover a flat gold indicator which can be pushed
freely around from left to right until, by means of a pin inside the case, it locks with the
hour hand and takes a corresponding position. The point of this gold indicator bends over the
edge of the case, round which are set eleven raised points--the stem forms the twelfth. Thus
the watch, an ordinary watch with a white dial for the person who sees, becomes for a blind
person by this special attachment in effect one with a single raised hour hand and raised figures.
Though there is less than half an inch between the points--a space which represents sixty minutes--Miss
Keller tells the time almost exactly. It should be said that any double-case watch with the
crystal removed serves well enough for a blind person whose touch is sufficiently delicate
to feel the position of the hands and not disturb or injure them.

The finer traits of Miss Keller's character are so well known that one needs not say much about
them. Good sense, good humour, and imagination keep her scheme of things sane and beautiful.
No attempt is made by those around her either to preserve or to break her illusions. When she
was a little girl, a good many unwise and tactless things that were said for her benefit were
not repeated to her, thanks to the wise watchfulness of Miss Sullivan. Now that she has grown
up, nobody thinks of being less frank with her than with any other intelligent young woman.
What her good friend, Charles Dudley Warner, wrote about her in Harper's Magazine in 1896 was
true then, and it remains true now:

"I believe she is the purest-minded human ever in existence.... The world to her is what her
own mind is. She has not even learned that exhibition on which so many pride themselves, of
'righteous indignation.'

"Some time ago, when a policeman shot dead her dog, a dearly loved daily companion, she found
in her forgiving heart no condemnation for the man; she only said, 'If he had only known what
a good dog she was, he wouldn't have shot her.' It was said of old time, 'Lord forgive them,
they know not what they do!'

"Of course the question will arise whether, if Helen Keller had not been guarded from the knowledge
of evil, she would have been what she is to-day.... Her mind has neither been made effeminate
by the weak and silly literature, nor has it been vitiated by that which is suggestive of baseness.
In consequence her mind is not only vigorous, but it is pure. She is in love with noble things,
with noble thoughts, and with the characters of noble men and women."

She still has a childlike aversion to tragedies. Her imagination is so vital that she falls
completely under the illusion of a story, and lives in its world. Miss Sullivan writes in a
letter of 1891:

"Yesterday I read to her the story of 'Macbeth,' as told by Charles and Mary Lamb. She was
very greatly excited by it, and said: 'It is terrible! It makes me tremble!' After thinking
a little while, she added, 'I think Shakespeare made it very terrible so that people would
see how fearful it is to do wrong.'"

Of the real world she knows more of the good and less of the evil than most people seem to
know. Her teacher does not harass her with the little unhappy things; but of the important
difficulties they have been through, Miss Keller was fully informed, took her share of the
suffering, and put her mind to the problems. She is logical and tolerant, most trustful of
a world that has treated her kindly.

Once when some one asked her to define "love," she replied, "Why, bless you, that is easy;
it is what everybody feels for everybody else."

"Toleration," she said once, when she was visiting her friend Mrs. Laurence Hutton, "is the
greatest gift of the mind; it requires the same effort of the brain that it takes to balance
oneself on a bicycle."

She has a large, generous sympathy and absolute fairness of temper. So far as she is noticeably
different from other people she is less bound by convention. She has the courage of her metaphors
and lets them take her skyward when we poor self-conscious folk would think them rather too
bookish for ordinary conversation. She always says exactly what she thinks, without fear of
the plain truth; yet no one is more tactful and adroit than she in turning an unpleasant truth
so that it will do the least possible hurt to the feelings of others. Not all the attention
that has been paid her since she was a child has made her take herself too seriously. Sometimes
she gets started on a very solemn preachment. Then her teacher calls her an incorrigible little
sermonizer, and she laughs at herself. Often, however, her sober ideas are not to be laughed
at, for her earnestness carries her listeners with her. There is never the least false sententiousness
in what she says. She means everything so thoroughly that her very quotations, her echoes from
what she has read, are in truth original.

Her logic and her sympathy are in excellent balance. Her sympathy is of the swift and ministering
sort which, fortunately, she has found so often in other people. And her sympathies go further
and shape her opinions on political and national movements. She was intensely pro-Boer and
wrote a strong argument in favour of Boer independence. When she was told of the surrender
of the brave little people, her face clouded and she was silent a few minutes. Then she asked
clear, penetrating questions about the terms of the surrender, and began to discuss them.

Both Mr. Gilman and Mr. Keith, the teachers who prepared her for college, were struck by her
power of constructive reasoning; and she was excellent in pure mathematics, though she seems
never to have enjoyed it much. Some of the best of her writing, apart from her fanciful and
imaginative work, is her exposition in examinations and technical themes, and in some letters
which she found it necessary to write to clear up misunderstandings, and which are models of
close thinking enforced with sweet vehemence.

She is an optimist and an idealist.

"I hope," she writes in a letter, "that L-- isn't too practical, for if she is, I'm afraid
she'll miss a great deal of pleasure."

In the diary that she kept at the Wright-Humason School in New York she wrote on October 18,
1894, "I find that I have four things to learn in my school life here, and indeed, in life--to
think clearly without hurry or confusion, to love everybody sincerely, to act in everything
with the highest motives, and to trust in dear God unhesitatingly."

CHAPTER III. EDUCATION

It is now sixty-five years since Dr. Samuel Gridley Howe knew that he had made his way through
Laura Bridgman's fingers to her intelligence. The names of Laura Bridgman and Helen Keller
will always be linked together, and it is necessary to understand what Dr. Howe did for his
pupil before one comes to an account of Miss Sullivan's work. For Dr. Howe is the great pioneer
on whose work that of Miss Sullivan and other teachers of the deaf-blind immediately depends.
He was a great philanthropist, interested especially in the education of all defectives, the
feeble-minded, the blind, and the deaf. Far in advance of his time he advocated many public
measures for the relief of the poor and the diseased, for which he was laughed at then, but
which have since been put into practice. As head of the Perkins Institution for the Blind in
Boston, he heard of Laura Bridgman and had her brought to the Institution on October 4, 1837.

Laura Bridgman was born at Hanover, New Hampshire, December 21, 1829; so she was almost eight
years old when Dr. Howe began his experiments with her. At the age of twenty-six months scarlet
fever left her without sight or hearing. She also lost her sense of smell and taste. Dr. Howe
was an experimental scientist and had in him the spirit of New England transcendentalism with
its large faith and large charities. Science and faith together led him to try to make his
way into the soul which he believed was born in Laura Bridgman as in every other human being.
His plan was to teach Laura by means of raised types. He pasted raised labels on objects and
made her fit the labels to the objects and the objects to the labels. When she had learned
in this way to associate raised words with things, in much the same manner, he says, as a dog
learns tricks, he began to resolve the words into their letter elements and to teach her to
put together "k-e-y," "c-a-p." His success convinced him that language can be conveyed through
type to the mind of the blind-deaf child, who, before education, is in the state of the baby
who has not learned to prattle; indeed, is in a much worse state, for the brain has grown in
years without natural nourishment.

After Laura's education had progressed for two months with the use only of raised letters,
Dr. Howe sent one of his teachers to learn the manual alphabet from a deaf-mute. She taught
it to Laura, and from that time on the manual alphabet was the means of communicating with her.

After the first year or two Dr. Howe did not teach Laura Bridgman himself, but gave her over
to other teachers, who under his direction carried on the work of teaching her language.

Too much cannot be said in praise of Dr. Howe's work. As an investigator he kept always the
scientist's attitude. He never forgot to keep his records of Laura Bridgman in the fashion
of one who works in a laboratory. The result is, his records of her are systematic and careful.
From a scientific standpoint it is unfortunate that it was impossible to keep such a complete
record of Helen Keller's development. This in itself is a great comment on the difference between
Laura Bridgman and Helen Keller. Laura always remained an object of curious study. Helen Keller
became so rapidly a distinctive personality that she kept her teacher in a breathless race
to meet the needs of her pupil, with no time or strength to make a scientific study.

In some ways this is unfortunate. Miss Sullivan knew at the beginning that Helen Keller would
be more interesting and successful than Laura Bridgman, and she expresses in one of her letters
the need of keeping notes. But neither temperament nor training allowed her to make her pupil
the object of any experiment or observation which did not help in the child's development.
As soon as a thing was done, a definite goal passed, the teacher did not always look back and
describe the way she had come. The explanation of the fact was unimportant compared to the
fact itself and the need of hurrying on. There are two other reasons why Miss Sullivan's records
are incomplete. It has always been a severe tax on her eyes to write, and she was early discouraged
from publishing data by the inaccurate use made of what she at first supplied.

When she first wrote from Tuscumbia to Mr. Michael Anagnos, Dr. Howes son-in-law and his successor
as Director of the Perkins Institution, about her work with her pupil, the Boston papers began
at once to publish exaggerated accounts of Helen Keller. Miss Sullivan protested. In a letter
dated April 10, 1887, only five weeks after she went to Helen Keller, she wrote to a friend:

"-- sent me a Boston Herald containing a stupid article about Helen. How perfectly absurd to
say that Helen is 'already talking fluently!' Why, one might just as well say that a two-year-old
child converses fluently when he says 'apple give,' or 'baby walk go.' I suppose if you included
his screaming, crowing, whimpering, grunting, squalling, with occasional kicks, in his conversation,
it might be regarded as fluent--even eloquent. Then it is amusing to read of the elaborate
preparation I underwent to fit me for the great task my friends entrusted to me. I am sorry
that preparation didn't include spelling, it would have saved me such a lot of trouble."

On March 4, 1888, she writes in a letter:

"Indeed, I am heartily glad that I don't know all that is being said and written about Helen
and myself. I assure you I know quite enough. Nearly every mail brings some absurd statement,
printed or written. The truth is not wonderful enough to suit the newspapers; so they enlarge
upon it and invent ridiculous embellishments. One paper has Helen demonstrating problems in
geometry by means of her playing blocks. I expect to hear next that she has written a treatise
on the origin and future of the planets!"

In December, 1887, appeared the first report of the Director of the Perkins Institution, which
deals with Helen Keller. For this report Miss Sullivan prepared, in reluctant compliance with
the request of Mr. Anagnos, an account of her work. This with the extracts from her letters,
scattered through the report, is the first valid source of information about Helen Keller.
Of this report Miss Sullivan wrote in a letter dated October 30, 1887:

"Have you seen the paper I wrote for the 'report'? Mr. Anagnos was delighted with it. He says
Helen's progress has been 'a triumphal march from the beginning,' and he has many flattering
things to say about her teacher. I think he is inclined to exaggerate; at all events, his language
is too glowing, and simple facts are set forth in such a manner that they bewilder one. Doubtless
the work of the past few months does seem like a triumphal march to him; but then people seldom
see the halting and painful steps by which the most insignificant success is achieved."

As Mr. Anagnos was the head of a great institution, what he said had much more effect than
the facts in Miss Sullivan's account on which he based his statements. The newspapers caught
Mr. Anagnos's spirit and exaggerated a hundred-fold. In a year after she first went to Helen
Keller, Miss Sullivan found herself and her pupil the centre of a stupendous fiction. Then
the educators all over the world said their say and for the most part did not help matters.
There grew up a mass of controversial matter which it is amusing to read now. Teachers of the
deaf proved a priori that what Miss Sullivan had done could not be, and some discredit was
reflected on her statements, because they were surrounded by the vague eloquence of Mr. Anagnos.
Thus the story of Helen Keller, incredible when told with moderation, had the misfortune to
be heralded by exaggerated announcements, and naturally met either an ignorant credulity or
an incredulous hostility.

In November, 1888, another report of the Perkins Institution appeared with a second paper by
Miss Sullivan, and then nothing official was published until November, 1891, when Mr. Anagnos
issued the last Perkins Institution report containing anything about Helen Keller. For this
report Miss Sullivan wrote the fullest and largest account she has ever written; and in this
report appeared the "Frost King," which is discussed fully in a later chapter. Then the controversy
waxed fiercer than ever. When Dr. Bell and others tell her, what is certainly true from an
impersonal point of view, that she owes it to the cause of education to write what she knows,
she answers very properly that she owes all her time and all her energies to her pupil.

Although Miss Sullivan is still rather amused than distressed when some one, even one of her
friends, makes mistakes in published articles about her and Miss Keller, still she sees that
Miss Keller's book should include all the information that the teacher could at present furnish.
So she consented to the publication of extracts from letters which she wrote during the first
year of her work with her pupil. These letters were written to Mrs. Sophia C. Hopkins, the
only person to whom Miss Sullivan ever wrote freely. Mrs. Hopkins has been a matron at the
Perkins Institution for twenty years, and during the time that Miss Sullivan was a pupil there
she was like a mother to her. In these letters we have an almost weekly record of Miss Sullivan's
work. Some of the details she had forgotten, as she grew more and more to generalize. Many
people have thought that any attempt to find the principles in her method would be nothing
but a later theory superimposed on Miss Sullivan's work. But it is evident that in these letters
she was making a clear analysis of what she was doing. She was her own critic, and in spite
of her later declaration, made with her modest carelessness, that she followed no particular
method, she was very clearly learning from her task and phrasing at the time principles of
education of unique value not only in the teaching of the deaf but in the teaching of all children.
The extracts from her letters and reports form an important contribution to pedagogy, and more
than justify the opinion of Dr. Daniel C. Gilman, who wrote in 1893, when he was President
of Johns Hopkins University:

"I have just read... your most interesting account of the various steps you have taken in the
education of your wonderful pupil, and I hope you will allow me to express my admiration for
the wisdom that has guided your methods and the affection which has inspired your labours."

Miss Anne Mansfield Sullivan was born at Springfield, Massachusetts. Very early in her life
she became almost totally blind, and she entered the Perkins Institution October 7, 1880, when
she was fourteen years old. Later her sight was partially restored.

Mr. Anagnos says in his report of 1887: "She was obliged to begin her education at the lowest
and most elementary point; but she showed from the very start that she had in herself the force
and capacity which insure success.... She has finally reached the goal for which she strove
so bravely. The golden words that Dr. Howe uttered and the example that he left passed into
her thoughts and heart and helped her on the road to usefulness; and now she stands by his
side as his worthy successor in one of the most cherished branches of his work.... Miss Sullivan's
talents are of the highest order."

In 1886 she graduated from the Perkins Institution. When Captain Keller applied to the director
for a teacher, Mr. Anagnos recommended her. The only time she had to prepare herself for the
work with her pupil was from August, 1886, when Captain Keller wrote, to February, 1887. During
this time she read Dr. Howe's reports. She was further aided by the fact that during the six
years of her school life she had lived in the house with Laura Bridgman. It was Dr. Howe who,
by his work with Laura Bridgman, made Miss Sullivan's work possible: but it was Miss Sullivan
who discovered the way to teach language to the deaf-blind.

It must be remembered that Miss Sullivan had to solve her problems unaided by previous experience
or the assistance of any other teacher. During the first year of her work with Helen Keller,
in which she taught her pupil language, they were in Tuscumbia; and when they came North and
visited the Perkins Institution, Helen Keller was never a regular student there or subject
to the discipline of the Institution. The impression that Miss Sullivan educated Helen Keller
"under the direction of Mr. Anagnos" is erroneous. In the three years during which at various
times Miss Keller and Miss Sullivan were guests of the Perkins Institution, the teachers there
did not help Miss Sullivan, and Mr. Anagnos did not even use the manual alphabet with facility
as a means of communication. Mr. Anagnos wrote in the report of the Perkins Institution, dated
November 27, 1888: "At my urgent request, Helen, accompanied by her mother and her teacher,
came to the North in the last week of May, and spent several months with us as our guests....
We gladly allowed her to use freely our library of embossed books, our collection of stuffed
animals, sea-shells, models of flowers and plants, and the rest of our apparatus for instructing
the blind through the sense of touch. I do not doubt that she derived from them much pleasure
and not a little profit. But whether Helen stays at home or makes visits in other parts of
the country, her education is always under the immediate direction and exclusive control of
her teacher. No one interferes with Miss Sullivan's plans, or shares in her tasks. She has
been allowed entire freedom in the choice of means and methods for carrying on her great work;
and, as we can judge by the results, she has made a most judicious and discreet use of this
privilege. What the little pupil has thus far accomplished is widely known, and her wonderful
attainments command general admiration; but only those who are familiar with the particulars
of the grand achievement know that the credit is largely due to the intelligence, wisdom, sagacity,
unremitting perseverance and unbending will of the instructress, who rescued the child from
the depths of everlasting night and stillness, and watched over the different phases of her
mental and moral development with maternal solicitude and enthusiastic devotion."

Here follow in order Miss Sullivan's letters and the most important passages from the reports.
I have omitted from each succeeding report what has already been explained and does not need
to be repeated. For the ease of the reader I have, with Miss Sullivan's consent, made the extracts
run together continuously and supplied words of connection and the resulting necessary changes
in syntax, and Miss Sullivan has made slight changes in the phrasing of her reports and also
of her letters, which were carelessly written. I have also italicized a few important passages.
Some of her opinions Miss Sullivan would like to enlarge and revise. That remains for her to
do at another time. At present we have here the fullest record that has been published. The
first letter is dated March 6, 1887, three days after her arrival in Tuscumbia.

...It was 6.30 when I reached Tuscumbia. I found Mrs. Keller and Mr. James Keller waiting for
me. They said somebody had met every train for two days. The drive from the station to the
house, a distance of one mile, was very lovely and restful. I was surprised to find Mrs. Keller
a very young-looking woman, not much older than myself, I should think. Captain Keller met
us in the yard and gave me a cheery welcome and a hearty handshake. My first question was,
"Where is Helen?" I tried with all my might to control the eagerness that made me tremble so
that I could hardly walk. As we approached the house I saw a child standing in the doorway,
and Captain Keller said, "There she is. She has known all day that some one was expected, and
she has been wild ever since her mother went to the station for you." I had scarcely put my
foot on the steps, when she rushed toward me with such force that she would have thrown me
backward if Captain Keller had not been behind me. She felt my face and dress and my bag, which
she took out of my hand and tried to open. It did not open easily, and she felt carefully to
see if there was a keyhole. Finding that there was, she turned to me, making the sign of turning
a key and pointing to the bag. Her mother interfered at this point and showed Helen by signs
that she must not touch the bag. Her face flushed, and when her mother attempted to take the
bag from her, she grew very angry. I attracted her attention by showing her my watch and letting
her hold it in her hand. Instantly the tempest subsided, and we went upstairs together. Here
I opened the bag, and she went through it eagerly, probably expecting to find something to
eat. Friends had probably brought her candy in their bags, and she expected to find some in
mine. I made her understand, by pointing to a trunk in the hall and to myself and nodding my
head, that I had a trunk, and then made the sign that she had used for eating, and nodded again.
She understood in a flash and ran downstairs to tell her mother, by means of emphatic signs,
that there was some candy in a trunk for her. She returned in a few minutes and helped me put
away my things. It was too comical to see her put on my bonnet and cock her head first on one
side, then on the other, and look in the mirror, just as if she could see. Somehow I had expected
to see a pale, delicate child--I suppose I got the idea from Dr. Howe's description of Laura
Bridgman when she came to the Institution. But there's nothing pale or delicate about Helen.
She is large, strong, and ruddy, and as unrestrained in her movements as a young colt. She
has none of those nervous habits that are so noticeable and so distressing in blind children.
Her body is well formed and vigorous, and Mrs. Keller says she has not been ill a day since
the illness that deprived her of her sight and hearing. She has a fine head, and it is set
on her shoulders just right. Her face is hard to describe. It is intelligent, but lacks mobility,
or soul, or something. Her mouth is large and finely shaped. You see at a glance that she is
blind. One eye is larger than the other, and protrudes noticeably. She rarely smiles; indeed,
I have seen her smile only once or twice since I came. She is unresponsive and even impatient
of caresses from any one except her mother. She is very quick-tempered and wilful, and nobody,
except her brother James, has attempted to control her. The greatest problem I shall have to
solve is how to discipline and control her without breaking her spirit. I shall go rather slowly
at first and try to win her love. I shall not attempt to conquer her by force alone; but I
shall insist on reasonable obedience from the start. One thing that impresses everybody is
Helen's tireless activity. She is never still a moment. She is here, there, and everywhere.
Her hands are in everything; but nothing holds her attention for long. Dear child, her restless
spirit gropes in the dark. Her untaught, unsatisfied hands destroy whatever they touch because
they do not know what else to do with things.

She helped me unpack my trunk when it came, and was delighted when she found the doll the little
girls sent her. I thought it a good opportunity to teach her her first word. I spelled "d-o-l-l"
slowly in her hand and pointed to the doll and nodded my head, which seems to be her sign for
possession. Whenever anybody gives her anything, she points to it, then to herself, and nods
her head. She looked puzzled and felt my hand, and I repeated the letters. She imitated them
very well and pointed to the doll. Then I took the doll, meaning to give it back to her when
she had made the letters; but she thought I meant to take it from her, and in an instant she
was in a temper, and tried to seize the doll. I shook my head and tried to form the letters
with her fingers; but she got more and more angry. I forced her into a chair and held her there
until I was nearly exhausted. Then it occurred to me that it was useless to continue the struggle--I
must do something to turn the current of her thoughts. I let her go, but refused to give up
the doll. I went downstairs and got some cake (she is very fond of sweets). I showed Helen
the cake and spelled "c-a-k-e" in her hand, holding the cake toward her. Of course she wanted
it and tried to take it; but I spelled the word again and patted her hand. She made the letters
rapidly, and I gave her the cake, which she ate in a great hurry, thinking, I suppose, that
I might take it from her. Then I showed her the doll and spelled the word again, holding the
doll toward her as I held the cake. She made the letters "d-o-l"' and I made the other "l"
and gave her the doll. She ran downstairs with it and could not be induced to return to my
room all day.

Yesterday I gave her a sewing-card to do. I made the first row of vertical lines and let her
feel it and notice that there were several rows of little holes. She began to work delightedly
and finished the card in a few minutes, and did it very neatly indeed. I thought I would try
another word; so I spelled "c-a-r-d." She made the "c-a," then stopped and thought, and making
the sign for eating and pointing downward she pushed me toward the door, meaning that I must
go downstairs for some cake. The two letters "c-a," you see, had reminded her of Fridays "lesson"--not
that she had any idea that cake was the name of the thing, but it was simply a matter of association,
I suppose. I finished the word "c-a-k-e" and obeyed her command. She was delighted. Then I
spelled "d-o-l-l" and began to hunt for it. She follows with her hands every motion you make,
and she knew that I was looking for the doll. She pointed down, meaning that the doll was downstairs.
I made the signs that she had used when she wished me to go for the cake, and pushed her toward
the door. She started forward, then hesitated a moment, evidently debating within herself whether
she would go or not. She decided to send me instead. I shook my head and spelled "d-o-l-l"
more emphatically, and opened the door for her; but she obstinately refused to obey. She had
not finished the cake she was eating, and I took it away, indicating that if she brought the
doll I would give her back the cake. She stood perfectly still for one long moment, her face
crimson; then her desire for the cake triumphed, and she ran downstairs and brought the doll,
and of course I gave her the cake, but could not persuade her to enter the room again.

She was very troublesome when I began to write this morning. She kept coming up behind me and
putting her hand on the paper and into the ink-bottle. These blots are her handiwork. Finally
I remembered the kindergarten beads, and set her to work stringing them. First I put on two
wooden beads and one glass bead, then made her feel of the string and the two boxes of beads.
She nodded and began at once to fill the string with wooden beads. I shook my head and took
them all off and made her feel of the two wooden beads and the one glass bead. She examined
them thoughtfully and began again. This time she put on the glass bead first and the two wooden
ones next. I took them off and showed her that the two wooden ones must go on first, then the
glass bead. She had no further trouble and filled the string quickly, too quickly, in fact.
She tied the ends together when she had finished the string, and put the beads round her neck.
I did not make the knot large enough in the next string, and the beads came off as fast as
she put them on; but she solved the difficulty herself by putting the string through a bead
and tying it. I thought this very clever. She amused herself with the beads until dinner-time,
bringing the strings to me now and then for my approval.

My eyes are very much inflamed. I know this letter is very carelessly written. I had a lot
to say, and couldn't stop to think how to express things neatly. Please do not show my letter
to any one. If you want to, you may read it to my friends.

Monday P.M.

I had a battle royal with Helen this morning. Although I try very hard not to force issues,
I find it very difficult to avoid them.

Helen's table manners are appalling. She puts her hands in our plates and helps herself, and
when the dishes are passed, she grabs them and takes out whatever she wants. This morning I
would not let her put her hand in my plate. She persisted, and a contest of wills followed.
Naturally the family was much disturbed, and left the room. I locked the dining-room door,
and proceeded to eat my breakfast, though the food almost choked me. Helen was lying on the
floor, kicking and screaming and trying to pull my chair from under me. She kept this up for
half an hour, then she got up to see what I was doing. I let her see that I was eating, but
did not let her put her hand in the plate. She pinched me, and I slapped her every time she
did it. Then she went all round the table to see who was there, and finding no one but me,
she seemed bewildered. After a few minutes she came back to her place and began to eat her
breakfast with her fingers. I gave her a spoon, which she threw on the floor. I forced her
out of the chair and made her pick it up. Finally I succeeded in getting her back in her chair
again, and held the spoon in her hand, compelling her to take up the food with it and put it
in her mouth. In a few minutes she yielded and finished her breakfast peaceably. Then we had
another tussle over folding her napkin. When she had finished, she threw it on the floor and
ran toward the door. Finding it locked, she began to kick and scream all over again. It was
another hour before I succeeded in getting her napkin folded. Then I let her out into the warm
sunshine and went up to my room and threw myself on the bed exhausted. I had a good cry and
felt better. I suppose I shall have many such battles with the little woman before she learns
the only two essential things I can teach her, obedience and love.

Good-by, dear. Don't worry; I'll do my best and leave the rest to whatever power manages that
which we cannot. I like Mrs. Keller very much.

Tuscumbia, Alabama, March 11, 1887.

Since I wrote you, Helen and I have gone to live all by ourselves in a little garden-house
about a quarter of a mile from her home, only a short distance from Ivy Green, the Keller homestead.
I very soon made up my mind that I could do nothing with Helen in the midst of the family,
who have always allowed her to do exactly as she pleased. She has tyrannized over everybody,
her mother, her father, the servants, the little darkies who play with her, and nobody had
ever seriously disputed her will, except occasionally her brother James, until I came; and
like all tyrants she holds tenaciously to her divine right to do as she pleases. If she ever
failed to get what she wanted, it was because of her inability to make the vassals of her household
understand what it was. Every thwarted desire was the signal for a passionate outburst, and
as she grew older and stronger, these tempests became more violent. As I began to teach her,
I was beset by many difficulties. She wouldn't yield a point without contesting it to the bitter
end. I couldn't coax her or compromise with her. To get her to do the simplest thing, such
as combing her hair or washing her hands or buttoning her boots, it was necessary to use force,
and, of course, a distressing scene followed. The family naturally felt inclined to interfere,
especially her father, who cannot bear to see her cry. So they were all willing to give in
for the sake of peace. Besides, her past experiences and associations were all against me.
I saw clearly that it was useless to try to teach her language or anything else until she learned
to obey me. I have thought about it a great deal, and the more I think, the more certain I
am that obedience is the gateway through which knowledge, yes, and love, too, enter the mind
of the child. As I wrote you, I meant to go slowly at first. I had an idea that I could win
the love and confidence of my little pupil by the same means that I should use if she could
see and hear. But I soon found that I was cut off from all the usual approaches to the child's
heart. She accepted everything I did for her as a matter of course, and refused to be caressed,
and there was no way of appealing to her affection or sympathy or childish love of approbation.
She would or she wouldn't, and there was an end of it. Thus it is, we study, plan and prepare
ourselves for a task, and when the hour for action arrives, we find that the system we have
followed with such labour and pride does not fit the occasion; and then there's nothing for
us to do but rely on something within us, some innate capacity for knowing and doing, which
we did not know we possessed until the hour of our great need brought it to light.

I had a good, frank talk with Mrs. Keller, and explained to her how difficult it was going
to be to do anything with Helen under the existing circumstances. I told her that in my opinion
the child ought to be separated from the family for a few weeks at least--that she must learn
to depend on and obey me before I could make any headway. After a long time Mrs. Keller said
that she would think the matter over and see what Captain Keller thought of sending Helen away
with me. Captain Keller fell in with the scheme most readily and suggested that the little
garden-house at the "old place" be got ready for us. He said that Helen might recognize the
place, as she had often been there, but she would have no idea of her surroundings, and they
could come every day to see that all was going well, with the understanding, of course, that
she was to know nothing of their visits. I hurried the preparations for our departure as much
as possible, and here we are.

The little house is a genuine bit of paradise. It consists of one large square room with a
great fireplace, a spacious bay-window, and a small room where our servant, a little negro
boy, sleeps. There is a piazza in front, covered with vines that grow so luxuriantly that you
have to part them to see the garden beyond. Our meals are brought from the house, and we usually
eat on the piazza. The little negro boy takes care of the fire when we need one, so I can give
my whole attention to Helen.

She was greatly excited at first, and kicked and screamed herself into a sort of stupor, but
when supper was brought she ate heartily and seemed brighter, although she refused to let me
touch her. She devoted herself to her dolls the first evening, and when it was bedtime she
undressed very quietly, but when she felt me get into bed with her, she jumped out on the other
side, and nothing that I could do would induce her to get in again. But I was afraid she would
take cold, and I insisted that she must go to bed. We had a terrific tussle, I can tell you.
The struggle lasted for nearly two hours. I never saw such strength and endurance in a child.
But fortunately for us both, I am a little stronger, and quite as obstinate when I set out.
I finally succeeded in getting her on the bed and covered her up, and she lay curled up as
near the edge of the bed as possible.

The next morning she was very docile, but evidently homesick. She kept going to the door, as
if she expected some one, and every now and then she would touch her cheek, which is her sign
for her mother, and shake her head sadly. She played with her dolls more than usual, and would
have nothing to do with me. It is amusing and pathetic to see Helen with her dolls. I don't
think she has any special tenderness for them--I have never seen her caress them; but she dresses
and undresses them many times during the day and handles them exactly as she has seen her mother
and the nurse handle her baby sister.

This morning Nancy, her favourite doll, seemed to have some difficulty about swallowing the
milk that was being administered to her in large spoonfuls; for Helen suddenly put down the
cup and began to slap her on the back and turn her over on her knees, trotting her gently and
patting her softly all the time. This lasted for several minutes; then this mood passed, and
Nancy was thrown ruthlessly on the floor and pushed to one side, while a large, pink-cheeked,
fuzzy-haired member of the family received the little mother's undivided attention.

Helen knows several words now, but has no idea how to use them, or that everything has a name.
I think, however, she will learn quickly enough by and by. As I have said before, she is wonderfully
bright and active and as quick as lightning in her movements.

March 13, 1887.

You will be glad to hear that my experiment is working out finely. I have not had any trouble
at all with Helen, either yesterday or to-day. She has learned three new words, and when I
give her the objects, the names of which she has learned, she spells them unhesitatingly; but
she seems glad when the lesson is over.

We had a good frolic this morning out in the garden. Helen evidently knew where she was as
soon as she touched the boxwood hedges, and made many signs which I did not understand. No
doubt they were signs for the different members of the family at Ivy Green.

I have just heard something that surprised me very much. It seems that Mr. Anagnos had heard
of Helen before he received Captain Keller's letter last summer. Mr. Wilson, a teacher at Florence,
and a friend of the Kellers', studied at Harvard the summer before and went to the Perkins
Institution to learn if anything could be done for his friend's child. He saw a gentleman whom
he presumed to be the director, and told him about Helen. He says the gentleman was not particularly
interested, but said he would see if anything could be done. Doesn't it seem strange that Mr.
Anagnos never referred to this interview?

March 20, 1887.

My heart is singing for joy this morning. A miracle has happened! The light of understanding
has shone upon my little pupil's mind, and behold, all things are changed!

The wild little creature of two weeks ago has been transformed into a gentle child. She is
sitting by me as I write, her face serene and happy, crocheting a long red chain of Scotch
wool. She learned the stitch this week, and is very proud of the achievement. When she succeeded
in making a chain that would reach across the room, she patted herself on the arm and put the
first work of her hands lovingly against her cheek. She lets me kiss her now, and when she
is in a particularly gentle mood, she will sit in my lap for a minute or two; but she does
not return my caresses. The great step--the step that counts--has been taken. The little savage
has learned her first lesson in obedience, and finds the yoke easy. It now remains my pleasant
task to direct and mould the beautiful intelligence that is beginning to stir in the child-soul.
Already people remark the change in Helen. Her father looks in at us morning and evening as
he goes to and from his office, and sees her contentedly stringing her beads or making horizontal
lines on her sewing-card, and exclaims, "How quiet she is!" When I came, her movements were
so insistent that one always felt there was something unnatural and almost weird about her.
I have noticed also that she eats much less, a fact which troubles her father so much that
he is anxious to get her home. He says she is homesick. I don't agree with him; but I suppose
we shall have to leave our little bower very soon.

Helen has learned several nouns this week. "M-u-g" and "m-i-l-k," have given her more trouble
than other words. When she spells "milk," she points to the mug, and when she spells "mug,"
she makes the sign for pouring or drinking, which shows that she has confused the words. She
has no idea yet that everything has a name.

Yesterday I had the little negro boy come in when Helen was having her lesson, and learn the
letters, too. This pleased her very much and stimulated her ambition to excel Percy. She was
delighted if he made a mistake, and made him form the letter over several times. When he succeeded
in forming it to suit her, she patted him on his woolly head so vigorously that I thought some
of his slips were intentional.

One day this week Captain Keller brought Belle, a setter of which he is very proud, to see
us. He wondered if Helen would recognize her old playmate. Helen was giving Nancy a bath, and
didn't notice the dog at first. She usually feels the softest step and throws out her arms
to ascertain if any one is near her. Belle didn't seem very anxious to attract her attention.
I imagine she has been rather roughly handled sometimes by her little mistress. The dog hadn't
been in the room more than half a minute, however, before Helen began to sniff, and dumped
the doll into the wash-bowl and felt about the room. She stumbled upon Belle, who was crouching
near the window where Captain Keller was standing. It was evident that she recognized the dog;
for she put her arms round her neck and squeezed her. Then Helen sat down by her and began
to manipulate her claws. We couldn't think for a second what she was doing; but when we saw
her make the letters "d-o-l-l" on her own fingers, we knew that she was trying to teach Belle
to spell.

March 28, 1887.

Helen and I came home yesterday. I am sorry they wouldn't let us stay another week; but I think
I have made the most I could of the opportunities that were mine the past two weeks, and I
don't expect that I shall have any serious trouble with Helen in the future. The back of the
greatest obstacle in the path of progress is broken. I think "no" and "yes," conveyed by a
shake or a nod of my head, have become facts as apparent to her as hot and cold or as the difference
between pain and pleasure. And I don't intend that the lesson she has learned at the cost of
so much pain and trouble shall be unlearned. I shall stand between her and the over-indulgence
of her parents. I have told Captain and Mrs. Keller that they must not interfere with me in
any way. I have done my best to make them see the terrible injustice to Helen of allowing her
to have her way in everything, and I have pointed out that the processes of teaching the child
that everything cannot be as he wills it, are apt to be painful both to him and to his teacher.
They have promised to let me have a free hand and help me as much as possible. The improvement
they cannot help seeing in their child has given them more confidence in me. Of course, it
is hard for them. I realize that it hurts to see their afflicted little child punished and
made to do things against her will. Only a few hours after my talk with Captain and Mrs. Keller
(and they had agreed to everything), Helen took a notion that she wouldn't use her napkin at
table. I think she wanted to see what would happen. I attempted several times to put the napkin
round her neck; but each time she tore it off and threw it on the floor and finally began to
kick the table. I took her plate away and started to take her out of the room. Her father objected
and said that no child of his should be deprived of his food on any account.

Helen didn't come up to my room after supper, and I didn't see her again until breakfast-time.
She was at her place when I came down. She had put the napkin under her chin, instead of pinning
it at the back, as was her custom. She called my attention to the new arrangement, and when
I did not object she seemed pleased and patted herself. When she left the dining-room, she
took my hand and patted it. I wondered if she was trying to "make up." I thought I would try
the effect of a little belated discipline. I went back to the dining-room and got a napkin.
When Helen came upstairs for her lesson, I arranged the objects on the table as usual, except
that the cake, which I always give her in bits as a reward when she spells a word quickly and
correctly, was not there. She noticed this at once and made the sign for it. I showed her the
napkin and pinned it round her neck, then tore it off and threw it on the floor and shook my
head. I repeated this performance several times. I think she understood perfectly well; for
she slapped her hand two or three times and shook her head. We began the lesson as usual. I
gave her an object, and she spelled the name (she knows twelve now). After spelling half the
words, she stopped suddenly, as if a thought had flashed into her mind, and felt for the napkin.
She pinned it round her neck and made the sign for cake (it didn't occur to her to spell the
word, you see). I took this for a promise that if I gave her some cake she would be a good
girl. I gave her a larger piece than usual, and she chuckled and patted herself.

April 3, 1887.

We almost live in the garden, where everything is growing and blooming and glowing. After breakfast
we go out and watch the men at work. Helen loves to dig and play in the dirt like any other
child. This morning she planted her doll and showed me that she expected her to grow as tall
as I. You must see that she is very bright, but you have no idea how cunning she is.

At ten we come in and string beads for a few minutes. She can make a great many combinations
now, and often invents new ones herself. Then I let her decide whether she will sew or knit
or crochet. She learned to knit very quickly, and is making a wash-cloth for her mother. Last
week she made her doll an apron, and it was done as well as any child of her age could do it.
But I am always glad when this work is over for the day. Sewing and crocheting are inventions
of the devil, I think. I'd rather break stones on the king's highway than hem a handkerchief.
At eleven we have gymnastics. She knows all the free-hand movements and the "Anvil Chorus"
with the dumb-bells. Her father says he is going to fit up a gymnasium for her in the pump-house;
but we both like a good romp better than set exercises. The hour from twelve to one is devoted
to the learning of new words. BUT YOU MUSTN'T THINK THIS IS THE ONLY TIME I SPELL TO HELEN;
FOR I SPELL IN HER HAND EVERYTHING WE DO ALL DAY LONG, ALTHOUGH SHE HAS NO IDEA AS YET WHAT
THE SPELLING MEANS. After dinner I rest for an hour, and Helen plays with her dolls or frolics
in the yard with the little darkies, who were her constant companions before I came. Later
I join them, and we make the rounds of the outhouses. We visit the horses and mules in their
stalls and hunt for eggs and feed the turkeys. Often, when the weather is fine, we drive from
four to six, or go to see her aunt at Ivy Green or her cousins in the town. Helen's instincts
are decidedly social; she likes to have people about her and to visit her friends, partly,
I think, because they always have things she likes to eat. After supper we go to my room and
do all sorts of things until eight, when I undress the little woman and put her to bed. She
sleeps with me now. Mrs. Keller wanted to get a nurse for her, but I concluded I'd rather be
her nurse than look after a stupid, lazy negress. Besides, I like to have Helen depend on me
for everything, AND I FIND IT MUCH EASIER TO TEACH HER THINGS AT ODD MOMENTS THAN AT SET TIMES.

On March 31st I found that Helen knew eighteen nouns and three verbs. Here is a list of the
words. Those with a cross after them are words she asked for herself: DOLL, MUG, PIN, KEY,
DOG, HAT, CUP, BOX, WATER, MILK, CANDY, EYE (X), FINGER (X), TOE (X), HEAD (X), CAKE, BABY,
MOTHER, SIT, STAND, WALK. On April 1st she learned the nouns KNIFE, FORK, SPOON, SAUCER, TEA,
PAPA, BED, and the verb RUN.

April 5, 1887.

I must write you a line this morning because something very important has happened. Helen has
taken the second great step in her education. She has learned that EVERYTHING HAS A NAME, AND
THAT THE MANUAL ALPHABET IS THE KEY TO EVERYTHING SHE WANTS TO KNOW.

In a previous letter I think I wrote you that "mug" and "milk" had given Helen more trouble
than all the rest. She confused the nouns with the verb "drink." She didn't know the word for
"drink," but went through the pantomime of drinking whenever she spelled "mug" or "milk." This
morning, while she was washing, she wanted to know the name for "water." When she wants to
know the name of anything, she points to it and pats my hand. I spelled "w-a-t-e-r" and thought
no more about it until after breakfast. Then it occurred to me that with the help of this new
word I might succeed in straightening out the "mug-milk" difficulty. We went out to the pump-house,
and I made Helen hold her mug under the spout while I pumped. As the cold water gushed forth,
filling the mug, I spelled "w-a-t-e-r" in Helen's free hand. The word coming so close upon
the sensation of cold water rushing over her hand seemed to startle her. She dropped the mug
and stood as one transfixed. A new light came into her face. She spelled "water" several times.
Then she dropped on the ground and asked for its name and pointed to the pump and the trellis,
and suddenly turning round she asked for my name. I spelled "Teacher." Just then the nurse
brought Helen's little sister into the pump-house, and Helen spelled "baby" and pointed to
the nurse. All the way back to the house she was highly excited, and learned the name of every
object she touched, so that in a few hours she had adDED THIRTY NEW WORDS TO HER VOCABULARY.
HERE ARE SOME OF THEM: DOOR, OPEN, SHUT, GIVE, GO, COME, and a great many more.

P.S.--I didn't finish my letter in time to get it posted last night; so I shall add a line.
Helen got up this morning like a radiant fairy. She has flitted from object to object, asking
the name of everything and kissing me for very gladness. Last night when I got in bed, she
stole into my arms of her own accord and kissed me for the first time, and I thought my heart
would burst, so full was it of joy.

April 10, 1887.

I see an improvement in Helen day to day, almost from hour to hour. Everything must have a
name now. Wherever we go, she asks eagerly for the names of things she has not learned at home.
She is anxious for her friends to spell, and eager to teach the letters to every one she meets.
She drops the signs and pantomime she used before, as soon as she has words to supply their
place, and the acquirement of a new word affords her the liveliest pleasure. And we notice
that her face grows more expressive each day.

I HAVE DECIDED NOT TO TRY TO HAVE REGULAR LESSONS FOR THE PRESENT. I AM GOING TO TREAT HELEN
EXACTLY LIKE A TWO-YEAR-OLD CHILD. IT OCCURRED TO ME THE OTHER DAY THAT IT IS ABSURD TO REQUIRE
A CHILD TO COME TO A CERTAIN PLACE AT A CERTAIN TIME AND RECITE CERTAIN LESSONS, WHEN HE HAS
NOT YET ACQUIRED A WORKING VOCABULARY. I sent Helen away and sat down to think. I asked myself,
"How does a normal child learn language?" The answer was simple, "By imitation." The child
comes into the world with the ability to learn, and he learns of himself, provided he is supplied
with sufficient outward stimulus. He sees people do things, and he tries to do them. He hears
others speak, and he tried to speak. BUT LONG BEFORE HE UTTERS HIS FIRST WORD, HE UNDERSTANDS
WHAT IS SAID TO HIM. I have been observing Helen's little cousin lately. She is about fifteen
months old, and already understands a great deal. In response to questions she points out prettily
her nose, mouth, eye, chin, cheek, ear. If I say, "Where is baby's other ear?" she points it
out correctly. If I hand her a flower, and say, "Give it to mamma," she takes it to her mother.
If I say, "Where is the little rogue?" she hides behind her mother's chair, or covers her face
with her hands and peeps out at me with an expression of genuine roguishness. She obeys many
commands like these: "Come," "Kiss," "Go to papa," "Shut the door," "Give me the biscuit."
But I have not heard her try to say any of these words, although they have been repeated hundreds
of times in her hearing, and it is perfectly evident that she understands them. These observations
have given me a clue to the method to be followed in teaching Helen language.I SHALL TALK INTO
HER HAND AS WE TALK INTO THE BABY'S EARS. I shall assume that she has the normal child's capacity
of assimilation and imitation. I SHALL USE COMPLETE SENTENCES IN TALKING TO HER, and fill out
the meaning with gestures and her descriptive signs when necessity requires it; but I shall
not try to keep her mind fixed on any one thing. I shall do all I can to interest and stimulate
it, and wait for results.

April 24, 1887.

The new scheme works splendidly. Helen knows the meaning of more than a hundred words now,
and learns new ones daily without the slightest suspicion that she is performing a most difficult
feat. She learns because she can't help it, just as the bird learns to fly. But don't imagine
that she "talks fluently." Like her baby cousin, she expresses whole sentences by single words.
"Milk," with a gesture means, "Give me more milk." "Mother," accompanied by an inquiring look,
means, "Were is mother?" "Go" means, "I want to go out." But when I spell into her hand, "Give
me some bread," she hands me the bread, or if I say, "Get your hat and we will go to walk,"
she obeys instantly. The two words, "hat" and "walk" would have the same effect; BUT THE WHOLE
SENTENCE, REPEATED MANY TIMES DURING THE DAY, MUST IN TIME IMPRESS ITSELF UPON THE BRAIN, AND
BY AND BY SHE WILL USE IT HERSELF.

We play a little game which I find most useful in developing the intellect, and which incidentally
answers the purpose of a language lesson. It is an adaptation of hide-the-thimble. I hide something,
a ball or a spool, and we hunt for it. When we first played this game two or three days ago,
she showed no ingenuity at all in finding the object. She looked in places where it would have
been impossible to put the ball or the spool. For instance, when I hid the ball, she looked
under her writing-board. Again, when I hid the spool, she looked for it in a little box not
more than an inch long; and she very soon gave up the search. Now I can keep up her interest
in the game for an hour or longer, and she shows much more intelligence, and often great ingenuity
in the search. This morning I hid a cracker. She looked everywhere she could think of without
success, and was evidently in despair when suddenly a thought struck her, and she came running
to me and made me open my mouth very wide, while she gave it a thorough investigation. Finding
no trace of the cracker there, she pointed to my stomach and spelled "eat," meaning, "Did you
eat it?"

Friday we went down town and met a gentleman who gave Helen some candy, which she ate, except
one small piece which she put in her apron pocket. When we reached home, she found her mother,
and of her own accord said, "Give baby candy." Mrs. Keller spelled, "No--baby eat--no." Helen
went to the cradle and felt of Mildred's mouth and pointed to her own teeth. Mrs. Keller spelled
"teeth." Helen shook her head and spelled "Baby teeth--no, baby eat--no," meaning of course,
"Baby cannot eat because she has no teeth."

May 8, 1887.

No, I don't want any more kindergarten materials. I used my little stock of beads, cards and
straws at first because I didn't know what else to do; but the need for them is past, for the
present at any rate.

I am beginning to suspect all elaborate and special systems of education. They seem to me to
be built up on the supposition that every child is a kind of idiot who must be taught to think.
Whereas, if the child is left to himself, he will think more and better, if less showily. Let
him go and come freely, let him touch real things and combine his impressions for himself,
instead of sitting indoors at a little round table, while a sweet-voiced teacher suggests that
he build a stone wall with his wooden blocks, or make a rainbow out of strips of coloured paper,
or plant straw trees in bead flower-pots. Such teaching fills the mind with artificial associations
that must be got rid of, before the child can develop independent ideas out of actual experiences.

Helen is learning adjectives and adverbs as easily as she learned nouns. The idea always precedes
the word. She had signs for SMALL and LARGE long before I came to her. If she wanted a small
object and was given a large one, she would shake her head and take up a tiny bit of the skin
of one hand between the thumb and finger of the other. If she wanted to indicate something
large, she spread the fingers of both hands as wide as she could, and brought them together,
as if to clasp a big ball. The other day I substituted the words SMALL and LARGE for these
signs, and she at once adopted the words and discarded the signs. I can now tell her to bring
me a large book or a small plate, to go upstairs slowly, to run fast and to walk quickly. This
morning she used the conjunction AND for the first time. I told her to shut the door, and she
added, "and lock."

She came tearing upstairs a few minutes ago in a state of great excitement. I couldn't make
out at first what it was all about. She kept spelling "dog--baby" and pointing to her five
fingers one after another, and sucking them. My first thought was, one of the dogs has hurt
Mildred; but Helen's beaming face set my fears at rest. Nothing would do but I must go somewhere
with her to see something. She led the way to the pump-house, and there in the corner was one
of the setters with five dear little pups! I taught her the word "puppy" and drew her hand
over them all, while they sucked, and spelled "puppies." She was much interested in the feeding
process, and spelled "mother-dog" and "baby" several times. Helen noticed that the puppies'
eyes were closed, and she said, "Eyes--shut. Sleep--no," meaning, "The eyes are shut, but the
puppies are not asleep." She screamed with glee when the little things squealed and squirmed
in their efforts to get back to their mother, and spelled, "Baby--eat large." I suppose her
idea was "Baby eats much." She pointed to each puppy, one after another, and to her five fingers,
and I taught her the word FIVE. Then she held up one finger and said "baby." I knew she was
thinking of Mildred, and I spelled, "One baby and five puppies." After she had played with
them a little while, the thought occurred to her that the puppies must have special names,
like people, and she asked for the name of each pup. I told her to ask her father, and she
said, "No--mother." She evidently thought mothers were more likely to know about babies of
all sorts. She noticed that one of the puppies was much smaller than the others, and she spelled
"small," making the sign at the same time, and I said "very small." She evidently understood
that VERY was the name of the new thing that had come into her head; for all the way back to
the house she used the word VERY correctly. One stone was "small," another was "very small."
When she touched her little sister, she said: "Baby--small. Puppy- very small." Soon after,
she began to vary her steps from large to small, and little mincing steps were "very small."
She is going through the house now, applying the new words to all kinds of objects.

Since I have abandoned the idea of regular lessons, I find that Helen learns much faster. I
am convinced that the time spent by the teacher in digging out of the child what she has put
into him, for the sake of satisfying herself that it has taken root, is so much time thrown
away. IT'S MUCH BETTER, I THINK, TO ASSUME THAT THE CHILD IS DOING HIS PART, AND THAT THE SEED
YOU HAVE SOWN WILL BEAR FRUIT IN DUE TIME. It's only fair to the child, anyhow, and it saves
you much unnecessary trouble.

May 16, 1887.

We have begun to take long walks every morning, immediately after breakfast. The weather is
fine, and the air is full of the scent of strawberries. Our objective point is Keller's Landing,
on the Tennessee, about two miles distant. We never know how we get there, or where we are
at a given moment; but that only adds to our enjoyment, especially when everything is new and
strange. Indeed, I feel as if I had never seen anything until now, Helen finds so much to ask
about along the way. We chase butterflies, and sometimes catch one. Then we sit down under
a tree, or in the shade of a bush, and talk about it. Afterwards, if it has survived the lesson,
we let it go; but usually its life and beauty are sacrificed on the altar of learning, though
in another sense it lives forever; for has it not been transformed into living thoughts? It
is wonderful how words generate ideas! Every new word Helen learns seems to carry with it necessity
for many more. Her mind grows through its ceaseless activity.

Keller's Landing was used during the war to land troops, but has long since gone to pieces,
and is overgrown with moss and weeds. The solitude of the place sets one dreaming. Near the
landing there is a beautiful little spring, which Helen calls "squirrel-cup," because I told
her the squirrels came there to drink. She has felt dead squirrels and rabbits and other wild
animals, and is anxious to see a "walk-squirrel," which interpreted, means, I think, a "live
squirrel." We go home about dinner-time usually, and Helen is eager to tell her mother everything
she has seen. THIS DESIRE TO REPEAT WHAT HAS BEEN TOLD HER SHOWS A MARKED ADVANCE IN THE DEVELOPMENT
OF HER INTELLECT, AND IS AN INVALUABLE STIMULUS TO THE ACQUISITION OF LANGUAGE. I ASK ALL HER
FRIENDS TO ENCOURAGE HER TO TELL THEM OF HER DOINGS, AND TO MANIFEST AS MUCH CURIOSITY AND
PLEASURE IN HER LITTLE ADVENTURES AS THEY POSSIBLY CAN. This gratifies the child's love of
approbation and keeps up her interest in things. This is the basis of real intercourse. She
makes many mistakes, of course, twists words and phrases, puts the cart before the horse, and
gets herself into hopeless tangles of nouns and verbs; but so does the hearing child. I am
sure these difficulties will take care of themselves. The impulse to tell is the important
thing. I supply a word here and there, sometimes a sentence, and suggest something which she
has omitted or forgotten. Thus her vocabulary grows apace, and the new words germinate and
bring forth new ideas; and they are the stuff out of which heaven and earth are made.

May 22, 1887.

My work grows more absorbing and interesting every day. Helen is a wonderful child, so spontaneous
and eager to learn. She knows about 300 words now and A GREAT MANY COMMON IDIOMS, and it is
not three months yet since she learned her first word. It is a rare privilege to watch the
birth, growth, and first feeble struggles of a living mind; this privilege is mine; and moreover,
it is given me to rouse and guide this bright intelligence.

If only I were better fitted for the great task! I feel every day more and more inadequate.
My mind is full of ideas; but I cannot get them into working shape. You see, my mind is undisciplined,
full of skips and jumps, and here and there a lot of things huddled together in dark corners.
How I long to put it in order! Oh, if only there were some one to help me! I need a teacher
quite as much as Helen. I know that the education of this child will be the distinguishing
event of my life, if I have the brains and perseverance to accomplish it. I have made up my
mind about one thing: Helen must learn to use books- indeed, we must both learn to use them,
and that reminds me--will you please ask Mr. Anagnos to get me Perez's and Sully's Psychologies?
I think I shall find them helpful.

We have reading lessons every day. Usually we take one of the little "Readers" up in a big
tree near the house and spend an hour or two finding the words Helen already knows. WE MAKE
A SORT OF GAME OF IT and try to see who can find the words most quickly, Helen with her fingers,
or I with my eyes, and she learns as many new words as I can explain with the help of those
she knows. When her fingers light upon words she knows, she fairly screams with pleasure and
hugs and kisses me for joy, especially if she thinks she has me beaten. It would astonish you
to see how many words she learns in an hour in this pleasant manner. Afterward I put the new
words into little sentences in the frame, and sometimes it is possible to tell a little story
about a bee or a cat or a little boy in this way. I can now tell her to go upstairs or down,
out of doors or into the house, lock or unlock a door, take or bring objects, sit, stand, walk,
run, lie, creep, roll, or climb. She is delighted with action-words; so it is no trouble at
all to teach her verbs. She is always ready for a lesson, and the eagerness with which she
absorbs ideas is very delightful. She is as triumphant over the conquest of a sentence as a
general who has captured the enemy's stronghold.

One of Helen's old habits, that is strongest and hardest to correct, is a tendency to break
things. If she finds anything in her way, she flings it on the floor, no matter what it is:
a glass, a pitcher, or even a lamp. She has a great many dolls, and every one of them has been
broken in a fit of temper or ennui. The other day a friend brought her a new doll from Memphis,
and I thought I would see if I could make Helen understand that she must not break it. I made
her go through the motion of knocking the doll's head on the table and spelled to her: "No,
no, Helen is naughty. Teacher is sad," and let her feel the grieved expression on my face.
Then I made her caress the doll and kiss the hurt spot and hold it gently in her arms, and
I spelled to her, "Good Helen, teacher is happy," and let her feel the smile on my face. She
went through these motions several times, mimicking every movement, then she stood very still
for a moment with a troubled look on her face, which suddenly cleared, and she spelled, "Good
Helen," and wreathed her face in a very large, artificial smile. Then she carried the doll
upstairs and put it on the top shelf of the wardrobe, and she has not touched it since.

Please give my kind regards to Mr. Anagnos and let him see my letter, if you think best. I
hear there is a deaf and blind child being educated at the Baltimore Institution.

June 2, 1887.

The weather is scorching. We need rain badly. We are all troubled about Helen. She is very
nervous and excitable. She is restless at night and has no appetite. It is hard to know what
to do with her. The doctor says her mind is too active; but how are we to keep her from thinking?
She begins to spell the minute she wakes up in the morning, and continues all day long. If
I refuse to talk to her, she spells into her own hand, and apparently carries on the liveliest
conversation with herself.

I gave her my braille slate to play with, thinking that the mechanical pricking of holes in
the paper would amuse her and rest her mind. But what was my astonishment when I found that
the little witch was writing letters! I had no idea she knew what a letter was. She has often
gone with me to the post-office to mail letters, and I suppose I have repeated to her things
I wrote to you. She knew, too, that I sometimes write "letters to blind girls" on the slate;
but I didn't suppose that she had any clear idea what a letter was. One day she brought me
a sheet that she had punched full of holes, and wanted to put it in an envelope and take it
to the post-office. She said, "Frank--letter." I asked her what she had written to Frank. She
replied, "Much words. Puppy motherdog--five. Baby--cry. Hot. Helen walk--no. Sunfire--bad.
Frank--come. Helen--kiss Frank. Strawberries--very good."

Helen is almost as eager to read as she is to talk. I find she grasps the import of whole sentences,
catching from the context the meaning of words she doesn't know; and her eager questions indicate
the outward reaching of her mind and its unusual powers.

The other night when I went to bed, I found Helen sound asleep with a big book clasped tightly
in her arms. She had evidently been reading, and fallen asleep. When I asked her about it in
the morning, she said, "Book--cry," and completed her meaning by shaking and other signs of
fear. I taught her the word AFRAID, and she said: "Helen is not afraid. Book is afraid. Book
will sleep with girl." I told her that the book wasn't afraid, and must sleep in its case,
and that "girl" mustn't read in bed. She looked very roguish, and apparently understood that
I saw through her ruse.

I am glad Mr. Anagnos thinks so highly of me as a teacher. But "genius" and "originality" are
words we should not use lightly. If, indeed, they apply to me even remotely, I do not see that
I deserve any laudation on that account.

And right here I want to say something which is for your ears alone. Something within me tells
me that I shall succeed beyond my dreams. Were it not for some circumstances that make such
an idea highly improbable, even absurd, I should think Helen's education would surpass in interest
and wonder Dr. Howe's achievement. I know that she has remarkable powers, and I believe that
I shall be able to develop and mould them. I cannot tell how I know these things. I had no
idea a short time ago how to go to work; I was feeling about in the dark; but somehow I know
now, and I know that I know. I cannot explain it; but when difficulties arise, I am not perplexed
or doubtful. I know how to meet them; I seem to divine Helen's peculiar needs. It is wonderful.

Already people are taking a deep interest in Helen. No one can see her without being impressed.
She is no ordinary child, and people's interest in her education will be no ordinary interest.
Therefore let us be exceedingly careful what we say and write about her. I shall write freely
to you and tell you everything, on one condition: It is this: you must promise never to show
my letters to any one. My beautiful Helen shall not be transformed into a prodigy if I can help it.

June 5, 1887.

The heat makes Helen languid and quiet. Indeed, the Tophetic weather has reduced us all to
a semi-liquid state. Yesterday Helen took off her clothes and sat in her skin all the afternoon.
When the sun got round to the window where she was sitting with her book, she got up impatiently
and shut the window. But when the sun came in just the same, she came over to me with a grieved
look and spelled emphatically: "Sun is bad boy. Sun must go to bed."

She is the dearest, cutest little thing now, and so loving! One day, when I wanted her to bring
me some water, she said: "Legs very tired. Legs cry much."

She is much interested in some little chickens that are pecking their way into the world this
morning. I let her hold a shell in her hand, and feel the chicken "chip, chip." Her astonishment,
when she felt the tiny creature inside, cannot be put in a letter. The hen was very gentle,
and made no objection to our investigations. Besides the chickens, we have several other additions
to the family--two calves, a colt, and a penful of funny little pigs. You would be amused to
see me hold a squealing pig in my arms, while Helen feels it all over, and asks countless questions--questions
not easy to answer either. After seeing the chicken come out of the egg, she asked: "Did baby
pig grow in egg? Where are many shells?"

Helen's head measures twenty and one-half inches, and mine measures twenty-one and one-half
inches. You see, I'm only one inch ahead!

June 12, 1887.

The weather continues hot. Helen is about the same--pale and thin; but you mustn't think she
is really ill. I am sure the heat, and not the natural, beautiful activity of her mind, is
responsible for her condition. Of course, I shall not overtax her brain. We are bothered a
good deal by people who assume the responsibility of the world when God is neglectful. They
tell us that Helen is "overdoing," that her mind is too active (these very people thought she
had no mind at all a few months ago!) and suggest many absurd and impossible remedies. But
so far nobody seems to have thought of chloroforming her, which is, I think, the only effective
way of stopping the natural exercise of her faculties. It's queer how ready people always are
with advice in any real or imaginary emergency, and no matter how many times experience has
shown them to be wrong, they continue to set forth their opinions, as if they had received
them from the Almighty!

I am teaching Helen the square-hand letters as a sort of diversion. It gives her something
to do, and keeps her quiet, which I think is desirable while this enervating weather lasts.
She has a perfect mania for counting. She has counted everything in the house, and is now busy
counting the words in her primer. I hope it will not occur to her to count the hairs of her
head. If she could see and hear, I suppose she would get rid of her superfluous energy in ways
which would not, perhaps, tax her brain so much, although I suspect that the ordinary child
takes his play pretty seriously. The little fellow who whirls his "New York Flyer" round the
nursery, making "horseshoe curves" undreamed of by less imaginative engineers, is concentrating
his whole soul on his toy locomotive.

She just came to say, with a worried expression, "Girl--not count very large (many) words."
I said, "No, go and play with Nancy." This suggestion didn't please her, however; for she replied,
"No. Nancy is very sick." I asked what was the matter, and she said, "Much (many) teeth do
make Nancy sick." (Mildred is teething.)

I happened to tell her the other day that the vine on the fence was a "creeper." She was greatly
amused, and began at once to find analogies between her movements and those of the plants.
They run, creep, hop, and skip, bend, fall, climb, and swing; but she tells me roguishly that
she is "walk-plant."

Helen held some worsted for me last night while I wound it. Afterward she began to swing round
and round, spelling to herself all the time, "Wind fast, wind slow," and apparently enjoying
her conceit very much.

June 15, 1887.

We had a glorious thunder-tempest last night, and it's much cooler to-day. We all feel refreshed,
as if we'd had a shower-bath. Helen's as lively as a cricket. She wanted to know if men were
shooting in the sky when she felt the thunder, and if the trees and flowers drank all the rain.

June 19, 1887.

My little pupil continues to manifest the same eagerness to learn as at first. Her every waking
moment is spent in the endeavour to satisfy her innate desire for knowledge, and her mind works
so incessantly that we have feared for her health. But her appetite, which left her a few weeks
ago, has returned, and her sleep seems more quiet and natural. She will be seven years old
the twenty-seventh of this month. Her height is four feet one inch, and her head measures twenty
and one-half inches in circumference, the line being drawn round the head so as to pass over
the prominences of the parietal and frontal bones. Above this line the head rises one and one-fourth
inches.

During our walks she keeps up a continual spelling, and delights to accompany it with actions
such as skipping, hopping, jumping, running, walking fast, walking slow, and the like. When
she drops stitches she says, "Helen wrong, teacher will cry." If she wants water she says,
"Give Helen drink water." She knows four hundred words besides numerous proper nouns. In one
lesson I taught her these words: BEDSTEAD, MATTRESS, SHEET, BLANKET, COMFORTER, SPREAD, PILLOW.
The next day I found that she remembered all but spread. The same day she had learned, at different
times, the words: hOUSE, WEED, DUST, SWING, MOLASSES, FAST, SLOW, MAPLE-SUGAR and COUNTER,
and she had not forgotten one of these last. This will give you an idea of the retentive memory
she possesses. She can count to thirty very quickly, and can write seven of the square-hand
letters and the words which can be made with them. She seems to understand about writing letters,
and is impatient to "write Frank letter." She enjoys punching holes in paper with the stiletto,
and I supposed it was because she could examine the result of her work; but we watched her
one day, and I was much surprised to find that she imagined she was writing a letter. She would
spell "Eva" (a cousin of whom she is very fond) with one hand, then make believe to write it;
then spell, "sick in bed," and write that. She kept this up for nearly an hour. She was (or
imagined she was) putting on paper the things which had interested her. When she had finished
the letter she carried it to her mother and spelled, "Frank letter," and gave it to her brother
to take to the post-office. She had been with me to take letters to the post-office.

She recognizes instantly a person whom she has once met, and spells the name. Unlike Laura
Bridgman, she is fond of gentlemen, and we notice that she makes friends with a gentleman sooner
than with a lady.

She is always ready to share whatever she has with those about her, often keeping but very
little for herself. She is very fond of dress and of all kinds of finery, and is very unhappy
when she finds a hole in anything she is wearing. She will insist on having her hair put in
curl papers when she is so sleepy she can scarcely stand. She discovered a hole in her boot
the other morning, and, after breakfast, she went to her father and spelled, "Helen new boot
Simpson (her brother) buggy store man." One can easily see her meaning.

July 3, 1887.

There was a great rumpus downstairs this morning. I heard Helen screaming, and ran down to
see what was the matter. I found her in a terrible passion. I had hoped this would never happen
again. She has been so gentle and obedient the past two months, I thought love had subdued
the lion; but it seems he was only sleeping. At all events, there she was, tearing and scratching
and biting Viney like some wild thing. It seems Viney had attempted to take a glass, which
Helen was filling with stones, fearing that she would break it. Helen resisted, and Viney tried
to force it out of her hand, and I suspect that she slapped the child, or did something which
caused this unusual outburst of temper. When I took her hand she was trembling violently, and
began to cry. I asked what was the matter, and she spelled: "Viney--bad," and began to slap
and kick her with renewed violence. I held her hands firmly until she became more calm.

Later Helen came to my room, looking very sad, and wanted to kiss me. I said, "I cannot kiss
naughty girl." She spelled, "Helen is good, Viney is bad." I said: "You struck Viney and kicked
her and hurt her. You were very naughty, and I cannot kiss naughty girl." She stood very still
for a moment, and it was evident from her face, which was flushed and troubled, that a struggle
was going on in her mind. Then she said: "Helen did (does) not love teacher. Helen do love
mother. Mother will whip Viney." I told her that she had better not talk about it any more,
but think. She knew that I was much troubled, and would have liked to stay near me; but I thought
it best for her to sit by herself. At the dinner-table she was greatly disturbed because I
didn't eat, and suggested that "Cook make tea for teacher." But I told her that my heart was
sad, and I didn't feel like eating. She began to cry and sob and clung to me.

She was very much excited when we went upstairs; so I tried to interest her in a curious insect
called a stick-bug. It's the queerest thing I ever saw--a little bundle of fagots fastened
together in the middle. I wouldn't believe it was alive until I saw it move. Even then it looked
more like a mechanical toy than a living creature. But the poor little girl couldn't fix her
attention. Her heart was full of trouble, and she wanted to talk about it. She said: "Can bug
know about naughty girl? Is bug very happy?" Then, putting her arms round my neck, she said:
"I am (will be) good to-morrow. Helen is (will be) good all days." I said, "Will you tell Viney
you are very sorry you scratched and kicked her?" She smiled and answered, "Viney (can) not
spell words." "I will tell Viney you are very sorry," I said. "Will you go with me and find
Viney?" She was very willing to go, and let Viney kiss her, though she didn't return the caress.
She has been unusually affectionate since, and it seems to me there is a sweetness-a soul-beauty
in her face which I have not seen before.

July 31, 1887.

Helen's pencil-writing is excellent, as you will see from the enclosed letter, which she wrote
for her own amusement. I am teaching her the braille alphabet, and she is delighted to be able
to make words herself that she can feel.

She has now reached the question stage of her development. It is "what?" "why?" "when?" especially
"why?" all day long, and as her intelligence grows her inquiries become more insistent. I remember
how unbearable I used to find the inquisitiveness of my friends' children; but I know now that
these questions indicate the child's growing interest in the cause of things. The "why?" is
the DOOR THROUGH WHICH HE ENTERS THE WORLD OF REASON AND REFLECTION. "How does carpenter know
to build house?" "Who put chickens in eggs?" "Why is Viney black?" "Flies bite--why?" "Can
flies know not to bite?" "Why did father kill sheep?" Of course she asks many questions that
are not as intelligent as these. Her mind isn't more logical than the minds of ordinary children.
On the whole, her questions are analogous to those that a bright three-year-old child asks;
but her desire for knowledge is so earnest, the questions are never tedious, though they draw
heavily upon my meager store of information, and tax my ingenuity to the utmost.

I had a letter from Laura Bridgman last Sunday. Please give her my love, and tell her Helen
sends her a kiss. I read the letter at the supper-table, and Mrs. Keller exclaimed: "My, Miss
Annie, Helen writes almost as well as that now!" It is true.

August 21, 1887.

We had a beautiful time in Huntsville. Everybody there was delighted with Helen, and showered
her with gifts and kisses. The first evening she learned the names of all the people in the
hotel, about twenty, I think. The next morning we were astonished to find that she remembered
all of them, and recognized every one she had met the night before. She taught the young people
the alphabet, and several of them learned to talk with her. One of the girls taught her to
dance the polka, and a little boy showed her his rabbits and spelled their names for her. She
was delighted, and showed her pleasure by hugging and kissing the little fellow, which embarrassed
him very much.

We had Helen's picture taken with a fuzzy, red-eyed little poodle, who got himself into my
lady's good graces by tricks and cunning devices known only to dogs with an instinct for getting
what they want.

She has talked incessantly since her return about what she did in Huntsville, and we notice
a very decided improvement in her ability to use language. Curiously enough, a drive we took
to the top of Monte Sano, a beautiful mountain not far from Huntsville, seems to have impressed
her more than anything else, except the wonderful poodle. She remembers all that I told her
about it, and in telling her mother REPEATED THE VERY WORDS AND PHRASES I HAD USED IN DESCRIBING
IT TO HER. In conclusion she asked her mother if she should like to see "very high mountain
and beautiful cloudcaps." I hadn't used this expression. I said, "The clouds touch the mountain
softly, like beautiful flowers." You see, I had to use words and images with which she was
familiar through the sense of touch. But it hardly seems possible that any mere words should
convey to one who has never seen a mountain the faintest idea of its grandeur; and I don't
see how any one is ever to know what impression she did receive, or the cause of her pleasure
in what was told her about it. All that we do know certainly is that she has a good memory
and imagination and the faculty of association.

August 28, 1887.

I do wish things would stop being born! "New puppies," "new calves" and "new babies" keep Helen's
interest in the why and wherefore of things at white heat. The arrival of a new baby at Ivy
Green the other day was the occasion of a fresh outburst of questions about the origin of babies
and live things in general. "Where did Leila get new baby? How did doctor know where to find
baby? Did Leila tell doctor to get very small new baby? Where did doctor find Guy and Prince?"
(puppies) "Why is Elizabeth Evelyn's sister?" etc., etc. These questions were sometimes asked
under circumstances which rendered them embarrassing, and I made up my mind that something
must be done. If it was natural for Helen to ask such questions, it was my duty to answer them.
It's a great mistake, I think, to put children off with falsehoods and nonsense, when their
growing powers of observation and discrimination excite in them a desire to know about things.
From the beginning, I HAVE MADE IT A PRACTICE TO ANSWER ALL HELEN'S QUESTIONS TO THE BEST OF
MY ABILITY IN A WAY INTELLIGIBLE TO HER, and at the same time truthfully. "Why should I treat
these questions differently?" I asked myself. I decided that there was no reason, except my
deplorable ignorance of the great facts that underlie our physical existence. It was no doubt
because of this ignorance that I rushed in where more experienced angels fear to tread. There
isn't a living soul in this part of the world to whom I can go for advice in this, or indeed,
in any other educational difficulty. The only thing for me to do in a perplexity is to go ahead,
and learn by making mistakes. But in this case I don't think I made a mistake. I took Helen
and my Botany, "How Plants Grow," up in the tree, where we often go to read and study, and
I told her in simple words the story of plantlife. I reminded her of the corn, beans and watermelon-seed
she had planted in the spring, and told her that the tall corn in the garden, and the beans
and watermelon vines had grown from those seeds. I explained how the earth keeps the seeds
warm and moist, until the little leaves are strong enough to push themselves out into the light
and air where they can breathe and grow and bloom and make more seeds, from which other baby-plants
shall grow. I drew an analogy between plant and animal-life, and told her that seeds are eggs
as truly as hens' eggs and birds' eggs--that the mother hen keeps her eggs warm and dry until
the little chicks come out. I made her understand that all life comes from an egg. The mother
bird lays her eggs in a nest and keeps them warm until the birdlings are hatched. The mother
fish lays her eggs where she knows they will be moist and safe, until it is time for the little
fish to come out. I told her that she could call the egg the cradle of life. Then I told her
that other animals like the dog and cow, and human beings, do not lay their eggs, but nourish
their young in their own bodies. I had no difficulty in making it clear to her that if plants
and animals didn't produce offspring after their kind, they would cease to exist, and everything
in the world would soon die. But the function of sex I passed over as lightly as possible.
I did, however, try to give her the idea that love is the great continuer of life. The subject
was difficult, and my knowledge inadequate; but I am glad I didn't shirk my responsibility;
for, stumbling, hesitating, and incomplete as my explanation was, it touched deep responsive
chords in the soul of my little pupil, and the readiness with which she comprehended the great
facts of physical life confirmed me in the opinion that the child has dormant within him, when
he comes into the world, all the experiences of the race. These experiences are like photographic
negatives, until language develops them and brings out the memory-images.

September 4, 1887.

Helen had a letter this morning from her uncle, Doctor Keller. He invited her to come to see
him at Hot Springs. The name Hot Springs interested her, and she asked many questions about
it. She knows about cold springs. There are several near Tuscumbia; one very large one from
which the town got its name. "Tuscumbia" is the Indian for "Great Spring." But she was surprised
that hot water should come out of the ground. She wanted to know who made fire under the ground,
and if it was like the fire in stoves, and if it burned the roots of plants and trees.

She was much pleased with the letter, and after she had asked all the questions she could think
of, she took it to her mother, who was sewing in the hall, and read it to her. It was amusing
to see her hold it before her eyes and spell the sentences out on her fingers, just as I had
done. Afterward she tried to read it to Belle (the dog) and Mildred. Mrs. Keller and I watched
the nursery comedy from the door. Belle was sleepy, and Mildred inattentive. Helen looked very
serious, and, once or twice, when Mildred tried to take the letter, she put her hand away impatiently.
Finally Belle got up, shook herself, and was about to walk away, when Helen caught her by the
neck and forced her to lie down again. In the meantime Mildred had got the letter and crept
away with it. Helen felt on the floor for it, but not finding it there, she evidently suspected
Mildred; for she made the little sound which is her "baby call." Then she got up and stood
very still, as if listening with her feet for Mildred's "thump, thump." When she had located
the sound, she went quickly toward the little culprit and found her chewing the precious letter!
This was too much for Helen. She snatched the letter and slapped the little hands soundly.
Mrs. Keller took the baby in her arms, and when we had succeeded in pacifying her, I asked
Helen, "What did you do to baby?" She looked troubled, and hesitated a moment before answering.
Then she said: "Wrong girl did eat letter. Helen did slap very wrong girl." I told her that
Mildred was very small, and didn't know that it was wrong to put the letter in her mouth.

"I did tell baby, no, no, much (many) times," was Helen's reply.

I said, "Mildred doesn't understand your fingers, and we must be very gentle with her."

She shook her head.

"Baby--not think. Helen will give baby pretty letter," and with that she ran upstairs and brought
down a neatly folded sheet of braille, on which she had written some words, and gave it to
Mildred, saying, "Baby can eat all words."

September 18, 1887.

I do not wonder you were surprised to hear that I was going to write something for the report.
I do not know myself how it happened, except that I got tired of saying "no," and Captain Keller
urged me to do it. He agreed with Mr. Anagnos that it was my duty to give others the benefit
of my experience. Besides, they said Helen's wonderful deliverance might be a boon to other
afflicted children.

When I sit down to write, my thoughts freeze, and when I get them on paper they look like wooden
soldiers all in a row, and if a live one happens along, I put him in a strait-jacket. It's
easy enough, however, to say Helen is wonderful, because she really is. I kept a record of
everything she said last week, and I found that she knows six hundred words. This does not
mean, however, that she always uses them correctly. Sometimes her sentences are like Chinese
puzzles; but they are the kind of puzzles children make when they try to express their half-formed
ideas by means of arbitrary language. She has the true language-impulse, and shows great fertility
of resource in making the words at her command convey her meaning.

Lately she has been much interested in colour. She found the word "brown" in her primer and
wanted to know its meaning. I told her that her hair was brown, and she asked, "Is brown very
pretty?" After we had been all over the house, and I had told her the colour of everything
she touched, she suggested that we go to the hen-houses and barns; but I told her she must
wait until another day because I was very tired. We sat in the hammock; but there was no rest
for the weary there. Helen was eager to know "more colour." I wonder if she has any vague idea
of colour--any reminiscent impression of light and sound. It seems as if a child who could
see and hear until her nineteenth month must retain some of her first impressions, though ever
so faintly. Helen talks a great deal about things that she cannot know of through the sense
of touch. She asks many questions about the sky, day and night, the ocean and mountains. She
likes to have me tell her what I see in pictures.

But I seem to have lost the thread of my discourse. "What colour is think?" was one of the
restful questions she asked, as we swung to and fro in the hammock. I told her that when we
are happy our thoughts are bright, and when we are naughty they are sad. Quick as a flash she
said, "My think is white, Viney's think is black." You see, she had an idea that the colour
of our thoughts matched that of our skin. I couldn't help laughing, for at that very moment
Viney was shouting at the top of her voice:

"I long to sit on dem jasper walls And see dem sinners stumble and fall!"

October 3, 1887.

My account for the report is finished and sent off. I have two copies, and will send you one;
but you mustn't show it to anybody. It's Mr. Anagnos's property until it is published.

I suppose the little girls enjoyed Helen's letter. She wrote it out of her own head, as the
children say.

She talks a great deal about what she will do when she goes to Boston. She asked the other
day, "Who made all things and Boston?" She says Mildred will not go there because "Baby does
cry all days."

October 25, 1887.

Helen wrote another letter to the little girls yesterday, and her father sent it to Mr. Anagnos.
Ask him to let you see it. She has begun to use the pronouns of her own accord. This morning
I happened to say, "Helen will go upstairs." She laughed and said, "Teacher is wrong. You will
go upstairs." This is another great forward step. Thus it always is. Yesterday's perplexities
are strangely simple to-day, and to-day's difficulties become to-morrow's pastime.

The rapid development of Helen's mind is beautiful to watch. I doubt if any teacher ever had
a work of such absorbing interest. There must have been one lucky star in the heavens at my
birth, and I am just beginning to feel its beneficent influence.

I had two letters from Mr. Anagnos last week. He is more grateful for my report than the English
idiom will express. Now he wants a picture "of darling Helen and her illustrious teacher, to
grace the pages of the forthcoming annual report."

October, 1887.

You have probably read, ere this, Helen's second letter to the little girls. I am aware that
the progress which she has made between the writing of the two letters must seem incredible.
Only those who are with her daily can realize the rapid advancement which she is making in
the acquisition of language. You will see from her letter that she uses many pronouns correctly.
She rarely misuses or omits one in conversation. Her passion for writing letters and putting
her thoughts upon paper grows more intense. She now tells stories in which the imagination
plays an important part. She is also beginning to realize that she is not like other children.
The other day she asked, "What do my eyes do?" I told her that I could see things with my eyes,
and that she could see them with her fingers. After thinking a moment she said, "My eyes are
bad!" then she changed it into "My eyes are sick!"

Miss Sullivan's first report, which was published in the official report of the Perkins Institution
for the year 1887, is a short summary of what is fully recorded in the letters. Here follows
the last part, beginning with the great day, April 5th, when Helen learned water.

In her reports Miss Sullivan speaks of "lessons" as if they came in regular order. This is
the effect of putting it all in a summary. "Lesson" is too formal for the continuous daily work.

One day I took her to the cistern. As the water gushed from the pump I spelled "w-a-t-e-r."
Instantly she tapped my hand for a repetition, and then made the word herself with a radiant
face. Just then the nurse came into the cistern-house bringing her little sister. I put Helen's
hand on the baby and formed the letters "b-a-b-y," which she repeated without help and with
the light of a new intelligence in her face.

On our way back to the house everything she touched had to be named for her, and repetition
was seldom necessary. Neither the length of the word nor the combination of letters seems to
make any difference to the child. Indeed, she remembers HELIOTROPE and CHRYSANTHEMUM more readily
than she does shorter names. At the end of August she knew 625 words.

This lesson was followed by one on words indicative of place-relations. Her dress was put IN
a trunk, and then ON it, and these prepositions were spelled for her. Very soon she learned
the difference between ON and IN, though it was some time before she could use these words
in sentences of her own. Whenever it was possible she was made the actor in the lesson, and
was delighted to stand ON the chair, and to be put INTO the wardrobe. In connection with this
lesson she learned the names of the members of the family and the word IS. "Helen is in wardrobe,"
"Mildred is in crib," "Box is on table," "Papa is on bed," are specimens of sentences constructed
by her during the latter part of April.

Next came a lesson on words expressive of positive quality. For the first lesson I had two
balls, one made of worsted, large and soft, the other a bullet. She perceived the difference
in size at once. Taking the bullet she made her habitual sign for SMALL--that is, by pinching
a little bit of the skin of one hand. Then she took the other ball and made her sign for LARGE
by spreading both hands over it. I substituted the adjectives LARGE and SMALL for those signs.
Then her attention was called to the hardness of the one ball and the softness of the other,
and she learned SOFT and HARD. A few minutes afterward she felt of her little sister's head
and said to her mother, "Mildred's head is small and hard." Next I tried to teach her the meaning
of FAST and SLOW. She helped me wind some worsted one day, first rapidly and afterward slowly.
I then said to her with the finger alphabet, "wind fast," or "wind slow," holding her hands
and showing her how to do as I wished. The next day, while exercising, she spelled to me, "Helen
wind fast," and began to walk rapidly. Then she said, "Helen wind slow," again suiting the
action to the words.

I now thought it time to teach her to read printed words. A slip on which was printed, in raised
letters, the word BOX was placed on the object, and the same experiment was tried with a great
many articles, but she did not immediately comprehend that the label-name represented the thing.
Then I took an alphabet sheet and put her finger on the letter A, at the same time making A
with my fingers. She moved her finger from one printed character to another as I formed each
letter on my fingers. She learned all the letters, both capital and small, in one day. Next
I turned to the first page of the primer and made her touch the word CAT, spelling it on my
fingers at the same time. Instantly she caught the idea, and asked me to find DOG and many
other words. Indeed, she was much displeased because I could not find her name in the book.
Just then I had no sentences in raised letters which she could understand; but she would sit
for hours feeling each word in her book. When she touched one with which she was familiar,
a peculiarly sweet expression lighted her face, and we saw her countenance growing sweeter
and more earnest every day. About this time I sent a list of the words she knew to Mr. Anagnos,
and he very kindly had them printed for her. Her mother and I cut up several sheets of printed
words so that she could arrange them into sentences. This delighted her more than anything
she had yet done; and the practice thus obtained prepared the way for the writing lessons.
There was no difficulty in making her understand how to write the same sentences with pencil
and paper which she made every day with the slips, and she very soon perceived that she need
not confine herself to phrases already learned, but could communicate any thought that was
passing through her mind. I put one of the writing boards used by the blind between the folds
of the paper on the table, and allowed her to examine an alphabet of the square letters, such
as she was to make. I then guided her hand to form the sentence, "Cat does drink milk." When
she finished it she was overjoyed. She carried it to her mother, who spelled it to her.

Day after day she moved her pencil in the same tracks along the grooved paper, never for a
moment expressing the least impatience or sense of fatigue.

As she had now learned to express her ideas on paper, I next taught her the braille system.
She learned it gladly when she discovered that she could herself read what she had written;
and this still affords her constant pleasure. For a whole evening she will sit at the table
writing whatever comes into her busy brain; and I seldom find any difficulty in reading what
she has written.

Her progress in arithmetic has been equally remarkable. She can add and subtract with great
rapidity up to the sum of one hundred; and she knows the multiplication tables as far as the
FIVES. She was working recently with the number forty, when I said to her, "Make twos." She
replied immediately, "Twenty twos make forty." Later I said, "Make fifteen threes and count."
I wished her to make the groups of threes and supposed she would then have to count them in
order to know what number fifteen threes would make. But instantly she spelled the answer:
"Fifteen threes make forty-five."

On being told that she was white and that one of the servants was black, she concluded that
all who occupied a similar menial position were of the same hue; and whenever I asked her the
colour of a servant she would say "black." When asked the colour of some one whose occupation
she did not know she seemed bewildered, and finally said "blue."

She has never been told anything about death or the burial of the body, and yet on entering
the cemetery for the first time in her life, with her mother and me, to look at some flowers,
she laid her hand on our eyes and repeatedly spelled "cry--cry." Her eyes actually filled with
tears. The flowers did not seem to give her pleasure, and she was very quiet while we stayed there.

On another occasion while walking with me she seemed conscious of the presence of her brother,
although we were distant from him. She spelled his name repeatedly and started in the direction
in which he was coming.

When walking or riding she often gives the names of the people we meet almost as soon as we
recognize them.

The letters take up the account again.

November 13, 1887.

We took Helen to the circus, and had "the time of our lives"! The circus people were much interested
in Helen, and did everything they could to make her first circus a memorable event. They let
her feel the animals whenever it was safe. She fed the elephants, and was allowed to climb
up on the back of the largest, and sit in the lap of the "Oriental Princess," while the elephant
marched majestically around the ring. She felt some young lions. They were as gentle as kittens;
but I told her they would get wild and fierce as they grew older. She said to the keeper, "I
will take the baby lions home and teach them to be mild." The keeper of the bears made one
big black fellow stand on his hind legs and hold out his great paw to us, which Helen shook
politely. She was greatly delighted with the monkeys and kept her hand on the star performer
while he went through his tricks, and laughed heartily when he took off his hat to the audience.
One cute little fellow stole her hair-ribbon, and another tried to snatch the flowers out of
her hat. I don't know who had the best time, the monkeys, Helen or the spectators. One of the
leopards licked her hands, and the man in charge of the giraffes lifted her up in his arms
so that she could feel their ears and see how tall they were. She also felt a Greek chariot,
and the charioteer would have liked to take her round the ring; but she was afraid of "many
swift horses." The riders and clowns and rope-walkers were all glad to let the little blind
girl feel their costumes and follow their motions whenever it was possible, and she kissed
them all, to show her gratitude. Some of them cried, and the wild man of Borneo shrank from
her sweet little face in terror. She has talked about nothing but the circus ever since. In
order to answer her questions, I have been obliged to read a great deal about animals. At present
I feel like a jungle on wheels!

December 12, 1887.

I find it hard to realize that Christmas is almost here, in spite of the fact that Helen talks
about nothing else. Do you remember what a happy time we had last Christmas?

Helen has learned to tell the time at last, and her father is going to give her a watch for
Christmas.

Helen is as eager to have stories told her as any hearing child I ever knew. She has made me
repeat the story of little Red Riding Hood so often that I believe I could say it backward.
She likes stories that make her cry--I think we all do, it's so nice to feel sad when you've
nothing particular to be sad about. I am teaching her little rhymes and verses, too. They fix
beautiful thoughts in her memory. I think, too, that they quicken all the child's faculties,
because they stimulate the imagination. Of course I don't try to explain everything. If I did,
there would be no opportunity for the play of fancy. TOO MUCH EXPLANATION DIRECTS THE CHILD'S
ATTENTION TO WORDS AND SENTENCES, SO THAT HE FAILS TO GET THE THOUGHT AS A WHOLE. I do not
think anyone can read, or talk for that matter, until he forgets words and sentences in the
technical sense.

January 1, 1888.

It is a great thing to feel that you are of some use in the world, that you are necessary to
somebody. Helen's dependence on me for almost everything makes me strong and glad.

Christmas week was a very busy one here, too. Helen is invited to all the children's entertainments,
and I take her to as many as I can. I want her to know children and to be with them as much
as possible. Several little girls have learned to spell on their fingers and are very proud
of the accomplishment. One little chap, about seven, was persuaded to learn the letters, and
he spelled his name for Helen. She was delighted, and showed her joy, by hugging and kissing
him, much to his embarrassment.

Saturday the school-children had their tree, and I took Helen. It was the first Christmas tree
she had ever seen, and she was puzzled, and asked many questions. "Who made tree grow in house?
Why? Who put many things on tree?" She objected to its miscellaneous fruits and began to remove
them, evidently thinking they were all meant for her. It was not difficult, however, to make
her understand that there was a present for each child, and to her great delight she was permitted
to hand the gifts to the children. There were several presents for herself. She placed them
in a chair, resisting all temptation to look at them until every child had received his gifts.
One little girl had fewer presents than the rest, and Helen insisted on sharing her gifts with
her. It was very sweet to see the children's eager interest in Helen, and their readiness to
give her pleasure. The exercises began at nine, and it was one o'clock before we could leave.
My fingers and head ached; but Helen was as fresh and full of spirit as when we left home.

After dinner it began to snow, and we had a good frolic and an interesting lesson about the
snow. Sunday morning the ground was covered, and Helen and the cook's children and I played
snowball. By noon the snow was all gone. It was the first snow I had seen here, and it made
me a little homesick. The Christmas season has furnished many lessons, and added scores of
new words to Helen's vocabulary.

For weeks we did nothing but talk and read and tell each other stories about Christmas. Of
course I do not try to explain all the new words, nor does Helen fully understand the little
stories I tell her; but constant repetition fixes the words and phrases in the mind, and little
by little the meaning will come to her. I SEE NO SENSE IN "FAKING" CONVERSATION FOR THE SAKE
OF TEACHING LANGUAGE. IT'S STUPID AND DEADENING TO PUPIL AND TEACHER. TALK SHOULD BE NATURAL
AND HAVE FOR ITS OBJECT AN EXCHANGE OF IDEAS. If there is nothing in the child's mind to communicate,
it hardly seems worth while to require him to write on the blackboard, or spell on his fingers,
cut and dried sentences about "the cat," "the bird," "a dog." I HAVE TRIED FROM THE BEGINNING
TO TALK NATURALLY TO HELEN AND TO TEACH HER TO TELL ME ONLY THINGS THAT INTEREST HER AND ASK
QUESTIONS ONLY FOR THE SAKE OF FINDING OUT WHAT SHE WANTS TO KNOW. When I see that she is eager
to tell me something, but is hampered because she does not know the words, I supply them and
the necessary idioms, and we get along finely. The child's eagerness and interest carry her
over many obstacles that would be our undoing if we stopped to define and explain everything.
What would happen, do you think, if some one should try to measure our intelligence by our
ability to define the commonest words we use? I fear me, if I were put to such a test, I should
be consigned to the primary class in a school for the feeble-minded.

It was touching and beautiful to see Helen enjoy her first Christmas. Of course, she hung her
stocking--two of them lest Santa Claus should forget one, and she lay awake for a long time
and got up two or three times to see if anything had happened. When I told her that Santa Claus
would not come until she was asleep, she shut her eyes and said, "He will think girl is asleep."
She was awake the first thing in the morning, and ran to the fireplace for her stocking; and
when she found that Santa Claus had filled both stockings, she danced about for a minute, then
grew very quiet, and came to ask me if I thought Santa Claus had made a mistake, and thought
there were two little girls, and would come back for the gifts when he discovered his mistake.
The ring you sent her was in the toe of the stocking, and when I told her you gave it to Santa
Claus for her, she said, "I do love Mrs. Hopkins." She had a trunk and clothes for Nancy, and
her comment was, "Now Nancy will go to party." When she saw the braille slate and paper, she
said, "I will write many letters, and I will thank Santa Claus very much." It was evident that
every one, especially Captain and Mrs. Keller, was deeply moved at the thought of the difference
between this bright Christmas and the last, when their little girl had no conscious part in
the Christmas festivities. As we came downstairs, Mrs. Keller said to me with tears in her
eyes, "Miss Annie, I thank God every day of my life for sending you to us; but I never realized
until this morning what a blessing you have been to us." Captain Keller took my hand, but could
not speak. But his silence was more eloquent than words. My heart, too, was full of gratitude
and solemn joy.

The other day Helen came across the word grandfather in a little story and asked her mother,
"Where is grandfather?" meaning her grandfather. Mrs. Keller replied, "He is dead." "Did father
shoot him?" Helen asked, and added, "I will eat grandfather for dinner." So far, her only knowledge
of death is in connection with things to eat. She knows that her father shoots partridges and
deer and other game.

This morning she asked me the meaning of "carpenter," and the question furnished the text for
the day's lesson. After talking about the various things that carpenters make, she asked me,
"Did carpenter make me?" and before I could answer, she spelled quickly, "No, no, photographer
made me in Sheffield."

One of the greatest iron furnaces has been started in Sheffield, and we went over the other
evening to see them make a "run." Helen felt the heat and asked, "Did the sun fall?"

January 9, 1888.

The report came last night. I appreciate the kind things Mr. Anagnos has said about Helen and
me; but his extravagant way of saying them rubs me the wrong way. The simple facts would be
so much more convincing! Why, for instance, does he take the trouble to ascribe motives to
me that I never dreamed of? You know, and he knows, and I know, that my motive in coming here
was not in any sense philanthropic. How ridiculous it is to say I had drunk so copiously of
the noble spirit of Dr. Howe that I was fired with the desire to rescue from darkness and obscurity
the little Alabamian! I came here simply because circumstances made it necessary for me to
earn my living, and I seized upon the first opportunity that offered itself, although I did
not suspect nor did he, that I had any special fitness for the work.

January 26, 1888.

I suppose you got Helen's letter. The little rascal has taken it into her head not to write
with a pencil. I wanted her to write to her Uncle Frank this morning, but she objected. She
said: "Pencil is very tired in head. I will write Uncle Frank braille letter." I said, "But
Uncle Frank cannot read braille." "I will teach him," she said. I explained that Uncle Frank
was old, and couldn't learn braille easily. In a flash she answered, "I think Uncle Frank is
much (too) old to read very small letters." Finally I persuaded her to write a few lines; but
she broke her pencil six times before she finished it. I said to her, "You are a naughty girl."
"No," she replied, "pencil is very weak." I think her objection to pencil-writing is readily
accounted for by the fact that she has been asked to write so many specimens for friends and
strangers. You know how the children at the Institution detest it. It is irksome because the
process is so slow, and they cannot read what they have written or correct their mistakes.

Helen is more and more interested in colour. When I told her that Mildred's eyes were blue,
she asked, "Are they like wee skies?" A little while after I had told her that a carnation
that had been given her was red, she puckered up her mouth and said, "Lips are like one pink."
I told her they were tulips; but of course she didn't understand the word-play. I can't believe
that the colour-impressions she received during the year and a half she could see and hear
are entirely lost. Everything we have seen and heard is in the mind somewhere. It may be too
vague and confused to be recognizable, but it is there all the same, like the landscape we
lose in the deepening twilight.

February 10, 1888.

We got home last night. We had a splendid time in Memphis, but I didn't rest much. It was nothing
but excitement from first to last--drives, luncheons, receptions, and all that they involve
when you have an eager, tireless child like Helen on your hands. She talked incessantly. I
don't know what I should have done, had some of the young people not learned to talk with her.
They relieved me as much as possible. But even then I can never have a quiet half hour to myself.
It is always: "Oh, Miss Sullivan, please come and tell us what Helen means," or "Miss Sullivan,
won't you please explain this to Helen? We can't make her understand." I believe half the white
population of Memphis called on us. Helen was petted and caressed enough to spoil an angel;
but I do not think it is possible to spoil her, she is too unconscious of herself, and too loving.

The stores in Memphis are very good, and I managed to spend all the money that I had with me.
One day Helen said, "I must buy Nancy a very pretty hat." I said, "Very well, we will go shopping
this afternoon." She had a silver dollar and a dime. When we reached the shop, I asked her
how much she would pay for Nancy's hat. She answered promptly, "I will pay ten cents." "What
will you do with the dollar?" I asked. "I will buy some good candy to take to Tuscumbia," was
her reply.

We visited the Stock Exchange and a steamboat. Helen was greatly interested in the boat, and
insisted on being shown every inch of it from the engine to the flag on the flagstaff. I was
gratified to read what the Nation had to say about Helen last week.

Captain Keller has had two interesting letters since the publication of the "Report," one from
Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, and the other from Dr. Edward Everett Hale. Dr. Hale claims kinship
with Helen, and seems very proud of his little cousin. Dr. Bell writes that Helen's progress
is without a parallel in the education of the deaf, or something like that and he says many
nice things about her teacher.

March 5, 1888.

I did not have a chance to finish my letter yesterday. Miss Ev. came up to help me make a list
of words Helen has learned. We have got as far as P, and there are 900 words to her credit.
I had Helen begin a journal March 1st.[Most of this journal was lost. Fortunately, however,
Helen Keller wrote so many letters and exercises that there is no lack of records of that sort.]
I don't know how long she will keep it up. It's rather stupid business, I think. Just now she
finds it great fun. She seems to like to tell all she knows. This is what Helen wrote Sunday:

"I got up, washed my face and hands, combed my hair, picked three dew violets for Teacher and
ate my breakfast. After breakfast I played with dolls short. Nancy was cross. Cross is cry
and kick. I read in my book about large, fierce animals. Fierce is much cross and strong and
very hungry. I do not love fierce animals. I wrote letter to Uncle James. He lives in Hotsprings.
He is doctor. Doctor makes sick girl well. I do not like sick. Then I ate my dinner. I like
much icecream very much. After dinner father went to Birmingham on train far away. I had letter
from Robert. He loves me. He said Dear Helen, Robert was glad to get a letter from dear, sweet
little Helen. I will come to see you when the sun shines. Mrs. Newsum is Robert's wife. Robert
is her husband. Robert and I will run and jump and hop and dance and swing and talk about birds
and flowers and trees and grass and Jumbo and Pearl will go with us. Teacher will say, We are
silly. She is funny. Funny makes us laugh. Natalie is a good girl and does not cry. Mildred
does cry. She will be a nice girl in many days and run and play with me. Mrs. Graves is making
short dresses for Natalie. Mr. Mayo went to Duckhill and brought home many sweet flowers. Mr.
Mayo and Mr. Farris and Mr. Graves love me and Teacher. I am going to Memphis to see them soon,
and they will hug and kiss me. Thornton goes to school and gets his face dirty. Boy must be
very careful. After supper I played romp with Teacher in bed. She buried me under the pillows
and then I grew very slow like tree out of ground. Now, I will go to bed. HELEN KELLER."

April 16, 1888.

We are just back from church. Captain Keller said at breakfast this morning that he wished
I would take Helen to church. The Presbytery would be there in a body, and he wanted the ministers
to see Helen. The Sunday-school was in session when we arrived, and I wish you could have seen
the sensation Helen's entrance caused. The children were so pleased to see her at Sunday-school,
they paid no attention to their teachers, but rushed out of their seats and surrounded us.
She kissed them all, boys and girls, willing or unwilling. She seemed to think at first that
the children all belonged to the visiting ministers; but soon she recognized some little friends
among them, and I told her the ministers didn't bring their children with them. She looked
disappointed and said, "I'll send them many kisses." One of the ministers wished me to ask
Helen, "What do ministers do?" She said, "They read and talk loud to people to be good." He
put her answer down in his note book. When it was time for the church service to begin, she
was in such a state of excitement that I thought it best to take her away; but Captain Keller
said, "No, she will be all right." So there was nothing to do but stay. It was impossible to
keep Helen quiet. She hugged and kissed me, and the quiet-looking divine who sat on the other
side of her. He gave her his watch to play with; but that didn't keep her still. She wanted
to show it to the little boy in the seat behind us. When the communion service began, she smelt
the wine, and sniffed so loud that every one in the church could hear. When the wine was passed
to our neighbour, he was obliged to stand up to prevent her taking it away from him. I never
was so glad to get out of a place as I was to leave that church! I tried to hurry Helen out-of-doors,
but she kept her arm extended, and every coat-tail she touched must needs turn round and give
an account of the children he left at home, and receive kisses according to their number. Everybody
laughed at her antics, and you would have thought they were leaving a place of amusement rather
than a church. Captain Keller invited some of the ministers to dinner. Helen was irrepressible.
She described in the most animated pantomime, supplemented by spelling, what she was going
to do in Brewster. Finally she got up from the table and went through the motion of picking
seaweed and shells, and splashing in the water, holding up her skirts higher than was proper
under the circumstances. Then she threw herself on the floor and began to swim so energetically
that some of us thought we should be kicked out of our chairs! Her motions are often more expressive
than any words, and she is as graceful as a nymph.

I wonder if the days seem as interminable to you as they do to me. We talk and plan and dream
about nothing but Boston, Boston, Boston. I think Mrs. Keller has definitely decided to go
with us, but she will not stay all summer.

May 15, 1888.

Do you realize that this is the last letter I shall write to you for a long, long time? The
next word that you receive from me will be in a yellow envelope, and it will tell you when
we shall reach Boston. I am too happy to write letters; but I must tell you about our visit
to Cincinnati.

We spent a delightful week with the "doctors." Dr. Keller met us in Memphis. Almost every one
on the train was a physician, and Dr. Keller seemed to know them all. When we reached Cincinnati,
we found the place full of doctors. There were several prominent Boston physicians among them.
We stayed at the Burnet House. Everybody was delighted with Helen. All the learned men marveled
at her intelligence and gaiety. There is something about her that attracts people. I think
it is her joyous interest in everything and everybody.

Wherever she went she was the centre of interest. She was delighted with the orchestra at the
hotel, and whenever the music began she danced round the room, hugging and kissing every one
she happened to touch. Her happiness impressed all; nobody seemed to pity her. One gentleman
said to Dr. Keller, "I have lived long and seen many happy faces; but I have never seen such
a radiant face as this child's before to-night." Another said, "Damn me! but I'd give everything
I own in the world to have that little girl always near me." But I haven't time to write all
the pleasant things people said--they would make a very large book, and the kind things they
did for us would fill another volume. Dr. Keller distributed the extracts from the report that
Mr. Anagnos sent me, and he could have disposed of a thousand if he had had them. Do you remember
Dr. Garcelon, who was Governor of Maine several years ago? He took us to drive one afternoon,
and wanted to give Helen a doll; but she said: "I do not like too many children. Nancy is sick,
and Adeline is cross, and Ida is very bad." We laughed until we cried, she was so serious about
it. "What would you like, then?" asked the Doctor. "Some beautiful gloves to talk with," she
answered. The Doctor was puzzled. He had never heard of "talking-gloves"; but I explained that
she had seen a glove on which the alphabet was printed, and evidently thought they could be
bought. I told him he could buy some gloves if he wished, and that I would have the alphabet
stamped on them.

We lunched with Mr. Thayer (your former pastor) and his wife. He asked me how I had taught
Helen adjectives and the names of abstract ideas like goodness and happiness. These same questions
had been asked me a hundred times by the learned doctors. It seems strange that people should
marvel at what is really so simple. Why, it is as easy to teach the name of an idea, if it
is clearly formulated in the child's mind, as to teach the name of an object. It would indeed
be a herculean task to teach the words if the ideas did not already exist in the child's mind.
If his experiences and observations hadn't led him to the concepts, SMALL, LARGE, GOOD, BAD,
SWEET, SOUR, he would have nothing to attach the word-tags to.

I, little ignorant I, found myself explaining to the wise men of the East and the West such
simple things as these: If you give a child something sweet, and he wags his tongue and smacks
his lips and looks pleased, he has a very definite sensation; and if, every time he has this
experience, he hears the word SWEET, or has it spelled into his hand, he will quickly adopt
this arbitrary sign for his sensation. Likewise, if you put a bit of lemon on his tongue, he
puckers up his lips and tries to spit it out; and after he has had this experience a few times,
if you offer him a lemon, he shuts his mouth and makes faces, clearly indicating that he remembers
the unpleasant sensation. You label it SOUR, and he adopts your symbol. If you had called these
sensations respectively BLACK and WHITE, he would have adopted them as readily; but he would
mean by BLACK and WHITE the same things that he means by SWEET and SOUR. In the same way the
child learns from many experiences to differentiate his feelings, and we name them for him--GOOD,
BAD, GENTLE, ROUGH, HAPPY, SAD. It is not the word, but the capacity to experience the sensation
that counts in his education.

This extract from one of Miss Sullivan's letters is added because it contains interesting casual
opinions stimulated by observing the methods of others.

We visited a little school for the deaf. We were very kindly received, and Helen enjoyed meeting
the children. Two of the teachers knew the manual alphabet, and talked to her without an interpreter.
They were astonished at her command of language. Not a child in the school, they said, had
anything like Helen's facility of expression, and some of them had been under instruction for
two or three years. I was incredulous at first; but after I had watched the children at work
for a couple of hours, I knew that what I had been told was true, and I wasn't surprised. In
one room some little tots were standing before the blackboard, painfully constructing "simple
sentences." A little girl had written: "I have a new dress. It is a pretty dress. My mamma
made my pretty new dress. I love mamma." A curly-headed little boy was writing: "I have a large
ball. I like to kick my large ball." When we entered the room, the children's attention was
riveted on Helen. One of them pulled me by the sleeve and said, "Girl is blind." The teacher
was writing on the blackboard: "The girl's name is Helen. She is deaf. She cannot see. We are
very sorry." I said: "Why do you write those sentences on the board? Wouldn't the children
understand if you talked to them about Helen?" The teacher said something about getting the
correct construction, and continued to construct an exercise out of Helen. I asked her if the
little girl who had written about the new dress was particularly pleased with her dress. "No,"
she replied, "I think not; but children learn better if they write about things that concern
them personally." It seemed all so mechanical and difficult, my heart ached for the poor little
children. Nobody thinks of making a hearing child say, "I have a pretty new dress," at the
beginning. These children were older in years, it is true, than the baby who lisps, "Papa kiss
baby--pretty," and fills out her meaning by pointing to her new dress; but their ability to
understand and use language was no greater.

There was the same difficulty throughout the school. In every classroom I saw sentences on
the blackboard, which evidently had been written to illustrate some grammatical rule, or for
the purpose of using words that had previously been taught in the same, or in some other connection.
This sort of thing may be necessary in some stages of education; but it isn't the way to acquire
language. NOTHING, I THINK, CRUSHES THE CHILD'S IMPULSE TO TALK NATURALLY MORE EFFECTUALLY
THAN THESE BLACKBOARD EXERCISES. The schoolroom is not the place to teach any young child language,
least of all the deaf child. He must be kept as unconscious as the hearing child of the fact
that he is learning words,AND HE SHOULD BE ALLOWED TO PRATTLE ON HIS FINGERS, OR WITH HIS PENCIL,
IN MONOSYLLABLES IF HE CHOOSES, UNTIL SUCH TIME AS HIS GROWING INTELLIGENCE DEMANDS THE SENTENCE.
Language should not be associated in his mind with endless hours in school, with puzzling questions
in grammar, or with anything that is an enemy to joy. But I must not get into the habit of
criticizing other people's methods too severely. I may be as far from the straight road as they.

Miss Sullivan's second report brings the account down to October 1st, 1888.

During the past year Helen has enjoyed excellent health. Her eyes and ears have been examined
by specialists, and it is their opinion that she cannot have the slightest perception of either
light or sound.

It is impossible to tell exactly to what extent the senses of smell and taste aid her in gaining
information respecting physical qualities; but, according to eminent authority, these senses
do exert a great influence on the mental and moral development. Dugald Stewart says, "Some
of the most significant words relating to the human mind are borrowed from the sense of smell;
and the conspicuous place which its sensations occupy in the poetical language of all nations
shows how easily and naturally they ally themselves with the refined operations of the fancy
and the moral emotions of the heart." Helen certainly derives great pleasure from the exercise
of these senses. On entering a greenhouse her countenance becomes radiant, and she will tell
the names of the flowers with which she is familiar, by the sense of smell alone. Her recollections
of the sensations of smell are very vivid. She enjoys in anticipation the scent of a rose or
a violet; and if she is promised a bouquet of these flowers, a peculiarly happy expression
lights her face, indicating that in imagination she perceives their fragrance, and that it
is pleasant to her. It frequently happens that the perfume of a flower or the flavour of a
fruit recalls to her mind some happy event in home life, or a delightful birthday party.

Her sense of touch has sensibly increased during the year, and has gained in acuteness and
delicacy. Indeed, her whole body is so finely organized that she seems to use it as a medium
for bringing herself into closer relations with her fellow creatures. She is able not only
to distinguish with great accuracy the different undulations of the air and the vibrations
of the floor made by various sounds and motions, and to recognize her friends and acquaintances
the instant she touches their hands or clothing, but she also perceives the state of mind of
those around her. It is impossible for any one with whom Helen is conversing to be particularly
happy or sad, and withhold the knowledge of this fact from her.

She observes the slightest emphasis placed upon a word in conversation, and she discovers meaning
in every change of position, and in the varied play of the muscles of the hand. She responds
quickly to the gentle pressure of affection, the pat of approval, the jerk of impatience, the
firm motion of command, and to the many other variations of the almost infinite language of
the feelings; and she has become so expert in interpreting this unconscious language of the
emotions that she is often able to divine our very thoughts.

In my account of Helen last year, I mentioned several instances where she seemed to have called
into use an inexplicable mental faculty; but it now seems to me, after carefully considering
the matter, that this power may be explained by her perfect familiarity with the muscular variations
of those with whom she comes into contact, caused by their emotions. She has been forced to
depend largely upon this muscular sense as a means of ascertaining the mental condition of
those about her. She has learned to connect certain movements of the body with anger, others
with joy, and others still with sorrow. One day, while she was out walking with her mother
and Mr. Anagnos, a boy threw a torpedo, which startled Mrs. Keller. Helen felt the change in
her mother's movements instantly, and asked, "What are we afraid of?" On one occasion, while
walking on the Common with her, I saw a police officer taking a man to the station-house. The
agitation which I felt evidently produced a perceptible physical change; for Helen asked, excitedly,
"What do you see?"

A striking illustration of this strange power was recently shown while her ears were being
examined by the aurists in Cincinnati. Several experiments were tried, to determine positively
whether or not she had any perception of sound. All present were astonished when she appeared
not only to hear a whistle, but also an ordinary tone of voice. She would turn her head, smile,
and act as though she had heard what was said. I was then standing beside her, holding her
hand. Thinking that she was receiving impressions from me, I put her hands upon the table,
and withdrew to the opposite side of the room. The aurists then tried their experiments with
quite different results. Helen remained motionless through them all, not once showing the least
sign that she realized what was going on. At my suggestion, one of the gentlemen took her hand,
and the tests were repeated. This time her countenance changed whenever she was spoken to,
but there was not such a decided lighting up of the features as when I had held her hand.

In the account of Helen last year it was stated that she knew nothing about death, or the burial
of the body; yet on entering a cemetery for the first time in her life, she showed signs of
emotion--her eyes actually filling with tears.

A circumstance equally remarkable occurred last summer; but, before relating it, I will mention
what she now knows with regard to death. Even before I knew her, she had handled a dead chicken,
or bird, or some other small animal. Some time after the visit to the cemetery before referred
to, Helen became interested in a horse that had met with an accident by which one of his legs
had been badly injured, and she went daily with me to visit him. The wounded leg soon became
so much worse that the horse was suspended from a beam. The animal groaned with pain, and Helen,
perceiving his groans, was filled with pity. At last it became necessary to kill him, and,
when Helen next asked to go and see him, I told her that he was DEAD. This was the first time
that she had heard the word. I then explained that he had been shot to relieve him from suffering,
and that he was now BURIED--put into the ground. I am inclined to believe that the idea of
his having been intentionally shot did not make much impression upon her; but I think she did
realize the fact that life was extinct in the horse as in the dead birds she had touched, and
also that he had been put into the ground. Since this occurrence, I have used the word DEAD
whenever occasion required, but with no further explanation of its meaning.

While making a visit at Brewster, Massachusetts, she one day accompanied my friend and me through
the graveyard. She examined one stone after another, and seemed pleased when she could decipher
a name. She smelt of the flowers, but showed no desire to pluck them; and, when I gathered
a few for her, she refused to have them pinned on her dress. When her attention was drawn to
a marble slab inscribed with the name FLORENCE in relief, she dropped upon the ground as though
looking for something, then turned to me with a face full of trouble, and asked, "Were is poor
little Florence?" I evaded the question, but she persisted. Turning to my friend, she asked,
"Did you cry loud for poor little Florence?" Then she added: "I think she is very dead. Who
put her in big hole?" As she continued to ask these distressing questions, we left the cemetery.
Florence was the daughter of my friend, and was a young lady at the time of her death; but
Helen had been told nothing about her, nor did she even know that my friend had had a daughter.
Helen had been given a bed and carriage for her dolls, which she had received and used like
any other gift. On her return to the house after her visit to the cemetery, she ran to the
closet where these toys were kept, and carried them to my friend, saying, "They are poor little
Florence's." This was true, although we were at a loss to understand how she guessed it. A
letter written to her mother in the course of the following week gave an account of her impression
in her own words:

"I put my little babies to sleep in Florence's little bed, and I take them to ride in her carriage.
Poor little Florence is dead. She was very sick and died. Mrs. H. did cry loud for her dear
little child. She got in the ground, and she is very dirty, and she is cold. Florence was very
lovely like Sadie, and Mrs. H. kissed her and hugged her much. Florence is very sad in big
hole. Doctor gave her medicine to make her well, but poor Florence did not get well. When she
was very sick she tossed and moaned in bed. Mrs. H. will go to see her soon."

Notwithstanding the activity of Helen's mind, she is a very natural child. She is fond of fun
and frolic, and loves dearly to be with other children. She is never fretful or irritable,
and I have never seen her impatient with her playmates because they failed to understand her.
She will play for hours together with children who cannot understand a single word she spells,
and it is pathetic to watch the eager gestures and excited pantomime through which her ideas
and emotions find expression. Occasionally some little boy or girl will try to learn the manual
alphabet. Then it is beautiful to observe with what patience, sweetness, and perseverance Helen
endeavours to bring the unruly fingers of her little friend into proper position.

One day, while Helen was wearing a little jacket of which she was very proud, her mother said:
"There is a poor little girl who has no cloak to keep her warm. Will you give her yours?" Helen
began to pull off the jacket, saying, "I must give it to a poor little strange girl."

She is very fond of children younger than herself, and a baby invariably calls forth all the
motherly instincts of her nature. She will handle the baby as tenderly as the most careful
nurse could desire. It is pleasant, too, to note her thoughtfulness for little children, and
her readiness to yield to their whims.

She has a very sociable disposition, and delights in the companionship of those who can follow
the rapid motions of her fingers; but if left alone she will amuse herself for hours at a time
with her knitting or sewing.

She reads a great deal. She bends over her book with a look of intense interest, and as the
forefinger of her left hand runs along the line, she spells out the words with the other hand;
but often her motions are so rapid as to be unintelligible even to those accustomed to reading
the swift and varied movements of her fingers.

Every shade of feeling finds expression through her mobile features. Her behaviour is easy
and natural, and it is charming because of its frankness and evident sincerity. Her heart is
too full of unselfishness and affection to allow a dream of fear or unkindness. She does not
realize that one can be anything but kind-hearted and tender. She is not conscious of any reason
why she should be awkward; consequently, her movements are free and graceful.

She is very fond of all the living things at home, and she will not have them unkindly treated.
When she is riding in the carriage she will not allow the driver to use the whip, because,
she says, "poor horses will cry." One morning she was greatly distressed by finding that one
of the dogs had a block fastened to her collar. We explained that it was done to keep Pearl
from running away. Helen expressed a great deal of sympathy, and at every opportunity during
the day she would find Pearl and carry the burden from place to place.

Her father wrote to her last summer that the birds and bees were eating all his grapes. At
first she was very indignant, and said the little creatures were "very wrong"; but she seemed
pleased when I explained to her that the birds and bees were hungry, and did not know that
it was selfish to eat all the fruit. In a letter written soon afterward she says:

"I am very sorry that bumblebees and hornets and birds and large flies and worms are eating
all of my father's delicious grapes. They like juicy fruit to eat as well as people, and they
are hungry. They are not very wrong to eat too many grapes because they do not know much."

She continues to make rapid progress in the acquisition of language as her experiences increase.
While these were few and elementary, her vocabulary was necessarily limited; but, as she learns
more of the world about her, her judgment grows more accurate, her reasoning powers grow stronger,
more active and subtle, and the language by which she expresses this intellectual activity
gains in fluency and logic.

When traveling she drinks in thought and language. Sitting beside her in the car, I describe
what I see from the window--hills and valleys and the rivers; cotton-fields and gardens in
which strawberries, peaches, pears, melons, and vegetables are growing; herds of cows and horses
feeding in broad meadows, and flocks of sheep on the hillside; the cities with their churches
and schools, hotels and warehouses, and the occupations of the busy people. While I am communicating
these things, Helen manifests intense interest; and, in default of words, she indicates by
gestures and pantomime her desire to learn more of her surroundings and of the great forces
which are operating everywhere. In this way, she learns countless new expressions without any
apparent effort.

From the day when Helen first grasped the idea that all objects have names, and that these
can be communicated by certain movements of the fingers, I have talked to her exactly as I
should have done had she been able to hear, with only this exception, that I have addressed
the words to her fingers instead of to her ears. Naturally, there was at first a strong tendency
on her part to use only the important words in a sentence. She would say: "Helen milk." I got
the milk to show her that she had used the correct word; but I did not let her drink it until
she had, with my assistance, made a complete sentence, as "Give Helen some milk to drink."
In these early lessons I encouraged her in the use of different forms of expression for conveying
the same idea. If she was eating some candy, I said: "Will Helen please give teacher some candy?"
or, "Teacher would like to eat some of Helen's candy," emphasizing the 's. She very soon perceived
that the same idea could be expressed in a great many ways. In two or three months after I
began to teach her she would say: "Helen wants to go to bed," or, "Helen is sleepy, and Helen
will go to bed."

I am constantly asked the question, "How did you teach her the meaning of words expressive
of intellectual and moral qualities?" I believe it was more through association and repetition
than through any explanation of mine. This is especially true of her earlier lessons, when
her knowledge of language was so slight as to make explanation impossible.

I always made it a practice to use the words descriptive of emotions, of intellectual or moral
qualities and actions, in connection with the circumstance which required these words. Soon
after I became her teacher Helen broke her new doll, of which she was very fond. She began
to cry. I said to her, "Teacher is SORRY." After a few repetitions she came to associate the
word with the feeling.

The word HAPPY she learned in the same way; ALSO, RIGHT, WRONG, GOOD, BAD, and other adjectives.
The word LOVE she learned as other children do--by its association with caresses.

One day I asked her a simple question in a combination of numbers, which I was sure she knew.
She answered at random. I checked her, and she stood still, the expression of her face plainly
showing that she was trying to think. I touched her forehead, and spelled "t-h-i-n-k." The
word, thus connected with the act, seemed to impress itself on her mind much as if I had placed
her hand upon an object and then spelled its name. Since that time she has always used the
word THINK.

At a later period I began to use such words as PERHAPS, SUPPOSE, EXPECT, FORGET, REMEMBER.
If Helen asked, "Where is mother now?" I replied: "I do not know. PERHAPS she is with Leila."

She is always anxious to learn the names of people we meet in the horse-cars or elsewhere,
and to know where they are going, and what they will do. Conversations of this kind are frequent:

HELEN. What is little boy's name?

TEACHER. I do not know, for he is a little stranger; but PERHAPS his name is Jack.

HELEN. Where is he going?

TEACHER. He MAY BE going to the Common to have fun with other boys.

HELEN. What will he play?

TEACHER. I SUPPOSE he will play ball.

HELEN. What are boys doing now?

TEACHER. PERHAPS they are expecting Jack, and are waiting for him.

After the words have become familiar to her, she uses them in composition.

September 26, [1888].

"This morning teacher and I sat by the window and we saw a little boy walking on the sidewalk.
It was raining very hard and he had a very large umbrella to keep off the rain-drops.

"I do not know how old he was but THINK he MAY HAVE BEEN six years old. PERHAPS his name was
Joe. I do not know where he was going because he was a little strange boy. But PERHAPS his
mother sent him to a store to buy something for dinner. He had a bag in one hand. I SUPPOSE
he was going to take it to his mother."

In teaching her the use of language, I have not confined myself to any particular theory or
system. I have observed the spontaneous movements of my pupil's mind, and have tried to follow
the suggestions thus given to me.

Owing to the nervousness of Helen's temperament, every precaution has been taken to avoid unduly
exciting her already very active brain. The greater part of the year has been spent in travel
and in visits to different places, and her lessons have been those suggested by the various
scenes and experiences through which she has passed. She continues to manifest the same eagerness
to learn as at first. It is never necessary to urge her to study. Indeed, I am often obliged
to coax her to leave an example or a composition.

While not confining myself to any special system of instruction, I have tried to add to her
general information and intelligence, to enlarge her acquaintance with things around her, and
to bring her into easy and natural relations with people. I have encouraged her to keep a diary,
from which the following selection has been made:

"March 22nd, 1888.

"Mr. Anagnos came to see me Thursday. I was glad to hug and kiss him. He takes care of sixty
little blind girls and seventy little blind boys. I do love them. Little blind girls sent me
a pretty work-basket. I found scissors and thread, and needle-book with many needles in it,
and crochet hook and emery, and thimble, and box, and yard measure and buttons, and pin-cushion.
I will write little blind girls a letter to thank them. I will make pretty clothes for Nancy
and Adeline and Allie. I will go to Cincinnati in May and buy another child. Then I will have
four children. New baby's name is Harry. Mr. Wilson and Mr. Mitchell came to see us Sunday.
Mr. Anagnos went to Louisville Monday to see little blind children. Mother went to Huntsville.
I slept with father, and Mildred slept with teacher. I did learn about calm. It does mean quiet
and happy. Uncle Morrie sent me pretty stories. I read about birds. The quail lays fifteen
or twenty eggs and they are white. She makes her nest on the ground. The blue-bird makes her
nest in a hollow tree and her eggs are blue. The robin's eggs are green. I learned a song about
spring. March, April, May are spring.

Now melts the snow. The warm winds blow The waters flow And robin dear, Is come to show That
Spring is here.

"James killed snipes for breakfast. Little chickens did get very cold and die. I am sorry.
Teacher and I went to ride on Tennessee River, in a boat. I saw Mr. Wilson and James row with
oars. Boat did glide swiftly and I put hand in water and felt it flowing.

"I caught fish with hook and line and pole. We climbed high hill and teacher fell and hurt
her head. I ate very small fish for supper. I did read about cow and calf. The cow loves to
eat grass as well as girl does bread and butter and milk. Little calf does run and leap in
field. She likes to skip and play, for she is happy when the sun is bright and warm. Little
boy did love his calf. And he did say, I will kiss you, little calf, and he put his arms around
calf's neck and kissed her. The calf licked good boy's face with long rough tongue. Calf must
not open mouth much to kiss. I am tired, and teacher does not want me to write more."

In the autumn she went to a circus. While we were standing before his cage the lion roared,
and Helen felt the vibration of the air so distinctly that she was able to reproduce the noise
quite accurately.

I tried to describe to her the appearance of a camel; but, as we were not allowed to touch
the animal, I feared that she did not get a correct idea of its shape. A few days afterward,
however, hearing a commotion in the schoolroom, I went in and found Helen on all fours with
a pillow so strapped upon her back as to leave a hollow in the middle, thus making a hump on
either side. Between these humps she had placed her doll, which she was giving a ride around
the room. I watched her for some time as she moved about, trying to take long strides in order
to carry out the idea I had given her of a camel's gait. When I asked her what she was doing,
she replied, "I am a very funny camel."

During the next two years neither Mr. Anagnos, who was in Europe for a year, nor Miss Sullivan
wrote anything about Helen Keller for publication. In 1892 appeared the Perkins Institution
report for 1891, containing a full account of Helen Keller, including many of her letters,
exercises, and compositions. As some of the letters and the story of the "Frost King" are published
here, there is no need of printing any more samples of Helen Keller's writing during the third,
fourth and fifth years of her education. It was the first two years that counted. From Miss
Sullivan's part of this report I give her most important comments and such biographical matter
as does not appear elsewhere in the present volume.

These extracts Mr. Anagnos took from Miss Sullivan's notes and memoranda.

One day, while her pony and her donkey were standing side by side, Helen went from one to the
other, examining them closely. At last she paused with her hand upon Neddy's head, and addressed
him thus: "Yes, dear Neddy, it is true that you are not as beautiful as Black Beauty. Your
body is not so handsomely formed, and there is no proud look in your face, and your neck does
not arch, Besides, your long ears make you look a little funny. Of course, you cannot help
it, and I love you just as well as if you were the most beautiful creature in the world."

Helen has been greatly interested in the story of "Black Beauty." To show how quickly she perceives
and associates ideas, I will give an instance which all who have read the book will be able
to appreciate.

At this point Helen pressed my hand to stop me. She was sobbing convulsively. "It was poor
Ginger," was all she could say at first. Later, when she was able to talk about it, she said:
"Poor Ginger! The words made a distinct picture in my mind. I could see the way Ginger looked;
all her beauty gone, her beautiful arched neck drooping, all the spirit gone out of her flashing
eyes, all the playfulness gone out of her manner. Oh, how terrible it was! I never knew before
that there could be such a change in anything. There were very few spots of sunshine in poor
Ginger's life, and the sadnesses were so many!" After a moment she added, mournfully, "I fear
some people's lives are just like Ginger's."

This morning Helen was reading for the first time Bryant's poem, "Oh, mother of a mighty race!"
I said to her, "Tell me, when you have read the poem through, who you think the mother is."
When she came to the line, "There's freedom at thy gates, and rest," she exclaimed: "It means
America! The gate, I suppose, is New York City, and Freedom is the great statue of Liberty."
After she had read "The Battlefield," by the same author, I asked her which verse she thought
was the most beautiful.

She is at once transported into the midst of the events of a story. She rejoices when justice
wins, she is sad when virtue lies low, and her face glows with admiration and reverence when
heroic deeds are described. She even enters into the spirit of battle; she says, "I think it
is right for men to fight against wrongs and tyrants."

Here begins Miss Sullivan's connected account in the report of 1891:

During the past three years Helen has continued to make rapid progress in the acquisition of
language. She has one advantage over ordinary children, that nothing from without distracts
her attention from her studies.

But this advantage involves a corresponding disadvantage, the danger of unduly severe mental
application. Her mind is so constituted that she is in a state of feverish unrest while conscious
that there is something that she does not comprehend. I have never known her to be willing
to leave a lesson when she felt that there was anything in it which she did not understand.
If I suggest her leaving a problem in arithmetic until the next day, she answers, "I think
it will make my mind stronger to do it now."

A few evenings ago we were discussing the tariff. Helen wanted me to tell her about it. I said:
"No. You cannot understand it yet." She was quiet for a moment, and then asked, with spirit:
"How do you know that I cannot understand? I have a good mind! You must remember, dear teacher,
that Greek parents were very particular with their children, and they used to let them listen
to wise words, and I think they understood some of them." I have found it best not to tell
her that she cannot understand, because she is almost certain to become excited.

Not long ago I tried to show her how to build a tower with her blocks. As the design was somewhat
complicated, the slightest jar made the structure fall. After a time I became discouraged,
and told her I was afraid she could not make it stand, but that I would build it for her; but
she did not approve of this plan. She was determined to build the tower herself; and for nearly
three hours she worked away, patiently gathering up the blocks whenever they fell, and beginning
over again, until at last her perseverance was crowned with success. The tower stood complete
in every part.

Until October, 1889, I had not deemed it best to confine Helen to any regular and systematic
course of study. For the first two years of her intellectual life she was like a child in a
strange country, where everything was new and perplexing; and, until she gained a knowledge
of language, it was not possible to give her a definite course of instruction.

Moreover, Helen's inquisitiveness was so great during these years that it would have interfered
with her progress in the acquisition of language, if a consideration of the questions which
were constantly occurring to her had been deferred until the completion of a lesson. In all
probability she would have forgotten the question, and a good opportunity to explain something
of real interest to her would have been lost. Therefore it has always seemed best to me to
teach anything whenever my pupil needed to know it, whether it had any bearing on the projected
lesson or not, her inquiries have often led us far away from the subject under immediate consideration.

Since October, 1889, her work has been more regular and has included arithmetic, geography,
zoology, botany and reading.

She has made considerable progress in the study of arithmetic. She readily explains the processes
of multiplication, addition, subtraction, and division, and seems to understand the operations.
She has nearly finished Colburn's mental arithmetic, her last work being in improper fractions.
She has also done some good work in written arithmetic. Her mind works so rapidly, that it
often happens, that when I give her an example she will give me the correct answer before I
have time to write out the question. She pays little attention to the language used in stating
a problem, and seldom stops to ask the meaning of unknown words or phrases until she is ready
to explain her work. Once, when a question puzzled her very much, I suggested that we take
a walk and then perhaps she would understand it. She shook her head decidedly, and said: "My
enemies would think I was running away. I must stay and conquer them now," and she did.

The intellectual improvement which Helen has made in the past two years is shown more clearly
in her greater command of language and in her ability to recognize nicer shades of meaning
in the use of words, than in any other branch of her education.

Not a day passes that she does not learn many new words, nor are these merely the names of
tangible and sensible objects. For instance, she one day wished to know the meaning of the
following words: PHENOMENON, COMPRISE, ENERGY, REPRODUCTION, EXTRAORDINARY, PERPETUAL and MYSTERY.
Some of these words have successive steps of meaning, beginning with what is simple and leading
on to what is abstract. It would have been a hopeless task to make Helen comprehend the more
abstruse meanings of the word MYSTERY, but she understood readily that it signified something
hidden or concealed, and when she makes greater progress she will grasp its more abstruse meaning
as easily as she now does the simpler signification. In investigating any subject there must
occur at the beginning words and phrases which cannot be adequately understood until the pupil
has made considerable advancement; yet I have thought it best to go on giving my pupil simple
definitions, thinking that, although these may be somewhat vague and provisional, they will
come to one another's assistance, and that what is obscure to-day will be plain to-morrow.

I regard my pupil as a free and active being, whose own spontaneous impulses must be my surest
guide. I have always talked to Helen exactly as I would talk to a seeing and hearing child,
and I have insisted that other people should do the same. Whenever any one asks me if she will
understand this or that word I always reply: "Never mind whether she understands each separate
word of a sentence or not. She will guess the meanings of the new words from their connection
with others which are already intelligible to her."

In selecting books for Helen to read, I have never chosen them with reference to her deafness
and blindness. She always reads such books as seeing and hearing children of her age read and
enjoy. Of course, in the beginning it was necessary that the things described should be familiar
and interesting, and the English pure and simple. I remember distinctly when she first attempted
to read a little story. She had learned the printed letters, and for some time had amused herself
by making simple sentences, using slips on which the words were printed in raised letters;
but these sentences had no special relation to one another. One morning we caught a mouse,
and it occurred to me, with a live mouse and a live cat to stimulate her interest, that I might
arrange some sentences in such a way as to form a little story, and thus give her a new conception
of the use of language. So I put the following sentences in the frame, and gave it to Helen:
"The cat is on the box. A mouse is in the box. The cat can see the mouse. The cat would like
to eat the mouse. Do not let the cat get the mouse. The cat can have some milk, and the mouse
can have some cake." The word THE she did not know, and of course she wished it explained.
At that stage of her advancement it would have been impossible to explain its use, and so I
did not try, but moved her finger on to the next word, which she recognized with a bright smile.
Then, as I put her hand upon puss sitting on the box, she made a little exclamation of surprise,
and the rest of the sentence became perfectly clear to her. When she had read the words of
the second sentence, I showed her that there really was a mouse in the box. She then moved
her finger to the next line with an expression of eager interest. "The cat can see the mouse."
Here I made the cat look at the mouse, and let Helen feel the cat. The expression of the little
girl's countenance showed that she was perplexed. I called her attention to the following line,
and, although she knew only the three words, CAT, EAT and MOUSE, she caught the idea. She pulled
the cat away and put her on the floor, at the same time covering the box with the frame. When
she read, "Do not let the cat get the mouse!" she recognized the negation in the sentence,
and seemed to know that the cat must not get the mouse. GET and LET were new words. She was
familiar with the words of the last sentence, and was delighted when allowed to act them out.
By signs she made me understand that she wished another story, and I gave her a book containing
very short stories, written in the most elementary style. She ran her fingers along the lines,
finding the words she knew and guessing at the meaning of others, in a way that would convince
the most conservative of educators that a little deaf child, if given the opportunity, will
learn to read as easily and naturally as ordinary children.

I am convinced that Helen's use of English is due largely to her familiarity with books. She
often reads for two or three hours in succession, and then lays aside her book reluctantly.
One day as we left the library I noticed that she appeared more serious than usual, and I asked
the cause. "I am thinking how much wiser we always are when we leave here than we are when
we come," was her reply.

When asked why she loved books so much, she once replied: "Because they tell me so much that
is interesting about things I cannot see, and they are never tired or troubled like people.
They tell me over and over what I want to know."

While reading from Dickens's "Child's History of England," we came to the sentence, "Still
the spirit of the Britons was not broken." I asked what she thought that meant. She replied,
"I think it means that the brave Britons were not discouraged because the Romans had won so
many battles, and they wished all the more to drive them away." It would not have been possible
for her to define the words in this sentence; and yet she had caught the author's meaning,
and was able to give it in her own words. The next lines are still more idiomatic, "When Suetonius
left the country, they fell upon his troops and retook the island of Anglesea." Here is her
interpretation of the sentence: "It means that when the Roman general had gone away, the Britons
began to fight again; and because the Roman soldiers had no general to tell them what to do,
they were overcome by the Britons and lost the island they had captured."

She prefers intellectual to manual occupations, and is not so fond of fancy work as many of
the blind children are; yet she is eager to join them in whatever they are doing. She has learned
to use the Caligraph typewriter, and writes very correctly, but not rapidly as yet, having
had less than a month's practice.

More than two years ago a cousin taught her the telegraph alphabet by making the dots and dashes
on the back of her hand with his finger. Whenever she meets any one who is familiar with this
system, she is delighted to use it in conversation. I have found it a convenient medium of
communicating with Helen when she is at some distance from me, for it enables me to talk with
her by tapping upon the floor with my foot. She feels the vibrations and understands what is
said to her.

It was hoped that one so peculiarly endowed by nature as Helen, would, if left entirely to
her own resources, throw some light upon such psychological questions as were not exhaustively
investigated by Dr. Howe; but their hopes were not to be realized. In the case of Helen, as
in that of Laura Bridgman, disappointment was inevitable. It is impossible to isolate a child
in the midst of society, so that he shall not be influenced by the beliefs of those with whom
he associates. In Helen's case such an end could not have been attained without depriving her
of that intercourse with others, which is essential to her nature.

It must have been evident to those who watched the rapid unfolding of Helen's faculties that
it would not be possible to keep her inquisitive spirit for any length of time from reaching
out toward the unfathomable mysteries of life. But great care has been taken not to lead her
thoughts prematurely to the consideration of subjects which perplex and confuse all minds.
Children ask profound questions, but they often receive shallow answers, or, to speak more
correctly, they are quieted by such answers.

"Were did I come from?" and "Where shall I go when I die?" were questions Helen asked when
she was eight years old. But the explanations which she was able to understand at that time
did not satisfy, although they forced her to remain silent, until her mind should begin to
put forth its higher powers, and generalize from innumerable impressions and ideas which streamed
in upon it from books and from her daily experiences. Her mind sought for the cause of things.

As her observation of phenomena became more extensive and her vocabulary richer and more subtle,
enabling her to express her own conceptions and ideas clearly, and also to comprehend the thoughts
and experiences of others, she became acquainted with the limit of human creative power, and
perceived that some power, not human, must have created the earth, the sun, and the thousand
natural objects with which she was perfectly familiar.

Finally she one day demanded a name for the power, the existence of which she had already conceived
in her own mind.

Through Charles Kingsley's "Greek Heroes" she had become familiar with the beautiful stories
of the Greek gods and goddesses, and she must have met with the words GOD, HEAVEN, SOUL, and
a great many similar expressions in books.

She never asked the meaning of such words, nor made any comment when they occurred; and until
February, 1889, no one had ever spoken to her of God. At that time, a dear relative who was
also an earnest Christian, tried to tell her about God but, as this lady did not use words
suited to the comprehension of the child, they made little impression upon Helen's mind. When
I subsequently talked with her she said: "I have something very funny to tell you. A. says
God made me and every one out of sand; but it must be a joke. I am made of flesh and blood
and bone, am I not?" Here she examined her arm with evident satisfaction, laughing heartily
to herself. After a moment she went on: "A. says God is everywhere, and that He is all love;
but I do not think a person can be made out of love. Love is only something in our hearts.
Then A. said another very comical thing. She says He (meaning God) is my dear father. It made
me laugh quite hard, for I know my father is Arthur Keller."

I explained to her that she was not yet able to understand what had been told her, and so easily
led her to see that it would be better not to talk about such things until she was wiser.

She had met with the expression Mother Nature in the course of her reading, and for a long
time she was in the habit of ascribing to Mother Nature whatever she felt to be beyond the
power of man to accomplish. She would say, when speaking of the growth of a plant, "Mother
Nature sends the sunshine and the rain to make the trees and the grass and the flowers grow."
The following extract from my notes will show what were her ideas at this time:

Helen seemed a little serious after supper, and Mrs. H. asked her of what she was thinking.
"I am thinking how very busy dear Mother Nature is in the springtime," she replied. When asked
why, she answered: "Because she has so many children to take care of. She is the mother of
everything; the flowers and trees and winds."

"How does Mother Nature take care of the flowers?" I asked.

"She sends the sunshine and rain to make them grow," Helen replied; and after a moment she
added, "I think the sunshine is Nature's warm smile, and the raindrops are her tears."

Later she said: "I do not know if Mother Nature made me. I think my mother got me from heaven,
but I do not know where that place is. I know that daisies and pansies come from seeds which
have been put in the ground; but children do not grow out of the ground, I am sure. I have
never seen a plant-child! But I cannot imagine who made Mother Nature, can you? I love the
beautiful spring, because the budding trees and the blossoming flowers and the tender green
leaves fill my heart with joy. I must go now to see my garden. The daisies and the pansies
will think I have forgotten them."

After May, 1890, it was evident to me that she had reached a point where it was impossible
to keep from her the religious beliefs held by those with whom she was in daily contact. She
almost overwhelmed me with inquiries which were the natural outgrowth of her quickened intelligence.

Early in May she wrote on her tablet the following list of questions:

"I wish to write about things I do not understand. Who made the earth and the seas, and everything?
What makes the sun hot? Where was I before I came to mother? I know that plants grow from seeds
which are in the ground, but I am sure people do not grow that way. I never saw a child-plant.
Little birds and chickens come out of eggs. I have seen them. What was the egg before it was
an egg? Why does not the earth fall, it is so very large and heavy? Tell me something that
Father Nature does. May I read the book called the Bible? Please tell your little pupil many
things when you have much time."

Can any one doubt after reading these questions that the child who was capable of asking them
was also capable of understanding at least their elementary answers? She could not, of course,
have grasped such abstractions as a complete answer to her questions would involve; but one's
whole life is nothing more than a continual advance in the comprehension of the meaning and
scope of such ideas.

Throughout Helen's education I have invariably assumed that she can understand whatever it
is desirable for her to know. Unless there had been in Helen's mind some such intellectual
process as the questions indicate, any explanation of them would have been unintelligible to
her. Without that degree of mental development and activity which perceives the necessity of
superhuman creative power, no explanation of natural phenomena is possible.

After she had succeeded in formulating the ideas which had been slowly growing in her mind,
they seemed suddenly to absorb all her thoughts, and she became impatient to have everything
explained. As we were passing a large globe a short time after she had written the questions,
she stopped before it and asked, "Who made the REAL world?" I replied, "No one knows how the
earth, the sun, and all the worlds which we call stars came to be; but I will tell you how
wise men have tried to account for their origin, and to interpret the great and mysterious
forces of nature."

She knew that the Greeks had many gods to whom they ascribed various powers, because they believed
that the sun, the lightning, and a hundred other natural forces, were independent and superhuman
powers. But after a great deal of thought and study, I told her, men came to believe that all
forces were manifestations of one power, and to that power they gave the name GOD.

She was very still for a few minutes, evidently thinking earnestly. She then asked, "Who made
God?" I was compelled to evade her question, for I could not explain to her the mystery of
a self-existent being. Indeed, many of her eager questions would have puzzled a far wiser person
than I am. Here are some of them: "What did God make the new worlds out of?" "Where did He
get the soil, and the water, and the seeds, and the first animals?" "Where is God?" "Did you
ever see God?" I told her that God was everywhere, and that she must not think of Him as a
person, but as the life, the mind, the soul of everything. She interrupted me: "Everything
does not have life. The rocks have not life, and they cannot think." It is often necessary
to remind her that there are infinitely many things that the wisest people in the world cannot
explain.

No creed or dogma has been taught to Helen, nor has any effort been made to force religious
beliefs upon her attention. Being fully aware of my own incompetence to give her any adequate
explanations of the mysteries which underlie the names of God, soul, and immortality, I have
always felt obliged, by a sense of duty to my pupil, to say as little as possible about spiritual
matters. The Rt. Rev. Phillips Brooks has explained to her in a beautiful way the fatherhood
of God.

She has not as yet been allowed to read the Bible, because I do not see how she can do so at
present without getting a very erroneous conception of the attributes of God. I have already
told her in simple language of the beautiful and helpful life of Jesus, and of His cruel death.
The narrative affected her greatly when first she listened to it.

When she referred to our conversation again, it was to ask, "Why did not Jesus go away, so
that His enemies could not find Him?" She thought the miracles of Jesus very strange. When
told that Jesus walked on the sea to meet His disciples, she said, decidedly, "It does not
mean WALKED, it means SWAM." When told of the instance in which Jesus raised the dead, she
was much perplexed, saying, "I did not know life could come back into the dead body!"

One day she said, sadly: "I am blind and deaf. That is why I cannot see God." I taught her
the word INVISIBLE, and told her we could not see God with our eyes, because He was a spirit;
but that when our hearts were full of goodness and gentleness, then we saw Him because then
we were more like Him.

At another time she asked, "What is a soul?" "No one knows what the soul is like," I replied;
"but we know that it is not the body, and it is that part of us which thinks and loves and
hopes, and which Christian people believe will live on after the body is dead." I then asked
her, "Can you think of your soul as separate from your body?" "Oh, yes!" she replied; "because
last hour I was thinking very hard of Mr. Anagnos, and then my mind,"--then changing the word--"my
soul was in Athens, but my body was here in the study." At this moment another thought seemed
to flash through her mind, and she added, "But Mr. Anagnos did not speak to my soul." I explained
to her that the soul, too, is invisible, or in other words, that it is without apparent form.
"But if I write what my soul thinks," she said, "then it will be visible, and the words will
be its body."

A long time ago Helen said to me, "I would like to live sixteen hundred years." When asked
if she would not like to live ALWAYS in a beautiful country called heaven, her first question
was, "Where is heaven?" I was obliged to confess that I did not know, but suggested that it
might be on one of the stars. A moment after she said, "Will you please go first and tell me
all about it?" and then she added, "Tuscumbia is a very beautiful little town." It was more
than a year before she alluded to the subject again, and when she did return to it, her questions
were numerous and persistent. She asked: "Where is heaven, and what is it like? Why cannot
we know as much about heaven as we do about foreign countries?" I told her in very simple language
that there may be many places called heaven, but that essentially it was a condition--the fulfilment
of the heart's desire, the satisfaction of its wants; and that heaven existed wherever RIGHT
was acknowledged, believed in, and loved.

She shrinks from the thought of death with evident dismay. Recently, on being shown a deer
which had been killed by her brother, she was greatly distressed, and asked sorrowfully, "Why
must everything die, even the fleet-footed deer?" At another time she asked, "Do you not think
we would be very much happier always, if we did not have to die?" I said, "No; because, if
there were no death, our world would soon be so crowded with living creatures that it would
be impossible for any of them to live comfortably." "But," said Helen, quickly, "I think God
could make some more worlds as well as He made this one."

When friends have told her of the great happiness which awaits her in another life, she instantly
asked: "How do you know, if you have not been dead?"

The literal sense in which she sometimes takes common words and idioms shows how necessary
it is that we should make sure that she receives their correct meaning. When told recently
that Hungarians were born musicians, she asked in surprise, "Do they sing when they are born?"
When her friend added that some of the pupils he had seen in Budapest had more than one hundred
tunes in their heads, she said, laughing, "I think their heads must be very noisy." She sees
the ridiculous quickly, and, instead of being seriously troubled by metaphorical language,
she is often amused at her own too literal conception of its meaning.

Having been told that the soul was without form, she was much perplexed at David's words, "He
leadeth my soul." "Has it feet? Can it walk? Is it blind?" she asked; for in her mind the idea
of being led was associated with blindness.

Of all the subjects which perplex and trouble Helen, none distresses her so much as the knowledge
of the existence of evil, and of the suffering which results from it. For a long time it was
possible to keep this knowledge from her; and it will always be comparatively easy to prevent
her from coming in personal contact with vice and wickedness. The fact that sin exists, and
that great misery results from it, dawned gradually upon her mind as she understood more and
more clearly the lives and experiences of those around her. The necessity of laws and penalties
had to be explained to her. She found it very hard to reconcile the presence of evil in the
world with the idea of God which had been presented to her mind.

One day she asked, "Does God take care of us all the time?" She was answered in the affirmative.
"Then why did He let little sister fall this morning, and hurt her head so badly?" Another
time she was asking about the power and goodness of God. She had been told of a terrible storm
at sea, in which several lives were lost, and she asked, "Why did not God save the people if
He can do all things?"

Surrounded by loving friends and the gentlest influences, as Helen had always been, she has,
from the earliest stage of her intellectual enlightenment, willingly done right. She knows
with unerring instinct what is right, and does it joyously. She does not think of one wrong
act as harmless, of another as of no consequence, and of another as not intended. To her pure
soul all evil is equally unlovely.

These passages from the paper Miss Sullivan prepared for the meeting at Chautauqua, in July,
1894, of the American Association to Promote the Teaching of Speech to the Deaf, contain her
latest written account of her methods.

You must not imagine that as soon as Helen grasped the idea that everything had a name she
at once became mistress of the treasury of the English language, or that "her mental faculties
emerged, full armed, from their then living tomb, as Pallas Athene from the head of Zeus,"
as one of her enthusiastic admirers would have us believe. At first, the words, phrases and
sentences which she used in expressing her thoughts were all reproductions of what we had used
in conversation with her, and which her memory had unconsciously retained. And indeed, this
is true of the language of all children. Their language is the memory of the language they
hear spoken in their homes. Countless repetition of the conversation of daily life has impressed
certain words and phrases upon their memories, and when they come to talk themselves, memory
supplies the words they lisp. Likewise, the language of educated people is the memory of the
language of books.

Language grows out of life, out of its needs and experiences. At first my little pupil's mind
was all but vacant. She had been living in a world she could not realize. LANGUAGE and KNOWLEDGE
are indissolubly connected; they are interdependent. Good work in language presupposes and
depends on a real knowledge of things. As soon as Helen grasped the idea that everything had
a name, and that by means of the manual alphabet these names could be transmitted from one
to another, I proceeded to awaken her further interest in the OBJECTS whose names she learned
to spell with such evident joy. I NEVER TAUGHT LANGUAGE FOR THE PURPOSE OF TEACHING IT; but
invariably used language as a medium for the communication of THOUGHT; thus the learning of
language was COINCIDENT with the acquisition of knowledge. In order to use language intelligently,
one must have something to talk ABOUT, and having something to talk about is the result of
having had experiences; no amount of language training will enable our little children to use
language with ease and fluency unless they have something clearly in their minds which they
wish to communicate, or unless we succeed in awakening in them a desire to know what is in
the minds of others.

At first I did not attempt to confine my pupil to any system. I always tried to find out what
interested her most, and made that the starting-point for the new lesson, whether it had any
bearing on the lesson I had planned to teach or not. During the first two years of her intellectual
life, I required Helen to write very little. In order to write one must have something to write
about, and having something to write about requires some mental preparation. The memory must
be stored with ideas and the mind must be enriched with knowledge before writing becomes a
natural and pleasurable effort. Too often, I think, children are required to write before they
have anything to say. Teach them to think and read and talk without self-repression, and they
will write because they cannot help it.

Helen acquired language by practice and habit rather than by study of rules and definitions.
Grammar with its puzzling array of classifications, nomenclatures, and paradigms, was wholly
discarded in her education. She learned language by being brought in contact with the LIVING
language itself; she was made to deal with it in everyday conversation, and in her books, and
to turn it over in a variety of ways until she was able to use it correctly. No doubt I talked
much more with my fingers, and more constantly than I should have done with my mouth; for had
she possessed the use of sight and hearing, she would have been less dependent on me for entertainment
and instruction.

I believe every child has hidden away somewhere in his being noble capacities which may be
quickened and developed if we go about it in the right way; but we shall never properly develop
the higher natures of our little ones while we continue to fill their minds with the so-called
rudiments. Mathematics will never make them loving, nor will the accurate knowledge of the
size and shape of the world help them to appreciate its beauties. Let us lead them during the
first years to find their greatest pleasure in Nature. Let them run in the fields, learn about
animals, and observe real things. Children will educate themselves under right conditions.
They require guidance and sympathy far more than instruction.

I think much of the fluency with which Helen uses language is due to the fact that nearly every
impression which she receives comes through the medium of language. But after due allowance
has been made for Helen's natural aptitude for acquiring language, and for the advantage resulting
from her peculiar environment, I think that we shall still find that the constant companionship
of good books has been of supreme importance in her education. It may be true, as some maintain,
that language cannot express to us much beyond what we have lived and experienced; but I have
always observed that children manifest the greatest delight in the lofty, poetic language which
we are too ready to think beyond their comprehension. "This is all you will understand," said
a teacher to a class of little children, closing the book which she had been reading to them.
"Oh, please read us the rest, even if we won't understand it," they pleaded, delighted with
the rhythm, and the beauty which they felt, even though they could not have explained it. It
is not necessary that a child should understand every word in a book before he can read with
pleasure and profit. Indeed, only such explanations should be given as are really essential.
Helen drank in language which she at first could not understand, and it remained in her mind
until needed, when it fitted itself naturally and easily into her conversation and compositions.
Indeed, it is maintained by some that she reads too much, that a great deal of originative
force is dissipated in the enjoyment of books; that when she might see and say things for herself,
she sees them only through the eyes of others, and says them in their language, but I am convinced
that original composition without the preparation of much reading is an impossibility. Helen
has had the best and purest models in language constantly presented to her, and her conversation
and her writing are unconscious reproductions of what she has read. Reading, I think, should
be kept independent of the regular school exercises. Children should be encouraged to read
for the pure delight of it. The attitude of the child toward his books should be that of unconscious
receptivity. The great works of the imagination ought to become a part of his life, as they
were once of the very substance of the men who wrote them. It is true, the more sensitive and
imaginative the mind is that receives the thought-pictures and images of literature, the more
nicely the finest lines are reproduced. Helen has the vitality of feeling, the freshness and
eagerness of interest, and the spiritual insight of the artistic temperament, and naturally
she has a more active and intense joy in life, simply as life, and in nature, books, and people
than less gifted mortals. Her mind is so filled with the beautiful thoughts and ideals of the
great poets that nothing seems commonplace to her; for her imagination colours all life with
its own rich hues.

There has been much discussion of such of Miss Sullivan's statements and explanations as have
been published before. Too much has been written by people who do not know the problems of
the deaf at first hand, and I do not care to add much to it. Miss Keller's education, however,
is so fundamentally a question of language teaching that it rather includes the problems of
the deaf than limits itself to the deaf alone. Teachers can draw their own conclusions. For
the majority of readers, who will not approach Miss Keller's life from the educator's point
of view, I will summarize a few principal things in Miss Sullivan's methods.

Miss Sullivan has begun where Dr. Howe left off. He invented the instrument, the physical means
of working, but the teaching of language is quite another thing from the mechanical means by
which language may be taught. By experiment, by studying other children, Miss Sullivan came
upon the practical way of teaching language by the natural method. It was for this "natural
method" that Dr. Howe was groping, but he never got to this idea, that a deaf child should
not be taught each word separately by definition, but should be given language by endless repetition
of language which it does not understand. And this is Miss Sullivan's great discovery. All
day long in their play-time and work-time Miss Sullivan kept spelling into her pupil's hand,
and by that Helen Keller absorbed words, just as the child in the cradle absorbs words by hearing
thousands of them before he uses one and by associating the words with the occasion of their
utterance. Thus he learns that words name things and actions and feelings. Now, that is the
first principle in Miss Sullivan's method, one that had practical results, and one which, so
far as I can discover, had never been put in practice in the education of a deaf child, not
to say a deaf-blind child, until Miss Sullivan tried it with Helen Keller. And the principle
had never been formulated clearly until Miss Sullivan wrote her letters.

The second principle in her method (the numerical order is, of course, arbitrary) is never
to talk to the child about things distasteful or wearisome to him. In the first deaf school
Miss Sullivan ever visited, the teacher was busy at the blackboard telling the children by
written words something they did not want to know, while they were crowding round their visitor
with wide-awake curiosity, showing there were a thousand things they did want to know. Why
not, says Miss Sullivan, make a language lesson out of what they were interested in?

Akin to this idea of talking to the child about what interests him, is the principle never
to silence a child who asks questions, but to answer the questions as truly as possible; for,
says Miss Sullivan, the question is the door to the child's mind. Miss Sullivan never needlessly
belittled her ideas or expressions to suit the supposed state of the child's intelligence.
She urged every one to speak to Helen naturally, to give her full sentences and intelligent
ideas, never minding whether Helen understood or not. Thus Miss Sullivan knew what so many
people do not understand, that after the first rudimentary definitions of HAT, CUP, GO, SIT,
the unit of language, as the child learns it, is the sentence, which is also the unit of language
in our adult experience. We do not take in a sentence word by word, but as a whole. It is the
proposition, something predicated about something, that conveys an idea. True, single words
do suggest and express ideas; the child may say simply "mamma" when he means "Where is mamma?"
but he learns the expression of the ideas that relate to mamma--he learns language--by hearing
complete sentences. And though Miss Sullivan did not force grammatical completeness upon the
first finger-lispings of her pupil, yet when she herself repeated Helen's sentence, "mamma
milk," she filled out the construction, completed the child's ellipsis and said, "Mamma will
bring Helen some milk."

Thus Miss Sullivan was working out a natural method, which is so simple, so lacking in artificial
system, that her method seems rather to be a destruction of method. It is doubtful if we should
have heard of Helen Keller if Miss Sullivan had not been where there were other children. By
watching them, she learned to treat her pupil as nearly as possible like an ordinary child.

The manual alphabet was not the only means of presenting words to Helen Keller's fingers. Books
supplemented, perhaps equaled in importance the manual alphabet, as a means of teaching language.
Helen sat poring over them before she could read, not at first for the story, but to find words
she knew; and the definition of new words which is implied in their context, in their position
with reference to words known, added to Helen's vocabulary. Books are the storehouse of language,
and any child, whether deaf or not, if he has his attention attracted in any way to printed
pages, must learn. He learns not by reading what he understands, but by reading and remembering
words he does not understand. And though perhaps few children will have as much precocious
interest in books as did Helen Keller, yet the natural curiosity of every healthy child may
be turned to printed pages, especially if the teacher is clever and plays a word game as Miss
Sullivan did. Helen Keller is supposed to have a special aptitude for languages. It is true
rather that she has a special aptitude for thinking, and her leaning toward language is due
to the fact that language to her meant life. It was not a special subject, like geography or
arithmetic, but her way to outward things.

When at the age of fourteen she had had but a few lessons in German, she read over the words
of "Wilhelm Tell" and managed to get the story. Of grammar she knew nothing and she cared nothing
for it. She got the language from the language itself, and this is, next to hearing the language
spoken, the way for any one to get a foreign tongue, more vital and, in the end, easier than
our schoolroom method of beginning with the grammar. In the same way she played with Latin,
learning not only from the lessons her first Latin teacher gave her, but from going over and
over the words of a text, a game she played by herself.

Mr. John D. Wright, one of her teachers at the Wright-Humason School, says in a letter to me:

