The Senate, upon reading the Emperor's letter, released the Aediles from this pursuit: and
the luxury of the table which, from the battle of Actium till the revolution made by Galba,
flowed, for the space of an hundred years, in all profusion; at last gradually declined. The
causes of this change are worth knowing. Formerly the great families, great in nobility or
abounding in riches, were carried away with a passion for magnificence: for even then it was
allowed to court the good graces of the Roman People, with the favour of kings, and confederate
nations; and to be courted by them: so that each was distinguished by the lustre of popularity
and dependances, in proportion to his affluence, the splendour of his house, and the figure
he made. But after Imperial fury had long raged in the slaughter of the Grandees, and the greatness
of reputation was become the sure mark of destruction; the rest grew wiser: besides, new men
frequently chosen Senators from the municipal towns, from the colonies, and even from the provinces,
brought into the Senate their own domestic parsimony; and though, by fortune or industry, many
of them grew wealthy as they grew old, yet their former frugal spirit continued. But above
all, Vespasian proved the promoter of thrifty living, being himself the pattern of ancient
economy in his person and table: hence the compliance of the public with the manners of the
Prince, and an emulation to practise them; an incitement more prevalent than the terrors of
laws and all their penalties. Or perhaps all human things go a certain round; and, as in the
revolutions of time, there are also vicissitudes in manners: nor indeed have our ancestors
excelled us in all things; our own age has produced many excellences worthy of praise and the
imitation of posterity. Let us still preserve this strife in virtue with our forefathers.

Tiberius having gained the fame of moderation; because, by rejecting the project for reforming
luxury, he had disarmed the growing hopes of the accusers; wrote to the Senate, to desire the
Tribunitial Power for Drusus. Augustus had devised this title, as best suiting the unbounded
height of his views; while avoiding the odious name of King or Dictator, he was yet obliged
to use some particular appellation, under it to control all other powers in the State. He afterwards
assumed Marcus Agrippa into a fellowship in it; and, upon his death, Tiberius; that none might
doubt, who was to be his successor. By this means, he conceived, he should defeat the aspiring
views of others: besides, he confided in the moderation of Tiberius, and in the mightiness
of his own authority. By his example, Tiberius now advanced Drusus to the supreme Magistracy;
whereas, while Germanicus yet lived, he acted without distinction towards both. In the beginning
of his letter he besought the Gods "that by his counsels the Republic might prosper," and then
added a modest testimony concerning the qualities and behaviour of the young Prince, without
aggravation or false embellishments; "that he had a wife and three children, and was of the
same age with himself, when called by the deified Augustus to that office: that Drusus was
not now by him adopted a partner in the toils of government, precipitately; but after eight
years' experience made of his qualifications; after seditions suppressed, wars concluded, the
honour of triumph, and two Consulships."

