The wondering lord and lady, and still more wondering footmen, glared upon the apparition before
them with the most inexplicable amazement, totally at a loss to conceive the cause of such
a novel reception. The terrified pair were, like Othello, "perplexed in the extreme," when
they found themselves, instead of being in the confusion of a fire, deposited beneath the windows
of a magnificent carriage, attended by footmen with white torches, and a full dressed lady
and gentleman inquiring after them, and the meaning of the extraordinary descent. A few minutes
served to explain the mal à propos mistake; the detected pair sought refuge in the hall of
the house, with some such feeling as our first parents experienced when they had tasted the
fatal apple in the garden of Eden. The carriage rolled away with the tittering coachman and
footmen, and the ill-suppressed mirth of their master and mistress, who quickly disseminated
the story throughout the fashionable throng of the party whither they were bent, and which
remained for the rest of the season a standing joke wherever Lord and Lady B. appeared.

Humbled and confused, the unhappy Flybekins could not retrieve the blunder they had committed,
and prudently resigned all their ambitious schemes. So they returned to Devonshire with the
unlucky fire-escapes, sincerely regretting they had ever been tempted to purchase them. But,
although the disaster had got wind, and with various versions had reached even into Devonshire,
they were much consoled by the following narration of it which appeared in the county paper,
in a light most favourable to their interests and reputation, although totally devoid of truth
in almost every particular.

The flaming paragraph ran thus:--"We understand that Mr. and. Mrs. Flybekin of ------ in this
county, while upon a visit to their noble relatives, Lord and Lady B. in London, narrowly escaped
being burnt to death. The devouring element almost destroyed the lower part of the family mansion
in Grosvenor-square, over which the lady and gentleman slept, who had retired early to bed,
and who by the accidental return of Lord and Lady B. from a party, were awakened only just
in time to effect their retreat by means of a fire-escape, fortunately attached to their bed-room
window. We are informed that the fire occurred in consequence of the footmen, appointed to
sit up for their master and mistress, having fallen asleep, leaving a lighted candle in the
room. Mr. and Mrs. Flybekin escaped, with the loss of all their clothes but what they hurried
on in the confusion, and were conveyed to a neighbouring hotel by their noble relatives, where
they received succour for the night."

But unhappily for the Flybekins, the naked truth at length forced its way into Devonshire,
and the true statement of the matter was circulated as above related, and now handed down to
their posterity.

Thus, the best version of their story only placed them, "out of the fire into the frying pan,"
and the unlucky fire-escapes merely saved them from the fear of being badly burnt, in order
that they might all the rest of their lives be well roasted!

There is considerable humour and ingenuity in the following lines, introducing the names of
London booksellers, and their nominal fitness for publishing certain books:--

       *       *       *       *       *

"WHAT'S IN A NAME?"

  Long hail! to Longman, and his longer Co.,
  Pride of our city's Pater Noster Row;
  Thy trade forego in novel trash romantic,
  And treat the world to something more gigantic.

  Let Underwood all essays sell on trees,
  On shrubs, or growth of brushwood if he please;
  All works on brewing leave to Mr. Porter,--
  To Boosey--temperance, for his firm supporter.

  Leave to friend Bull all works on horned cattle,
  While Reid will teach the youthful mind to prattle;
  Give Bohn--anatomy; give Mason sculpture;
  Gardiner's engrafted upon horticulture.

  For valuation-tables on the price of laud,
  Why should we seek, since Byfield is at hand;
  For works on draining either bog or fen,
  In Marsh and Moore we have a choice of men.

  Give Sherwood tales of merry men, who stood--
  Firm to their robbing--around Robin Hood.
  Ogle takes optics,--Miller, works on grain,--
  Ridgway, on railroads,--Surgery with Payne.

  Hail! Pic-a-dilly Hatchard, thy vocation
  Should be prolific, for 'tis incubation;
  Thy pious care brought Egley into note,
  And still on Gosling some folks say you dote.

  But to my plan.--To make the dull ones plod well,
  Books for the use of schools, give Mr. Rodwell;
  And works on painting should you ever lack,
  You need but brush to either Grey or Black.

  From Cowie works on vaccination fetch,
  Pedestrian tours from Walker, or from Stretch;
  And if in search of wonders you should range,
  Where can you seek them better than from Strange.

  The suff'ring climbing boys our pity claim,
  To aid their interest--Suttaby, I'd name;
  And as they're oft of churchyard-terrors slaves,
  Print works to cure them, O! Moon, Boys, and Graves.

  For plans of bridges Arch would be the best;
  For stairs and steps on Banister I'd rest;
  All that relates to church or chapel holy,
  I vote that such be Elder's business solely.

  Sustenance on diet surely ought to treat;
  Joy gives us human happiness complete:
  Tilt will all works on tournament enhance,
  The law--Oh! that of course I leave to Chance,

  Priestly and Chappell may divide theology,
  Hookham and Roach the angling and ichthyology;
  And for Phrenology, what need of rumpus,
  One for his Nob will do--so take it, Bumpus!

       *       *       *       *       *

SPINNING-WHEEL SONG.

BY MISS MITFORD.

  Fair Janet sits beside her wheel;
    No maiden better knew
  To pile upon the circling reel
    An even thread and true;
  But since for Rob she 'gan to pine,
    She twists her flax in vain;
  'Tis now too coarse,--and now too fine,--
    And now--'tis snapt in twain!

  Robin, a bachelor profest,
    At love and lovers laughs,
  And o'er the bowl with reckless jest,
    His pretty spinster quaffs;
  Then, whilst all sobbing, Janet cries
    "She scorns the scornful swain!"
  With angry haste her wheel she plies,
    And--snaps the thread again!

[The Publishers have obligingly enabled us to present the reader with three of the smartest
Cuts. The fun of these Cuts requires neither note nor comment.

Altogether, we may recommend the Offering as a really comic companion.]

THE AMULET

