"When Father Junípero Serra received orders from Galvez for the establishment of the missions
in Alta California, and found that there was none for St. Francis, he ex-claimed: 'And is the
founder of our order, St. Francis, to have no mission?' Thereupon the Visitador replied: 'If
St. Francis desires a mission, let him show us his port,' and the Saint did!" the old face
with its fringe of soft white hair was transformed with religious enthusiasm. "He blinded the
eyes of Portolá and his men so that they did not recognize Monterey and led them on to his
own undiscovered bay. And in spite of the fact that the Mission has been stripped of its lands,
we know that it is still under the special protection of St. Francis, for it was not ten years
ago that the second miracle was performed."

"The second miracle!" we wonderingly repeated.

"Yes, it was at the time of the fire of 1906. The heart of San Francisco was a raging furnace.
The fireproof buildings melted under the tremendous heat and collapsed as if they had been
constructed of lead; the devouring flames swept over the Potrero; they fell upon the brick
building next door and crept close to the walls of this old adobe, when suddenly, as if in
the presence of a sacred relic, the fire crouched and died at its very doors."

We passed the altar and the old man crossed himself, while in our hearts we, too, gave thanks
for the preservation of this monument of the past.

"You must not go until you have seen the cemetery," said our guide as we moved toward the entrance,
and throwing open a door to the right he admitted us to the neglected graveyard. Here and there
a rude cross marked the resting place of an early Indian convert and an almost obliterated
inscription on a broken headstone revealed the name of a Spanish grandee. Shattered columns,
loosened by the hand of time and overthrown in recent years, lay upon the ground, while great
willow and pepper trees spread out protecting arms, as if to shield the silent company from
the inroads of modern enterprise. We picked our way along vine-latticed paths, past graves
over which myrtle and roses wandered in untrimmed beauty, to where a white shaft marked the
resting place of Don Luis Argüello, comandante of the San Francisco Presidio for twenty-three
years and the first Mexican governor of California.

"How splendidly strong he looms out of the past," I said. "His keen insight into the needs
of this western outpost and his determined efforts for the best interests of California will
forever place him in the front rank of its rulers. I wonder if his young wife, Rafaela, is
buried here also?" I drew aside the tangled vines from the near-by headstones. "She was always
a little dearer to me than his second wife, the proud Dona Maria Ortega, perhaps because Rafaela
belonged pre-eminently to San Francisco. Her father, Ensign Sal, was acting comandante of the
Presidio when Vancouver visited the Coast, and Rafaela and Luis Argüello grew up together in
the little adobe settlement."

"Go on," said the skeptic, leaning comfortably against a tree trunk. "This old Mexican governor
seems to have had an interesting romance."

"He wasn't old," I protested, "only forty-six when he died. He was a splendid type of a young
Spanish grandee, tall and lithe of form, with the dark skin and hair of his race. He combined
the freedom born of an out-of-door life with the courtly manners inherited from generations
of Spanish ancestry. To Rafaela Sal, watching the soldiers file out of the mud-walled Presidio,
it seemed that none sat his horse so straight nor so bravely as did Don Luis Argüello. And
at night to the young soldier dozing before the campfire in the forest, the billowy smoke seemed
to shape itself into the soft folds of a lace mantilla from which looked out the smiling face
of a lovely grey-eyed girl, framed in an exquisite mist of copper-colored hair.

"There was no opposition on the part of the parents to the union of these young people. The
elder Argüello loved the sweet Rafaela as if she were his own daughter, and Ensign Sal was
proud to claim the splendid young soldier as a son-in-law. So the betrothal was solemnized,
but since Don Luis was a Spanish officer, the marriage must await the consent of the king,
and forthwith papers were dispatched to the court of Madrid. California was an isolated province
in those days and the packet boat, touching on the shore but twice a year, frequently brought
papers from Spain dated nine months previous, so the older people affirmed that permission
could not be received for two years, while Luis and Rafaela declared that if the king answered
at once--and surely he would recognize the importance of haste--word might be received in eighteen
months.

"After a year and a half had passed the young people could talk of little besides the expected
arrival of the boat with an order from the king. Frequently Luis would climb the hills back
of the Presidio where the wide expanse of the ocean could be seen. At last a sail was discovered
on the horizon and the little settlement was thrown into a turmoil of excitement. Luis was
first at the beach and impatiently watched the ship make its way between the high bluffs that
guarded the entrance to the bay, and nose along the shore until it came to anchor in the little
cove in front of the Presidio. Had the king's permission come? he eagerly asked his father,
who was running through the papers handed him by the captain. But the elder man shook his head,
and Luis turned with lagging steps to tell Rafaela that they must wait another six months.
It seemed a long time to the impatient lovers and yet there was much to make the days pass
quickly at the Presidio. The door of the commodious sala at the home of the comandante always
stood wide open, and almost nightly the feet of the young people which had danced since their
babyhood tripped over the floor of the old adobe building. Picnics were planned to the woods
near the Mission and frequently longer excursions were undertaken; for El Camino Real was not
only, the king's highway to church and military outposts, but also the royal road to pleasure,
and when a wedding or a fiesta was at the end of a journey, no distance was counted too great.
Luis watched his betrothed blossom to fuller beauty, fearful lest someone else might steal
her away before word from the king should arrive.

"A year passed, then another. Packet boats came and went every six months, bringing orders
to the comandante in regard to the administration of the military forces, concerning the treatment
of foreign vessels, and of numerous other matters, but still the king remained silent on the
one subject which, to the minds of the two young people, overshadowed all else. Luis rashly
threatened to run away with his betrothed, while Rafaela, frightened, reminded him that there
was not a priest in California or Mexico who would marry them without the king's order. And
so each time the packet boat entered the harbor their hearts beat with renewed hope and then,
disappointed, they watched it disappear through the Gulf of the Farallones, knowing that months
would pass before another would arrive.

