Poetical Symbolism.--In answer to the question of your correspondent, "STEPHEN BEAUCHAMP" (No.
11. p. 173.), I beg leave to mention a work, which answers in some degree to the description
which he gives; namely, De Symbolica Ægyptiorum Sapientia, and Polyhistor Symbolicus, electarum
Symbolarum et Parabolarum Historicurum Stromata XII. Libris complectens, by Nicolas Caussin,
{220} 8vo. Col. Agr. 1631. There were other editions, I believe, in the same century. The former
work treats of Egyptian symbols; the titles of the twelve books of the latter are: I. Mundus
et Elementa. II. Dii Gentium. III. Hominis Bona. IV. Hominis Mala. V. Ritus Gentium. VI. Aves.
VII. Quadrupedes. VIII. Pisces. IX. Serpentes et Insecta. X. Plantæ. XI. Lapilli. XII. Manufacta.

M.

Oxford.

Fraternitye of Vagabondes.--It does not appear very clearly from the wording of the query at
p. 184. of your 12th number, whether the object of your correspondent, "A. GRIFFINHOOF, JUN.,"
be to ascertain the fact of the reprint in question having been published by Stace, or (having
ascertained that fact) to procure further information as to the publisher. I cannot find any
allusion to the work in the Censura Literuria, (2nd ed. 1815), another instance of the absolute
necessity for exact references, the want of which you would do well in making a ground of exclusion
from your columns.

      ¶ Our Brotherhood of Vacabondes,
      If you would know where dwell:
      In grauesend Barge which syldome standes,
      The talke wyll shew ryght well.

      ¶ Cocke Lorell answereth.

      ¶ Some orders of my knaues also
      In that Barge shall ye fynde:
      for no where shall ye walke I trow,
      But ye shall see their knynde.

    ¶ Imprinted at London by John Awdely, dwellyng in little
    Britayne Streete without Aldersgate. 1575.

    Westminster: Reprinted for Machell Stace, No. 12, Little
    Queen-Street, and R. Triphook, St. James's Street. 1813."

Those who are curious about Mr. Stace may consult Boaden on the Shakespeare Portraits, p. 141.,
Wivell on do., p. 189., and Chaleographimania, p. 16. 32. 95.

J.F.M.

Anonymous Ravennas.--In answer to the query of "W.C.," in No. 8., p. 124., I beg to state that
Gronovius published the Cosmography of Ravennas, with other ancient scraps of geography, annexed
to a neat edition of Pomponius Mela, printed at Leyden, in 1696. Gronovius refers the anonymous
author to the seventh century. His Chorography of Britain forms a part of the work; but it
is printed from one MS., and wretchedly obscure.

J.I.

Dick Shore.--Your correspondent, J.T. HAMMACK, is not quite correct in stating, No. 9., p.
141., that the modern maps present no trace of the locality of "Dick Shoare," mentioned in
the Pepysian Diary. In one of Smith's maps, now before me, of the date of 1806, I find "Duke
Shore Stairs," not far from the great turn of the river southward, opposite to the Isle of
Dogs. Whether the proper spelling to be Dick, Dyke, Dock, Dog, or Duke, I leave to your readers
to determine; but I presume there can be no doubt as to the identity of the place. As the origin
of the name of "Isle of Doggs," according to the Pepysian orthography, is said to be still
underdetermined; may it not be connected with the modern term DOCKS? We are daily familiarised
to worse corruptions. Docks are excavations, large or small, formed by the operation of digging,
in Dutch called Dóken.

J.I.

    [DICK'S SHORE, Fore Street, Limehouse, and DICK'S SHORE
    ALLEY, by Dick's Shore, are both mentioned in London and its
    Environs, vol. ii. p. 233.]

Travelling in England.--Mr. Steven's quotation (No. 11., p. 167.) of Bernard Calvert's rapid
journey, as from an anonymous History of England written in the early part of the reign of
George I., is to be found in more detail in Stow (1032.), and is transcribed in Mr. Croker's
Notes on Bassompière's Embassy, 1819.

Sanuto.--The Ragguagli sulla Vita e sulle Opere di Maria Sanuto, referred to in No. 5., p.
75., were edited by Mr. Rawdon Browne, an English gentleman long resident at Venice, and a
most accomplished Italian scholar. The Diary of Sanuto could hardly be printed, filling, as
it does, some twenty or thirty thick large folio volumes.

R.M.M.

Darnley's Birth-place.--In answer to the inquiry in No. 8., p. 123., as to the birth-place
of Henry Lord Darnley, I believe he was born at Temple-Newsom, near Leeds, the seat of the
Lords Irvine, and now of Meynell Ingram, Esq. A noble room is there shown as the traditional
scene of his birth.

R.M.M.

History of Edward II.--The compilers of the British Museum Catalogue attribute the History
of Edward II. (referred to in No. 4., p. 59.) to Edward Fannant, who also published a Narration
of the Memorable Parliament of 1386, which has been several times printed.

J.R.S.

Lord Chatham's Speech on the American Stamp Act.--When I read the question of your correspondent
{221} (in No. 1. p. 12.) on this subject, I saw at once its importance; for, if my Lord Brougham's
statements were correct, our historians must forthwith re-write a somewhat important chapter
in our history. I felt assured, however, that it was not correct; and the result of a somewhat
tedious search is as I had anticipated. His lordship had made an error in a date and 1764 should
be 1766. The authority, not acknowledged by his lordship, was, no doubt, the Parliamentary
History of 1766 (vol. xvi. p. 96.), where your correspondent will find the statement, which
of course, the date being correctly given, contains nothing that is not consistent with known
facts.

C.

Bone-houses.--The number of skulls at Rothewell (No. 11., p. 171.) is greatly exaggerated,
nor is the tradition of their being gathered from Naseby battle-field more than a modern invention,
the discovery of the bones being within the memory of living persons. Their existence there
is most puzzling. The vault, which is very small, is probably coeval with the church, and seems
to have been made for the very purpose to which it is applied. When this vast building was
erected in the 12th century, may not this vault have been made for the bones disturbed in the
old churchyard by so extensive a foundation?

T.

Queen's Messengers.--In answer to the query of your correspondent "J.U.G.G.," in No. 12., p.
186., I beg to call his attention to the authority quoted in the passage respecting the "Knightes
caligate of Armes," to which he alludes, in Mr. C. Knight's London. He will find that he is
referred to Legh's Accedens of Armory, and Upton, De Studio Militari. The latter wrote in the
early part of the fifteenth century. We are at present, I believe, without earlier information
on such subjects.

Whilst I am writing to you, may I ask you to correct a printer's error in my query in the same
number, where "trepon" appears instead of "jupon"? It may save a query as to what I could mean
by the former.

J.R. PLANCHÉ.

May-day.--In reply to MELANION (No. 12. p. 187.), I would observe that in a collection of Vues
des Villes de Londres, &c., published by Pierre Vander at Leyden (without date, but about the
time of William III., or early in Anne's reign), there is a representation of "La Laitière
de May à Londres," with an enormous head-dress of silver dishes, tankards, and cups, intermixed
with flowers. There is no letter-press explanation; but it is evident that the practice of
the milk-maids, in carrying their mail-pails balanced on their heads, suggested the idea of
carrying this more precious burthen in gala on May-day.

C.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANIES.

