The man who succeeds in any calling in life is almost invariably he who has shown a willingness
to please and to be pleased, who has responded heartily to the advances of others, through
nature and habit, while his rival has sniffed and frowned and snubbed away every helping hand.
"The charming manners of the Duke of Marlborough," it is said, "often changed an enemy to a
friend, and to be denied a favor by him was more pleasing than to receive one from another.
It was these personal graces that made him both rich and great. His address was so exquisitely
fascinating as to dissolve fierce jealousies and animosities, lull suspicion and beguile the
subtlest diplomacy of its arts. His fascinating smile and winning tongue, equally with his
sharp sword, swayed the destinies of empires." The gracious manners of Charles James Fox preserved
him from personal dislike, even when he had gambled away his last shilling, and politically,
was the most unpopular man in England.

MANNERS AND PERSONAL APPEARANCE.

A charming manner not only enhances personal beauty, but even hides ugliness and makes plainness
agreeable. An ill-favored countenance is not necessarily a stumbling-block, at the outset,
to its owner, which cannot be surmounted, for who does not know how much a happy manner often
does to neutralize the ill effects of forbidding looks? The fascination of the demagogue Wilkes's
manner triumphed over both physical and moral deformity, rendering even his ugliness agreeable;
and he boasted to Lord Townsend, one of the handsomest men in Great Britain, that "with half
an hour's start he would get ahead of his lordship in the affections of any woman in the kingdom."
The ugliest Frenchman, perhaps, that ever lived was Mirabeau; yet such was the witchery of
his manner, that the belt of no gay Lothario was hung with a greater number of bleeding female
hearts than this "thunderer of the tribune," whose looks were so hideous that he was compared
to a tiger pitted with the small-pox.

FORTUNES MADE BY PLEASING MANNERS.

Pleasing manners have made the fortunes of men in all professions and in every walk of life--of
lawyers, doctors, clergymen, merchants, clerks and mechanics--and instances of this are so
numerous that they may be recalled by almost any person. The politician who has the advantage
of a courteous, graceful and pleasing manner finds himself an easy winner in the race with
rival candidates, for every voter with whom he speaks becomes instantly his friend. It is an
ornament, worth more as a means of winning favor than the finest clothes and jewels ever worn.
Lord Chesterfield said the art of pleasing is, in truth, the art of rising, of distinguishing
one's self, of making a figure and a fortune in the world. Some years ago a drygoods salesman
in a London shop had acquired such a reputation for courtesy and exhaustless patience, that
it was said to be impossible to provoke from him any expression of irritability, or the smallest
symptom of vexation. A lady of rank learning of his wonderful equanimity, determined to put
it to the test by all the annoyances with which a veteran shop-visitor knows how to tease a
shopman. She failed in her attempt to vex or irritate him, and thereupon set him up in business.
He rose to eminence in trade, and the main spring of his later, as of his earlier career, was
politeness. Hundreds of men, like this salesman, have owed their start in life wholly to their
pleasing address and manners.

CULTIVATION OF GOOD MANNERS.

The cultivation of pleasing, affable manners should be an important part of the education of
every person of whatever calling or station in life. Many people think that if they have only
the substance, the form is of little consequence. But manners are a compound of spirit and
form--spirit acted into form. The first law of good manners, which epitomizes all the rest
is, "Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself." True courtesy is simply the application of this
golden rule to all our social conduct, or, as it has been happily defined, "real kindness,
kindly expressed." It may be met in the hut of the Arab, in the courtyard of the Turk, in the
hovel of the freedman, and the cottage of the Irishman. Even Christian men sometimes fail in
courtesy, deeming it a mark of weakness, or neglecting it from mere thoughtlessness. Yet when
we find this added to the other virtues of the Christian, it will be noted that his influence
for good upon others has been powerfully increased, for it was by this that he obtained access
to the hearts of others. An old English writer said reverently of our Saviour: "He was the
first true gentleman that ever lived." The influence of many good men would be more than doubled
if they could manage to be less stiff and more elastic.

POLITENESS.

Politeness is kindness of manner. This is the outgrowth of kindness of heart, of nobleness,
and of courage. But in some persons we find an abundance of courage, nobleness and kindness
of heart, without kindness of manner, and we can only think and speak of them as not only impolite,
but even rude and gruff. Such a man was Dr. Johnson, whose rudeness secured for him the nickname
of Ursa Major, and of whom Goldsmith truthfully remarked, "No man alive has a more tender heart;
he has nothing of the bear about him but his skin." To acquire that ease and grace of manners
which is possessed by and which distinguishes every well-bred person, one must think of others
rather than of himself, and study to please them even at his own inconvenience. "Do unto others
as you would that others should do unto you"--the golden rule of life--is also the law of politeness,
and such politeness implies self-sacrifice, many struggles and conflicts. It is an art and
tact, rather than an instinct and inspiration. An eminent divine has said: "A noble and attractive
every-day bearing comes of goodness, of sincerity, of refinement. And these are bred in years,
not moments. The principle that rules our life is the sure posture-master. Sir Philip Sidney
was the pattern to all England of a perfect gentleman; but then he was the hero that, on the
field of Zutphen, pushed away the cup of cold water from his own fevered and parched lips,
and held it out to the dying soldier at his side." A Christian by the very conditions of his
creed, and the obligations of his faith is, of necessity, in mind and soul--and therefore in
word and act--a gentleman, but a man may be polite without being a Christian.

CHAPTER III.

Introductions.

An acquaintanceship or friendship usually begins by means of introductions, though it is by
no means uncommon that when it has taken place under other circumstances--without introduction--it
has been a great advantage to both parties; nor can it be said that it is improper to begin
an acquaintance in this way. The formal introduction has been called the highway to the beginning
of friendship, and the "scraped" acquaintance the by-path.

PROMISCUOUS INTRODUCTION.

There is a large class of people who introduce friends and acquaintances to everybody they
meet, whether at home or abroad, while walking or riding out. Such promiscuous introductions
are neither necessary, desirable, nor at all times agreeable.

AN INTRODUCTION A SOCIAL ENDORSEMENT.

It is to be remembered that an introduction is regarded as a social endorsement of the person
introduced, and that, under certain circumstances, it would be wrong to introduce to our friends
casual acquaintances, of whom we know nothing, and who may afterwards prove to be anything
but desirable persons to know. Care should be taken, therefore, in introducing two individuals,
that the introduction be mutually agreeable. Whenever it is practicable, it is best to settle
the point by inquiring beforehand. When this is inexpedient from any cause, a thorough acquaintance
with both parties will warrant the introducer to judge of the point for him or herself.

UNIVERSAL INTRODUCTIONS.

While the habit of universal introductions is a bad one, there are many men in cities and villages
who are not at all particular whom they introduce to each other. As a general rule, a man should
be as careful about the character of the person he introduces to his friends, as he is of him
whose notes he would endorse.

THE INTRODUCTION OF A GENTLEMAN TO A LADY.

A gentleman should not be introduced to a lady, unless her permission has been previously obtained,
and no one should ever be introduced into the house of a friend, except permission is first
granted. Such introductions, however, are frequent, but they are improper, for a person cannot
know that an introduction of this kind will be agreeable. If a person asks you to introduce
him to another, or a gentleman asks to be introduced to a lady, and you find the introduction
would not be agreeable to the other party, you may decline on the grounds that you are not
sufficiently intimate to take that liberty.

When a gentleman is introduced to a lady, both bow slightly, and the gentleman opens conversation.
It is the place of the one who is introduced to make the first remark.

INFORMAL INTRODUCTION.

It is not strictly necessary that acquaintanceship should wait a formal introduction. Persons
meeting at the house of a common friend may consider that fact a sufficient warrant for the
preliminaries of acquaintanceship, if there appears to be a mutual inclination toward such
acquaintanceship. The presence of a person in a friend's house is a sufficient guaranty for
his or her respectability. Gentlemen and ladies may form acquaintances in traveling, on a steamboat,
in a railway car, or a stage-coach, without the formality of an introduction. Such acquaintanceship
should be conducted with a certain amount of reserve, and need not be prolonged beyond the
time of casual meeting. The slightest approach to disrespect or familiarity should be checked
by dignified silence. A young lady, however, is not accorded the same privilege of forming
acquaintances as is a married or elderly lady, and should be careful about doing so.

INTRODUCTIONS AT A BALL.

It is the part of the host and hostess at a ball to introduce their guests, though guests may,
with perfect propriety, introduce each other, or, as already intimated, may converse with one
another without the ceremony of a formal introduction. A gentleman, before introducing his
friends to ladies, should obtain permission of the latter to do so, unless he is perfectly
sure, from his knowledge of the ladies, that the introductions will be agreeable. The ladies
should always grant such permission, unless there is a strong reason for refusing. The French,
and to some extent the English, dispense with introductions at a private ball. The fact that
they have been invited to meet each other is regarded as a guaranty that they are fit to be
mutually acquainted, and is a sufficient warrant for self-introduction. At a public ball partners
must be introduced to each other. Special introducing may be made with propriety by the master
of ceremonies. At public balls it is well for ladies to dance only, or for the most part, with
gentlemen of their own party, or those with whom they have had a previous acquaintance.

THE MANNER OF INTRODUCTION.

The proper form of introduction is to present the gentleman to the lady, the younger to the
older, the inferior in social standing to the superior. In introducing, you bow to the lady
and say, "Miss C., allow me to introduce to you Mr. D. Mr. D., Miss C." It is the duty of Mr.
D. upon bowing to say, "It gives me great pleasure to form your acquaintance, Miss C.," or
a remark of this nature.

If gentlemen are to be introduced to one another, the form is, "Col. Blank, permit me to introduce
to you Mr. Cole. Mr. Cole, Col. Blank." The exact words of an introduction are immaterial,
so long as the proper form and order is preserved.

The word "present" is often used in place of "introduce." While it is customary to repeat the
names of the two parties introduced at the close of the introduction, it is often omitted as
a useless formality. It is of the utmost importance that each name should be spoken distinctly.
If either of the parties does not distinctly hear the name of the other he should say at once,
without hesitation or embarrassment, before making the bow, "I beg your pardon; I did not catch
(or understand) the name," when it may be repeated to him.

If several persons are to be introduced to one individual, mention the name of the single individual
first, and then call the others in succession, bowing slightly as each name is pronounced.

It is the part of true politeness, after introductions, to explain to each person introduced
something of the business or residence of each, as they will assist in opening conversation.
Or, if one party has recently returned from a foreign trip, it is courteous to say so.

CASUAL INTRODUCTIONS.

While it is not necessary to introduce people who chance to meet in your house during a morning
call; yet, if there is no reason for supposing that such an introduction will be objectionable
to either party, it seems better to give it, as it sets both parties at ease in conversation.
Acquaintanceship may or may not follow such an introduction, at the option of the parties.
People who meet at the house of a mutual friend need not recognize each other as acquaintances
if they meet again elsewhere, unless they choose to do so.

INTRODUCING RELATIVES.

In introducing members of your own family, be careful not only to specify the degree of relationship,
but to give the name also. It is awkward to a stranger to be introduced to "My brother Tom,"
or "My sister Carrie." When either the introducer or the introduced is a married lady, the
name of the party introduced can only be guessed at.

BESTOWING OF TITLES.

In introducing a person give him his appropriate title. If he is a clergyman, say "The Rev.
Mr. Clark." If a doctor of divinity, say "The Rev. Dr. Clark." If he is a member of Congress,
call him "Honorable," and specify to which branch of Congress he belongs. If he is governor
of a State, mention what State. If he is a man of any celebrity in the world of art or letters,
it is well to mention the fact something after this manner: "Mr. Fish, the artist, whose pictures
you have frequently seen," or "Mr. Hart, author of 'Our Future State,' which you so greatly
admired."

OBLIGATORY INTRODUCTIONS.

A friend visiting at your house must be introduced to all callers, and courtesy requires the
latter to cultivate the acquaintance while your visitor remains with you. If you are the caller
introduced, you must show the same attention to the friend of your friend that you wish shown
your own friends under the same circumstances. Persons meeting at public places need not introduce
each other to the strangers who may chance to be with them; and, even if the introduction does
take place, the acquaintance need not be continued unless desired.

THE OBLIGATION OF AN INTRODUCTION.

Two persons who have been properly introduced have in future certain claims upon one another's
acquaintance which should be recognized, unless there are sufficient reasons for overlooking
them. Even in that case good manners require the formal bow of recognition upon meeting, which,
of itself, encourages no familiarity. Only a very ill-bred person will meet another with a stare.

THE SALUTATION AFTER INTRODUCTION.

