This obscurity increases when the author of the Annals is in the palace of Tiberius, or in
the Senate amid the deliberations of the Patres Conscripti. From his inadequate mode of speech
he then outstrips the comprehension of the reader; certainly he quite baffles the intelligence
of the very young, his meaning being penetrable only by the keen sagacity of ripe age, for
he enters into the recesses of the heart, and reveals the secret workings of the bad passions,--envy,
hatred, malice and ambition.

As before, we cannot give one of his best gems, because those are hidden in clouds of darkness,
through which nobody can see, only one of them that is shrouded in a light mist through which
the eye can dimly peer. So take the passage where Tiberius leaves it to the Senate to choose
whether Lepidus or Blaesus shall have the government of Africa. Lepidus refuses in very unmistakable
terms, alleging as his reasons the bad state of his health, the tender age of his children,
and the marriageable condition of his daughter: the writer then goes on: "another reason that
Lepidus had, he kept to himself, though it was understood, Blaesus being the uncle of Sejanus,
and that was a very powerful reason with him." "Tum audita amborum verba, intentius excusante
se Lepido, cum valetudinem corporis, aetatem liberum, nubilem filiam obtenderet: intelligereturque
etiam, (quod silebat), avunculum esse Sejani Blaesum, atque eo praevalidum." (An. III. 35).
Of course, that was the most powerful reason for Lepidus refusing the honour, because he knew
that if he stood in the way of the promotion of the uncle, the nephew, in those corrupt times,
would seek a way of wreaking his vengeance upon him. That is easily enough understood, and
certainly did not require any further explanation from the historian. But how about the next
sentence? "Blaesus in his reply to the Senate made, (but not in the same resolute tone as Lepidus),
a show of refusal, and by the assent of the sycophants he was not supported"; and, without
another syllable, the author leaves the subject and passes on to another matter. "Respondit
Blaesus specie recusantis, sed neque eadem adseveratione; et consensu adulantium haud jutus
est." (ibid.) In what was he not supported? And whom were the "sycophants," that is the Senators,
flattering? Blaesus? They had no cause to care whether they pleased or displeased him. Tiberius?
The Emperor was perfectly indifferent as to which of the two men the Senate selected. The author
of the Annals, in order that his full meaning may be brought out, wants the reader to supply,
after the words "a show of refusal," some such as the following:--"the Senators could see from
the sham of Blaesus that the promotion to the office would be highly acceptable to him, and,
as they knew it would please Sejanus, they were desirous of doing what would gratify the minister":
then should come the words: "and by the assent of the sycophants he was not supported," that
is, in his refusal: accordingly the writer leaves his reader to infer that the Senators gave
their universal approval to the appointment of Blaesus as the Proconsul of Africa.

There is no such writing as this in any of the works of Tacitus, who, though curt and concise,
is always remarkable for concinnity and clearness of expression as well as for perspicuity
and consecutiveness of idea. This can be instanced by any passage in the "History": take this
where Galba admonishes Piso whom he has adopted to be careful of himself as the successor to
the empire, and beware of the perils to which he was exposed by his new position:--

"You are at the age which shuns the passions of youth: your past life has been such you have
nothing to regret. You have endured hardship up to this point: prosperity tries our dispositions
with sharper probes; because misfortune is borne, we are spoilt by a brilliant position. With
your determined character you will preserve those most precious boons of the human soul, honourable
principles, an independent spirit and friendly feelings; but others will undermine these by
obsequiousness. Flattery, --fawning,--that worst bane of virtuous inclinations,--will assail
you:--everybody seeks his own advancement. To-day you and I converse together quite disinterestedly;
others all selfishly pay their court to our fortunes in preference to ourselves. Now to counsel
an Emperor what he ought to do is a task of much difficulty: humouring the whims of this or
that Emperor does not cost the slightest trouble." "Ea aetas tua, quae cupiditates adolescentiae
jam effugerit: ea vita, in qua nihil praeteritum excusandum habeas. Fortunam adhuc adversam
tulisti: secundae res acrioribus stimulis animos explorant, quia miseriae tolerantur, felicitate
corrumpimur. Fidem, libertatem, amicitiam, praecipua humani animi bona, tu quidem eadem constantia
retinebis: sed alii per obsequium imminuent. Irrumpet adulatio,--blanditiae, pessimum veri
adfectus venenum,--sua cuique utilitas. Ego ac tu simplicissime inter nos hodie loquimur; ceteri
libentius cum fortuna nostra, quam nobiscum. Nam suadere principi quod oporteat multi laboris:
adsentatio erga principem quemeunque sine adfectu peragitur." (Hist. I. 15).

It will be seen from this literal version of his text, that, notwithstanding his epigrammatic
brevity, Tacitus writes with a precision of thought that leaves nothing to be supplied. It
may be that the author of the Annals found it impossible to write thus: at any rate he resorts
to quite another kind of composition in order to be on a level with his prototype by making
his book hard reading, for he gives his reader as much difficulty in following him by leaving
gaps in thought, as Tacitus gives his reader by uncommon terseness. The difference of exertion
to which the mind is subjected in understanding the two is pretty much like the difference
of exerting the legs which a traveller experiences when moving about a most mountainous region,
between toiling painfully up steep but smooth acclivities and taking violent leaps over a succession
of ravines.

III. The Rev. Thomas Hunter, in the opening portion of his work entitled "Observations on Tacitus,"
(to which I have so often referred, and to which I am so much indebted),--misled by giving
his assent, as a matter of necessity, to the universal belief that Tacitus and Bracciolini
were one,--errs in ascribing to them both a perfect similarity in ambition of pomp and ornament
to display learning; Bracciolini bears little or no resemblance in this respect to Tacitus,
as may be seen by comparing, or rather contrasting them in any one thing,--say in their digressions.
Whenever Tacitus digresses, it is always appropriately,--with taste and judgment. What, for
instance, can be more fitting than that he should fall into a little digression about the Temple
of Venus in Cyprus, when Titus visits that island (Hist. II. 2 & 3), because Titus had an amorous
disposition? or, when he is about to relate such an important event and turning point in the
history of the Jews as the destruction of Jerusalem, that he should recount the whole origin
of that most mysterious and romantic people (Hist. V. 2)? or, when the Capitol was burnt, give
a history of it (ib. III. 71)? On these and other occasions, his digressions are seemly, and
afford satisfaction as appertaining closely to the subject.

It is not so with the author of the Annals; he cannot speak about a law, but straightway must
tell his reader about laws in general, as he does when speaking of the Lex Poppaea, of which
had Tacitus spoken, he would have merely mentioned its qualification, then passed on; or, if
digressing, confined his statement to the other laws of a similar kind which had been enacted
by his countrymen; but the author of the Annals starts off to talk about laws of all kinds
that the whole world had witnessed from the Flood of Deucalion to the time of which he is writing,--consequently
he talks about the legislation of Minos, Lycurgus and Solon, the law-making of Numa and Tullus
Hostilius, Ancus Martius and Servius Tullius, down to what was done in that way by the Emperor
Augustus Caesar (III. 26); and when the cities of Asia contend for the honour of building a
temple, away he rambles into a discourse about things in general, the wars of Perseus and Aristonicus;
the great antiquity of Troy, proclaimed to be the mother of Rome; the love of home of the Lydians;
the first names and settlements of the Tyrrhenians; the Sardinians and Etrurians being of the
same descent; the divine origin of Tantalus and Theseus; and the Amazons being the founders
of some of the cities in Asia (IV. 55 and 56).

This, it must be admitted, is not in the style of Tacitus; it is, however, exactly in the style
of Bracciolini--in proof of which I need only point to the historic details which abound in
the Dialogue on the Unhappiness of Princes;--the introduction of the particulars into which
he enters when drawing up a comparison for a young friend of Ferrara between Julius Caesar
and Scipio Africanus, on the question submitted to him, "which was the greater man" (Op. 357
seq.); and when in the Discourse on Nobility he refers to the statues that adorned the garden
of a villa, he enters into remarks on the passion possessed by the ancient Romans of ornamenting
their homes with the images of their ancestors (Op. 64-83).

IV. Bodinus, in his "Method to an Easy Knowledge of History," first published in 1566, seems
to be very much struck at two statements in the Fourth Book of the Annals; in the 33rd chapter
the words occur: "we link together cruel orders, continual prosecutions, treacherous alliances,
the destruction of the innocent, and trials terminating in similar issues": in the chapter
preceding the writer says that he does not narrate "wars, sieges of cities, routings of armies
and struggles of politicians and plebeians": Bodinus observes, Tacitus "carefully describes
all the wars that occurred in his time; they were conflicts in which he was usually engaged
or acted as commander, nor was there after the battle of Actium a single historian who treated
so copiously of military and civil affairs":--"Libro quarto profitetur se 'nec bella, nec urbium
expugnationes, nec fusos exercitus, nec certamina plebis et optimatium' narrare ... et paulo
post: 'nos saeva jussa, continuas accusationes, fallaces amicitias, perniciem innocentium,
et easdem exitu causas conjungimus', quanquam omnia bella, quae illis temporibus contigerunt,
et quibus fere interfuit aut praefuit, studiose describit: nec post Actiacam victoriam ullus
est historicus qui militarem aut forensem rationem copiosius tractavit" (Jo. Bodinus. Methodus
ad facilem Historiarum Cognitionem. p. 66. Geneva Ed. 1610).

Can anything be stronger than these simple words of the French Doctor of Civil Law of the sixteenth
century towards drawing further the attention of the reader to the truth of the theory maintained
in this book? It is not possible that, though Bracciolini thus, as we see, forgot himself for
a moment as the imitator of another, Tacitus could have made a slip of this kind. He is always
describing battles; he takes a special delight in doing so; it is a species of description
in which he particularly excelled, even as it is a species of description in which Bracciolini
just as particularly showed weakness; Tacitus could do nothing better, because, as Bodinus
says, he was actually engaged in the battles, or else acted in them as a commander. Nor is
it true of his History, as it is of the Annals, that it is one perpetual tissue of prosecutions
and trials that end in the conviction of innocent persons, treacherous alliances and tyrannical
decrees; nor that it avoids all narration of the contentions between the people and the nobles.

V. We seem to be looking at a picture of the middle ages or the Renaissance and not of the
first or second century of the Christian aera, when we read the story of Caius Silanus, the
Proconsul of Asia, who, accused of malversation and peculation, is first banished to the island
of Gyarus, but when the Prince pleads for him, and he is backed by the intercession of a Vestal
Virgin of sanctity,--corresponding to a Christian nun or abbess of exemplary piety,--Silanus
is removed to the more bearable place of exile, the island of Cythaera (III. 66-9).

Just as we find in the first part of the Annals this picture marking the mediaeval period,
we find in the last part a sentiment that strongly denotes the time of the Renaissance, because
it is morally wrong: with the greatest coolness Bracciolini states in the eleventh book of
the Annals that "employment of stratagem against a deserter and violator of his oath reflects
no dishonour on the Roman character": "nec irritae aut degeneres insidiae fuere adversus transfugam
et violatorem fidei" (XI. 19): the sentiment would never have proceeded from Tacitus nor any
other high-minded Roman of antiquity; but it is strictly in accord with the views and feelings
of the Renaissance, or fifteenth and beginning of the sixteenth century: in reading the best
writers of that period we every now and then come across maxims which a strict morality condemns:
Machiavelli, who better reflects the spirit of his age and Italy than anybody else, except
the author of the Annals, occasionally shocks us by such utterances in his Treatise on Livy,
as, "it is permissible to deceive for the good of the State, provided that advantage be gained
by it"; it is a proper thing "to violate one's word for the good of one's country"; "cruelty
which tends to a beneficial end is not blamable and that which profits is praiseworthy"; or
in his work entitled "The Prince",--"it is quite enough for a Prince to be virtuous in show,
and not in fact"; he should "dissemble to reign well," and "the justice of war is in its utility."

VI. Bracciolini, who was inventing history as well as forging a production, did not deem it
necessary to be actuated at all times in his representations by the love of truth: in putting
forth supposititious matters as matters of fact, he advanced his own opinions and conjectures
as the conjectures and opinions of the persons who figured in his narrative: to give an example:
--"Tiberius and Augusta abstained from appearing in public" on the day when the remains of
Germanicus were borne to the tomb of Augustus: that may be history; but we are certain that
it is not history when we are told what their supposition was about going abroad: "I do not
know," says the writer, "whether they supposed that a public expression of sorrow on their
part would be derogatory to their imperial dignity, but I rather suspect it was fear that their
hypocrisy would be detected when their looks were scrutinised by the eyes of all": "Tiberius
atque Augusta publico abstinuere; inferius majestate sua rati, si palam lamentarentur, an ne,
omnium oculis vultum eorum scrutantibus, falsi intelligerentur" (Ann. III. 4).

We have another proof here that the whole Annals proceeded from the same hand; this sort of
thing goes on as well in the last, as in the first part of that work; in the fourteenth chapter
(10), the writer undertakes to describe the state of Nero's punishment after (what may or may
not be history) the murder of his mother: we are told, as if Bracciolini possessed the magic
of peering into the inmost recesses of the soul, that it was only "at length after Nero had
completed the monstrous deed that he became conscious of its enormity": "perfecto demum scelere
magnitudo ejus intellecta est". We then follow the Emperor into the privacy of his locked chamber;
in the dead of night, we see what he does, when he is hidden from the eyes of all: everybody
can pretty well guess (but only guess not positively know) how it fared with him; an evil conscience
like a hidden torture wracks the criminal as the vulture fed on the liver of the rock-tied
Titan;--the Furies come, causing the guilty to pass sleepless nights, for the Furies are the
Demons sent to torture the impious: accordingly Bracciolini thus continues the description:--"during
the remainder of the night, he would at one time remain in silence with his eyes fixed immovably,
very often springing up out of terror, and with a distracted soul watch for the dawn of day,
as if it were to bring death to him":--"reliquo noctis, modo, per silentium defixus soepius
pavore exurgens et mentis inops lucem opperiebatur, tanquam exitium allaturam" (L. c.).

Though we all know that investigations of this kind must necessarily be attended with uncertainty,
yet in watching Bracciolini's bold proceedings in unfolding the mazes of the human heart by
the passions of famous men, we assent readily to his delineations, because the feelings he
represents, if not true, seem to be true on account of their being natural and obvious.

This kind of guesswork, nowhere to be found in the pages of Tacitus, has been considered in
these days a great improvement in historical composition,--by none more so than by Lord Macaulay,
who made Bracciolini, (supposing him to be Tacitus), the object of his adoration. Modern historians
reject what Thucydides, Xenophon, Herodotus, Livy, Sallust, Tacitus, and other ancient writers
of history, Greek and Roman, did,--ascribing probable words and phrases to eminent persons
on grand occasions, as violations of truth and daring assumptions;--nevertheless, they imitate
the practice set by Bracciolini of knowing the motives that influenced illustrious characters.

The cause of a memorable matter of fact,--Luther casting off his allegiance to the Pope,--remains
hidden in impenetrable mystery: notwithstanding that, Protestant historians as confidently
maintain it was the love of truth, as Catholic biographers boldly assert it was the passion
of resentment.

We have the same rash conjectures as to James the Second: after he abdicated the throne of
England, he lived to the end of his days in quietness and seclusion, never making an attempt
to regain the goodwill of his people, nor breathing a wish for a reconciliation: though that
monarch kept his feelings to himself, Lord Macaulay in his History of England (IV. When such
intimate acquaintance is shown with the senti- ments of the fallen king, one wonders who knew
better his intentions and inclinations, Lord Macaulay, his historian, or Peters, his father
confessor. In writing thus Lord Macaulay merely imitated the example set by Bracciolini, who,
on almost every occasion, pretends to know motives, detect inclinations, explore the causes
of events as well as look into the soul, reveal the passions and determine the judgments of
powerful men. It is very pretty, but it is not history; and any one who considers how beyond
his power it is to ascertain the principles which regulate his own conduct or the behaviour
of those with whom he is in familiar and daily intercourse,--whose peculiar habit, too, he
knows well,--must see that the task is not only difficult, but superhuman,--comprised in one
plain and simple word --impossible.

VII. A thousand authors may be read, and in vain contradictions looked for in any of them.
When, therefore, a writer is found contradicting himself, it is a peculiarity to be noted as
uncommonly striking; one contradiction being found, several may be looked for. Bracciolini
is one of these writers; his contradictions, too, are most remarkable: they are to be found
just as well in his acknowledged productions as in both parts of the Annals. Many instances
might be given; the following may suffice:--

In the fourth book of the Annals, Tiberius is represented so full of hatred that a man who
had been for a long time in exile does not escape his memory, as occurs with Serenus--"non
occultante Tiberio vetus odium adversus exulem Serenum" (IV. 29). In the sixth book, however,
Tiberius, though still actuated by hatred, is so forgetful that Rubrius Fabatus remains unharmed
through oblivion:--"mansit tamen incolumis oblivione magis quam elementia" (VI. 14). What then
is the characteristic of Tiberius? Forgetfulness or remembrance in his hatreds?

So in his acknowledged works, Bracciolini speaks in one of his letters, as we have seen, of
not having such a very high opinion of the Papacy as the world believed: "Ego minus existimo
Pontificatum quam credunt" (Ep. I. 17). But in another of his works, "De Infelicitate Principum,"
(Op. p. 392), he expresses his belief that "all Princes were in the enjoyment of a large amount
of happiness, more particularly the Pope, who was considered the greatest of men, and yet gained
his position without any anxiety or any labour, any pains or any peril." "Nam cum omnes principes
magna existimem felicitate frui, tum vero maxime Pontifices, cum nulla cura, nullo labore,
nulla opera, nullo periculo eum statum adipiscuntur, qui habetur maximus apud mortales." What
are we then to suppose? that Bracciolini had formed a very lofty, or a very indifferent estimate
of the Papacy?

In both parts of the Annals, he displays the same spirit of contradiction; first he praises,
then condemns the same things; in the last part he defends Popular Revels (XIV. 20) and objects
to them immediately afterwards (ibid); so in the first part he lauds luxury in the second book
(33) and censures it in the third (53).

We find the same contradiction with respect to Augustus and deification; in the first book
of the Annals we are told that if a man has temples reared to him and is worshipped in the
likeness of a god, he commits a grievous wrong, because he deprives divine beings of all their
honours: this it is stated was done by Augustus:--"Nihil Deorum honoribus relictum cum se templis
et effigie numinum coli vellet" (An. I. 10). After this we should be mightily surprised, did
we not know of the humour of the writer with whom we are dealing, to find it asserted in the
fourth book, when the people of Lusitania and Boetica (now Portugal, Andalusia and Granada),
offer to erect a temple to Tiberius, and he refuses (IV. 37, 38), that that Emperor "showed
degeneracy of spirit, because men of the highest virtue have ever sought the greatest honours:
thus Hercules and Bacchus were added to the number of the Gods among the Greeks, and Romulus
among the Romans: accordingly that Augustus who hoped for deification chose the nobler part,
for when we scorn fame we scorn the virtues:--"quidam, ut degeneris animi, interpretabantur:
optumos quippe mortalium altissima cupere. Sic Herculem et Liberum apud Graecos; Quirinum apud
nos, deum numero, additos. Melius Augustum, qui speraverit ... contemtu famae, contemni virtutes"
(IV. 38).

VIII. A few words, in conclusion, may be said about the oldest manuscript containing the first
six, and, consequently, all the books of the Annals. This, which, it has been stated, is the
First Florence MS., I take to be the identical one that came out of the Abbey of Corvey through
the hands of Arcimboldi, because, like its mendacious brother, the Second Florence, it bears
upon it the unmistakable stamp of an impudent forgery. Just as the Second Florence pretends
to be of the fourth century, if not earlier, from having the attestation of Salustius the Philosopher,
so the First Florence professes to be as old as, at the very least, the twelfth century, from
being written in characters, which, Taurellus says (Praef. ad Pand. Floren.), are the same
as those in the Florentine MS. of the Pandects of Justinian. Now, the Florentine Pandects,
which were found at Amalfi, were plundered from that town and taken to Pisa in 1137 by Lotharius
Saxe after his successful war with Pope Innocent II., though the two costly volumes were not
first deposited in the Grand Duke's Library at Florence until 1406.

Danesius, Bishop of Lavaur (in Languedoc), also bears testimony to the great antiquity of the
First Florence MS. But this was nineteen years after the first publication of all the Annals
in Rome, it being in 1534 that Danesius, examining it with other ancient works, pronounced
upon its very old age.

Ernesti, in his preface to the works of Tacitus, quotes a passage from a letter of Graevius
to his friend Heinsius where the great Hellenist is of opinion that the MS. bore the marks
of being copied from a supposititious and half learned original; "exemplar, unde illud fluxit,
mendosum et ab semidocto interpolatum" (Tom. IV. Coll. Burm. p. 496). But suppose that the
manuscript is no copy, but, as I maintain, an original, then the opinion of Graevius becomes
extremely valuable in this inquiry, because it actually corroborates what I have said about
the manuscript,--that it was transcribed by an ignorant monk, and that it is an audacious forgery.

We have, then, no evidence whatsoever that can be relied upon of the great antiquity of this
manuscript: on the contrary what we do know about it as a fact is utterly subversive of such
an assumption: this copy in the Mediceo-Laurentian Library in Florence of all the Annals of
Tacitus cannot be traced further back than to the possession of a man who flourished in the
days of Leo X. and the Emperor Maximilian I.,--Johannes Jocundus of Verona; so that it turns
out, on careful investigation that all positive knowledge of this MS. stops at the commencement
of the sixteenth century, exactly as all positive knowledge of the other Florentine MS. stops
at the commencement of the fifteenth century.

IX. I have now done; and think that I have said quite enough for the spuriousness of the Annals
never to be hereafter argued as a moot point, but accepted as an established fact. I need not
go into further consideration; because further consideration cannot give more weight to what
has been put forward. I, therefore, pause, assured that with only these few facts and observations
placed before him, the reader has come to the same conclusion as myself, that, strange as it
may be, yet, nevertheless, there is truth in the theory now started for the first time, I dare
say, to the amazement of the reader, as to the amazement of everybody, that Tacitus is, and
has been, for century after century, wrongly accredited with the authorship of the Annals.
It is to dispel all cavil about this, that I have examined the History and the Annals from
every imaginable point of view, so as to enable the reader to see the two works as clearly
as they can be seen--not that the reader has seen them as clearly as objects are seen under
the open sky by the blaze of the noontide sun; still I hope that he has seen them, as objects
in broad day are seen,--where there must he some shadows in corners,--in a room, when all the
blinds are drawn up and all the windows are thrown open.

T H E  E N D.

[ENDNOTES]

[Endnote 013] Here we find the most learned Father of the Church using "volumen" in an unusual
acceptation, not as a whole work, nor a part of a literary composition rolled into a scroll
among the ancients, or separately bound among ourselves, but a division of a subject in the
same "volume," just as Cornelius Nepos, once, and once only,--in his Life of Atticus (16),--speaks
of the sixteen "books" of Letters which Cicero addressed to Atticus: "Sexdecim volumina Epistolarum
... ad Atticum missarum"; yet three or four "books" must have formed a "volumen," when we find
Ovid, in his "Tristia" (III. 14, 19) speaking of the "five volumes" that contained his Metamorphoses:--

    "Sunt quoque mutatae per quinque volumina formae;"

as the Metamorphoses were divided into fifteen books, three then formed a "volumen."--I cannot
avoid calling attention to the curiously incorrect phrase, "voluminibus exaravit." An ancient,
speaking of the "volumen," or scroll, would have used "scribere," --"exarare," possibly, when
speaking of the "codicillus," or little wooden table made of wax, which he sent as a note or
billet-doux to a friend or sweetheart, the figurative verb being applicable to the stylus "ploughing"
letters "out" of the wax. The passage, from this blunder alone, seems to be an interpolation,
where the forger ridiculously overshoots his mark: he out-Jeromes Jerome; for he makes the
saint write bad Latin from a motive that never led St. Jerome astray,--a desire to be poetic.
It is strange, too, for the passage to have come from the most learned of the Latin fathers
with the loose expression, "post Augustum," to denote a history that began with Galba; and
when Tacitus, who confined his attention to affairs of state (to the utter disregard of biographical
details of the emperors), is spoken of as writing "Vitas Caesarum." However, the man who made
the interpolation knew all that he wanted to accomplish, and would have been eminently successful
in his crafty and knavish design, had he only known Latin well enough to have made St. Jerome
write it as a bishop would have written it in the fourth century. (Numbers xx. 9-11). This
incident, opposed to the laws of nature, Tacitus shews happened according to the constituted
course of things, and makes the miracle ridiculous by introducing asses as the principal performers:
he has been speaking of the Jews, ignorant of all the parts through which they were to pass,
setting forth on a journey for which they had made no provision; "but nothing distressed them
so much," he continues, "as want of water; and they were lying all over the plains, not far
from the point of death, when a herd of wild asses quitted the pasture for a rock overgrown
with copse and brushwood: Moses followed, and found, as he had conjectured from the spot being
covered with verdure, abundant springs of water." "Omnium ignari, fortuitum iter incipiunt:
sed nihil aeque quam inopia aquae fatigabat: jamque haud procul exitio, totis campis procubuerant,
cum grex asinorum agrestium e pastu in rupem nemore opacam concessit: secutus Moses, conjectura
herbidi soli, largas aquarum venas aperit." (Hist. v. 3). Tacitus is infinitely more offensive,
and, certainly, most untruthful, when he says that the Jews "kept for worship in their holy
of holies the image of an ass, as the animal by whose guidance they had slaked their thirst
and brought their wanderings to a happy sequel": "effigiem animalis, quo monstrante errorem
sitimque depulerant, penetrali sacravere." (Hist. v. 4)

[Endnote 074] This, I take it, is what the author of the Annals means. "Tibicen" was, of course,
not a violin, but species of pipe among the ancients; the Egyptians were not famous for their
performances upon this instrument, if they were acquainted with the "tibicen" at all. The question
then arises,--Was the author of the Annals cognizant of the existence of such people as "Gipsies"?
The last part of the Annals (where, it will be seen, this passage occurs,) was forged after
the first quarter of the fifteenth century; was this nomad horde in Europe at that time? If
there be one established fact it is that the "Gipsies" (then called "Aegyptiani") came into
Europe at the commencement of the fifteenth century in the reign of the Emperor Sigismund.
Martin Zeiller in his "Topographia Hassiae" says they were first caught sight of in Hesse in
1414, which is four years earlier than all historians fix the date of their advent into Germany,
from following Jacob Thomasius, who makes that statement in the 16th and 17th sections of his
"Disputatio de Cingaris." Two years after their arrival in Germany, (that is 1416, according
to Zeiller, but 1420, according to Thomasius and the historians,) this curious people, separating
into several bands, found their way into Italy. Here they may have attracted the attention
of the author of the Annals, as well as in his frequent visits to Germany and the principality
of Hesse. In fact, they attracted universal attention by their sporadic habitations, their
nomadic lives, their wandering and dwelling, like the Thespians of old, in waggons, their shabby
and ragged clothes, yet the heaps of gold and silver they had with them, their trains of horses,
mules and asses, their love of music (to this day they are great experts with the violin),
their favourite practice of fortune-telling, magic, palmistry, and those arts of sorcery, of
which we hear so much in the Annals, the author of which must have been further impressed with
their giving out that, though heathens coming from Lower Egypt, they wanted to embrace the
Christian faith. This vagabond people had at their head a "king," whom the chroniclers style
a "noble Count,"--as Martin Cursius in his Annals of Swabia (sub A.D. 1453): "obiit nobilis
Comes Petrus de Minori Egypto, in die Philippi et Jacobi Apostolorum." "Peter" was preceded
on the gipsy throne by "Panuel," who, styled also "nobilis Comes" by the chroniclers, died
in 1445, his immediate predecessor being "Michael," under whom the immigration into Europe
was effected of these "Egyptian" wanderers numbering 14,000 men, women and children.

[Endnote 081] I am indebted for nearly the whole of this to Niebuhr's Essay in the "Rheinisches
Museum" on "The Difference between Annals and History." But in saying that Aulus Gellius attempting
to solve the same problem showed "more learning than thought," Niebuhr did not know how easy
it was to retaliate upon him by saying that in his own investigation he exhibited "more thought
than learning" from supposing that a writer in the time of Marcus Antoninus might have had
his inquiry suggested to him by Tacitus's "History" and "Annals," when, down to the fifteenth
century, as we have shown, one common title, "Imperial History" ("Augusta Historia,") covered
the historical productions of Tacitus, now known as "Annales" and "Historiae."

[Endnote 083] No overstatement but a fact. There are only 14 paragraphs in the Life and 8 letters,
namely:--1. A letter from the Emperor Verus to Marcus Aurelius (Sec. 1); 2. Marcus Aurelius's
Reply (Sec. 2); 3. A letter from Marcus Aurelius to his prefect (Sec. 5); 4. The prefect's
reply (ibid); 5. A letter from Marcus Aurelius to Faustina (Sec. 9); 6. From Faustina to Marcus
Aurelius (Sec. 10); 7. Marcus Aurelius's Answer (Sec. 11); and 8. A letter from Avidius Cassius
to his son-in-law (Sec. 14); which ends the Life and enables the biographer to observe that
"that letter showed what a stern and cruel emperor Avidius Cassius must have been": "haec epistola
ejus indicat, quam severus et quam tristis futurus fuerit imperator."

[Endnote 136] The name of Emmanuel Chrysolaras must ever be associated with the revival of
the Greek language in Western Europe after the study of it had been discontinued since the
close of the eighth century, or for six hundred years. One of the earliest pupils of Chrysolaras,
Leonardi Bruni, speaks of him in terms of warm admiration in his interesting "Memoirs of Occurrences
in Italy during his Time" ("Rerum suo Tempore in Italia Gestarum Commentarius"). Bruni says
that Chrysolaras was "the only and sole Professor of Greek, and that if he had been lost sight
of, there was no one afterwards who could have taught that tongue": "hic autem unus solusque
Literarum Graecarum Doctor, si e conspectu se auferet, a quo postmodum ediscas, nemo reperietur"
(Muratori XIX. 920). Chrysolaras was a native of Constantinople, and member of a noble family;
the way in which his country was assailed by Bayazid, Sultan of the Turks, and threatened by
Tamerlane, Sultan of Samarcand, caused him to leave home, assured, as he was, of the certain
downfall of the Byzantine Empire; first he went to Venice, which he reached by sea; while he
was there teaching the Greek language his reputation spread to Florence, the inhabitants of
which, making him the offer of a public salary, pressed him to come to their city, to teach
their young men, numbers of whom were desirous of making themselves masters of his native tongue.
It was in the year 1399 when Chrysolaras, thus settling in Florence, revived the study of the
Greek language, and thereby gave a new and wonderful impulse to literature, first throughout
Italy, and then Spain, Portugal, France, and the other countries of Europe.

[Endnote 145] The letter, from which this extract is made, will be found in Bracciolini's works
(Pog. Op. pp. 301-5), as well as in the collection of his Epistles, (of which we have the first
volume only,) by the Chevalier de' Tonelli (pp. 11-20);--should the reader be fond of literary
curiosities he will also find it reproduced, as if it were his own composition, by Reduxis
de Quero in his "Chronicle of Trevigo,"--"Chronicon Tarvisinum,"-- preserved in Muratori's
Rerum Italicarum Scriptores (tom. XIX. 829-33). As Bracciolini wrote to his friend Leonardo
Bruni, Reduxis de Quero, not venturing to alter a word of what he pilfered, for fear of spoiling
his pillage, takes his reader into his confidence and affectionately addresses him in the second
person, while pretending, to have the exclusive information and personal recollections of Bracciolini,
who, present at the Council of Constance, as a member of the court of John XXIII., witnessed
the whole of the trial, defence and death of Jerome of Prague. Muratori, in exposing the plagiarism,
is surprised at the impudence of Reduxis stating that, at the time he wrote the account, he
was enjoying some leisure moments as Castellan of the "great Castle of Brescia":--"nihil enim
agens, dum custodiae vacarem Castri magni Brixiae, aliquid agere," &c. The narrative of Bracciolini,
light and airy, yet withal touching and graphic, has a wonderful effect in the "Chronicon Tarvisinum":
it's not unlike sunlight breaking in and brightly shining between banks of fog. It was, therefore,
necessary that a cause should be given for this supreme gleaming amid the general mists of
the dull and heavy Chronicle of de Quero; Muratori, accordingly, very properly dispels the
wonder of the reader by informing him that he is "here listening to Poggio writing, and in
a style," he adds, "which Reduxis was about the last man to imitate":--"itaque heic audis Poggium
scribentem, et quidem stylo, quem aequare Redusius minime gentium poterat."

[Endnote 208] Father Hardouin, however, is outrageously extravagant. He will admit that only
two Greek authors and four Latin ones --Cicero, Pliny the Elder, (a big part of) Horace (the
Satires and Epistles), and (a little bit of) Virgil (the Georgics), have come down to us, along
with the sacred writings of the Old and New Testaments. Nothing else is genuine that we have
from antiquity,--not even the coins,--certainly, not the productions of the Greek and Latin
Fathers of the Church, nor the Ecumenical Councils down to that held at Trent, and to cap the
climax of these appalling paradoxes, the parables and prophecies of the Saviour and the Apostles
first appeared in Latin. More wondrous still! This wholesale fabrication all occurred in the
13th century, and the forgers were exclusively Benedictine monks. Had the great Jesuit confined
his playful erudition to profane people all would have been well with him; but as he trenched
upon holy ground in the skittishness of his scepticism the ecclesiastical authorities set over
him were bound to interfere: his superiors severely reprimanded him, his promotion in the Church
was for ever after stopped, and the supreme French law court,--the Parlement de Paris,--suppressed
the book containing the novel raciness:--"Chronologiae ex Nummis Antiquis Restitutae Prolusio
de Nummis Herodiadum":--but wedded to his opinions, and stubborn in the maintenance of them,
Hardouin reproduced the least reprehensible in his "Ad Censuram Scriptorum Veterum Prologomena."
From the manner in which he has been replied to by scholars all over Europe, especially in
Holland, France and Germany, conspicuous among whom for pith of argument stand Basnage, Leclerc,
Lacroze, Ittig and Bierling, nobody at the present day considers that what he said about the
monuments of antiquity is worthy of the slightest attention, though everybody acknowledges
his wonderful memory, sagacity, ingenuity, and mastery of all kinds of literature, especially
history and chronology, and, above all, theology, of which he was a professor.

[Endnote 231] This I borrow from the Rev. Thomas Hunter, Vicar of Wrexham in the middle of
the last century, and author of a book on Tacitus, from which I take the idea in the text.
Hunter meant his work to be at once a philological and historical disquisition and a psychological
and ethical analysis: he wrote it evidently from being thoroughly disgusted by what he had
read in the Annals--(as well he might be);--and he laboured hard but in vain to show that the
same faults which he found in that work he detected also in the History. His dissertation ends
with a parallel between Livy and Tacitus, drawn expressly to disparage the latter, when every
judicious, unbiassed reader who will form his opinion of Tacitus solely from the narrative,
maxims, and sentiments met with in his History, must freely admit that he stands on a par with
(to the thinking of many, above) Livy as an historian, a moralist and a man, all of which is
denied by the ingenious Denbighshire clergyman. By a sort of intuitive knowledge,--or that
mental process, known as the evolution of inner consciousness,--the world has long arrived
at the conclusion that the Vicar of Wrexham's production is not valuable as a literary venture
that aims at imparting truth: accordingly, his small 8vo. of 1752 labelled "Observations on
Tacitus" shares the fate of the vast majority of modern volumes--it rests in peace buried in
dust upon bookshelves.

[Endnote 251] I know that Hallam says in one of his great books ("Literature of Europe") that
nobody now living believes in the authenticity of the Rowley Poems: but poetry was not the
forte of Henry Hallam. I am also aware that, towards the close of the last century, a long
and heated controversy raged for years among literary men, who may be divided into two distinct
classes,-- Believers in the Natural,--as Mr. Jacob Bryant, Dr. Jeremiah Milles, the Dean of
Exeter, Dr. Langhorne, and Dr. Glynne,--and Believers in the Cock Lane Ghost and the Supernatural
as Dr. Johnson, and the Mysterious and Impossible, as Lord Camden and Horace Walpole; and that
the world has denied its assent to the theory of the first set who maintained that the poems
were Rowley's, agreeing with the other set that they were Chatterton's, who, in consequence
of his tender years and ignorance, was placed, for inspiration and intuitive knowledge, on
a higher pedestal than Jeremiah. The position of the controversialists which has been accepted
amounts to this:--that a child at the age of twelve years wrote the pastoral "Elinoure and
Juga," which is marked by finer pathos than anything that proceeded from the passionate soul
of Burns: that when a few months or so older this child wrote "Aella," which displays an energy
equal, if not superior to Spencer's, and about the same time the "Tournament," which breathes
the spirit of the middle ages more intensely than the Ivanhoe of Sir Walter Scott.

    The mystic mazes of thy will,
    The shadows of celestial," &c.:

as good as Tate and Brady, to be sure,--but verses so common-place in ideas and so prosaic
in expression--that any youth in the sixth form at Eton or Winchester College would be ashamed
to produce them as a school exercise. Everything that is marvellous has its history as well
as everything that is comprehensible; and the story of the poems is as follows:--A bridge at
Bristol was completed in 1768; thereupon a ballad of a friar crossing a Bristol bridge in the
reign of Edward IV. was inserted in a local journal as appropriate to the occasion: it was
so sweet in its simplicity and rich in poetry while so much judgment tempered the composition
and such correctness was shown in every archaeological detail that it struck with amazement
all persons of literary taste who read it: the author being inquired after was found to be
an attorney's snub-nosed apprentice who copied precedents: the inquirer, becoming the victim
of a thousand-fold multiplied admiration and wonder, was astounded that such a queer boy turned
out to be the author of such a fine ballad! The world marvelled too, but became, and remains
to this day, a believer that Chatterton composed all the fragments which he himself, in the
first instance, truly and honestly ascribed to Rowley and other poets, who flourished in different
centuries; the consequence of which is that their poems form a very curious and interesting
medley of various archaic words belonging to several mediaeval periods. From the poems ascribed
to Lydgate (wrongly written by Chatterton, Ladgate) not being printed elsewhere, we must infer
that those fragments of his, and, by induction, the fragments of the other poets, were not
multiplied in copies; consequently we must conclude that they were all so highly prized by
their possessor in the fifteenth century, the rich Bristol merchant, Canynge, the founder of
St. Mary Redcliffe, that in his last will he bequeathed the whole of these protographs, to
be locked up in strong iron coffers, and deposited for safety in the church he had erected,
believing, no doubt, and with much propriety, that if he placed them in a sacred edifice their
preservation would be secured for the benefit of posterity. Unfortunately, if so, the stupidity
of the Town Clerk and the Mayor and Aldermen of Bristol in 1727 frustrated the intention of
the enlightened merchant; for when in that year those civic functionaries examined the papers
in the muniment room over the north porch of St. Mary Redcliffe for the purpose of reserving
only those that were valuable, they threw away as worthless all but the title deeds relating
to the church. They thus secured an immortal fame for Chatterton by enabling him (through the
aid of his uncle, the sexton), to get at the contents of the chests, select what parchments
he pleased, and place before the world poems which he candidly acknowledged were not his own,
but which he seems to have modernised, to have smoothed the verse (his own common-place rhymes
showing that he had an exquisite ear for harmony; but nothing else); and here and there to
have interpolated (or supplied missing, erased, and undecypherable) words, which spoilt lines,
but could not spoil the poems as masterpieces, from the classic form in which they are cast,
their power of thought, brilliance and vigour of imagination, happiness of invention, and extraordinary
depth of sensibility. One cannot help recalling Dogberry's saying that "good looks come by
Fortune and learning by Nature" when contemplating the universal belief that Chatterton wrote
the poems of Rowley.

[Endnote 297] I cannot help thinking that some confusion may arise in the mind of the reader
from misunderstanding the concluding expression of Bracciolini: literally he says: "provision
is made for me in the way of food and clothing with which I am satisfied, for out of this very
great costliness of the means of living even the king does not get more": from such language
one is almost induced to think that, in common with the sovereign, he had the use of the royal
kitchen and the royal wardrobe; in other words, that he was living in the royal palace, and
faring just as the king himself; but this was not the case: during his stay in England, he
resided with Cardinal Beaufort in the London Palace of the Prince Prelate: he means that in
eatables and raiment he was as well off as the king: he is alluding to the circumstance that,
notwithstanding his means and position, he was not bound down to the style of apparel and meals
as regulated by the law, which, for more than half a century, (since the days of Edward III.,)
had prohibited all who were not possessed of more than L100 a year (as was the case with himself)
from using gold and silver in their dress, and had limited their grandest entertainment to
one soup and two dishes.

[Endnote 303] "To place the Moon in the Ram!" Well, the expression certainly in its eccentricity
is quite equal to the phraseological excursion to the moon of Madame de Sevigne, who, meaning
to speak of attempting an impossibility, writes "lay hold of the moon with the teeth"--prendre
la lune avec les dents!" Bracciolini, who, in his letters to Niccoli puts me in mind of Dean
Swift in his letters to Dr. Arbuthnot, (as far as using words and inventing terms to bother
and perplex his friend,) has here fairly put his editors at a non plus from the first in Basle
to the last in Florence; he is up in a balloon--clean out of their sight,--so they all print
Aries in the accusative and with a small a--"poneres lunam in arietem,"--which not at all understanding,
I have changed the phrase to what it is in the text. Bracciolini by the Ram is referring neither
to the male sheep nor the battering instrument of war among the Romans, but the vernal sign:
he had evidently read Roger Bacon, and believed with the "Somersetshire Magician," (as the
Brother of the Minor Order was styled by his contemporaries), that a man's neck is subject
to the power of the Bull, his arms to that of the Twins, and his head or brains to that of
the Ram: When "the Moon" then, "is in the Ram," a lunatic is surely doubly mad, suffering,
as he does, from the combined influences of the Moon, (especially when full), and of the Ram,
--particularly at the beginning of April, the first day of which is amusingly consecrated to
fools, and has been so worshippingly set apart in consequence of the belief that was entertained
by the Benedictine man of science respecting the Constellation of the Zodiac that is the sign
of April--"caput est de complexione Arietis" (Rog. Bacon. Opus Majus. p. 240).

[Endnote 357] The way in which Bracciolini wrote Latin verse will be seen in the following
epitaph which he composed in honour of his preceptor in the Greek language, Emanuel Chrysolarus:--

    Hic est Emanuel situs
    Sermonis decus Attici,
    Qui dum quaerere spem patriae
    Afflictae studeret, huc iit;
    Res belle cecidit tuis
    Votis Italia. Hic tibi
    Linguae restituit decus,
    Atticae ante reconditae.
    Res belle cecidit tuis
    Votis Emanuel. Solo
    Constitutus in Italo
    Aeternum decus, et tibi
    Quale Graecia non dedit
    Bello perdita Graecia.

The fact, then, is that,--putting aside false quantities,--he was more eloquent and poetic
when he was writing prose than when he was writing poetry.

[Endnote 401] Don Pio Mutio in his "Meditations upon Tacitus" forms a very different estimate
of this description; he places the account of this tempest which carried Germanicus into the
ocean in that part of his dissertation where he speaks of Tacitus as "marvellous in description",--"nelle
descrittioni maraviglioso", --portraying things with such magnificent clearness that you can
see them as distinctly on his page as if you were looking at a picture on canvas or cardboard
done by an eminent artist;--"portando egli le cose con tanta maesta e chiarezza, che quasi
ce le fa vedere nella sua scrittura, come farebbe eccellente pittore in una tela o tavolo"
(Considerationi sopra Cornelio Tacito. p. 481 Brescia Ed. 1623). Mutio's "Meditations" are
no meditations on Cornelius Tacitus but Poggio Bracciolini; for they are not meditations upon
all the historical productions that pass under the name of Tacitus,--not even upon the whole
of the Annals, but only the first book of it; almost every passage of which,--certainly, every
sentiment is elucidated, or rather, expatiated upon with signal originality and shrewdness
of view, so as to have won the admiration and praise in no fewer than five of his epigrams
of Benedetto Sossago, Mutio's fellow-countryman and contemporary, well skilled in scholastic
acquirements, philosophy and theology, a doctor of the Ambrosian College at Milan, and a writer
distinguished principally for poems in Latin,--"Sylvae"; "Opuscula Sacra"; two books of "Odes";
seven books of "Epigrams"; and according to the Abbot Picinelli, in his "Atenco de i Letterati
Milanesi", Sossago would have added to these an epic about Borromeo, had he not died in the
midst of composing the "Caroleis", which was to have made his name a "familiar household word"
to all posterity. The "Biographie Universelle", which Madame Desplaces's editor of it, M. Charles
Nodier, says, is "one of the greatest and most useful conceptions of our age" ought, (because
it is so useful and great), to have contained a memoir of Mutio, for he was a most accomplished
politician: in addition to these "Meditations on Tacitus" which are filled with political wisdom,
he wrote another treatise also on politics and also in Italian: he was Abbot of the Benedictine
Monastery of Monte Casino, and went on several important embassies to the French Court during
the reign of Louis XIII. His work on the First Book of the Annals, --which is a commentary
divided into 358 meditations or considerations comprised in a quarto of over 600 closely printed
pages,--goes a long way in proving the truth of my theory, because it is one of the half-dozen
or so of substantive books, (and bulky tomes, too), which were devoted exclusively to a consideration
of the Annals in less than a century after the whole of that work was first placed before the
world, showing its remarkable attractiveness, and what great attention MUST have been paid
to it, had it been as old as it is generally supposed to be; but, (as I have observed in the
text, p. 16), there not having been a word said about it from the second to the fifteenth century
is all but proof positive of its non-existence during those 1,300 years.

[Endnote 408: "What has rendered 'Tacitus' obscure", says the Rev. Thomas Hunter in that book
of his from which I have so frequently quoted, "is the refinement of his sentiments; which,
like some minims in Nature, require uncommon sagacity and artificial power to assist you in
the knowledge of." I cannot help thinking that these remarks are much more, if not solely applicable
to the author of the Annals, (consequently, Bracciolini), than to Tacitus, as well as these
further observations on the difficulty of the Latin:--"Let a reader take Livy in hand without
translation or notes, if he is but a moderate adept in the Latin tongue, he will find little
difficulty in many chapters together, except where some plodding editor brings in an awkward
word to confound common sense and spoil a beautiful antithesis. If he is a proficient in the
Roman language, he will read a book from end to end, with little hesitation or doubt concerning
his meaning in any place: but a good classical scholar, who sits down to Tacitus, disclaiming
the assistance of commentary or translation, will meet with difficulties in every book, and
frequently in every page". (Observations upon Tacitus. pp. 218-9.) Archdeacon Browne, speaking
of the style of "Tacitus," says (in his "History of Roman Classical Literature," p. 487), "his
brevity ... is the necessary condensation of a writer whose thoughts flow more quickly than
his tongue could express them. Hence his sentences are suggestive of far more than they express:
they are enigmatical hints of deep and hidden meaning, which keep the mind active and the attention
alive, and delight the reader with the pleasures of discovery and the consciousness of difficulties
overcome." "The thoughts flowing more quickly than the tongue" (that is, the pen) "can express
them," is an apt phrase, (without the Archdeacon knowing how truthfully he was speaking), for
the embarrassment under which a fabricator labours when endeavouring, not only to write like
an ancient, but to assimilate his style to that of another, which being quite different to
his own, he is conscious that, strive as he may, he will never come up to a close resemblance
to the original. (See pages 192 and 266 of this work).