It goes by just that name on the West End yet; for never were such a winter and such a snow
known on the plains and in the mountains. One train on the northern division was stalled six
weeks that winter, and one whole coach was chopped up for kindling wood. The great and desperate
effort of the company was to hold open the main line, the artery which connected the two coasts.
It was a hard winter on trainmen. Week after week the snow kept falling and blowing. The trick
was not to clear the line; it was to keep it clear. Every day we sent out trains with the fear
that we should not see them again for a week. Freight we didn't pretend to move; local passenger
business had to be abandoned. Coal, to keep our engines and our towns supplied, we had to carry;
and after that all the brains and muscle and motive power were centered on keeping One and
Two, our through passenger trains, running.

Our trainmen worked like Americans; there were no cowards on our rolls. But after too long
a strain men become exhausted, benumbed, indifferent; reckless, even. The nerves give out,
and will-power seems to halt on indecision; but decision is the life of the fast train. None
of our conductors stood the hopeless fight like Sankey. He was patient, taciturn, untiring;
and in a conflict with the elements, ferocious. All the fighting blood of his ancestors seemed
to course again in that struggle with the winter king. I can see him yet, on bitter days, standing
alongside the track in a heavy pea-jacket and Napoleon boots, a sealskin cap drawn snugly over
his straight black hair, watching, ordering, signaling, while Number One, with its frost-bitten
sleepers behind a rotary, tried to buck through ten and twenty-foot cuts which lay bank-full
of snow west of McCloud.

Not until April did it begin to look as if we should win out. A dozen times the line was all
but choked on us. And then, when snow-plows were disabled and train crews desperate, there
came a storm that discounted the worst blizzard of the winter. As the reports rolled in on
the morning of the 5th, growing worse as they grew thicker, Neighbor, dragged out, played out,
mentally and physically, threw up his hands. It snowed all day the 6th, and on Saturday morning
the section men reported thirty feet in the Blackwood cañon. It was six o'clock when we got
the word, and daylight before we got the rotary against it. They bucked away till noon without
much headway, and came in with their gear smashed and a driving-rod fractured. It looked as
if we were at last beaten. Number One pulled into McCloud that day eighteen hours late; it
was Sankey's and Sinclair's run west.

There was a long council in the round-house. The rotary was knocked out; coal was running low
in the chutes. If the line wasn't kept open for the coal from the mountains, it was plain we
should be tied until we could ship it from Iowa or Missouri. West of Medicine Pole there was
another big rotary working east, with plenty of coal behind her; but she was reported stuck
fast in the Cheyenne Hills. Foley made suggestions, and Dad Sinclair made suggestions. Everybody
had a suggestion left. The trouble was, Neighbor said, they didn't amount to anything, or were
impossible. "It's a dead block, boys," announced Neighbor sullenly after everybody had done.
"We are beaten unless we can get Number One through to-day. Look there: by the holy poker,
it's snowing again."

The air was dark in a minute with whirling clouds. Men turned to the windows and quit talking.
Every fellow felt the same--hopeless; at least, all but one. Sankey, sitting back of the stove,
was making tracings with a piece of chalk. "You might as well unload your passengers, Sankey,"
said Neighbor. "You'll never get 'em through this winter."

And it was then that Sankey proposed his double-header.

He devised a snow-plow which combined in one monster ram about all the good material we had
left, and submitted the scheme to Neighbor. Neighbor studied it, and hacked at it all he could,
and brought it over to the office. It was like staking everything on the last cast of the dice,
but we were in the state of mind which precedes a desperate venture. It was talked over an
hour, and orders were finally given by the superintendent to rig up the double-header and get
against the snow with it.

All that day and most of the night Neighbor worked twenty men on Sankey's device. By Sunday
morning it was in such shape that we began to take heart. "If she don't get through, she'll
sure get back again, and that's what most of 'em don't do," growled Neighbor, as he and Sankey
showed the new ram to the engineers.

They had taken the 566, George Sinclair's engine, for one head, and Burns's, the 497, for the
other. Behind these were Kennedy, with the 314, and Cameron, with the 296. The engines were
set in pairs, headed each way, and buckled up like pack mules. Over the pilots and stacks of
the head engines rose the tremendous plows, which were to tackle the worst drifts ever recorded,
before or since, on the West End. The ram was designed to work both ways. Under the coal, each
tender was loaded with pig-iron.

The beleaguered passengers on Number One, side-tracked in the yards, eagerly watched the preparations
Sankey was making to clear the line. Every amateur on the train had his camera out taking pictures
of the ram. The town, gathered in a single great mob, looked silently on, and listened to the
frosty notes of the sky-scrapers as they went through their preliminary manoeuvers. Just as
the final word was given by Sankey, conductor in charge, the sun burst through the fleecy clouds,
and a wild cheer followed the ram out of the western yard; it was looked on as a sign of good
luck to see the sun again.

Little Neeta, up on the hill, must have seen them as they pulled out. Surely she heard the
choppy ice-bitten screech of the 566; for that was never forgotten, whether the service was
special or regular. Besides, the head cab of the ram carried this time not only Georgie Sinclair,
but her father as well. Sankey could handle a slice-bar as well as a punch, and rode on the
head engine, where, if anywhere, the big chances would come. What Sankey was not capable of
in the train-service we never knew, because he rose superior to every emergency that ever confronted
him.

Bucking snow is principally brute force; there is very little coaxing. West of the bluffs there
was a volley of sharp tooting, like code signals between a fleet of cruisers, and in just a
minute the four ponderous engines, two of them in the back motion, fires white and throats
bursting, steamed wildly into the cañon. Six hundred feet from the first cut, Sinclair's whistle
signaled again. Burns and Cameron and Kennedy answered; and then, literally turning the monster
ram loose against the dazzling mountain, the crews settled themselves for the shock.

At such a moment there is nothing to be done. If anything goes wrong, eternity is too close
to consider. There came a muffled drumming on the steam-chests; a stagger and a terrific impact;
and then the recoil, like the stroke of a trip-hammer. The snow shot into the air fifty feet,
and the wind carried a cloud of fleecy confusion over the ram and out of the cut. The cabs
were buried in white, and the great steel frames of the engines sprung like knitting-needles
under the frightful force of the blow. Pausing for hardly a breath, they began the signaling
again; then backed up and up and up the line; and again the massive machines were hurled screaming
into the cut. "We're getting there, Georgie," cried Sankey when the rolling and lurching had
stopped.

No one else could tell a thing about it, for it was snow and snow and snow; above and behind
and ahead and beneath. Sinclair coughed the flakes out of his eyes and nose and mouth like
a baffled collie. He looked doubtful of the claim until the mist had blown clear and the quivering
monsters were again recalled for a dash. Then it was plain that Sankey's instinct was right;
they were gaining.

Again they went in, lifting a very avalanche over the stacks, packing the banks of the cut
with walls hard as ice. Again, as the drivers stuck, they raced in a frenzy, and into the shriek
of the wind went the unearthly scrape of the overloaded safeties. Slowly and sullenly the machines
were backed again. "She's doing the work, Georgie," cried Sankey. "For that kind of a cut she's
as good as a rotary. Look everything over now while I go back and see how the boys are standing
it. Then we'll give her one more, and give it the hardest kind."

And they did give her one more; and another. Men at Santiago put up no stouter fight than these
men made that Sunday morning in the cañon of the Blackwood. Once they went in, and twice. And
the second time the bumping drummed more deeply; the drivers held, pushed, panted, and gained
against the white wall; heaved and stumbled ahead; and with a yell from Sinclair and Sankey
and the fireman, the double-header shot her nose into the clear over the Blackwood gorge. As
engine after engine flew past the divided walls each cab took up the cry; it was the wildest
crowd that ever danced to victory. Through they went and half-way across the bridge before
they could check their monster catapult. Then, at a half full, they shot it back again at the
cut, for it worked as well one way as the other.

"The thing is done," declared Sankey, when they got into position up the line for a final shoot
to clean out the eastern cut and get head for a dash across the bridge and into the west end
of the cañon, where there lay another mountain of snow to split. "Look the machines over pretty
close, boys," said he to the engineers. "If nothing's sprung, we'll take a full head across
the gorge--the bridge will carry anything--and buck the west cut. Then after we get Number
One through this afternoon, Neighbor can put his baby cabs in here and keep 'em chasing all
night. But it's done snowing," he added, looking at the leaden sky.

He had the plans all figured out for the master mechanic, the shrewd, kindly old man. I think,
myself, there's no man on earth like a good Indian; and, for that matter, none like a bad one.
Sankey knew by a military instinct just what had to be done and how to do it. If he had lived,
he was to have been assistant superintendent. That was the word that leaked from headquarters
afterward. And with a volley of jokes between the cabs and a laughing and yelling between toots,
down went Sankey's double-header again into the Blackwood gorge.

At the same moment, by an awful misunderstanding of orders, down came the big rotary from the
west end with a dozen cars of coal behind. Mile after mile it had wormed east toward Sankey's
ram, and it now burrowed through the western cut of the Blackwood, crashed through the drift
Sankey was aiming for, and whirled out into the open, dead against him, at forty miles an hour.
Each train, in order to make the grade and the blockade against it, was straining the cylinders.

Through the swirling snow that half hid the bridge and interposed between the rushing plows
Sinclair saw them coming. He yelled. Sankey saw them a fraction of a second later, and while
Sinclair struggled with the throttle and the air, Sankey gave the alarm through the whistle
to the poor fellows in the blind pockets behind. But the track was at the worst. Where there
was no snow there were "whiskers"; oil itself couldn't have been worse to stop on. It was the
old and deadly peril of fighting blockades from both ends on a single track. The great rams
of steel and fire had done their work, and with their common enemy overcome, they dashed at
each other like madmen across the Blackwood gorge.

The fireman at the first cry shot out the side. Sankey yelled at Sinclair to jump. But Georgie
shook his head: he never would jump. Without hesitating, Sankey picked him from the levers
in his arms, planted a sure foot, and hurled him like a coal shovel through the gangway far
out into the gorge. The other cabs were already empty. But the instant's delay in front cost
Sankey his life. Before he himself could jump the rotary crashed into the 566. They reared
like mountain lions, pitched sideways and fell headlong into the creek, fifty feet. Sankey
went under them. He could have saved himself; he chose to save George. There wasn't time to
do both; he had to choose, and to choose instantly. Did he, maybe, think in that flash of Neeta
and of whom she needed most--of a young and a stalwart protector rather than an old and failing
one? I do not know; I know only what he did. Every one who jumped got clear. Sinclair lit in
ten feet of snow, and they pulled him out with a rope: he wasn't scratched. Even the bridge
was not badly strained. Number One pulled over it next day.

Sankey was right; there was no more snow; not even enough to cover the dead engines that lay
on the rocks. But the line was open: the fight was won.

There never was a funeral in McCloud like Sankey's. George Sinclair and Neeta followed first,
and of the mourners there were as many as there were spectators. Every engine on the division
carried black for thirty days.

Sankey's contrivance for fighting snow has never yet been beaten on the high line. It is perilous
to go against a drift behind it: something has to give. But it gets there, as Sankey got there--always;
and in time of blockade and desperation on the West End they still send out Sankey's double-header;
though Sankey, as the conductors tell the children, traveling east or traveling west--Sankey
isn't running any more.

VIII

AUNT MARY TELEGRAPHS

A Comedy of Everyday Life

By LLOYD E. LONERGAN

     "AUNTIE left on the six-o'clock train last night. Meet her at the
     depot.--CLARA."

This telegram, dated New York, greeted Frank Carey when he reached his pleasant little home
on Indiana Avenue, Chicago.

"Aunt Mary will be here to-night," he said to his wife, "my rich aunt from New York, you know.
I am to meet her at the depot."

"When does she arrive?" fluttered pretty little Mrs. Carey, a bride of a few months. "Cannot
I go with you to the depot?"

Mr. Carey said she could, then he thought for a moment, then he put his doubts into words after
a second reading of the telegram.

"I wonder what road she is coming in on?" he said.

"'Twas stupid of her," replied his wife, "but call up the railroads and find out which one
has a six-o'clock train from New York. Silly!"

Mr. Carey kissed his wife and remarked that she was the brightest little girl in the world,
after which he gaily telephoned, listened intently to someone on the other end of the line,
made numerous notes, and turned to his wife in despair.

"Bless Clara!" he said devoutly.

His wife looked surprised, so he hastily explained.

"There is a six o'clock train from New York on the Pennsylvania, also on the Lake Shore, likewise
on the Michigan Central, and the Lehigh Valley, and the Grand Trunk, and the West Shore, and
the B. &. O.!"

"Which one is auntie coming on?" inquired Mrs. Carey with interest.

"All of them," replied her husband wrathfully. "She is sitting on the cow-catcher of each and
every train, and if I'm not there to meet her she'll disinherit me. Haven't you any sense?"

Whereupon there were tears, apologies, and finally a council of war. It was Mrs. Carey who
solved the problem.

"All we have to do," she cried, "is to meet all the trains. Won't it be cute?"

Carey didn't think so, but was afraid to express himself. He simply tried to look impressed
and listened.

"There are only seven trains," she continued. "Now you," counting on her fingers, "are one,
and I am two and Mr. and Mrs. Haines next door, who belong to my whist club, are four; and
Ella Haines is five; and I just saw Mr. What's-his-name go in to call on Ella--and he'll be
six; and that horrid man on the next block who is in your lodge will have to be seven."

The "train meeters" were gathered together inside of an hour. Mrs. Carey overruled all objections
and laughed away all difficulties. She told them it would be a lark, and they believed it--at
the time! As none of them had met Mrs. Smith (Aunt Mary), Carey was called upon for a description.

"Aunt Mary," he said, "is of medium height, dark complexion and usually dresses in black. She
is fifty-eight years old, but tells people she is under fifty. You cannot miss her." And with
this they were compelled to be satisfied.

       *        *       *       *       *

Ella Haines was assigned to the Pennsylvania depot and arrived late. All the New York passengers
had disembarked, but an old woman was standing at the entrance and looking anxiously at the
passers-by.

"Mrs. Smith?" said Ella, inquiringly.

"Thank heaven, you have come," was the joyous reply.

"Here," and she stepped to one side and revealed a little girl who was gazing out at the tracks.
"I've had such a time with that brat and I'll never travel with another again. I've just got
time to catch my train for St. Paul. Good-bye!" Whereupon, disregarding Ella's cries and her
protestations, the woman rushed madly to the other end of the depot and disappeared through
a gate which closed behind her with a slam. It was the last call for the St. Paul train.

Naturally, Ella did not know what to do. She hung around the depot for half an hour, hoping
someone would claim the child. Then she put the little one in a cab and gave the Careys' address
in Indiana Avenue.

       *        *       *       *       *

Walter Haines went to the Lake Shore depot. One of the first passengers to emerge from the
New York train was a female, who seemed to answer the general description furnished by Carey.
She was breathless as if from running faster than an old woman should run. As she reached Haines,
she stopped and glared at him.

"Mrs. Smith?" he inquired, lifting his hat.

The woman grabbed him by the arm. "I knew you would be here, but hurry, that man is after me!"

"What man?" asked Haines in surprise.

"Hush, we cannot talk now," was the reply. "Get a carriage and drive fast, fast; we must escape
him."

"George couldn't come, he sent me. My name is Haines," said the puzzled escort.

"I don't care if your name is Beelzebub" was the impatient retort. "You get that carriage or
I'll write to Roosevelt." And Mr. Haines, very much astonished, complied.

He thought as he drove away that he heard someone shouting, but was not sure; in fact, he paid
no attention, for he was too busy thinking what a queer old aunt his friend Carey had.

The "horrid man who belonged to the lodge" was named Perkins. He reached the B. & O. depot
half an hour ahead of time, so he went across the street and had a drink. When he returned
he discovered that No. 7 was late, and so had another. Also, several more. By the time the
train did arrive he was in such a mellow state that he couldn't tell a parlor car from a lake
steamer--and he didn't care! He had likewise forgotten what George's aunt looked like, but
that, too, was a trivial matter. So he stood at the gate, beaming blandly at every person that
appeared.

"Are you Georsh's saunt?" he inquired of a tall man with white side-whiskers and garbed in
ministerial black. His answer was a look of horror, but it had no effect on Perkins, who repeated
his question at intervals without result. His lack of success finally drove him to tears.

"Poor Georsh!" he sobbed. "Dear old Georsh! Must have an naunt! Break hish heart if he don't
have an naunt! Can't fine his naunt! Get him one myself!"

A gang of immigrants were passing at the time. Perkins grabbed one of them by the arm.

"Be nish fellow," he said persuasively, "be Georsh's aunt."

The immigrant was obdurate, but Perkins was persistent. He drew a roll of bills from his pocket
and peeled off a five. This he pressed upon his new-found friend.

"Be a good aunt," he said, "be a nish aunt, and I'll give you two more like thish!"

The Italian, overcome by the sight of so much wealth, fell captive to the eloquence of Perkins.
The latter was delighted. He escorted his victim to a saloon across the street and hurled six
drinks into him in rapid succession. The immigrant beamed and forgot all his troubles. He lit
a fifteen-cent cigar and puffed away as if he were used to it.

"Be your-a aunt," he said, "be-a anybody's aunt. You good-a feller."

This sentiment led to another round of drinks, and then the pair tumbled into a cab, singing
discordantly in two languages. Perkins fortunately remembered the address of Haines, and was
able to mumble it so that the hackman could understand. Therefore there was no bar to his enjoyment.

Of course they stopped en route, for Perkins was brimming over with gratitude and the cabman
was included in their rejoicing. Long before they reached Indiana Avenue, everybody was drunk
except the horse.

In the meantime there was all sorts of trouble in the modest residence of George Carey. The
head of the household had fumed and fretted about the Michigan Central depot, and finally started
home, auntless. There he met his wife, Mrs. Haines and Ella's young man with similar stories.
Five minutes later a carriage drove up and Ella and her charge alighted.

"Isn't she a dear little girl?" gurgled Miss Haines, who, being petite and worried, didn't
know anything else to do under the circumstances except to gurgle.

Carey gazed at the young woman with distinct disapproval for the first time in his life.

"I know the popular impression is that old ladies shrink," he said, "but Aunt Mary could never
have shrunk to that size. Where did you get her and why?"

Falteringly, Miss Haines explained. Then she cried. The child, who had regarded them gravely
up to this point, took it for a signal. She screamed, then she roared. Nobody could comfort
her or find out who she was.

The arrival of another cab distracted their attention. The bell rang loudly. As Carey opened
the door, an old woman bounded in. Her hat was on one side of her head and her eyes gleamed madly.

"Safe at last!" she cried. Then she ran upstairs, entered Mrs. Haines's room, and locked the
door. Through the panels came the sound of hysterical laughter.

Walter Haines entered the house at this moment. His attitude was distinctly apologetic.

"Remarkable old lady, isn't she?" he ventured.

"Who?" asked Mr. Carey.

"Why your aunt, of course; didn't you see her come in?"

Carey choked down his wrath out of respect to the ladies, but it was hard work.

"I never saw that woman before," he remarked; "you brought her here uninvited, now you take
her away."

Naturally this provoked argument. Mrs. Haines sided with her husband, Mrs. Carey flew to the
aid of her worser half, Miss Haines wept, and the little girl screamed. Upstairs, the bogus
Aunt Mary was still laughing.

None of the interested parties could tell afterward how long the talk continued. A louder noise
outside drew them all to the front porch. In front of the house was a hansom cab drawn by a
disgusted-looking horse. He looked and acted like one who had been compelled against his will
to mingle with disreputable associates.

The driver descended from his seat and fell full length upon the pavement. He didn't try to
get up, but chanted in a husky tone, "Hail! hail! the gang's all here!!!"

Then the door of the cab opened and Mr. Perkins appeared. Nobody could deny that he was very
much the worse for wear. But Mr. Perkins bore himself like a conqueror. He advanced hastily
and embraced Carey with enthusiasm. Carey recoiled.

"Dear Georsh," said Perkins. "Got you an naunt!"

Apprehensively, Carey ran to the carriage. Huddled upon the floor was an object that moved
faintly. From the atmosphere Sherlock Holmes would have deduced that a whisky refinery had
exploded in that cab a few hours before. The onlooker gingerly touched the object. It rolled
over, then it rolled out of the cab and lay on the sidewalk beside the driver.

Perkins kept on smiling. "Your naunt," he remarked, blandly. "Couldn't get you what you wanted.
Got you thish one!"

At this moment, Carey remembered that he had a telephone. He spurned his "aunt" with his foot
and passed into the house. He called up Police Headquarters. His friend, Sergeant Bob O'Rourke,
was on duty, which made it easier for him.

"Bob," he said, after greetings had been exchanged, "have you an alarm out for a little girl
kidnapped from the Pennsylvania station?"

"Yes."

"And does anybody want a crazy woman, last seen on a Lake Shore train?"

"Yes; her keeper was here half an hour ago," was the reply. "He was taking her to Kankakee
and she made a get-away. What do you know about her?"

"They are both here," was the reply. "Send the wagon, and just for good measure I'll throw
in an Italian immigrant who came in over the B. & O. and a cab-driver. They are both drunk,
very drunk, and please take the cab away too."

The next half hour gave Indiana Avenue residents plenty to talk about for a month. But finally
the combat was over, and Carey and his friends sat down exhausted.

"But what I would like to know," remarked the head of the house, "where, oh where is Aunt Mary?"

It was a messenger-boy who brought the answer--a telegram dated Niagara Falls, current date
and reading:

     "Stopped over here. Isn't the view from Goat Island wonderful? Leave
     for Chicago on the first train. Meet me."

There was a sudden painful silence.

"Does anybody know how many trains there are from Niagara Falls?" inquired Mrs. Carey, speaking
to the company generally. She didn't dare to address her husband.

"Just about as many as there are from New York," replied Haines, with a woebegone look. "But--"

"Don't finish it," returned Carey, "I am not going to ask you to try again, and I am not going
to do so myself. Aunt Mary can leave her money to anybody she pleases. If I had another night
like this the executors would be compelled to mail me my cheque to an asylum."

And the next evening Aunt Mary, unattended, reached her nephew's house without any trouble
at all. She didn't disinherit him; in fact, she felt so sorry because of his troubles that
she bought Mrs. Carey a complete spring outfit regardless of cost.

It's a good thing to have an Aunt Mary, even if she is indefinite in her telegrams.

IX

THE VENGEANCE OF THE WOLF

A Drama in Wales

By J. AQUILA KEMPSTER

IN THE great stone hall of Llangarth, Daurn-ap-Tavis, the old Welsh Wolf lay dying. Outside
was the night and a sullen gale whose winds came moaning down the hills and clung about the
house with little bodeful whispers that grew to long-drawn eerie wails, while pettish rain-squalls
spent their spite in futile gusts on door and casement.

And through the night from time to time a horseman came, spurring hard and spitting out strange
Welsh oaths at the winds that harried him. Five had passed the door since sun-down, four worthy
sons and a nephew of the Wolf. They stood now booted and spurred about the old man's couch,
a rough-looking crew with the mud caking them from head to foot, while the leaping flames from
the log fire flung their shadows black and distorted far up among the rafters.

They hung around him sullenly, but as he looked them up and down the sick man's eyes took on
a new keenness and a low, throaty laugh that was half a growl escaped him.

"Well, Cedric, man, what devil's game have you been playing of late? and, Tad, you black rascal--ah,
'twas a pity you were born to Gruffydd instead of me. Well, well, boys, the old Wolf's cornered
at last, cornered at last, and Garm, Levin, Rhys--the Cadwallader's going to live and laugh,
aye, he's going to live and laugh while a Tavis roasts in hell."

Garm started with a low growl, while Cedric kicked savagely at a hound that lay beside the logs.

"Aye, Ced, kick the old dog, but it won't stop the Cadwallader's laugh."

Cedric clenched his fists at the taunt and his face grew purple in the fire glow, but old Daurn
went on remorselessly: "Twenty years he's laughed at the Wolf and his whelps, an' think you
he'll stop now? He was always too lucky for me. I thought when my lads grew strong---- But
there, he laid me low, the only man that ever did, curse him! There's the mark, boys; see the
shamed blood rise to it?"

He loosened his shirt with a fretful jerk and they bent over and glowered at the red scar which
ran across his chest. They had all seen it times before, knew the dark quarrel and the darker
fight, had tingled with shame again and again, but to-night it seemed to hold an added sting,
for the Wolf was going out with his debt unpaid.

Cedric, the elder, gaped and shuddered, then fell to cursing again, but Daurn drew back the
quilt and went on talking: "I swore by the body of God to get even, and day and night I've
watched my chance. I tried at Tredegar, and that night ye all mind at Ebbu Vale. Yes, I tell
you a dozen times, but he's a fox, curse him! a sly old fox, and now the Wolf's teeth are broken.
What's that, Ced? Look to him, Tad--aye, look to all thy cousins. Fine grown lads, big, brave,
and fierce, but the Cadwallader still lives and laughs; yes, laughs at old Daurn and his boys.
My God! to think of it."

"Curse me! choke me!" Cedric stormed out in spluttering fury, gripping his sword with one hand
while he dragged at his coat with the other. "I'll cut--cut his bl-black gizzard, blast him.
I'm a c-c-coward, eh! Right in my t-teeth! Well, wait till th'-th' dawn an' see."

He had crammed his hat over his eyes and with coat buttoned all awry was half way to the door
before Tad caught and held him, whispering in his ear: "Steady, Ced, steady. He's got some
plan or I'm a fool. Come back an' wait a bit, an' if I'm mistaken I'll surely ride along with ye."

Cedric yielded, doubtful and sullen, but Daurn greeted him bravely: "God's truth, lad, you've
the spirit of the Wolf at least, but you've got no brains to plan. Come close an' listen, an'
if ye truly want a fight thy father'll never balk thee."

Then with faltering breath but gleaming eyes he unfolded the plan he had conceived to make
his dying a thing of greater infamy than all his bloody days.

The beginnings of the feud between the House of the Wolf and that of Llyn Gethin, the Cadwallader,
were so remote that probably both had forgotten, if they ever knew them, for the old Welsh
chieftains passed their quarrels on from generation to generation and their hot blood rarely
cooled in the passing. Llyn was about the only man in the country who had been able to hold
his own against "the Tavis," but hold it he had with perhaps a trifle to spare. Indeed, of
late years he had let slip many an opportunity for reprisals, and thrice had made overtures
of peace which had been violently rejected. Llyn had fought fair at least, even if he had struck
hard, but the life of the Wolf had been as treacherous as it was bloody. And day by day and
year by year, as Daurn's strength began to fail and brooding took the place of action, the
bitterness of his hatred grew, and out of this at last the plan. It was simple.

Daurn was old, dying, and weary of the strife. He would pass at peace with the world and particularly
with his ancient foe. A messenger should be sent inviting Llyn and his sons to Llangarth. They
would suspect nothing, for all Wales knew the Wolf lay low--would probably come unarmed and
needs must, as time was short, travel by night. Well, there was a convenient and lonely spot
some three miles from Llangarth--did the lads understand? Aye, they understood, but their breath
came heavily and they glanced furtively each at the other, while the youngest, Rhys, shivered
and drew closer to Tad.

Daurn's burning eyes questioned them one by one, and one by one they bowed their heads but
spake never a word.

"Ye'll swear to it, lads," he whispered hoarsely, and drew a long dagger from beneath his pillow.
For answer there came the rattle of loosened steel, and as he again bared his breast they drew
closer in a half circle, laying their blades flat above his heart, his own dagger adding to
the ring of steel.

And then they swore by things unknown to modern men to wipe out the shame that had lain so
long upon their house, and that before their father died.

As their voices ceased the wind outside seemed to take up the burden of their bloody oath as
if possessed, for it shrieked and wailed down the great chimney like some living thing in pain.
And then, in a little lull following on the sobbing cry, there came a curious straining push
that shook the closed oak door.

They stood transfixed, for a moment daunted, with their swords half in and half out their scabbards,
till with a warning gesture to his cousins, Black Tad stole softly across the floor and, lifting
the heavy bar cautiously, opened the door.

He paused an instant on the lintel, motionless and rigid to the point of his sword, his eyes
fixed on the white face of a girl who was cowered back against the further wall. For a fraction
of time he hesitated, but the awful anguish of the face and the mute, desperate appeal of the
whole pose settled him. With a rough clatter he sprang into the dim passage, rattling his sword
and stamping his feet, at the same time giving vent with his lips to the yelp of a hound in
pain, and following it with rough curses and vituperation. Then, without another glance at
the girl, he re-entered the hall and slammed to the door, grumbling at Rhys for not keeping
his dogs tied up.

By one o'clock the great hall was still. The men were lying scattered about the house, for
the most part sleeping as heavily as many jorums of rum made possible.

But the firelight flickering in the hall caught ever an answering gleam from the old Wolf's
eyes as he lay there gray, shaggy, and watchful. From time to time his bony fingers plucked
restlessly at his beard, and now and again his lips stretched back over yellow teeth in an
evil smile as he gloated over the details of his coming vengeance.

And out in a chill upper hall Gwenith, the fair daughter of a black house, sat in a deep embrasure,
her arms clinging to the heavy oak bars desperately. The wind moaned and sighed about her while
her white terrified lips echoed the agony of her heart. And the burden of her whispered cry
was ever, "Davy!--Davy!" and then: "For the Christ's sake! Davy!--Davy!--Davy!"

So the night drew on with the men and dogs sleeping torpidly; with the old Wolf chuckling grimly
as the shadows closed about him, and with the child in the cold above sobbing out pitiful prayers
for her lover, for only yesterday she had plighted her troth to Davy Gethin, the Cadwallader's
youngest son.

These two had met in the early days when she wandered free over the rolling hills, a wild young
kilted sprite, fearful of nothing save her father and his grim sons. And Davy had wooed her
ardently, though in secret from the first. It had been charming enough in the past despite
the fear that ever made her say him nay. Then yesterday he had won her from her tears and fears,
won her by his brave and tender front, and she had placed her little hands on his breast and
sworn to follow him despite all else when once her father had passed away. And now, twelve
short hours after her fingers had touched him, her fear had caught her by the throat, for they
would kill him surely, her prince, the only joy she had ever known.

So went the night, with desperate distracted plans, and the dumb agony of cold despair. And
in the very early dawn, when men and things cling close to sleep, she heard a gentle stirring--a
muffled footfall on the stairs, and Black Tad stood at her side, a great shadow, questioning her.

"Mistress, what heard you?"

And she answered quick with loathing: "All! all the vile, shameful thing!"

"They are our foes" he muttered moodily.

"Foes! Foes! Nay, none of you are worthy any foe--save the hangman! Ah, God will curse you!
Cruel! Cruel!"

She leaned out of her seat toward him, her panting breath and fierce words lashing him so that
he stepped back a pace, dazed--she was ever such a gentle child.

"What would you, Gwen?"

"What would I! My God!--a fair fight at least. Oh, Tad, and I thought you were a brave man."

"I--I--damme, I, what can I do?--and what does it matter?"

"Matter?--a foul blot!--matter to you and Ced and father--nothing! Murderers! I hate you all!
What has the Cadwallader done? All Wales knows 'twas ever father set on him, not he on father--Always!--always,
I say! Aye, I remember that bloody night at Ebbu Vale. Shame! Shame! And the harrying and burning
at Rhyll, when the mother and her babes perished. No, you weren't there, Tad, but you know
and I know who was. Ah, Tad, she's crying to God--that mother, and holding the little dead
things in her hands, close up to his face. And now you'd murder Llyn, for all he's ever been
for peace."

"Hush-s-sh! not so loud, Gwen."

"Not so loud! not so loud!" she jibed bitterly. "If you fear my poor voice now, what will it
be when all Wales is ringing with this last foul deed?"

Tad breathed hard, then caught her wrists suddenly, crushing them in his fierceness: "Listen,
Gwenith. After all I'm no Tavis--I'm Gruffydd, and I love you."

She shrank away with wide, fearful eyes, her breath coming in little painful gasps.

"What--what do you mean, Tad?"

"I love you, Gwen."

"And----?"

"Well, I'm no Tavis--I'm Gruffydd."

Slowly the meaning which he himself hardly understood dawned on her.

"You'll save them, Tad?"

"Na, na. A fair fight is what you said. 'Tis all I can do."

"And you will?"

"I love you," he persisted stubbornly.

She closed her eyes tightly and leaned back against the wooden shutter, her hands still held
close in his grasp. And she strove to see clearly through the mist of horror and pain. It was
a chance, at least a fighting chance, to save Davy, her prince; the only chance, the only way,
and outside that what else mattered?

Her eyes opened and her lips trembled; then she got her strength back and faced him in the
dim dawn.

"My life for theirs, Tad,--is that it?"

Her eyes and her question shamed him, but he clung to his text doggedly, for he had loved her
long and hopelessly in his wild, stubborn way, and this was his first and only desperate chance.

"I love ye, Gwenith, I love ye!"

There came a stir in the far hall, a long-drawn yawn; and at the sound the girl whispered fiercely:
"Well, it's a bargain; give them fair warning and I'll--I'll do--give you your will. Yes, I
swear it by the dear Saint David. Quick! let me go--no, not now!--Tad, I command you, I--I--Quick!
that's Garm's voice; let me go."

       *        *       *       *       *

"Llyn Gethin! a word in your ear before we ride on."

It was Tad who spoke to the old Cadwallader out in the moonlight. Llyn had answered Daurn's
urgent message for peace, and a few miles north of Llangarth had met Tad. At the words the
old man looked at him curiously, but reined his horse in, while his sons watched the pair suspiciously,
for they were young, their blood and their hate still ran hotly, and save for their father
would have had none of this death-bed reconciliation.

"Well, lad, what is it?" asked Llyn, when they were out of earshot.

"A word of warning, sir--from one who hates you."

"Ah! You were ever a good hater, boy. What is it?"

"'Tis a trick o 'mine, sir--this visit--and you'd better ride back."

"I think not, Tad."

"Well, have your way, but if you ride with me you ride to hell."

"We ride with you, Tad."

"Your blood be on you and your sons, then, Llyn Gethin. You're safe to the stone bridge; after
that fend for yourself. I--I'm a cursed traitor, but, by David, I strike with my house. There,
I've warned you, and God forgive me."

"Amen, lad! Will you shake hands before we ride?"

"No, choke me! I'd sooner ding my dagger in your neck."

So they rejoined the waiting group and rode forward, Tad moodily in advance, Llyn and his sons
in a whispering bunch some yards behind. It had been Tad's own suggestion that he ride forward
and meet the Gethins so they might be lured the more easily to the turn beyond the bridge.
Now they followed on till they saw the white masonry gleaming in the moonlight, and then the
dark form of Tad's horse crossing it, when there was a halt and a grim tightening of belts
and loosening of swords. And as the man on the bridge threw up his arm, Llyn answered the sign
hoarsely: "God keep thee, son of Gruffydd!" he cried. Then as his sons closed in he turned
on them sternly: "Remember, lads! who touches him touches me. Ah! steady now! Forward!"

Even as they clattered on the bridge Tad's challenge and signal to his kinsmen rang out furiously:

"The Wolf! The Wolf and Saint David!"

Then came a rush of horse and steel and wild-eyed men, which but for their preparation would
have swept the Gethins down. As it was they met it fiercely as it came. They had not come unarmed--perhaps
wise old Llyn distrusted such late penitence even as did his sons. Be that as it may, the cry
of "Cadwallader!" rose against "The Wolf!" and bore it back, for even in the first wild rush,
Cedric fell away before a long, swift thrust, and a moment later Rhys, the youngest of the
house went down and died beneath the stamping iron hoofs.

When Llyn saw this he called to stop the fight, but Tad, in a frenzy of horror and remorse,
flung on again with Garth and Levin striking wild beside him. 'Twas a wicked rush, but now
the fight stood five to three, and in the crash Levin slipped and got a dagger in his throat,
while Tad spurred through an open way. Then as he reined and turned, the end was come, for
Garm's shrill death-cry tore the air, and he was left alone.

Thrice he charged like a wounded boar, shouting hoarsely for the house he had betrayed. "The
Wolf! The Wolf! Saint David and the Wolf!"

And ever he found that open way and ever their steel avoided him.

At last he reined in his sweating mare and fell to cursing, his face distraught with agony
and wet with blood and sweat and tears. So he stood, desperate--at bay, and taunted them with
every vileness his furious tongue could frame. Then faltered at last with a great heartbroken
sob, for they sat silent and still and would not give him fight.

On the road at his horse's feet Cedric lay and Rhys, and over yonder in the grass the other
two. He swayed weakly as he looked, then slid from his saddle and stooping, kissed his cousins
one by one, with those grim, silent figures looking on. He broke his sword across his knee--his
father, Gruffydd's sword--and flung the pieces with an oath at Llyn. Then, ere they could guess
his meaning, his dagger flashed, and with a last weak cry for "the Wolf," he fell with the
men of his House.

       *        *       *       *       *

Back at Llangarth the great hall was aglow and Daurn chuckled and waited and plucked at his
beard, till, just past midnight, there came a sudden commotion and the heavy tramp of horses
in the outer court. Then Gwenith ran in white and wild, and kneeling, buried her sobs in the
drapery of the couch. And ere her father could question her a group of sombre figures filled
the doorway.

'Twas a dream--surely 'twas a fearful dream! Or were they ghosts? Yes, that was it; see the
blood on them! He was either dreaming or these were the very dead.

They drew up to the couch, Llyn and his tall, stern sons. Daurn knew them well and strove to
curse them, but the Cadwallader's grave voice hushed him to a sudden fear.

"Peace be with thee, Daurn-ap-Tavis, we come--to bid thee farewell."

Daurn gasped and stuttered, his fingers clawing fearfully while a cold sweat broke out over
his forehead. But ere he found his voice two of Llyn's sons, David and Sion, drew away to the
door, and later, Llewellen and Pen. They came back heavily and laid their burdens gently by
the fire logs and returned, then came again and went. Five times in all. And an awful fear
was in Daurn's eyes as he glared at those still, muffled shapes lying close beside him in the
firelight.

Then Llyn spoke, slow and sorrowfully, as he stooped and one by one drew the face-cloths from
the dead.

"Peace be with thee, Daurn-ap-Tavis; thy son Cedric--bids thee farewell.

"Rhys--bids thee farewell.

"Also Tad, thy brother's son--bids thee farewell."

But the end was come, for Daurn, with a little childish cry, had gone to seek his sons. Llyn
stooped and gently closed the old Wolf's eyes, then with bent head and weary step passed from
the room.

But young Davy stole back softly and knelt near the stricken girl at the foot of the couch.

X

THE WOOING OF BETTINA

A Story of Finance

By W.Y. SHEPPARD

MR. PAUL STRUMLEY stood on the veranda of Mr. Richard Stokes's sumptuous home in the fashionable
suburb of Lawrenceville and faced the daughter of the house indignantly. The daughter of the
house was also plainly perturbed. Their mutual agitation was sharply accentuated by the fresh
calmness of the spring morning, which seemed to hover like a north-bound bird over the wide,
velvety lawn.

"Bettina," announced Mr. Strumley suddenly, "your father is--is----"

"An old goose."

"No, a brute!"

This explosion appeared momentarily to relieve his state of mind. But in his breast there was
still left a sufficiency of outraged dignity to warm his cheeks hotly, and not by any means
without an abundance of cause. Scarcely an hour before he had nervously, yet exultantly, alighted
from his big touring car in front of the Commercial Bank, to seek the president of that institution
in the sanctity of his private office. There, briefly but eloquently, he announced the engagement
of Miss Bettina Stokes to Mr. Paul Strumley, and naïvely requested for the happy young people
a full share of the parental sanction and blessing. And his callow confidence can hardly be
condemned on recalling that he was one of the wealthiest and most popular young swains in the
city. Mr. Stokes, however, did not seem to take this into consideration. On the contrary, he
rose to the occasion with an outburst of disapprobation too inflammatory to be set on paper,
and quickly followed it with a picturesque and uncompromising ultimatum. In the confused distress
of the unexpected Mr. Strumley found himself unable to marshal a single specimen of logical
refutation. He could only retreat in haste, to recover, if possible, at leisure.

But this leisure, the time it had taken him to hurl the machine across town to Bettina, had
proven sadly insufficient. When he rushed up the steps to the veranda, where sat the object
of his affections rocking in beautiful serenity, he was still choking from indignation, and
had found it hard to tell her in coherent sentences that her father had energetically refused
the honor of an alliance with the highly respectable Strumley family.

The grounds, however, on which had been based this unreasonable objection were of all things
under the sun the most preposterous. Mr. Stokes had emphatically declared that his daughter's
happiness was too dear to him to be foolishly entrusted to one who could not even manage his
own affairs, let alone the affairs of a wife, and, presumably later, of a family. Mr. Strumley
was rich at present, so much was readily conceded; but he was not capable himself of taking
care of what a thrifty parent had laid by for him. He in his weak-mindedness was compelled
to hire the brains of a mere substitute, a manager, if you prefer. Should anything happen,
and such things happen every day, where would Mr. Strumley be? And where, pray, would be his
wife and family? In the poorhouse!

"My daughter is too good for a man who cannot manage his own concerns," the irate father had
summed up. "When you have shown yourself capable, my lad, of competing in the world with grown-up
intellects, then there will be time enough for you to contemplate matrimony--and not until
then. Good morning to you, Mr. Strumley."

"And he snapped his jaws together like a vise," recalled Paul, coming out from his gloomy retrospection.

"If he shut them so," and Bettina worked her pretty chin out to its farthest extension, "well,
that means he is like the man from Missouri; you've got to show him before he changes his mind
one iota."

"I ought to have been humping over a desk from the start," regretted Mr. Strumley, feeling
his bulging biceps dolefully. "It's all right stroking a crew, and heaps of fun, too, but it
doesn't win you a wife. Now there's your dad, he couldn't pull a soap box across a bath tub;
but he can pull through a 'deal' I couldn't budge with a hand-spike."

Miss Bettina sighed sympathetically, and smiled appreciatively. She felt deeply for her lover,
and was justly proud of such a capable parent. "Every one does say papa is an excellent business
man," she remarked; "and he certainly can swing some wonderful deals. Only yesterday I accidentally
overheard him telling Mr. Proctor that he held an option--I think that was the word--from Haynes,
Forster & Company on thousands and thousands of acres of timber land in Arkansas. He said it
would expire to-day at two o'clock, but that he was going to buy the land for cash--'spot cash'
he said was what they demanded."

Mr. Strumley smiled ruefully. "And I guess it will be some of my 'spot cash,'" he ruminated.
"I am not saying anything against your father, Bettina, but if it wasn't for such idle good-for-nothings
as myself, who let their money accumulate in his bank, I doubt if he could swing many of these
'big deals.' If we were like he wanted us to be, we'd be swinging them ourselves."

After Mr. Strumley had finished his bit of philosophy, he fell to communing with himself. Apparently
his own wisdom had stirred a new thought within his breast. It had. He was beginning to wonder
what would happen if Bettina's father suddenly found himself bereft of sufficient "spot cash"
to take advantage of this option. Anyone having a second call on same might be fortunate enough
to swing the "big deal"--and profit by it, according to his intentions!

"Paul," Bettina broke in upon his meditations, a little note of hopeful pleading in her voice,
"it might not be too late for you to--to reform?"

Mr. Strumley aroused himself with difficulty, and looked into her bewitching face before replying.
Then: "Maybe you are right," he mused; "at any rate I have an idea." And kissing her thoughtfully,
he strode down the steps toward where encouragingly panted his car.

The car proudly bore Mr. Strumley and his idea to the brand-new offices of a certain young
friend of his who had himself only recently metamorphosed from the shell to the swivel chair.
Mr. Greenlee looked up in mute surprise. But Mr. Strumley ignored it and came to the point
with a rush. Did Mr. Greenlee have twenty thousand dollars in cash to spare? He did? Good!
Would he lend it to Mr. Strumley on gilt-edge collateral? Never mind exclamations; they had
no market value. Eight per cent. did. Then Mr. Greenlee was willing to make the loan? That
was talking business; and Mr. Strumley with the securities would call in two hours for the
cash. That would give Mr. Greenlee ample time in which to get it from his bank--the Commercial.

When outside Mr. Strumley allowed himself to smile. Suddenly this evidence of inward hilarity
broadened into a heartily exploded greeting, as a familiar figure turned the corner and advanced
directly toward him. It was another wealthy customer of the aforesaid bank.

"I was just on my way to your office, Mr. Proctor," Paul announced pleasantly, at the same
time cautiously drawing to one side the customer of the Commercial. "I intend investing heavily
in real estate," he vouchsafed with admirable sang-froid; "and need, right away, in spot cash,
about thirty thousand dollars. Have you got that much to spare at 8 per cent., on first class
security?"

Eight per cent! Mr. Proctor's expression expanded. He made his living by lending money for
much less. If dear Mr. Strumley would call at his office within two hours he should have it
every cent--just as soon as he could get a check cashed at the Commercial.

Next the faithful machine whirled Paul to the rooms of his staid attorney and general manager,
Mr. John Edwards.

That elderly gentleman welcomed him with his nearest approach to a smile. But the young man
was in no mood for an elaborate exchange of exhilarations. Without preface he inquired the
amount of his deposit subject to check in the Commercial Bank. Fifty thousand dollars! A most
delightful sum. He needed it every cent within an hour. Also he wanted from his safe-deposit
box enough A1 collateral to secure loans of twenty and thirty thousand, respectively. But first
would Mr. Edwards kindly call up and get second option on all Arkansas timber lands represented
by Haynes, Forster & Company? Mr. Strumley believed that the first option was held by a local
party. Furthermore he knew it expired to-day; and had reasons to believe that a local party
would not be able to take advantage of it, and he, Mr. Strumley, thought that he could handle
the property to a good purpose.

For the first time Mr. Edwards learned that his young client had a will of his own. After a
few fruitless exhortations he rose to obey, but remarking: "Right much money in these hard
times to withdraw in a lump from the bank." Then, with a sidelong glance at the grave, boyish
face, he added significantly: "Know you would not do anything to jeopardize Mr. Stokes's financial
standing."

"Oh, a bagatelle like that wouldn't embarrass as shrewd and resourceful a business man as he,"
assured Paul breezily.

"Money is pretty tight," mused the lawyer. But he called up Haynes, Forster & Company without
further remonstrances and afterward went out to perform his commissions. Soon Mr. Strumley
lighted a cigar and followed. There would be something doing in the way of entertainment presently
in the neighborhood of the musty old Commercial Bank.

In front of that institution he had the good fortune to meet the town miser, who seldom strayed
far from the portals behind which reposed his hoard. Mr. Strumley halted to liberally wish
the local celebrity an abundance of good health and many days of prosperity. Incidentally he
noted through the massive doors that his three cash-seeking friends were in the line before
the paying teller's window, the lawyer being last and Mr. Greenlee first. When the latter came
out, still busily trying to cram the packages of bills properly in the satchel he carried,
Paul remarked confidentially to his companion:

"Must be something doing to-day. The big guns are drawing all of theirs out."

The old fellow gave a start as the suggestion shot home. Before Paul could nurse it further,
he had sprinted off up the street like mad, chattering to himself about the desirability of
returning immediately with his certificates of deposit.

It is an old adage that no one knows the genesis of a "run on the bank." Maybe Mr. Strumley
was the exception which proves the validity of the rule. At any rate he considered with large
satisfaction the magical gathering of a panic-inoculated crowd, which, sans courage, sans reason,
sans everything but a thirst for the touch of their adored cash, clamored loudly, despairingly,
for the instant return of their dearly beloved.

At last through the meshes of the mad throng appeared the shiny pate of Mr. John Edwards. He
uttered an exclamation of relief at the sight of his calm client.

"Hope you got it before the storm broke?" Mr. Strumley greeted amiably.

"S-s-sh!" cautioned the attorney dramatically. "I was about to go in search of you." Then he
added in even a lower key: "Mr. Stokes asked me to persuade you not to withdraw the money until
he had had a chance to get the flurry well in hand."

"But the money is mine, and I want it now," expostulated the young man.

"Come with me, please, and listen to reason," beseeched the lawyer, drawing him resolutely
in the direction of a side entrance. "It would be a dire misfortune, sir, a calamity to the
community, if the bank were forced to close its doors. So far, however, it is only the small
depositors who are clamoring; but the others will quickly enough follow if you do not let your
fifty thousand remain to help wipe out this first rush. The bank, though, is as sound as a dollar."

In another instant they were through the door, and before Mr. Strumley could reply, for the
second time that morning he stood in the presence of Bettina's father.

"As Mr. Edwards will tell you," explained Paul, unable altogether to suppress his nervousness,
"I hold second option for to-day on large timber tracts in Arkansas, represented by Messrs.
Haynes, Forster & Company. The first option, I was advised, will expire at two o'clock; and
my party was of the belief it would not be closed. It is a big deal, Mr. Stokes,"--Mr. Stokes
winced perceptibly--"and I was extremely anxious to swing it, because--er--well, because it's
my first big venture and much depends on its success."

"Yes," mused Mr. Stokes sadly, "it is quite probable the first option may be allowed to lapse,
and I understand good money is to be made in Arkansas timber." His face had grown a trifle
ashy. "Of course, this being the case, I feel in honor bound, Mr. Strumley, to instantly recall
my request."

Paul gave a gasp of admiration. He was glad Bettina's father was "game." So was Bettina. In
the up-boiling of his feelings he emphatically vetoed the determination of the banker. Indeed,
so well and eloquently did he argue for the retention and use of his funds by the Commercial,
that even the self-effacing man of "deals" could not resist the onslaught. He rose with unconcealed
emotion and grasped the hand of the young man whose generosity would save the credit of the
old financial institution.

Later, flushed with victory, Mr. Strumley returned to the cushions of his touring car; and
the jubilantly chugging machine whizzed him off in the direction where, surrounded by cash,
awaited the 8 per cent. expectations of Messrs. Proctor and Greenlee. Later still he descended
with said cash upon the offices of Haynes, Forster & Company. And even later, after an exhilarating
spin in the country, he arrived safe and blithesome at his well-appointed rooms in the Hotel
Fulton, ready to remove with good soap and pure aqua the stains of mart and road before calling
on Miss Bettina Stokes.

The first thing that attracted his eyes on entering his little sitting room was a neatly wrapped
parcel on the table. On the top of it reclined a dainty, snowy envelope. Mr. Strumley approached
suspiciously. Then he recognized the handwriting and uttered an exclamation of joy. It was
from Bettina.

In the short time he held the missive poised reverently in his hand Paul permitted a glow of
satisfaction to permeate his being. He had done well and was justly entitled to a moment of
self laudation. Mr. Stokes--Bettina's father--would no longer be against him, for who could
not say he was not capable of competing in the world-arena with full-grown, gladiatorial intellects?
He had even successfully crossed blades with Mr. Stokes's own best brand of Damascene gray
matter. And he had won the fray, for the everlasting good and happiness of all parties concerned.
In anticipation he already felt himself thrilling proudly beneath the crown of Bettina's love
and her father's benediction.

The crackle of the delicate linen beneath his grasp brought him sweetly back to the real. What
delicious token could Bettina be sending him? Of course her father had told her all. How happy
she, too, must be! Mr. Strumley broke the seal of the envelope and read:

"MR. PAUL STRUMLEY, City.

"DEAR SIR:

     "I herewith return your letters, photographs, etc. Papa has told me
     all. It was at first impossible to believe you capable of taking such
     a base advantage of my confidence about the Arkansas option; but I am
     at last thoroughly convinced that you incited the run on the bank to
     embarrass poor papa and compel him to let the deal fall into your
     traitorous hands. And the by-play of yours in returning the money you
     did not really need, though it has completely deceived him, has in
     my eyes only added odium to your treachery. I trust that I have made
     it quite clear that in the future we can meet only as strangers.

"BETTINA STOKES."

Mr. Strumley let the letter slip unnoticed through his palsied fingers. He sat down with heavy
stupefaction. So this was the sud-spray of his beautiful bubble? It was incomprehensible! Bettina!
Bettina! Oh, how could she? Where was her faith? No small voice answered from within the depths
of his breast; and Mr. Strumley got clumsily to his feet. He was painfully conscious that he
must do something--think something. But what was he to do? What was he to think? Could he ever
make her understand? Make her believe? At least he could go and try.

Mr. Strumley finished his toilet nervously; and repaired to the home of Bettina, to cast his
hope on the waters of her faith and charity. The butler courteously informed him that she was
"not in." But Mr. Stokes was in the library. Would Mr. Strumley like to see him? Mr. Strumley
thought not.

It was a bad night for Paul. From side to side he tossed in search of inspiration. Day came;
and he rolled wearily over to catch the first beams of the gladsome spring sunshine. From its
torrid home ninety-three million miles afar it hurried to his bedside. It shimmered in his
face and laughed with warm invigoration into the torpid cells of his brain. It awakened them,
filled them with new life, hope--inspiration!

Mr. Strumley leaped from his bed to the bath-tub, and fluttered frolicsomely in the crystal
tide. When he sprang out there was the flush of vigorous young manhood on his skin and the
glow of an expectant lover's ardency in his breast. Everything was arranged satisfactorily
in the space beneath Mr. Strumley's water-tousled hair, wherein sat the goddess of human happiness--reason.

Mr. Strumley, after a hurried stop-over at the office of his astounded charge d'affaires, reached
the Commercial Bank before the messenger boys. While waiting in the balm of the spring morning
for the doors to open he circumnavigated the block nine times--he counted them. Coming in on
the last tack he sighted the portly form of the banker careening with dignified speed around
the corner. Another instant he had crossed the mat and disappeared into his financial harbor.
Mr. Strumley steered rapidly in his wake.

Again he stood in the presence of Bettina's father. This time, however, he was calm. In fact,
the atmosphere about the two men was heavily charged with the essence of good fellowship. Mr.
Stokes held out his hand cordially. The younger man pressed its broad palm with almost filial
veneration. He noted, too, with a slight touch of remorse, that the banker's countenance was
harassed. Evidently his heart still ached for the lost Arkansas timber. Mr. Strumley smiled
philanthropically.

He had something to say to Mr. Stokes, and began to say it with the easy enunciation of one
who rests confident in the sunshine of righteousness. He spoke evenly, fluently. Of course
Mr. Stokes at first might be a trifle perplexed. But please bear with him, hear him through,
then he himself should be the sole judge.

He, Mr. Strumley, did not care a rap--no, not a single rap, for every tree that grew in the
entire state of Arkansas. What he wanted to do was to show Mr. Stokes--Bettina's father--that
he was worth the while. That is, he wanted to demonstrate--it was a good word--to demonstrate
that he had brains in his cranium as good as many another variety that boasted a trade mark
of wider popularity. Had he done it? And if what he had done did not concur with the elements
of high finance, he would like Mr. Stokes--Bettina's father--to tell him what it did concur
with. Now, there was the whole story from its incipiency. And as conclusive proof that he did
not mean to profit by the deal financially, would Mr. Stokes kindly examine those papers?

Mr. Stokes looked at the documents tossed on the desk before him; and saw that they were several
warranty deeds, conveying to Richard Stokes, his heirs and assigns forever, all titles and
claims of all kinds whatsoever in certain therein-after described tracts or parcels of land
in the state of Arkansas, for value received.

Mr. Strumley leaned back and contentedly watched a flush overspread the banker's face. His
automobile waited at the door to whisk him to Bettina, and he was ready to carry on the campaign
there the moment her father had finished his effusions of gratitude. Meanwhile the flush deepened;
and, all impatience to fly to his lady-love, Paul egged on the speech.

"You will note, Mr. Stokes," he volunteered, "that the price is exactly the same you had proposed
paying. At your convenience, of course, you can remit this amount to my attorney, Mr. Edwards."

Mr. Stokes rose slowly. The flush had become apoplectic.

"Mr. Strumley," he began, his large voice trembling, "this trick of yours is unworthy of an
honorable man. Here, sir, take these papers and leave my office immediately."

Mr. Strumley rose also. Like the banker's voice, he, too, was trembling.

"But, sir----" he commenced to expostulate.

"Go!" thundered the father of Bettina.

Dazed, confused by the suddenness of the blast, Paul groped his way through the bank to the
refuge of his car. Mechanically he put one hand on the lever and glanced ahead for obstacles.
Crossing the street, not twenty yards ahead, tripped the most dangerous one conceivable--the
beautiful Bettina herself!

Mr. Strumley's hand fell limply to his knee. Fascinated he watched her reach the curb and with
a little skip spring to the pavement. Then she came straight toward him; but he could see she
was blissfully oblivious of his nearness. Suddenly an odd wave of emotion surged through his
brain. His heart leaped with primitive savagery of love, and every fibre in him rebelled fiercely
against the decrees and limitations of modern courtship. He had failed in the game as governed
and modified by the rules of polite society and high finance. The primogenital man-spirit in
him cried out for its inning. Mr. Strumley, as umpire, hearkened to its clamor.

"Bettina!" he called, as that young lady came calmly abreast of the car, "wait a moment. I
must speak with you."

She started with a half-frightened exclamation; but met his look, at first defiantly, scornfully,
then hesitatingly, faltering as she tried to take another step onward.

"Bettina!" Mr. Strumley's voice vibrated determinedly, "I said I wished to speak with you.
I can explain--everything."

She halted reluctantly, and partly turned. In a moment he was at her side, his hand upon her
arm. His glance had in it all the compelling strength of unadulterated, pristine manhood. She
seemed to feel its potency, and without remonstrance suffered him to lead her toward the machine.

For a moment, for a single moment, Mr. Strumley was exhilaratingly conscious of being borne
aloft on a great wave of victorious gladness. Then the waters of triumph let him down with a shock.

"Bettina!"

At the word they both pivoted like pieces of automata. Mr. Stokes, large and severe, was standing
between the portals of his financial fortification.

"Bettina!" His voice was almost irresistible in the force of its parental summons.

At the sound of it the primeval lover, newly renascent in Mr. Strumley's breast, cowed before
the power of genitorial insistency. Then it came back into its own exultantly.

"Bettina, my darling, get in," he commanded.

She faltered, turned rebelliously, turned again and obeyed.

"Bettina!" The voice of the childless banker faded off in the distance, its last echo drowned
in the full-throated: "Bettina, we are going to be married at once," that broke joyously from
Mr. Strumley's lips. "I have followed the example of the Romans, and taken me a wife from the
Sabines."

Bettina peeped up at him from beneath the dark screens of her lashes. "Then I, like the wise
Sabian ladies, shall save the day for peace and for Rome," she smiled archly.

And the machine laughed "Chug-chug!"

XI

THE JAM GOD

A Tale of Nigeria

By H.M. EGBERT

LIEUTENANT PETERS, of the Royal Nigerian Service, was lying upon the ground face downward,
under a prickly tree. The sun was nearly vertical, and the little round shadow in which he
reclined was interlaced with streaks of hot light. As the sun moved, Peters rolled into the
shade automatically. His eyes were shut, and he was in that hot borderland which is the nearest
approach to sleep at noontide in Nigeria.

The flies were pestering him, and he was thirsty--not with that thirst of the mouth which may
be quenched with a long draught, but with the thirst of the throat that sands and sears. He
felt thirsty all over. He had been thirsty, like this, ever since he struck the bend of the
Niger. What made it worse, every night he dreamed of fruits that were snatched away, like the
food of Tantalus, as he approached to grasp them. Two nights before he had been wandering knee-deep
in English strawberry beds; the night before he had been shaking down limes and oranges from
groves of trees set with green leaves and studded with golden fruit. Once he had dreamed of
a new fruit, a cross between a pear and a watermelon; but when he cut into it he found nothing
but hard, small seeds, with a pineapple flavor, which he detested.

Peters was dreaming now, for he twined his fingers in the long grass and tossed uneasily.

"I'll pick them all," he muttered sleepily. "All mixed together, with ten or twelve pounds
of damp, brown sugar, and boiled into jam."

He woke and felt his teeth for the hundredth time, to note whether any untoward looseness betokened
the advent of the dreaded scurvy. Reassured, he stretched his limbs and rolled over into the
shade of the tree.

"When I get back to a white man's country," he murmured--"when I get home to England what is
it I am going to do? Why, I shall go into a restaurant and order some rich brown soup. Then
I shall have pate de foie gras sandwiches. Then scrambled eggs, chocolate, and muffins buttered
with whipped cream. Then half a dozen cans of jam. I shall either begin with strawberry and
conclude with apricot, or else I shall begin with apricot and wind up with raspberry. It doesn't
matter much; any kind of jam will do except pineapple."

He opened his eyes, brushed away the flies that swarmed noisily round him, took out his hard-tack,
and opened a small can of dried beef. He munched for a while, sipping occasionally from the
tepid water in his canteen. When he had finished he put the can-opener back in the pocket of
his tunic and rose, his face overspread with a look of resolution.

"I believe," he cried, "I believe that I could eat even a can of pineapple!"

He rose, the light of his illusion still in his eyes, and began staggering weakly under the
blazing sun in the direction of his camp. He was weaker than he had thought, and when he reached
the shelter of his tent he sank down exhausted upon the bed. Through the open flap he could
see, five hundred yards away, the round, beehive-shaped huts of the native village and, in
their centre, the square palace of King Mtetanyanga, built of sticks and Niger mud, surrounded
by its stockade, the royal flag, a Turkish bath-towel stained yellow and blue, floating proudly
above.

Lieutenant Peters had been sent by the Nigerian Government along the upper Niger to conclude
treaties with the different kings and sweep them within the British sphere of interest. The
French were out upon a similar errand, for in this region the two nations possessed only a
vague and very indeterminate boundary line. Peters had been successful until he came to the
village of King Mtetanyanga, who had balked at affixing his cross to the piece of mysterious
parchment on the ground that it was unlawful to do so during the festival of the great Ju-Ju,
whose worshipers could be heard wailing and beating tom-toms nightly in some unknown part of
the jungle. What this Ju-Ju fetish was nobody could tell; it had come into the village recently,
from the coast, men whispered; it possessed awful and mysterious potency; was guarded zealously
by some score of priests, who veiled its awful vision; and it was the greatest Ju-Ju for hundreds
of miles along the Niger, tribes from distant regions frequently arriving to sacrifice pigs to it.

However, Lieutenant Raguet, the French commissioner, had been equally unsuccessful in inducing
the dusky monarch to affix his signature to the French treaty, and the ambassadors of the rival
nations were both encamped near the village, waiting for the Ju-Ju festivities to reach their
plethoric conclusion before the king sobered up and attended to business.

Raguet, strolling into his rival's camp that evening, found Peters in his tent, flushed, and
breathing heavily.

"Tcht! tcht! you are seeck," said the Frenchman sympathetically. "That ees too bad. Have you
quinine?"

"Quinine be hanged," cried Peters huskily. "I've taken the stuff until I've floated in it.
There's only one thing can cure me, Raguet. I've been living on crackers and canned beef for
over a month, and I'm pining for jam. Have you got any jam?"

"Dsham, dsham?" repeated Raguet with a puzzled expression.

"Yes, les preserves--le fruit et le sugar, bouilli--you know what I mean."

"Ah, ze preserve!" said the Frenchman, with an expression of enlightenment. "Ze preserve, I
have him not."

"I tell you what, Raguet," said Peters irritably, "I've got to get some jam somewhere or I
shall kick the bucket. I'm craving for it, man. If I had one can of the stuff it would put
me upon my feet instantly, I can feel it. Now it's ten to one I'll be too sick to see the king
after the ceremonies are over, and he'll sign your treaty instead of mine. And I've given him
three opera hats, a phonograph, and a gallon of rum, curse the luck! What did you give him,
Raguet?"

"Me? I give him a umbrella with ze gold embroider," the Frenchman answered.

"My government won't let me give the little kings umbrellas," said Peters in vexation. "It
makes the big chiefs jealous. I say, Raguet," he rambled on, sitting up dizzily, "what is this
Ju-Ju idol of theirs?"

"I know not," said the French lieutenant. "Only ze king and ze priests have seen him. If zey
tell, zey die--ze idol keel zem."

"I suppose they'll be keeping up these infernal tom-toms for another week," grumbled the sick
man, lying back and half closing his eyes from weariness. "Well, I'll have to try to get well
in time."

The Frenchman resisted the impulse to leap back in surprise, but his eyes narrowed till they
were slits in his face. So! This Englishman did not know that this had been the last day of
the sacrifices, that at midnight a hecatomb of pigs was to be killed and eaten in the bush
in honor of the Ju-Ju. Nor that the king, when he had broached and drunk the cask of rum, would
be in a mood to discuss the treaty. Peters evidently was unaware how much his majesty had been
affronted by his failure to present him with an umbrella. La! la! Fortune was evidently upon
his side. All this flashed through the Frenchman's mind in an instant. A solitary chuckle escaped
him, but he turned it into an exclamation of grief, sighed deeply, seated himself upon the
bed, and kissed Peters affectionately on either cheek.

"My Peters, my poor friend," he began, "you must not theenk of leaving your tent for ze next
two, t'ree days. Ze fever, he is very bad onless you receive him in bed. I shall take care of you."

"You're a good fellow, Raguet," said Peters, wiping his face surreptitiously with the backs
of his hands. When his visitor had left he turned over and sank into a half-delirious doze
that lasted until the sun sank with appalling suddenness, and night rushed over the land. Tossing
upon his bed, all through the velvet darkness he was dimly conscious, through his delirious
dreams, of tom-toms beaten in the bush. His throat was parched, and in his dreams he drank
greedily from his canteen; but each time that he awoke he saw it hanging empty from the tent
flap. Presently a large, bright, yellow object rose up in front of him. Greedily he set his
teeth into it; and even as he did so it disappeared, and he awoke, gasping and choking under
the broiling blackness.

"I'll have to take that canteen down to the stream and fill it," he muttered, rising unsteadily
and proceeding toward the bank. To his surprise he found that rain had fallen. He was treading
in ooze, which rose higher and higher until it clogged his footsteps. He struggled, but now
it held him fast, and he was sinking slowly, but persistently, now to the waist, now to the
shoulders. Frantically he thrust his hands downward to free himself, and withdrew them sticky
with--jam! He scooped up great handsful greedily; and even as he raised it to his mouth it
vanished, and he awoke once more in his tent.

He flung himself out of bed with an oath, took down his canteen, and started toward the river.
The noise of the tom-toms was louder than ever, proceeding, apparently, from some point in
the bush a little to the left of the king's palace. Scrambling and struggling through the thorn
thickets, he reached the sandy bed of the stream, filled his water-bottle at a pool, and drank
greedily.

It was that still hour of night when the many-voiced clamor of the bush grows hushed, because
the lions are coming down to drink at the waters. The rising moon threw a pale light over the
land. The tom-toms were still resounding in the bush, but to Peters's distorted mind they took
on the sound of ripe mangoes falling to the ground and bursting open as they struck the soil.
He counted, "one, two, three," and waited. He counted again. There must be thousands of them.
Peters began to edge his way through the reeds in the direction of the sound. After a while
he came to a wall of rocks perpendicular and almost insurmountable. He paused and considered,
licking his lips greedily as the thud, thud continued, now, apparently, directly in front of
him. All at once his eyes, curiously sensitive to external impressions, discovered a little,
secret trail between two boulders. He followed it; a great stone revolved at his touch, and
he found himself inside the sacred groves. He went on, gulping greedily in anticipation of
the feast which awaited him.

Suddenly he stopped short. He had seen something that brought back to him with a rush the realization
of his whereabouts. Seated in the shelter of a cactus tree, not fifty yards away, was King
Mtetanyanga, wearing his three opera hats, one upon another, in the form of a triple crown,
and drinking his own rum with Raguet, under the shade of Raguet's umbrella. Prone at their
feet crouched Tom, the interpreter.

"His Majesty say, 'How you fix him Ju-Ju?'" translated Tom.

"Tell His Majesty, my Ju-Ju stronger than the Englishman's Ju-Ju," answered the Frenchman.
"My Ju-Ju eat up his Ju-Ju. He very sick. If I choose, he die."

"Ugh!" grunted the king, when this explanation was vouchsafed, apparently impressed.

"Tell His Majesty my Ju-Ju stronger than his own Ju-Ju. If he no sign treaty, eat up his Ju-Ju,"
Raguet went on.

A flow of language came from the king's lips.

"His Majesty say, he bring his Ju-Ju, see whose greater," said the interpreter.

Vaguely aware that treachery was impending, but crazed now by the falling mangoes, Peters left
them palavering and followed the trail. All at once he emerged into a tiny clearing and stood
blinking at a fire, round which a group of men--priests, as he knew, from their buffalo horns
and crane feathers--were reclining, hammering upon tom-toms and shouting in various stages
of intoxication. The firelight blinded their eyes. Peters stood still uncertainly. Then his
eyes fell upon a sawed-off tree-trunk, in the hollow of which lay something wrapped in a white
cloth, surrounded with snake-skins. He had come by this secret road into the actual presence
of the great Ju-Ju.

Curiously he inserted his hand, lifted the object out, and examined it. Inside was something
of a strange, yet familiar shape, oval, and flattened at the ends. He lifted it out of its
wrappings, and there, in his hand, he saw a can, bearing the legend:

     GREENAWAY'S BEST JAM.

He looked at it in solemn and holy meditation; then, sitting down, he drew the can-opener from
his tunic and wiped it clean upon his sleeve.

After awhile a babel of sound broke in upon his ears. Men had come running up, brandishing
spears, stopped, flung themselves upon the ground prostrate in front of him. The priests were
there, frantically abasing themselves; Mtetanyanga, his opera hats rolling, unheeded, on the
ground. Their cries ceased; they veiled their eyes. Then from the dust came the feeble tones
of the interpreter.

"His Majesty say, you eat him Ju-Ju--yours greatest Ju-Ju, he want to sign treaty."

But Peters, waving the empty can over his head, shouted:

"I've eaten jam, I've eaten jam! It's pineapple--and I don't care!"

XII

WHEN FATHER WORKED

A Suburban Story

By CHARLTON LAWRENCE EDHOLM

    "H'everybody works but Fadher,
    H'and 'e sets 'round h'all diy----"

THUS in chorus shrilled the infant Cadges like the morning stars singing together, but still
more like the transplanted little cockneys they were.

The placid brow of Mr. Thomas Cadge was darkened with disapproval, he shifted his stubby brier
pipe to the other corner of his mouth, edged a little from his seat on the sunny front stoop
and, craning his neck around the corner of his house, revealed an unwashed area extending from
collarbone to left ear.

"Shet up, you kids!" he barked. "Wot for? Becos I say so, that's why. I don't like that song,
'taint fit for Sunday."

With a soothing consciousness that he had upheld the sacred character of the Sabbath, Mr. Cadge
settled back to the comfort of his sun-bath and smoke. But he had scarcely emitted three puffs
before the piping voice of Arabella Cadge was again wafted to his ears. She sang solo this
time, and the selection was of a semi-devotional nature, more in keeping with the day:

    "Oh fadher, dear fadher, come 'ome wid me now,
    De clock on de steeple strikes----"

"Shet up, drat you!" again commanded her parent. "If I has to get up and go arter you----"

The balance of this direful threat may never be known, for at that moment Mr. Job Snavely,
garbed in the black broadcloth which he wore one day out of seven, paused in front of Mr. Cadge's
door and bade him good morning.

"Mornin'," responded the ruffled father.

"Your little girl is quite a song bird," continued Mr. Snavely, with his usual facility in
making well-meant small-talk more irritating than a hurled brick.

"She sings too much," commented Mr. Cadge, shortly, "I likes people wot knows when to 'old
their tongues."

"Very true, very true!" amiably replied Mr. Snavely, "but for all that, there is nothing sweeter
than the artless babble of babes; I declare it almost brought the tears to my eyes when I heard
them prattling, 'Everybody works but father,' it is so very, very appro----"

Mr. Snavely checked himself abruptly, for the light in the small, green eyes of Thomas Cadge
was baleful, and his square jaw protruded menacingly. The kindly critic of music had a vague
feeling that the subject might be changed to advantage.

"Been to church this morning, I suppose?" he inquired briskly with the assurance of a man just
returning from that duty.

"No I 'asn't," retorted Cadge, "and wot's more the old woman 'asn't, and the kids 'asn't neither.
'Cos why? 'Cos in this 'ere free country of yours, a laboring man can't make a living for 'is
family, workin' 'ard as I does, Sundays, nights, and h'all the time. The missus and the kids
stays from church 'cos their duds ain't fit, and I stays 'ome 'cos I've got to work like a
slave to pay you for seven dollars' worth of spoiled vegetables and mouldy groceries. That's
the reason I works on Sundays, if you've got to know."

"Work on Sundays!" gasped the grocer. "Work! work?" and he stared at the reclining figure of
Mr. Cadge in unfeigned astonishment.

"Yes, work. This 'ere construction company wot's doing the job of grading this vacant block,
employs me to sort of look after things, their shovels, scoops, and the like. A kind of private
police officer, I am," he concluded, drawing himself up a little and puffing into the air.

"And when are you on duty?" asked Mr. Snavely.

"Nights," replied Cadge, "nights and Sundays, when the tools ain't in use."

"I hope they pay you well for it?"

"Ah, but they don't. 'Ow much do you think I get for stayin' awake nights and doin' without
my church on Sunday? Three measly dollars a week and the rent of this 'ere 'ouse, if you can
call it a 'ouse."

It would have been difficult to determine just what name to give the residence of Mr. Thomas
Cadge. It would hardly be called a cottage, though not because it was more spacious than the
name implied; nor was it a piano-box, in spite of the fact that a piano would have fitted snugly
within its walls, for no manufacturer would have trusted a valuable instrument in so flimsy
a shell. It was not a real-estate office, as the sign which decorated its entire front proclaimed
it to be, for through a jagged hole in the window facing the street projected a rusty iron
stovepipe, which was wired to the façade of the building, and emitted the sooty smoke that
had almost totally obscured and canceled the legend, "Suburban Star Realty Syndicate."

Moreover, a litter of tin cans, impartially distributed at the front and back doors, indicated
the domestic use to which this temporary office had been put. A smell of steaming suds that
pervaded the place likewise indicated the manner in which Mrs. Cadge eked out her lord's stipend.
This impression was confirmed by the chorus of irrepressible little Cadges proclaiming:

    "Mother tikes in washin',
    H'and so does sister h'Ann,
    H'everybody works at our 'ouse,
    But my old----"

--a burst of melody which was abruptly checked with a tomato can hurled like a hand-grenade
by their unmusical father.

"Look here, Cadge," said Mr. Snavely, with the air of proprietorship one adopts to hopeless
debtors, "three dollars a week is not going to keep your family, to say nothing of paying up
that seven dollars. I can't carry you forever, you know. Why don't you get a daylight job?"

"Ah, that is easy enough said," protested that injured individual. "'Aven't I tramped the streets
day after day, lookin' for work?"

"Them as 'as a good paying business don't know wot it means to look for a job," pursued Cadge
bitterly.

"Yes they do," asserted the grocer cheerfully. "I was given work at sweeping floors in the
very store I now own. The fact is, I am sorry for you, Cadge, and I have been looking around
to get you a job."

Mr. Cadge seemed depressed.

"And I am glad to say," chirruped Mr. Snavely, "that I have found a small piece of work for
you, which will be worth a dollar and a half a day."

Cadge's brow was still gloomy.

"Of course, it is real work," added his kind-hearted creditor, briskly, "no sitting in the
sun and watching other people's shovels; but a customer of mine, a widow lady, that lives along
Catnip Creek, wants a man to pile up a wall of loose stones to keep her land from washing away
in high water."

Thomas Cadge shook his head with the air of Cæsar virtuously refusing the crown.

"No, no, Snavely, it wouldn't do," he said. "I can see that it would interfere with my present
h'occupation, and I can't afford to risk losing this 'ere job. Supposin' my family was to be
turned out of doors!"

"Nonsense! It will only take you about four days to build the wall, and at one-fifty per day,
that will be six dollars, twice your week's wages right there, and almost enough to pay what
you owe me."

"I am afraid it can't be done, Snavely; the company might not like it; you see, I would be
competing with them, that's their line."

"They wouldn't handle so small a job. You know that, Cadge."

"Yes, but a man can't draw pay for two positions at once; 't ain't honest."

"Why, this is not a regular situation," protested the upright Snavely, who saw his bill still
unpaid; "you could work on it at odd times if you like. She'll pay you by the piece, I am pretty
sure, and you will get your six dollars cash when the wall is done."

The furtive eyes of the hunter of work avoided those of his benefactor. He was pondering a
new excuse when he happened to notice Master Cadge, aged nine, Thomas Cadge, Jr., aged eight,
and Arabella Cadge, whose years were six, busily constructing a fort of cobblestones, and an
idea struck him.

"Very well," he said, loftily waving his pipe, "I'll drop in Monday and talk this over with
you, Snavely. Then if the job suits me I may take it. I don't like to talk business on Sunday,
you know."

Thus rebuked, Mr. Snavely resumed his homeward way.

The following Monday Cadge overslept; Tuesday found him with a headache as a result, which
by Wednesday had settled in a tooth; Thursday he felt so much better that he feared to do anything
which might check his convalescence; Friday was an unlucky day, but so desirous was he of work
that he manfully conquered his superstitious qualms and strolled over to the little shop where
Mr. Job Snavely dealt in groceries and vegetables.

The details regarding the work were furnished with cheerful alacrity, the tradesman going so
far as to accompany his protegé to the home of their patron, Mrs. Pipkin, a withered little
lady who lived with her cats on the bank of the creek.

The work to be performed demanded more brawn than brain and no vast amount of either. All that
was required was to pile up the boulders and cobblestones which littered the bed of the stream,
as a rough, unmortared wall, along the sloping bank of Mrs. Pipkin's property.

It was evident that Mrs. Pipkin herself had not the slightest notion of how much a wall should
cost, as she was ignorant of the two factors which determined it, namely, the wages of day-laborers
and the time required to build the wall; therefore she requested Mr. Snavely, as a man of affairs,
to make the bargain for her.

It was well that she did so, for Mr. Cadge's ideas on the subject were as boundless as hers
were limited. Day wages, he affirmed, ranged from two dollars up for common labor, and as building
a wall was highly skilled labor he thought three and a half or four dollars per diem would
be about right, going on the basis of at least six days of eight hours each.

Mr. Snavely, on the contrary, after looking over the ground declared that four days' steady
work would build a wall running the entire length of the widow's lot. Furthermore, that a dollar
and a quarter a day was fair wages for such employment, while laborers would scramble for the
job at a dollar and a half. As a concession to Mr. Cadge, he was willing to allow him to take
his own time and agreed to pay six dollars when the wall should be completed.

Mr. Cadge waxed indignant and very voluble, while Mr. Snavely was a mild man of few words;
but the simple laborer was no match for a man who made his living by small chaffering. He was
forced to give in, and Saturday morning, bright and early, he appeared on the banks of Catnip
Creek accompanied by Master Cadge, Thomas Cadge, Jr., and Arabella Cadge.

"Daddy's going to give you kids a treat to-day," he announced. "My eye! wot larks we will 'ave.
Nothing to do all day long but play building a stone fort right on the brook, and Daddy will
show you 'ow to build it."

The little Cadges were perfectly charmed at this condescension on the part of their sire, who
seldom acknowledged their presence except with a cuff in passing. They were eager to begin,
and as they had no need to strip their legs, which were always bare, the work proceeded apace.

Cadge, Sr., ensconced himself in the sunniest nook of the bank, and directed his offspring
what stones to select and where to place them, and above all, to make haste, since the enemy
would soon appear to attack the fort.

Before their Saturday holiday was over, the children had discovered that their father was a
strenuous playfellow. In vain they suggested fishing, hunting Injuns, or gathering wild flowers;
they had set out to build a fort on Catnip Creek, and build it they must.

They entertained hopes of sneaking off alone when they should go home for lunch, but Mr. Cadge
had provided for this contingency. His wife appeared at noon with slices of bread and butter
for the Cadgelings, to which was added a cold beefsteak and a bucket of beer for the support
of their house. Having already lunched at home, she was permitted to lay a tier of heavier
stones along the wall while waiting for her family to finish the repast.

It was an arduous day for the tribe of Cadge, excepting, of course, its head. Not until the
first star came out and the owls began to hoot along the Catnip did he declare himself satisfied
with the day's work and proceed homeward to supper. Widow Pipkin's wall was half finished.

Not until Saturday was the patient father able to enlist once more the services of his offspring,
for, "What if they are your own kids!" retorted Mrs. Cadge from her wash-board. "I've rubbed
my 'ands raw to give 'em the eddication you and me lacks, and to school they go. You build
that wall yourself, or wait until the week's end for your pay."

The former alternative was not to be thought of, and the Widow Pipkin wondered mildly whether
the half finished wall was ever to be completed.

But Saturday at dawn Cadge once more appeared, driving before him three tear-stained and reluctant
Cadgelets. They had inherited part of their father's disposition in regard to real work, likewise
his unwillingness to be imposed upon. Constructing fortifications along the Catnip was well
enough for one Saturday, but their backs still ached from their exertions, and they had only
disdain for the restricted paternal imagination which suggested that this time they build stone
castles.

Their sire waxed eloquent over the art of castle building and the sport of imprisoning ogres
in them, but was finally compelled to assume the attitude of an ogre himself, and threatened
to skin them alive if they did not do as they were bid.

It was a long, hard day for the whole Cadge family. The little Cadges worked like galley-slaves
in fear of the lash; their mother, out of pity for them, laid two tiers of cobbles when she
came at noon, and even Cadge himself was tempted on one or two occasions to descend from his
nook and lend a hand, but restrained himself.

Again the owls hooted along the stream and bullfrogs croaked from the reedy places. Cadge knocked
the dottle out of his pipe and arose, stretching his short, muscular limbs, which had become
cramped from sitting still so long.

"Run along 'ome, kiddies," he said, "and tell the old woman not to wait supper for me. There's
a man down town as wants to see me about a job. I'll 'ave a bite with 'im."

The little Cadges disappeared in the twilight and their father presented himself at the Widow
Pipkin's door to receive his hard-earned wages.

"Oh, dear me! I can't pay you to-night," answered Mrs. Pipkin. "I never keep any money in the
house."

Cadge grumbled something about, a check would do. He was pretty sure that the barkeeper at
Spider Grogan's place would cash it.

"Oh, but mine is a savings account, and I will have to go down to the bank myself and get the
money; but, never mind, you shall have it first thing Monday morning."

The thirsty man could find no solution to this problem and, although he urged the Widow Pipkin
to think of a way, as his "missus needed the medicine something orful," that kind-hearted old
lady could suggest nothing more to the point than going at once with a mustard poultice to
the sufferer.

Old women are so set in their notions that the anxious husband was a full half hour dissuading
her, and, when he reached home with both hands in his empty pockets, Mrs. Cadge was washing
the dishes.

"Did the man give you a job?" inquired his wife brightly.

"Wot man? Wot job? Where's my supper?" snapped Cadge. Then, as the ingenious ruse occurred
to him, a flood of language rose to his lips and would not be dammed, though everything else was.

"Gone and hogged all the supper, did you!" he growled. "H'it's a nice state of affairs, when
a man comes 'ome from a 'ard day's work to a h'empty table."

"But it was such a little steak, Tom," urged his wife, "and the children were so hungry that
I let them finish it."

There was no money in the house, and Snavely, the only credit grocer, had closed his shop,
so Mr. Cadge's supper that night was bread and cheese without kisses.

Sunday was a long-remembered day of misery for Cadge's wife and children, who played the scapegoat
for Mr. Snavely and whipping-boy for Mrs. Pipkin.

Monday morning the head of the house arose early and, before Mrs. Pipkin had finished her beauty
sleep, that hard-working man was at the door demanding his pay. An hour was all the time she
required for dressing. Mr. Cadge wished he had broken his fast before leaving home.

"Really, I don't know whether I ought to pay you," replied Widow Pipkin when she finally answered
his last, desperate ring. "Mr. Snavely made the bargain, and I should like to have him see
the work before settling with you."

She jingled some silver in her plump chain purse as she spoke.

Aha, the widow had deceived him! It was eight o'clock, the bank would not open for an hour,
she had had the money in the house all the time. The deceitfulness of women!

Mr. Cadge's blood rose to his head. His little green eyes smouldered. Fortunately for the widow,
Mr. Snavely drove up at that moment on his delivery wagon, and cheerfully agreed to appraise
the work.

"Oh, come now, Cadge, my man, you don't call that a finished job, I hope? Why, it is three
foot short at each end and lacks a tier at the top. You had better pitch in for an hour or
two and make a fair job of it, and then you'll get your money."

"Wot do you call a fair job, I should like to know?" replied the heated Cadge; "look at them
'ere boulders, as I fished out of the h'icy water at peek o' day! Look at all them little stones,
h'every one of them as cost me backache and sweat. H'if that job ain't worth six dollars it
ain't worth six cents."

"Mebbe so, mebbe so, my good man," responded the grocer, genially, "but whatever it's worth,
I don't pay for a job until it's finished."

At this point Cadge's torrent of eloquence swept away all punctuating pauses and he became
slightly incoherent, but the drift of his harangue was that because he had worked like a slave
and finished the wall in two days they wanted to rob him of his money. "I'll 'ave the six dollars
for my work, or I'll 'ave the lor on you," he concluded.

The amiable but tactless Snavely saw a happy solution of the problem. "Never mind, Mrs. Pipkin,"
he said, "there shall be no lawsuit. You pay me the six dollars, and I will write Cadge a receipt
for the seven dollars he owes me. I lose a dollar that way, to be sure, but then it is just
the same as finding six."

"Ho! that's your game is it?" snarled Cadge, gasping with indignation. "That's 'ow you two
plot against a poor 'ard-workin' man with a family, to beat him out of 'is pay. H'it's a put-up
job, that's wot h'it is! But you don't get the best of Tom Cadge that way. I'll 'ave a h'orficer
'ere if I don't get my money, you bloomin' old plotters, you!"

"Yes, you had better call an officer," agreed Mr. Snavely. "I saw one around the corner as
I passed; the same one your brats were pelting from behind a fence last week."

Mr. Cadge tacked adroitly. "No, I ain't going to spend my money with the loryers, as'd want
twelve dollars to get you back six. I'll tear down the wall, that's wot I'll do. If I don't
get my pay the loidy don't get her wall, and you can tike your measly job and give it to some
poor man wot needs it."

Mr. Snavely had one foot on the wheel and swung lightly into his cart. "Have it your own way,
Cadge," he responded cheerfully. "You can finish the wall and get your six dollars cash, or
you can leave it as it stands and take my receipt for seven, or you can tear it down and have
your labor for your pains; but mind, if the police catch you destroying property, you will
get a month in the chain gang."

"I don't care if I get sixty days!" screamed the outraged laborer. "The city can look after
my missus and the kids if their nateral provider is took from them. That wall is comin' down!
I'm h'only a workin'-man, and I don't mind bein' spit on once in a while, but I won't stand
for it bein' rubbed in."

It was a sultry June day, the first of the summer vacation, and toward noon Mrs. Cadge set
out to take her husband a bite of lunch. The little Cadges accompanied her, eager to exhibit
the noble castle which they had completed on Catnip Creek. When they came to that charming
stream, their eyes flew open in amazement and their jaws dropped.

"Why, mamma, look at daddy!" they cried in unison. "Daddy's workin'!"

Incredible though it seemed, it was true indeed. Father worked. Mrs. Cadge wondered whether
she, too, was to have a vacation, after her years of drudgery.

Cadge worked furiously, his rage uncooled by the waters of the Catnip which flowed through
his shoes. He had discarded coat, vest, and hat, and was hurling rocks with the strength of
a maddened giant, clear across the stream. What splendid muscles he had!

A tier or two of Mrs. Pipkin's wall was already down. The telephone within her cottage was
ringing madly.

Even as the Cadgelings watched their parent sweating at his toil, a blue-coated figure ran
swiftly down the bank, caught the hard-working man by the collar, and firmly led him away to
where steady work awaited him.

Mrs. Cadge watched him go with mingled feelings. She had seen him depart thus before, and remembered
how much easier it was that month to feed four mouths instead of five. Besides, the exercise
on the rock pile would do him good, poor man. A night-watchman's position was so confining.

Mr. Snavely had driven up to the curb, and the Widow Pipkin ran out all of a flutter. They
sympathetically related to Mrs. Cadge the events of the morning which had led to her husband's
arrest.

"And there was only an hour's work to be done on the job," said Mr. Snavely judicially.

"I would gladly pay six dollars cash to have it just as it was this morning," added the tremulous
Widow Pipkin, "and I'd make it ten if it were done as Mr. Snavely says."

"And I'd still be willing to write a receipt for the full seven dollars for six dollars cash,"
interposed that astute philanthropist.

Mrs. Cadge's shrewd, birdlike eyes were half closed in mental computation; ten dollars for
the wall and one dollar discount on the grocery bill, that would make eleven dollars clear.

"Come along, kiddies," she said, "you and me will pitch in and finish that wall to the queen's
taste in an hour or two!" And she did.

Eleven dollars clear, and the watchman's pay still going on, Cadge on the rock pile, hence
the biggest mouth of the family fed by the city. Indeed, indeed, the little Cadges were not
the only ones who enjoyed a vacation when father worked!