THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

Vol. 17, No. 496.] SATURDAY, June 27, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

       *       *       *       *       *

THE

MIRROR

OF

LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT,

AND

INSTRUCTION:

CONTAINING

ORIGINAL ESSAYS;

HISTORICAL NARRATIVES; BIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIRS; SKETCHES OF SOCIETY; TOPOGRAPHICAL DESCRIPTIONS;
NOVELS AND TALES; ANECDOTES;

SELECT EXTRACTS

FROM

NEW AND EXPENSIVE WORKS;

POETRY, ORIGINAL AND SELECTED;

THE SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS;

DISCOVERIES IN THE ARTS AND SCIENCES;

USEFUL DOMESTIC HINTS;

&C. &C. &C.

       *       *       *       *       *

VOL. XVII.

       *       *       *       *       *

LONDON:

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY J. LIMBIRD, 143, STRAND,

(NEAR SOMERSET HOUSE.)

1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

PREFACE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Each of our semi-anniversaries calls for a variation in our thankful expressions to the public
for their continued patronage. Yet we are prone to confess ourselves puzzled to ring the changes
even on so pleasurable a theme as gratitude--although it is equally delightful to the donor
and receiver. We will, however, persevere, to keep our friendship with the public in constant
repair, and to gain new friends; for it is in the course of a periodical work as elsewhere
in the world: "if a man does not make new acquaintance as he advances through life, he will
soon find himself left alone." There is, moreover, something agreeable in writing a preface:
it yields a second crop of pleasurable associations: and the brief retrospect of six months
breaks up the tedium which may at some time or other be attached to literary pursuits. We collect
the six-and-twenty sheets into a volume, and turn over their leaves until they almost become
new acquaintance: some of their columns point to current events, and thus by a little aid of
memory, make an outline chronology of the half-year; and, above all, if we have pleased the
reader, we, at the same time, enjoy the self-satisfaction of having been employed to so gratifying
an end. We like too the spirit of acquaintanceship which these prefacings, meetings, and greetings
tend to keep up, although there may be persons who impatiently turn over a preface as the majority
of an audience at the theatre rise to leave as soon as the last scene of a pantomime is shown.

       *       *       *       *       *

The contributions of Correspondents abound in this volume. Their subjects belong to that class
of inquiry which is useful and entertaining, and their research is amusing without dry-as-dust
antiquarianism: this is a serviceable feature, inasmuch as it is conversational; and we know
"what is said upon a subject is to be gathered from a hundred people." A single article may
occasionally appear trifling; but, take the sheet, and its bearing is obvious; and in the volume
still more so. Our Correspondents only enjoy the reward of seeing their papers in print: esto
perpetua is the only charm we use; and our poetical friends would gladly accept the perpetua
for the

  Nods, and becks, and wreathed smiles

of the heroines of their verse.

SEVENTEEN is a promising time in life: it is redolent of youth, and hope, and joy; may not
the context hold good in art and literature. Strictly speaking, we are but in our ninth year,
although our volumes number seventeen. If we continue to partake as largely of the gale of
public favour as hitherto, we shall not despair of an evergreen old age. We know the value
of this favour, and shall strive to maintain it accordingly. It is to us like the Queen of Chess:

  Lose not the Queen, for ten to one,
  If she be lost, the game is gone.

Sterne, who delighted in large type and blanks, would probably call this, as he did all life,
"a mingled yarn;" and so we have done.

143, Strand, June 27, 1831.

       *       *       *       *       *

MEMOIR

OF

BARON BROUGHAM AND VAUX,

LORD HIGH CHANCELLOR OF GREAT BRITAIN, &C.

       *       *       *       *       *

  His purpose chose, he forward pressed outright,
  Nor turned aside for danger or delight.--COWLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

The illustrious subject of this Memoir is the eldest son of a gentleman of small fortune, but
ancient family, in Cumberland,[1] His mother was the daughter of a Scotch clergyman; in the
mansion of whose widow, on the Castle Hill of Edinburgh, the father of Lord Brougham lodged
when prosecuting his studies at the University there. Chambers, the laborious topographical
historian of the Modern Athens, says that Lord Brougham was born in St. Andrew's Square, in
that city, though this has been disputed. The family of the late Mr. Brougham consisted of
four sons:--Henry John, an extensive wine-merchant in Edinburgh, who died at Boulogne, about
two years since; James, the Chancery Barrister, who formerly sat with Baron Abercromby in parliament,
for Tregony, and sits at present for Downton, Wilts; and William, who has recently been appointed
a Master in Chancery, and elected Member for the Borough of Southwark.

In early life Mr. Brougham was called to the bar of the Supreme Court of Edinburgh, where he
practised for some time, and with considerable success, if we may judge from his frequent employment
in Scotch appeals. His selection, too, on the part of persons charged with political offences
to conduct their defence, would imply him to be well read in the institutions of his country.
It was while at the Scotch Bar that, in conjunction with the late Mr. Francis Homer and Mr.
Jeffrey, he planned and established the Edinburgh Review, of which he was for many years a
most able and constant supporter. About this time also he became a member of the celebrated
Debating Society at Edinburgh.

Although professionally a lawyer, Mr. Brougham's ambition soon became directed to the senate;
and, observes a clever contemporary, "it is an instructive example of the working of our admirable
system of representation, that, up to the 16th of October last, Henry Brougham, the greatest
orator and statesman that perhaps ever enlightened Parliament, was indebted for his seat to
the patronage of a borough-holding Peer." He first took his seat for Camelford, a borough in
the interest of the Duke of Bedford. In 1812, he contested Liverpool with Mr. Canning, and
failed; and, in the same year, he was nominated for the Inverkeithing district of Boroughs,
and failed there also. He was, however, subsequently returned for Winchelsea, in Sussex. During
the discussions in parliament respecting the Princess of Wales, Mr. Brougham, we believe, was
honoured with the confidence of her Royal Highness, and espoused her cause with much effect.
His earliest efforts as a British senator were likewise distinguished by the same regard to
the rights of individuals, and the liberties of the country, which he has uniformly manifested
to the present time. Nor was he then less firm in opposition to what he deemed the encroachments
of the crown, and the extravagances and abuses of the government, than he has since proved.
His bold denial of the sovereign's right to the droits of the Admiralty, in 1812, will not
soon be forgotten.

In the early part of 1816, Mr. Brougham brought forward a motion for preserving and extending
the liberty of the press, for which the ministers, particularly Lord Castlereagh (who knew
well how to use "the delicious essence,") passed on him the highest encomiums; and miscalculating
the firmness of the bepraised, some persons thought the minister's eulogy a lure for the member's
vote; but the result proved that Mr. Brougham was above all temptation. In the same year he
made a tour on the continent: in France he was the object of much attention; and he afterwards
visited the residence of the Princess of Wales, in Italy, as was supposed, on a mission of
some importance.

In this year also, Mr. Brougham delivered two speeches in parliament, which are memorable for
the truth of their prospective results. In one of them, on the treaty of the Holy Alliance,
occurs the following almost prophetic passage: "I always think there is something suspicious
in what a French writer calls, 'les abouchemens des rois.' When crowned heads meet, the result
of their united councils is not always favourable to the interest of humanity. It is not the
first time that Austria, Russia, and Prussia have laid their heads together. On a former occasion,
after professing a vast regard for truth, religion and justice, they adopted a course which
brought such misery on their own subjects, as well as those of a neighbouring state--they made
war against that unoffending country, which found little reason to felicitate itself on its
conquerors being distinguished by Christian feelings. The war against Poland, and the subsequent
partition of that devoted country, were prefaced by language very similar to that which this
treaty contains; and the proclamation of the Empress Catherine, which wound up that fatal tragedy,
had almost the very same words."--The second speech to which we allude was on the abuses of
ancient charitable institutions. Speaking of schools, the funds of which were landed and freehold
property, Mr. Brougham remarked, "In one instance, where the funds of the charity are £450,
one boy only is boarded and educated. In another case, where the revenue of the establishment
is £1,500. a year, the appointment of a master lying in the lord of the manor, that gentleman
gave it to a clergyman, who out of this sum paid a carpenter in the village £40. for attending
the school. The funds in the country, applicable to the education of the poor, cannot," he
added, "be less than one hundred and fifty thousand pounds." The result of these and similar
representations was the appointment of a committee to investigate the state of the various
charities of the kingdom, and inquire into the application of their funds; from which measure
great public good has already resulted.

In 1818, Mr. Brougham was invited to become a candidate for the county of Westmoreland, where
his family have been settled for the last sixty or seventy years: he could not, however, withstand
the powerful influence of the Lowther family, and thus lost his election. He made another effort,
at the dissolution of parliament, consequent upon the death of George III., but was again unsuccessful;
and a third time in 1826.

We are now approaching one of the most eventful eras of Mr. Brougham's parliamentary life:
we mean his intrepid defence of the late Queen. Mr. Brougham was the first to dispatch M. Sicard,
the old and faithful servant of the Queen, with the intelligence of the death of George III.
The Queen immediately replied to Mr. Brougham, that she was determined to return to England;
and on February 22, 1820, Mr. Brougham received from Lord Castlereagh an assurance that no
indignity should be offered to her Majesty while abroad. Mr. Brougham was now appointed her
Majesty's Attorney-General, on which occasion he was admitted within the bar, and assumed the
silk gown, which was subsequently taken from him, but restored.

The Queen having arrived at St. Omer, on her way to England, Lord Hutchinson, on the part of
the King, was despatched to prevent, by a liberal offer, her leaving the continent. Mr. Brougham
consented to accompany his lordship, willing to co-operate in the purpose yet bound by office
and by friendship to secure for the queen the best possible terms. The Queen, however, was
resolved, and while the deputies were exchanging notes, her Majesty sailed for England, and
proceeded to London amidst all the demonstrations of popular triumph. Mr. Brougham, with Mr.
Denman, on behalf of the Queen, next met the Duke of Wellington and Lord Castlereagh, on behalf
of the King, to propose measures for an amicable arrangement, but the insertion of her Majesty's
name in the Liturgy being refused, the negotiation failed. The struggle was now fast approaching.
The notable green bag was laid on the table of the House of Commons, and Mr. Brougham commenced
by deprecating a hasty discussion. The next day the minister developed the projected prosecutions
of the government; Mr. Brougham replied, and concluded by demanding for the Queen a speedy
and open trial. We need only advert to his subsequent reply to the note of Lord Liverpool,
to the speech of Mr. Canning, and to the conciliatory proposition of Mr. Wilberforce. Then
followed his speech at the bar of the House of Lords against the intended mode of investigation--his
speech against the bill of Pains and Penalties--his reply to the crown counsel, and afterwards
to the Lord Chancellor--and finally his defence of the Queen against the several charges. His
defence, it will be remembered, lasted nearly two days, and Mr. Brougham, amidst profound silence,
concluded one of the most eloquent speeches ever heard within the walls of parliament--with
this pathetic appeal:--

"My lords, I call upon you to pause. You stand on the brink of a precipice. You may go on in
your precipitate career--you may pronounce against your Queen, but it will be the last judgment
you ever will pronounce. Her persecutors will fail in their objects, and the ruin with which
they seek to cover the Queen, will return to overwhelm themselves. Rescue the country; save
the people, of whom you are the ornaments; but severed from whom, you can no more live than
the blossom that is severed from the root and tree on which it grows. Save the country, that
you may continue to adorn it--save the crown, which is threatened with irreparable injury--save
the aristocracy, which is surrounded with danger--save the altar, which is no longer safe when
its kindred throne is shaken. You see that when the church and the throne would allow of no
church solemnity in behalf of the Queen, the heartfelt prayers of the people rose to heaven
for her protection. I pray heaven for her; and I here pour forth my fervent supplications at
the throne of mercy, that mercies may descend on the people of this country richer than their
rulers have deserved; and that your hearts may be turned to justice."

The result need scarcely be alluded to. Men of all parties, however discordant might be their
opinions upon the point at issue, acknowledged and admired the intrepidity and splendid talents
of Mr. Brougham on this memorable occasion.

Brilliant as has been the parliamentary career of Mr. Brougham from this period, our limits
will allow us only to advert to a few of its brightest epochs. Whether advocating the rights
and liberties, and a spirit of social improvement, at home, or aiding the progress of liberal
opinion abroad, we find Mr. Brougham exercising the same uncompromising integrity and patriotic
zeal. Spain, in 1823, became a fitting subject for his masterly eloquence. His remarks on the
French government, on April 14, in the House of Commons, on the consideration of the policy
observed by Great Britain in the affairs of France and Spain, will not soon be forgotten: "I
do not," said Mr. Brougham, "identify the people of France with their government; for I believe
that every wish of the French nation is in unison with those sentiments which animate the Spaniards.
Neither does the army concur in this aggression; for the army alike detests the work of tyranny,
plunder, cant, and hypocrisy. The war is not commenced because the people or the army require
it, but because three or four French emigrants have obtained possession of power. It is for
such miserable objects as these that the Spaniards are to be punished, because they have dared
to vindicate their rights as a free and independent people. I hope to God that the Spaniards
may succeed in the noble and righteous cause in which they are engaged."

In 1824, (June 1), we find Mr. Brougham in the House of Commons, moving an address to the King,
relative to the proceedings at Demerara against Smith, the missionary; but, after a debate
of two days, the motion was negatived.[2]

During the period of Mr. Canning's ministry, his liberality gained Mr. Brougham's support:
this is the only instance of Mr. Brougham's not being opposed to the minister of the day; and,
observes a political writer, "he has been as much above the task of drudging for a party as
drudging for a ministry."

The year 1828 is a memorable one in Mr. Brougham's parliamentary life. Early in the session,
upon the debate of the battle of Navarino, we find him expressing his readiness to support
the ministry as long as the members who composed it showed a determination to retrench the
expenditure of the country, to improve its domestic arrangements, and to adopt a truly British
system of foreign policy. It was on this occasion that Mr. Brougham used the expression which
has since become so familiar--"The schoolmaster is abroad." On Feb. 7, Mr. Brougham brought
forward a motion on the State of the Law, in an elaborate speech of six hours delivery. The
debate was adjourned to February 29, when Mr. Brougham's motion, in an amended shape, was put
and agreed to, requesting the King to cause "due inquiry to be made into the origin, progress,
and termination of actions in the superior courts of common law in this country;" and "into
the state of the law regarding the transfer of real property." Even the heads of this speech
would occupy one of our pages. A passage much quoted at the time of its publication is a good
specimen of Mr. Brougham's forcible style of illustration: "He was guilty of no error--he was
chargeable with no exaggeration--he was betrayed by his fancy into no metaphor, who once said,
that all we can see about us, King, Lords, and Commons, the whole machinery of the State, all
the apparatus of the system and its varied workings, end simply in bringing twelve good men
into a box." On March 6, Mr. Brougham spoke in support of Mr. Peel's motion for Catholic Emancipation,
which he described as going "the full length that any reasonable man ever did or ever can demand;
it does equal justice to his Majesty's Roman Catholic subjects; it puts an end to all religious
distinctions; it exterminates all civil disqualifications on account of religious belief. It
is simple and efficacious; clogged with no exceptions, unless such as even the most zealous
of the Catholics themselves must admit to be of necessity parcel of the measure."

In the session of 1829, Mr. Brougham explained the proceedings of the Commissioners appointed
to inquire into Public Charities, who, it appeared, had examined sixteen counties, and partially
examined ten; altogether amounting to more than 19,000 charities, being more than half the
number in the whole kingdom.

In 1830, Mr. Brougham supported Lord John Russell's plan for Parliamentary Reform, as an amendment
to a motion of Mr. O'Connell; in which Mr. Brougham opposed universal suffrage and vote by
ballot. In the same week also, he spoke at some length on the punishment of Forgery by death.
The opinions which he expressed, Mr. Brougham said, he had learned from his great and lamented
friend, Sir Samuel Romilly; and he concluded by expressing his hope that he should live to
see the day when this stain should be removed from our statute-book. In the following month
Mr. Brougham brought in a bill for local jurisdictions in England, for diminishing the expense
of legal proceedings. On June 24, Mr. Brougham spoke at great length upon the inadequacy of
the ministerial bill for the reform of the Court of Chancery. On July 13, he moved for the
abolition of West India Slavery, and expatiated at great length and with extreme earnestness--first,
on the right of the mother country to legislate for the colonies, and next on the legal and
moral nature of slavery.

Upon the dissolution of parliament, consequent upon the death of George IV., Mr. Brougham was
invited to the representation of the extensive and wealthy county of York. In his speech to
the electors he alluded to Parliamentary Reform, a revision of the Corn Laws, and the extinction
of Colonial Slavery, as three grand objects of his ambition; and concluded by thus explaining
his becoming a candidate--"because it would arm him with an extraordinary and a vast and important
accession of power to serve the people of England." It need scarcely be added, that his election
was secured; his return was free of all expense: indeed, never was triumph more complete.[3]

Soon after the assembling of the new parliament, Mr. Brougham, in connexion with the topic
of the recent revolutions on the continent, and parliamentary reform in this country, concluded
an interesting debate by saying--"He was for reform--for preserving, not for pulling down--for
restoration, not for revolution. He was a shallow politician, a miserable reasoner, and he
thought no very trustworthy man, who argued, that because the people of Paris had justifiably
and gloriously resisted lawless oppression, the people of London and Dublin ought to rise for
reform. Devoted as he was to the cause of parliamentary reform, he did not consider that the
refusal of that benefit, or, he would say, that right, to the people of this country (if it
were a legal refusal by King, Lords, and Commons, which he hoped to God would not take place)
would be in the slightest degree a parallel case to any thing which had happened in France."

Mr. Brougham's elevation to the exalted station which he now fills need be related but briefly,
since the particulars must be fresh in the recollection of our readers. Upon the resignation
of the Wellington ministry--with the title of BARON BROUGHAM AND VAUX, he took the oaths as
Lord Chancellor, November 22, and his seat in the Chancery Court on November 25, 1830.

In the House of Lords, in reply to some censurable observations on his acceptance of office
which had been made elsewhere, his lordship explained his motives with great candour. After
an allusion to his difficulty in resigning his high station as a representative for Yorkshire,
Lord Brougham said, "I need not add, that in changing my station in parliament, the principles
which have ever guided me remain unchanged. When I accepted the high office to which I have
been called, I did so in the full and perfect conviction, that far from disabling me to discharge
my duty to my country--far from rendering my services less efficient, it but enlarged the sphere
of my utility. The thing which dazzled me most in the prospect which opened to my view, was
not the gewgaw splendour of the place, but because it seemed to afford me, if I were honest--on
which I could rely; if I were consistent--which I knew to be matter of absolute necessity in
my nature; and if I were as able as I knew myself honest and consistent--a field of exertion
more extended. That by which the Great Seal dazzled my eyes, and induced me to quit a station
which till this time I deemed the most proud which an Englishman could enjoy, was, that it
seemed to hold out the gratifying prospect that in serving my king I should be better able
to serve my country."

Already has the official elevation of Lord Brougham been attended with manifest advantages,
and promises of still greater benefits to the nation. Only such as are accustomed to the cares
of office can form but a faint idea of the perplexities which beset the Lord Chancellor on
the recent dissolution of parliament; yet in this arduous scene Lord Brougham is believed by
all but the bitterest of his political opponents, to have comported himself with becoming equanimity.
A political contemporary observes, upon his recent appointment--"There is no instance in modern
times of an elevation marked with the same characters. Lord Brougham had never before been
in office; he had passed through none of the degrees which for the most part, lead to the proud
eminence where he now stands. We have had learned Chancellors, and political--or, we would
rather say, politic Chancellors--but never before Lord Brougham (with, perhaps, the exception
of Erskine), have we had what may be justly called a popular Chancellor. * * The consideration
which he disdained to accept from party or from power in the House, his conduct has won from
the great mass of his countrymen out of it. We speak the plain and simple truth when we say--and
that not for the first time--that at no period of our history since the era of the Commonwealth
has any one Englishman contrived to fix so many eyes upon him as Lord Brougham has for the
last few years."[4]

Of Lord Brougham's qualifications as a barrister we have already spoken. To the hearing of
appeals in the House of Lords, an important section of the public business, his Lordship brings
qualifications not possessed by any of his predecessors. Seven years' practice at the Scotch
bar, and a very extensive employment in appeals from that country (for he has been engaged
in almost every case of importance for the last ten years) have made him familiar with the
machinery of the law on which his decisions bear; and he therefore undertakes his judicial
task with professional confidence.

Besides contributing to the Edinburgh Review, as we have noticed, Lord Brougham is the author
of several papers in Nicholson's Journal, and in the Transactions of the Royal Society, of
which his Lordship is a distinguished member. The chief entire work which bears his name is
entitled, "An Inquiry into the Colonial Policy of the European States," 2 vols. 8vo. 1828;
and a masterly pamphlet "On the State of the Nation," which has run through many editions.
Several of his speeches have likewise been published.

It is, however, in connexion with Public Education, that the pen of Lord Brougham has been
more extensively employed. His zealous co-operation with Dr. Birkbeck, and other patriotic
men of talent, in the establishment of Mechanics' Institutions in the year 1824, must be gratefully
remembered by thousands who have enjoyed their benefits; and, for the advantage of the London
Mechanics' Institution, were republished from the Edinburgh Review, his excellent "Practical
Observations upon the Education of the People, addressed to the Working Classes and their Employers."--The
twentieth edition of this pamphlet is now before us, and from its conclusion, to show the practical
utility of the author's suggestions, we quote the following:--

