That brings us to the Publican. With all that God says about the human heart in our minds,
we can see that his confession of sin was simply a justifying of God, an admission that what
God said of him was true. Perhaps like the Pharisee, he used not to believe that what God said
about man was really true of him. But the Holy Spirit has shown him things in his life which
prove God right, and he is broken. Not only does he justify God in all that he has said, but
he doubtless justifies God in all the chastening judgments God has brought upon him. Nehemiah's
prayer might well have been his, "Howbeit Thou art just in all that is brought upon us; for
Thou hast done right and we have done wickedly."[footnote10:Neh.9:33]

This is ever the nature of true confession of sin, true brokenness. It is the confession that
my sin is not just a mistake, a slip, a something which is really foreign to my heart ("Not
really like me to have such thoughts or do such things!"), but that it is something which reveals
the real 'I'; that shows me to be the proud, rotten, unclean thing God says I am; that it really
is like me to have such thoughts and do such things. Rather the reverse is true, for out of
such confession God gets glory, for we declare Him to be right. This brings us to a new experience
of victory in Christ, for it declares afresh, that "in me (that is, in my flesh), dwelleth
no good thing,"[footnote12:Rom.7:18] and brings us to a place where we give up trying to make
our incorrigible selves holy and where we take Jesus to be our holiness and His life to be
our life.

Peace and Cleansing.

But the Publican did something more than justify God. He pointed to the sacrifice on the altar,
and found peace with God and cleansing from sin, as he did so. That comes out in the literal
meaning of the words which he uttered, "God be merciful to me, a sinner." In the Greek, the
words mean literally, "God be propitiated to me, the sinner." The only way by which a Jew knew
that God could be propitiated was by a sacrifice, and, in all probability, at that very hour
the lamb for the daily burnt offering was being offered up on the altar in the temple.

With us it is the same. A man never comes to this position of brokenness, but God shows him
the Divine Lamb on Calvary's Cross, putting away his sin by the shedding of His Blood. The
God who declares beforehand what we are, provides beforehand for our sin. Jesus was the Lamb
slain for our sins from the foundation of the world. In Him, who bore them in meekness, my
sins are finished. And as I, in true brokenness, confess them, and put my faith in His Blood,
they are cleansed and gone. Peace with God then comes into my heart, fellowship with God is
immediately restored, and I walk with Him in white.

This simple way of being willing to justify God and see the power of the Blood to cleanse brings
within our reach, as never before, a close walk with Jesus, a constant dwelling with Him in
the Holy of Holies. As we walk with Him in the Light, He will be showing us all the time the
beginnings of things which, if allowed to pass, will grieve Him and check the flow of His life
in us--things which are the expression of that old proud self, for which God has nothing but
judgment. At no point must we protest our innocence of what He shows us. All along we must
be willing to justify Him and say, "Thou art right, Lord; that just shows what I am," and be
willing to give it to Him for cleansing. As we do so, we shall find that His precious Blood
is continuously cleansing us from sin, and that "the tide is being continuously healed at its
beginning," and Jesus is continuously filling us with His Spirit. This demands that we must
be men of "a humble and contrite spirit," that is, men who are willing to be shown the smallest
thing. But such are the ones, God says, who "dwell with Him in the high and holy place,"[footnote13:Is.57:15]
and who experience continuous revival.

There then is our choice--to protest our innocence and go down to our house, unblessed, dry
of soul and out of touch with God. Or to justify God and to enter into peace, fellowship and
victory through the Blood of Jesus.