With respect to steel, in 1831 the process in use was that of cementation, producing blistered
steel, which was either piled and welded to make shear steel, or was broken into small pieces,
melted in pots, and run into an ingot weighing only some 50 lb. or 60 lb. At that time steel
was dealt in by the pound; nobody thought of steel in tons. In 1881, we are all aware that,
by Sir Henry Bessemer's well-known discovery, carried out by him with such persistent vigor,
cast iron is, by the blowing process, converted into steel, and that of Dr. Siemens' equally
well-known process (now that, owing to his invention of the regenerative furnace, it is possible
to obtain the necessary high temperature), steel is made upon the open hearth. We are, moreover,
aware that, by both of these processes, steel is produced in quantities of many tons at a single
operation, with the result that as instanced in the case of the North-Eastern rails, steel
is a cheaper material than the wrought iron made by the puddling process. One cannot pass away
from the steel manufacture without alluding to Sir Joseph Whitworth's process of putting a
pressure on the steel while in a tried state. By this means, the cavities which are frequently
to be found in the ingot of a large size are, while the steel is fluid, rendered considerably
smaller, and the steel is thereby rendered much more sound. In conclusion of my observations
on the subject of iron and steel manufacture, I wish to call attention to the invention of
Messrs. Thomas & Gilchrist, by which ores of iron, containing impurities that unfitted them
to be used in the manufacture of steel, are now freed from these impurities, and are thus brought
into use for steel-making purposes.

BRIDGES.

In the year 1831, bridges of cast iron existed; but no attempt had been made to employ wrought
iron in girder bridges, although Telford had employed it in the Menai Suspension Bridge; but
in 1881, the introduction of railways, and the improvement in iron manufactures, have demanded,
and have rendered possible the execution of such bridges as the tubular one, spanning the Menai
Straits, in span of 400 feet, and the Saltash, over the Tamar, with spans of 435 feet; while
recent great improvements in the manufacture of steel have rendered possible the contemplated
construction of the Forth Bridge, where there are to be spans of 1,700 feet, or one-third of
a mile in length. Mr. Barlow, one of the engineers of this bridge, has told me that there will
be used upwards of 2,000 more tons of material in the Forth Bridge, to resist the wind pressure,
than would have been needed if no wind had to be taken into account, and if the question of
the simple weight to be carried had alone to be considered. With respect to the foundation
of bridges, that ingenious man, Lord Cochrane, patented a mode of sinking foundations, even
before the first meeting of the British Association, viz., as far back, I believe, as 1825
or 1826; and the improvements which he then invented are almost universally in use in bridge
construction at the present day. Cylinders sunk by the aid of compressed air, airlocks to obtain
access to the cylinder, and, in fact, every means that I know of as having been used in the
modern sinking of cylinder foundations, were described by Lord Cochrane (afterwards Earl of
Dundonald) in that specification.

The next subject I propose to touch on is that of

MACHINE TOOLS.

In 1831, the mention of lathes, drilling machines, and screwing machines brings me very nearly
to the end of the list of the machine tools used by turners and fitters, and at that time many
lathes were without slide rests. The boiler-maker had then his punching-press and shearing
machine; the smith, leaving on one side his forges and their bellows, had nothing but hand
tools, and the limit of these was a huge hammer, with two handles, requiring two men to work
it. In anchor manufacture, it is true, a mechanical drop-hammer, known as a Hercules, was employed,
while in iron works, the Helve and the Tilt hammer were in use. For ordinary smith's work,
however, there were, as has been said, practically no machine tools at all.

This paucity or absence in some trades, as we have seen, of machine tools, involved the need
of very considerable skill on the part of the workman. It required the smith to be a man not
only of great muscular power, but to be possessed of an accurate eye and a correct judgment,
in order to produce the forgings which were demanded of him, and to make the sound work that
was needed, especially when that soundness was required in shafts, and in other pieces which,
in those days, were looked upon as of magnitude; which, indeed, they were, relatively to the
tools which could be brought to operate upon them. The boiler-maker in his work had to trust
almost entirely to the eye for correctness of form and for regularity of punching, while all
parts of engines and machines which could not be dealt with in the lathe, in the drilling,
or in the screwing machine, had to be prepared by the use of the chisel and the file.

At the present day, the turning and fitting shops are furnished not only with the slide lathe,
self acting in both directions, and screw-cutting, the drilling-machine, and the screwing machine,
but with planing machines competent to plane horizontally, vertically, or at an angle; shaping
machines, rapidly reciprocating, and dealing with almost any form of work; nut shaping machines,
slot drilling machines, and slotting machines, while the drills have become multiple and radial;
and the accuracy of the work is insured by testing on large surface plates, and by the employment
of Whitworth internal and external standard gauges.

The boiler maker's tools now comprise the steam, compressed air, hydraulic or other mechanical
riveter, rolls for the bending of plates while cold into the needed cylindrical or conical
forms, multiple drills for the drilling of rivet holes, planing machines to plane the edges
of the plates, ingenious apparatus for flanging them, thereby dispensing with one row of rivets
out of two, and roller expanders for expanding the tubes in locomotive and in marine boilers;
while the punching press, where still used, is improved so as to make the holes for seams of
rivets in a perfect line, and with absolute accuracy of pitch.

With respect to the smith's shop, all large pieces of work are now manipulated under heavy
Nasmyth or other steam hammers; while smaller pieces of work are commonly prepared either in
forging machines or under rapidly moving hammers, and when needed in sufficient numbers are
made in dies. And applicable to all the three industries of the fitting shop, the boiler shop,
and the smith's shop, and also to that other industry carried on in the foundry, are the traveling
and swing cranes, commonly worked by shafting, or by quick moving ropes for the travelers,
and by hydraulic power or by steam engines for the swing cranes. It may safely be said, that
without the aid of these implements, it would be impossible to handle the weights that are
met with in machinery of the present day.

I now come to one class of machine which, humble and small as it is, has probably had a greater
effect upon industry and upon domestic life than almost any other. I mean

THE SEWING MACHINE.

In 1831, there was no means of making a seam except by the laborious process of the hand needle.
In 1846, Eldred Walker patented a machine for parsing the basting thread through the gores
of umbrellas, a machine that was very ingenious and very simple, but was utterly unlike the
present sewing machine, with its eye-pointed needle, using sometimes two threads (the second
being put in by a shuttle or by another needle), and making stitches at twenty-fold the rapidity
with which the most expert needlewoman could work. By means of the sewing machine not only
are all textile fabrics operated upon, but even the thickest leather is dealt with, and as
a tour de force, but as a matter of fact, sheet-iron plates themselves have been pierced, and
have been united by a seam no boilermaker ever contemplated, the piercing and the seam being
produced by a Blake sewing machine. I believe all in this section will agree that the use of
the sewing machine has been unattended by loss to those who earn their living by the needle;
in fact, it would not be too much to say that there has been a positive improvement in their wages.

The next matter I have to touch upon is

AGRICULTURAL MACHINERY.

In 1831, we had thrashing machines and double plows, and even multiple plows had been proposed,
tried, and abandoned. Reaping machines had been experimented with and abandoned; sowing machines
were in use, but not many of them; clod crushers and horse rakes were also in use; but as a
fact plowing was done by horse power with a single furrow at a time, mowing and reaping were
done by the scythe or the sickle, sheaves were bound by hand, hay was tedded by hand-rakes,
while all materials and produce were moved about in carts and in wagons drawn by horses. At
the present time we have multiple plows, making five or six furrows at a time, these and cultivators
also, driven by steam, commonly from two engines on the head lands, the plow being in between,
and worked by a rope from each engine, or if by one engine, a capstan on the other head land,
with a return rope working the plow backward and forward; or by what is known as the roundabout
system, where the engine is fixed and the rope carried round about the field; or else plows
and cultivators are worked by ropes from two capstans placed on the two head lands, and driven
by means of a quick-going rope, actuated by an engine, the position of which is not changed.
And then we have reaping machines, driven at present by horses; but how long it will be before
the energy residing in a battery, or that in a reservoir of compressed air, will supersede
horse power to drive the reaping machine, I don't know, but I don't suppose it will be very
long. The mowing and reaping machines not only cut the crop and distribute it in swaths, or,
in the case of the reaping machine, in bundles, but now, in the instance of these latter machines,
are competent to bind it into sheaves. In lieu of hand tedding, haymaking machines are employed,
tossing the grass into the air, so as to thoroughly aerate it, taking advantage of every brief
interval of fine weather; and seed and manure are distributed by machine with unfailing accuracy.
The soil is drained by the aid of properly constructed plows for preparing the trenches; roots
are steamed and sliced as food for cattle; and the thrashing machine no longer merely beats
out the grain, but it screens it, separates it, and elevates the straw, so as to mechanically
build it up into a stack. I do not know a better class of machine than the agricultural portable
engine. Every part of it is perfectly proportioned and made; it is usually of the locomotive
type, and the economy of fuel in its use is extremely great. I cannot help thinking that the
improvement in this respect which has taken place in these engines, and the improvement of
agricultural machinery generally, is very largely due to the Royal Agricultural Society, one
of the most enterprising bodies in England.

I now come to the very last subject I propose to speak upon, and that is

PRINTING MACHINERY,

and especially as applied to the printing of newspapers. In 1831, we had the steam press sending
out a few hundred copies in an hour, and doing that upon detached sheets, and thus many hours
were required for an edition of some thousands. The only way of expediting the matter would
have been to have recomposed the paper, involving, however, double labor to the compositors,
and a double chance of error. At the present day, we have, by the Walter press, the paper printed
on a continuous sheet at a rate per hour at least three times as great as that of the presses
of 1831, and, by the aid of papier máché moulds, within five minutes from the starting of the
first press, a second press can be got to work from the stereotype plates, and a third one
in the next five minutes; and thus the wisdom of our senators, which has been delivered as
late as three o'clock in the morning, is able to be transmitted by the newspaper train leaving
Euston at 5:15 A.M.

This is the last matter with which I shall trouble the Section. I have purposely omitted telegraphy;
I have purposely omitted artillery, textile fabrics, and the milling and preparation of grain.
These and other matters I have omitted for several reasons. Some I have omitted because I was
incompetent to speak upon them, others because of the want of time, and others because they
more properly belong to Section A.

I hope, sir, although your address, dealing with the future, was undoubtedly the right address
for a president to deliver, and although it is equally right that we should not content ourselves
with merely looking back in a "rest and be thankful" spirit at the various progress which this
paper records, it may nevertheless be thought well that there should have been brought before
the section, in however cursory a manner, some notice of mechanical development during the
past fifty years.

       *       *       *       *       *

[Continued from SUPPLEMENT, No. 311, page 4954.]

AMATEUR MECHANICS.

METAL TURNING.

In selecting a lathe an amateur may exercise more or less taste, and he may be governed somewhat
by the length of his purse; the same is true in the matter of chucks; but when he comes to
the selection or making of turning tools he must conform to fundamental principles; he must
profit as far as possible by the experience of others, and will, after all, find enough to
be learned by practice.

Tools of almost every description may be purchased at reasonable prices, but the practice of
making one's own tools cannot be too strongly recommended. It affords a way out of many an
emergency, and where time is not too valuable, a saving will be realized. A few bars of fine
tool steel, a hammer, and a small anvil, are all that are required, aside from fire and water.
The steel should be heated to a low red, and shaped with as little hammering as possible; it
may then be allowed to cool slowly, when it may be filed or ground to give it the required
form. It may now be hardened by heating it to a cherry red and plunging it straight down into
clean cool (not too cold) water. It should then be polished on two of its sides, when the temper
may be drawn in the flame of an alcohol lamp or Bunsen gas burner; or, if these are not convenient,
a heated bar of iron may be used instead, the tool being placed in contact with it until the
required color appears. This for tools to be used in turning steel, iron, and brass may be
a straw color. For turning wood it may be softer. The main point to be observed in tempering
a tool is to have it as hard as possible without danger of its being broken while in use. By
a little experiment the amateur will be able to suit the temper of his tools to the work in hand.

In the engraving accompanying the present article a number of hand turning tools are shown,
also a few tools for the slide rest. These tools are familiar to machinists and may be well
known to many amateurs; but we give them for the benefit of those who are unacquainted with
them and for the sake of completeness in this series of articles.

Fig. 1 is the ordinary diamond tool, made from a square bar of steel ground diagonally so as
to give it two similar cutting edges. This tool is perhaps more generally useful than any of
the others. The manner of using it is shown in Fig. 23; it is placed on the tool rest and dexterously
moved on the rest as a pivot, causing the point to travel in a circular path along the metal
in the lathe. Of course only a small distance is traveled over before the tool is moved along
on the rest. After a little experience it will be found that by exercising care a good job
in plain turning may be done with the tool.

Fig. 2 shows a sharp V shaped tool which will be found useful for many purposes. Fig. 3 is
a V shaped tool for finishing screw threads. Figs. 4 and 5 are round-nosed tools for concave
surfaces; Fig. 6, a square tool for turning convex and plane surfaces. The tool shown in Fig.
7 should be made right and left; it is useful in turning brass, ivory, hard wood, etc. Fig.
8 is a separating tool; Fig. 9 is an inside tool, which should be made both right and left,
and its point may be either round, V shaped, or square. Fig. 24 shows the manner of holding
an inside tool. Fig. 10 is a tool for making curved undercuts. Fig. 11 is a representative
of a large class of tools for duplicating a given form.

These figures represent a series of tools which may be varied infinitely to adapt them to different
purposes. The user, if he is wide awake, is not long in discovering what angle to give the
cutting edge, what shape to give the point, and what position to give the tool in relation
to the work to be done.

Having had experience with hand tools it requires only a little practice and observation to
apply the same principles to slide rest tools.

A few examples of this class of tools are given. Fig. 12 is the ordinary diamond pointed tool,
which should be made right and left. The cutting edge may have a more or less acute angle,
according to the work to be done, and the inclined or front end of the tool may be slightly
squared or rounded, according to the work. Fig. 13 is a separating tool, which is a little
wider at the cutting edge than any where else, so that it will clear itself as it is forced
into the work.

For brass this tool should be beveled downward slightly. By giving the point the form shown
in Fig. 3 it will be adapted to screw cutting.

Fig. 14 shows an inside tool for the slide rest; its point may be modified according to the
work to be done. Fig. 15 is a side tool for squaring the ends of shafts; Figs. 16, 17, 18,
and 19 represent tools for brass, Fig. 16 is a round-nosed tool for brass, Fig. 17 a V shaped
tool, Fig. 18 a screw thread tool, and Fig. 19 a side tool. In boring, whether the object is
cored or not, it is desirable, where the hole is not too large, to take out the first cut with
a drill. The drill for the purpose is shown in Fig. 20, the drill holder in Fig. 21, and the
manner of using in Fig 22. The drill holder, B, is held by a mortised post placed in the rest
support. The slot of the drill holder is placed exactly opposite the tail center and made secure.
The drill, which is flat, is drilled to receive the tail center, and it is kept from turning
by the holder, and is kept from lateral movement and chattering by a wrench, C, which is turned
so as to bind the drill in the slot of the holder.

The relative position of the tool and work is shown in Figs. 25, 26, 27, and 28; Fig. 25 shows
the position for brass; Fig. 26 for iron and steel; Fig. 27 the relative position of the engine
rest tool and its work; and Fig. 28 the position of the tool for soft metal and wood.

In all of these cases the point of the tool is above the center of the work. In the matter
of the adjustment of the tool, as well as in all other operations referred to, experiment is
recommended as the best means of gaining valuable knowledge in the matter of turning metals.

ROTARY CUTTERS.

The saving of files, time, materials, and patience, by the employment of such rotary cutters
as may be profitably used in connection with a foot lathe, can hardly be appreciated by one
who has never attempted to use this class of tools. It is astonishing how much very hard labor
may be saved by means of a small circular saw like that shown in Fig. 1. This tool, like many
others described in this series of articles, can, in most instances, be purchased cheaper than
it can be made, and the chances are in favor of its being a more perfect article. However,
it is not so difficult to make as one might suppose. A piece of sheet steel may be chucked
upon the face plate, or on a wooden block attached to the face plate, where it may be bored
to fit the saw mandrel, and cut in circular form by means of a suitable hand tool. It may then
be placed upon the mandrel and turned true, and it is well enough to make it a little thinner
in the middle than at the periphery.

There are several methods of forming the teeth on a circular saw. It may be spaced and filed,
or it may be knurled, as shown in Fig. 2, and then filed, leaving every third or fourth tooth
formed by the knurl, or it may, for some purposes, be knurled and not filed at all. Another
way of forming the teeth is to employ a hub, something like that used in making chasers, as
shown in Fig. 3, the difference between this hub and the other one referred to, is that the
thread has one straight side corresponding with the radial side of the tooth. The blank from
which the saw is made is placed on a stud projecting from a handle made specially for the purpose,
and having a rounded end which supports the edge of the blank, as the teeth are formed by the
cutters on the hub.

The saw, after the teeth are formed, may be hardened and tempered by heating it slowly until
it attains a cherry red, and plunging it straight down edgewise into cool, clean water. On
removing it from the water it should be dried, and cleaned with a piece of emery paper, and
its temper drawn to a purple, over a Bunsen gas flame, over the flame of an alcohol lamp, or
over a hot plate of iron. The small saw shown in Fig. 4 is easily made from a rod of fine steel.
It is very useful for slotting sheet brass and tubes, slotting small shafts, nicking screws,
etc. Being quite small it has the advantage of having few teeth to keep in order, and it may
be made harder than those of larger diameter. A series of them, varying in diameter from one
eighth to three eighths of an inch, and varying considerably in thickness, will be found very
convenient.

These cutters or saws, with the exception of the smaller one, may be used to the best advantage
in connection with a saw table, like that shown in Fig. 8. This is a plane iron table having
a longitudinal groove in its face to receive the guiding rib of the carriage, shown in Fig.
9, and a transverse groove running half way across, to receive a slitting gauge, as shown in
Fig. 8. The table is supported by a standard or shank, which fits into the tool-rest socket.
The saw mandrel is supported between the centers of the lathe, and the saw projects more or
less through a slot formed in the table. The gauge serves to guide the work to be slotted,
and other kinds of work may be placed on or against the carriage, shown in Fig. 9.

It is a very simple matter to arrange guiding pieces for cutting at any angle, and the saw
table may be used for either metal or wood. The saws for wood differ from those used for metal;
the latter are filed straight, the former diagonally or fleaming. Among the many uses to which
metal saws may be applied we mention the slitting of sheet metals, splitting wires and rods,
slotting and grooving, nicking screws, etc. Fig. 10 shows a holder for receiving screws to
be nicked. It is used in connection with the saw table, and is moved over the saw against the
gauge.

To facilitate the removal of the screws the holder may be split longitudinally and hinged together.
Another method of nicking screws is illustrated by Fig. 11. A simple lever, fulcrumed on a
bar held by the tool post, is drilled and tapped in the end to receive the screw. After adjusting
the tool all that is required is to insert the screw and press down the handle so as to bring
the screw head into contact with the saw.

Where a lathe is provided with an engine rest, the cutter shown in Fig. 6, mounted on the mandrel
shown in Fig. 5, is very useful; it is used by clamping the work to the slide rest and moving
it under the cutter by working the slide rest screw.

To make a cutter of this kind is more difficult than to make a saw, and to do it readily a
milling machine would be required. It may be done, however, on a plain foot lathe, by employing
a V-shaped cutter and using a holder (Fig. 7) having an angular groove for receiving the cylinder
on which the cutting edges are formed. The blank can be spaced with sufficient accuracy, by
means of a fine pair of dividers, and after the first groove is cut there will be no difficulty
in getting the rest sufficiently accurate, as a nib inserted in the side of the guide enters
the first groove and all of the others in succession and regulates the spacing.

One of the best applications of this tool is shown in the small engraving. In this case a table
similar to the saw table before described is supported in a vertical position, and arranged
at right angles with the cutter mandrel. The mandrel is of the same diameter as the cutter,
and serves as a guide to the pattern which carries the work to be operated upon. The principal
use of this contrivance is to shape the edges of curved or irregular metal work. The casting
to be finished is fastened--by cement if small, and by clamps if large--to a pattern having
exactly the shape required in the finished work.

By moving the pattern in contact with the table and the mandrel, while the latter revolves,
the edges of the work will be shaped and finished at the same time. By substituting a conical
cutter for a cylindrical one, the work may be beveled; by using both, the edge may be made
smooth and square, while the corner is beveled.

The tool shown in Fig. 12 might properly be called a barrel saw. It is made by drilling in
the end of a steel rod and forming the teeth with a file. To avoid cracking in tempering a
small hole should be drilled through the side near the bottom of the larger hole. To insure
the free working of the tool it should be turned so that its cutting edge will be rather thicker
than the position behind it. This tool should be made in various sizes.

Tools for gear cutting and also cutters for wood have not been mentioned in this paper; as
they are proper subjects for separate treatment.

WOOD WORKING.

