BLACKWOOD'S EDINBURGH MAGAZINE

       *       *       *       *       *

No. CCCXXX.   APRIL, 1843.   VOL. LIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS

  THE PRACTISE OF AGRICULTURE,
  POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.--NO. VII.,
  THE LAST OF THE SHEPHERDS,
  THE FOUNDING OF THE BELL. BY CHARLES MACKAY,
  AMMALAT BEK. A TRUE TALE OF THE CAUCASUS FROM THE
      RUSSIAN OF MARLINSKY.--CHAPTER III.,
  OCCUPATION OF ADEN,
  SONNET,
  CALEB STUKLEY.

       *       *       *       *       *

No. CCCXXX. APRIL, 1843. VOL. LIII.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE PRACTICE OF AGRICULTURE

Skilful practice is applied science. This fact is illustrated in every chapter of the excellent
and comprehensive work now before us [1].

In a previous article, (see the number for June 1842,) we illustrated at some length the connexion
which now exists, and which hereafter must become more intimate, between practical agriculture
and modern science. We showed by what secret and silent steps the progress and gradual diffusion
of modern scientific discoveries had imperceptibly led to great improvements in the agriculture
of the present century--by what other more open and manifest applications of science it had
directly, and in the eyes of all, been advanced--to what useful practical discussions the promulgation
of scientific opinions had given rise--and to what better practice such discussions had eventually
led. Above all, we earnestly solicited the attention of the friends of agriculture to what
science seemed not only capable of doing, but anxious also to effect, for the further advance
of this important art--what new lessons to give, new suggestions to offer, and new means of
fertility to place in the hands of, the skilful experimental farmer.

It is but a comparatively short time since that article was written, and yet the spread of
sound opinion, of correct and enlightened views, and of a just appreciation, as well of the
aids which science is capable of giving to agriculture, as of the expediency of availing ourselves
of all these aids, which within that period has taken place among practical men, has really
surprised us. Nor have we been less delighted by the zeal with which the pursuit of scientific
knowledge, in its relations to agriculture, has been entered upon in every part of the empire--by
the progress which has been made in the acquisition of this knowledge--and by the numerous
applications already visible of the important principles and suggestions embodied in the works
then before us, (JOHNSTON's Lectures and Elements of Agricultural Chemistry and Geology.) But
on this important topic we do not at present dwell. We may have occasion to return to the subject
in a future number, and in the mean time we refer our readers to the remarks contained in our
previous article.

The truly scientific man--among those, we mean, who devote themselves to such studies as are
susceptible of important applications to the affairs and pursuits of daily life--the truly
scientific man does not despise the practice of any art, in which he sees the principles he
investigates embodied and made useful in promoting the welfare of his fellow-men. He does not
even undervalue it--he rather upholds and magnifies its importance, as the agent or means by
which his greatest and best discoveries can be made to subserve their greatest and most beneficent
end. In him this may possibly arise from no unusual liberality of mind; it may spring from
a selfish desire to see the principles he has established or made his own carried out to their
legitimate extent, and their value established and acknowledged--for it is the application
of a principle that imparts to it its highest value.

[Footnote 1: THE BOOK OF THE FARM. By Henry Stephens.]

Science is to practical skill in the arts of life as the soul is to the body. They are united
as faith and works are in concerns of higher moment. As both, though separately good, must
yet be united in the finished Christian, so the perfection of husbandry implies the union of
all the lights of existing theoretical knowledge with all the skill of the most improved agricultural
practice.

Though such is the belief of those scientific men who are able and willing to do the most for
practical agriculture, who see most clearly what can be done for it, and the true line along
which agricultural improvement may now most hopefully direct her course--yet with this opinion
the greater part of practical men are still far from sympathizing. Some voices even--becoming
every day more feeble, however, and recurring at more distant intervals--continue to be raised
against the utility and the applications of science; as if practice with stationary knowledge
were omnipotent in developing the resources of nature; as if a man, in a rugged and partially
explored country, could have too much light to guide his steps.

In the history of maritime intercourse there was a time when the timid seaman crept from port
to port, feeling his cautious and wary way from headland to headland, and daring no distant
voyage where seas, and winds, and rocks, unknown to him, increased the dangers of his uncertain
life. Then a bolder race sprung up--tall ships danced proudly upon the waves, and many brave
hearts manned and guided them; yet still they rarely ventured from sight of land. Men became
bewildered still, perplexed, and full of fear, when sea and sky alone presented themselves.
But a third period arose--and in the same circumstances, men not more brave appeared collected,
fearless, and full of hope. Faith in a trembling needle gave confidence to the most timorous,
and neither the rough Atlantic nor the wide Pacific could deter the bold adventurer, or the
curious investigator of nature.

And yet it was not till this comparatively advanced stage of the nautical art--when man had
obtained a faithful guide in his most devious and trackless wanderings--when he was apparently
set free from the unsteady dominion of the seas and of the fickle winds--and amid his labyrinthine
course could ever and at once turn his face towards his happy and expectant home;--it was not
till this period that science began to lend her most useful and most extensive aids, and that
her value in the advancement of the sailor's art began to be justly appreciated. The astronomer
forthwith taught him more accurately to observe the heavens, and compiled laborious tables
for his daily use. Geography and hydrography obtained higher estimation, and harbour-engineering
and ship-building were elevated into more important separate arts, chiefly from their applications
to his use. Nautical schools and nautical surveys, and lighthouse boards, with all their attendant
scientific researches, and magnetic observations, and voyages of discovery all sprung up--at
once the causes and the consequences of the advancement of his art towards perfection; and
latest, though yet far from being the last, all the new knowledge that belongs to steam-navigation
has been incorporated in the vast body of nautical science. The further an art advances, the
more necessary does science become to it.

Thus it is with agriculture. It cannot be denied that the tillage of the soil, with almost
every other branch of husbandry, has made large strides among us--that we have more productive
and better cultivated provinces, and more skilful farmers, than are to be found in any other
part of the world in which equal disadvantages of climate prevail. Any one will readily satisfy
himself of this, who, with an agricultural eye, shall visit the other parts of Europe to which
the same northern sky is common with ourselves. And it is because we have reached this pitch
of improvement--at which many think we ought to be content to stop--because we have dismissed
our frail and diminutive boats, and sail now in majestic and decorated ships, provided with
such abundant stores that we need not, night by night, to seek the harbour for new supplies--that
we begin to feel the want of some directing principle--to look about for some favouring star
to guide our wanderings upon the deep. To the tremblirg needle of science we must now turn
to point our way. Feeble and uncertain it may itself appear--wavering as it directs us--and
therefore by many may be depreciated and despised--yet it will surely lead us right if we have
faith in its indications. Let the practical man then build his ships skilfully and well after
the best models, and of the soundest oak--let their timbers be Kyanized, their cables of iron,
their cordage and sails of the most approved make and material--let their sailors be true men
and fearless, and let stores be providently laid in for the voyage; but let not the trembling
needle of science be forgotten; for though the distant harbour he would gain be well known
to him--without the aid of the needle he may never be able to reach it.

In thus rigging out his ship--in other words, in fitting up his farm and doing all for it,
and upon it, which experience and skilful practice can suggest--he cannot have a better guide
than the book now before us.

THE BOOK OF THE FARM is not a mere didactic treatise on practical agriculture, of which we
already possess several of deserved reputation; nor yet a laborious compilation, systematically
arranged, of every thing which, in the opinion of the author, it should interest the farmer
to know. Of such Cyclopædias, that of Loudon will not soon find a rival. But, as its name implies,
The Book of the Farm contains a detail of all the operations, the more minute as well as the
greater, which the husbandman will be called upon to undertake upon his farm--in the exact
order in point of time in which they will successively demand his attention. Beginning at the
close of the agricultural year, when the crops are reaped and housed, and the long winter invites
to new and peculiar, and, as they may be called, preparatory labours, the reader is taught
what work in each succeeding month and season should be undertaken--why at that season for
what purpose it is to be done-in what way it can best be performed--how at the least cost of
money and the smallest waste of time--and how the master may at all times ascertain if his
work has been efficiently performed.

We confess that we have been much struck with the wide range of practical subjects on which
the author gives, in such a way a to show that he is himself familiar with them, the most minute
directions for the guidance at once of the master farmer himself, and for the direction of
those who are under his orders. We have satisfied ourselves that by carefully examining the
contents of this one book, we should be prepared not merely to pass an examination, but actually
to undertake the office of public examiner in any or all of the several crafts and mysteries
of the farm-builder, the weather-seer, the hedge-planter, the ditcher, the drainer, the ploughman,
the cattle-feeder, the stock-buyer, the drover, the pig-killer, the fat cattle seller, the
butcher, the miller, and the grieve or general overseer of the farm. We know not what other
gentle crafts the still unpublished parts of the work may hereafter teach us; but so faithfully
and so minutely, in general so clearly, and with so much apparent enjoyment, does the author
enter into the details of all the above lines of life, that we have been deceived (we suppose)
into the persuasion that Mr. Stephens must, in his lifetime, have "played many parts"--that
he has himself, as occasion offered, or as work fell in his way, engaged in every one of these
as well as of the other varied occupations it falls in his way to describe.

How, otherwise, for instance, should he so well understand the duties and habits, and sympathize
with the privations and simple enjoyments of the humble and way-worn drover?--

"A drover of sheep should always be provided with a dog, as the numbers and nimbleness of sheep
render it impossible for one man to guide a capricious flock along a road subject to many casualties;
not a young dog, who is apt to work and bark a great deal more than necessary, much to the
annoyance of the sheep--but a knowing cautious tyke. The drover should have a walking stick,
a useful instrument at times in turning a sheep disposed to break off from the rest. A shepherd's
plaid he will find to afford comfortable protection to his body from cold and wet, while the
mode in which it is worn leaves his limbs free for motion. He should carry provision with him,
such as bread, meat, cheese or butter, that he may take luncheon or dinner quietly beside his
flock, while resting in a sequestered part of the road; and he may slake his thirst in the
first brook or spring he finds, or purchase a bottle of ale at a roadside ale-house. Though
exposed all day to the air, and even though he feel cold, he should avoid drinking spirits,
which only produce temporary warmth, and for a long time after induce chilliess and languor.
Much rather let him reserve the allowance of spirits he gives himself until the evening, when
he can enjoy it in warm toddy beside a comfortable fire, before retiring to rest for the night."
--Vol. ii. p. 89.

Then how knowingly he treats of the fat upon the sheep:--

"The formation of fat in a sheep commences in the inside, the net of fat which envelopes the
intestines being first formed. After that, fat is seen on the outside, and first upon the end
of the rump at the tail head, which continues to move on along the back, on both sides of the
spine to the bend of the ribs, to the neck. Then it is deposited between the muscles, parallel
with the cellular tissue. Meanwhile it is covering the lower round of the ribs, descending
to the flanks until the two sides meet under the belly, from whence it proceeds to the brisket
or breast in front and the shaw behind, filling up the inside of the arm-pits and thighs. The
spaces around the fibres of the muscles are the last to receive a deposition of fat, but after
this has begun, every other part simultaneously receives its due share, the back and kidneys
receiving the most--so much so that the former literally becomes nicked, as it is termed; that
is, the fat is felt through the skin to be divided into two portions. When all this has been
accomplished, the sheep is said to be fat or ripe."--Vol. ii. p. 93.

But the enjoyment of tracing the accumulating fat is not enough for our author--as soon as
his sheep is ripe, he forthwith proceeds to slaughter it; and though he describes every part
of this process accurately, and with true professional relish, coolly telling us, that "the
operation is unattended with cruelty;" yet we must be content to refer our readers to the passage
(vol. ii. p. 96) as an illustration of his skill in this interesting branch of farm-surgery.
He is really an amiable sheep-operator, our author--what placid benevolence and hatred of quackery
appear in his instructions-- "Learn to slaughter gently, dress the carcass neatly and cleanly,
in as plain a manner as possible, and without flourishes."--p. 167.

But whisky-toddy and fat mutton are not the only things our author relishes. He must have been
a farm-servant, living in a bothy, at least as long as he drove on the road or practised surgery
in the slaughter-house. After describing the farm-servant's wages and mode of living, he thus
expands upon the subject of Scottish brose:--

"The oatmeal is usually cooked in one way, as brose. A pot of water is put on the fire to boil--a
task which the men (in the bothy) take in turns; a handful or two of oatmeal is taken out of
the small chest with which each man provides himself, and put into a wooden bowl, which also
is the ploughman's property; and, on a hollow being made in the meal, and sprinkled with salt,
the boiling-water is poured over the meal, and the mixture receiving a little stirring with
a horn-spoon, and the allowance of milk poured over it, the brose is ready to be eaten; and,
as every man makes his own brose, and knows his own appetite, he makes just as much as he can
consume." [2]

[Footnote 2: "The fare is simple, and is as simply made, but it must be wholesome, and capable
of supplying the loss of substance occasioned by hard labour; for I believe that no class of
men can endure more bodily fatigue for ten hours every day, than those ploughmen of Scotland
who subsist on this brose three times a-day."--Vol. ii. p. 384.]

But if the life of the ploughman is familiar to our author, the work he has to do, and the
mode of doing it well, and the reason why it should be done one way here, and another way there,
are no less so. The uninitiated have no idea of the complicated patterns which the ploughman
works, according to the nature of the soil and the season of the year in which he labours.
He may be "gathering up--crown-and-furrow ploughing--casting, or yoking, or coupling ridges--casting
ridges with gore furrows--cleaving down ridges with or without gore furrows--ploughing two-out-and-two-in--ploughing
in breaks--cross-furrowing--angle-ploughing, ribbing, and drilling--or he may be preparing
the land by feering or striking the ridges."-- (Vol. i. p. 464.) All these methods of turning
up the land are described and illustrated by wood-cuts, and we are sure quite as effectually
done upon paper as if the author had been explaining them upon his own farm, guiding one of
his own best ploughs, and strengthened by a basin of good brose made from his own meal-chest.

But the practical skill of Mr. Stephens is not confined to the lower walks of the agricultural
life. The ploughman sometimes qualifies himself to become a steward, that he may rid himself
of the drudgery of working horses. He has then new duties to perform, which are thus generally
described.

"The duty of the steward or grieve, as he is called in some parts of Scotland, and bailiff
in England, consists in receiving general instructions from his master, the farmer, which he
sees executed by the people under his charge. He exercises a direct control over the ploughmen
and field-workers.... It is his duty to enforce the commands of his master, and to check every
deviation from rectitude he may observe in the servants against his interests. It is not generally
understood that he has control over the shepherd, the hedger, or the cattleman, who are stewards,
in one sense, over their respective departments of labour.... He should always deliver the
daily allowance of corn to the horses. He should be the first person out of bed in the morning,
and the last in it at night. On most farms, he sows the seed in spring, superintends the field-workers
in summer, tends the harvest-field and builds the stacks in autumn, and thrashes the corn with
the mill, and cleans it with the winnowing-machine in winter. He keeps an account of the workpeople's
time, and of the quantity of grain thrashed, consumed on the farm, and delivered to purchasers."--Vol.
i. p. 221.

The practical man who reads the above detail of the steward's duties, will see at once that
it must have been written by "one of themselves;" and, by its correctness, will be able to
judge of the full faith which may be placed in the numerous other details upon every branch
of practical farming with which the work now before us is so full.

We have brought prominently forward the above extracts in relation to the minutiae of the farmer's
life--to the detailed practical knowledge which is so valuable to him, as being those upon
which it appeared to us that a writer who was capable of getting up a book at all, much more
such a book as this professes to be, in reference to the higher branches of the farmers' art,
was most likely to fail. But these parts of the work are written not only knowingly and well,
but with an evident relish for the subject. Let us turn, therefore, to the more intellectual
part of the book, and see how far this part of the task has been satisfactorily accomplished.

The Book of the Farm is mainly intended as a manual for the master-farmer, accompanying him
every where, and at every season of the year, counselling, guiding, and directing him in all
his operations. But it has a higher and more useful aim than merely to remind the practical
agriculturist of what he already knows. It is fitted, without other aid, to teach the beginner
nearly every thing which it is necessary for him to know in order to take his place among the
most intelligent practical men; and to teach it precisely at the time, and in the order, in
which it is most easy, most useful, and most interesting for him to learn it.

The beginner is supposed by Mr. Stephens to have undergone a previous course of instruction
under a practical man, and to enter upon a farm of his own in the beginning of winter. This
farm is a more or less naked and unimproved piece of land, without a farm-stead or farm-house,
with few hedge-rows, and wholly undrained. On entering the farm, also, he has servants to engage,
stock to buy, and implements to select. In all these difflculties, The Book of the Farm comes
to his aid. The most useful, approved, and economical form of a farm-steading is pointed out.
The structure of barns, stables, cow-houses, piggeries, liquid-manure tanks, poultry-yards,
and every other appendage of the farm-house, and, finally, the most fitting construction of
the farm-house itself, according to the size and situation of the farm, are discussed, described,
and explained. Plans and estimates of every expense are added, and woodcuts illustrative of
every less known suggestion. These are not only sufficient to guide the intelligent young farmer
in all the preliminary arrangements for his future comfort and success, but will, we are sure,
supply hints to many older heads for the reconstruction or improvement of farm-steadings, heretofore
deemed convenient and complete. The following chapter aids him in the choice of his servants,
and describes distinctly the duties and province of each.

And now, having concluded his domestic arrangements, [3] he must learn to know something of
the weather which prevails in the district in which he has settled, before he can properly
plan out or direct the execution of the various labours which are to be undertaken upon his
farm during the winter. A chapter of some length, therefore, is devoted to the "weather in
winter," in which the principles by which the weather is regulated in the different parts of
our islands, and the methods of foreseeing or predicting changes, are described and illustrated
as far as they are known. This is the first of those chapters of The Book of the Farm which
illustrates in a way not to be mistaken, the truth announced at the head of this article, that
skilful practice is applied science.

[Footnote 3: Hesiod considered one other appendage to the homestead indispensable, to which
Mr. Stephens does not allude, perhaps from feeling himself incompetent to advise.]

To some it may appear at first sight that our author has indulged in too much detail upon this
subject; but he is not a true practical farmer who says so. The weather has always been a most
interesting subject to the agriculturist--he is every day, in nearly all his movements, dependant
upon it. A week of rain, or of extraordinary drought, or of nipping frost, may disappoint his
most sanguine and best founded expectations. His daily comfort, his yearly profit, and the
general welfare of his family, all depend upon the weather, or upon his skill in foreseeing
its changes, and availing himself of every moment which is favourable to his purposes. Hence,
with agricultural writers, from the most early times, the varied appearances of the clouds,
the nature of the winds, and the changing aspects of the sun and moon, and their several significations,
have formed a favourite subject of description and discussion. Thus of the sun Virgil says--

  "Sol quoque, et exoriens et quum se condet in undas,
  Signa dabit; solem certissima signa sequuntir.
  Et quae mane refert, et quae surgentibus astris."
  At si quum referetque diem condit que relatum
  Lucidus orbis erit: frustra terrebere nimbis
  Et claro silvas cernes aquilone moveri."

Mr. Stephens recognises similar solar indications in the following rhymes:--

  "If the sun in red should set,
  The next day surely will be wet;
  If the sun should set in grey,
  The next will be a rainy day."

In his next edition we recommend to Mr. Stephens's notice the Border version of the latter:--

  "An evening red and a morning grey,
  Send the shepherd on his way;
  An evening grey and a morning red
  Send the shepherd wet to bed."

The most learned meteorologists of the present day believe the moon to influence the weather--the
practical farmer is sure of it--and we have known the result of the hay crop, in adjoining
farms, to be strikingly different, when upon the one the supposed influence of the time of
change was taken into account and acted upon, while in the other it was neglected.

But Virgil is more specific--

  "Ipsa dies alios alio dedit ordine Luna
  Felices operum; quintam fuge....
  Septuma post decumam felix et ponere vitem,
  Et prensos domitare boves."

And in these warnings he only imitates Hesiod--

  [Greek: Pempias de hexaleasthai, hepei chalepai te chai ainai.]

And

  [Greek: Maenos de isamenou trischaidecha taen haleasthai,
  Spezmatos azxasthai phuta de henthzepsasthai arisa.]

But the vague prognostics of old times are not sufficient for the guidance of the skilful and
provident farmer of our day. The barometer, the thermometer, and even the hygrometer, should
be his companions and guides, or occasional counsellors. To the description and useful indications
of these instruments, therefore, a sufficient space is devoted in the book before us. We do
not know any other source from which the practical farmer can draw so much meteorological matter
specially adapted to his own walk of life, as from this chapter upon the weather.

All this our young farmer is not supposed to sit down and master before he proceeds with the
proper business of his new farm; it will be a subject of study with him in many future months,
and winters too. But after a most judicious recommendation, to observe and record whatever
occurs either new or interesting in his field of labour--without which record he will not be
able to contribute, as he may hereafter do, to the extension of agricultural knowledge--he
is taught next, in an able chapter "upon soils and sub-soils," to study the nature of his farm
more thoroughly; to ascertain its natural capabilities--the improvements of which it is susceptible--the
simplest, most efficacious, and most economical means by which this improvement may be effected--and
the kind of implements which it will be most prudent in him to purchase for tilling the kind
of land of which his farm consists, or for bringing it into a more fertile condition. This
chapter also draws largely, especially upon geological and chemical science, and affords another
illustration of what, I trust, Mr. Stephens's book will more and more impress upon our working
farmers, that skilful practice is applied science. We have not room for any extracts, but when
we mention that in the chemical part of it the author has been assisted by Dr. Madden, readers
of the Quarterly Journal of Agriculture will be able to form an estimate of the way in which
this chapter has been got up.

Having now satisfied himself of the nature of his farm as to soil and capabilities, he sees
that new enclosures and shelter will be necessary--that some fields must be subdivided, others
laid out anew--that old hedge-rows must be rooted out or straightened, and new ones planted
in their room. Of what all this may be made to accomplish for his farm, and of how the work
itself may be done, even to the minutest details, the chapters on "enclosures and shelter,"
and on "planting of farm hedges," will fully inform him. The benefits of shelter on our elevated
lands, are not half understood. Thousands upon thousands of acres are lying in comparative
barrenness, which, by adequate shelter, might be converted into productive fields. The increase
of mean temperature which results from skilful enclosures, is estimated at 5° to 8° Fahrenheit;
while in regard to the increased money value, Mr. Thomas Bishop gives the following testimony:--

"Previous to the division of the common moor of Methven in Perthshire, in 1793, the venerable
Lord Lynedoch and Lord Methven had each secured their lower slopes of land adjoining the moor
with belts of plantation. The year following I entered Lord Methven's service, and in 1798
planted about sixty acres of the higher moor ground, valued at 2s. per acre, for shelter to
eighty or ninety acres set apart for cultivation, and let in three divisions to six individuals.
The progress made in improving the land was very slow for the first fifteen years, but thereafter
went on rapidly, being aided by the shelter derived from the growth of the plantations; and
the whole has now become fair land, bearing annually crops of oats, barley, peas, potatoes,
and turnips. In spring 1838, exactly forty years from the time of putting down the plantation,
I sold four acres of larch and fir (average growth) standing therein, for L.220, which, with
the value of reserved trees and average amount per acre of thinnings sold previously, gave
a return of L.67 per acre."--Vol. i, p. 367.

We are satisfied that in localities with which we are ourselves acquainted, there are tens
of thousand of acres which, by the simple protection of sheltering plantations, would soon
be made to exhibit an equal improvement with either the moor of Methven, or the lands upon
Shotley Fell, which are also referred to in the work before us. At a time when such strenuous
endeavours are making to introduce and extend a more efficient drainage among our clay lands,
the more simple amelioration of our cold uplands by judicious plantations, ought neither to
be lost sight of, nor by those who address themselves to the landlords and cultivators, be
passed by without especial and frequent notice.

Did space permit, we could have wished to extract a paragraph or two upon the mode of planting
hedges, and forming ditches, for the purpose of proving to our readers that Mr. Stephens is
as complete a hedger and ditcher, as we have seen him to be cunning as a drover and a cattle
surgeon. But we must refer the reader to the passages in pp. 376 and 379. Even in the planting
of thorn hedges he will find that science is not unavailing, for both mathematics and botany
are made by Mr. Stephens to yield their several contributions to the chapters we are now considering.

But the fields being divided and the hedges planted, or while those operations are going on,
a portion of the land must be subjected to the plough. Next in order, therefore, follows a
chapter upon this important instrument, in which the merits and uses of the several best known--especially
of the Scotch swing-ploughs--are explained and discussed. Here our young farmer is taught which
variety of plough he ought to select for his land, why it is to be preferred, and how it is
to be used, and its movable parts (plough-irons) tempered and adjusted, according to the effect
which the workman is desirous of producing. We are quite sure that the writer of such parts
of this chapter as refer to the practical use of the plough, must himself have handled it for
many a day in the field.

The part of this chapter, again, which relates to the theoretical construction--to the history
of the successive improvements, and to the discussion of the relative merits of the numerous
varieties of ploughs which have lately been recommended to notice--is drawn up by Mr. James
Slight, curator of the museum of the Highland Society, a gentleman whose authority on such
subjects stands deservedly high. To this monograph, as we may call it, upon the plough, we
may again refer as another illustration of the union between agriculture and science. Mechanism
perfects the construction of instruments, chemistry explains the effects which they are the
means of producing in the soil--says also to the mechanic, if you could make them act in such
and such a way, these effects would be more constantly and more fully brought about, and returns
them to the workshop for further improvement. Thus each branch of knowledge aids the other,
and suggests to it means of still further benefitting practical agriculture.

One of the most interesting, and not the least important, of those practical discussions which
have arisen since the establishment of the Royal Agricultural Society of England, has been
in regard to the relative merits and lightness of draught of the Scottish swing-ploughs, and
of certain of the wheel-ploughs made and extensively used, especially in the southern counties.
It is admitted, we believe, on all hands, that a less skilful workman will execute as presentable
a piece of work with a wheel-plough, as a more skilful ploughman with a Scotch swing-plough.
This is insisted upon by one party as a great advantage, while the other attaches no weight
to it at all, saying, that they find no difficulty in getting good ploughmen to work with the
swing-plough, and therefore it would be no advantage to them to change. Still this greater
facility in using it is a true economical advantage, nevertheless; since that which is difficult
to acquire will always be purchased at a dearer rate; and in an improving district, it is some
gain, that it is neither necessary to import very skilful ploughmen, nor to wait till they
are produced at home.

But it is also conceded, we believe, that the swing-plough, in skilful hands, is more easily
or quickly managed than a wheel-plough; that it turns more readily, and when doing the same
kind of work, will go over the ground quicker, and consequently do more work in a day. Theoretically,
this seems undeniable, though it does not appear to be as yet clearly established in what precise
proportion this theoretical acceleration ought to increase the extent of ground gone over by
a diligent ploughman in the ten hours of his daily labour. It is said that, with the wheel-plough,
three-fourths of an acre is an average day's work, while with a swing-plough, an acre is the
ordinary and easy work of an active man on soil of average tenacity. The pace, however, must
depend considerably both upon the horses and their driver; and to whatever extent such a difference
may really exist--and opinions differ upon the subject--it is clearly an argument in favour
of the swing-plough.

But a third and equally important element in the discussion, is the relative draught of the
swing and wheel-ploughs. This element has been lately brought more prominently forward, in
consequence of some interesting experiments, made first, we believe, by Mr. Pusey, and since
repeated by others, as to the relative draught of different ploughs in the same circumstances,
as measured by the dynamometer. This, as well as the other parts of this question, is taken
up, and ably discussed, by Mr. Slight; and he has, we think, satisfactorily shown, that no
wheel-plough (or plough with a foot) can be lighter in draught, merely because it is wheeled--that,
on the contrary, its draught must be in some small degree increased, other things being equal,
(vol. i. p. 463.) This, we think, is probable, on other grounds besides those stated by Mr.
Slight; yet there appears satisfactory reason for believing, that some of the wheel-ploughs
which have been made the subject of experiment, have actually been lighter in draught, when
doing the same work, than any of the swing-ploughs that have been opposed to them. But this
does not show that, in principle, the swing-plough is not superior to the wheel-plough--it
only shows that, in construction, it is still capable of great emendations, and that, in this
respect, some of the wheel-ploughs have got the start of it. But the Scotch makers, who first
so greatly improved the plough, are capable still of competing with their southern rivals;
and from their conjoined exertions, future ploughmen are destined to receive still further aid.

When the ploughs are brought home, and while the winter ploughing is going on, an opportunity
presents itself for laying out, and probably, as the weather permits, of cutting a portion
of the intended drains. Upon this important subject, Mr. Stephens treats with more even than
his usual skill. How true is the following passage:--

"Land, however, though it does not contain such a superabundance of water as to obstruct arable
culture, may nevertheless, by its inherent wetness, prevent or retard the luxuriant growth
of useful plants, as much as decidedly wet land. The truth is, that deficiency of crops on
apparently dry land is frequently attributed to unskilful husbandry, when it really arises
from the baleful influence of concealed stagnant water; and the want of skill is shown, not
so much in the management of the arable culture of the land, as in neglecting to remove the
true cause of the deficiency of the crop, namely, the concealed stagnant water. Indeed, my
opinion is, and its conviction has been forced upon me by long and extensive observation of
the state of the soil over a large part of the country--that this is the true cause of most
of the bad farming to be seen, and that not one farm is to be found throughout the kingdom
that would not be much the better for draining." --Vol. i. p. 483.

Draining is now truly regarded as a great national work, involving considerations of the highest
moment, and bearing upon some of the most vital questions of our national policy. It is a subject,
therefore, the practical discussion of which is of the greatest importance, especially in reference
to the mode in which it can be most efficiently and most cheaply done. Into these points, Mr.
Stephens enters minutely, and the course he prescribes is, we think, full of judgment. He explains
the Elkington mode of draining, and he gives due praise to the more recent improvements of
Mr. Smith of Deanston.

Every one knows how difficult it is to persuade our practical men to adopt any new method;
but even after you have satisfied them that the adoption of it will really do good to their
farms, it is almost as difficult to persuade them, that a partial adoption of the method, or
some alteration of it--as they fancy some improvement of it--will not best suit their land,
or the circumstances in which they are placed. Thus, one thinks, that a drain in each alternate
furrow is enough for his soil--that his drains need not be above twelve(!) or eighteen inches
deep--or that on his clay, the use of soles is a needless expense. On all these points, the
book before us gives confident opinions, with which we entirely coincide.

In regard to the depth of drains, it is shown, that in order that they may draw, they should
never be shallower than thirty inches, and should always leave a depth of eighteen inches clear
of the draining materials, in order that the subsoil and trench plough may have full freedom
of action, without risk of injury to the drain; while of the use of soles he says--

"I am a strenuous advocate for drainsoles in all cases; and even when they may really prove
of little use, I would rather use too many, than too few precautions in draining; because,
even in the most favourable circumstances, we cannot tell what change may take place beyond
our view, in the interior of a drain, which we are never again permitted, and which we have
no desire to see."

This passage expresses the true principle of safety, by which, in the outlay of large sums
of money for improvements, the landowner, and the holder of an improving lease, ought to be
actuated. Though great losses have already been incurred by shallow drains, and by the rejection
of soles, the practice, especially in the more backward districts, still goes on, and thousands
of pounds are still expended upon the principles of a false economy, in repetition of the same
faulty practice. We know of drainings now going on to a great extent, which will never permit
the use of the subsoil plough; and of the neglect of soles, upon soils generally of clay, but
here and there with patches of sand, into which the tiles must inevitably sink. When a person
drains his own land, of course reason is the only constraint by which he can be withheld from
doing as he likes with his own; or where a yearly tenant drains part of his farm at his own
expense, the risk is exclusively his, and his landlord, who perhaps refuses to give any effectual
aid, can have no right to dictate as to the mode in which the draining is to be performed;
but when the landlord contributes either directly or indirectly to the expense, he, or his
agent--if he has one who is skilful enough--should insist upon every thing being done according
to the most improved, which, in reality, are also ultimately the most economical principles.

While the draining thus proceeds on the best and most economical principles, the ploughing
is supposed to be still in progress. Indeed the arrangements for the two operations, the selection
and purchase of the implements for both, may go on simultaneously. The plough, indeed, is sometimes
used as a draining implement for making a deep furrow, in which, with more or less emendation
from the spade, the tiles or other draining materials may subsequently be laid. But in this
case, the draught is excessive, and many horses must often be yoked into the same plough, in
order to drag it through the ground. Here, therefore, the young farmer must learn a new art--the
art of harnessing and yoking his horses, in such a way as to obtain the greatest possible effect,
at the least expense, or with the smallest waste of animal strength. This is a very important
subject for consideration, and it is one which the author who is best acquainted with the practice,
and with the state of knowledge regarding it, over a great part of our island, will feel himself
most imperatively called upon to treat of in detail. This is done, accordingly, in the chapter
upon the "Yoking and Harnessing of the Plough," in which, by the able assistance of Mr. Slight,
the principles upon which these processes should be conducted, as well as the simplest, strongest,
and most economical methods, in actual practice among the most skilful farmers, are illustrated
and explained.

To this follows a chapter upon "Ploughing stubble and lea ground," in which, with the aid of
his two coadjutors, the practical and scientific questions involved in the general process
of ploughing such land, are discussed with equal skill and judgment. We have been particularly
pleased with the remarks of Mr. Slight upon ploughing-matches, (Vol. i. p. 651,) in reference
especially to the general disregard among judges, of the nature of the underground work, on
which so much of the good effects of ploughing in reality depends. They will, we doubt not,
have their due weight, at future ploughing-matches, among those--and we hope they will be many--into
whose hands the work before us may come.

Second in importance to draining only, are the subjects of "subsoil and trench ploughing,"
operations which are also to be performed at this season of the year--and a chapter upon which
concludes the first volume of Mr. Stephens's work. Those who are acquainted with the writings
of Mr. Smith of Deanston, and with the operations of the Marquis of Tweeddale at Yester, will
duly estimate the importance, not merely to the young farmer himself, but to the nation at
large, of proper instruction in regard to these two important operations--in the mode of economically
conducting them--in the principles upon which their beneficial action depends--and in the circumstances
by which the practical man ought to be regulated in putting the one or the other, or the one
rather than the other, in operation upon his own land. Our limits do not permit us to discuss
the relative merits of subsoil and trench ploughing, which by some writers have unwisely been
pitted against each other--as if they were in reality methods of improving the land, either
of which a man may equally adopt in any soil and under all circumstances. But they, in reality,
agree universally only in this one thing--that neither process will produce a permanently good
effect unless the land be previously thorough-drained. But being drained, the farmer must then
exercise a sound discretion, and Mr. Stephens's book will aid his judgment much in determining
which of the two subsequent methods he ought to adopt. The safer plan for the young farmer
would be to try one or two acres in each way, and in his after procedure upon the same kind
of land to be regulated by the result of this trial. Mr. Stephens expresses a decided opinion
in favour of trench-ploughing in the following passages:--

"I have no hesitation in expressing my preference of trench to subsoil ploughing: and I cannot
see a single instance, with the sole exception of turning up a very bad subsoil in large quantity,
in which there is any advantage attending subsoil, that cannot be enjoyed by trench ploughing:
and for this single drawback of a very bad subsoil, trenching has the advantage of being performed
in perfect safety, where subsoil ploughing could not be, without previous drainage.

"But whilst giving a preference to trench ploughing over subsoil, I am of opinion that it should
not be generally attempted under any circumstances, however favourable, without previous thorough-draining,
any more than subsoil ploughing; but when so drained, there is no mode of management, in my
opinion, that will render land so soon amenable to the means of putting it in a high degree
of fertility as trench ploughing."--Vol. i. p. 664.

We confess that, in the first of the above passages, Mr. Stephens appears to us to assume something
of the tone of a partizan, which has always the effect of lessening the weight of an author's
opinion with the intelligent reader who is in search of the truth only. What is advanced as
the main advantage of trench-ploughing in the first passage--that it can be safely done without
previous draining, is in the second wholly discarded by the advice, never to trench-plough
without previous draining. At the same time it is confessed, that in the case of a bad subsoil,
trench-ploughing may do much harm. Every practical man in fact knows that bringing up the subsoil
in any quantity, he would in some districts render his fields in a great measure unproductive
for years to come. On the other hand, we believe that the use of the subsoil-plough can never
do harm upon drained land. We speak, of course, of soils upon which it is already conceded
that either the one method or the other ought to be adopted. The utmost evil that can follow
in any such case from the use of the subsoil-plough, is that the expense will be thrown away--the
land cannot be rendered more unfruitful by it. Subsoiling, therefore, is the safer practice.

But in reality, there ought, as we have already stated, to be no opposition between the two
methods. Each has its own special uses for which it can be best employed, and the skill of
the farmer must be exercised in determining whether the circumstances in which he is placed
are such as to call specially for the one or for the other instrument. If the subsoil be a
rich black mould, or a continuation of the same alluvial or other fertile soil which forms
the surface--it may be turned up at once by the trench-plough without hesitation. Or, if the
subsoil be more or less full of lime, which has sunk from above, trenching may with equal safety
be adopted. But, if the subsoil be more or less ferruginous--if it be of that yellow unproductive
clay which in some cases extends over nearly whole counties--or of that hard, blue, stony till
which requires the aid of the mattock to work out of the drains--or if it consist of a hard
and stony, more or less impervious bed--in all these cases the use of the subsoil-plough is
clearly indicated. In short, the young farmer can scarcely have a safer rule than this--to
subsoil his land first, whenever there is a doubt of the soundness of the subsoil, or a fear
that by bringing it to the surface, the fertility of the upper soil will be diminished. It
is no reply to this safer practice to say that even Mr. Smith recommends turning up the subsoil
afterwards, and that we have therefore a double expense to incur. For it is known, that after
a time any subsoil so treated may be turned up with safety, and consequently there is no risk
of loss by delaying this deeper ploughing for a few years; and in regard to the question of
expense, it appears that the cost of both draining and subsoiling are generally repayed by
the first two or three crops which succeed each improvement. What more, then, can be required?
The expense is repaid--the land is, to a certain extent, permanently improved--no risk of loss
has been incurred, and there still remains to the improving farmer--improving his own circumstances,
as well as the quality of his land, by his prudent and skilful measures--there still remains
the deeper ploughing, by which he can gradually bring new soil to the surface, as he sees it
mellow, and become wholesome, under the joint influences which the drain and the subsoil-plough
have brought to bear upon it.

There can, therefore, it is clear, be no universal rule for the use of the two valuable instruments
in question, as each has its own defined sphere of action. This, we think, is the common-sense
view of the case. But if any one insists upon having a universal rule which shall save him
from thinking or observing for himself in all cases, then we should say--in all cases subsoil,
because it is the safer.

With this subject the first volume of The Book of the Farm is brought to a close; but winter
still continues, and in other winter-work of scarcely less importance the young farmer has
still to be instructed. We have hitherto said nothing of the more expensive and beautiful embellishments
of the book, because the most interesting of them are portraits of celebrated short-horns,
working horses, sheep, and pigs--a subject of which the author begins to treat only at the
commencement of the second volume. The feeding of stock is one of those parts of the winter's
labours, in improving husbandry, upon which not only the immediate profit of the farmer, but
the ultimate fertility of his land, in a great measure depends. The choice of his stock, and
the best mode of treating and tending them, therefore, are subjects of the greatest consequence
to the young farmer. In the choice of his stock he will be aided at once by the clear descriptions,
and by the portraits so beautifully executed by Landseer and Sheriff, by which the letterpress
is accompanied. In the subsequent treatment of them, and in the mode by which they may be most
profitably, most quickly, or most economically fed in the winter season, he will be fully instructed
in the succeeding chapters of the book.

Turnips and other roots are the principal food of cattle in the winter: a preliminary chapter,
therefore, is devoted to the "drawing and storing of turnips and other roots." Had we our article
to begin again, we could devote several pages, agreeably to ourselves, and not without interest,
we believe, or without instruction, to our reader, in discussing a few of those points connected
with the feeding of cattle, upon which, though the means of information are within their reach,
practical men have hitherto permitted themselves to remain wholly ignorant. Of these points
Mr. Stephens adverts to several, and suggests the advantage of additional experiments; but
the whole subject requires revision, and, under the guidance of persons able to direct, who
are acquainted with all that is yet known, or has as yet been done either in our own or in
foreign countries, experiments will hereafter, no doubt, be made, by which many new truths,
both theoretically and practically valuable, are sure to be elucidated.

We may advert, as an illustration, to the feeding properties of the turnip. It is usual to
reckon the value of a crop of turnips by the number of tons per acre which it is found to yield
when so many square yards of the produce are weighed. But this may be very fallacious in many
ways. If they are white turnips, for instance, nine tons of small will contain as much nourishment
as ten tons of large--or twenty-seven tons an acre of small turnips will feed as many sheep
as thirty tons per acre of large turnips. Or if the crop be Swedes, the reverse will be the
case, twenty-seven tons of large will feed as much stock as thirty tons of small.--(Vol. ii.,
p. 20.) Mr. Stephens points out other fallacies also, to which we cannot advert. One, however,
he has passed over, of equal, we believe of greater, consequence than any other--we allude
to the variable quantity of water which the turnip grown on different soils in different seasons
is found to contain.

It is obvious, that in so far as the roots of the turnip, the carrot, and the potatoe, consist
of water, they can serve the purposes of drink only--they cannot feed the animals to which
they are given. Now, the quantity of water in the turnip is so great, that 100 tons sometimes
contain only nine tons of dry feeding matter--more than nine-tenths of their weight consisting
of water. But again, their constitution is so variable, that 100 tons sometimes contain more
than twenty tons of dry food--or less than four-fifths of their weight of water. It is possible,
therefore, that one acre of turnips, on which only twenty tons are growing, may feed as many
sheep as another on which forty tons are produced. What, therefore, can be more uncertain than
the feeding value of an acre of turnips as estimated by the weight? How much in the dark are
buyers and sellers of this root? What wonder is there, that different writers should estimate
so very differently the weight of turnips which ought to be given for the purpose of sustaining
the condition, or of increasing the weight, of the several varieties of stock? Other roots
exhibit similar differences; and even the potatoe, while it sometimes contains thirty tons
of food in every hundred of raw roots, at others, contains no more than twenty--the same weight,
namely, which exists at times in the turnip. [4]

[Footnote 4: For our authority on this subject, we refer to Johnston's Suggestion for Experiments
in Practical Agriculture, No. 111. pp. 62 and 64, of which we have been favoured with an early
copy by the author.]

This latter fact, shows the very slippery ground on which the assertion rests, that has lately
astonished the weak minds of our Southern cattle-feeding brethren, from the mouth of one of
their talented but hasty lecturers--that the potatoe contains two or three times the weight
of nourishment which exists in the turnip. It is true that some varieties of potatoes contain
three times as much as some varieties of turnip--but, on the other hand, some turnips contain
as much nourishment as an equal weight of potatoes. But no man can tell, by bare inspection,
as yet, to which class of turnips, the more or less watery, his own may belong--whether that
which is apparently the most prolific may not in reality be the least so--whether that mode
of manuring his land which gives him the greatest weight of raw roots may not give him the
smallest weight of real substantial food for his stock. What a wide field, therefore, for experiment?
To what useful results might they not be expected to lead? If any of our readers wish to undertake
such experiments, or to learn how they are to be performed, we refer them to the pamphlet mentioned
in the note.

In connexion with the chapter "on the feeding of sheep," we could have wished to advert to
the advantages of shelter, in producing the largest weight of meat from a given weight of turnips,
or other food--as illustrated by the experiments of Mr. Childers, Lord Western, and others;
but we must refer our readers to the passage itself, (vol. ii. p. 51,) as we must also to the
no less important comparative view of the advantages of feeding cattle in close byres and in
open hammels, (vol. ii. p. 129,) and to the interesting details regarding the use of raw and
steamed food, contained in the chapter upon the feeding of cattle, (vol. ii. p. 120 to 148.)

But our author is so cunning in the qualities of mutton--which, as we have already seen, he
can "kill so gently," performing the operation without pain--that we think our readers will
enjoy the following passage:--

"The gigot is the handsomest and most valuable part of the carcass, and on that account fetches
the highest price. It is either a roasting or a boiling piece. Of black-faced mutton it makes
a fine roast, and the piece of fat in it called the pope's eye, is considered a delicate morceau
by epicures. A gigot of Leicester, Cheviot, or Southdown mutton makes a beautiful 'boiled leg
of mutton,' which is prized the more the fatter it is, as this part of the carcass is never
overloaded with fat. The loin is almost always roasted, the flap of the flank being skewered
up, and it is a juicy piece. For a small family, the black-faced mutton is preferable; for
a large, the Southdown and Cheviot. Many consider this piece of Leicester mutton roasted as
too rich, and when warm, this is probably the case; but a cold roast loin is an excellent summer
dish. The back-ribs are divided into two, and used for very different purposes. The fore-part,
the neck, is boiled and makes sweet barley-broth, and the meat, when well boiled, or rather
the whole pottage simmered for a considerable time beside the fire, eats tenderly. The back-ribs
make an excellent roast; indeed, there is not a sweeter or more varied one in the carcass,
having both ribs and shoulder. The shoulder-blade eats best cold, and the ribs warm. The ribs
make excellent chops. The Leicester and Southdowns afford the best mutton-chops. The breast
is mostly a roasting-piece, consisting of rib and shoulder, and is particularly good when cold.
When the piece is large, as of Southdown or Cheviot, the gristly part of the ribs may be divided
from the true ribs, and helped separately. The breast is an excellent piece in black-faced
mutton, and suitable to small families, the shoulder being eaten cold, while the ribs and brisket
are sweet and juicy when warm. This piece also boils well; or, when corned for eight days,
and served with onion sauce, with mashed turnip in it, there are few more savoury dishes at
a farmer's table. The shoulder is separated before being dressed, and makes an excellent roast
for family use, and may be eaten warm or cold, or corned and dressed as the breast mentioned
above. The shoulder is best from a large carcass of Southdown, Cheviot, or Leicester, the black-faced
being too thin for the purpose; and it was probably because English mutton is usually large
that the practice of removing it originated. The neckpiece is partly laid bare by the removal
of the shoulder, the fore-part being fitted for boiling and making into broth, and the best
end for roasting or broiling into chops. On this account this is a good family piece, and in
such request among the tradesmen of London that they prefer it to any part of the hind-quarter."--(Vol.
ii. p. 98.)

Nor is he less skilful in the humble food and cooking of the farm-labourer; indeed, he seems
never satisfied until he fairly exhausts all the useful matter contained in every subject upon
which he touches. He not only breeds, and feeds, and kills, and cooks, but he does the latter
with such relish, that we have several times fancied that we could actually see him eating
his own mutton, beef, and pork. We should not wonder if he is himself already nicked; and we
cannot more warmly testify our good wishes, than by expressing a hope, that, when he is fully
ripe, the grim surgeon will operate upon him without pain, and kill him gently.

One of Mr. Stephens's humbler dishes is the following:--

"The only time Scotch farm-servants indulge in butcher-meat is when a sheep falls, as it is
termed; that is, when it is killed before being affected with an unwholesome disease, and the
mutton is sold at a reduced price. Shred down the suet small, removing any flesh or cellular
membrane adhering to it; then mix amongst it intimately 1/2 oz. of salt and a tea-spoonful
of pepper to every pound of suet; put the mixture into an earthen jar, and tie up tightly with
bladder. One table spoonful of seasoned suet will, at any time, make good barley-broth or potato-soup
for two persons. The lean of the mutton may be shred down small, and seasoned in a similar
manner, and used when required; or it may be corned with salt, and used as a joint." --Vol.
ii. p. 105.

How much of the natural habits and manners of a country, and of the circumstances and inner
life of the various classes of its inhabitants, is to be learned from a study of their cookery!

Reader, what a mystery hangs over the handling of a fat beast! A feeder approaches a well filled
short-horn--he touches it here--he pinches it there--he declares it to have many good points
about it; but pronounces the existence of defects, where the uninitiated see only beauties.
The points of a fat ox, how mysterious they are, how difficult to make out! The five points
of Arminianism, our old vicar used to say, were nothing to them. But here, too, Mr. Stephens
is at home. Listen to his simple explanation of the whole:

"The first point usually handled is the end of the rump at the tail-head, although any fat
here is very obvious, and sometimes attains to an enormous size, amounting even to deformity.
The hook-bone gets a touch, and when well covered, is right.... To the hand, or rather to the
points of the fingers of the right hand, when laid upon the ribs, the flesh should feel soft
and thick and the form be round when all is right, but if the ribs are flat the flesh will
feel hard and thin from want of fat. The skin, too, on a rounded rib, will feel soft and mobile,
the hair deep and mossy, both indicative of a kindly disposition to lay on flesh. The hand
then grasps the flank, and finds it thick, when the existence of internal tallow is indicated....
The palm of the hand laid along the line of the back will point out any objectionable hard
piece on it, but if all is soft and pleasant, then the shoulder-top is good. A hollowness behind
the shoulder is a very common occurrence; but when it is filled up with a layer of fat, the
flesh of all the fore-quarter is thereby rendered very much more valuable. You would scarcely
believe that such a difference could exist in the flesh between a lean and a fat shoulder.
A high narrow shoulder is frequently attended with a ridged back-bone, and lowset narrow hooks,
a form which gets the appropriate name of razor-back, with which will always be found a deficiency
of flesh in all the upper part of the animal, where the best flesh always is. If the shoulder-point
is covered, and feels soft like the point of the hook-bone, it is good, and indicates a well
filled neck-vein, which runs from that point to the side of the head. The shoulder-point, however,
is often bare and prominent. When the neck-vein is so firmly filled up as not to permit the
points of the fingers inside of the shoulder-point, this indicates a well tallowed animal;
as also does the filling up between the brisket and inside of the fore legs, as well as a full,
projecting, well covered brisket in front. When the flesh comes down heavy upon the thighs,
making a sort of double thigh, it is called lyary, and indicates a tendency of the flesh to
grow on the lower instead of the upper part of the body. These are all the points that require
touching when the hand is used; and in a high-conditioned ox, they may be gone over very rapidly."--Vol.
ii. p. 165.

The treatment of horses follows that of cattle, and this chapter is fitted to be of extensive
use among our practical farmers. There are few subjects to which the attention of our small
farmers requires more to be drawn than to the treatment of their horses--few in which want
of skill causes a more general and constant waste. The economy of prepared food is ably treated
of, and we select the following passage as containing at once sound theoretical and important
practical truths:

"It appears at first sight somewhat surprising that the idea of preparing food for farm-horses
should only have been recently acted on; but I have no doubt that the practice of the turf
and of the road, of maintaining horses on large quantities of oats and dry ryegrass hay, has
had a powerful influence in retaining it on farms. But now that a more natural treatment has
been adopted by the owners of horses on fast work, farmers, having now the example of post-horses
standing their work well on prepared food, should easily be persuaded that, on slow work, the
same sort of food should have even a more salutary effect on their horses. How prevalent was
the notion, at one time, that horses could not be expected to do work at all, unless there
was hard meat in them! 'This is a very silly and erroneous idea, if we inquire into it,' as
Professor Dick truly observes, 'for whatever may be the consistency of the food when taken
into the stomach, it must, before the body can possibly derive any substantial support or benefit
from it, be converted into chyme--a pultacious mass; and this, as it passes onward from the
stomach into the intestinal canal, is rendered still more fluid by the admixture of the secretions
from the stomach, the liver, and the pancreas, when it becomes of a milky appearance, and is
called chyle. It is then taken into the system by the lacteals, and in this fluid, this soft
state--and in this state only--mixes with the blood, and passes through the circulating vessels
for the nourishment of the system.' Actuated by these rational principles, Mr. John Croall,
a large coach-proprietor in Edinburgh, now supports his coach horses on 8 lb. of chopped hay
and 16 lb. of bruised oats; so does Mr. Isaac Scott, a postmaster, who gives 10 lb. or 12 lb.
of chopped hay and 16 lb. of bruised oats, to large horses: and to carry the principle still
further into practice, Captain Cheyne found his post-horses work well on the following mixture,
the proportions of which are given for each horse every day; and this constitutes the second
of the formulæ alluded to above."

  In the day,
  8 lb. of bruised oats.
  3 lb. of bruised beans.
  4 lb. of chopped straw.
  ------
  15 lb.

  At night
    22 lb. of steamed potatoes.
  1-1/2 lb. of fine barley dust.
     2 lb. of chopped straw.
     2 oz. of salt.
  ----------
  25-1/2 lb.

"Estimating the barley-dust at 10d. per stone; chopped straw, 6d. per stone, potatoes, steamed,
at 7s. 6d. per cwt.; and the oats and beans at ordinary prices, the cost of supper was 6d.,
and for daily food, 1s. with cooking, in all 1s. 6d. a horse each day."--Vol. ii. p. 194.

The reader will also peruse with interest the following paragraph, illustrative at once of
the habits of the horse, and of our author's familiarity with the race:--

"The horse is an intelligent animal, and seems to delight in the society of man. It is remarked
by those who have much to do with blood-horses, that, when at liberty, and seeing two or more
people standing conversing together, they will approach, and seem, as it were, to wish to listen
to the conversation. The farm-horse will not do this; but he is quite obedient to call, and
distinguishes his name readily from that of his companion, and will not stir when desired to
stand until his own name is pronounced. He distinguishes the various sorts of work he is put
to, and will apply his strength and skill in the best way to effect his purpose, whether in
the thrashing-mill, the cart, or the plough. He soon acquires a perfect sense of his work.
I have seen a horse walk very steadily towards a feering pole, and halt when his head had reached
it. He seems also to have a sense of time. I have heard another neigh almost daily about ten
minutes before the time of loosening in the evening, whether in summer or winter. He is capable
of distinguishing the tones of the voice, whether spoken in anger or otherwise; and can even
distinguish between musical notes. The recognition of the sound of the bugle by a trooper,
and the excitement occasioned in the hunter when the pack give tongue, are familiar instances
of the extraordinary effects of particular sounds on horses."--Vol. ii. p. 216.

We recollect in our younger days, when we used to drive home from Penrith market, our friend
would say, "come, let us give the horse a song--he will go home so briskly with us." And it
really was so, or seemed so at least, be the principle what it may.

Pigs and poultry succeed to cattle and horses, and the author is equally at home in regard
to the management of these as of the more valued varieties of stock--as learned in their various
breeds, and as skilful in the methods of fattening, killing, and cutting up. How much truth
is contained in the following remarks, and how easily and usefully might the evil be amended:--

"Of all the animals reared on a farm, there are none so much neglected by the farmer, both
in regard to the selection of their kind, and their qualifications to fatten, as all the sorts
of domesticated fowls found in the farm-yard. Indeed, the very supposition that he would devote
any of his time to the consideration of poultry, is regarded as a positive affront on his manhood.
Women, in his estimation, may be fit enough for such a charge, and doubtless they would do
it well, provided they were not begrudged every particle of food bestowed upon those useful
creatures. The consequence is what might be expected in the circumstances, that go to most
farm-steads, and the surprise will be to meet a single fowl of any description in good condition,
that is to say, in such condition that it may be killed at the instant in a fit state for the
table, which it might be if it had been treated as a fattening animal from its birth."--Vol.
ii. p. 246.

The methods of fattening them are afterwards described; and for a mode of securing a new-laid
egg to breakfast every winter morning, a luxury which our author "enjoyed for as many years
as he lived in the country," we refer the reader to page 256 of the second volume.

Besides the feeding of stock, one other in-door labour demands the attention of the farmer,
when the severity of winter weather has put a stop to the ploughing and the draining of his
land. His grain crops are to be thrashed out, and sent to the market or the mill. In this part
of his work Mr. Stephens has again availed himself of the valuable assistance of Mr. Slight,
who, in upwards of 100 pages of closely printed matter, has figured and described nearly all
the more useful instruments employed in the preparation of the food of cattle, and in separating
the grain of the corn crops. The thrashing machine, so valuable an addition to the working
establishment of a modern farm-steading, is minutely explained--the varieties in its construction
illustrated by wood-cuts--and the respective merits of the different forms of the machine examined
and discussed. With the following, among his other conclusions, we cordially concur.

"I cannot view these two machines without feeling impressed with a conviction that both countries
would soon feel the advantage of an amalgamation between the two forms of the machine. The
drum of the Scotch thrashing-machine would most certainly be improved by a transfusion from
the principles of the English machine; and the latter might be equally improved by the adoption
of the manufacturing-like arrangements and general economy of the Scotch system of thrashing.
That such interchange will ere long take place, I am thoroughly convinced; and as I am alike
satisfied that the advantages would be mutual, it is to be hoped that these views will not
stand alone. It has not been lost sight of, that each machine may be said to be suited to the
system to which it belongs, and that here, where the corn is cut by the sickle, the machine
is adapted to that; while the same may be said of the other, where cutting by the scythe is
so much practised. Notwithstanding all this, there appears to be good properties in both that
either seems to stand in need of." --Vol. ii. p. 329.

Other scientific, especially chemical information, connected with the different varieties of
grain, and the kind and quantity of food they respectively yield, is incorporated in the chapters
upon "wheat, flour, and oat and bean meal," to which we can only advert, as further illustrations
of the intimate manner in which science and skilful or enlightened practice are invariably,
necessarily, and every where interwoven.

       *       *       *       *       *

And now the dreary months of winter are ended--and the labours of the farmer take a new direction.

  "Salvitur acris hiems gratâ vice veris et Favoni,"

       *       *       *       *       *

  "Ac neque jam stabulis gaudet pecus, aut arator igni."

But we cannot follow Mr. Stephens through the cheerful labours of the coming year. Our task
is so far ended, and from the way in which the whole of the long weeks of winter are described,
the reader must judge of Mr. Stephens's ability to lead him safely and surely through the rest
of the year.

A closing observation or two, however, we beg to offer. We look upon a good book on agriculture
as something more than a lucky speculation for the publisher, or a profitable occupation of
his time for the author. It is a gain to the community at large,--a new instrument of national
wealth. The first honour or praise in reference to every such instrument, is, no doubt, due
to the maker or inventor--but he who brings is into general use, merits also no little approbation.
Such is our case with respect to the book before us. We shall be glad to learn that our analysis
of it contributes to a wider circulation among the practical farmers of the empire, of the
manifold information which the book contains, not so much for the sake of the author, as with
a view to the common good of the country at large. It is to the more general diffusion of sound
agricultural literature among our farmers, that we look for that more rapid development of
the resources of our varied soils which the times so imperatively demand. To gain this end
no legitimate means ought to be passed by, and we have detained our readers so long upon the
book before us, in the hope that they may be induced to lend us their aid also in attaining
so desirable an object.

We do not consider The Book of the Farm a perfect work: the author indulges now and then in
loose and careless writing; and this incorrectness has more frequently struck us in the later
portions of the work, no doubt from the greater haste of composition. He sets out by slighting
the aids of science to agriculture; and yet, in an early part of his book, tells the young
farmer that he "must become acquainted with the agency of electricity before he can understand
the variations of the weather," and ends by making his book, as we have said, a running commentary
upon the truth we have already several times repeated, that SKILFUL PRACTICE IS APPLIED SCIENCE.

These, and no doubt other faults the book has--as what book is without them?--but as a practical
manual for those who wish to be good farmers, it is the best book we know. It contains more
of the practical applications of modern science, and adverts to more of those interesting questions
from which past improvements have sprung, and from the discussion of which future ameliorations
are likely to flow, than any other of the newer works which have come under our eye. Where
so many excellences exist, we are not ill-natured enough to magnify a few defects.

The excellence of Scottish agriculture may be said by some to give rise to the excellent agricultural
books which Scotland, time after time, has produced. But it may with equal truth be said, that
the existence of good books, and their diffusion among a reading population, are the sources
of the agricultural distinction possessed by the northern parts of the island. It is beyond
our power, as individuals, to convert the entire agricultural population of our islands into
a reading body, but we can avail ourselves of the tendency wherever it exists; and by writing,
or diffusing, or aiding to diffuse, good books, we can supply ready instruction to such as
now wish for it, and can put it in the way of those in whom other men, by other means, are
labouring to awaken the dormant desire for knowledge. Reader, do you wish to improve agriculture?
--then buy you a good book, and place it in the hands of your tenant or your neighbouring farmer;
if he be a reading man, he will thank you, and his children may live to bless you; if he be
not a reader, you may have the gratification of wakening a dormant spirit; and though you may
appear to be casting your bread upon the waters, yet you shall find it again after many days.

       *       *       *       *       *

POEMS AND BALLADS OF SCHILLER.

No. VII.

(The two following poems, "The Ideal," and, "The Ideal and Life," are essentially distinct
in their mode of treatment. The first is simple and tender, and expresses feelings in which
all can sympathize. As a recent and able critic, in the Foreign Quarterly Review, has observed,
this poem, "still little known, contains a regret for the period of youthful faith," and may
take its place among the most charming and pathetic of all those numberless effusions of genius
in which individual feeling is but the echo of the universal heart. But the poem on "The Ideal
and Life" is highly mystical and obscure;-- "it is a specimen," says the critic we have just
quoted, "of those poems which were the immediate results of Schiller's metaphysical studies.
Here the subject is purely supersensual, and does not descend to the earth at all. The very
tendency of the poem is to recommend a life not in the actual world, but in the world of appearances
[5]--that is, in the aesthetical world."

It requires considerable concentration of mind to follow its meaning through the cloud of its
dark and gigantic images. Schiller desired his friend Humboldt to read it in perfect stillness,
'and put away from him all that was profane.' Humboldt, of course, admired it prodigiously;
and it is unquestionably full of thought expressed with the power of the highest genius. But,
on the other hand, its philosophy, even for a Poet or Idealist, is more than disputable, and
it incurs the very worst fault which a Poet can commit, viz. obscurity of idea as well as expression.
When the Poet sets himself up for the teacher, he must not forget that the teacher's duty is
to be clear; and the higher the mystery he would expound, the more pains he should bestow on
the simplicity of the elucidation. For the true Poet does not address philosophical coteries,
but an eternal and universal public. Happily this fault is rare in Schiller, and more happily
still, his great mind did not long remain a groper amidst the 'Realm of Shadow.' The true Ideal
is quite as liable to be lost amidst the maze of metaphysics, as in the actual thoroughfares
of work-day life. A plunge into Kant may do more harm to a Poet than a walk through Fleet Street.
Goethe, than whom no man had ever more studied the elements of the diviner art, was right as
an artist in his dislike to the over-cultivation of the aesthetical. The domain of the Ideal
is the heart, and through the heart it operates on the soul. It grows feebler and dimmer in
proportion as it seeks to rise above human emotion.... Longinus does not err, when he asserts
that Passion (often erroneously translated Pathos) is the best part of the Sublime.)

[Footnote 5: Rather, according to Aesthetical Philosophy, is the actual world to be called
the world of appearances, and the Ideal the world of substance.]

TO THE IDEAL.

  Then wilt thou, with thy fancies holy--
    Wilt thou, faithless, fly from me?
  With thy joy, thy melancholy,
    Wilt thou thus relentless flee?
  O Golden Time, O Human May,
    Can nothing, Fleet One, thee restrain?
  Must thy sweet river glide away
    Into the eternal Ocean-Main?

  The suns serene are lost and vanish'd
    That wont the path of youth to gild,
  And all the fair Ideals banish'd
    From that wild heart they whilome fill'd.
  Gone the divine and sweet believing
    In dreams which Heaven itself unfurl'd!
  What godlike shapes have years bereaving
    Swept from this real work-day world!

  As once, with tearful passion fired,
    The Cyprian Sculptor clasp'd the stone,
  Till the cold cheeks, delight-inspired,
    Blush'd--to sweet life the marble grown;
  So Youth's desire for Nature!--round
    The Statue, so my arms I wreathed,
  Till warmth and life in mine it found
    And breath that poets breathe--it breathed.

  With my own burning thoughts it burn'd;--
    Its silence stirr'd to speech divine;--
  Its lips my glowing kiss return'd;--
    Its heart in beating answer'd mine!
  How fair was then the flower--the tree!--
    How silver-sweet the fountain's fall!
  The soulless had a soul to me!
    My life its own life lent to all!

  The Universe of Things seem'd swelling
    The panting heart to burst its bound,
  And wandering Fancy found a dwelling
    In every shape--thought--deed, and sound.
  Germ'd in the mystic buds, reposing,
    A whole creation slumber'd mute,
  Alas, when from the buds unclosing,
    How scant and blighted sprung the fruit!

  How happy in his dreaming error,
    His own gay valour for his wing,
  Of not one care as yet in terror,
    Did Youth upon his journey spring;
  Till floods of balm, through air's dominion,
    Bore upward to the faintest star--
  For never aught to that bright pinion
    Could dwell too high, or spread too far.

  Though laden with delight, how lightly
    The wanderer heavenward still could soar,
  And aye the ways of life how brightly
    The airy Pageant danced before!--
  Love, showering gifts (life's sweetest) down,
    Fortune, with golden garlands gay,
  And Fame, with starbeams for a crown,
    And Truth, whose dwelling is the Day.

  Ah! midway soon, lost evermore,
    Afar the blithe companions stray;
  In vain their faithless steps explore,
    As, one by one, they glide away.
  Fleet Fortune was the first escaper--
    The thirst for wisdom linger'd yet;
  But doubts with many a gloomy vapour
    The sun-shape of the Truth beset!

  The holy crown which Fame was wreathing,
    Behold! the mean man's temples wore!
  And but for one short spring-day breathing,
    Bloom'd Love--the Beautiful--no more!
  And ever stiller yet, and ever
    The barren path more lonely lay,
  Till waning Hope could scarcely quiver
    Along the darkly widening way.

  Who, loving, linger'd yet to guide me,
    When all her boon companions fled?
  Who stands consoling still beside me,
    And follows to the House of Dread?
  Thine, Friendship! thine, the hand so tender--
    Thine the balm dropping on the wound--
  Thy task--the load more light to render,
    O, earliest sought and soonest found!

  And thou, so pleased with her uniting
    To charm the soul-storm into peace,
  Sweet Toil![6] in toil itself delighting,
    That more it labor'd, less could cease:
  Though but by grains, thou aid'st the pile
    The vast Eternity uprears--
  At least thou strik'st from Time, the while,
    Life's debt--the minutes, days, and years![7]

[Footnote 6: That is to say--the Poet's occupation--The Ideal.]

[Footnote 7: Though the Ideal images of youth forsake us--the Ideal still remains to the Poet.--Nay,
it is his task and his companion; unlike the worldly fantasies of fortune--fame, and love--the
fantasies the Ideal creates are imperishable. While, as the occupation of his life, it pays
off the debt of time; as the exalter of life, it contributes to the building of eternity.]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE IDEAL AND THE ACTUAL LIFE.

The first title of this Poem was "The Realm of Shadow." Perhaps in the whole range of German
poetry there exists no poem which presents greater difficulties to the English translator.
The chief object of the present inadequate version has been to render the sense intelligible
as well as the words. The attempt stands in need of all the indulgence which the German scholar
will readily allow that a much abler translator might reasonably require.

  1

  For ever fair, for ever calm and bright,
  Life flies on plumage, zephyr-light,
    For those who on the Olympian hill rejoice--
  Moons wane, and races wither to the tomb,
  And 'mid the universal ruin, bloom
    The rosy days of Gods--
            With Man, the choice,
  Timid and anxious, hesitates between
    The sense's pleasure and the soul's content;
  While on celestial brows, aloft and sheen,
    The beams of both are blent.

  2

  Seek'st thou on earth the life of Gods to share,
  Safe in the Realm of Death?--beware
    To pluck the fruits that glitter to thine eye;
  Content thyself with gazing on their glow--
  Short are the joys Possession can bestow,
    And in Possession sweet Desire will die.
  'Twas not the ninefold chain of waves that bound
    Thy daughter, Ceres, to the Stygian river--
  She pluck'd the fruit of the unholy ground,
    And so--was Hell's for ever!

  [Footnote 8: "Die Gestalt"--Form, the Platonic Archetype.]

  4

  Here, bathed, Perfection, in thy purest ray,
  Free from the clogs and taints of clay,
    Hovers divine the Archetypal Man!
  Like those dim phantom ghosts of life that gleam
  And wander voiceless by the Stygian stream,
    While yet they stand in fields Elysian,
  Ere to the flesh the Immortal ones descend--
    If doubtful ever in the Actual life,
  Each contest--here a victory crowns the end
    Of every nobler strife.

  5

  Not from the strife itself to set thee free,
  But more to nerve--doth Victory
    Wave her rich garland from the Ideal clime.
  Whate'er thy wish, the Earth has no repose--
  Life still must drag thee onward as it flows,
    Whirling thee down the dancing surge of Time.
  But when the courage sinks beneath the dull
    Sense of its narrow limits--on the soul,
  Bright from the hill-tops of the Beautiful,
    Bursts the attainèd goal!

  6

  If worth thy while the glory and the strife
  Which fire the lists of Actual Life--
    The ardent rush to fortune or to fame,
  In the hot field where Strength and Valour are,
  And rolls the whirling, thunder of the car,
    And the world, breathless, eyes the glorious game--
  Then dare and strive--the prize can but belong
    To him whose valour o'er his tribe prevails;
  In life the victory only crowns the strong--
    He who is feeble fails.

  7

  But as some stream, when from its source it gushes,
  O'er rocks in storm and tumult rushes,
    And smooths its after course to bright repose,
  So, through the Shadow-Land of Beauty glides
  The Life Ideal--on sweet silver tides
    Glassing the day and night star as it flows--
  Here, contest is the interchange of Love,
    Here, rule is but the empire of the Grace;
  Gone every foe, Peace folds her wings above
    The holy, haunted place.

  8

  When through dead stone to breathe a soul of light,
  With the dull matter to unite
    The kindling genius, some great sculptor glows;
  Behold him straining every nerve intent--
  Behold how, o'er the subject element,
    The stately THOUGHT its march laborious goes.
  For never, save to Toil untiring, spoke
    The unwilling Truth from her mysterious well--
  The statute only to the chisel's stroke
    Wakes from its marble cell.

  9

  But onward to the Sphere of Beauty--go
  Onward, O Child of Art! and, lo,
    Out of the matter which thy pains control
  The Statue springs!--not as with  labour wrung
  From the hard block, but as from Nothing sprung--
    Airy and light--the offspring of the soul!
  The pangs, the cares, the weary toils it cost
    Leave not a trace when once the work is done--
  The artist's human frailty merged and lost
    In art's great victory won!

  10

  If human Sin confronts the rigid law
  Of perfect Truth and Virtue,[9] awe
    Seizes and saddens thee to see how far
  Beyond thy reach, Perfection;--if we test
  By the Ideal of the Good, the best,
    How mean our efforts and our actions are!
  This space between the Ideal of man's soul
    And man's achievement, who hath ever past?
  An ocean spreads between us and that goal,
    Where anchor ne'er was cast!

  11

  But fly the boundary of the Senses--live
  the Ideal life free Thought can give;
    And, lo, the gulf shall vanish, and the chill
  Of the soul's impotent despair be gone!
  And with divinity thou sharest the throne,
    Let but divinity become thy will!
  Scorn not the Law--permit its iron band
    The sense (it cannot chain the soul) to thrall.
  Let man no more the will of Jove withstand,
  And Jove the bolt lets fall!

  12

  If, in the woes of Actual Human Life--
  If thou could'st see the serpent strife
    Which the Greek Art has made divine in stone--
  Could'st see the writhing limbs, the livid cheek,
  Note every pang, and hearken every shriek
    Of some despairing lost Laocoon,
  The human nature would thyself subdue
    To share the human woe before thine eye--
  Thy cheek would pale, and all thy soul be true
    To Man's great Sympathy.

  13

  But in the Ideal realm, aloof and far,
  Where the calm Art's pure dwellers are,
    Lo, the Laocoon writhes, but does not groan.
  Here, no sharp grief the high emotion knows--
  Here, suffering's self is made divine, and shows
    The brave resolve of the firm soul alone:
  Here, lovely as the rainbow on the dew
    Of the spent thunder-cloud, to Art is given,
  Gleaming through Grief's dark veil, the peaceful blue
    Of the sweet Moral Heaven.

[Footnote 9: The Law, i.e. the Kantian ideal of Truth and Virtue. This stanza and the next
embody, perhaps with some exaggeration, the Kantian doctrine of morality.]

  14

  So, in the glorious parable, behold
  How, bow'd to mortal bonds, of old
    Life's dreary path divine Alcides trode:
  The hydra and the lion were his prey,
  And to restore the friend he loved to day,
    He went undaunted to the black-brow'd God;
  And all the torments and the labours sore
    Wroth Juno sent--meek majestic One,
  With patient spirit and unquailing, bore,
    Until the course was run--

  15

  Until the God cast down his garb of clay,
  And rent in hallowing flame away
    The mortal part from the divine--to soar
  To the empyreal air!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FAVOUR OF THE MOMENT.

  And so we find ourselves once more
    A ring, though varying yet serene,
  The wreaths of song we wove of yore
    Again we'll weave as fresh and green.
  But who the God to whom we bring
    The earliest tribute song can treasure?
  Him, first of all the Gods, we sing
    Whose blessing to ourselves is--pleasure!
  For boots it on the votive shrine
    That Ceres life itself bestows
  Or liberal Bacchus gives the wine
    That through the glass in purple glows--
  If still there come not from the heaven
    The spark that sets the hearth on flame;
  If to the soul no fire is given,
    And the sad heart remain the same?
  Sudden as from the clouds must fall,
    As from the lap of God, our bliss--
  And still the mightiest lord of all,
    Monarch of Time, the MOMENT is!
  Since endless Nature first began
    Whate'er of might the mind hath wrought--
  Whate'er of Godlike comes from Man
    Springs from one lightning-flash of thought!
  For years the marble block awaits
    The breath of life, beneath the soil--
  A happy thought the work creates,
    A moment's glance rewards the toil.
  As suns that weave from out their blaze
    The various colours round them given;
  As Iris, on her arch of rays,
    Hovers, and vanishes from heaven;
  So fair, so fleeting every prize--
    A lightning flash that shines and fades--
  The Moment's brightness gilds the skies
    And round the brightness close the shades.

EXPECTATION AND FULFILMENT.

  O'er ocean with a thousand masts sails on the young man bold--
  One boat, hard-rescued from the deep, draws into port the old!

       *       *       *       *       *

TO THE PROSELYTE--MAKER.

  "A little Earth from out the Earth, and I
    The Earth will move"--so said the sage divine;
  Out of myself one little moment try
    Myself to take;--succeed, and I am thine.

       *       *       *       *       *

VALUE AND WORTH.

  If thou hast something, bring thy goods, a fair return be
       thine!--
  If thou art something--bring thy soul, and interchange with mine.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FORTUNE-FAVOURED. [10]

[Footnote 10: The first verses in the original of this poem are placed as a motto on Goethe's
statue at Weimar.]

  Ah! happy He, upon whose birth each god
  Looks down in love, whose earliest sleep the bright
  Idalia cradles, whose young lips the rod
  Of eloquent Hermes kindles--to whose eyes,
  Scarce waken'd yet, Apollo steals in light,
  While on imperial brows Jove sets the seal of might.
  Godlike the lot ordain'd for him to share,
  He wins the garland ere be runs the race;
  He learns life's wisdom ere he knows life's care,
  And, without labour vanquish'd, smiles the Grace.
  Great is the man, I grant, whose strength of mind,
  Self-shapes its objects and subdues the Fates--
  Virtue subdues the Fates, but cannot bind
  The fickle Happiness, whose smile awaits
  Those who scarce seek it; nor can courage earn
  What the Grace showers not from her own free urn!

  From aught unworthy, the determined will
  Can guard the watchful spirit--there it ends.
  The all that's glorious from the heaven descends;
  As some sweet mistress loves us, freely still
  Come the spontaneous gifts of heaven!--Above
  Favour rules Jove, as it below rules Love!
  The Immortals have their bias!--Kindly they
  See the bright locks of youth enamour'd play,
  And where the glad one goes, shed gladness round the way.
  It is not they who boast the best to see,
  Whose eyes the holy apparitions bless;
  The stately light of their divinity
  Hath oft but shone the brightest on the blind;--
  And their choice spirit found its calm recess
  In the pure childhood of a simple mind.
  Unask'd they come--delighted to delude
  The expectation of our baffled Pride;
  No law can call their free steps to our side.
  Him whom He loves, the Sire of men and gods,
  (Selected from the marvelling multitude,)
  Bears on his eagle to his bright abodes;
  And showers, with partial hand and lavish, down
  The minstrel's laurel or the monarch's crown.

  Before the fortune-favour'd son of earth,
  Apollo walks--and, with his jocund mirth,
  The heart-enthralling Smiler of the skies.
  For him grey Neptune smooths the pliant wave--
  Harmless the waters for the ship that bore
  The Caesar and his fortunes to the shore!
  Charm'd, at his feet the crouching lion lies,
  To him his back the murmuring dolphin gave;
  His soul is born a sovereign o'er the strife--
  The lord of all the Beautful of Life;
  Where'er his presence in its calm has trod,
  It charms--it sways as some diviner god.

  Scorn not the Fortune-favour'd, that to him
  The light-won victory by the gods is given,
  Or that, as Paris, from the strife severe,
  The Venus draws her darling,--Whom the heaven
  So prospers, love so watches, I revere!
  And not the man upon whose eyes, with dim
  And baleful night, sits Fate. The Dorian lord,
  August Achilles, was not less divine
  That Vulcan wrought for him the shield and sword--
  That round the mortal hover'd all the hosts
  Of all Olympus--that his wrath to grace,
  The best and bravest of the Grecian race
  Fell by the Trojan steel, what time the ghosts
  Of souls untimely slain fled to the Stygian coasts.

  Scorn not the Beautiful--if it be fair,
  And yet seem useless in thy human sight.
  As scentless lilies in the loving air,
  Be they delighted--thou in them delight.
  If without use they shine, yet still the glow
  May thine own eyes enamour. Oh rejoice
  That heaven the gifts of Song showers down below--
  That what the muse hath taught him, the sweet voice
  Of the glad minstrel teaches thee!--the soul
  Which the god breathes in him, he can bestow
  In turn upon the listener--if his breast
  The blessing feel, thy heart is in that blessing blest.

  The busy mart let Justice still control,
  Weighing the guerdon to the toil!--What then?
  A god alone claims joy--all joy is his,
  Flushing with unsought light the cheeks of men.
  Where is no miracle, why there no bliss!
  Grow, change, and ripen all that mortal be,
  Shapen'd from form to form, by toiling time;
  The Blissful and the Beautiful are born
  Full grown, and ripen'd from Eternity--
  No gradual changes to their glorious prime,
  No childhood dwarfs them, and no age has worn.--
  Like Heaven's, each earthly Venus on the sight
  Comes, a dark birth, from out an endless sea;
  Like the first Pallas, in maturest might,
  Arm'd, from the Thunderer's brow, leaps forth each Thought of Light.

       *       *       *       *       *

We have now, with few exceptions, translated all the principal poems comprised in the third,
or maturest period of Schiller's life. We here pass back to the poems of his youth. The contrast
in tone, thought, and spirit, between the compositions of the first and the third period, in
the great poet's intellectual career, is sufficiently striking. In the former, there is little
of that majestic repose of strength so visible in the latter; but there is infinitely more
fire and action--more of that lavish and exuberant energy which characterized the earlier tales
of Lord Byron, and redeemed, in that wonderful master of animated and nervous style, a certain
poverty of conception by a vigour and gusto of execution, which no English poet, perhaps, has
ever surpassed. In his poems lies the life, and beats the heart, of Schiller. They conduct
us through the various stages of his spiritual education, and indicate each step in the progress.
In this division, effort is no less discernible than power--both in language and thought there
is a struggle at something not yet achieved, and not, perhaps, even yet definite and distinct
to the poet himself. Here may be traced, though softened by the charm of genius, (which softens
all things,) the splendid errors that belong to a passionate youth, and that give such distorted
grandeur to the giant melodrama of "The Robbers." But here are to be traced also, and in far
clearer characters, the man's strong heart, essentially human in its sympathies--the thoughtful
and earnest intellect, not yet equally developed with the fancy, but giving ample promise of
all it was destined to receive. In these earlier poems, extravagance is sufficiently noticeable--yet
never the sickly eccentricities of diseased weakness, but the exuberant overflowings of a young
Titan's strength. There is a distinction, which our critics do not always notice, between the
extravagance of a great genius, and the affectation of a pretty poet.

FIRST PERIOD

HECTOR AND ANCROMACHE. [11]

[Footnote 11: This and the following poem are, with some alterations, introduced in the play
of "The Robbers."]

  ANDROMACHE.

  Will Hector leave me for the fatal plain,
  Where, fierce with vengeance for Patroclus slain,
              Stalks Peleus' ruthless son?
  Who, when thou glidest amid the dark abodes,
  To hurl the spear and to revere the Gods,
              Shall teach shine Orphan One?

  HECTOR.

  Woman and wife belovèd--cease thy tears;
  My soul is nerved--the war-clang in my ears!
              Be mine in life to stand
  Troy's bulwark, fighting for our hearths--to go,
  In death, exulting to the streams below,
              Slain for my fatherland!

  ANDROMACHE.

  No more I hear thy martial footsteps fall--
  Thine arms shall hang, dull trophies, on the wall--
              Fallen the stem of Troy!
  Thou go'st where slow Cocytus wanders--where
  Love sinks in Lethe, and the sunless air
              Is dark to light and joy!

  HECTOR.

  Sinew and thought--yea, all I feel and think
  May in the silent sloth of Lethe sink,
              But my love not!
  Hark, the wild swarm is at the walls!--I hear!
  Gird on my sword--beloved one, dry the tear--
              Lethe for love is not!

AMALIA.

  Fair as an angel from his blessed hall--
    Of every fairest youth the fairest he!
  Heaven-mild his look, as maybeams when they fall,
    Or shine reflected from a clear blue sea!
  His kisses--feelings rife with paradise!
    Ev'n as two flames, one on the other driven--
  Ev'n as two harp-tones their melodious sighs
    Blend in some music that seems born of heaven;
  So rush'd, mix'd, melted--life with life united!
    Lips, cheeks burn'd, trembled--soul to soul was won!
  And earth and heaven seem'd chaos, as delighted
    Earth--heaven were blent round the belovèd one!
  Now, he is gone! vainly and wearily
    Groans the full heart, the yearning sorrow flows--
  Gone! and all zest of life, in one long sigh,
    Goes with him where he goes.

       *       *       *       *       *

TO LAURA.

THE MYSTERY OF REMINISCENCE. [12]

[Footnote 12: This most exquisite love-poem is founded on the Platonic
notion, that souls were united in a pre-existent state, that love is
the yearning of the spirit to reunite with the spirit with which it
formerly made one--and which it discovers on earth.
  As from the conquerors unresisted glaive,
  Flies, without strife subdued, the ready slave--
  So, when to life's unguarded fort, I see
  Thy gaze draw near and near triumphantly--
            Yields not my soul to thee?
  Oh yes, I learn'd in awe, when gazing there,
  How once one bright inseparate life we were,

  How once, one glorious essence as a God,
  Unmeasured space our chainless footsteps trode--
            All Nature our abode!
  Round us, in waters of delight, for ever
  Voluptuous flow'd the heavenly Nectar river;
  We were the master of the seal of things,
  And where the sunshine bathed Truth's mountain-springs
            Quiver'd our glancing wings.
  Weep for the godlike life we lost afar--
  Weep!--thou and I its scatter'd fragments are;
  And still the unconquer'd yearning we retain--
  Sigh to restore the rapture and the reign,
            And grow divine again.
  Therefore my soul doth from its lord depart,
  Because, beloved, its native home thou art;
  Because the twins recall the links they bore,
  And soul with soul, in the sweet kiss of yore,
            Meets and unites once more.
  Thou too--Ah, there thy gaze upon me dwells,
  And thy young blush the tender answer tells;
  Yes! with the dear relation still we thrill,
  Both lives--tho' exiles from the homeward hill--
            One life--all glowing still!

       *       *       *       *       *

TO LAURA.

(Rapture.)

  Laura--above this world methinks I fly,
  And feel the glow of some May-lighted sky,
      When thy looks beam on mine!
  And my soul drinks a more ethereal air,
  When mine own shape I see reflected there,
      In those blue eyes of thine!
  A lyre-sound from the Paradise afar,
  A harp-note trembling from some gracious star,
      Seems the wild ear to fill;
  And my muse feels the Golden Shepherd-hours,
  When from thy lips the silver music pours
      Slow, as against its will.
  I see the young Loves flutter on the wing--
  Move the charm'd trees, as when the Thracian's string
      Wild life to forests gave;
  Swifter the globe's swift circle seems to fly,
  When in the whirling dance thou glidest by,
      Light as a happy wave.
  Thy looks, when there love sheds the loving smile,
  Could from the senseless marble life beguile--
      Lend rocks a pulse divine;
  Into a dream my very being dies,
  I can but read--for ever read--thine eyes--
      Laura, sweet Laura, mine![13]

[Footnote 13: We confess we cannot admire the sagacity of those who have contended that Schiller's
passion for Laura was purely Platonic.]

       *       *       *       *       *

TO LAURA PLAYING.

  When o'er the chords thy fingers steal,
  A soulless statue now I feel,
      And now a soul set free!
  Sweet Sovereign! ruling over death and life--
  Seizes the heart, in a voluptuous strife
      As with a thousand strings--the SORCERY![14]

[Footnote 14: "The Sorcery."--In the original, Schiller has an allusion of very questionable
taste, and one which is very obscure to the general reader, to a conjurer of the name of Philadelphia
who exhibited before Frederick the Great.]

  Then the vassal airs that woo thee,
  Hush their low breath hearkening to thee.
  In delight and in devotion,
  Pausing from her whirling motion,
  Nature, in enchanted calm,
  Silently drinks the floating balm.
  Sorceress, her heart with thy tone
  Chaining--as thine eyes my own!

  O'er the transport-tumult driven,
    Doth the music gliding swim;
  From the strings, as from their heaven,
    Burst the new-born Seraphim.
  As when from Chaos' giant arms set free,
  'Mid the Creation-storm, exultingly
  Sprang sparkling thro' the dark the Orbs of Light--
  So streams the rich tone in melodious might.

  Soft-gliding now, as when o'er pebbles glancing,
    The silver wave goes dancing;
  Now with majestic swell, and strong,
  As thunder peals in organ-tones along;
    And now with stormy gush,
  As down the rock, in foam, the whirling torrents rush.
        To a whisper now
          Melts it amorously,
        Like the breeze through the bough
          Of the aspen tree;
    Heavily now, and with a mournful breath,
    Like midnight's wind along those wastes of death,
  Where Awe the wail of ghosts lamenting hears,
  And slow Cocytus trails the stream whose waves are tears.

  Speak, maiden, speak!--Oh, art thou one of those
  Spirits more lofty than our region knows?
  Should we in thine the mother-language seek
    Souls in Elysium speak?

FLOWERS.

  Children of Suns restored to youth,
    In purfled fields ye dwell,
  Rear'd to delight and joy--in sooth
    Kind Nature loves ye well!
  Broider'd with light the robes ye wear,
  And liberal Flora decks ye fair
    In gorgeous-colour'd pride.
  Yet woe--Spring's harmless infants--woe!
  Mourn, for ye wither while ye glow--
    Mourn for the soul denied!

  The sky-lark and the nightbird sing
    To you their hymns of love;
  And Sylphs that wanton on the wing,
    Embrace your blooms above.
  Woven for Love's soft pillow were
  The chalice crowns ye flushing bear,
    By the Idalian Queen.

  But me in vain my Fanny's [15] eyes
    Her mother hath forbidden;
  For in the buds I gather, lies
    Love's symbol-language hidden.
  Mute heralds of voluptuous pain,
  I touch ye--life--speech--heart--ye gain,
    And soul denied before.
  And silently your leaves enclose,
  The mightiest God in arch repose,
    Soft-cradled in the core.

[Footnote 15: Literally "Nanny."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BATTLE.

    Heavy and solemn,
      A cloudy column,
      Thro' the green plain they marching came!
  Measureless spread, like a table dread,
  For the wild grim dice of the iron game.
  The looks are bent on the shaking ground,
  And the heart beats loud with a knelling sound;
  Swift by the breasts that must bear the brunt,
  Gallops the Major along the front--
          "Halt!"
  And fetter'd they stand at the stark command,
  And the warriors, silent, halt!

    Proud in the blush of morning glowing,
  What on the hill-top shines in flowing?
  "See you the Foeman's banners waving?"
  "We see the Foeman's banners waving!"
  Now, God be with you, woman and child,
  Lustily hark to the music wild--
  The mighty trump and the mellow fife,
  Nerving the limbs to a stouter life;
  Thrilling they sound with their glorious tone,
  Thrilling they go, through the marrow and bone.
  Brothers, God grant when this life is o'er,
  In the life to come that we meet once more!
    See the smoke how the lightning is cleaving asunder!
  Hark the guns, peal on peal, how they boom in their thunder!
  From host to host, with kindling sound,
  The shouting signal circles round,
  Ay, shout it forth to life or death--
  Freer already breathes the breath!
  The war is waging, slaughter raging,
  And heavy through the reeking pall,
    The iron Death-dice fall!
  Nearer they close--foes upon foes
  "Ready!"--From square to square it goes,
    Down on the knee they sank,
  And the fire comes sharp from the foremost rank.
  Many a man to the earth it sent,
  Many a gap by the balls is rent--
  O'er the corpse before springs the hinder-man,
  That the line may not fail to the fearless van.
  To the right, to the left, and around and around,
  Death whirls in its dance on the bloody ground.
  The sun goes down on the burning fight,
  And over the host falls the brooding Night.
  Brothers, God grant when this life is o'er,
  In the life to come that we meet once more!
    The dead men lie bathed in the weltering blood,
  And the living are blent in the slippery flood,
  And the feet, as they reeling and sliding go,
  Stumble still on the corpses that sleep below.
  "What, Francis!" "Give Charlotte my last farewell."
  Wilder the slaughter roars, fierce and fell.
  "I'll give----Look, comrades, beware--beware
  How the bullets behind us are whirring there----
  I'll give thy Charlotte thy last farewell,
  Sleep soft! where death's seeds are the thickest sown,
  Goes the heart which thy silent heart leaves alone."

    Hark to the hoofs that galloping go!
      The Adjutants flying,--
    The horsemen press hard on the panting foe,
      Their thunder booms in dying--
                  Victory!
    The terror has seized on the dastards all,
      And their colours fall.
                  Victory!
    Closed is the brunt of the glorious fight.
    And the day, like a conqueror, bursts on the night.
    Trumpet and fife swelling choral along,
    The triumph already sweeps marching in song.
    Live--brothers--live!--and when this life is o'er,
    In the life to come may we meet once more!

       *       *       *       *       *

THE LAST OF THE SHEPHERDS.

CHAPTER I.

I wish I had lived in France in 1672! It was the age of romances in twenty volumes, and flowing
periwigs, and high-heeled shoes, and hoops, and elegance, and wit, and rouge, and literary
suppers, and gallantry, and devotion. What names are those of La Calprenède, and D'Urfé, and
De Scuderi, to be the idols and tutelary deities of a circulating library!--and Sevigné, to
conduct the fashionable correspondence of the Morning Post!--and Racine, to contribute to the
unacted drama!--and ladies skipping up the steepest parts of Parnassus, with petticoats well
tucked up, to show the beauty of their ankles, and their hands filled with artificial flowers--almost
as good as natural--to show the simplicity of their tastes! I wish I had lived in France in
1672; for in that year Madame Deshoulieres, who had already been voted the tenth muse by all
the freeholders of Pieria, and whose pastorals were lisped by all the fashionable shepherdesses
in Paris, left the flowery banks of the Seine to rejoin her husband. Monsieur Deshoulieres
was in Guyenne; Madame Deshoulieres went into Dauphiné. Matrimony seems to be rather hurtful
to geographical studies, but Madame Deshoulieres was a poetess; and in spite of the thirty-eight
summers that shaded the lustre of her cheek, she was beautiful, and was still in the glow of
youth by her grace and her talent, and--her heart. Wherever she moved she left crowds of Corydons
and Alexises; but, luckily for M. Deshoulieres, their whole conversation was about sheep.

The two Mesdemoiselles Deshoulieres, Madeleine and Bribri, were beautiful girls of seventeen
or eighteen, brought up in all the innocent pastoralism of their mother. They believed in all
the poetical descriptions they read in her eclogues. They expected to see shepherds playing
on their pipes, and shepherdesses dancing, and naiads reclining on the shady banks of clear-running
rivers. They were delighted to get out of the prosaic atmosphere of Paris, and all the three
were overjoyed when they sprang from their carriage, one evening in May, at the chateau of
Madame d'Urtis on the banks of the Lignon. Though there were occasional showers at that season,
the mornings were splendid; and accordingly the travellers were up almost by daylight, to tread
the grass still trembling 'neath the steps of Astrea--to see the fountain, that mirror where
the shepherdesses wove wild-flowers into their hair--and to explore the wood, still vocal with
the complaints of Celadon. In one of their first excursions, Madeleine Deshoulieres, impatient
to see some of the scenes so gracefully described by her mother, asked if they were really
not to encounter a single shepherd on the banks of the Lignon? Madame Deshoulieres perceived,
at no great distance, a herdsman and cow-girl playing at chuckfarthing; and, after a pause,
replied--

  "Behold upon the verdant grass so sweet,
  The shepherdess is at her shepherd's feet!
  Her arms are bare, her foot is small and white,
  The very oxen wonder at the sight;
  Her locks half bound, half floating in the air,
  And gown as light as those that satyrs wear."

While these lines were given in Madame Deshoulieres' inimitable recitative, the party had come
close to the rustic pair. "People may well say," muttered Madeleine, "that the pictures of
Nature are always best at a distance. Can it be possible that this is a shepherdess--a shepherdess
of Lignon?" The shepherdess was in reality a poor little peasant girl, unkempt, unshorn, with
hands of prodigious size, a miraculous squint, and a mouth which probably had a beginning,
but of which it was impossible to say where it might end. The shepherd was worthy of his companion;
and yet there was something in the extravagant stupidity of his fat and florid countenance
that was interesting to a Parisian eye. Madame Deshoulieres, who was too much occupied with
the verses of the great D'Urfé to attend to what was before her, continued her description--

  "The birds all round her praises ever sing,
  And 'neath her steps the flowers incessant spring."

"Your occupation here is delightful, isn't it?" said Madeleine to the peasant girl.

"No, 'tain't, miss--that it ain't. I gets nothink for all I does, and when I goes hoam at night
I gets a good licking to the bargain."

"And you?" enquired Madeleine, turning to the herdsman, who was slinking off.

"I'm a little b-b-b-etter off nor hur," said the man, stuttering, "for I gets board and lodging--dasht
if I doesn't--but I gets bread like a stone, and s-s-sleeps below a hedge--dasht if I doesn't."

"But where are your sheep, shepherd?" said Bribri.

"Hain't a got none," stuttered the man again, "dasht if I has."

"What!" exclaimed Madeleine in despair, "am I not to see the lovely lambkins bleating and skipping
in the meadows on the banks of the Lignon, O Celadon?"

But Madame Deshoulieres was too much of a poetess to hear or see what was going on. She thought
of nothing but the loves of Astrea, and heard nothing but the imaginary songs of contending Damons.

On their return to the chateau, Madeleine and Bribri complained that they had seen neither
flock nor shepherdess.

"And are you anxious to see them?" enquired Madame D'Urtis, with a smile.

"Oh, very," exclaimed Bribri; "we expected to live like shepherdesses when we came here. I
have brought every thing a rustic wants."

"And so have I," continued Madeleine; "I have brought twenty yards of rose-coloured ribands,
and twenty yards of blue, to ornament my crook and the handsomest of my ewes."

"Well then," said the Duchess d'Urtis, good-naturedly, "there are a dozen of sheep feeding
at the end of the park. Take the key of the gate, and drive them into the meadows beyond."

Madeleine and Bribri were wild with joy, while their mother was labouring in search of a rhyme,
and did not attend to the real eclogue which was about to be commenced. They scarcely took
time to breakfast.--"They dressed themselves coquettishly"--so Madame Deshoulieres wrote to
Mascaron--"they cut with their own hands a crook a-piece in the park--they beautified them
with ribands. Madeleine was for the blue ribands, Bribri for the rose colour. Oh, the gentle
shepherdesses! they spent a whole hour in finding a name they liked. At last, Madeleine fixed
on Amaranthe, Bribri on Daphnè. I have just seen them gliding among the trees that overshadow
the lovely stream.--Poor shepherdesses! be on your guard against the wolves."

At noon that very day Madeleine and Bribri, or rather Amaranthe and Daphnè, in grey silk petticoats
and satin bodies, with their beautiful hair in a state of most careful disorder, and with their
crooks in hand, conducted the twelve sheep out of the park into the meadows. The flock, which
seemed to be very hungry, were rather troublesome and disobedient. The shepherdesses did all
they could to keep them in the proper path. It was a delicious mixture of bleatings, and laughter,
and baaings, and pastoral songs. The happy girls inhaled the soul of nature, as their poetical
mamma expressed it. They ran--they threw themselves on the blooming grass--they looked at themselves
in the limpid waters of the Lignon--they gathered lapfulls of primroses. The flock made the
best use of their time; and every now and then a sheep of more observation than the rest, perceiving
they were guarded by such extraordinary shepherdesses, took half an hour's diversion among
the fresh-springing corn.

"That's one of yours," said Amaranthe.

"No; 'tis yours," replied Daphnè; but, by way of having no difficulties in future, they resolved
to divide the flock, and ornament one-half with blue collars, and the other with rose-colour.
And they gave a name also to each of the members of their flock, such as Meliboeus, and Jeannot,
and Robin, and Blanchette. Twelve more poetical sheep were never fed on grass before. When
the sun began to sink, the shepherdesses brought back their flocks. Madame Deshoulieres cried
with joy. "Oh, my dear girls!" she said, kissing their fair foreheads; "it is you that have
composed an eclogue, and not I."

"Nothing is wanting to the picture," said the Duchess, seating herself under the willows of
the watering-place, and admiring the graceful girls.

"I think we want a dog," said Daphnè.

"No; we are rather in want of a wolf," whispered the beautiful Amaranthe--and blushed.

CHAPTER II.

Not far from the Chateau d'Urtis, the old manor-house of Langevy raised its pointed turrets
above the surrounding woods. There, in complete isolation from the world, lived Monsieur de
Langevy, his old mother, and his young son. M. de Langevy had struggled against the storms
and misfortunes of human life; he now reposed in the bosom of solitude, with many a regret
over his wife and his youth--his valiant sword and his adventures. His son, Hector Henri de
Langevy, had studied under the Jesuits at Lyons till he was eighteen. Accustomed to the indulgent
tenderness of his grandmother, he had returned, about two years before, determined to live
in his quiet home without troubling himself about the military glories that had inspired his
father. M. de Langevy, though he disapproved of the youth's choice, did not interfere with
it, except that he insisted on his sometimes following the chase, as the next best occupation
to actual war. The chase had few charms for Hector. It perhaps might have had more, if he had
not been forced to arm himself with an enormous fowling-piece that had belonged to one of his
ancestors, the very sight of which alarmed him a mighty deal more than the game. He was so
prodigious a sportsman, that, after six months' practice, he was startled as much as ever by
the whirr of a partridge. But don't imagine, on this account, that Hector's time was utterly
wasted. He mused and dreamed, and fancied it would be so pleasant to be in love; for he was
at that golden age--the only golden age the world has ever seen--when the heart passes from
vision to vision (as the bee from flower to flower)--and wanders, in its dreams of hope, from
earth to heaven, from sunshine to shade--from warbling groves to sighing maidens. But alas!
the heart of Hector searched in vain for sighing maidens in the woods of Langevy. In the chateau,
there was no one but an old housekeeper, who had probably not sighed for thirty years, and
a chubby scullion-maid--all unworthy of a soul that dreamed romances on the banks of the Lignon.
He counted greatly on a cousin from Paris, who had promised them a visit in the spring. In
the meantime, he paced up and down with a gun on his shoulder, pretending to be a sportsman--happy
in his hopes, happy in the clear sunshine, happy because he knew no better--as happens to a
great many other people in the gay days of their youth, in this most unjustly condemned and
vilipended world. And now you will probably guess what occurred one day he was walking in his
usual dreamy state of abstraction, and as nearly as possible tumbled head foremost into the
Lignon. By dint of marching straight on, without minding either hedge or ditch, he found himself,
when he awakened from his reverie, with his right foot raised, in the very act of stepping
off the bank into the water. He stood stock-still, in that somewhat unpicturesque attitude--his
mouth wide open, his eyes strained, and his cheek glowing with all the colours of the rainbow.
He had caught a glimpse of our two enchanting shepherdesses on the other side of the stream,
who were watching his movements by stealth. He blushed far redder than he had ever done before,
and hesitated whether he should retreat or advance. To retreat, he felt, would look rather
awkward: at the same time, he thought it would be too great a price to pay for his honour to
jump into the river. And, besides, even if he got over to the other side, would he have courage
to speak to them? Altogether, I think he acted more wisely, though less chivalrously, than
some might have done in his place. He laid down his gun, and seated himself on the bank, and
looked at the sheep as they fed on the opposite side. At twenty years of age, love travels
at an amazing pace; and Hector felt that he was already over head and ears with one of the
fair shepherdesses. He did not stop to examine which of them it was; it was of no consequence--sufficient
for him that he knew he was in love--gone--captivated. If he had been twenty years older, he
would perhaps have admired them both: it would have been less romantic, but decidedly more wise.

It is not to be denied that Amaranthe and Daphnè blushed a little, too, at this sort of half
meeting with Hector. They hung down their heads in the most captivating manner, and continued
silent for some time. But at last Amaranthe, more lively than her sister, recommenced her chatter.
"Look, Bribri," she said--"Daphnè I mean--he is one of the silvan deities, or perhaps Narcissus
looking at himself in the water."

"Rather say, looking at you," replied Daphnè, with a blush.

"'Tis Pan hiding himself in the oziers till you are metamorphosed into a flute, dear Daphnè."

"Not so, fair sister," replied Daphnè; "'tis Endymion in pursuit of the shepherdess Amaranthe."

"At his present pace, the pursuit will last some time. If he weren't quite so rustic, he would
be a captivating shepherd, with his long brown ringlets. He has not moved for an hour. What
if he has taken root like a hamadryad?"

"Poor fellow!" said Daphnè, in the simplest tone in the world; "he looks very dull all by himself."

"He must come over to us--that's very plain. We will give him a crook and a bouquet of flowers."

"Oh, just the thing!" exclaimed the innocent Daphnè. "We need a shepherd: and yet, no, no"--she
added, for she was a little jealous of her sister--"'tis a lucky thing there is river between us."

"I hope he will find a bridge per passa lou riou d'amor."

Now, just at that moment Hector's mind was set on passing the river of Love. In casting his
eyes all round in search of a passage, he perceived an old willow half thrown across the stream.
With a little courage and activity, it was a graceful and poetical bridge. Hector resolved
to try it. He rose and went right onward towards the tree; but, when he arrived, he couldn't
help reflecting that, at that season, the river was immensely deep. He disdained the danger--sprang
lightly up the trunk, and flung himself along one of the branches, dropping, happily without
any accident, on the meadow of the Chateau d'Urtis. Little more was left for him to do; and
that little he did. He went towards the fair shepherdesses. He tried to overcome his timidity--he
overwhelmed the first sheep of the flock with his insidious caresses--and then, finding himself
within a few feet of Amaranthe--he bowed, and smiled, and said, "Mademoiselle."

He was suddenly interrupted by a clear and silvery voice.

"There are no Mesdemoiselles here--there are only two shepherdesses, Amaranthe and Daphnè."

Hector had prepared a complimentary speech for a young lady attending a flock of sheep--but
he hadn't a word to say to a shepherdess.

He bowed again, and there was a pause.

"Fair Amaranthe," he said--"and fair Daphnè, will you permit a mortal to tread these flowery
plains?"

Amaranthe received the speech with a smile, in which a little raillery was mingled. "You speak
like a true shepherd," she said.

But Daphnè was more good-natured, and more touched with the politeness of the sportsman. She
cast her eyes on the ground and blushed.

"Oh--if you wish to pass through these meadows," she said--"we shall be"--

"We were going to do the honours of our reception room," continued Amaranthe, "and offer you
a seat on the grass."

"'Tis too much happiness to throw myself at your feet," replied Hector, casting himself on
one knee.

But he had not looked where he knelt, and he broke Daphnè's crook.

"Oh, my poor crook!" she said--and sighed.

"What have I done?" cried Hector. "I am distressed at my stupidity--I will cut you another
from the ash grove below. But you loved this crook," he added--"the gift, perhaps, of some
shepherd--some shepherd? --no, some prince; for you yourselves are princesses--or fairies."

"We are nothing but simple shepherdesses," said Amaranthe.

"You are nothing but beautiful young ladies from the capital," said Hector, "on a visit at
the Chateau d'Urtis. Heaven be praised--for in my walks I shall at least catch glimpses of
you at a distance, if I dare not come near. I shall see you glinting among the trees like enchantresses
of old."

"Yes, we are Parisians, as you have guessed--but retired for ever from the world and its deceitful
joys."

Amaranthe had uttered the last words in a declamatory tone; you might have thought them a quotation
from her mamma.

"You complain rather early, methinks," replied Hector, with a smile; "have you indeed much
fault to find with the world?"

"That is our secret, fair sportsman," answered Amaranthe; "but it seems you also live retired--an
eremite forlorn."

"I? fair Amaranthe? I have done nothing but dream of the delights of a shepherd's life--though
I confess I had given up all hopes of seeing a good-looking shepherdess--but now I shall go
back more happily than ever to my day-dreams. Ah! why can't I help you to guard your flock?"

The two young girls did not know what to say to this proposition. Daphnè at last replied--

"Our flock is very small--and quite ill enough attended to as it is."

"What joy for me to become Daphnis--to sing to you, and gather roses, and twine them in your hair!"

"Let us say no more," interrupted Amaranthe, a little disquieted at the sudden ardour of Daphnis;
"the sun is going down: we must return to the park. Adieu," she added, rising to go away.

"Adieu, Daphnis!" murmured the tender Daphnè, confused and blushing.

Hector did not dare to follow them. He stood for a quarter of an hour with his eyes fixed first
on them, and then on the door of the park. His heart beat violently, his whole soul pursued
the steps of the shepherdesses.

"'Adieu, Daphnis,' the lovely Daphnè said to me. I hear her sweet voice still! How beautiful
she is! how beautiful they are, both--Amaranthe is more graceful, but Daphnè is more winning--bright
eyes--white hands! sweet smiles! and the delicious dress, so simple, yet so captivating! the
white corset that I could not venture to look at--the gown of silk that couldn't hide the points
of the charming little feet. 'Tis witchery--enchantment--Venus and Diana--I shall inevitably
go mad. Ah, cousin! you ought to have come long ago, and all this might never have occurred."

The sun had sunk behind a bed of clouds--the nightingale began its song, and the fresh green
leaves rustled beneath the mild breath of the evening breeze. The bee hummed joyously on its
homeward way, loaded with the sweets of the spring flowers. Down in the valley, the voice of
the hinds driving their herds to rest, increased the rustic concert; the river rippled on beneath
the mysterious shade of old fantastic trees, and the air was filled with soft noises, and rich
perfumes, and the voice of birds. There was no room in Hector's heart for all these natural
enjoyments. "To-morrow," he said, kissing the broken crook--"I will come back again to-morrow."

CHAPTER III.

Early in the following morning, Hector wandered along the banks of the Lignon, with a fresh-cut
crook in his hand. He looked to the door of the Park d'Urtis, expecting every moment to see
the glorious apparitions of the day before. And at stroke of noon, a lamb rushing through the
gate, careered along the meadow, and the eleven others ran gayly after it, amidst a peal of
musical laughter from Amaranthe. Daphnè did not laugh.

The moment she crossed the threshold, she glanced stealthily towards the river. "I thought
so," she murmured; "Daphnis has come back." And Daphnis, in a transport of joy, was hurrying
to the shepherdesses, when he was suddenly interrupted by Madame Deshoulieres and the Duchess
d'Urtis. When the sisters had returned, on the evening before, Amaranthe, to Daphnè's great
discomfiture, had told word for word all that had occurred; how that a young sportsman had
joined them, and how they had talked and laughed; and Madame d'Urtis had no doubt, from the
description, that it was Hector de Langevy. Amaranthe having added to the story, that she felt
certain, in spite of Daphnè's declarations to the contrary, that he would meet them again,
the seniors had determined to watch the result. Hector would fain have made his escape; two
ladies he might have faced, but four!--and two of them above thirty years of age! 'Twas too
much; but his retreat was instantly cut off. He stood at bay, blushed with all his might, but
saluted the ladies as manfully as if he had been a page. He received three most gracious curtsies
in return--only three; for Daphnè wished to pass on without taking any notice--which he considered
a very favourable omen. He did not know how to begin a conversation; and besides, he began
to get confused; and his blushing increased to a most alarming extent--and--in short--he held
out his crook to Daphnè. As that young shepherdess had no crook of her own, and did not know
how to refuse the one he offered, she took it, though her hand trenbled a little, and looked
at Madame Deshoulieres.

"I broke your crook yesterday, fair Daphnè," said Hector, "but it is not lost. I shall make
a relic of it--more precious than--than--", but the bones of the particular saint he was about
to name stuck in his throat and he was silent.

"Monsieur de Langevy," said Madam d'Urtis kindly, "since you make such a point of aiding these
shepherdesses in guarding the flock, I hope in an hour you will accompany them to the castle
to lunch."

"I'll go with them wherever you allow me, madam," said Hector. (I wonder if the impudent fellow
thought he had the permission of the young ones already.)

"Let that be settled then," said the Duchess. "I shall go and have the butter cooled, and the
curds made--a simple lunch, as befits the guests."

"The fare of shepherds!" said Madame Deshoulieres, and immediately set out in search of a rhyme.

Daphnè had walked slowly on, pressing the crook involuntarily to her heart, and arrived at
the river side, impelled by a desire for solitude, without knowing why. There are some mysterious
influences to which damsels of seventeen seem particularly subject. A lamb--the gentlest of
the flock, which had become accustomed to her caresses--had followed her like a dog. She passed
her small hand lightly over the snowy neck of the favourite, and looked round to see what the
party she had left were doing. She was astonished to see her mother and Hector conversing,
as if they had been acquainted for ages, while Madame d'Urtis and Amaranthe were running a
race towards the park. She sat down on the grassy bank, exactly opposite the oziers where she
had seen Hector the preceding day. When she felt she was quite alone, she ventured to look
at the crook. It was a branch of ash of good size, ornamented with a rustic bouquet and a bunch
of ribands, not very skilfully tied. Daphnè was just going to improve the knot, when she saw
a billet hid in the flowers. What should she do?--read it? That were dangerous; her confessor
did not allow such venialities--her mamma would be enraged--some people are so fond of monopolies--and
besides, she might be discovered. 'Twould be better, then, not to read it--a much simpler proceeding;
for couldn't she nearly guess what was in it? And what did she care what was in it? Not to
read it was evidently the safer mode; and accordingly she--read it through and through, and
blushed and smiled, and read it through and through again. It was none of your commonplace
prosaic epistles--'twas all poetry, all fire; her mamma would have been enchanted if the verses
had only been addressed to her. Here they are:--

  "My sweetest hour, my happiest day,
  Was in the happy month of May!
  The happy dreams that round me lay
  On that delicious morn of May!"

  "I saw thee! loved thee! If my love
  A tribute unrejected be,
  The happiest day of May shall prove
  The happiest of my life to me!"

It is quite evident that if such an open declaration had been made in plain prose, Daphnè would
have been angry; but in verse, 'twas nothing but a poetical license. Instead, therefore, of
tearing it in pieces, and throwing it into the water, she folded it carefully up, and placed
it in the pretty corset of white satin, which seems the natural escritoire of a shepherdess
in her teens. Scarcely had she closed the drawer, and double locked it, when she saw at her
side--Hector and Madame Deshoulieres.

"My poor child," said the poetess, "how thoughtful you seem on Lignon's flowery side--forgetful
of your sheep--"

  'That o'er the meadows negligently stray!'

Monsieur de Langevy, as you have given her a crook, methinks you ought to aid her in her duties
in watching the flock.  As for myself, I must be off to finish a letter to my bishop.

  'From Lignon's famous banks
   What can I find to say?
   The breezes freshly springing,
   Make me--and nature--gay.
   When Celadon would weep;
   His lost Astrea fair,
   To Lignon he would creep,
   But oh! this joyous air
   Would force to skip and leap
   A dragon in despair!'--&c. &c.

Madame Deshoulieres had no prudish notions, you will perceive, about a flirtation--provided
it was carried on with the airs and graces of the Hotel Rambouillet. She merely, therefore,
interposed a word here and there, to show that she was present. Daphne, who scarcely said a
word to Hector, took good care to answer every time her mamma spoke to her. To be sure, it
detracts a little from this filial merit, that she did not know what she said. But if all parties
were pleased, I don't see what possible right anybody else has to find fault.

The shepherdess Daphnè, or rather Bribri Deshoulieres, as we have seen, was beautiful, and
simple, and tender--beautiful from the admirable sweetness of her expression--simple, as young
girls are simple: that is to say, with a small spice of mischief to relieve the insipidity--and
tender, with a smile that seems to open the heart as well as the lips. What struck people in
her expression at first, was a shade of sadness over her features--a fatal presentiment, as
it were, that added infinitely to her charm.  Her sister was more beautiful, perhaps--had richer
roses on her cheek, and more of what is called manner altogether--but if Amaranthe pleased
the eyes, Daphnè captivated the heart; and as the eyes are evidently subordinate to the heart,
Daphne carried the day. Hector accordingly, on the first burst of his admiration, had seen
nothing but Amaranthe; but when he had left the sisters, it was astonishing how exclusively
he thought of Daphnè.

CHAPTER IV.

The castle clock sounded the hour of luncheon. Hector offered his arm to Madame Deshoulieres;
Daphnè called her flock. They entered the park, and were joined by the Duchess d'Urtis and
Amaranthe. The collation was magnificent. First course, an omelette au jambon, entrèe cakes,
and fresh butter; second course, a superb cream cheese. Dessert, a trifle and preserves. All
these interesting details are embalmed in the poetic correspondence of Madame Deshoulieres,
in which every dish was duly chronicled for the edification of her friends.

At nightfall--for Hector lingered as long as he could--the young shepherd quitted the party
with great regret; but there was no time to lose, for he had two leagues to go, and there was
no moon, and the roads were still broken into immense ruts by the equinoctial rains. On the
following day, Hector returned to the Chateau d'Urtis through the meadow. When he arrived near
the willow that served for his bridge across the river, he was surprised to see neither shepherdess
nor flock in the field. He tripped across the tree, lamenting the bad omen; but scarcely had
he reached the other side when he saw some sheep straggling here and there. He rushed towards
them, amazed at not seeing either Amaranthe or Daphnè; and what was his enchantment when, on
advancing a little further, he perceived his adored shepherdess by the margin of the Lignon,
which at that point formed a pretty little cascade. The tender Daphnè had thrown her beautiful
arm round one of the young willows in flower, and, trusting to its support, leaned gracefully
over the waterfall, in the shadow of its odoriferous leaves. She had allowed her soul to wander
in one of those delicious reveries, of which the thread--broken and renewed a thousand times--is
the work of the joy which hopes, and the sadness which fears. She was not aware of Hector's
approach. When she saw him, she started, as if waking from a dream.

"You are all alone," said Hector, drawing near.

She hurriedly told him that her sister would soon join her. The two lovers kept silence for
some time, looking timidly at each other, not venturing to speak, as if they feared the sound
of their own voices in the solitude.

"There seems a sadness," said Hector at length, but his voice trembled as he spoke--"there
seems a sadness on your brow?"

"'Tis true," replied Daphnè. "Mamma has heard from Monsieur Deshoulieres. He is going to pass
through Avignon soon, and we are going away to see him on his passage."

"Going away!" cried Hector, turning pale.

"Yes! and I felt myself so happy," said Daphnè, mournfully, "in these meadows with my sheep,
that I loved so well."

When Daphnè spoke of her sheep, she looked at Hector.

"But why should you go? Madame Deshoulieres could return for you here" --

"And take me away when I had been longer here--my grief would only be greater. No--I must go
now or stay always."

On hearing these words Hector fell on one knee, seized her hand and kissed it, and, looking
up with eyes overflowing with love, said--

"Yes--always! always!--you know that I love you, Daphnè--I wish to tell you how I will adore
you all my life long."

Daphnè yielded to her heart--and let him kiss her hand without resistance.

"But alas!" she said, "I can't be always guarding a flock. What will the poor shepherdess do?"

"Am I not your shepherd? your Daphnis?" cried Hector, as if inspired--"trust to me, Daphnè--to
my heart--to my soul! This hand shall never be separated from yours: we shall live the same
life--in the sane sunshine--in the same shadow--in the same hovel--in the same palace; but
with you, dearest Daphnè, the humblest hut would be a palace. Listen, my dearest Daphnè: at
a short distance from here there is a cottage--the Cottage of the Vines--that belongs to the
sister of my nurse, where we can live in love and happiness--no eye to watch and no tongue
to wound us."

"Never! never!" said Daphnè.

She snatched her hands from those of her lover, retreated a few paces, and began to cry. Hector
went up to her; he spoke of his affection--he besought her with tears in his eyes--he was so
eloquent and so sincere, that poor Daphnè was unable to resist, for any length of time, those
bewildering shocks of first love to which the wisest of us yield: she said, all pale and trembling--

"Well--yes--I trust myself to you--and heaven. I am not to blame--is it my fault that I love
you so?"

A tender embrace followed these words. Evening was now come; the sun, sinking behind the clouds
on the horizon, cast but a feeble light; the little herdsman was driving home his oxen and
his flock of turkeys, whose gabbling disturbed the solemnity of the closing day. The flock
belonging to the castle turned naturally towards the watering-place.

"Look at my poor sheep," said Daphnè, throwing back the curls which by some means had fallen
over her forehead--"look at my poor sheep: they are pointing out the road I ought to go."

"On the contrary," replied Hector, "the ungrateful wretches are going off very contentedly
without you."

"But I am terrified," rejoined Daphnè: "how can I leave my mother in this way? She will die
of grief!"

"She will write a poem on it; and that will be all."

"I will write to her that I was unable to resist my inclination for a monastic life, and that
I have gone, without giving her notice, to the nunnery of St. Marie that we were speaking of
last night."

So said the pure and candid Bribri, hitting in a moment on the ingenious device; so true it
is, that at the bottom of all hearts--even the most amiable--there is some small spark of mischief
ready to explode when we least expect it.

"Yes--dearest," cried Hector, delighted at the thought, "you will write to her you have gone
into the convent; she will go on to Avignon; we shall remain together beneath these cloudless
skies, in this lovely country, happy as the birds, and free as the winds of the hill!"

Daphnè thought she heard some brilliant quotation from her mother, and perhaps was, on that
account, the more easily led by Hector. After walking half an hour, with many a glance by the
way, and many a smile, they arrived in front of the Cottage of the Vines--the good old woman
was hoeing peas in her garden--she had left her house to the protection of an old grey cat,
that was sleeping in the doorway. Daphnè was enraptured with the cottage. It was beautifully
retired, and was approached by a little grass walk bordered by elder-trees; and all was closed
in by a pretty orchard, in which luxuriant vines clambered up the fine old pear-trees, and
formed in festoons between the branching elms. The Lignon formed a graceful curve and nearly
encircled the paddock.

"At all events," said Daphnè, "if I am wretched here, my tears will fall into the stream I love."

"But you will have no time to weep," replied Hector, pressing her hand, "all our days will
be happy here! Look at that window half hidden in vine-leaves; 'tis there you will inhale the
fragrance of the garden every morning when you awake; look at that pretty bower with the honeysuckle
screen, 'tis there we will sit every evening, and talk over the joys of the day. Our life will
be bright and beautiful as a sunbeam among roses!"

They had gone inside the cottage. It had certainly no great resemblance to a palace; but under
these worn rafters--within these simple walls--by the side of that rustic chimney--poverty
itself would be delightful, in its tidiness and simplicity, if shared with one you loved. Daphnè
was a little disconcerted at first by the rough uneven floor, and by the smell of the evening
meal--the toasted cheese, and the little oven where the loaf was baking; but, thanks to love--the
enchanter, who has the power of transforming to what shape he likes, and can shed his magic
splendours over any thing--Daphnè found the cottage charming, and she was pleased with the
floor, and the toasted cheese, and the oven! The good old woman, on coming in from the garden,
was astonished at the sight of Hector and Daphnè.

"What a pretty sister you have, Monsieur Hector!" she said.

"Listen to me, Babet--since your daughter married, nobody has used the little room up stairs.
This young lady will occupy it for a few days; but you must keep it a secret from all the world--you
understand."

"Don't be afraid, Master Hector--I am delighted to have so pretty a tenant for my daughter's
room. The bed is rather small, but it is white and clean, and the sheets are fresh bleached.
They smell of the daisies yet. You will sup with me, my fair young lady?" continued Babet,
turning to Daphnè; "my dishes are only pewter, but there is such a flavour in my simple fare--my
vegetables and fruits--I can't account for it, except it be the blessing of heaven."

Babet spread a tablecloth like snow, and laid some dishes of fruit upon the table. Hector took
a tender farewell of Daphnè, and kissed her hand at least a dozen times. At last he tore himself
away, with a promise that he would be with her at daybreak next morning.

CHAPTER V.

Daphnè hardly slept all night in her chamber. She was disturbed by many thoughts, and became
alarmed at the step she had taken. At earliest dawn she threw open her window. The first sun-rays,
reflected on a thousand dewdrops on the trees; the chirping of the birds, which already began
their matin song; the joyous voice of the cock, which crowed in a most satisfactory and majestic
manner in the paddock of her hostess; all these sights and sounds, to which she was so little
accustomed, restored her serenity of mind once more. She dwelt more on the attractions of her
love--so adventurous, so romantic. Love's ways, like those of wickedness, are strewed at first
with roses, and Daphnè was only at the entrance of the path.

While she was repelling from her heart the miserable fancies that had crowded on her at night,
she all of a sudden perceived Hector by the whitethorn hedge.

"Welcome! welcome!" she cried, "you come to me with the sun."

"How lovely you are this morning!" said Hector to her, with a look of admiration which there
needed no physiognomist to discover was profoundly real. She looked at herself when he spoke,
and perceived she was but half dressed. She threw herself on the foot of her bed.

"What am I to do?" she thought, "I can't always wear a silk petticoat and a corset of white satin?"

She dressed herself notwithstanding, as last night, trusting to fate for the morrow. Hector
had brought her writing materials, and she composed a tender adieu to her mamma.

"Admirably done!" cried Hector; "I have a peasant here who will carry it to Madame Deshoulieres--as
for me, I shall go as usual to the Park d'Urtis at noon. When they see me they will have no
suspicion. Your mamma goes away this evening, so that after to-day we shall have nothing to fear."

The lovers breakfasted in the spirits which only youth and love can furnish. Daphnè had herself
gone to the fountain with the broken pitcher of the cottage. "You perceive, Hector," she said,
on seating herself at the table, "that I have all the qualifications of a peasant girl."

"And all the gracefulness of a duchess," added the youth.

At one o'clock Hector had found his way to the meadow. Nobody was there. He opened the gate
of the park, and before he had gone far was met by Madame Deshoulieres.

"My daughter!" she cried in an agitated voice; "You have not seen my daughter?"

"I was in hopes of seeing her here," replied Hector, with a start of well-acted surprise.

"She is gone off," resumed the mother; "gone off, like a silly creature, to some convent, disguised
as a shepherdess--the foolish, senseless girl!--and I am obliged to depart this very day, so
that it is impossible to follow her."

Hector continued to enact astonishment--he even offered his services to reclaim the fugitive--and,
in short, exhibited such sorrow and disappointment, that the habitual quickness of Madame Deshoulieres
was deceived. The Duchess, Amaranthe, and the mamma all thanked him for his sympathy; and he
at last took his leave, with no doubt in his mind, that he was a consummate actor, and qualified
for any plot whatever.

He went back to Daphnè, who had sunk into despondency once more, and consoled her by painting
a brilliant picture of their future happiness. But on the following day he came later than
before--he seemed dull and listless--and embraced his shepherdess with evident constraint.
Things like these never escape the observations of shepherdesses, gentle or simple.

"Do you know, Hector, that you are not by any means too gallant?--A shepherd of proper sentiments
would waken his sweetheart every morning with the sound of his pipe. He would gather flowers
for her before the dew was gone, and fill her basket with fruits. He would carve her initials
on the bark of the tree beneath the window, as her name is written on his heart. But you! you
come at nearly noon--and leave me to attend to myself. 'Twas I, you inattentive Daphnis, who
gathered all these fruits and flowers. Don't you see how the room is improved? Hyacinths in
the window, roses on the mantelpiece, and violets every where--ah! what a time you were in coming!"

They went out into the garden, where the good old Babet was at breakfast, with her cat and
the bees.

"Come hither," continued Daphnè, "look at this little corner so beautifully worked--'tis my
own garden--I have raked and weeded it all. There is not much planted in it yet, but what a
charming place it is for vines!--and the hedge, how sweet and flourishing! But what is the
matter with you, Hector? You seem absent--sad."

"Oh! nothing, Daphnè, nothing indeed--I only love you more and more every hour; that's all."

"Well, that isn't a thing to be sad about"--said Daphnè, with a smile that would have dispelled
any grief less deeply settled than that of her young companion. He parted from Daphnè soon;
without letting her into the cause of his disquiet. But as there is no reason why the secret
should be kept any longer, let us tell what was going on at the Chateau de Langevy.

His cousin Clotilde had arrived the evening before, with an old aunt, to remain for the whole
spring! Monsieur de Langevy, who was not addicted to circumlocution in his mode of talk, told
his son point-blank, that his cousin was a pretty girl, and what was more, a considerable heiress--so
that it was his duty--his, Hector de Langevy--the owner of a great name and a very small fortune,
to marry the said cousin--or if not, he must stand the consequences. Hector, at the first intimation,
had revolted indignantly against the inhuman proposal, and made many inaudible vows of undying
constancy to his innocent and trusting Daphne; but by degrees, there is no denying that--without
thinking of the fortune--he found various attractions in his cousin. She was beautiful, graceful,
winning. She took his arm quite unceremoniously. She had the most captivating small-talk in
the world. In short, if it had not been for Daphnè, he would have been in love with her at
once. As he was obliged, of course, to escort his cousin in her walks--or break with her altogether--he
did not go for two whole days to the Cottage of the Vines. On the third day Clotilde begged
him to take her to the banks of the Lignon, and as the request was made in presence of his
father, he dared not refuse. He contented himself--by way of a relief to his conscience--with
breathing a sigh to Daphnè. The straightest road from the Château de Langevy to the Lignon,
led past the Cottage of the Vines--but Hector had no wish to go the straightest road. He took
a detour of nearly two miles, and led her almost to the Park D'Urtis. While Clotilde amused
herself by gathering the blossoms, and turning aside the pendent boughs of the willows that
hung over the celebrated stream. Hector looked over the scene of his first meeting with the
shepherdesses, and sighed--perhaps without knowing exactly wherefore. He was suddenly startled
by a scream--Clotilde, in stretching too far forward, had missed her footing, and fallen upon
the bank; she was within an inch of rolling into the river. Hector rushed to her, raised her
gently up, and begging her to lean her head upon his shoulder, assisted her up the bank. "She's
like a naiad surprised by a shepherd"--he thought--and it is not improbable that at that moment
he pressed his lips pretty close to the pale cheek that rested almost in his breast. When he
lifted up his head, he perceived, half hidden among the willows, on the other side of the river--Daphnè!
She had wandered to see once more the cradle of her love, to tread the meadow where, two days
only before--could it be only two days?--she had been so happy. What did she see? What did
she hear? As her only reply to the kiss to which she had so unfortunately been a witness, she
broke her crook in an excess of indignation. But it was too much to bear. She fell upon the
bank, and uttered a plaintive cry. At that cry--at sight of his poor Daphnè fainting upon the
grass, he rushed like a madman across the stream, buoyant with love and despair. He ran to
his insensate shepherdess, regardless of the exclamations of the fair Clotilde, and raised
her in his trembling arms.

"Daphnè, Daphnè," he cried, "open your eyes. I love nobody but you--nobody but you."

He embraced her tenderly; he wept--and spoke to her as if she heard: Daphnè opened her eyes
for a moment with a look of misery--and shut them again--and shuddered.

"No, no!" she said--"'tis over! You are no longer Daphnis, and I Daphnè no more--leave me,
leave me alone--to die!"

"My life! my love! my darling Daphnè! I love you--I swear it to you from my heart. I do not
desert you: you are the only one I care for!"

In the meantime Clotilde had approached the touching scene.

"'Pon my word, sir! very well"--she said--"am I to return to the Chateau by myself?"

"Go, sir, go!" said Daphnè, pushing him away, "You are waited for, you are called."

"But, Daphnè--but, fair cousin"--

"I won't listen to you--my daydream is past--speak of it no more," said Daphnè.

"Do you know, cousin," said Clotilde, with a malicious sneer, "that this rural surprise is
quite enchanting! I am greatly obliged to you for getting it up for my amusement. You did not
prepare me for so exquisite a scene; I conclude it is from the last chapter of the Astrea."

"Ah! cousin," said Hector, "I will overtake you in a moment--I will tell you all, and then
I don't think you'll laugh at us."

"Excuse me, sir," cried Daphnè, in a tone of disdainful anger-- "let that history be for ever
a secret. I do not wish people to laugh at the weakness of my heart. Farewell, sir, let every
thing be forgotten--buried!"

Large tears rolled down the poor girl's cheek.

"No, Daphnè, no!--I never will leave you. I declare it before heaven and earth, I will conduct
my cousin to the Chateau, and in an hour I will be with you to dry your tears, and to ask pardon
of you on my knees. Moreover, I am not to blame, I call my cousin to witness. Is it not true,
Clotilde, that I don't love you?"

"'Pon my word, cousin, you have certainly told me you loved me; but as men generally say the
contrary of what is the fact, I am willing to believe you don't. But I beg you'll not incommode
yourself on my account; I can find my way to the Chateau perfectly well alone."

She walked away, hiding her chagrin under the most easy and careless air in the world.

"I must run after her," said Hector, "or she will tell every thing to my father. Adieu Daphnè;
in two hours I shall be at the Cottage of the Vines, and more in love than ever."

"Adieu, then," murmured Daphnè in a dying voice; "adieu," she repeated on seeing him retire;
"adieu!--as for me, in two hours, I shall not be at the Cottage of Vines."

CHAPTER VI

She returned to the cottage of old Babet. On seeing the little chamber she had taken so much
pains to ornament with flowers and blossoms, she sank her head upon her bosom. "Poor roses!"
she murmured--"little I thought when I gathered you, that my heart would be the first to wither!"

The poor old woman came in to her. "What! crying?" she said-- "do people weep at eighteen?"

Daphnè threw herself into Babet's arms, and sobbed.

"He has deceived me--left me for his cousin. I must go. You will tell him that he has behaved
cruelly, that I am----but no!--tell him that I forgive him."

Daphnè loved Hector with all her heart, and with all her soul. There never was an affection
so blind, or a girl so innocent. Before leaving Paris, she had had various visions of what
might happen in the country--how she might meet some graceful cavalier beside the wall of some
romantic castle, who would fling himself on his knees before her, like a hero of romance. And
this dream, so cherished in Paris, was nearly realized on the banks of the Lignon. Hector was
exactly the sort of youth she had fancied, and the interest became greater from their enacting
the parts of shepherdess and shepherd. She had been strengthened in this, her first love, by
the former illusions of her imagination; and without one thought of evil, she had lost her
common sense, and had followed her lover instead of attending to her mamma. Oh, young damsels,
who are fond of pastorals, and can dream of young cavaliers and ancient castles!--who hear,
on one side, the soft whisperings of a lover, and on the other, the sensible remarks of your
mother!--need I tell you which of the two to choose? If you are still in doubt, read to the
end of this story, and you will hesitate no longer.

Hector rejoined his cousin, but during their walk home, neither of them ventured to allude
to the incident in the meadow. Hector augured well from the silence of Clotilde--he hoped she
would not speak of his secret at the chateau. Vain hope! the moment she found an opportunity,
it all came out! That evening, M. de Langevy saw her more pensive than usual, and asked her
the cause.

"Oh, nothing," she said, and sighed.

The uncle persisted in trying to find it out.

"What is the matter, my dear Clotilde?" he said. "Has your pilgrimage to the banks of the Lignon
disappointed you?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Has my son---but where is Hector?"

"He has gone on the pilgrimage again."

"What the devil is he doing there?" "He has his reasons, of course," said Clotilde.

"Indeed!--Do you know what they are?" enquired the father.

"Not the least in the world--only--"

"Only what? I hate these only's--out with it all!"

"My dear uncle, I've told you I know nothing about it--only I have seen his shepherdess."

"His shepherdess? You're laughing, Clotilde. Do you believe in shepherdesses at this time of day?"

"Yes, uncle--for I tell you I saw his shepherdess fall down in a faint on the side of the Lignon."

"The deuce you did? A shepherdess!--Hector in love with a shepherdess!"

"Yes, uncle; but a very pretty one, I assure you, in silk petticoat and corset of white satin."

The father was petrified. "What is the meaning of all this? It must be a very curious story.
Bring me my fowling-piece and game-bag. Do you think, my dear Clotilde, that infernal boy has
returned to his shepherdess?"

"Yes, uncle."

"Well--has the shepherdess any sheep?"

"No, uncle."

"The devil! that looks more serious. You went past the withy bed?"

"Yes, uncle; but I fancy the gentle shepherdess is nearer the village."

"Very good," grumbled the old Baron, with a tone of voice that made it difficult to believe
he saw much good in it. "Silk petticoats and satin corsets! I wonder where the rascal finds
money for such fineries for his shepherdess."

He went straight on to the Cottage of the Vines, in hopes that Babet would know something of
Hector's proceedings. He found the old woman in her porch, resting from the labours of the day.

"How do you do, Babet?" said the old Baron, softening his voice like any sucking dove. "Anything
new going on?"

"Nothing new, your honour," replied Babet, attempting to rise.

"Sit still," said the Baron, putting his hand kindly on the old lady's shoulder; "here's a
seat for me on this basket of rushes." At this moment M. de Langevy heard the upstairs casement
closed. "Oho!" he thought, "I've hit upon it at once--this is the cage where these turtles
bill and coo. Have you seen my son this week, Babet?" he said aloud.

"Oh, I see him often, your honour; he often comes sporting into my paddock."

"Sporting in your preserves, Babet--a pretty sort of game."

"Oh, very good game, your honour; this very day he sent me a beautiful hare. I did not know
what to do with it; but at last I put it on the spit."

"The hare wasn't all for you, perhaps. But, listen to me, Babet--I know the whole business--my
son is in love with some shepherdess or other--and I don't think she is far from here."

"I don't understand you, sir," said the old lady--a true confidante, though seventy years of age.

"You understand me so perfectly," said the Baron, "that you are evidently ashamed of your behaviour.
But do not be uneasy, there is no great harm in it--a mere childish frolic--only tell me where
the girl is?"

"Ah, your honour," cried Babet, who saw there was no use for further pretence--"she's an angel--she
is--a perfect angel!"

"Where does the angel come from, Babet?" enquired the Baron, "she has not come fresh from heaven,
has she?"

"I know nothing more about her, your honour; but I pray morning and night that you may have
no one else for a daughter."

"We shall see--the two lovers are above, are not they?"

"Why should I conceal it? Yes, your honour, you may go up stairs at once. An innocent love
like theirs never bolts the door."

When the Baron was half-way up the stair, he stopped short, on seeing the two lovers sitting
close to each other, the one weeping, and the other trying to console her. There was such an
air of infantine candour about them both, and both seemed so miserable, that the hard heart
of sixty-three was nearly touched.

"Very well!"--he said, and walked into the room. Daphnè uttered a scream of terror, and her
tears redoubled.

"There is nothing to cry about," said M. de Langevy; "but as for you, young man, you must let
me into the secret, if you please."

"I have nothing to tell you," said Hector, in a determined tone.

Daphnè, who had leant for support on his shoulder, fell senseless on her chair.

"Father," said Hector, bending over her, "you perceive that this is no place for you."

"Nor for you, either," said the old man in a rage. "What do you mean by such folly? Go home
this instant, sir, or you shall never enter my door again."

But Hector made no reply. His whole attention was bestowed on Daphnè.

"I ask you again, sir," said the father, still more angry at his son's neglect. "Think well
on what you do."

"I have thought, sir," replied Hector, raising the head of the still senseless Daphnè. "You
may shut your door for ever."

"None of your impudence, jackanapes. Will you come home with me now, or stay here?"

"If I go with you, sir," said Hector, "it will be to show my respect to you as my father, but
I must tell you that I love Mademoiselle Deshoulieres, and no one else. We are engaged, and
only death shall part us."

"Deshoulieres--Deshoulieres," said the Baron, "I've heard that name before. I knew a Colonel
Deshoulieres in the campaigns of Flanders; a gallant fellow, with a beautiful wife, a number
of wounds, many medals, but not a sou. Are you coming, sir?"

Daphnè motioned him to go, and Hector followed his father in silence. He was not without hopes
of gaining his permission to love his poor Daphnè as much as he chose. M. de Langevy bowed
to her as he went out of the room; and wishing Babet a good appetite as he passed the kitchen
door, commenced a sermon for the edification of poor Hector, which lasted all the way. The
only attention Hector paid to it was to turn round at every pause, and take a look at the little
casement window.

When Daphnè saw him disappear among the woods at the side of the road, she sighed; and while
the tears rolled down her cheek, she said, "Adieu, adieu! I shall never see him more!"

She looked sadly round the little apartment--now so desolate; she gathered one of the roses
that clustered round the window, and scattered the leaves one by one, and watched them as they
were wafted away by the breeze.

"Even so will I do with my love," said the poetical shepherdess; "I will scatter it on the
winds of death."

"Adieu," she said, embracing poor old Babet; "I am going back to the place I left so sillily.
If you see Hector again, tell him I loved him; but that he must forget me, as I forget the
world, and myself."

As she said these words, she grew pale and staggered, but she recovered by an effort, and walked
away on the path that led to the Chateau d'Urtis. When she came to the meadow, she saw at her
feet the crook she had broken in the morning. She lifted it, and took it with her as the only
memorial of Hector. The sun was sinking slowly, and Daphnè knelt down and said a prayer, pressing
the crook to her bosom--poor Daphnè!

CHAPTER VII.

She did not find her mother at the chateau: Madame d'Urtis was overjoyed to see her.

"Well, my lost sheep," she said, "you have come back again to the fold."

"Yes," said Daphnè, sadly; "I am come back never to stray again. See, here is my broken crook,
and Daphnis will never come to cut me another."

She told every thing to Madame d'Urtis. The Duchess did not know whether to laugh or scold;
so she got over the difficulty by alternately doing both.

In the Chateau de Langevy, Hector continued firm in the presence of his father, and even of
his cousin. He told them every thing exactly as it occurred; and spoke so enthusiastically
and so sincerely, that the old Baron was somewhat softened. Clotilde herself was touched, and
pled in Hector's behalf. But the old Baron was firm, and his only answer was, "In eight days
he will forget all about her. I am astonished, Clotilde, to see you reason so absurdly."

"Oh, my dear uncle!" said Clotilde, "I believe that those who reason the worst on such a subject
are the most reasonable."

"I tell you again, in a week he will have changed his divinity--you know that very well; or
I don't see the use of your having such beautiful eyes."

"Be sure of this, uncle," replied Clotilde, in a more serious voice, "Hector will never love
me, and besides," she added, relapsing into gaiety once more, "I don't like to succeed to another;
I agree with Mademoiselle de Scuderi, that, in love, those queens are the happiest who create
kingdoms for themselves in undiscovered lands."

"You read romances, Clotilde, so I shall argue with you no longer about the phantom you call love."

Hector took his father on the weak side.

"If I marry Mademioiselle Deshoulieres," he said, "I shall march forward in the glorious career
of arms; you have opened the way for me, and I cannot fail of success under the instruction
of the brave Deshoulieres, whom Louvois honours with his friendship."

M. de Langevy put an end to the conversation by saying he would consider--which seemed already
a great step gained in favour of the lovers.

On the next day's dawn, Hector was at the Cottage of the Vines.

"Alas, alas!" said the old woman, throwing open the window, "the dear young lady is gone!"

"Gone!--you let her go!--but I will find her."

Hector ran to the Chateau d'Urtis. When he entered the park, he felt he was too late, for he
saw a carriage hurrying down the opposite avenue. He rang the bell, and was shown in to the
Duchess.

"'Tis you, Monsieur de Langevy," she said, sadly; "you come to see Mademoiselle Deshoulieres.
Think of her no more, for all is at an end between you. On this earth you will meet no more,
for in an hour she will have left the world. She is gone, with her maid, to the Convent of
Val Chrétien."

"Gone!" cried Hector, nearly fainting.

"She has left a farewell for you in this letter." Hector took the letter which the Duchess
held to him, and grew deadly pale as he read these lines:--

"Farewell, then! 'Tis no longer Daphnè who writes to you, but a broken-hearted girl, who is
to devote her life to praying for the unhappy. I retire from the world with resignation. I
make no complaint: my two days' dream of happiness is gone. It was a delicious eclogue--pure,
sincere, and tender; but it is past--Adieu!"

Hector kissed the letter, and turned to the Duchess. "Have you a horse, madam?" he said.

"What would you do with it?"

"I would overtake Mademoiselle Deshoulieres."

"You might overtake her, but you couldn't turn her."

"For mercy's sake, madam, a horse! Take pity on my misery."

The Duchess ordered a horse to be saddled, for she had opposed Daphnè's design. "Go," she said,
"and Heaven guide you both!"

He started at full gallop: he overtook the carriage in half an hour.

"Daphnè, you must go no further!" he said, holding out his hand to the melancholy girl.

"'Tis you!" cried Daphnè, with a look of surprise and joy--soon succeeded by deeper grief than
ever.

"Yes, 'tis I! I," continued the youth, "who love you as my Daphnè, my wife, for my father has
listened at last to reason, and agrees to all."

"But I also have listened to reason, and you know where I am going. Leave me: you are rich--I
am poor: you love me to-day--who can say if you will love me to-morrow? We began a delightful
dream, let us not spoil it by a bad ending. Let our dream continue unbroken in its freshness
and romance. Our crooks are both broken; they have killed two of our sheep; they have cut down
the willows in the meadow. You perceive that our bright day is over. The lady I saw yesterday
should be your wife. Marry her, then; and if ever, in your hours of happiness, you wander on
the banks of the Lignon, my shade will appear to you. But then it shall be with a smile!"

"Daphnè! Daphnè! I love you! I will never leave you! I will live or die with you!"

       *       *       *       *       *

It was fifty years after that day, that one evening, during a brilliant supper in the Rue St.
Dominique, Gentil Bernard, who was the life of the company, announced the death of an original,
who had ordered a broken stick to be buried along with him.

"He is Monsieur de Langevy," said Fontenelle. "He was forced against his inclination to marry
the dashing Clotilde de Langevy, who eloped so shamefully with one of the Mousquetaires. M.
de Langevy had been desperately attached to Bribri Deshoulieres, and this broken stick was
a crook they had cut during their courtship on the banks of the Lignon. The Last Shepherd is
dead, gentlemen--we must go to his funeral."

"And what became of Bribri Deshoulieres?" asked a lady of the party.

"I have been told she died very young in a convent in the south," replied Fontenelle; "and
the odd thing is, that, when they were burying her, they found a crook attached to her horse-hair
tunic."

       *       *       *       *       *

THE FOUNDING OF THE BELL.

WRITTEN FOR MUSIC.

BY CHARLES MACKAY.

       *       *       *       *       *

AMMALÁT BEK.

   A TRUE TALE OF THE CAUCASUS.
   FROM THE RUSSIAN OF MARLÍNSKI.

CHAPTER III.

It was daybreak when Ammalát came to himself. Slowly, one by one, his thoughts reassembled
in his mind, and flitted to and fro as in a mist, in consequence of his extreme weakness. He
felt no pain at all in his body, and his sensations were even agreeable; life seemed to have
lost its bitterness, and death its terror: in this condition he would have listened with equal
indifference to the announcement of his recovery, or of his inevitable death. He had no wish
to utter a word, or to stir a finger. This half sleep, however, did not continue long. At midday,
after the visit of the physician, when the attendants had gone to perform the rites of noon-tide
prayer, when their sleepy voices were still, and nought but the cry of the mullah resounded
from afar, Ammalát listened to a soft and cautious step upon the carpets of the chamber. He
raised his heavy eyelids, and between their lashes appeared, approaching his bed, a fair, black-eyed
girl, dressed in an orange-coloured sarótchka, an arkhaloúkh of cloth of gold with two rows
of enamelled buttons, and her long hair falling upon her shoulders. Gently she fanned his face,
and so pityingly looked at his wound that all his nerves thrilled. Then she softly poured some
medicine into a cup, and--he could see no more--his eyelids sank like lead--he only caught
with his ear the rustling of her silken dress, like the sound of a parting angel's wings, and
all was still again. Whenever his weak senses strove to discover the meaning of this fair apparition,
it was so mingled with the uncertain dreams of fever, that his first thought--his first word--when
he awoke, was, "'Tis a dream!" But it was no dream. This beautiful girl was the daughter of
the Sultan Akhmet Khan, and sixteen years old. Among all the mountaineers, in general, the
unmarried women enjoy a great freedom of intercourse with the other sex, without regard to
the law of Mahomet. The favourite daughter of the Khan was even more independent than usual.
By her side alone he forgot his cares and disappointments; by her side alone his eye met a
smile, and his heart a gleam of gayety. When the elders of Avár discussed in a circle the affairs
of their mountain politics, or gave their judgment on right or wrong; when, surrounded by his
household, he related stories of past forays, or planned fresh expeditions, she would fly to
him like a swallow, bringing hope and spring into his soul. Fortunate was the culprit during
whose trial the Khána came to her father! The lifted dagger was arrested in the air; and not
seldom would the Khan, when looking upon her, defer projects of danger and blood, lest he should
be parted from his darling daughter. Every thing was permitted, every thing was accessible,
to her. To refuse her any thing never entered into the mind of the Khan; and suspicion of any
thing unworthy her sex and rank, was as far from his thoughts as from his daughter's heart.
But who among those who surrounded the Khan, could have inspired her with tender feelings?
To bend her thoughts--to lower her sentiments to any man inferior to her in birth, would have
been an unheard-of disgrace in the daughter of the humblest retainer; how much more, then,
in the child of a khan, imbued from her very cradle with the pride of ancestry!--this pride,
like a sheet of ice, separating her heart from the society of those she saw. As yet no guest
of her father had ever been of equal birth to hers; at least, her heart had never asked the
question. It is probable, that her age--of careless, passionless youth--was the cause of this;
perhaps the hour of love had already struck, and the heart of the inexperienced girl was fluttering
in her bosom. She was hurrying to clasp her father in her embrace, when she had beheld a handsome
youth falling like a corpse at her feet. Her first feeling was terror; but when her father
related how and wherefore Ammalát was his guest, when the village doctor declared that his
wound was not dangerous, a tender sympathy for the stranger filled her whole being. All night
there flitted before her the blood-stained guest, and she met the morning-beam, for the first
time, less rosy than itself. For the first time she had recourse to artifice: in order to look
on the stranger, she entered his room as though to salute her father, and afterwards she slipped
in there at mid-day. An unaccountable, resistless curiosity impelled her to gaze on Ammalát.
Never, in her childhood, had she so eagerly longed for a plaything; never, at her present age,
had she so vehemently wished for a new dress or a glittering ornament, as she desired to meet
the eye of the guest; and when at length, in the evening, she encountered his languid, yet
expressive gaze, she could not remove her look from the black eyes of Ammalát, which were intently
fixed on her. They seemed to say--"Hide not thyself; star of my soul!" as they drank health
and consolation from her glances. She knew not what was passing within her; she could not distinguish
whether she was on the earth, or floating in the air; changing colours flitted on her face.
At length she ventured, in a trembling voice, to ask him about his health. One must be a Tartar--who
accounts it a sin and an offence to speak a word to a strange woman, who never sees any thing
female but the veil and the eye-brows--to conceive how deeply agitated was the ardent Bek,
by the looks and words of the beautiful girl addressed so tenderly to him. A soft flame ran
through his heart, notwithstanding his weakness.

"Oh, I am very well, now," he answered, endeavouring to rise; "so well, that I am ready to
die, Seltanetta."

"Allah sakhla-sün!" (God protect you!) she replied. "Live, live long! Would you not regret life?"

"At a sweet moment sweet is death, Seltanetta! But if I live a hundred years, a more delightful
moment than this can never be found!"

Seltanetta did not understand the words of the stranger; but she understood his look--she understood
the expression of his voice. She blushed yet more deeply; and, making a sign with her hand
that he should repose, disappeared from the chamber.

Among the mountaineers there are many very skilful surgeons, chiefly in cases of wounds and
fractures; but Ammalát, more than by herb or plaster, was cured by the presence of the charming
mountain-maid. With the agreeable hope of seeing her in his dreams, he fell asleep, and awoke
with joy, knowing that he should meet her in reality. His strength rapidly returned, and with
his strength grew his attachment to Seltanetta.

Ammalát was married; but, as it often happens in the East, only from motives of interest. He
had never seen his bride before his marriage, and afterwards found no attraction in her which
could awake his sleeping heart. In course of time, his wife became blind; and this circumstance
loosened still more a tie founded on Asiatic customs rather than affection. Family disagreements
with his father-in-law and uncle, the Shamkhál, still further separated the young couple, and
they were seldom together. Was it strange, under the circumstances, that a young man, ardent
by nature, self-willed by nature, should be inspired with a new love? To be with her was his
highest happiness--to await her arrival his most delightful occupation. He ever felt a tremor
when he heard her voice: each accent, like a ray of the sun, penetrated his soul. This feeling
resembled pain, but a pain so delicious, that he would have prolonged it for ages. Little by
little the acquaintance between the young people grew into friendship--they were almost continually
together. The Khan frequently departed to the interior of Avár for business of government or
military arrangements, leaving his guest to the care of his wife, a quiet, silent woman. He
was not blind to the inclination of Ammalát for his daughter, and in secret rejoiced at it;
it flattered his ambition, and forwarded his military views; a connexion with a Bek possessing
the right to the Shamkhalát would place in his hands a thousand means of injuring the Russians.
The Khánsha, occupied in her household affairs, not infrequently left Ammalát for hours together
in her apartments--as he was a relation; and Seltanetta, with two or three of her personal
attendants, seated on cushions, and engaged in needlework, would not remark how the hours flew
by, conversing with the guest, and listening to his talk. Sometimes Ammalát would sit long,
long, reclining at the feet of his Seltanetta, without uttering a word, and gazing at her dark,
absorbing eyes; or enjoying the mountain prospect from her window, which opened towards the
north, on the rugged banks and windings of the roaring Ouzén, over which hung the castle of
the Khan. By the side of this being, innocent as a child, Ammalát forgot the desires which
she as yet knew not; and, dissolving in a joy, strange, incomprehensible to himself, he thought
not of the past nor of the future; he thought of nothing--he could only feel; and indolently,
without taking the cup from his lips, he drained his draught of bliss, drop by drop.

Thus passed a year.

The Avarétzes are a free people, neither acknowledging nor suffering any power above them.
Every Avarétz calls himself an Ouzdén; and if he possesses a yezéer, (prisoner, slave,) he
considers himself a great man. Poor, and consequently brave to extravagance, excellent marksmen
with the rifle, they fight well on foot; they ride on horseback only in their plundering expeditions,
and even then but a few of them. Their horses are small, but singularly strong; their language
is divided into a multitude of dialects, but is essentially Lezghin for the Avártzi themselves
are of the Lezghin stock. They retain traces of the Christian faith, for it is not 120 years
that they have worshipped Mahomet, and even now they are but cool Moslems; they drink brandy,
they drink boozá, [16] and occasionally wine made of grapes, but most ordinarily a sort of
boiled wine, called among them djápa. The truth of an Avarétz's word has passed into a proverb
among the mountains. At home, they are peaceful, hospitable, and benevolent; they do not conceal
their wives and daughters; for their guest they are ready to die, and to revenge to the end
of the generation. Revenge, among them, is sacred; plundering, glory; and they are often forced
by necessity to brigandize.

[Footnote 16: A species of drink used by the Tartars, produced by fermenting oats.]

Passing over the summit of Atála and Tkhezeróuk, across the crests of Tourpi-Táou, in Kakhétia,
beyond the river Alazán, they find employment at a very low price; occasionally remaining two
or three days together without work, and then, at an agreement among themselves, they rush
like famished wolves, by night, into the neighbouring villages, and, if they succeed, drive
away the cattle, carry off the women, make prisoners, and will often perish in an unequal combat.
Their invasions into the Russian limits ceased from the time when Azlan Khan retained possession
of the defiles which lead into his territories from Avár. But the village of Khounzákh, or
Avár, at the eastern extremity of the Avár country, has ever remained the heritage of the khans,
and their command there is law. Besides, though he has the right to order his noúkers to cut
to pieces with their kinjáls [17] any inhabitant of Khounzákh, nay, any passer-by, the Khan
cannot lay any tax or impost upon the people, and must content himself with the revenues arising
from his flocks, and the fields cultivated by his karaváshes (slaves,) or yezéers (prisoners.)

[Footnote 17: Dagger or poniard. These weapons are of various forms, and generally much more
formidable than would be suggested to an European by the name dagger. The kinjál is used with
wonderful force and dexterity by the mountaineers, whose national weapon it may be said to
be; it is sometimes employed even as a missile. It is worn suspended in a slanting direction
in the girdle, not on the side, but in front of the body.]

Without, however, taking any direct imposts, the khans do not abstain from exacting dues, sanctified
rather by force than custom. For the Khan to take from their home a young man or a girl--to
command a waggon with oxen or buffaloes to transport his goods--to force labourers to work
in his fields, or to go as messengers, &c., is an affair of every day. The inhabitants of Khounzákh
are not more wealthy than the rest of their countrymen; their houses are clean, and, for the
most part, have two stories, the men are well made, the women handsome, chiefly because the
greater number of them are Georgian prisoners. In Avár, they study the Arabic language, and
the style of their educated men is in consequence very flowery. The Harám of the Khan is always
crowded with guests and petitioners, who, after the Asiatic manner, dare not present themselves
without a present--be it but a dozen of eggs. The Khan's noúkers, on the number and bravery
of whom he depends for his power, fill from morning to night his courts and chambers, always
with loaded pistols in their belt, and daggers at their waist. The favourite Ouzdéns and guests,
Tchetchenétzes or Tartars, generally present themselves every morning to salute the Khan, whence
they depart in a crowd to the Khánsha, sometimes passing the whole day in banqueting in separate
chambers, regaling even during the Khan's absence. One day there came into the company an Ouzdén
of Avár, who related the news that an immense tiger had been seen not far off, and that two
of their best shots had fallen victims to its fierceness. "This has so frightened our hunters,"
he said, "that nobody likes to attempt the adventure a third time."

"I will try my luck," cried Ammalát, burning with impatience to show his prowess before the
mountaineers. "Only put me on the trail of the beast!" A broad-shouldered Avarétz measured
with his eye our bold Bek from head to foot, and said with a smile: "A tiger is not like a
boar of Daghestán, Ammalát! His trail sometimes leads to death!"

"Do you think," answered he haughtily, "that on that slippery path my head would turn, or my
hand tremble? I invite you not to help me: I invite you but to witness my combat with the tiger.
I hope you will then allow, that if the heart of an Avarétz is firm as the granite of his mountains,
the heart of a Daghestánetz is tenpered like his famous boulát. [18] Do you consent?"

[Footnote 18: A species of highly tempered steel, manufactured, and much prized, by the Tartars.]

The Avarétz was caught. To have refused would have been shameful: so, clearing up his face,
he stretched out his hand to Ammalát. "I will willingly go with you," he replied. "Let us not
delay--let us swear in the mosque, and go to the fight together! Allah will judge whether we
are to bring back his skin for a housing, or whether he is to devour us."

It is not in accordance with Asiatic manners, much less with Asiatic customs, to bid farewell
to the women when departing for a long or even an unlimited period. This privilege belongs
only to relations, and it is but rarely that it is granted to a guest. Ammalát, therefore,
glanced with a sigh at the window of Seltanetta, and went with lingering steps to the mosque.
There, already awaited him the elders of the village, and a crowd of curious idlers. By an
ancient custom of Avár, the hunters were obliged to swear upon the Koran, that they would not
desert one another, either in the combat with the beast or in the chase; that they would not
quit each other when wounded; if fate willed that the animal should attack them, that they
would defend each other to the last, and die side by side, careless of life; and that in any
case they would not return without the animal's skin; that he who betrayed this oath, should
be hurled from the rocks, as a coward and traitor. The moollah armed them, the companions embraced,
and they set out on their journey amid the acclamations of the whole crowd. "Both, or neither!"
they cried after them. "We will slay him, or die!" answered the hunters.

A day had passed. A second had sunk below the snowy summits. The old men had wearied their
eyes in gazing from their roofs along the road. The boys had gone far on the hills that crested
the village, to meet the hunters--but no tidings of them. Throughout all Khounzákh, at every
fireside, either from interest or idleness, they were talking of this; but above all, Seltanetta
was sad. At every voice in the courtyard, at every sound on the staircase, all her blood flew
to her face, and her heart beat with anxiety. She would start up, and run to the window or
the door; and then, disappointed for the twentieth time, with downcast eyes would return slowly
to her needlework, which, for the first time, appeared tiresome and endless. At last, succeeding
doubt, fear laid its icy hand upon the maiden's heart. She demanded of her father, her brothers,
the guests, whether the wounds given by a tiger were dangerous?--was this animal far from the
villages? And ever and anon, having counted the moments, she would wring her hands, and cry,
"They have perished!" and silently bowed her head on her agitated breast, while large tears
flowed down her fair face.

On the third day, it was clear that the fears of all were not idle. The Ouzdén, Ammalát's companion
to the chase, crawled with difficulty, alone, into Khounzákh. His coat was torn by the claws
of some wild beast; he himself was as pale as death from exhaustion, hunger, and fatigue. Young
and old surrounded him with eager curiosity; and having refreshed himself with a cup of milk
and a piece of tchourek, [19] he related as follows:--"On the same day that we left this place,
we found the track of the tiger. We discovered him asleep among the thick hazels--may Allah
keep me from them!"

[Footnote 19: "Tchourek," a kind of bread.]

Drawing lots, it fell to my chance to fire: I crept gently up, and aiming well, I fired--but
for my sorrow, the beast was sleeping with his face covered by his paw; and the ball, piercing
the paw, hit him in the neck. Aroused by the report and by the pain, the tiger gave a roar,
and with a couple of bounds, dashed at me before I had time to draw my dagger: with one leap,
he hurled me on the ground, trode on me with his hind feet, and I only know that at this moment
there resounded a cry, and the shot of Ammalát, and afterwards a deafening and tremendous roar.
Crushed by the weight, I lost sense and memory, and how long I lay in this fainting fit, I
know not.

"When I opened my eyes all was still around me, a small rain was falling from a thick mist
... was it evening or morning? My gun, covered with rust, lay beside me, Ammalát's not far
off, broken in two; here and there the stones were stained with blood ... but whose? The tiger's
or Ammalát's? How can I tell? Broken twigs lay around ... the brute must have broken them in
his mad boundings. I called on my comrade as loudly as I could. No answer. I sat down, and
shouted again ... but in vain. Neither animal nor bird passed by. Many times did I endeavour
to find traces of Ammalát, either to discover him alive, or to die upon his corpse--that I
might avenge on the beast the death of the brave man; but I had no strength. I wept bitterly:
why have I perished both in life and honour! I determined to await the hour of death in the
wilderness; but hunger conquered me. Alas! thought I, let me carry to Khounzákh the news that
Ammalát has perished; let me at least die among my own people! Behold me, then; I have crept
hither like a serpent. Brethren, my head is before you: judge me as Allah inclines your hearts.
Sentence me to life; I will live, remembering your justice: condemn me to death; your will
be done! I will die innocent, Allah is my witness: I did what I could!"

A murmur arose among the people, as they listened to the new comer. Some excused, others condemned,
though all regretted him. "Every one must take care of himself," said some of the accusers:
"who can say that he did not fly? He has no wound, and, therefore, no proof ... but that he
has abandoned his comrade is most certain." "Not only abandoned, but perhaps betrayed him,"
said others--"they talked not as friends together!" The Khan's noúkers went further: they suspected
that the Ouzdén had killed Ammalát out of jealousy: "he looked too lovingly on the Khan's daughter,
but the Khan's daughter found one far his superior in Ammalát."

Sultan Akhmet Khan, learning what the people were assembling about in the street, rode up to
the crowd. "Coward!" he cried with mingled anger and contempt to the Ouzdén: "you are a disgrace
to the name of Avarétz. Now every Tartar may say, that we let wild beasts devour our guests,
and that we know not how to defend them! At least we know how to avenge him: you have sworn
upon the Koran, after the ancient usage of Avár, never to abandon your comrade in distress,
and if he fall, not to return home without the skin of the beast ... thou hast broken thine
oath ... but we will not break our law: perish! Three days shall be allowed thee to prepare
thy soul; but then--if Ammalát be not found, thou shalt be cast from the rock. You shall answer
for his head with your own!" he added, turning to his noúkers, pulling his cap over his eyes
and directing  his horse towards his home. Thirty mountaineers rushed in different directions
from Khounzákh, to search for at least the remains of the Bek of Bouináki. Among the mountaineers
it is considered a sacred duty to bury with honour their kinsmen and comrades, and they will
sometimes, like the heroes of Homer, rush into the thickest of the battle to drag from the
hands of the Russians the body of a companion, and will fall in dozens round the corpse rather
than abandon it.

The unfortunate Ouzdén was conducted to the stable of the Khan; a place frequently used as
a prison. The people, discussing what had happened, separated sadly, but without complaining,
for the sentence of the Khan was in accordance with their customs.

The melancholy news soon reached Seltanetta, and though they tried to soften it, it struck
terribly a maiden who loved so deeply. Nevertheless, contrary to their expectation, she appeared
tranquil; she neither wept nor complained, but she smiled no more, and uttered not a word.
Her mother spoke to her; she heard her not. A spark from her father's pipe burned her dress;
she saw it not. The cold wind blew upon her bosom; she felt it not. All her feelings seemed
to retire into her heart to torture her; but that heart was hidden from the view, and nothing
was reflected in her proud features. The Khan's daughter was struggling with the girl: it was
easy to see which would yield first.

But this secret struggle seemed to choke Seltanetta: she longed to fly from the sight of man,
and give the reins to her sorrow. "O heaven!" she thought; "having lost him, may I not weep
for him? All gaze on me, to mock me and watch my every tear, to make sport for their malignant
tongues. The sorrows of others amuse them, Sekina," she added, to her maid; "let us go and
walk on the bank of the Ouzén."

At the distance of three agátcha [20] from Khounzákh, towards the west, are the ruins of an
ancient Christian monastery, a lonely monument of the forgotten faith of the aborigines.

[Footnote 20: "Agátcha," seven versts, a measure for riding--for the pedestrian, the agátcha
is four versts.]

The hand of time, as if in veneration, has not touched the church itself, and even the fanaticism
of the people has spared the sanctuary of their ancestors. It stood entire amid the ruined
cells and falling wall. The dome, with its high pointed roof of stone, was already darkened
by the breath of ages: ivy covered with its tendrils the narrow windows, and trees were growing
in the crevices of the stones. Within, soft moss spread its verdant carpet, and in the sultriness
a moist freshness breathed there, nourished by a fountain, which, having pierced the wall,
fell tinkling behind the stone altar, and, dividing into silver ever-murmuring threads of pure
water, filtered among the pavement stones, and crept meandering away. A solitary ray slanting
through the window, flitted over the trembling verdure, and smiled on the gloomy wall, like
a child on its grandame's knee. Thither Seltanetta directed her steps: there she rested from
the looks which so tormented her: all around was so still, so soft, so happy; and all augmented
but the more her sadness: the light trembling on the wall, the twittering of the swallows,
the murmur of the fountain, melted into tears the load that weighed upon her breast, and her
sorrow dissolved into lamentation: Sekina went to pluck the pears which grew in abundance round
the church; and Seltanetta could freely yield to nature.

But sudden, raising her head, she uttered an exclamation of surprise! before her stood a well-made
Avarétz, stained with blood and mire. "Does not your heart, do not your eyes, O Seltanetta,
recognize your favourite?" No, but with a second glance she knew Ammalát; and forgetting all
but her joy, she threw herself on his neck, embraced it with her arms, and long, long, gazed
fixedly on the much-loved face; and the fire of confidence, the fire of ecstasy, glimmered
through the still falling tears. Could then the impassioned Ammalát contain his rapture? He
clung like a bee to the rosy lips of Seltanetta; he had heard enough for his happiness; he
was now at the summit of bliss; the lovers had not yet said a word of their love, but they
already understood each other. "And dost thou then, angel," added Ammalát, when Seltanetta,
ashamed of the kiss, withdrew from his embrace: "dost thou love me?"

"Allah protect me!" replied the innocent girl, lowering her eyelashes, but not her eyes: "Love!
that is a terrible word. Last year, going into the street, I saw them pelting a girl with stones:
terrified I rushed hone, but nowhere could I hide myself: the bloody image of the sinner was
everywhere before me, and her groan yet rings unceasingly in my ears. When I asked why they
had so inhumanly put to death that unhappy creature, they answered, that she loved a certain
youth!"

"No, dearest, it was not because she loved one, but that she loved not one alone--because she
betrayed some one, it may be, that they killed her."

"What means 'betrayed,' Ammalát? I understand it not."

"Oh, God grant that you may never learn what it is to betray; that you may never forget me
for another!"

"Ah, Ammalát, within these four days I have learned how bitter to me was separation! For a
long time I have not seen my brothers Noutsál and Soúrkha, and I meet them with pleasure; but
without them I do not grieve: without you I wish not to live!"

"For thee I am ready to die, my morning-star: to thee I give my soul--not only life, my beloved!"

The sound of footsteps interrupted the lovers' talk: it was Seltanetta's attendant. All three
went to congratulate the Khan, who was consoled, and unaffectedly delighted.

Ammalát related in a few words how the affair had occurred. "Hardly had I remarked that my
comrade had fallen when I fired at the beast, flying, with a ball which broke his jaw. The
monster with a terrific roar began to whirl round, to leap, to roll, sometimes darting towards
me, and then again, tormented by the agony, bounding aside. At this moment, striking him with
the butt of my gun on the skull, I broke it. I pursued him a long time as soon as he betook
himself to flight, following him by his bloody track: the day began to fail, and when I plunged
my dagger into the throat of the fallen tiger, dark night had fallen upon the earth. Would
I or not, I was compelled to pass the night with the rocks for a bed-chamber, and the wolves
and jackals for companions. The morning was dark and rainy; the clouds around my head poured
their waters on me like a river. At ten paces before my face nothing could be seen. Without
a view of the sun, ignorant of the country, in vain I wandered round and round: weariness and
hunger overwhelmed me. A partridge which I shot with my pistol restored my strength for a while;
but I could not find my way out of my rocky grave. In the evening the only sounds I could hear
were the murmur of water falling from a cliff, or the whistling of the eagles' wings as they
flew through the clouds; but at night the audacious jackals raised, three paces off, their
lamentable song. This morning the sun rose brightly, and I myself arose more cheerful, and
directed my steps towards the east. I shortly afterwards heard a cry and a shot: it was your
messengers. Overcome by heat, I went to drink the pure water of the fountain by the old mosque,
and there I met Seltanetta. Thanks be to you, and glory to God!"

"Glory to God, and honour to you!" exclaimed the Sultan, embracing him. "But your courage has
nearly cost us your life, and even that of your comrade. If you had delayed a day, he would
have been obliged to dance the Sézghinka in the air. You have returned just in time. Djemboulá't,
a famous cavalier of Little Kabárda, has sent to invite you to a foray against the Russians.
I would willingly buy beforehand your glory; as much as you won in your last battle. The time
is short; tomorrow's sun must see you ready."

This news was by no means unwelcome to Ammalát: he decided instantly; answering, that he would
go with pleasure. He felt sure that a distinguished reputation as a cavalier would ensure him
future success.

But Seltanetta turned pale--bowing her head like a flower, when she heard of this new and more
cruel separation. Her look, as it dwelt upon Ammalát, showed painful apprehension--the pain
of prophetic sorrow.

"Allah!" she mournfully exclaimed: "more forays, more slaughter. When will blood cease to be
shed in the mountains?"

"When the mountain torrents run milk, and the sugar-canes wave on the snowy peaks!" said the Khan.

CHAPTER IV.

Wildly beautiful is the resounding Térek in the mountains of Dariál. There, like a genie, borrowing
his strength from heaven, he wrestles with Nature. There bright and shining as steel, cutting
through the overshadowing cliff, he gleams among the rocks. There, blackening with rage, he
bellows and bounds like a wild beast, among the imprisoning cliffs: he bursts, overthrows,
and rolls afar their broken fragments. On a stormy night, when the belated traveller, enveloped
in his furry boúrka, gazing fearfully around him, travels along the bank which hangs over the
torrent of Térek, all is terror such as only a vivid imagination can conceive. With slow steps
he winds along, the rain-torrents stream around his feet, and tumble upon his head from the
rocks which frown above and threaten his destruction. Suddenly the lightning flashes before
his eyes--with horror he beholds but a black cloud above him, below a yawning gulf, beside
him crags, and before him the roaring Térek. At one moment he sees its wild and troubled waves
raging like infernal spirits chased by the archangel's brand. After them, with a shout as of
laughter, roll the huge stones. In another moment, the blinding flash is gone, and he is plunged
once more in the dark ocean of night: then bursts the thunder-crash, jarring the foundations
of the rocks, as though a thousand mountains were dashed against each other, so deafeningly
do the echoes repeat the bellow of the heavens. Then a long-protracted growl, as of massive
oaks plucked up by their roots, or the crash of bursting rocks, or the yell of the Titans as
they were hurled headlong into the abyss; it mingles with the war of the blast, and the blast
swells to a hurricane, and the rain pours down in torrents. And again the lightning blinds
him, and again the thunder, answering from afar to the splinter-crash, deafens him. The terrified
steed rears, starts backward--the rider utters a short prayer.

But after this how softly smiles the morning--morn, in whose light Térek glides, and ripples,
and murmurs! The clouds, like a torn veil whirling on the breeze, appear and vanish fitfully
among the icy peaks. The sunbeams discover jagged profiles of the summits on the opposing mountain
wall. The rocks glitter freshly from the rain. The mountain-torrents leap through the morning
mist; and the mists themselves creep winding through the cliffs, even as the smoke from a cottage
chimney, then twine themselves like a turban round some ancient tower, while Térek ripples
on among the stones, curling as a tired hound who seeks a resting-place.

In the Caucasus, it must be confessed, there are no waters in which the mountains can worthily
reflect themselves--those giants of creation. There are no gentle rivers, no vast lakes; but
Térek receives in his stream the tribute of a thousand streamlets. Beneath the further Caucasus,
where the mountains melt into the plain, he seems to flow calmly and gently, he wanders on
in huge curves, depositing the pebbles he has brought down from the hills. Further on, bending
to the north-west, the stream is still strong, but less noisy, as though wearied with its fierce
strugglings. At length, embraced by the narrow gorge of Cape M. áloi (Little Kabárdi,) the
river, like a good Moslem, bending religiously to the east, and peacefully spreading over the
hated shore, gliding sometimes over beds of stone, sometimes over banks of clay, falls, by
Kizlár, into the basin of the Caspian. There alone does it deign to bear boats upon its waters,
and, like a labourer, turn the huge wheels of floating mills. On its right bank, among hillocks
and thickets, are scattered the villages (aoúle) of the Kabardínetzes, a tribe which we confound
under one name with the Tcherkéss, (Circassians,) who dwell beyond the Koubán, and with the
Tchetchenétzes much lower by the sea. These villages on the bank are peaceful only in name,
for in reality they are the haunts of brigands, who acknowledge the Russian government only
as far as it suits their interest, capturing, as Russian subjects, from the mountaineers, the
plunder they seize in the Russian frontier. Enjoying free passage on all sides, they inform
those of the same religion and the same way of thinking, of the movement of our troops, and
the condition of our fortresses; conceal them among themselves when they are assembling for
an incursion, buy their plunder at their return, furnish them with Russian salt and powder,
and not rarely take themselves a part, secret or open, in their forays. It is exceedingly irritating
to see, even in full view of these mountaineers, nations hostile to us boldly swim over the
Térek, two, three, or five men at a time, and in broad day set to work to rob; it being useless
to pursue them, as their dress has nothing to distinguish them from the friendly tribes. On
the opposite bank, though apparently quite peaceable, and employing this as their excuse, they
fall, when in force, upon travellers, carry off cattle and men when off their guard, slaughter
them without mercy, or sell them into slavery at a distance. To say the truth, their natural
position, between two powerful neighbours, of necessity compels them to have recourse to these
stratagems. Knowing that the Russians will not pass to the other side of the river to protect
them from the revenge of the mountaineers, who melt away like snow at the approach of a strong
force, they easily and habitually, as well as from inevitable circumstances, ally themselves
to people of their own blood, while they affect to pay deference to the Russians, whom they fear.

Indeed, there exists among them certain persons really devoted to the Russians, but the greater
number will betray even their own countrymen for a bribe. In general, the morality of these
peaceful allies of ours is completely corrupted; they have lost the courage of an independent
people, and have acquired all the vices of half-civilization. Among them an oath is a jest;
treachery, their glory; even hospitality, a trade. Each of them is ready to engage himself
to the Russians in the morning, as a kounák (friend), and at night to guide a brigand to rob
his new friend.

The left bank of the Térek is covered with flourishing stanítzas [21] of the Kazáks of the
Line, the descendants of the famous Zaporójetzes. Among them is here and there a Christian
village. These Kazáks are distinguished from the mountaineers only by their unshaven heads:
their tools, dress, harness, manners--all are of the mountains. They like the almost ceaseless
war with the mountaineers; it is not a battle, but a trial of arms, in which each party desires
to gain glory by his superiority in strength, valour, and address. Two Kazáks would not fear
to encounter four mountain horsemen, and with equal numbers they are invariably victors. Lastly,
they speak the Tartar language; they are connected with the mountaineers by friendship and
alliance, their women being mutually carried off into captivity; but in the field they are
inflexible enemies. As it is not forbidden to make incursions on the mountain side of the Térek,
the brigands frequently betake themselves thither by swimming the river, for the chase of various
kinds of game. The mountain brigands, in their turn, frequently swim over the Térek at night,
or cross it on bourdoúchs, (skins blown up,) hide themselves in the reeds, or under a projection
of the bank, thence gliding through the thickets to the road, to carry off an unsuspecting
traveller, or to seize a woman, as she is raking the hay. It sometimes happens that they will
pass a day or two in the vineyards by the village, awaiting a favourable opportunity to fall
upon it unexpectedly; and hence the Kazák of the Line never stirs over his threshold without
his dagger, nor goes into the field without his gun at his back: he ploughs and sows completely
armed.

[Footnote 21: Villages of Kazáks.]

For some time past, the mountaineers had fallen in considerable numbers only on Christian villages,
for in the stanítzas the resistance had cost them very dear. For the plundering of houses;
they approached boldly yet cunningly the Russian frontier, and on such occasions they frequently
escaped a battle. The bravest Ouzdéns desire to meet with these affairs that they may acquire
fame, which they value even more than plunder.

In the autumn of the year 1819, the Kabardínetzes and Tchetchenétzes, encouraged by the absence
of the commander-in-chief, assembled to the number of 1500 men to make an attack upon one of
the villages beyond the Térek, to seize it, carry off prisoners, and take the droves of horses.
The leader of the Kabardínetzes was the Prince (Kniázek) Djenboulát. Ammalát Bek, who had arrived
with a letter from Sultan Akhmet Khan, was received with delight. They did not, indeed, assign
him the command of any division; but this arose from the circumstance that with them there
is no order of battle or gradation of command; an active horse and individual courage secures
the most distinguished place in action. At first they deliberate how best to begin the attack--how
to repel the enemy; but afterwards they pay no attention to plan or order, and chance decides
the affair. Having sent messengers to summon the neighbouring Ouzdéns, Djemboulát fixed on
a place of assembling; and immediately, on a signal agreed on, from every height spread the
cry, "Gharái, gharái!" (alarm,) and in one hour the Tchetchenétzes and Kabardínetzes were assembling
from all sides. To avoid treason, no one but the leader knew where the night-camp was to be,
from which they where to cross the river. They were divided into small bands, and were to go
by almost invisible paths to the peaceful village, where they were to conceal themselves till
night. By twilight, all the divisions were already mustered. As they arrived, they were received
by their countrymen with frank embraces; but Djemboulát, not trusting to this, guarded the
village with sentinels, and proclaimed to the inhabitants, that whoever attempted to desert
to the Russians should be cut in pieces. The greater part of the Ouzdéns took up their quarters
in the sáklas of their kounáks or relations; but Djemboulát and Ammalát, with the best of the
cavaliers, slept in the open air round a fire, when they had refreshed their jaded horses.
Djemboulát, wrapped in his boúrka, was considering, with folded arms, the plan of the expedition;
but the thoughts of Ammalát were far from the battle-field: they were flying, eagle-winged,
to the mountains of Avar, and bitterly, bitterly did he feel his separation. The sound of an
instrument, the mountain balaláika, (kanous,) accompanying a slow air, recalled him from his
reverie, and a Kabardínetz sung an ancient song.

  "On Kazbék the clouds are meeting,
    like the mountain eagle-flock;
    up to them, along the rock,
  Dash the wild Ouzdéns retreating;
  Onward faster, faster fleeting,
    Routed by the Russian brood.
    Foameth all their track with blood."

  "Fast behind the regiments yelling,
    Lance and bayonet raging hot,
    And the seed of death their shot.
  On the mail the sabre dwelling
  Gallop, steed! for far thy dwelling--
    See! they fall--but distant still
    Is the forest of the hill!"

  "Russian shot our hearts is rending,
    Falls the Mullah on his knee,
    To the Lord of Light bows he,
  To the Prophet he is bending:
  Like a shaft his prayer ascending,
    Upward flies to Allah's throne--
  Il-Alláh! O save thine own!"

  "Ah, despair!--What crash like thunder!
    Lo! a sign from heaven above!
    Lo! the forest seems to move
  Crashes, murmurs, bursts asunder!
  Lower, nearer, wonder! wonder!
    Safe once more the Moslem bold
    In their forest mountain-hold!"

"So it was in old times," said Djemboulát, with a smile, "when our old men trusted more to
prayer, and God oftener listened to them; but now, my friends, there is a better hope--your
valour! Our omens are in the scabbards of our shoóshkas, (sabres,) and we must show that we
are not ashamed of them. Harkye, Ammalát," he continued, twisting his mustache, "I will not
conceal from you that the affair may be warm. I have just heard that Colonel K---- has collected
his division; but where he is, or how many troops he has, nobody knows."

"The more Russians there are the better," replied Ammalát, quietly; "the fewer mistakes will
be made."

"And the heavier will be the plunder."

"I care not for that. I seek revenge and glory."

"Glory is a good bird, when she lays a golden egg; but he that returns with his toróks (straps
behind the saddle) empty, is ashamed to appear before his wife. Winter is near, and we must
provide our households at the expense of the Russians, that we may feast our friends and allies.
Choose your station, Ammalát Bek. Do you prefer to advance in front to carry off the flocks,
or will you remain with me in the rear? I and the Abréks will march at a foot's pace to restrain
the pursuers."

"That is what I also intend. I will be where the greatest peril is. But what are the Abréks,
Djemboulát?"

"It is not easy to explain. You sometimes see several of our boldest cavaliers take an oath,
binding them for two or three years, or as long as they like, never to mingle in games or gayeties,
never to spare their lives in battle, to give no quarter, never to pardon the least offence
in a brother or a friend, to seize the goods of others without fear or scruple--in a word,
to be the foes of all mankind, strangers in their family, men whom any person may slay if he
can; in the village they are dangerous neighbours, and in meeting them you must keep your hand
on the trigger; but in war one can trust them." [22]

"For what motive, or reason, can the Ouzdens make such an engagement?"

"Some simply to show their courage, others from poverty, a third class from some misfortune.
See, for instance, yonder tall Kabardínetz; he has sworn to be an Abrék for five years, since
his mistress died of the small-pox. Since that year it would be as well to make acquaintance
with a tiger as with him. He has already been wounded three times for blood-vengeance; but
he cares not for that."

"Strange custom! How will he return from the life of an Abrék to a peaceable existence?"

"What is there strange in this? The past glides from him as water from the wild-duck. His neighbours
will be delighted when he has finished his term of brigandage. And he, after putting off Abrétchestva
(Abrékism) as a serpent sheds his skin, will become gentle as a lamb. Among us, none but the
avenger of blood remembers yesterday. But the night is darkening. The mists are spreading over
Térek. It is time for the work."

Djemboulát whistled, and his whistle was repeated to all the outposts of the camp. In a moment
the whole band was assembled. Several Ouzdéns joined from the neighbouring friendly villages.
After a short discussion as to the passage of the river, the band moved in silence to the bank.
Ammalát Bek could not but admire the stillness, not only of the riders, but of their horses;
not one of them neighed or snorted, and they seemed to place their feet on the ground with
caution. They marched like a voiceless cloud, and soon they reached the bank of Térek, which,
making a winding at this spot, formed a promontory, and from it to the opposite shore, extended
a pebbly shoal. The water over this bank was shallow and fordable; nevertheless, a part of
the detachment left the shore higher up, in order to swim past the Kazáks, and, diverting their
attention from the principal passage, to cover the fording party. Those who had confidence
in their horses, leaped unhesitatingly from the bank, while others tied to each fore-foot of
their steeds a pair of small skins, inflated with air like bladders; the current bore them
on, and each landed wherever he found a convenient spot. The impenetrable veil of mist concealed
all these movements. It must be remarked, that along the whole line of the river is a chain
of mayáks (watch-towers) and a cordon of sentinels: on all the hills and elevated spots are
placed look-outs. On passing before them in the daytime, may be seen on each hillock a pole,
surmounted with a small barrel. This is filled with pitch and straw, and is ready to be lighted
on the first alarm. To this pole is generally tied a Kazák's horse, and by his side a sentinel.
In the night, these sentinels are doubled; but in spite of the precautions, the Tcherkéss,
concealed by the fog, and clothed in their boúrka, sometimes pass through the line in small
bodies, as water glides through a sieve. The same thing happened on this occasion: perfectly
acquainted with the country, the Beláds, (guides) peaceable Tcherkéss, led each party, and
in profound silence avoided the hillocks.

[Footnote 22: This is exactly the Berserkir of the ancient Northmen. Examples of this frantic
courage are not rare among the Asiatics.]

In two places only had the brigands, to break through the line of watch-fires which might have
betrayed them, resolved to kill the sentinels. Against one picket, Djemboulát proceeded himself,
and he ordered another Bek to creep up the bank, pass round to the rear of the picket, count
a hundred, and then to strike fire with a flint and steel several times. It was said and done.
Just lifting his head above the edge of the bank, Djemboulát saw a Kazák slumbering with the
match in his hand, and holding his horse by the bridle. As soon as the clicking struck his
ear, the sentinel started, and turned an anxious look on the river. Fearing that the sentinel
did not remark him, Djemboulát threw up his cap, and again crouched down behind the bank. "Accursed
duck!" said the Donétz; "for this night is a carnival. They squatter away like the witches
of Kíeff." At this moment, the sparks appeared on the opposite side, and drew his attention:
"'Tis the wolves," thought he: "sometimes their eyes glitter brightly!" But the sparks reappearing,
he was stupefied, remembering stories that the Tchetchenétzes sometimes use this kind of signal
to regulate the movements of their march. This moment of suspense and irresolution was the
moment of his destruction; a dagger [23], directed by a strong arm, whistled through the air,
and the Kazák, transfixed, fell without a groan to the earth. His comrade was sabred in his
sleep, and the pole with the tub was torn down, and was thrown into the river. All then rapidly
assembled at the given signal, and dashed in a moment on the village which they had determined
to attack. The blow was successfully, that is, quite unexpectedly, struck. Such of the peasants
as had time to arm, were killed after a desperate resistance: the others hid themselves or
fled. Besides the plunder, a number of men and women was the reward of their boldness. The
Kabardínetzes broke into the houses, carrying off all that was most valuable, indeed every
thing that came to hand: but they did not set fire to the houses, nor did they tread down the
corn, nor break the vines: "Why touch the gift of God, and the labour of man?" said they; and
this rule of a mountain robber, who shrinks at no crime, is a virtue which the most civilized
nations might envy. In an hour, all was over for the inhabitants, but not for the brigands.
The alarm spread along the line, and the mayáks soon began to glimmer through the fog like
the stars of morning, while the call to arms resounded in every direction. In this interval,
a party of the more experienced among the brigands had gone round the troop of horses which
was grazing far in the steppe. The herdsman was seized, and with cries, and firing their guns,
they charged at the horses from the land side. The animals started, threw mane and tail into
the air, and dashed headlong on the track of a Tcherkéss mounted on a superb steed, who had
remained on the bank of the river to guide the frightened herd. Like a skilful pilot, well
acquainted, even in a fog, with all the dangers of the desert sea, the Tcherkéss flew on before
the horses, wound his way among the posts, and at last, having chosen a spot where the bank
was most precipitous, leaped headlong into the Térek. The whole herd followed him: nothing
could be seen but the foam that flew into the air. Daybreak appeared; the fog began to separate,
and discovered a picture at once magnificent and terrible. The principal band of forayers dragged
the prisoners after it--some were at the stirrup, others behind the saddle, with their arms
tied at their backs. Tears, and groans, and cries of despair were stifled by the threats and
frantic cries of joy of the victors. Loaded with plunder, impeded by the flocks and horned
cattle, they advanced slowly towards the Térek. The princes and best cavaliers, in mail-coats
and casques glittering like water, galloped around the dense mass, as lightning flashes round
a livid cloud. In the distance, were galloping up from every point the Kazáks of the Line;
they ambushed behind the shrubs and straggling oak-trees, and soon began an irregular fire
with the brigands who were sent against them.

[Footnote 23: The Tartars and Circassians possess extraordinary dexterity in the use of their
national weapon--the kinjál, or poniard. These are sometimes of great size and weight, and
when thrown by a skilful hand, will fly a considerable distance, and with the most singular
accuracy of aim.]

In the meantime, the foremost had driven across the river a portion of the flocks, when a cloud
of dust, and the tramp of cavalry, announced the approaching storm. About six hundred mountaineers,
commanded by Djemboulát and Ammalát, turned their horses to repulse the attack, and give time
to the rest to escape by the river. Without order, but with wild cries and shouts, they dashed
forward to meet the Kazáks; but not a single gun was taken from its belt, not a single sháshka
glimmered in the air: a Tcherkéss waits till the last moment before he seizes his weapons.
And thus, having galloped to the distance of twenty paces, they levelled their guns, fired
at full speed, threw their fire-arms over their backs, [24] and drew their sháshkas; but the
Kazáks of the Line having replied with a volley, began to fly, and the mountaineers, heated
by the chase, fell into a stratagem which they often employ themselves. The Kazáks had led
them up to the chasseurs of the brave forty-third regiment, who were concealed at the edge
of the forest. Suddenly, as if the little squares had started out of the earth, the bayonets
were leveled, and the fire poured on them, taking them in flank. It was in vain that the mountaineers,
dismounting from their horses, essayed to occupy the underwood, and attack the Russians from
the rear; the artillery came up, and decided the affair. The experienced Colonel Kortsaréff,
the dread of the Tchetchenétz, the man whose bravery they feared, and whose honesty and disinterestedness
they respected, directed the movements of the troops, and success could not be doubtful. The
cannon dispersed the crowds of brigands, and their grape flew after the flying. The defeat
was terrible; two guns, dashing at a gallop to the promontory, not far from which the Tcherkéss
were throwing themselves into the river, enfiladed the stream; with a rushing sound, the shot
flew over the foaming waves, and at each fire some of the horses might be seen to turn over
with their feet in the air, drowning their riders. It was sad to see how the wounded clutched
at the tails and bridles of the horses of their companions, sinking them without saving themselves--how
the exhausted struggled against the scarped bank, endeavouring to clamber up, fell back, and
were borne away and engulfed by the furious current. The corpses of the slain were whirled
away, mingled with the dying and streaks of blood curled and writhed like serpents on the foam.
The smoke floated far along the Térek, far in the distance, and the snowy peaks of Caucasus,
crowned with mist, bounded the field of battle. Djemboulát and Ammalát Bek fought desperately--twenty
times did they rush to the attack, twenty times were they repulsed; wearied, but not conquered,
with a hundred brigands they swam the river, dismounted, attached their horses to each other
by the bridle, and began a warm fire from the other side of the river, to cover their surviving
comrades. Intent upon this, they remarked, too late, that the Kazáks were passing the river
above them; with a shout of joy, the Russians leaped upon the bank, and surrounded them in
a moment. Their fate was inevitable. "Well, Djemboulát," said the Bek to the Kabardínetz, "our
lot is finished. Do you what you will; but for me, I will not render myself a prisoner alive.
'Tis better to die by a ball than by a shameful cord!" "Do you think," answered Djemboulát,
"that my arms were made for a chain! Allah keep me from such a blot: the Russians may take
my body, but not my soul. Never, never! Brethren, comrades!" he cried to the others; "fortune
has betrayed us, but the steel will not. Let us sell our lives dearly to the Giaour. The victor
is not he who keeps the field, but he who has the glory; and the glory is his who prefers death
to slavery!" "Let us die, let us die; but let us die gloriously," cried all, piercing with
their daggers the sides of their horses, that the enemy might not take them, and then piling
up the dead bodies of their steeds, they lay down behind the heap, preparing to meet the attack
with lead and steel. Well aware of the obstinate resistance they were about to encounter, the
Kazáks stopped, and made ready for the charge. The shot from the opposite bank sometimes fell
in the midst of the brave mountaineers, sometimes a grenade exploded, covering them with earth
and fragments; but they showed no confusion, they started not, nor blenched; and, after the
custom of their country, began to sing, with a melancholy, yet threatening voice, the death-song,
replying alternately stanza for stanza.

[Footnote 24: The oriental nations carry their guns at their backs, supported by a strap passing
across the breast.]

DEATH-SONG.

  CHORUS.

  "Fame to us, death to you,
  Alla-ha, Alla-hu!!"

  SEMICHORUS.

  "Weep, O ye maidens, on mountain and valley,
  Lift the dirge for the sons of the brave;
  We have fired our last bullet, have made our last rally,
  And Caucasus gives us a grave.
  Here the soft pipe no more shall invite us to slumber
  --The thunder our lullaby sings;
  Our eyes not the maiden's dark tresses shall cumber,
  Them the raven shall shade with his wings!
  Forget, O my children, your father's stern duty--
  No more shall he bring ye the Muscovite booty!"

  SECOND SEMICHORUS.

  "Weep not, O ye maidens; your sisters in splendour,
  The Houris, they bend from the sky,
  They fix on the brave their sun-glance deep and tender,
  And to Paradise bear him on high!
  In your feast-cup, my brethren, forget not our story;
  The death of the Free is the noblest of glory!"

  FIRST SEMICHORUS.

  "Roar, winter torrent, and sullenly dash!
  But where is the brave one--the swift lightning-flash?
    Soft star of my soul, my mother,
    Sleep, the fire let ashes smother;
  Gaze no more, shine eyes are weary,
    Sit not by the threshold stone;
  Gaze not through the night-fog dreary,
    Eat thine evening meal alone,
  Seek him not, O mother, weeping,
    By the cliff and by the ford:
  On a bed of dust he's sleeping--
    Broken is both heart and sword!"

  SECOND SEMICHORUS.

  "Mother, weep not! with thy love burning:
    This heart of mine beats full and free,
  And to lion-blood is turning
    That soft milks I drew from thee;
  And our liberty from danger
    Thy brave son has guarded well;
  Battling with the Christian stranger,
    Call'd by Azrael, he fell;
  From my blood fresh odours breathing
    Fadeless flowers shall drink the dew;
  To my children fame bequeathing,
    Brethren, and revenge to you!"

  CHORUS.

  "Pray, my brethren, ere we part;
    Clutch the steel with hate and wrath!
  Break it in the Russian's heart--
  O'er corpses lies the brave man's path!
     Fame to us, death to you,
    Alla-ha, Alla-hu!"

Struck by a certain involuntary awe, the Chasseurs and Kazáks listened in silence to the stern
sounds of this song; but at last a loud hurrah [25] resounded from both sides. The Teherkéss,
with a shout, fired their guns for the last time, and breaking them against the stones, they
threw themselves, dagger in hand, upon the Russians. The Abréks, in order that their line might
not be broken, bound themselves to each other with their girdles, and hurled themselves into
the mêlée. Quarter was neither asked nor given: all fell before the bayonets of the Russians.
"Forward! follow me, Ammalát Bek," cried Djemboulat, with fury, rushing into the combat which
was to be his last--"Forward! for us death is liberty." But Anmalát heard not his call; a blow
from a musket on the back of the head stretched him on the earth, already sown with corpses,
and covered with blood.

[Footnote 25: "Hurrah" means strike in the Tartar language.]

CHAPTER. V.

LETTER FROM COLONEL VERHOFFSKY TO HIS BETROTHED.

  From Derbénd to Smolénsk. October, 1819.

Two months--how easy to say it!--two centuries have past, dearest Maria, while your letter
was creeping to me. Twice has the moon made her journey round the earth. You cannot imagine,
dearest, how dreary is this idle objectless life to me; with nothing to employ me--not even
correspondence. I go out, I meet the Kazák [26] with a secret trembling of heart: with what
joy, with what exstacy do I kiss the lines traced by a pure hand, inspired by a pure heart--yours,
my Maria! With a greedy rapture my eyes devour the letter: then I am happy--I am wild with
joy. But hardly have I reclosed it when unquiet thoughts again begin to haunt me. "All this
is well," I think; "but all this is past, and I desire to know the present. Is she well? Does
she love me yet? Oh! will the happy time come soon--soon--when neither time nor distance can
divide us? When the expression of our love will be no longer chilled by the cold medium of
the post!" Pardon, pardon, dearest, these black thoughts of absence. When heart is--with heart,
the lover trusts in all; in separation he doubts all. You command--for such to me is your wish--that
I should describe my life to you, day by day, hour by hour. Oh, what sad and tiresome annals
mine would be, were I to obey you! You know well, traitress, that I live not without you. My
existence--'tis but the trace of a shadow on the desert sand. My duty alone, which wearies
at least, if it cannot amuse me, helps me to get rid of the time. Thrown in a climate ruinous
to health, in society which stifles the soul, I cannot find among my companions a single person
who can sympathise with me. Nor do I find among the Asiatics any who can understand my thoughts.
All that surrounds me is either so savage or so limited, that it excites sadness and discontent.
Sooner will you obtain fire by striking ice on stone, than interest from such an existence.
But your wish to me is sacred; and I will present you, in brief, with my last week. It was
more varied than usual.

[Footnote 26: The Kazáks are employed in the Russian army frequently as couriers.]

I have told you in one of my letters, if I remember, that we are returning from the campaign
of Akoúsh, with the commander-in-chief. We have done our work; Shah Ali Khan has fled into
Persia; we have burned a number of villages, hay, and corn; and we have eaten the sheep of
the rebels, when we were hungry. When the snow had driven the insurgents from their mountain-fastnesses,
they yielded and presented hostages. We then marched to the Fort of Boúrnaya, [27] and from
this station our detachment was ordered into winter quarters. Of this division my regiment
forms a part, and our head-quarters are at Derbénd.

[Footnote 27: Stormy.]

The other day, the general, who was about to depart on another campaign on the Line, came to
take leave of us, and thus there was a larger company than usual to meet our adored commander.
Alexéi Petróvitch came from his tent, to join us at tea. Who is not acquainted with his face,
from the portraits? But they cannot be said to know Yermóloff at all, who judge of him only
by a lifeless image. Never was there a face gifted with such nobility of expression as his!
Gazing on those features, chiselled in the noble outline of the antique, you are involuntarily
carried back to the times of Roman grandeur. The poet was in the right, when he said of him:--

  "On the Koubán--fly, Tartar fleet!
  The avenger's falchion gleameth;
  His breath--the grapeshot's iron sleet,
  His voice--the thunder seemeth!
  Around his forehead stern and pale
  The fates of war are playing....
  He looks--and victory doth quail,
  That gesture proud obeying!"

You should witness his coolness in the hour of battle--you should admire him at a conference:
at one time overwhelming the Teberkéss with the flowing orientalisms of the Asiatic, at another
embarrassing their artifices with a single remark. In vain do they conceal their thoughts in
the most secret folds of their hearts; his eye follows them, disentangles and unrolls them
like worms, and guesses twenty years beforehand their deeds and their intentions. Then, again,
to see him talking frankly and like a friend with his brave soldiers, or passing with dignity
round the circle of the tchinóbniks [28] sent from the capital into Georgia. It is curious
to observe how all those whose conscience is not pure, tremble, blush, turn pale, when he fixes
on them his slow and penetrating glance; you seem to see the roubles of past bribes gliding
before the eyes of the guilty man, and his villanies come rushing on his memory. You see the
pictures of arrest, trial, judgment, sentence, and punishment, his imagination paints, anticipating
the future. No man knows so well how to distinguish merit by a single glance, a single smile--to
reward gallantry with a word, coming from, and going to, the heart. God grant us many years
to serve with such a commander!

[Footnote 28: Literally, a person possessing rank, used here to signify an employé of Government
in a civil capacity--all of whom possess some definite precedence or class (tchin) in the state. ]

But if it be thus interesting to observe him on duty, how delightful to associate with him
in society--a society to which every one distinguished for rank, bravery, or intellect, has
free access: here rank is forgotten, formality is banished; every one talks and acts as he
pleases, simply because those only who think and act as they ought, form the society. Alexéi
Petróvitch jokes with all like a comrade, and at the same time teaches like a father. As usual,
during tea, one of his adjutants read aloud; it was the account of Napoleon's Campaign in Italy--that
poem of the Art of War, as the commander-in-chief called it. The company, of course, expressed
their wonder, their admiration, their different opinions and criticisms. The remarks of Alexéi
Petróvitch were lucid, and of admirable truth.

Then began our gymnastic sports, leaping, running, leaping over the fire, and trials of strength
of various kinds. The evening and the view were both magnificent: the camp was pitched on the
side of Tarki; over it hangs the fortress of Boúrnaya, behind which the sun was sinking. Sheltered
by a cliff was the house of the Shamkhál, then the town on a steep declivity, surrounded by
the camp, and to the east the immeasurable steppe of the Caspian sea. Tartar Beks, Circassian
Princes, Kazáks from the various rivers of gigantic Russia, hostages from different mountains,
mingled with the officers. Uniforms, tchoukhás, coats of chain-mail, were picturesquely mingled;
singing and music rang through the camp, and the soldiers, with their caps jauntily cocked
on one side, were walking in crowds at a distance. The scene was delightful; it charmed by
its picturesque variety and the force and freshness of military life. Captain Bekóvitch was
boasting that he could strike off the head of a buffalo with one blow of a kinjál; [29] and
two of those clumsy animals were immediately brought.

[Footnote 29: It is absurd to observe the incredulity of Europeans as to the possibility of
cutting off a head with the kinjál: it is necessary to live only one week in the East to be
quite convinced of the possibility of the feat. In a practiced hand the kinjál is a substitute
for the hatchet, the bayonet, and the sabre.]

Bets were laid; all were disputing and doubting. The Captain, with a smile, seized with his
left hand a huge dagger, and in an instant an immense head fell at the feet of the astonished
spectators, whose surprise was instantly succeeded by a desire to do the same: they hacked
and hewed, but all in vain. Many of the strongest men among the Russians and Asiatics made
unsuccessful attempts to perform the feat, but to do this strength alone was not sufficient.
"You are children--children!" cried the commander-in-chief: and he rose from table, calling
for his sword--a blade which never struck twice, as he told us. An immense heavy sabre was
brought him, and Alexéi Petróvitch, though confident in his strength, yet, like Ulysses in
the Odyssey, anointing the bow which no one else could bend, first felt the edge, waved the
weapon thrice in the air, and at length addressed himself to the feat. The betters had hardly
time to strike hands when the buffalo's head bounded at their feet on the earth. So swift and
sure was the blow, that the trunk stood for some instants on its legs, and then gently, softly,
sank down. A cry of astonishment arose from all: Alexéi Petróvitch quietly looked whether his
sabre was notched--for the weapon had cost him many thousands [of roubles], and presented it
as a keepsake to Captain Bekóvitch.

We were still whispering among ourselves when there appeared before the commander-in-chief
an officer of the Kazáks of the Line, with a message from Colonel Kortsáreff, who was stationed
on the frontier. When he had received the report, the countenance of Alexéi Petróvitch brightenened--"Kortsáreff
has gloriously trounced the mountaineers!" said he. "These rascals have made a plundering expedition
beyond the Térek; they have passed far within the Line, and have plundered a village--but they
have lost not only the cattle they had taken, but fallen a sacrifice to their own fool-hardiness."
Having minutely questioned Yesoúal respecting the details of the affair, he ordered the prisoners
whom they had taken, wounded or recovering, to be brought before him. Five were led into the
presence of the commander-in-chief.

A cloud passed over his countenance as he beheld them; his brow contracted, his eyes sparkled.
"Villains!" said he to the Ouzdéns; "you have thrice sworn not to plunder; and thrice have
you broken your oath. What is it that you seek? Lands? Flocks? Means to defend the one or the
other? But no! you are willing to accept presents from the Russians as allies, and at the same
time to guide the Tcherkéss to plunder our villages, and to plunder along with them. Hang them!"
said he sternly; "hang them up by their own thievish arkáus (girdles)! Let them draw lots:
the fourth shall be spared--let him go and tell his countrymen that I am coming to teach them
to keep faith, and keep the peace, as I will have it."

The Ouzdéns were conducted away.

There remained one Tartar bek, whom we had not remarked. This was a young man of twenty-five,
of unusual beauty, graceful as the Belvidere Apollo. He bowed slightly to the commander-in
chief as he approached him, raised his cap, and again resumed his proud indifferent expression;
unshaken resignation to his fate was written on his features.

The commander-in-chief fixed his stern eye upon his face, but the young man neither changed
countenance nor quivered an eyelash.

"Ammalát Bek," said Alexéi Petróvitch, after a pause, "do you remember that you are a Russian
subject? that the Russian laws are above you?"

"It would have been impossible to forget that," replied the Bek: "if I had found in those laws
a protection for my rights, I should not now stand before you a prisoner."

"Ungrateful boy!" cried the commander-in-chief; "your father--you yourself, have been the enemy
of the Russians. Had it been during the Persian domination of your race, not even the ashes
would have remained; but our Emperor was generous, and instead of punishing you he gave you
lands. And how did you repay his kindness? By secret plot and open revolt! This is not all:
you received and sheltered in your house a sworn foe to Russia; you permitted him, before your
eyes, traitorously to slaughter a Russian officer. In spite of all this, had you brought me
a submissive head, I would have pardoned you, on account of your youth and the customs of your
nation. But you fled to the mountains, and with Suleiman Akhmet Khan you committed violence
within the Russian bounds; you were beaten, and again you make an incursion with Djemboulát.
You cannot but know what fate awaits you."

"I do," coldly answered Ammalát Bek: "I shall be shot."

"No! a bullet is too honourable a death for a brigand," cried the angry general: "a cart with
the shafts turned up--a cord round your neck--that is the fitting reward."

"It is all one how a man dies," replied Ammalát, "provided he dies speedily. I ask one favour:
do not let me be tormented with a trial: that is thrice death."

"Thou deservest a hundred deaths, audacious! but I promise you. Be it so: to-morrow thou shalt
die. Assemble a court-martial," continued the commander-in-chief, turning to his staff: "the
fact is clear, the proof is before your eyes, and let all be finished at one sitting, before
my departure."

He waved his hand, and the condemned prisoner was removed.

The fate of this fine young man touched us all. Every body was whispering about him; every
body pitying him; the more, that there appeared no means of saving him. Every one knew well
the necessity of punishing this double treason, and the inflexibility of Alexéi Petróvitch
in matters of this publicity: and, therefore, no one dared to intercede for the unfortunate
culprit. The commander-in-chief was unusually thoughtful for the remainder of the evening,
and the party separated early. I determined to speak a word for him--"Perhaps," I thought,
"I may obtain some commutation of the sentence." I opened one of the curtains of the tent,
and advanced softly into the presence of Alexéi Petróvitch. He was sitting alone, resting both
arms on a table; before him lay a despatch for the Emperor, half finished, and which he was
writing without any previous copy. Alexéi Petróvitch knew me as an officer of the suite, and
we had been acquainted since the battle of Kulm. At that time he had been very kind to me,
and therefore my visit was not surprising to him. "I see--I see, Evstáfii Ivánovitch, you have
a design upon my heart! In general you come in as if you were marching up to a battery, but
now you hardly walk on tip-toe. This is not for nothing. I am sure you are come with a request
about Ammalát."

"You have guessed it," said I to Alexéi Petróvitch, not knowing how to begin.

"Sit down, then, and let us talk it over," he replied. Then, after a silence of a couple of
minutes, he continued, kindly, "I know that a report goes about respecting me, that I treat
the lives of men as a plaything--their blood as water. The most cruel tyrants have hidden their
bloodthirstiness under a mask of benevolence. They feared a reputation for cruelty, though
they feared not to commit deeds of cruelty; but I--I have intentionally clothed myself with
this sort of character, and purposely dressed my name in terror. I desire, and it is my duty
to desire, that my name should protect our frontier more effectually than lines and fortresses--that
a single word of mine should be, to the Asiatics, more certain, more inevitable, than death.
The European may be reasoned with: he is influenced by conscience, touched by kindness, attached
by pardon, won by benefits; but to the Asiatic all this is an infallible proof of weakness;
and to him I--even from motives of philanthropy--have shown myself unmitigably severe. A single
execution preserves a hundred Russians from destruction, and deters a thousand Mussulmans from
treason. Evstáfii Ivánovitch, many will not believe my words, because each conceals the cruelty
of his nature, and his secret revengefulness, under excuses of necessity--each says, with a
pretence of feeling, 'Really I wish from my heart to pardon, but be judges yourselves--can
I? What, after this, are laws--what is the general welfare?' All this I never say; in my eyes
no tear is seen when I sign a sentence of death: but my heart bleeds."

Alexéi Petróvitch was touched; he walked agitatedly several times up and down the tent; then
seated himself, and continued--"Never, in spite of all this, never has it been so difficult
to me to punish as this day. He who, like me, has lived much among the Asiatics, ceases to
trust in Lavater, and places no more confidence in a handsome face than in a letter of recommendation;
but the look, the expression, the demeanour of this Ammalát, have produced on me an unusual
impression. I am sorry for him."

"A generous heart," said I, "is a better oracle than reason."

"The heart of a conscientious man, my dear friend, ought to be under the command of reason.
I certainly can pardon Ammalát, but I ought to punish him. Daghestán is still filled with the
enemies of Russia, notwithstanding their assurances of submission; even Tarki is ready to revolt
at the first movement in the mountains: we must rivet their chains by punishment, and show
the Tartars that no birth can screen the guilty--that all are equal in the sight of the Russian
law. If I pardon Ammalát, all his relations will begin to boast that Yermóloff is afraid of
the Shamkhál." I remarked, that indulgence shown to so extensive a clan would have a good effect
on the country--in particular the Shamkhál.

"The Shamkhal is an Asiatic," interrupted Alexéi Petróvitch; "he would be delighted that this
heir to the Shamkhalát should be sent to the Elysian fields. Besides, I care very little to
guess or gratify the wishes of his kinsmen."

I saw that the commander-in-chief began to waver, and I urged him more pressingly. "Let me
serve for three years," said I; "do not give me leave of absence this year--only have mercy
on this young man. He is young, and Russia may find in him a faithful servant. Generosity is
never thrown away."

Alexéi Petróvitch shook his head.

"I have made many ungrateful," said he, "already; but be it so. I pardon him, and not by halves--that
is not my way. I thank you for having helped me to be merciful, not to say weak. Only remember
my words: You wish to take him to yourself--do not trust him; do not warm a serpent in your bosom."

I was so delighted with my success, that, hastily quitting the commander-in-chief, I ran to
the tent in which Ammalát Bek was confined. Three sentinels were guarding him; a lantern was
burning in the midst. I entered; the prisoner was lying wrapped up in his boúrka, and tears
were sparkling on his face. He did not hear my entrance, so profoundly was he buried in thought.
To whom is it pleasant to part with life? I was rejoiced that I brought comfort to him at so
melancholy a moment.

"Ammalát," said I, "Allah is great, and the Sardár is merciful; he has granted you your life!"

The delighted prisoner started up, and endeavoured to reply, but the breath was stifled in
his breast. Immediately, however, a shade of gloom covered his features. "Life!" he exclaimed;
"I understand this generosity! To consign a man to a breathless dungeon, without light or air--to
send him to eternal winter, to a night never illumined by a star--to bury him alive in the
bowels of the earth--to take from him not only the power to act, not only the means of life,
but even the privilege of telling his kinsmen of his sad lot--to deny him not only the right
to complain, but even the power of murmuring his sorrow to the wind. And this you call life!
this unceasing torment you boast of as rare generosity! Tell the General that I want not--that
I scorn--such a life."

"You are mistaken, Ammalát," I cried; "you are fully pardoned: remain what you were, the master
of your actions and possessions. There is your sword. The commander-in-chief is sure that in
future you will unsheathe it only for the Russians. I offer you one condition; come and live
with me till the report of your actions has died away. You shall be to be as a friend, as a
brother."

This struck the Asiatic. Tears shone in his eyes. "The Russians have conquered me," he said:
"pardon me, colonel, that I thought ill of all of you. From henceforth I am a faithful servant
of the Russian Tsar--a faithful friend to the Russians, soul and sword. My sword, my sword!"
he cried, gazing fixedly on his costly blade; "let these tears wash from thee the Russian blood
and the Tartar naphtha! [30] When and how can I reward you, with my service, for liberty and life?"

[Footnote 30: The Tartars, to preserve their weapons, and to produce a black colour on them,
smoke the metal, and then rub it with naphtha.]

I am sure, my dear Maria, that you will keep me, for this, one of your sweetest kisses. Ever,
ever, when feeling or acting generously, I console myself with the thought, "My Maria will
praise me for this!" But when is this to happen, my darling? Fate is but a stepmother to us.
Your mourning is prolonged, and the commander-in-chief has decidedly refused me leave of absence;
nor am I much displeased, annoying as it is: my regiment is in a bad state of discipline--indeed,
as bad as can be imagined; besides, I am charged with the construction of new barracks and
the colonization of a married company. If I were absent for a month, every thing would go wrong.
If I remain, what a sacrifice of my heart!

Here we have been at Derbénd three days. Ammalát lives with me: he is silent, sad, and savage;
but his fear is interesting, nevertheless. He speaks Russian very well, and I have commenced
teaching him to read and write. His intelligence is unusually great. In time, I hope to make
him a most charming Tartar. (The conclusion of the letter has no reference to our story.)

Fragment of another letter from Colonel Verhóffsky to his fiancée, written six months after
the preceding.

From Derbénd to Smolénsk.

Your favourite Ammalát, my dearest Maria, will soon be quite Russianized. The Tartar Beks,
in general, think the first step of civilization consists in the use of the unlawful wine and
pork. I, on the contrary, have begun by re-educating the mind of Ammalát. I show him, I prove
to him, what is bad in the customs of his nation, and what is good in those of ours; I explain
to him universal and eternal truths. I read with him, I accustom him to write, and I remark
with pleasure that he takes the deepest interest in composition. I may say, indeed, that he
is passionately fond of it; for with him every wish, every desire, every caprice, is a passion--an
ardent and impatient passion. It is difficult for a European to imagine, and still more difficult
to understand, the inflammability of the unruly, or rather unbridled, passions of an Asiatic,
with whom the will alone has been, since childhood, the only limit to his desires. Our passions
are like domestic animals; or, if they are wild beasts, they are tamed, and taught to dance
upon the rope of the "conveniences," with a ring through their nostrils and their claws cut:
in the East they are free as the lion and the tiger.

It is curious to observe, on the countenance of Ammalát, the blush with which his features
are covered at the least contradiction; the fire with which he is filled at any dispute; but
as soon as he finds that he is in the wrong, he turns pale, and seems ready to weep. "I am
in the wrong," says he; "pardon me: takhsirumdam ghitch, (blot out my fault;) forget that I
am wrong, and that you have pardoned me." He has a good heart, but a heart always ready to
be set on fire, either by a ray of the sun or by a spark of hell. Nature has gifted him with
all that is necessary to render him a man, as well in his moral as physical constitution; but
national prejudices, and the want of education, have done all that is possible to disfigure
and to corrupt these natural qualities. His mind is a mixture of all sorts of inconsistencies,
of the most absurd ideas, and of the soundest thoughts: sometimes he seizes instantly abstract
propositions when they are presented to him in a simple form, and again he will obstinately
oppose the plainest and most evident truths: because the former are quite new to him, and the
latter are obscured by previous prejudices and impressions. I begin to fancy that it is easier
to build a new edifice than to reconstruct an old one.

But how happens it that Ammalát is melancholy and absent? He makes great progress in every
thing that does not require an attentive and continuous reflection, and a gradual development;
but when the matter involves remote consequences, his mind resembles a short fire-arm, which
sends its charge quickly, direct, and strongly, but not to any distance. Is this a defect of
his mind? or is it that his attention is entirely occupied with something else? ... For a man
of twenty-three, however, it is easy to imagine the cause. Sometimes he appears to be listening
attentively to what I am telling him; but when I ask for his answer, he seems all abroad. Sometimes
I find the tears flowing from his eyes: I address him--he neither hears nor sees me. Last night
he was restless in his sleep, and I heard the word "seltanét--seltanét," (power, power,) frequently
escape him. Is it possible that the love of power can so torment a young heart? No, no! another
passion agitates, troubles the soul of Ammalát. Is it for me to doubt of the symptoms of love's
divine disease? He is in love--he is passionately in love; but with whom? Oh, I will know!
Friendship is as curious as a woman.

OCCUPATION OF ADEN.

"It is only by a naval power," says Gibbon, "that the reduction of Yemen can be successfully
attempted"--a remark, by the way, which more than one of the ancients had made before him.
All the comparatively fertile districts in the south of Arabia, in fact, are even more completely
insulated by the deserts and barren mountains of the interior on one side, than by the sea
on the other--inasmuch as easier access would be gained by an invader, even by the dangerous
and difficult navigation of the Red Sea, than by a march through a region where the means of
subsistence do not exist, and where the Bedoweens, by choking or concealing the wells, might
in a moment cut off even the scanty supply of water which the country affords. This mode of
passive resistance was well understood and practised by them as early as the time of Ælius
Gallus, the first Roman general who conceived the hope of rifling the virgin treasures popularly
believed to be buried in the inaccessible hoards of the princes of Arabia, whose realms were
long looked upon--perhaps on the principle of omne ignotum pro magnifico--as a sort of indefinite
and mysterious El Dorado. [31]

[Footnote 31: "Intactis opulentior thesauris Arabum." --Horat. Od. iii. 24. Pliny (Hist. Nat.
vi. 32) more soberly endeavours to prove the enormous accumulation of wealth which must have
taken place in Arabia, from the constant influx of the precious metals for the purchase of
their spices and other commodities, while they bought none of the productions of other countries
in return.]

These golden dreams speedily vanished as the country became more extensively known: and though
the Arab tribes of the desert between Syria and the Euphrates acknowledged a nominal subjection
to Rome, the intercourse of the Imperial City with Yemen, or Arabia Felix, was confined to
the trade which was carried on over the Red Sea from Egypt, and which became the channel through
which not only the spices of Arabia, but the rich products of India, and even the slaves [32]
and ivory of Eastern Africa, were supplied to the markets of Italy. At the present day, almost
the whole of the south coast of Arabia fronting the Indian Ocean, nearly from the head of the
Persian Gulf to the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, as well as the eastern coast of Africa, from
Cape Guardafui to the entrance of the Mozambique Channel a seaboard approaching 4000 miles
in length--is more or less subject to the Sultan of Muscat, [33] a prince whose power is almost
wholly maritime, and whose dominions nowhere extend more than thirty or forty miles inland:
while our own recent acquisition of Aden, a detached point with which our communication can
be maintained only by restraining the command of the sea, has for the first time given an European
power (excepting the Turks, whose possessions in Arabia always depended on Egypt) a locus standi
on the shores of Yemen.

[Footnote 32: This part of Africa is noticed by Arrian as famous for the excellent quality
of the slaves brought from [Greek: ta doulicha chreissota],and it still retains its pre-eminence.
The tribes in this quarter are far superior both in personal appearance and intellect to the
negroes of Guinea.]

[Footnote 33: We have seen it somewhere stated that the Sultan has also attempted, by means
of his navy, to exercise authority on the shores of Beloochistan; which would bring him into
contact with our own outposts at Soumeeani, &c., near the mouth of the Indus.]

The process by which we obtained this footing in Arabia was strictly in accordance with the
maxims of policy adopted by the then rulers of British India, and which they were at the same
time engaged in carrying out, on a far more extended scale, in Affghanistan. In both cases--perhaps
from a benevolent anxiety to accommodate our diplomacy to the primitive ideas of those with
whom we had to deal--

  "the good old rule
  Sufficeth them, the simple plan
  That they should take who have the power,
  And they should keep who can"--

was assumed as the basis of our proceedings: and though the brilliant success which for a time
attended our philanthropic exertions in the cause of good order and civilization beyond the
Indus, so completely threw into the shade the minor glories of Aden, that this latter achievement
attracted scarcely any public attention at the time of its occurrence, its merits are quite
sufficient to entitle it to a more detailed notice than it has hitherto received in the pages
of Maga. Nor can a more opportune juncture be found than the present, when the late events
in Cabul have apparently had a marvellous effect in opening the eyes of our statesmen, both
in India and England, to the moral and political delinquency of the system we have so long
pursued--of taking the previous owner's consent for granted, whenever it suited our views to
possess ourselves of a fortress, island, or tract of territory, belonging to any nation not
sufficiently civilized to have had representatives at the Congress of Vienna. Whether our repentance
is to be carried the length of universal restitution, remains to be seen; if so, it is to be
hoped that the circumstances of the capture of Aden will be duly borne in mind. But before
we proceed to detail the steps by which the British colours came to be hoisted at this remote
angle of Arabia, it will be well to give some account of the place itself and its previous
history; since we suspect that the majority of newspaper politicians, unless the intelligence
of its capture chanced to catch their eye in the columns of the Times, are to this day ignorant
that such a fortress is numbered among the possessions of the British crown.

The harbour of Aden, then, lies on the south coast of Yemen, as nearly as possible in 12º 45'
N. latitude, and 45º 10' E. longitude; somewhat more than 100 miles east of Cape Bab-el-Mandeb,
at the entrance of the Red Sea; and about 150 miles by sea, or 120 by land, from Mokha, [34]
the nearest port within the Straits. The town was built on the eastern side of a high rocky
peninsula, about four miles in length from E. to W., by two miles and a half N. and S.--which
was probably, at no very remote period, an island, but is now joined to the mainland by a long
low sandy isthmus, [35]  on each side of which, to the east and west, a harbour is formed between
the peninsula and the mainland. The East Bay, immediately opposite the town, though of comparatively
small extent, is protected by the rocky islet of Seerah, rising seaward to the height of from
400 to 600 feet, and affords excellent anchorage at all times, except during the north-east
monsoon: but the Western or Black Bay, completely landlocked and sheltered in great part of
its extent by the high ground of its peninsula, (which rises to an elevation of nearly 1800
feet,) runs up inland a distance of seven miles from the headland of Jibel-Hassan, (which protects
its mouth on the west,) to the junction of the isthmus with the main, and presents at all times
a secure and magnificent harbour, four miles wide at the entrance, and perfectly free from
rocks, shoals, and all impediments to ingress or egress. Such are the natural advantages of
Aden: and "whoever"--says Wellsted--"might have been the founder, the site was happily selected,
and well calculated by its imposing appearance not only to display the splendour of its edifices,
but also, uniting strength with ornament, to sustain the character which it subsequently bore,
as the port and bulwark of Arabia Felix."

[Footnote 35: This isthmus is said by Lieutenant Wellsted to be "about 200 yards in breadth:"
perhaps a misprint for 1200, as a writer in the United Service Journal, May 1840, calls it
1350 yards; and, according to the plan in the papers laid before Parliament, it would appear
to be rather more than half a mile at the narrowest part, where it is crossed by the Turkish wall.]

From the almost impregnable strength of its situation, and the excellence of its harbour, which
affords almost the only secure shelter for shipping near the junction of the Red Sea and the
Indian Ocean, Aden has been, both in ancient and modern times, a place of note and importance
as a central point for the commerce carried on with the East by way of Egypt. It was known
to the ancients as the Arabian emporium, and Abulfeda, in the fourteenth century, describes
it, in his Geography, as "a city on the sea-shore, within the district of Abiyan; with a safe
and capacious port, much frequented by ships from India and China, and by merchants and men
of wealth, not only from those countries, but from Abyssinia, the Hedjaz, &c.;" adding, however,
"that it is dry and burnt up by the sun, and so totally destitute of pasture and water, that
one of the gates is named Bab-el-Sakiyyin, or Gate of the Water-carriers, for fresh water must
be brought from a distance." In somewhat later times, when the Portuguese began to effect settlements
on the coasts of Guzerat and Malabar, and to attack the Mohammedan commerce in the Indian Seas,
the port of Aden (when, with the rest of Yemen, then paid a nominal allegiance to the Egyptian
monarchy) became the principal rendezvous for the armaments equipped by the Circassian Sultans
of Cairo in the Red Sea, in aid of their Moslem brethren, then oppressed by those whom the
Sheikh Zein-ed-deen emphatically denounces as "a race of unclean Frank interlopers--may the
curse of Allah rest upon them and all infidels!" It was, in consequence, more than once attacked
by the famous Alboquerque, (who, in 1513, lost 2000 men before it,) and his successor Lope
Soarez, but the Portuguese never succeeded in occupying it; and the Mamluke empire was overthrown,
in 1517, by the arms of the Ottoman Sultan, Selim I. The new masters of Egypt, however, speedily
adopted the policy of the rulers whom they had supplanted; and not contented with the limited
suzerainté over the Arab chiefs of Yemen, exercised by the Circassian monarchs, determined
on bringing that country under the direct control of the Porte, as a point d'appui for the
operations to be undertaken in the Indian Ocean. With this view, the eunuch, Soliman-Pasha,
who was sent in command of a formidible squadron from Suez, in 1538, to attempt the recapture
of Dui, [36] in Guzerat, from the Portuguese, received instructions to make himself in the
first place master of Aden, to the possession of which the Turks might reasonable lay claim
as a dependency of their newly-acquired realm of Egypt; the seizure, however, was effected
by means of base treachery. The prince, Sheikh-Amer, of the race of the Beni-Teher, was summoned
on board the admiral's galley, and accepted the invitation without suspicion; but he was instantly
placed in confinement, and shortly afterwards publicly hanged at the yard-arm; while the Pasha,
landing his troops, took possession of Aden in the name of Soliman the Magnificent. It was
not, however, till 1568, that the final reduction of Yemen was accomplished, when Aden and
other towns, which had fallen into the hands of an Arab chief named Moutaher, were recaptured
by a powerful army sent from Egypt; the whole province was formally divided into sandjaks or
districts, and the seat of the beglerbeg, or supreme pasha, fixed at Sana.

[Footnote 36: The warfare of the Ottomans in India is a curious episode in their history, which
has attracted but little notice from European writers. The Soliman-Pasha above mentioned (called
by the Indian historians Soliman-Khan Roomi, or the Turk, and by the Portuguese Solimanus Peloponnesiacus)
bore a distinguished part in those affairs; but this expedition against Diu was the last in
which he was engaged. The kingdom of Guzerat was, at that time, in great confusion after the
death of its king, Bahadur Shah, who had been treacherously killed in an affray with the Portuguese
in 1536; and it would appear probable that the Turks, if they had succeeded against Diu, meditated
taking possession of the country.]

The domination of the Turks in Yemen did not continue much more than sixty years after this
latter epoch; the constant revolts of the Arab tribes, and the feuds of the Turkish military
chiefs, whose distance from the seat of government placed them beyond the control of the Porte,
combined in rendering it an unprofitable possession. The Indian trade, moreover, was permanently
diverted to the route by the Cape; and any political schemes which the Porte might at one time
have entertained in regard to India, had been extinguished by the reunion, under the Mogul
sway, of the various shattered sovereignties of Hindostan. In 1633, [37] the Turkish troops
were finally withdrawn from the province, which then fell under the rule of the still existing
dynasty of the Imams of Sana, who claim descent from Mohammed. But the ruins even now remaining
of the fortifications and publick works constructed in Aden by the Ottomans during their tenure
of the place, are on a scale which not only proves how fully they were aware of the importance
of the position, but gives a high idea of the energy with which their resources were administered
during the palmy days of their power, when such vast labour and outlay were expended on the
security of an isolated stronghold at the furthest extremity of their empire. The defences
of the town, even in their present state, are the most striking evidence now existing of the
science and skill of the Turkish engineers in former times; and, when they were entire, Aden
must have been another Gibraltar. "The lines taken for the works," says a late observer, "evince
great judgment, a good flanking fire being every where obtained; no one place which could possibly
admit of being fortified has been omitted, and we could not do better than tread in the steps
of our predecessors. The profile is tremendous." A supply of water (of which the peninsula
had been wholly destitute) was secured, not only by constructing numerous tanks within the
walls, and by boring numerous wells through the solid rock to a depth of upwards of 200 feet,
[38] but by carrying an aqueduct into the town from a spring eight miles in the country, the
reservoir at the end of which was defended by a redoubt mounted with artillery. The outposts
were not less carefully strengthened than the body of the place--a rampart with bastions (called,
in the reports of the garrison, the Turkish Wall) was carried along some high ground on the
isthmus from sea to sea, to guard against an attack on the land side--the lofty rocky islet
of Seerah, immediately off the town, was covered with watchtowers and batteries--and several
of those enormous guns, with the effect of which the English became practically acquainted
at the passage of the Dardanelles in 1807, were mounted on the summit of the precipices, to
command the seaward approach; and, when Lieutenant Wellsted was at Aden, those huge pieces
of ordnance was lying neglected on the beach; and he asked Sultan Mahassan why he did not cut
them up for the sake of the metal, which is said to contain a considerable intermixture of
silver; "but he replied, with more feeling than could have been anticipated, that he was unwilling
to deprive Aden of the only remaining sign of its former greatness and strength." Several of
them have been sent to England since the capture of the place, measuring from fifteen to eighteen
and a half feet in length; they are covered with ornaments and inscriptions, stating them to
have been cast in the reign of "Soliman the son of Selim-Khan," (Soliman the Magnificent.)

[Footnote 37: Captain Haines, in the "Report upon Aden," appended to the Parliamentary papers
published on the subject, erroneously places this even in 1730, the year in or about which,
according to Niebuhr, the Sheikh of Aden made himself independent of Sana.]

[Footnote 38: "No part of the coast of Arabia is celebrated for the goodness of its water,
with the single exception of Aden. The wells there are 300 in number, cut mostly though the
rock, ... and the tanks were found in good order, coated inside and out with excellant chunam,
(stucco,) and merely requiring cleaning out to be again serviceable."]

At the time of its evacuation by the Turks, Aden is said, notwithstanding the decay of its
Indian trade, to have contained from 20,000 to 30,000 inhabitants; and the lofty minarets which,
a few years since, still towered above the ruins of the mosques to which they had formerly
been attached, as well as the extensive burying-grounds, in which the turbaned headstones peculiar
to the Turks are even yet conspicuous, bear testimony, not less than the extent and magnitude
of the ruinous fortifications, to the population and splendour of the town under the Ottomans.--(See
WELLSTED'S Arabia, vol. ii, chap. 19.) From the time, however, of its return into the hands
of its former owners, its decline was rapid. Niebuhr, who visited it in the latter part of
the last century, says, that it had but little trade, as its Sheikh [39] (who had long since
shaken off his dependence on the Iman of Sana) was not on good terms with his neighbors; and,
though Sir Home Popham concluded a commercial treaty with the uncle and predecessor of the
present Sultan Mahassan, no steps appear to have been taken in consequence of this arrangement.

[Footnote 39: The town would appear to have passed into the hands of another tribe since Niebuhr's
time, as he gives the Sheikh the surname of El-Foddeli (Futhali,) the present chief being of
the Abdalli tribe.]

In 1835, according to Wellsted, the inhabitants of this once flourishing emporium did not exceed
800, the only industrious class among whom were the Jews, who numbered from 250 to 300. The
remainder were "the descendants of Arabs, Sumaulis," (a tribe of the African coast,) "and the
offspring of slaves," who dwelt in wretched huts, or rather tents, on the ruins of the former
city. "Not more than twenty families are now engaged in mercantile pursuits, the rest gaining
a miserable existence either by supplying the Hadj boats with wood and water, or by fishing."
The chief, Sultan Mahassan, did not even reside in Aden, but in a town called Lahedj, about
eighteen miles distant, where he kept the treasures which his uncle, who was a brave and politic
ruler, had succeeded in amassing. He reputation for wealth, however, and the inadequacy of
his means for defending it, drew on him the hostility of the more warlike tribes in the vicinity;
and in 1836 Aden was sacked by the Futhalis, who not only carried off booty to the value of
30,000 dollars, (principally the property of the Banians and the Sumauli merchants in the port,)
but compelled the Sultan to agree to an annual payment of 360 dollars; while two other tribes,
the Yaffaees and the Houshibees, took the opportunity to exhort from him a tribute of half
that amount. There can be no doubt but that, if the Arabs had been left to themselves, this
state of things would have ended in all the contending parties being speedily swallowed up
in the dominions of Mohammed Ali, Pasha of Egypt; who, under pretence of re-asserting the ancient
rights of the Porte to the sovereignty of Yemen, had already occupied Mokha and Taaz, and was
waging war with the tribes in the neighbouring coffee country, whom he had exasperated by the
treacherous murder of Sheikh Hussein, one of their chiefs, who, having been inveigled by the
Egyptian commander into a personal conference, was shot dead, like the Mamlukes at Cairo, in
the tent of audience. Aden, in the natural course of things, would have been the next step;
but an unforeseen intervention deprived him of his prey.

Since the establishment of the overland communication with India through Egypt, and the steam
navigation of the Red Sea, the want had been sensibly felt of an intermediate station between
Suez and Bombay, which might serve both as a coal depot, and, in case of necessity, as a harbour
of shelter. The position of Aden, almost exactly halfway, would naturally have pointed it out
as the sought-for haven, even had its harbour been less admirably adapted than it is, from
its facility of entrance and depth of water close to the shore, for steamers to run straight
in, receive their fuel and water from the quay, and proceed on their voyage without loss of
time; while the roadstead of Mokha, [40] the only other station which could possibly be made
available for the purpose, is at all times open and insecure, and in certain points of the
wind, particularly when it blows from the south through the straits of Bab-el-Mandeb, communication
with the shore is absolutely impracticable. It was clear, therefore, that the proposed depot,
if carried into effect at all, must be fixed at Aden; and there can be little doubt that its
occupation was contemplated by the Indian government from the time of the visit of the surveying
ships to the Red Sea. A pretext was now all that was sought for, and this was not long wanted.
It was reported to the Bombay Administration in October 1836, by Captain Haines, (then in command
of the Palinurus at Makullah) that great insecurity to navigation prevailed on both the African
and Indian shores, at the entrance of the Red Sea; and one particular instance was adduced,
in which the crew of a Muscat vessel, wrecked on the coast near Aden, were subjected to such
inordinate extortion by Sultan Mahassan, that "the master, in anger or despair, burned his
vessel. The Bombay government could only give general instructions, that in case of any outrage
being offered to a vessel under British colours, redress should be peremptorily demanded. But
long before these instructions were issued, and, indeed, before the intelligence which elicited
them had reached Bombay, a case, such as they had supposed, had really occurred."--(Corresponderce
relating to Aden, printed in May 1839, by order of the House of Commons, No. 49, p. 38.)

[Footnote 40: "A vessel will lie" (at Mokha) "with a whole chain on end, topgallant masts struck,
and yards braced by, without being able to communicate with the shore; while at the same time
in Aden harbour she will lie within a few yards of the shore, in perfectly smooth water, with
the bight of her chain cable scarcely taught."--CAPTAIN HAINES'S Report.]

An Indian ship called the Derya-Dowlut, (Fortune of the Sea,) the property of a lady of the
family of the Nawab of Madras, but sailing under British colours, was wrecked on the coast
near Aden, February 20, 1837, when on her voyage from Calcutta to Jiddah, with a cargo valued
at two lacs of rupees, (L.20,000.) It would appear, from the depositions of the survivors,
that the loss of the ship was intentional on the part of the supercargo and nakhoda, (or sailing-master,)
the latter of whom, however, was drowned, with several of the crew, in attempting to get on
shore in the boat. The passengers--who had been denied help both by the officers who had deserted
them, and by the Arabs who crowded down to the beach--with difficulty reached the land, when
they were stripped, plundered, and ill-treated by the Bedoweens, but at last escaped without
any personal injury, and made their way in miserable plight to Aden, where they were relieved
and clothed by a Sheikh, the hereditary guardian of the tomb of Sheikh Idris, the guardian
saint of the town. The stranded ship, meanwhile, after being cleared of as much of her cargo
and stores as could be saved, was burned by direction of the supercargo, who shortly afterwards
took his departure to Jiddah, carrying with him one-third of the rescued property, and leaving
the remainder as a waif to the Sultan of Aden. After he was gone, the Sultan made an offer
to the agent [41] of the ship to restore the goods which had fallen to his share on a payment
of ten per cent for salvage; but this was declined, on the ground that after such a length
of time "the things on board must have been almost all lost; that he did not require them,
nor had he money to pay for them." The Sultan, however, still refused to allow him to leave
Aden till he had given him written acquittance of all claims on account of the ship; a document
was accordingly signed, as he says, under compulsion, to the effect that he made no claim against
the Sultan, but with a full reservation of his claim for redress from the supercargo, who had
wrecked the ship and embezzled the goods saved from her. The agent and several of the crew,
after undergoing great hardships, at last reached Mokha, and laid their complaint before the
commanders of the Company's cruisers Coote and Palinurus. The latter vessel, under the command
of Captain Haines, immediately repaired to Aden to demand redress for the injuries thus inflicted
on English subjects, while a formal report of the case was made to the Government at Bombay.
The Sultan at first attempted to deny that he possessed any of the goods in question, and afterwards
alleged that they had been given to him voluntarily by the supercargo; but finding all his
subterfuges unavailing, he at length gave up merchandize and stores to the amount of nearly
8000 dollars, besides a bond at a year's date for 4191 dollars more, in satisfaction for the
goods which had been previously sold or made away with, as well as for the insults offered
to the passengers.

[Footnote 41: This person, Syud Nooradeen, had been captain of the vessel at the outset of
the voyage; but had been deposed from the responsible command by an order purporting to come
from the merchant who had freighted the ship, but which is now said to have been forged by
the supercargo.]

Here, in ordinary cases, the matter might have rested; for though the conduct of this Arab
chief would certainly have been indefensible in a civilized country, the worst charge that
can be considered as fairly proved against him is that of being a receiver of stolen goods,
as the price of his connivance at the appropriation of the rest by the supercargo--since with
the wreck of the ship, whether premeditated or not, he had certainly nothing to do--and the
outrages committed by the wild Bedoweens on the beach can scarcely be laid to his charge. A
far more atrocious insult to the British flag in 1826, when a brig from the Mauritius had been
piratically seized at Berbera, (a port on the African coast, just outside the Straits of Bab-el-Mandeb,)
and part of her crew murdered, had been expiated by the submission of the offenders, and the
repayment of the value of the plunder by yearly instalments, (see WELLSTED'S Arabia, vol. ii.
chap. 18;)--whereas, in the present case, restitution, however reluctant, had been prompt and
complete. But so eager were the authorities in India to possess themselves of the place on
any terms, that even while the above-mentioned negotiation was pending, a minute was drawn
up (Sept. 28) by the Governor of Bombay, and transmitted to the Governor-general at Calcutta,
in which, after stating that "the establishment of a monthly communication by steam with the
Red Sea, and the formation of a flotilla of armed steamers, renders it absolutely necessary
that we should have a station of our own on the coast of Arabia, as we already have on the
Persian Gulf" --alluding to the seizure of the island of Karrack--and noticing "the insult
which has been offered to the British flag by the Sultan of Aden," requests permission "to
take possession of Cape Aden." [42] The Governor-general, however, in his reply, (Oct. 16,)
appears scarcely of opinion that so strong a measure is warranted by the provocation, and suggests
"that satisfaction should, in the first instance, be demanded of the Sultan. If it be granted,
some amicable arrangement may be made with him for the occupation of this port as a depot for
coals, and harbour for shelter. If it be refused, then further measures may be considered." [43]

[Footnote 42: Correspondence, No. 16.]

[Footnote 43: Ibid. No. 19.]

But notwithstanding the qualified terms of the Governor-general's reply, it appears to have
been regarded by the Bombay government as equivalent to a full permission [44] for the prosecution
of the object on which they had fixed their views: for by the despatch of Captain Haines from
Aden, (dated Jan. 20, 1838,) we find that no sooner had he "completed the first duty on which
he was sent," (the recovery of the cargo of the Derya-Dowlet,) than he addressed a letter (Jan.
11) to the Sultan, to the effect that "he was empowered by Government to form a treaty with
the Sultan for the purchase of Aden, with the land and points surrounding it," &c. &c.--that
he felt assured that the Sultan "would, in his wisdom, readily foresee the advantages which
would accrue to his country from having such an intimate connecting link with the British"--and
enclosing a rough draft of the terms on which it was proposed that the transfer should be effected.
The Sultan appears to have been considerably taken aback at this unexpected proposition, which,
it should be observed, was not put forward as part of the atonement required for the affair
of the Derya-Dowlut--as for this, (in the words of Captain Haines,) "satisfaction has been
given by you, and our friendship is as before." A lengthened correspondence ensued, at the
rate of a letter or two daily, till the end of January--in which the Sultan, with all the tortuous
tact of an Asiatic, endeavoured, without expressly pledging himself on the main point, to stipulate
in the first instance for assistance, in the shape of artillery and ammunition, against the
hostile tribes in the neighbourhood, and other advantages for himself and his family, particularly
for the retention of their jurisdiction over the Arab residents in Aden: and he at last quitted
Aden for Lahedj, without absolutely concluding any thing, but having authorized a merchant
of the former place, named Reshid-Ebn-Abdallah, to act as his agent.

[Footnote 44: "The Government of India did not, indeed, in express words authorize us to negotiate
with the Sultan for a cession to us of the post and harbour: but they desired us to obtain
the occupation of the port as a coal depot, and that of the harbour as a place of shelter.
These words far exceed the mere establishment of a coal depot under the auspices of the Sultan,
and in fact, could not in any practical sense, or to any beneficial purpose, be fulfilled,
except by our obtaining the occupation of that port and harbour as a matter not of sufferance
but of right."--Minute by the Governor of Bombay, No. 49.]

Still every thing appeared in a fair way for adjustment; the principal difficulty remaining
to be settled being the annual sum to be paid as an equivalent for the port-dues of Aden. The
Sultan's commissioner at first rated this source of revenue at the exorbitant sum of 50,000
dollars!--but it was at last agreed that it should be commuted for a yearly stipend of 8708,
a mode of payment preferred by the Sultan to the receipt of a gross sum, lest the rapacity
of his neighbours should be excited against him by so sudden an accession of wealth: while
the amount thus fixed was believed even to exceed the actual amount of the customs. The Sultan
meanwhile, though evading the formal execution of the deed of transfer, constantly wrote from
Lahedj that the English were at liberty to begin building in Aden as soon as they pleased--adding
on more than one occasion--"if the Turks or any other people should come and take away the
whole country by strength from me, the blame will not rest on my shoulders."

On the 27th, however, Sultan Hamed, the eldest son and heir-apparent of Sultan Mahassan, arrived
at Aden from Lahedj, accompanied by a synd or descendant of the prophet, named Hussein, who
was represented as having come as a witness to the transaction; and Captain Haines was invited
on shore to meet them. While he was preparing, however, to repair to the place of meeting,
he received a private intimation through the merchant already mentioned, Reshid-Ebn-Abdallih,
to the effect that the Arab chiefs had determined on seizing his person at the interview, in
order to possess themselves of the papers connected with the proposed transfer of Aden, (to
which Sultan Hamed had from the first been strongly opposed,) and in particular of the bond
for 4191 dollars which had been given in satisfaction for the balance of the goods in the Derya-Dowlut.
How far this imputed treachery was really meditated, there can be, of course, no means of precisely
ascertaining; and the minute of the governor of Bombay (Correspondence, No. 49,) seems to consider
it doubtful; [45] but Captain Haines acted as if fully convinced of the correctness of the
intelligence which he had received; and after reproaching Sultan Hamed with his intended perfidy,
returned first to Mokha, and afterwards (in February) to Bombay, carrying with him the letter
in which the old Sultan was alleged to have given his consent to the cession, but leaving the
recovered goods at Aden in charge of a Banyan--a tolerably strong proof, by the way, that the
Sultan, notwithstanding the bad faith laid to his charge, was not considered likely to appropriate
them afresh.

[Footnote 45: "I am not, however, disposed to treat the matter as one of much importance. We
have no knowledge of it but from report, and all concerned in it will solemnly deny the truth
of the information."]

The unsuccessful issue of this mission pretty clearly proved, that notwithstanding the dread
of the British power entertained by the Abdalli chiefs, their reluctance to part with their
town would not be easily overcome by peaceable means: while the Governor-general (then busily
engaged at Simla in forwarding the preparations for the ill-fated invasion of Affghanistan)
still declined, in despite of a renewed application from Bombay to give any special sanction
to ulterior measures--"a question on which"--in the words of the despatch--"her Majesty's Government
is rather called upon to pronounce judgment, than the supreme government of India." The authorities
at Bombay, however, were not to be thus diverted from the attainment of their favourite object;
and in a despatch of September 7, 1838, to the Secret Committee, (Corresp. No. 59,) they announce
that, "on reconsideration, they have resolved to adopt immediate measures for attempting to
obtain peaceable possession of Aden, without waiting for the previous instructions of the Governor-general
of India:" but "as the steamer Berenice will leave Bombay on the 8th inst.," (the next day,)
"we have not time to enter into a detail of the reasons which have induced us to come to the
above resolution." A notification similar to the above had been forwarded two days previously
to Lord Auckland at Simla; and a laconic reply was received (Oct. 4) from Sir William Macnaghten,
simply to the effect that "his lordship was glad to find that, at the present crisis of our
affairs, the governor (of Bombay) in council has resolved to resort to no other than peaceful
means for the attainment of the object in view."

In the latter part of October, accordingly, Captain Haines once more reached Aden in the Coote,
with a small party of Bombay sepoys on board as his escort; but the aspect of affairs was by
no means favourable. The old Sultan Mahassan, worn out with age and infirmities, had resigned
the management of affairs almost entirely to his fiery son Hamed, who, encouraged not only
by his success in baffling the former attempt, but by the smallness of the force which had
accompanied the British commissioner, [46] openly set him at defiance, declaring that he himself,
and not his father, was now the Sultan of the Bedoweens: that his father was but an imbecile
old man; and that any promise which might have been extorted from him could not be regarded
as of any avail: and, in short, that the place should not be given up upon any terms. In pursuance
of this denunciation, all supplies, even of wood and water, were refused to the ship; the Banyan
in charge of the Derya-Dowlut's cargo was prohibited from giving up the goods to the English;
and though the interchange of letters was kept up as briskly as before, the resolution of Sultan
Hamed was not to be shaken by this torrent of diplomacy: and he constantly adhered to his first
expressed position--"I wish much to be friends, and that amity was between us, but you must
not speak or write about the land of Aden again." The English agent, however, persisted in
speaking of the transfer as already legally concluded, and out of the power of Hamed to repudiate
or annul: while, in order to give greater stringency to his remonstrances, he gave orders for
the detention of the date-boats and other vessels which arrived off Aden, hoping to starve
the Sultan into submission, by thus at once stopping his provisions, and cutting off his receipt
of port dues. The blockade does not seem to have been very effectual: and an overture from
the Futhali chief to aid with his tribe in an attack on the Abdallis, was of course declined
by Captain Haines.

[Footnote 46: "Their first exclamation was, 'Are the English so poor that they can only afford
to send one vessel? and is she only come to talk? Why did they not send her before? Had they
sent their men and vessels, we would have given up; but until they do, they shall never have
the place.'"--CAPTAIN HAINES'S Despatch, Nov. 6, (No. 61.)]

The apparently interminable cross fire of protocols [47]  (in which both Captain Haines and
his employers appear to have luxuriated to a degree which would have gladdened the heart of
Lord Palmerston himself) was now, however, on the point of being brought to a close. On the
20th of November, one of the Coote's boats, while engaged in overhauling an Arab vessel near
the shore, was fired at by the Bedoweens on the beach, and hostilities were carried on during
several days, but with little damage on either side. In most cases, it would have been considered
that blockading a port, and intercepting its supplies of provisions constituted a sufficiently
legitimate ground of warfare to justify these reprisals: but Captain Haines, it appears, thought
otherwise, as he stigmatizes it as "a shameful and cowardly attack," and becomes urgent with
the Bombay government for a reinforcement which might enable him to assume offensive operations
with effect. Her Majesty's ships Volage, 28, and Cruiser, 16 gun-brig, which had been employed
in some operations about the mouth of the Indus, were accordingly ordered on this service,
and sailed from Bombay December 29, accompanied by two transports conveying about 800 troops--Europeans,
sepoys, and artillerymen--under the command-in-chief of Major Baillie, 24th Bombay native infantry.
The Abdalli chiefs, on the other hand, made an effort to induce the Sultan of the Futhalis,
(with whom they held a conference during the first days of 1839, at the tomb of Sheikh Othman
near Aden, on the occasion of the payment of the annual tribute above referred to,) to make
common cause with them against the intruders who were endeavouring to establish themselves
in the country; but the negotiation wholly failed, and the two parties separated on not very
amicable terms.

[Footnote 47: It is worthy of remark, that in a note of December 1st, (Corresp. No. 81,) from
the Governor of Bombay to the Sultan, the ill treatment of the passengers of the Derya-Dowlut
is again advanced as the ground of offence, as an atonement for which the cession of Aden is
indispensable; though for this, ample satisfaction had been admitted long since to have been
given.]

It appears that the determination of the Abdallis to hold out had been materially strengthened
by the intelligence which they received from India, (where many Arabs from this part of Yemen
and the neighbouring country of Hadramout are serving as mercenaries to the native princes,)
of the manifold distractions which beset the Anglo-Indian government, and the armaments in
course of equipment for Affghanistan, Scinde, the Persian Gulf, &c., and which confirmed them
in the belief that no more troops could be spared from Bombay for an attack on Aden. The stoppage
of provisions by sea, however, and the threatened hostilities of the Futhalis, caused severe
distress among the inhabitants of the town; and dissensions arose among the chiefs themselves,
as to the proportions in which (in the event of an amicable settlement) the annual payment
of 8700 dollars should be divided among them--it being determined that Sultan Mahassan should
not have it all. An attempt was now made by the synds to effect a reconciliation; but though
abundance of notes were once more interchanged, [48] and the old Sultan came down from Lahedj
to offer his mediation, all demands for the main object, the cession of the place, were rejected
or evaded. The negotiation consequently came to nothing, and hostilities were resumed with
more energy than before, the artillery of Aden being directed (as was reported) by an European
Turk; till, on the 16th of January, the flotilla from Bombay, under the command of Captain
Smith, R.N., anchored in Western Bay.

[Footnote 48: In this correspondence, the phrase of--"If you will land and enter the town,
I will be upon your head," is more than once addressed by Sultan Hamed to Captain Haines and
seems to have been understood as a menace; but we have been informed that it rather implies,
"I will be answerable for your safety--your head shall be in my charge."]

