"It is curious to what an extent opposite feelings and opinions will colour even material scenes
and objects to the eyes of different observers. Count Tasistro was also present at the capture
of the Tuileries; and gives us in his narrative a description of what he witnessed of the conduct
of the people after they had established themselves within the palace. Before presenting the
reader, however, with what he says upon this subject, we will transcribe part of his account
of his adventures in the earlier part of this day. 'The morning of the 29th,' he says, 'was
ushered in by the dismal ringing of bells, the groans of distant guns, and the savage shouts
of the populace; and I arose from a long train of dreams, which defied recollection as well
as interpretation. The rabble, headed by a few beardless boys just let loose from the Polytechnic
School and other seminaries, had been pleased to fix their head-quarters in our street. About
half-past eleven, however, those of them who were collected here having heard that the popular
forces who were fighting before the Louvre were nearly disabled by the cannon of the troops
occupying that palace, their Polytechnic chief called upon them to follow him to the assistance
of their brethren. Having entreated them to refrain from extravagant excesses, he rushed forward,
and soon arrived at the scene of action. Here I saw him turn round and address his followers
thus, 'Le cannon a déjà exterminé plusieurs de vos comarades; dans un instant il est à vous;
suivez moi, et apprenez comme il faut mourir;' (the cannon has already destroyed numbers of
your brethren; the next instant it will be directed against you: follow me, and learn how to
die.) Having uttered these words, he darted forward, just as the gun which was pointed at him
was discharged, and was blown into atoms. The people, however, following where he had led,
in the enthusiasm of the moment seized the gun, and turned it immediately against the Swiss
and the Guards that were stationed at the balconies of the Louvre. Other guns were afterwards
taken--and the consequence was that the soldiers at last retreated with great precipitation,
and concentrated their strength on the Place du Carrousel. The tricolour was already waving
over the Louvre. I observed a little, insignificant urchin climb up the walls, and plant it
during the contest.

"The last struggle made by the Guards for their royal master was to save the proud palace of
his ancestors; but, alas, the attempt was vain. A storm of balls was poured in upon them from
so many sides, that the little presence of mind they had preserved until now, deserted them
at this trying moment; and after a few ineffectual discharges, they retreated toward the Champs
Elysées; and the populace, unchecked by any power but their own will, rushed en masse into
the regal mansion.

"During this attack, short as it was, I happened to be in a situation far more critical than
that of the generality of the combatants on either side. On entering the Place du Carrousel
by the archway leading from the Quays, we found the confusion extreme--and, as the fire besides
grew every moment hotter and hotter, I felt the necessity of taking refuge somewhere, and in
my agitation ran forward and sheltered myself under the Triumphal Arch. Here I passed the short
interval during which the combat lasted in a confusion of all the senses, which extended minutes
to months, and gave to something less than half a quarter of an hour the importance of a century;
for I was all the time between the two fires. Fortunately, as I have said, the affair did not
last very long; and when the victorious rabble at last rushed into the Tuileries, I followed
the general movement, and soon after found myself in the throne hall, where I was joined by
my two missing friends."

