THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.

VOL. 17, No. 484.] SATURDAY, APRIL 9, 1831. [PRICE 2d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CORFE CASTLE.

The annexed Engravings are an interesting page in the early history of our country, and deserve
all the space we have appropriated to them. Their political notoriety, of much less interesting
character, we leave to be set down, said, sung, or set aside, elsewhere.

Corfe Castle nearly adjoins a town of the same name: both are situate in the Isle of Purbeck;
and their histories are so incorporated, that we shall not attempt their separation.

The town, according to the Beauties of England and Wales, vol. iv. p. 386, is nearly in the
centre of the Isle, at the foot of a range of hills, on a rising ground, declining to the east.
Its origin must undoubtedly be attributed to the Castle, which existed previous to the year
980; though the town itself does not appear to have attained any importance till after the
Conquest, as it was wholly unnoticed in the Domesday Book. The Manor and Castle seem always
to have descended together, and were often granted to princes of the blood, and the favourites
of our kings, yet as often reverted to the Crown by attainder or forfeiture. In the reign of
Richard the Second, they were held by Thomas Holland, Earl of Kent, jointly with Alicia, his
wife. In the reign of Henry the Fourth, they were granted to the Beauforts, Earls of Somerset;
but were taken from that family by Edward the Fourth, who bestowed them successively on Richard,
Duke of York, and George, Duke of Clarence; on the attainder of the latter, they reverted to
the Crown. Henry the Seventh granted them to his mother, the Countess of Richmond, for life.
In the 27th of his successor, Henry the Eighth, an act of parliament was passed, by which they
were given to Henry, Duke of Richmond, his natural son. After his death they reverted to the
Crown, and were, by Edward the Sixth, bestowed on the Duke of Somerset; whose zeal for the
Reformation was undoubtedly invigorated by the numerous grants of abbey lands made to him after
the suppression of the monasteries. On the duke's attainder, the demesne lands of the Castle
were leased for twenty-one years, on a fee-farm rent of 7l. 13s. 4d. In the 14th of Elizabeth,
the Castle and Manor, with the whole Isle of Purbeck, were granted to Sir Christopher Hatton,
whose heirs continued possessors till the commencement of the 17th century, when the Manor
and Castle were given by Sir William Hatton to his lady, Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas, Earl
of Exeter, and afterwards second wife to Lord Chief Justice Coke, who sold them, in the year
1635, to Sir John Bankes, Attorney-General to Charles the First, and afterwards Lord Chief
Justice of the King's Bench. His descendant, Henry Bankes, Esq. and representative for this
borough, is the present owner.

Though this is an ancient borough by prescription, it was not incorporated till the 18th of
Queen Elizabeth, when a charter was obtained by Sir Christopher Hatton, by which the inhabitants
were invested with the same liberties as those of the Cinque Ports; besides being favoured
with various other privileges. This charter was afterwards confirmed by James the First and
Charles the Second. The government of the town is vested in a mayor and eight barons--the barons
are those who have borne the office of mayor. The first return to, parliament was made in the
14th of Elizabeth. The right of election is possessed by all persons within the borough who
are "seized in fee, in possession, or reversion, of any messuage, or tenement, or corporal
hereditament; and in such as are tenants for life, or lives; and in want of such freehold,
in tenants for years, determinable on any life, or lives, paying scot and lot."[1] The number
of voters is between forty and fifty.

    [1] Hutchins's Dorset, vol. i, p. 279, 2nd edit.

Corfe Castle "stands a little north of the town, opposite to the church, on a very steep rocky
hill, mingled with hard rubble chalk stone, in the opening of those ranges of hills that inclose
the east part of the Isle. Its situation between the ends of those hills deprives it much of
its natural and artificial strength, being so commanded by them, that they overlook the tops
of the highest towers; yet its structure is so strong, the ascent of the hill on all sides
but the south so steep, and the walls so massy and thick, that it must have been one of the
most impregnable fortresses in the kingdom before the invention of artillery. It was of great
importance in respect to its command over the whole Isle: whence, our Saxon ancestors justly
styled it Corf Gate, as being the pass and avenue into the best part of the Isle."

The Castle is separated from the town by a strong bridge of four very high, narrow, semi-circular
arches, crossing a moat of considerable depth, but now dry. This bridge leads to the gate of
the first ward, which remains pretty entire, probably from the thickness of the walls, which,
from the outward to the inner facing, is full nine yards. The ruins of the entrance to the
second ward, and of the tower near it, are very remarkable. "The latter (which once adjoined
to the gate) was separated with a part of the arch at the time of the demolition of the Castle,
and is moved down the precipice, preserving its perpendicularity, and projecting almost five
feet below the corresponding part. Another of the towers on the same side is, on the contrary,
inclined so much, that a spectator will tremble when passing under it. The singular position
of these towers seems to have been occasioned through the foundations being undermined (for
blowing them up) in an incomplete manner. On the higher part of the hill stands the keep, or
citadel, which is at some distance from the centre of the fortress, and commands a view of
boundless extent, to the north and west. It has not hitherto suffered much diminution from
its original height; the fury of the winds being resisted less by the thickness of the walls
than by the strength of the cement. The upper windows have Saxon arches, but are apparently
of a later date than any other part of the building west of the keep, the stones of which being
placed herring-bone fashion prove it to be of the earliest style. The Chapel is of a very late
date, as appears from its obtuse Gothic arches; and I have really an idea that almost all the
changes of architecture, from the reign of Edgar to that of Henry the Seventh, may be traced
in this extensive and stupendous ruin.

"We could not view without horror the dungeons which remain in some of the towers: they recalled
to our memory the truly diabolical cruelty of King John, by whose order twenty-two prisoners,
confined in them were starved to death. Matthew of Paris, the historian, says, that many of
those unfortunate men were among the first of the Poitevin nobility. Another instance of John's
barbarous disposition was his treatment of Peter of Pontefract, a poor hermit, who was imprisoned
in Corfe Castle for prophesying the deposition of that prince. Though the prophecy was in some
measure fulfilled by the surrender which John made of his crown to the Pope's Legate, the year
following, yet the imprudent prophet was sentenced to be dragged through the streets of Wareham,
tied to horses' tails."[2]

    [2] Maton's Observations, vol. i. p. 12.

The exact period when this fortress was erected is unknown; though some circumstances render
it probable that it was built by King Edgar. That it did not exist previously to the year 887,
or 888, the time when the Nunnery at Shaftesbury was founded, is certain, from an inquisition
taken in the fifty-fourth of Henry the Third; wherein the jurors returned, "that the Abbess
and Nuns at Shaston (Shaftesbury) had without molestation, before the foundation of the Castle
at Corfe, all wrecks within their manor of Kingston, in the Isle of Purbeck." Mr. Aubrey, in
his Monumenta Britannica, observes, he was informed, "that mention was made of Corfe Castle
in the reign of King Alfred; yet it seems very improbable that this should be the fact; for
if it had actually existed in the time of that monarch, it would surely have been more publicly
known. The short reigns that succeeded would not allow time for so extensive an undertaking;
but Edgar enjoyed more peace than almost any of his predecessors, was superior in wealth and
power, and a great builder; he having founded, or repaired, no fewer than forty-seven monasteries."
To him, then, the origin of this castle may with the greatest probability be ascribed, as his
second wife, Elfrida, resided here at the commencement of her widowhood. During this residence
was committed the foul murder on King Edward, Edgar's son and successor, of which William of
Malmesbury relates the ensuing particulars.

"King Edward being hunting in a forest neare the sea, upon the south-east coast of the countie
of Dorset, and in the Isle of Purbecke, came neare unto a fair and stronge castell, seated
on a little river called Corfe, wherein his mother-in-law, Elfrida, with her sonne Ethelred,
then lived: the King, ever beareing a kinde affection to them, beeing soe neare, would needs
make knowne soe much by his personall visitation; which haveing resolved, and beeing either
of purpose or by chance, singled from his followers, hee rode to the Castell gate. The Queene,
who long had looked for an opportunitie, that, by makeing him awaye, shee might make waye for
her own sonne to the Crowne, was glad the occasion nowe offered itselfe; and therefore, with
a modest and humble behaviour, she bade him welcome, desireing to enjoye his presence that
night. But hee, haveing performed what hee purposed, and doubting his companie might find him
misseing, tolde her, that he now intended on horseback to drink to her and his brother in a
cuppe of wine, and soe leave her; which beeing presented unto him, the cuppe was no sooner
at his mouth, but a knife was at his back, which a servant, appointed by this treacherous woman,
stroke into him. The Kinge, finding himselfe hurt, sett spurs to his horse, thinking to recover
his companie; but the wounde beeing deepe, and fainting through the losse of much blood, he
felle from his horse, which dragged him by one foot hanging in the stirrop, untill he was left
dead at Corfe gate, Anno Dom. 979."

Thus far Malmesbury: Hutchins, in his History of Dorset, relates the circumstances of this
event in the following words:--

"The first mention of this Castle in our histories, is A.D. 978, as the Saxon Annals (though
some of our historians say 979 and 981), upon occasion of the barbarous murder of Edward, King
of the West Saxons, son of King Edgar, committed here by his mother-in-law, Elfrith, or Elfrida;
15 cal. April, in the middle of lent: The foulest deed, says the Saxon annalist, ever committed
by the Saxons since they landed in Britain."

In the reign of King Stephen, the Castle was seized by Baldwin de Rivers, Earl of Devon; and
though the King afterwards endeavoured to dispossess him, his efforts were ineffectual. King
John appears to have made it for some time his place of residence, as several writs, issued
by him in the fifteenth and sixteenth of his reign, are dated at Corfe. On the coronation of
Henry the Third, Peter de Mauley, the governor of the Castle, was summoned to attend the ceremony,
and to bring with him the regalia, "then in his custody in this Castle wherewith he had been
entrusted by John." The following year he delivered up the Castle to the King, with all the
military engines, ammunition, and jewels, committed to his charge.--Edward the Second was removed
hither from Kenelworth Castle, when a prisoner, by order of the Queen, and her favourite Mortimer.
Henry the Seventh repaired the Castle for the residence of his mother, the Countess of Richmond,
the parliament having granted 2,000l. for that purpose; yet it does not appear that it was
ever inhabited by this princess. It was again repaired by Sir Christopher Hatton, and most
probably by Sir John Bankes, whose lady became illustrious from the gallant manner in which
she defended it from the attacks of the parliament's forces, in the time of Charles the First.

In the year 1645 and 1646, the Castle was again besieged, or rather blockaded, by the parliament's
forces, who obtained possession through the treachery of Lieutenant-Colonel Pitman, an officer
of the garrison. When it was delivered up, the parliament ordered it to be demolished; and
the walls and towers were undermined, and thrown down, or blown up with gunpowder. "Thus this
ancient and magnificent fabric was reduced to a heap of ruins, and remains a lasting monument
of the dreadful effects of anarchy, and the rage of civil war. The ruins are large, and allowed
to be the noblest and grandest in the kingdom, considering the extent of the ground on which
they stand. The vast fragments of the King's Tower, the round towers leaning as if ready to
fall, the broken walls, and vast pieces of them tumbled down into the vale below, form such
a scene of havoc and desolation, as strikes every curious spectator with horror and concern."[3]

    [3] Hutchins's Dorset, vol. i. p. 286, 2nd edit.

The tragical murder of Edward by Elfrida, at Corfe Castle, and its memorable defence by Lady
Bankes, form two very interesting narratives in Hutchins's Dorset. Their details would occupy
too much of our present sheet, although they are worth reprinting for the gratification of
the general reader.

Corfe Castle, as we have already intimated, is proposed to be disfranchised by the Great Reform
Bill now before Parliament.

A year or two hence, probably, the political consequence of the place will be humbled as the
Castle itself!

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT PARLIAMENTS.

(To the Editor.)

In the Literary Magazine for 1792 I find the following list of places, which formerly sent
members to parliament:--

    Dunstable      Odiham             Langport
    Newberry       Overton            Montacute
    Ely            Bromyard           Stoke Curcy
    Wisbeach       Ledbury            Watchet
    Polurun        Ross               Were
    Egremont       Berkhemstead       Farnham
    Bradnesham     Stoteford          Kingston upon Thames
    Crediton       Greenwich          Bradford
    Exmouth        Tunbridge          Mere
    Tremington     Manchester         Highworth
    Liddeford      Melton Mowbray     Bromsgrove
    Modbury        Spalding           Dudley
    Southmolton    Waynfleet          Kidderminster
    Teignmouth     Bamberg            Pershore
    Torrington     Corbrigg           Doncaster
    Blandford      Burford            Jervale
    Winborn        Chipping Norton    Pickering
    Sherborn       Doddington         Ravenser
    Milton         Whitney            Tykhull
    Chelmsford     Oxbridge           Hallifax
    Bere Regis     Chard              Whitby
    Alresford      Dunster              and
    Alton          Glastonbury        Leeds
    Basingstoke
    Fareham

The three last named places were summoned during the Commonwealth--also Manchester;--when discontinued,
not known. Greenwich was summoned 4th and 5th of Philip and Mary; discontinued 6th of Philip
and Mary. The other places were principally summoned and discontinued during the reigns of
Edward the First, Second, and Third. Calais, in France, was summoned the 27th of Henry the
Eighth; discontinued 3rd of Philip and Mary. Hence it appears (says a writer on this subject)
that parliaments, or general councils, are coeval with the kingdom itself.

The first triennial parliament was in the year 1561; the first septennial one, in the year 1716.

Henry the Eighth increased the representatives in parliament 38; Edward the Sixth, 44; Mary,
25; Elizabeth, 62; and James the First, 27.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

ANCIENT BOROUGH OF LYDFORD.

(For the Mirror.)

Lydford is a poor, decayed village, consisting of ragged cottages, situated about seven miles
from the north of Tavistock, Devonshire. It was (says Britton) formerly a place of consequence;
and Prince states, that this ancient town and borough was the largest parish in the county,
or the kingdom, and that the whole forest of Dart belonged to it; to whose parson, or rector,
all the tithes thereof are due. It is said that this town, in its best strength, was able to
entertain Julius Cæsar, at his second arrival here in Britain; but, anno 997 it was grievously
spoilt by the inhuman Danes. Recovering again, it had, in the days of the Conqueror, 122 burgesses.
This is still the principal town of the Stannaries, wherein the court is held relating to those
causes. There is an ancient castle, in which the courts are held; and offenders against the
stannary laws were here confined, in a dreary and dismal dungeon, which gave rise to a proverb--"Lydford
laws punish a criminal first, and try him afterwards."

It appears from the Domesday Book, that Lydford and London were rated in the same manner, and
at the same time.

Lydford formerly sent members to parliament, but was excused from this burden, as it was then
considered, by pleading propter paupertatem.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

A WORD FOR THE READERS OF THE MIRROR.

Cadwallader Colden, in his Account of the Five Indian Nations of Canada, says--"They think
themselves by nature superior to the rest of mankind, and call themselves Ongue-honwe--that
is, men surpassing all others. The words expressing things lately come to their knowledge are
all compounds. They have no labials in their language, nor can they pronounce perfectly any
word wherein there is a labial; and when one endeavours to teach them to pronounce these words,
they tell one they think it ridiculous that they must shut their lips to speak. Their language
abounds with gutturals and strong aspirations: these make it very sonorous and bold; and their
speeches abound with metaphors after the manner of the eastern nations. Sometimes one word
among them includes an entire definition of the thing: for example--they call wine Oneharadeschoengtseragherie,
as to say, a liquor made of the juice of the grape."

N.B. It is hoped the above guttural word will not stick in the throat of the reader.

P.T.W.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

(For the Mirror.)

  Oh fly with me my lady love, my island home is free,
  And its flowers will bloom more sweetly still, when gazed upon by thee;
  Come, lady, come, the stars are bright--in all their radiant power,
  As if they gave their fairy light to guide thee to my bower.

  Oh fly with me, my little bark is waiting 'neath the steep,
  And the midnight breeze is fresh to waft thee o'er the stilly deep;
  Though tempests blow they should not raise thy fears, nor scathe thy form,
  For love would hover o'er thee still, a halo in the storm.

  I've found for thee, my lady love, the freshest flowing springs,
  Whose cooling waters ever burst in crystal sparklings;
  It is for thee my shaft will wing the wild bird in the air,
  Or strike the swift gazelle to deck our simple mountain fare.

  Oh 'tis thou canst bid my spirit throb with rapture's warmest sigh,
  As gushing winds will make a lute's strings sleeping melody;
  When other hopes have faded like the flow'rets of the spring,
  Thou'lt be to me a joyous wreath for ever blossoming.

       *       *       *       *       *

WRITING INK.

(To the Editor.)

I see in your admirable work one of the never ending disquisitions about making writing ink.
As I have used as much as most people in the threescore and ten years of my life, and my father
used perhaps three times as much, and we never were nor are troubled, I suppose we manage as
well as most folks--and as it is begged of me to a great amount, I infer that others like it.

I improve a little on my father's plan, by substituting a better vehicle, and the knowledge
of this improvement I obtained from a lady to whom a Princess Esterhazy communicated it.

It is so convenient, that whenever I go to Leamington, Brighton, Tunbridge, or such places
of temporary residence, I send to a chemist's my recipe, reduced to the quantity of half a
pint; and my ink is in use as soon as it comes, improving daily.

My home quantities are these:

  Three quarts of stale good beer, not porter.
  Three quarters of a pound fresh blue Aleppo galls, beaten.
  Four ounces of copperas.
  Four ounces of gum Arabic in powder.
  Two ounces of rock alum.

This is kept for a week in a wide-mouthed pitcher close to the fire, never ON it, frequently
stirred with a stick, and slightly covered with a large cork or tile.

My small quantity is--

  Half a pint of good beer.
  Two ounces of galls.
  Half an ounce of copperas.
  Ditto of gum Arabic.
  Quarter of an ounce of rock alum.

It will never mould or lose its substance or colour. The large quantity will bear half as much
beer for future use. If it thickens, thin it with beer.

I adopt the Italian ladies' method of keeping the roving of a bit of silk stocking in the glass,
which the pen moving, preserves the consistency of the liquid and keeps the fingers from it.

If you have seen better ink than this, I yield my pre-eminence.[4]

BLACKY.

    [4] Our correspondent's communication is in appearance "full,
        fair, and free," as all "representations" ought to be.--ED.

       *       *       *       *       *

SONG.

(For the Mirror.)

  O pledge me not in sparkling wine,
    In cups with roses bound;
  O hail me at no festive shrine,
    In mirth and music's sound.
      Or if you pledge me, let it be
        When none are by to hear,
      And in the wine you drink to me,
        For me let fall a tear.

  Forbear to breathe in pleasure's hall,
    A name you should forget;
  Lest echo's faintest whisper fall
    On her who loves thee yet.
      Or if you name me, let it be
        When none are by to hear;
      And as my name is sigh'd by thee,
        For me let fall a tear.

  O think not when the harp shall sound
    The notes we lov'd again,
  And gentle voices breathe around,
    I mingle in the strain.
      Oh! only think you hear me when
        The night breeze whispers near;
      In hours of thought, and quiet, then
        For me let fall a tear.

  Seek me not in the mazy dance,
    Nor let your fancy trace
  Resemblance in a timid glance;
    Or distant form and face.
      But if you seek me, be it when
        No other forms are near;
      And while in thought we meet again,
        For me let fall a tear.

L.M.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

MANNERS & CUSTOMS OF ALL NATIONS.

       *       *       *       *       *

BULL-BAITING IN SUFFOLK.

(For the Mirror.)

Lavenham Market-place was once considered as one of the most celebrated "theatres for cruel
scenes" in the county of Suffolk,

  "Where bulls and dogs in useless contest fought,
  And sons of reason satisfaction sought
  From sights would sicken Feeling's gentle heart,
  Where want of courage barb'd Oppression's dart."[5]

    [5] Ribbans's "Effusions."

On every anniversary of the Popish powder-plot, it was customary here to bait bulls; and it
was then pretty generally understood that no butcher could legally slaughter a bull without
first baiting him; or in default of doing so, he must burn candles in his shop so long as a
bit of the bull-beef remained there for sale.

Whilst a bull, with false horns, has been defending himself at the stake, or ring, in this
market-place, dogs have been seen in the streets quarrelling for a part of the tongue of the
living bull! and daughters of reason have joined their treble screams to the yell of triumph
when the bull either tossed or worried a dog, or a dog had pinned the bull, by fastening on
his nose so desperately firm as even to suffer his limbs to be broken--nay, cut off--before
he would let go his hold.

A man (of course of the bull-dog breed), not many years since, engaged to attack a bull with
his teeth, and so far succeeded as to deprive the animal of power to hurt him.

In Bury, too, so late as the year 1801, a mob of "Christian savages were indulging in the inhuman
amusement of baiting and branding a bull. The poor animal, who had been privately baited on
the same day, burst from his tethers in a state of madness. He was again entangled, and, monstrous
to relate, his hoofs were cut off, and he defended himself on his mangled, bleeding stumps!"

The public exhibition of this most cowardly pastime is now prohibited; and the bull-ring was
taken up, by order of Mr. Buck, out of this market-place about eight years back.

The name of the Rev. James Buck, rector of Lavenham, deserves to stand recorded as one of the
most indefatigable magistrates who, uniting authority with compassion, exerted himself to the
last in the cause of humanity.

The common arguments which have ever been adduced to show that we have animals bred by nature
for various sports, and that the poor man has as great a right to his share of amusement as
the rich man--that there are in all countries animals originally formed and carefully trained
to the exercise of sports--must be admitted; but the Creator of Brutes and the Judge of Man
never can behold cruelty to animals without hearing their cry; and although they are all evidently
sent for the wise purpose of affording food, and of contributing to the comfort and improvement
of the condition of man, they never were created to be abused, lacerated, mangled, and whilst
living, cut to pieces and baited by brutes of superior race, depraved at heart and debased
by custom.

If two men choose to stand up and fib each other about (saying nothing of the practice), why
let them do it; or if two dogs worry each other to death for a bone, or two cocks meet and
contend for the sovereignty of a dunghill. In these last two cases the appearance of cruelty
is out of the question, and how much soever we may be inclined to pity, we are entirely divested
of the ability to blame. Dogs naturally quarrel; and any attempt to reform and reconcile two
snarling puppies, would be as inconsistent as it would be foolish to abuse the nettle for stinging
our flesh, or to upbraid the poppy for its disagreeable and choking odour.

The true criterion of perfection to civilization is in proportion to the kind feeling entertained,
and the humanity practised, towards those animals (in particular) which are subject to the
immediate control of man.

Lavenham.

F. RIBBANS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE SELECTOR, AND LITERARY NOTICES OF NEW WORKS.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE JEWS BEFORE THEIR DISPERSION.

In our second reading of Levi and Sarah, or the Jewish Lovers, we have been struck with the
following narrative of the pristine celebrity of this favoured people:--

