Yet the moral of the book is not without value, and its historic interest is considerable,
taken in connection with the other memoirs of the same epoch. The style is rather piquant,
and the translation good, though a little stiff. The writer is an Orleanist, and thinks the
Revolution of 1848 a mere whim of the populace, favored by a "vertigo" on the part of Louis
Philippe. It was "an incomprehensible contingency,--sovereign power giving way to a revolt,
without the test of a combat."

The book was first published under the Republic, to which the author professes due loyalty.
He suggests, however, that, as no one is required by duty to fall in love with a very ugly
woman who may have been imposed on him in marriage, so he is not yet very much smitten with
the Republic. But he is ready to respect the dame, if she proves to deserve it, as a legitimate
connection.

     Cape Cod. By HENRY D. THOREAU. Boston: Ticknor and Fields.

Cape Cod is photographed at last, for Thoreau has been there. Day by day, with his stout pedestrian
shoes, he plodded along that level beach,--the eternal ocean on one side, and human existence
reduced to its simplest elements on the other,--and he pitilessly weighing each. His mental
processes never impress one with opulence and luxuriance, but rather with a certain sublime
tenacity, which extracts nutriment from the most barren soil. He is therefore admirably matched
against Cape Cod; and though his books on softer aspects of Nature may have a mellower charm,
there is none in which the very absence of mellowness can so well pass for an added merit.

No doubt there are passages which err upon the side of bareness. Cape Cod itself certainly
errs that way, and so often does our author; and when they are combined, the result of desiccation
is sometimes astounding. But so much the truer the picture. If Vedder's "Lair of the Sea-Serpent"
had the rank verdure of the "Heart of the Andes," the kraken would still be as unimpressive
on canvas as in the newspapers. No one ever dared to exhibit Cape Cod "long, and lank, and
brown" enough before, and hence the value of the book. For those who insist on chlorophylle,
is there not "Azarian"? If the dear public will tolerate neither the presence of color in a
picture, nor its absence, it is hard to suit.

Yet it is worth remembering, that Thoreau's one perfect poem,--and one of the most perfect
in American literature,--"My life is like a stroll upon the beach," must have been suggested
by Cape Cod or some kindred locality. And it is not the savage grandeur of the sea alone, but
its delicate loveliness and its ever-budding life, which will be found recorded forever in
some of these wondrous pages, intermixed with the statistics of fish-flakes and the annals
of old men's diseases.

But in his stern realism, the author employs what he himself calls "Panurgic" plainness of
speech, and deals with the horrors of the sea-shore as composedly as with its pearls. His descriptions
of the memorials of shipwrecks, for instance, would be simply repulsive, but that his very
dryness has a sort of disinfectant quality, like the air of California, where things the most
loathsome may lie around us without making the air impure.

