The original document contained a number of errors in spelling and
      punctuation, which the transcriber preserved. At the end of the
      book is a list of errata which have not been corrected in this
      transcription. The only revision has been to convert the long-s
      characters with an 's', where they occur.

AN ENQUIRY INTO THE TRUTH OF THE TRADITION, CONCERNING THE DISCOVERY OF AMERICA, BY PRINCE
MADOG AB OWEN GWYNEDD, ABOUT THE YEAR, 1170.

by

JOHN WILLIAMS, L. L. D.

LONDON

M. DCC XCI

Hic, ubi nunc Roma est orbis caput, arbor et herbæ, Et paucæ pecudes, et casa rara fuit.

  Ov. Fast. L. 5. v. 93.

PREFACE

The following Observations are with Diffidence given to the Public; because the Subject is
rather obscure and uncertain. However, it is presumed that there are stronger Reasons for admitting
the Truth of Prince Madog's landing on the American Shores, than for the contrary. There are
many Relations in History, which have obtained Credit, that appear to me, not so well supported
as this Tradition.

We find allusions to it in the Writings of Ancient British Bards, who were dead before Columbus
sailed on his first Western Voyage. We are told, also, by credible Authors, that some plain
traces of Christianity, such as it was in the Days of Madog, were found in America, when the
Spaniards landed there. No Nation, in Europe, hath ever pretended to have visited America before
Behaim, Columbus, or Americus Vespucius, but the Welsh: it is therefore almost, if not quite
certain, that if its religious Notions and Customs were derived from Europe, it must have been
from the Ancient Britons. The Words in common use on different parts of the Continent, which
are very near, or undeniably Welsh, in both sound and sense, could not happen by chance, and
they could not be derived from any Europeans but from the Ancient Britons.

The inhabitants of some parts, it is said had a Book among them, upon which they set a great
Value, though they could not read it. This Book seems to have been a Welsh Bible, because it
was found in the Hands of a people who spoke Welsh; and because Mr. Jones could read and understand
it.

This Circumstance is of great Weight in the debate. For whether this Book was a Welsh Bible
or not, it actually proves that the Natives of that Country where the Book was found, had been
on that Continent many Ages, and could not be the descendants of a Colony planted there after
the discovery of Columbus in 1492. No written Language or Alphabetical Characters can be totally
forgotten by any people, within the space of 160, or 170 Years, which was the period that intervened
between the discovery of Columbus and Mr. Jones's visit.

It will be shewn in this short Treatise that there is not the least reason to think that the
whole was a Story invented to be the ground of a claim to a first Discovery. For before Columbus
returned from his first Western Voyage, no Nation in Europe had any idea of a Western Continent
except the Ancient Britons; among whom there seems to have been some Tradition that Prince
Madog, many Years before the 15th Century, had landed on some western Shores; but that these
were the American Shores, was a Discovery of later Ages.

Mr. Owen Jones, and Mr. William Owen, the Editors of David ab Gwilym's Poems, lately published,
to whom I am obliged for several Observations, have favored me with the following account of
a very late date.

In a letter, dated Octob. 1st, 1788, a Friend of theirs, a Native of Wales, who lives on the
Banks of the Ohio, informed them that he had been several times among Indians who spoke Welsh;
and that there was at the time when he wrote, a person in Virginia from the back settlements
who had been among a Tribe of Welsh Indians, whose situation he laid down on the River Misouris,
or Misouri, about 400 Miles above its junction with the Mississipi; that is between 40 and
50 degrees North Latitude; This Tribe seems to have been that which Captain Stewart saw, and
which is also mentioned in Mr. Beatty's Journal.

This Tribe seems to have little or no connection with other Indians: the latter are of a deep
Copper Colour, but the former, in general have fair Complexions.

That Prince Madog's Adventures, are certainly, true, I do not positively say; but from various
circumstances, hereafter considered, they appear so to me. However, should the Evidence produced
be thought insufficient to prove them real Facts it will prove that some Welsh people had landed
on the American Shores long before Columbus; and as we have no account of any other, it may
naturally be concluded, that they are descended from Prince Madog's Colony.

The Traditions concerning this Welsh Prince have engaged my attention, more or less, above
30 Years; and these Sheets were intended for the Press, had the late misunderstanding with
Spain never happened.

This Subject, as far as I can learn hath never been particularly examined, though mentioned
by various Writers. I have, therefore, ventured to declare my Opinion, and the reasons by which
it is supported, in hopes that some more able and judicious Antiquary will take it into Consideration.

To preserve Connection and perspicuity, the Reader will find some Facts and Remarks more than
once mentioned. I hope that it will be excused, as it appeared to me unavoidable.

I beg the Gentlemen to whom I am obliged for much Information to accept my grateful Acknowledgments.

Every Author cited in this Treatise hath been consulted, excepting Francis Lopez de Gomara,
Postell. Comp. Cosmo. and the 7th and 8th Decades of Peter Martyr, to which I could have no access.

  Sydenham,--Feb. 1st, 1791.

AN ENQUIRY, &c.

That the original Inhabitants of America were descended from our common Parents, Adam and Eve,
will admit of no doubt. In Form, Figure, and in the powers of the mind, we are the same. The
only difference between the Europeans and Americans was, that the former were in a civilized
state, the other uncivilized. By whom, how, and when that vast Continent was first peopled,
are questions which have employed the thoughts and pens of learned Men for several Centuries.
Hornius in his De Originibus Americanis, and Dr. William Robertson in his History of America,
with great probability, were of opinion that they were descended from the Jews, Canaanites,
Phoenicians, Carthaginians, Greeks, and Scythians; and that the Chinese, Swedes, Norwegians,
the Welsh and the Spaniards, sent Colonies thither in later ages.[a]

[Footnote a: De Originibus Americanis, Lib. I. Cap. 2. Dr. Robertson's History of America,
Vol. II. Page 28, Edit. 1788.]

That America was originally peopled by some of the above Nations seems most probable from the
resemblance between the Inhabitants and Animals of the northern Regions of America, and the
Inhabitants and Animals of the northern Regions of Europe and Asia. If any are desirous of
knowing the sentiments of different Writers on this Subject, let them consult the above Authors.
In the discusion of this point I am not concerned; my only design being to examine which of
the European nations, since the eleventh Century discovered the Western Continent.

When we reflect upon the populousness of America when discovered, as supposed, in the 12th
Century, we must be convinced that it was known in very early times, many Centuries before
any European landed on the Coasts.

The Spaniards claim the Honor of this Discovery.

Christopher Columbus, a native of Genoa in Italy, by the encouragement and assistance of Ferdinand
and Isabella, King and Queen of Spain, discovered the West Indian Islands, and some parts of
the Continent of South America, about the year 1492, or 1493 of Christ; and other parts of
it were discovered by Americus Vespucci (Vespucius) about the year 1497, from whom the whole
took its name; but neither of them seems to have been the first European that visited America.
Dr. Gregory Sharp says that Behaim or Martin of Bohemia was there about the year 1460.[b]

[Footnote b: Translation of Baron Holbergh's Introduction to Universal History, p. 211. note.
Edit. 1758. De Murr says that Behem or Behaim, was a native of Nuremberg in Germany, acquainted
with Columbus, but had no right to dispute with him the discovery of America.

Analytical Review Vol. II. p. 602.]

The Spaniards pretend not to any discovery prior to those of Columbus, Americus, and Behaim.

That the Spaniards have no right to that Continent, as first Discoverers, appears to me, very
evident; for when they landed there, they found among the Inhabitants some traces of European
languages and manners.

From the Testimonies of Travellers and Historians, there are strong reasons to believe that
the Ancient Britons landed on that Continent nearly 300 years before Behaim or Columbus, so
that if a first discovery gives a right of possession, the whole Continent belongs to the Ancient
Britons. But, in truth, conquest is only oppression and Inhumanity. If different nations could
be brought to live together in peace, and honestly and amicably carry on Trade, it would be
highly advantageous to the World; but conquest, such as that of Mexico by Cortez, and of Perun
and Chili by Pizarro and Almagro, in nature and in reason, can give no just right to territory.
In such cases, conquest is only another name for Injustice, Barbarity, and Murder.

We have, as far as I can now remember, but one instance, upon record, of an amicable coalition
of interests between public bodies; I mean that of William Penn, the excellent and justly celebrated
Quaker, with the Inhabitants of the Country, now, after his Name called Pensylvania, a little
before the Revolution in 1668. The peace of that Colony has been less disturbed than that of
any other. The Indians have been very quiet: He deals fairly and openly with them, and his
descendants, as far as I can learn, have always done the same. The consequence is that though
he died in the Fleet Prison, his posterity now enjoy a Princely Fortune.[c]

[Footnote c: European settlements in America. Vol. II. p. 195. &c. Edit. 1758. I know not how
much they are affected by the late revolution in America.]

But to enter upon my Subject.

I known not how it comes to pass, but of late years most of our Historians seem to be over
fastidious. They object to, and call in question many facts which have been credited for Centuries,
and which upon the whole are supported by very respectable authorities. In reading History,
I make in a strict rule to give every Writer a fair and candid perusal. While I reject old
Women's Fables, monkish Tales, Absurdities, and pretended Miracles, I am disposed to receive
as Truth, that which seems natural, reasonable, and well supported by evidence. Agreeably to
this rule, I shall now consider the accounts we have of the Discovery of America by the Ancient
Britons.

I cannot, in Giraldus, find any thing upon the subject. He flourished about the time when this
supposed discovery was made; that is, during the reigns of Henry the IId. Richard the 1st.
and John Kings of England.[d]

[Footnote d: Giraldus Cambrensis, or Silvester Giraldus, was of a Noble Flemish Family, born
near Tenby in Pembrokshire, South Wales, 1145. He was Secretary to King Henry, and Tudor to
King John. He was Arch Deacon of St. David's and of Brecon, which seem to have been his highest
ecclesiastical preferments. He is represented to have been a busy, meddling and troublesome
man, which was the reason, as it is supposed, why he never rose to higher Dignities in the
Church. He was buried at St. David's about 70 years of age.

Jones's Musical Relicks of the Welsh Bards, and the Life of Giraldus drawn up by Leland and
Bale from his writings, which is prefixed to his Itinerary.

Purchas's Pilgrimage p. 779. Edit. 1626.]

When Prince Madog, the supposed first European discoverer of America sailed, Giraldus was about
25 years of age, and probably abroad for education. He therefore might have no intelligence
of transactions which took place in a distant, and, to him, little known part of the World;
for it does not appear that he ever was in North Wales, until he accompained Arch-Bishop Baldwin
thither in the year 1188, when he went to convert the Britons to the Romish Faith, and to persuade
them to engage in a Crusade.--Besides, being a Fleming by descent, and so nearly connected
with the English Court, he could have very little correspondence with the Britons, who were
far from being easy under the Dominion of the usurping Saxons, Normans, and especially the
Flemings, who had lately invaded and possessed a part of their Country. It was re-printed in
1697, under the inspection of W. Wynne, A. M. Fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. There was another
edition lately published.

This narrative bears the strongest Semblance of Truth, for it is plain, natural, and simple.
It says, that on the death of Owen Gwynedd, Prince of North Wales, about the year 1169, several
of his Children contended for his Dominions; that Madog, one of his Sons, preceiving his Native
Country engaged, or on the eve of being engaged, in a Civil War, thought it best to try his
Fortune in some foreign Climes. Leaving North Wales in a very unsettled state, he sailed with
a few Ships which he had fitted up and mann'd for that purpose to the westward, leaving Ireland
to the north. He came at length to an unknown Country where most things appeared to him new
and uncustomary, and the manners of the Natives far different from what he had seen in Europe.
Madog having viewed the fertility and pleasantness of the Country, left the most part of those
he had taken with him behind, (Sir Thomas Herbert says that the number he left behind was 120)
and returned to north Wales. Upon his arrival, he described to his Friends what a fair and
extensive land he had met with, void of any Inhabitants, whilst they employed themselves, and
all their skill to supplant one another, for only a ragged portion of Rocks and Mountains.
Acordingly, having prevailed with considerable Numbers to accompany him to that Country, he
sailed back with Ten Ships and bid adieu to his Native Land.[e]

[Footnote e: When our Author says that the Country was void of Inhabitants, he can mean only
that it was thinly peopled, for he had just said that Madog saw most things there, new and
uncustomary, very different from what he had seen in Europe: Of consequence the Country was
inhabited before he landed there. (See Hornius's Observations below). Let it be observed that
the account above given of Madog's Emigration appears to have been written, by Humphry Llwyd,
the Translator of Caradoc, for he is said to have continued the History to the Death of Prince
Llewelyn in 1270.

See the Preface to Caradoc's History.]

It is very certain that this account of Madog's Emigration was not written by Caradoc, for
his History comes no lower than the year 1157; and he seems to have died about the time when
this Event took place. However, it is said by Humphry Llwyd, the Translator of Caradoc into
English, that this part of the History was compiled from Collections made from time to time,
and kept in the Abbies of Conway in Carnarvonshire North Wales, and Strat Flur. (Strata Florida,
Cardiganshire, South Wales.) The most remarkable occurencies in the Principality, being registered
in these Abbies, were generally compared together every third year, when the Beirdd or Bards,
belonging to these two Houses, went their ordinary Visitations, which were called Clera. This
custom prevailed till the year 1270, a little before the death of Llewelyn the last Prince
of Wales, and who was killed near Built in Brecknockshire.

The best copy of these registers was taken by Guttun Owen, a Bard, in the Reign of Edward the
IVth. King of England, about the year 1480; before the first Voyage of Columbus; but that the
continuation, though not Caradoc's, is a true History, we have no just reason to question.

Cynfrig ab Gronow, about the same time with Guttun Owen, mentioned this Event. Those Bards
lived between two and three Hundred Years after Madog's Emigration; and before them it is alluded
to by Sir Meredyth ab Rhy's about the year 1477. Humphry Llwyd the Translator of Caradoc flourished
in the reign of Henry the VIIIth, King of England, about 50 or 60 years after Guttun Owen,[f]
and Dr. Powel published Llwyd's Translation, in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, about 40 Years
after the death of Humphry Llwyd, whose death prevented its earlier publication.

[Footnote f: Guttun Owen was a Person of Note in the Reign of Henry the VIIth. of England;
for he was the second Person named in a Commission issued by that Prince to search the pedigree
of Owen Tudor, that King's Grandfather. Caradoc's History. p. 325. and Appendix, p. 334. Edit.
1697. This Commission, probably was issued about the Year 1500, when Henry sent his Son Arthur
into Wales.]

There can be little doubt, but that the writings of Guttun Owen, Cynfrig ab Gronow, and of
Sir Meredyth ab Rhys, were extant in the Days of Llwyd and Powel, and known to many persons
who lived in the principality, as Powel did.

The next account I have met with of this Event is in Hakluyt.

"After the death of Owen Gwynedd, his Sonnes fell at debate who should inherit after him, for
the eldest Sonne born in Matrimony, Edward, or Jorwerth Drwidion (Drwyndwn) was counted unmeet
to govern because of the maime upon his Face, and Howel that took upon him the Rule, was a
bare Sonne, begotten upon an Irish Woman. Therefore David, another Sonne, gathered all the
power he could, and came against Howel, and fighting with him, slew him, and afterwards enjoyed
quietly the whole Land of North Wales until his Brother Jorwerth's Sonne came to Age.

"Madoc, another of Owen Gwyneth's Sonnes, left the land in contentions betwixt his Brethren,
and prepared certain Ships with Men and munition and fought adventures by Seas, sailing West
and leaving the coast of Ireland so farre North, that he came to a Land unknown, where he saw
many strange things.

"This Land must needs be some parts of the Countrey of which the Spanyards affirm themselves
to be the first Finders since Hauno's[g] Time: whereupon it is manifest that that Countrey
was by Britons discovered long before Columbus led any Spanyards thither.

[Footnote g: The Carthaginian Admiral, supposed to have flourished about 450 years before Christ.]

"Of the Voyage and return of this Madoc, there be many fables framed, as the common people
do use in distance of place and length of time, rather to augment than to diminish, but sure
it is, there he was. Whereby it may be gathered that Christians had been there before the coming
of the Spanyards; but because this people were not many, they followed the manner of the Land
which they came to, and the Language they found there.

"This Madoc arriving in that Western Countery, unto the which he came in the year 1170, left
most of his people there, and returning back for more of his own Nation, Acquaintance and Friends
to inhabit that fair and large Countery, went thither again with Ten Sailes, as I find noted
by Guttun Owen.[h] I am of opinion that the Land whereunto he came was some part of the West
Indies.

[Footnote h: Hakluyt, says, that he derived this Account from Guttun Owen: his writings therefore
must have been extant in the Days of Hakluyt. He does not refer to Humphry Llwyd or Dr. Powel
as his authorities. See Pagitt's Christianographie. p. 86. Ed. 2. What he says is taken from
Hakluyt. See also Francis Lopez de Gomara. Lib. II. Chap. 16. and Postel's camp. Cosmo, p.
70. Gentleman's Magazine, December, 1789.

Madog's Voyage is mentioned in the Turkish Spy, Vol. VIII. p. 158. Edit.

  "Madog wyf, mwyedie Wedd
  Jawn Genau, Owen Gwynedd,
  Ni fynnwn Dir', f y awydd oedd,
  Nid Da mawr ond y Moroedd."

These Lines were communicated to our Author he says by the celebrated William Camden.

A Gentleman who is possessed of Sir Meredyth ab Rhys's, "Cywydd i ddiolch am Rwyd bysgota;
i lfan ab Tudor;" "An Ode to thank Evan ab Tudor, for a Fishing Net;" obligingly favored me
with the following copy of the above Lines.

  Mewu Awr dda, Minnau ar Ddwr
  o fodd hael a fydd Heliwr.
  Madog wych, mwyedig Wedd
  Jawn Genau, Owen Gwynedd
  Ni fynnai Dir', f' enaid oedd,
  Na Da mawr ond y Moroedd.

  Literally; "On a happy Hour, I on the water
  Of Mannaers mild, the Huntsman will be
  Madog bold of pleasing Countenance,
  Of the true Lineage of Owen Gwyned.
  He covettd not Land, his Ambition was,
  Not great Wealth, but the Seas,"

As the Poet seems to be returning thanks to a Friend for a Favour, I am of opinion that he
only alludes to Madog's Success, and expressing his Hope that he should be as successful in
his pursuits. Therefore in the third Line, I would read, not, wyf, "I am," but wych, "bold,"
"Courageous;" &c. and in the fifth Line, I would read not f' enaid oedd, "my Soul or Ambition
was," but ei enaid oedd, "His Soul, or Ambition was."

A Gentleman, who, upon the whole, approved of these Alterations, observed that in the fifth
Line, alteration was not necessary; for f'naid oedd, literally, "he was my Soul," was an apostrophe;
in other Words, "I revere his Memory."

The four last of the above Lines were sent to me above 30 Years ago, by my late learned and
excellent Friend, Dr. John Collet, of Newbury, Berks, which I endeavoured to translate as above.

They were thus rendered into Latin by the late Dr. Samuel Johnson.

  Inclytus hic Hæres magni requiescit Oenii,
  Consessus tantum mente modoque patrem.
  Servilem talis Cultum contempsit Agelli
  Et petiit Terras per Freta longa novas.[i]

[Footnote i: Public Advertiser. May 25th 1787. Sir Thomas Herbert's Translation, though faithful,
is not literal.

But, in my opinion, neither He nor Dr. Johnson enter into the real meaning of the Poet.]

It hath been said by some Writers that these Lines were found cut upon a stone in Mexico, but
this is said without Foundation. It is much more probable that they were written, on the above
occasion, by Sir Meredyth ab Rhys, who flourished about 300 Years after Madog's Voyages. However
it is certain that they were written, at least, 15 Years before Columbus first sailed on his
American Voyage; when no European Nation had any idea of a Western Continent. Of consequence,
the Story was not invented to be the Foundation of a Dispute between the Britons and the Spaniards
about the Discovery of the New World.

Another Writer who alludes to Madog's Voyage is the Author of a Book entitled "a brief Description
of the whole World." Edit. 5th. London Printed, for John Marriott, 1620.

"I am not ignorant that some who make too much of vain Shews, and of the British Antiquities,
have given out to the World, and written some things to that purpose, that Arthur some time
King of Britain had both Knowledge of those parts (the New World) and some Dominion in them;
for they find (as some report) that King Arthur had under his Government many Islands and great
Countries towards the North and West, which one of some special Note hath interpreted to signify
America, and the Northern parts thereof, and thereupon have gone about to entitle the Queen
of England (Elizabeth) to be the Soveraigne of these Provinces by right of Descent from King
Arthur. But the Wisdom of our State has been such as to neglect that Opinion, imagining it
to be grounded upon fabulous Foundations, as many things are, that are asserted of King Arthur.
Only this doth convey some Shew with it, that, now some Hundred Years, there was a Knight of
Wales who with Shipping, and some pretty Company did go to discover these parts, whereof, as
there is some record of reasonable Credit amongst the Monuments of Wales, so there is nothing
which giveth pregnant Shew thereunto, that in the late Navigations of some of our Menta Norumbega,
and some other northern parts of America they found some tokens of Civility and Christian Religion;
but especially they do meet with some Words of the Welsh Language, as that a Bird with a white
Head should be called Penguinn, and other such like; yet because we have now invincible certainty
thereof, and if any thing were done, it was only in the Northern and worse part, and the Intercourse
between Wales and those parts in the space of 700 Years, was not continued, but quite silenced,
we may go forward with that opinion that these Western Indies were no way known to former ages."

From this Extract we learn that in the Days of Queen Elizabeth a Tradition prevailed, that
at some former Period, Britons went to America. But that this happened in the Days of King
Arthur, and that he had knowledge of Foreign Countries, or any Dominion in them, is altogether
in-incredible. The Knight of Wales, mentioned by our Author certainly was Prince Madog; but
his Emigration is placed too early by about 400 years; for all Writers agree, that if he sailed
at all, it was in 1169, or 1170. The above Book was written during the Reign of Queen Elizabeth,
who ascended the Throne in 1558; and consequently the interval between Madog's Voyages, and
Elizabeth's Accession, was only about 400 Years. However, the Tradition generally prevailed,
and was supported by one of Special Note, in that Reign, when Dr. Powel published the History
of Caradoc, together with Humphry Llwyd's and his own Additions.

The next Account of Prince Madog's Adventures, I have met with is in Hornius De Originibus
Americanis. Hagæ Comitis, 1652. What he hath advanced is much the same, and contains little
more, as he himself says, than Extracts from Llwyd, Hakluyt, and Powel. His Observations on
the Subject are the following.

Ex his concludit omnillo Madocum cum Suis Cambris aliquam partem Americæ Septentrionalis obtinuisse.
Nec aliter statuet quisquis hanc Navigationem cum Situ Terrarum, vel obiter, contulerit. Nam
post Hiberniam nullæ navigantibus occurrunt terræ nisi Bermudæ ab omni ævo incultæ, et postea
ingens America. Cumque Zephyrum versus Cursum direxerit Madocus, dubium non est in ipsam devenerit
Virginiam vel novam Angliam, ibique suos exposuerit. Nec obstat quod tradunt incultam suisse,
et Hominibus vacuam Regionem: Vastissimæ illæ Terræ sunt, et nostro quoque ævo post sex Secula
maligne habitantur. Præterea Tractus ille ad quem Madac appulit desertus esse potuit; cum tamen
alia Loca et interiores partes barbaros Chichimecas haberent, quibus permixti Cambri et intermissa
illa Navigatione, Linguam Moresque patrios exuerint. In hac vehementer me confirmant Indigenarum
Traditiones. Nam Virginiani et Guahutemallæ antiquis Temporibus Madocum quendam velut Heroem
coluerunt. De Viginianis Martyr, Dec. VII. C. 3. De Guahutemallis, Dec. VIII C. 5. Habemus
Matec Zungam et Mat Ingam, qui cur Madoc Camber esse nequeat quem in eos partes delatum domestica
evincunt Monumenta, ratio nulla reddi potest. Ad antiquitatem, quinque illa Secula sussiciunt
quousque altissima Americanorum Memoria, nec sere ultra, adscendit.[k]

[Footnote k: Hornius, ubi Supra. Lib. III. Chap. 2. p. 134, &c.]

"From hence He (Hakluyt) concludes that Madog with his Cambrians discovered a part of North
America. A cursory attention to the Figure of the Earth must convince every one, that on this
Direction, he must have landed on that Continent: for beyond Ireland, no Land can be found
except Bermuda, to this Day (about 1650) uncultivated, but the extensive Continent of America.
As Madog directed his course Westward, it cannot be doubted but that he fell in with Virginia
or New England, and there settled. Nor is this contradicted by its being said that the Country
was uninhabited and uncultivated, for that Country is very extensive, and in our Times, after
Six Centuries, is but thinly Peopled. Besides, that Tract on which Madog landed might be desert,
and yet other Places in the interior Parts possessed by the barbarous Chichimecas[l] might
be populous, with whom the Cambrians mingled; and the communication being droped, (between
them and their mother Country) they adopted the Language, and the manners of the Country. The
Traditions prevailing among the Natives strongly confirm me in this Opinion; for the Virginians
and Guahutemallians, from ancient Times, worshiped one Madog as an Hero. Concerning the Virginians,
See Martyr Decade the VII. chap. 3. concerning the Guahutemallians, Decade VIII. chap. 5. Among
them we have Matec Zungam and Mat Jngam, and why this should not be Madog the Cambrian, whom
the Monuments in the Country prove to have been in those parts, no reason can be given. As
to Antiquity, five Centuries are sufficient, beyond which American Traditions do not ascend."[m]

[Footnote l: A barbarous People to the North West of Mexico.]

[Footnote m: There were two or more Peter Martyrs; the Person here referred to, was Peter Martyr,
the celebrated civilian of Anghiera or Angleria, in Italy. He lived in the Court of Ferdinand
the fifth, King of Spain, called the Catholic. In a volume of his Works which I have consulted
he calls himself, "Peter Martyr, Angi Mediolanen, Consiliarii regii, Pronotarii apost." It
is dedicated to Charles the 5th of Spain, and printed at Basil, by Bebelius 1533. He was born
in 1445, and died in 1525. The date of the first Chapter of the first Decade is, Ex Hispana
Curia Jdus Novem. 6. 1493. and of the 2d Chapter, Ex Hispana Curia tertio Calend Maii 1494.
See also the 10th Chapter of the 2d Decade. Columbus sailed on his first Voyage in the Autumn
of of 1492, and returned about February or March, 1493. Hence it appears that Peter Martyr
was in the Spanish Court when Columbus returned from his first Voyage; for his first Letter
is dated about 6 or 7 Months afterwards. Peter Martyr, therefore, ought to be considered as
a decisive Evidence that some Nations in America, honored the Memory of one Madog, when Columbus
landed on that Coast.

See Nouveau Dictionaire Historique, Ou Histoire abregee, &c. par une Sociate' de gens de Letres
6mo. Edition. 1786, Paris.]

This Author in the former part of this Chapter, says, Nam ubi demonstratum suerit, Madocum
cambriæ principem olim cum fuæ Gentis Hominibus novas in Occidente invenisse Terras et inhabitasse:
ejus etiam nomen ac memoriam adhuc inter barbaros superesse, nihil fere quod amplius ambigamus,
restabit. "For when it is demonstrated that Madog, a Prince of Cambria, with some of his Nation,
discovered and inhabited some Lands in the West, and that his Name and Memory are still retained
among them, scarcely any doubt remains."

In the above observations, we have as it appears to me, a clear proof that Madog visited America,
several centuries before the Spaniards. Matec Zungam, and Mat Jngam, seem to be plain corruptions
of the Name, Madog, the Hero whose Memory was retained, if not revered, by those who were descended
from his Colony.

In the Gentleman's Magazine, Vol. X, for the Year 1740. p. 103, &c. the following Narrative
is inserted.

[Footnote n: An Harbour at the Mouth of Albemarle River in North Carolina.]

[Footnote o: When it is considered that Mr. Jones's Visit to these Nations was near 500 Years
after the Emigration of Prince Madog, it can be no Wonder that the Language of both Mr. Jones
and the Indians was very much altered. After so long a period Mr. Jones must have been obliged
to make use of Words and Phrases, in preaching Christianity, with which they must have been
altogether unacquainted. Besides, all living Languages are continually changing; therefore
during so many Centuries, the Original Tongue must have been very much altered, by the Introduction
of New Words borrowed from the Inhabitants of the Country. Though the Language was radically
the same, yet Mr. Jones, especially, when treating of abstracted subjects, was hardly intelligible
to them, without some Explanations. We are told that the Religious Worship of the Mexicans,
with all its Absurdities, was less superstitious than that of the ancient and learned Greeks
and Romans. May we not hence conclude that the Mexicans derived some part of their Religious
Knowledge from a People enlightned by a divine Revelation; which, tho' very much corrupted
in the Days of Madoc, yet was superior to Heathen Darkness. Clavigero, Hist. of Mexico. Monthly
Review, Vol. 65. p. 462, &c.]

[Footnote p: Pontigo, seems to have been derived from the Welsh Pont y Go. "The Smith's Bridge;"
or Pant y Go, "The Smith's Valley." Perhaps a Smith dwelt by the Side of a River, or near a
Bridge. Dr. Robertson says, History of America, Vol. II. p. 126, that the Indians were very
ignorant of the use of Metals; Artificers in Metals were scarce, and on that account a Name
might be given to a Bridge or Valley where one dwelt. Doeg Indians, may be a corruption of
Madog's Indians. Cape Atros, Cape Hateras; near Cape Fair in Carolina, which last may be Cape
Mair, the Cape of Mary, i. e. the Virgin Mary.--I would just observe that some parts in Europe
seem to have derived their Names from the Welsh. Armorica, has been thought Latin, yet it is
most likely to be Welsh. Ar-y-môr "upon the Sea," which particularly is the Situation of Bretagne,
in France, twice peopled from Great Britain.]

This Letter was sent or given to Dr. Thomas Lloyd of Pensylvania, by whom it was transmitted
to Charle Llwyd Esq. of Dôl y frân in Montgomeryshire; and afterwards to Dr. Robert Plott by
Edward Llwyd, A. M. Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford.

Mr. Theophilus Evans, a Welch Clergyman, who communicated the above Letter to the Editor of
the Gentleman's Magazine, was Vicar of St. David's in Brecon, well acquainted with the History
of the Principality. He has made several judicious remarks upon it.[q]

[Footnote q: It may be supposed that the above Letter was published about the beginning of
the Spanish War in 1740, with a view of justifying that War; but the Story was not then invented,
for it has been above shewn that the Tradition concerning Madog, was well known long before
Elizabeth's reign; nay, long before she was born.]

He observes that the truth of Madog's Voyage is confirmed by it; that several Circumstances
unite to establish the Fact; and that several British Words were used by the Mexicans when
their Country was discovered by the Spaniards; such as Pengwyn, "White Head," the name, not
only of a Bird, but also given to high and bare Rocks.[r] Groeso "Wellcome." Gwenddwr, "white
or limpid Water." Bara, "Bread." Tâd, "Father." Mam "Mother." Buch or Buwch, "a Cow." Clug-Jâr,
"a Partridge, or Heath Cock" (Clugar is now the Armorican name of a Partridge.) Llwynog, "a
Fox," Coch y dwr, "a red water Bird," Many others are mentioned by Sir Thomas Herbert, in his
Travels.

