Sommerset was a tall, thin, genteel-looking man, in his thirtieth year. Motherless, sisterless,
and wifeless--strange to say, under such circumstances, he was restless too. It was not a weight
of crime that pressed upon his conscience. Cloudesly's life had been as harmless as those of
his own apple-trees. It was not inordinate ambition that disturbed his days, for though, like
most of us, Sommerset would have rather preferred being a great man, could greatness be easily
come at, he lost no labour in its pursuit. Neither was it love that besieged his peace; for,
except Miss Lily Prior, old Tom the brewer's daughter, who sat in the same pew at church, Sommerset
had never been known to look on one of womankind with attention. Perhaps the carefulness of
his education might have done it. Life could not be entirely folded up like a napkin, and put
into its proper drawer; and everything annoyed Sommerset Cloudesly. The coming off of his waistcoat
button was the destruction of Messina. The world was going to ruin if his horse lost a shoe.
Like the idle family in the Eastern tale, he could draw a disturbance from the future also,
and many a heart-quake had he regarding what might happen. His Oxford tutor had made him a
strong Tory; old Cloudesly had averred, that was the only politics for a gentleman; and though
Sommerset believed in all the alarms of his time, his faith being particularly strong for terrors,
he had always supposed himself to be somebody. Sir Jonas and the Earl of Lumberdale assured
him he was the hope of Tattleton; and, in an evil hour, he consented, in electioneering phrase,
to contest the borough.

With his relations, who regarded Sommerset as their top branch, the step was in high favour;
and all his friends came out strong in approbation, excepting old Tom Prior. He had been the
consulting friend and boon-companion of old Cloudesly forty years before, when the one began
to brew beer and the other to make cider. Tom's brewery had not paid him so well as old Cloudesly's
apples. He had been the first to establish a business of the kind in Tattleton. There were
three there at the time of the election; but the townspeople still knew him familiarly as the
brewer, though he had long become a sleeping partner, having saved enough for himself and his
old wife to live on in a cottage covered with grape vines, at the end of a long green lane
in which the main street of Tattleton dwindled away. There was, besides, a thousand pounds
for Lily, the heiress-apparent, moreover, of his interest in the brewery. Tom said 'he had
no notion of politics, being entirely given to beer; and who was right about that there Bill
he couldn't say, but he never knowed an honest man as made money by a contested election.'
Old Mrs Prior always echoed what her husband said, besides knitting a perpetual stocking that
was her only occupation; but Tom and his wife were old people now, and in small intimacy with
the college-bred young Cloudesly, though they sat in the same church-pew, and some thought
their daughter Lily was also a friend to our proposed member. Lily was as pretty a girl as
could be found in all Tattleton, which, together with her prospects, rather insured admirers;
but Lily took no trouble with any of them, and it was believed that the old folks rather wished
she should not be in a hurry.

