  "I pray you not to allow yourself to remain in disagreement either with
  this Church, which is the chief head of religion, and from which no one
  wishes to stray, or with all those Churches of which we have spoken, if
  you love to live in complete peace and concord with the Universal
  Church. For if--which we do not believe--your aversion for our
  instruction and for the tradition of our holy Pontiff is such that you
  are not willing to conform in every point to our rite, both in chants
  and lessons, know that we will repel you from our communion; for it is
  fitting and healthful for you to follow the usages for which the Roman
  Church, mother of all and mistress of you, shows such great love and
  invincible attachment. For this reason we order you, under pain of
  excommunication, to conform in the Churches both in singing and reading
  exclusively to the order instituted by the Holy Pope Gregory and
  followed by us, and without fail to practise and sing it in future with
  the utmost zeal. For if--which we cannot believe--anyone shall attempt
  by any means whatever to turn you from the right path by leading you to
  a tradition other than that which we have just prescribed to you for
  the present and the future, we not only order that he be deprived of
  partaking of the Holy Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, but in
  virtue of our proper authority and that of all our predecessors, we
  decree that in punishment of his audacity and presumption he remain
  under a perpetual anathema."--(Cod. Brit. Mus., add. 8873, fol.
  168.)

Pope Leo, the author of this letter, had himself been a pupil at this same monastery of St.
Martin. From thence also the priest John, the Precentor of St. Peter's, had set out 200 years
before to teach the English the system of chanting and reading followed at St. Peter's.

The above extract throws an important light on the progress of the Gregorian reform of the
ecclesiastical chant. In the latter half of the ninth century a powerful monastery close to
Rome had not yet adopted it. Compare with this fact the presence of the Ambrosian chant in
the province of Capua in the middle of the eleventh century (Kienle, in Studien und Mittheilungen
des Benedictiner und Cistercienser-Orden, 1884, p. 346), and the Ambrosian rubrics of various
books copied a little later for churches at Rome itself (Tomasi, Opp. vol. vii., pp. 9 & 10),
and it will be seen how gradually the Gregorian books attained their universal supremacy.

  III.--Hildemar (between 833 and 850), author of a commentary on the
  Rule of St. Bennet, speaks of St. Gregory as the composer of the "Roman
  Office": "Beatus Gregorius qui dicitur Romanum Officium fecisse."
  (Expositio Regula ab Hildemaro tradita, p. 311, Ratisbon, 1880.)

  IV.--Walafrid Strabo (807-849). De Ecclesiasticarum rerum exordiis et
  incrementis (composed about 840). "The tradition is that St. Gregory,
  just as he regulated the order of the masses and of consecrations
  [i.e., the Sacramentary and the Pontifical Rituale] so also had the
  greatest part in the arrangement of the liturgical chants, following
  the order which is observed to this day as the most fitting: as is
  commemorated at the head of the Antiphoner." (Op. cit. c. xxi.,
  Patr. Lat., cxiv., 948.)

This refers, strictly speaking, to the Antiphonale Missarum. But the following extract treats
directly of the chants of the office contained in the Liber Responsorialis, or corresponding
volume for the hour services.

  "As for the chants for use at the different hours, whether of the day
  or of the night, it is believed that it was St. Gregory who assigned to
  them their complete arrangement, just as he had already done, as we
  have said, for the Sacramentary." (c. xxv., 958.)

These two passages establish the fact that there was a tradition in the middle of the ninth
century that St. Gregory set in order the ecclesiastical music. It seems also that there was
an inscription at the beginning of the Antiphoner stating as a fact that he had done this.
The following extract helps us to identify what this inscription was.

  V.--Agobard of Lyons (779-840). Liber de Correctione Antiphonarii,
  c. xv., Patr. Lat. civ., 336. "But because the inscription serving
  for title to the book in question [i.e., the Antiphoner] puts in the
  forefront the name of 'Gregorius Præsul,' thereupon some people imagine
  that the work was composed by the Blessed Gregory, Pope of Rome and
  illustrious doctor."

He is here defending the chant of Lyons against the ultramontane efforts of Amalarius to introduce
the Roman ways. He goes on to try to prove that the Antiphoner defended by Amalarius cannot
be St. Gregory's, because he had forbidden the use of words not taken directly from Scripture.

VI.--Amalarius of Metz (815-835) is undoubtedly the person who played the foremost part in
the fusion of the Gallican element with the rest of the Gregorian or Gelasian Liturgy, from
which combination has come in substance the Roman Liturgy in use to-day. He had travelled much,
and had been at Rome. He is a weighty authority in the present question. The following extracts
are taken from a supplementary chapter of his De Divinis Officiis, published by Mabillon, in
his Vetera Analecta (Paris, 1723). He is speaking of the Pope Gregory who is the author of
the Dialogues, and who sent St. Augustine into England.

  "Amongst the monks who have been raised to the Supreme Pontificate can
  be cited Denys, and Gregory of incomparable memory. Now Gregory,
  amongst many other things by which he furthered the advantage of the
  Church, had the glory of being the chief organizer of the Office for
  clerical use." (p. 93.)

  "In the time of St. Bennet the whole order of psalmody had not yet been
  fixed with precision in the Psalter and the Antiphoner: it was the
  incomparable Pope Gregory of holy memory, himself a zealous observer of
  the rule of St. Bennet and an imitator of his monastic perfection, who
  afterwards regulated the arrangement of it under the direction of the
  Holy Spirit." (pp. 93-4.)

  "Far from blaming those who preserve the Gregorian usage, they should
  rather praise them." (p. 94.)

  "In the authentic model of St. Gregory, the Alleluia and the Gloria
  are suppressed at the Mass for Innocents' Day, in order to express the
  grief of the mothers or of the Church." (p. 96.)

Amalarius was commissioned by Louis the Debonair to procure at Rome a copy of the Antiphoner
to serve as a model for an uniform use in place of the varying uses then to be found. The Pope
in answer to his request replied, "I have no Antiphoner that I can send to my son and lord
the Emperor. Those which we had, were taken to France by Wala, Abbot of Corbie, when he came
here on a mission." On his return to France, Amalarius went to Corbie, where he found the four
volumes brought by Wala. They contained an inscription saying that this collection was put
in order by Pope Adrian I. But he found that they differed from the books at Metz, which were
older still; so in despair he made a compilation of his own, taking from each what seemed to
him the best.

Now it has been argued that if these Antiphoners had either of them borne the name of Gregory
the Great, Amalarius would not have had the audacity to alter them in this manner, nor would
he if there had existed anywhere in Gaul any bearing his name. But this idea has arisen from
the confusion attending the name "antiphoner." The book that Amalarius was dealing with was
not the Antiphoner for Mass, but the Antiphoner for Divine Service. There were great variations
in the latter in different localities down to the reform by Pius V., far more than in the former.
When the "famous authentic model of Gregory" is spoken of, it is the Antiphonale Missarum which
is meant.

  VII.--Amalarius, Bishop of Trèves (809-814). Liber Officiorum, from a
  MS. at Trèves, quoted by Morin, fol. 6, De Missa Innocentium. "The
  Mass of the Innocents begins in the Diurnal with this Rubric: 'Gloria
  in Excelsis Deo is not sung, nor Alleluia, unless it be Sunday; this
  day is passed in a sort of sadness.' The Holy Pope Gregory, in whom
  dwelt in very truth the Holy Ghost, and to whom is due the composition
  of this office, means us to share the feelings of the pious women who
  bewailed and lamented the death of the Innocents. And if it is
  permitted to transgress the order of so great a Father, it would
  equally be lawful to chant Alleluia with the complete office of the day
  on Good Friday."

    It is a question here of the Antiphoner of the Mass.

  (fol. 7.) On the day of the Epiphany "we lose one of the chants which
  we have at Christmas, viz., the Invitatory. St. Gregory, the organizer
  of the offices, meant by this peculiarity to recall to our memory as
  strongly as he could what passed formerly at the time of the
  accomplishment of the mysteries which we honour. That is why we chant
  in the sixth place the psalm which we had avoided in the beginning. It
  is true that certain blunderers treat this with indifference and
  contempt, thinking it much better to follow the ordinary usage of each
  day. But, as we have already said, he wished by this to distinguish"
  &c., &c.

    This passage refers to the Antiphoner of the Office.

  (fol. 9-10.) "That is why Gregory, the author of our office, has
  placed Septuagesima.... However, Gregory the institutor of our
  office...."

    It is a question of the Antiphoner and of the Sacramentary.

  (fol. 39.) "The author of our office, who is none other than
  Gregory...."

    He is referring to a portion of the Antiphoner of the Mass.

In the following passage Amalarius distinguishes the work of the two first Gregories as to
the Thursdays in Lent.

  (fol. 102.) "The Holy Pope Gregory in arranging the offices of the
  year had left vacant the Thursdays of Lent.... A long time after him
  another Pope, Gregory the younger, ordained that these days should also
  be celebrated by Masses and Prayers, but with less solemnity, and he
  borrowed wherever he could material to form the offices of these
  Thursdays."

  VIII.--Pope Adrian I. (772-795). A MS. from Saint Martial de Limoges
  contains this passage (Paris, Bibl. Nat., No. 2400.) "Adrian II.,
  after the example of his predecessor of the same name, completed the
  Gregorian Antiphoner in several places. He also arranged a second
  prologue in hexameter verse to be chanted at High Mass on the first day
  of Advent. This prologue begins in the same way as another very short
  one composed by the first Adrian to be sung at all the Masses of this
  first Sunday in Advent, but that of Adrian II. is composed of a greater
  number of verses."

We have seen the passage in which Walafrid Strabo speaks of the inscription at the beginning
of the Antiphoner, ascribing its origin to Gregory I., and again that in which Agobard of Lyons
tells us that the inscription contained the words "Gregorius Præsul." There are five forms
extant of the prologue in hexameter verse. The shortest, and therefore the one probably composed
by Adrian I., is as follows:--

      "Gregorius Præsul meritis et nomine dignus
      Unde genus ducit, summum ascendit honorem.
      Renovavit monumenta patrum priorum: tunc
      Composuit hunc libellum musicæ artis
      Scholæ cantorum anni circuli: Ad te levavi."

All the five forms begin with the same two first lines. Eckhart got over the difficulty caused
to his theory by these lines by supposing that "Gregorius Præsul" meant not Gregory the Great,
but Gregory II. But he does not explain how "Unde genus ducit," &c., can refer to the latter.
But it fits Gregory I. in this way: Pope Felix was his great-great-grandfather; so that, on
succeeding to the papacy, he as it were entered on a family inheritance.

This prologue proves that the Antiphoner was ascribed by tradition to St. Gregory in the latter
half of the eighth century.

IX.--Egbert, Archbishop of York (732-766), is a still more important witness. Born about 678,
he was ordained deacon at Rome, and received the archiepiscopal pallium from Gregory III. in
735. He was the disciple and friend of Bede, the confidant and benefactor of St. Boniface,
and the teacher of Alcuin. Shortly after he became archbishop he composed a work addressed
to his brother bishops, and called De Institutione Catholica. The following extracts from it
refer to the Ember-day Fasts.

  "As for us in the Church of England, we always observe the Fast of the
  First Month in the first week of Lent, relying on the authority of our
  teacher, St. Gregory, who has thus regulated it in the model which he
  has handed down to us in his Antiphoner and his Missal through the
  medium of our pedagogue the Blessed Augustine." (Patr. Lat. lxxxix.,
  441.)

  "As for the Fast of the Fourth Month, the same St. Gregory, by the same
  envoy, has prescribed in his Antiphoner and his Missal the week which
  follows Pentecost as that in which the Church of England ought to
  celebrate it. And this is attested not only by our own Antiphoners, but
  also by those which we have inspected with their corresponding missals
  in the Churches of St. Peter and St. Paul." (Ibid.)

Egbert brings us back to the seventh century, but during that century (the beginning of which
saw the death of Gregory) we have no direct evidence. There are some considerations, however,
which may account for this.

In the first place, we have very little light thrown on the history of St. Gregory by the sources
of the seventh century. Apart from his Registrum there is little recorded that would by itself
justify his surname of the Great. In the Liber Pontificalis there are only a few lines about
him, whilst the Hellenic Popes, who sat in the Papal chair from 685 to 741, have detailed biographies,
generally very laudatory. The mission of Augustine for the conversion of England is undoubtedly
one of the most striking facts in Gregory's life; but the only chronicler of the seventh century
who mentions it is the Continuator of Prosper. Is it surprising, then, that there is a still
more profound silence on a fact less calculated to attract outside attention, such as is the
recasting of the liturgical books peculiar to the Church at Rome?

In the second place, care must be taken not to apply the ideas of to-day to another age. It
must not be supposed that the Gregorian Reform was promulgated throughout the Western Churches
in the same manner, for instance, as the Reform of Pius V. The modern system of centralization
did not then exist. When Gregory took the liturgical books in hand, he had at first in view
only the Papal chapel, and the churches at Rome under his immediate supervision. It was their
importation into England in the lifetime of St. Augustine, and into the Frankish Empire two
hundred years after, under the pressure exerted by the first Carlovingians, which gave the
greatest impetus to their universal use. In Italy, on the contrary, and even at Rome, it came
about gradually only through the insistence of such Popes as Leo IV. and Stephen X. that the
Gregorian Chant in the end completely supplanted that in use in early times in the Peninsula.
This explains why the first witnesses in favour of the Gregorian tradition come to us from
England and Carlovingian Gaul.

Again, one ought not to expect to find the chroniclers laying stress on the Gregorian origin
of the Roman books in the lifetime of those who were contemporaries and disciples of the great
Pope, and who had themselves introduced the book from Rome. The fact would be taken as a matter
of course. It would not be till these had passed away that a tradition would begin to form,
and stress be laid on the fact; and this brings us to the date of Archbishop Egbert.

Besides, who would have suspected the full importance of this Gregorian form, and, in particular,
have foreseen that it would put a limit to the period of elaboration of the Western liturgy?
So many Popes had already taken the matter in hand. The great work of Gregory was to organize,
set in order, and fix. But only time can show what is really fixed. The greatness of his work
is only apparent after having remained unaltered for centuries.

These considerations tend to show that there is no cause for surprise that it should have taken
so long for people to realize the greatness of Gregory's work in setting in order the music
of the Church.

                           INTERNAL EVIDENCE.

The oldest Antiphoners that we possess are some two hundred years later than Gregory I. But
they possess two peculiarities which raise a presumption in favour of an origin at least as
old as St. Gregory.

The first peculiarity lies in the version of Scripture from which are taken the portions to
which the music is set. This version is the old Latin one known as "Itala." Now even if at
the time of St. Gregory it had not entirely given place to the Vulgate, yet from his time onwards
the latter prevailed universally (except for the Psalter, which was retained at Rome till the
time of Pius V., and is still used at St. Peter's), not only in Rome, but in all the West;
so much so, that St. Isidore of Seville could assert in the first half of the seventh century,
that St. Jerome's version had already been taken into use by all the Churches as preferable
to the ancient one. It is natural to seek the explanation of preserving an obsolete text of
the words in the respect felt for the melodies to which they were set. It is, therefore, reasonable
to conclude that these melodies existed for the most part before the definite abandonment of
the Itala at Rome, that is to say before the middle of the seventh century.

The second peculiarity which supports this conclusion is to be found in the comparison of the
Offices, known to have been added since the time of St. Gregory, with the older portion of
the Antiphoner. With very few, and those very doubtful, exceptions, the materials for these
are all taken from older Offices. Sometimes both words and tunes are transferred bodily; sometimes
new words are set to the old melodies.

There are certain Masses of Saints, the chants for which were taken from those which later
were collected together to form the Common. For the Feasts of the Annunciation, the Assumption,
and the Nativity of the Virgin, all the chants were taken from older Masses, e.g., from the
masses of Advent and of certain Virgins and Martyrs. The Procession of the Purification, both
words and melody, was borrowed from the Greeks by Pope Sergius. For the Mass of the Exaltation
of the Holy Cross all the chants were taken from elsewhere, with the possible exception of
the Communion. The Introit and the Gradual were taken from Maundy Thursday, the Alleluia from
Friday in Easter week, and the Offertory from Maundy Thursday, or the Second Mass for Christmas-day.
The Introit for the Purification is borrowed from the Eighth Sunday after Trinity.

The compositions either in the Sanctorale or the Temporale of the Mass that can be definitely
dated as introduced after the death of St. Gregory are very few, and may perhaps have been
borrowed, with the Festivals themselves, from outside by the Roman Church.

It is a reasonable conclusion to draw, then, that the addition of these portions in the seventh
century shows at least a great diminution of musical productive power, and that the bulk of
the Antiphoner of the Mass must have been composed before this date. This inference is supported
by the conclusion which M. Gevaert draws from his examination of the Antiphons of Divine Service
(La Melopée Antique, p. 175), viz., that the Golden Age for compositions of this class was
the period 540-600. The natural deduction from this is that the main settlement of the Antiphoner
of the Mass fell within the same period.

Still it may not have been wholly due to a cessation of musical activity that new music for
the Mass gradually ceased to be written in the course of the seventh century, for a certain
amount of music still continued to be written for the Hour Services. It may have been due to
a feeling that the book was a closed and settled one after a final and authoritative revision
such as St. Gregory's is traditionally held to have been, and that it was presumptuous to add
to it. But whichever view is taken of this, the Gregorian tradition is equally supported.

A further support to the claims of Gregory I. as against Gregory II. is to be found in an examination
of the Communions of the Masses of Lent. These form a series taken from the Psalms in numerical
order, I. to XXVI., with the exception of five for which have been substituted texts taken
from the Gospel. The Thursdays in Lent, however, form an exception to this scheme; they are
interpolations breaking the order of it. Now we know that they were added by Gregory II.; therefore
the original scheme of the Masses of Lent, at least, was drawn up before the time of Gregory
II. Of the twenty-four pieces contained in the masses for the first six Thursdays in Lent,
twenty-one appear in the Sundays after Trinity. It seems certain that the Thursdays in Lent
must have borrowed from the Sundays after Trinity, and not vice versa; this is supported by
the fact that the Graduals and Offertories of the Thursdays in Lent are all borrowed, and of
the Sundays after Trinity hardly any. So this addition, which we know to be of the date of
Gregory II., was made to a scheme already in existence, and both words and music were borrowed
from other parts of the Antiphonale Missarum.

As against the claims made for the Hellenic Popes of the seventh and eighth centuries, it is
worth while to examine the music which it is probable was introduced by Hellenic influence
during that time, and compare it with the bulk of the "Gregorian." The tropes and the melodies
from which the sequences developed probably come under this head, and some specimens of these
may be seen in the Winchester Troper (Ed. Rev. W. H. Frere, H. Bradshaw Society, 1894). An
examination of these melodies will show that their structure is entirely unlike the structure
of the Gregorian melodies, especially in the close with a rise from the note below the final
to the final, which continually occurs at the end of the phrases. This will be very clear from
the accompanying melody, Cithara, from which the sequence Rex Omnipotens was formed. This form
of close appears at the end of each of the first five sections, and again at the end of the
seventh and eighth. In the rest of the sequence, the melody rises to a higher range, and the
close appears a fifth higher in the ninth and tenth sections, a fourth higher in the eleventh
and thirteenth, and a whole octave higher in the twelfth. This transposition of the range of
the melody is more developed here than in most sequence melodies, but some such transposition
is a prominent characteristic of many of them. There is nothing at all like it in the genuine
Roman chant.

                                 CITHARA

              IN WHAT DID THE WORK OF ST. GREGORY CONSIST?

John the Deacon describes his Antiphoner as a "cento" (Antiphonarium Centonem compilavit),
and speaks of him, as we have seen, as "Antiphonarium centonizans." "Cento" is a Low Latin
word meaning patchwork, combination, or compilation. "Antiphonarius cento" would therefore
mean an Antiphoner compiled from various sources. And this is the character of the Gregorian
Antiphoner of the Mass, even of the nucleus which remains after omitting the parts known to
have been added since Gregory's time. Indeed the whole phrase quoted above has a ring of truth
about it, and makes the tradition which he reports of a more genuine historical character,
for if it had been a mere vague tradition in glorification of St. Gregory, he would have been
more likely to have spoken of him as the composer of the Antiphoner, and not as a mere compiler.
The oldest part of the book is formed of the Feasts celebrated in honour of events and saints
spoken of in Scripture, and of the oldest Roman Saints. The Masses for these are taken from
Scripture, especially from the Psalms. For Feasts of non-Roman origin, the text is taken from
the Church from which they are introduced; e.g., the Feast of St. Agatha from the Sicilian
Church, or the Feasts coming from the Greek Church which were translated from the Greek. The
want of uniformity in the arrangement of the text is seen by comparing the different classes
of chants in Codex St. Gall, 329. As a rule, the words of one and the same Mass are all of
different origin. The most ancient part of the Masses is the Graduals and Tracts, and all these
(which are the most ancient solos of the Mass) in the Gregorian nucleus are taken from Biblical
sources. This part of the "cento Antiphonarius" is put together in one system after an established
tradition. In the oldest Feasts there are Psalm-graduals, but Introits taken from other books
of the Bible. The parts other than the Gradual and Tract were chosen on a different system,
a considerable number in fact have words not taken from the Bible at all. The Communions, again,
form a class by themselves, and were sometimes chosen with special reference to the Gospel
for the day, which is the case with no other class of the texts of the chants.

Now this editing of the texts must have implied the editing of the music also. In the middle
ages the choir played a more important part than they do to-day in the Roman Church. For now
the Service is complete without their part, as the priest says the whole Service whether the
choir is there or not. But formerly it was different; all listened or took part, including
the celebrant, while the choir sang. The latter had a very definite share in the liturgical
order, which was incomplete without them; in particular, the soloists had full scope for their
talents in the chants between the Epistle and Gospel. In view of this intimate relation between
the choir and the altar, a revision of the text must almost necessarily have implied a revision
of the music. And this is probably the chief part of his musical reform; in the saying about
him, ascribed to Pope Adrian II., "Ipse Patrum monumenta sequens renovavit et auxit."

What was the musical material on which he had to work, which he had to put into shape, and
to which he added new pieces? It is probably substantially represented by the Ambrosian chant
as we find it in the oldest MSS. It seems most likely that it is the musical counterpart of
the primitive liturgy organized, as is supposed, about the epoch of Pope Damasus, of which
the Ambrosian, Gallican, Mozarabic, and Celtic are so many variations, due to national characteristics.
Documentary proof of this is but scanty, but a study of the Lessons used at Mass supports the
theory as far as the text is concerned. It is further recorded that at Monte Cassino the Ambrosian
chant was fused with the Gregorian by order of Pope Stephen IX. (1057-8). Here the Pre-Gregorian
chant is simply called Ambrosian. A considerable number of melodies are practically identical
with those in the Roman books. The framework, so to speak, is the same, but the details and
embellishments often differ. The Ambrosian melodies are sometimes rather bald, and often excessively
florid; the extremely long neums which they often contain appear to have been due to Greek
influence. The Gregorian, on the other hand, appear to have been in some places pruned, in
others expanded, with the result that they give the impression of being better balanced; the
different parts of the musical phrases are more justly proportioned. In the Ambrosian melodies
the B natural occurs very constantly, and gives them a masculine flavour, sometimes amounting
to harshness.

The examples here given will enable some idea to be formed of the advance made by the Gregorian
version upon the Ambrosian, both in music and text.

But Pope Adrian II. says of St. Gregory not merely "renovavit," but "auxit." He not only edited
and adapted the old melodies, but provided new ones for the new texts which he added to the
cycle of liturgical worship. What were these musical additions?

He extended the use of Alleluia to all Sundays and Festivals throughout the year except in
Septuagesima, and it is probable that he added new melodies for the new Alleluias. It is significant
that the Alleluias are the least stable part of the Antiphoner. At all events, the Ambrosian
alleluiatic verses differ entirely from the Gregorian. The same consideration applies to the
tracts, the use of which he extended in Septuagesima.

Another tendency of Gregory's reform was his marked desire to harmonize the text of the Communions
with that of the Gospel of the day. There are a considerable number of these, hardly any traces
of which are to be found in the Ambrosian books. It is, then, reasonable to ascribe to St.
Gregory an important part in the composition of these chants.

The further important question arises, did Gregory carry out this musical work himself, or
was it done by others under his direction?

It is natural to think of his Schola Cantorum in this connection. The foundation of this must
have had a profound effect both on the standard of the performance of the chant, and on the
spread of the Gregorian reform. Books were scarce in those days, and musical notation defective.
Teaching was chiefly by word of mouth. The Director of the Choir had his manuscript to teach
from, and his pupils had to learn the melodies by heart. The chief singer also had his liber
cantatorius from which to sing the solos, such as the Graduals and Tracts. The School was,
necessarily, not merely for teaching correct versions of the chant, but for preserving the
correct tradition of the method of performance. Most of the seventh century popes were connected
with the School or proceeded from it.

The skilled musicians belonging to this School may have helped to carry out the reform under
Gregory's direction. But no tradition appears to have been preserved to that effect, and the
unity and uniform characteristics seem to point to the work of one genius, even in the smallest
details; and the characteristics there displayed seem to fit in with what we know from other
sources of his character, in his writings and in his actions.

In conclusion it is submitted that the evidence here put forward, though in some respects rather
scanty, yet, in the absence of any strong evidence to the contrary, is quite sufficient to
justify the tradition that St. Gregory was the organiser, reformer, and to some extent the
author of the Antiphoner of the Mass. It is, of course, more difficult to say definitely what
his work actually was in these three divisions, but a quite sufficient amount of certainty
has been attained for us to realize the extent and the nature of the debt which succeeding
ages have owed to the great Pope, and so far the attacks that have been made on the tradition
have only resulted in setting it on a firmer and more definite basis.

                      THE PORTRAITS OF ST. GREGORY.

The oldest portrait of which we have a record is one of which a very full description was given
by John the Deacon, Gregory's biographer. This likeness was to be seen in John's day (in the
latter part of the ninth century) in Gregory's house, which he had converted into a monastery,
in a small room behind the brethren's store-room or granary. It was surrounded by a circular
plaster frame. Probably the whole figure was not represented; at all events, the following
description which he gives stops at the hands.

"His figure was of ordinary height, and was well made; his face was a happy medium between
the length of his father's and the roundness of his mother's face, so that with a certain roundness
it seemed to be of a very comely length, his beard being like his father's, of a rather tawny
colour, and of moderate length. He was rather bald, so that in the middle of his forehead he
had two small neat curls, twisted towards the right; the crown of his head was round and large,
his darkish hair being nicely curled and hanging down as far as the middle of his ear; his
forehead was high, his eyebrows long and elevated; his eyes had dark pupils, and though not
large were open, under full eyelids; his nose from the starting-point of his curving eyebrows
being thin and straight, broader about the middle, slightly aquiline, and expanded at the nostrils;
his mouth was red, lips thick and sub-divided; his cheeks were well-shaped, and his chin of
a comely prominence from the confines of the jaws; his colour was swarthy and ruddy, not, as
it afterwards became, unhealthy looking; his expression was kindly; he had beautiful hands,
with tapering fingers, well adapted for writing."

The description goes on to say that Gregory wore the penula (cloak) of chestnut colour, and
over it the sacred pall, and that in his hands he carried the book of the Gospel. We learn,
further, that he did not have the round nimbus, but a rectangular or square one, with which
it was the custom to adorn the heads of portraits of eminent people in their life-time. John
considers this a sure proof that the painting was executed during the life of the saint; if
it had been done after his death, he would have been given a circular nimbus.

In the same monastery were portraits of his father and mother, Gordianus and Silvia. But of
course all have been destroyed.

The portrait (frontispiece) here reproduced is a reconstruction from John the Deacon's description,
made by Angelo Rocca, Bishop of Tagaste, and a noted archæologist of his time (1597). He combined
the three portraits in one.

Another reconstruction from John the Deacon's description may be seen in Rassegna Gregoriana
for June, 1903. This follows the description more closely than does that of Rocca.

At a later date there grew up the custom of representing St. Gregory always with a dove. According
to John the Deacon it was already customary in his day (c. 872). This is seen in our second
illustration (opposite page 11), taken from the Antiphoner of the monk Hartker of St. Gall
(date between 986 and 1011). This illustration has the characteristics found in the greater
number of representations of Gregory; the dove (the symbol of the Holy Ghost) is represented
as inspiring him, and he is dictating to the scribe, who is said to be the deacon Peter. The
veneration felt for his writings, and in particular those of the ecclesiastical chant, was
such that they were felt to be due directly to the inspiration of the Holy Ghost. Here the
Pope is represented as wearing an alb, a dalmatic, a planeta and over it the sacred pall, and
on his left forearm, a maniple.

