No. 51.] SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19 16. 1850. [Price, with Supplement, 6d. Stamped Edition, 7d.

       *       *       *       *       *

CONTENTS.

  NOTES:--
    Roberd the Robber, by R.J. King                         321
    On a Passage in the Merry Wives of Windsor, and on Conjectural
      Emendation                                            322
    Minor Notes:--Chaucer's Damascene--Long Friday--Hip,
      hip, Hurrah!--Under the Rose--Albanian Literature     322
  QUERIES:--
    Bibliographical Queries                                 323
    Fairfax's Tasso                                         325
    Minor Queries:--Jeremy Taylor's Ductor Dubitantium--First
      Earl of Roscommon--St. Cuthbert--Vavasour
      of Haslewood--Bells in Churches--Alteration
      of Title-pages--Weights for Weighing Coins--Shunamitis
      poema--Lachrymatories--Egg-cups used by
      the Romans--Meleteticks--Luther's Hymns--"Pair of
  	Twises"--Countermarks on Roman Coin                   325
  REPLIES:--
    Gaudentio di Lucca                                      327
    Englemann's Bibliotheca Scriptorum Classicorum, by
      Professor De Morgan                                   328
    Shakspeare's Use of the Word "Delighted," by Samuel
      Hickson                                               329
    Collar of Esses, by John Gough Nichols                  329
    Sirloin, by T.T. Wilkinson, &c.                         331
    Riots of London, by E.B. Price, &c.                     332
    Meaning of "Gradely"                                    334
    Pascal and his Editor Bossut, by Gustave Masson         335
    Kings-skugg-sio, by E. Charlton, &c.                    335
    Gold in California                                      336
    The Disputed Passage from the Tempest, by
      Samuel Hickson, &c.                                   337
    "London Bridge is broken down," by Dr. E.F. Rimbault    338
    Arabic Numerals                                         339
    Caxton's Printing-office, by J. Cropp                   340
    Cold Harbour                                            340
    St. Uncumber, by W.J. Thoms                             342
    Handfasting                                             342
    Gray's Elegy--Droning--Dodsley's Poems                  343
    Replies to Minor Queries:--Zündnadel Guns--Thompson
      of Esholt--Minar's Books of Antiquities--Smoke
      Money--Holland Land--Caconac, Caconacquerie--Discourse
      of national Excellencies of England--Saffron
      Bags--Milton's Penseroso--Achilles and the
      Tortoise--Stepony Ale--North Side of Churchyards--Welsh
      Money--Wormwood--Puzzling Epitaph--Umbrella--Pope
      and Bishop Burgess--Book of
      Homilies--Roman Catholic Theology--Modum Promissionis--Bacon
      Family--Execution of Charles I.,
      and Earl of Stair--Watermarks on Writing-paper--St.
      John Nepomuc--Satirical Medals--Passage in
      Gray--Cupid Crying--Anecdote of a Peal of Bells, &c.  343
  MISCELLANEOUS:--
    Notes on Books, Sales, Catalogues, &c.                  350
    Books and Odd Volumes Wanted                            351
    Notices to Correspondents                               351
    Advertisements                                          351

       *       *       *       *       *

NOTES.

ROBERD THE ROBBER.

In the Vision of Piers Ploughman are two remarkable passages in which mention is made of "Roberd
the robber," and of "Roberdes knaves."

  "Roberd the robbere,
    On Reddite loked,
   And for ther was noght wherof
    He wepte swithe soore."
          Wright's ed., vol. i. p. 105.

  "In glotonye, God woot,
    Go thei to bedde,
  And risen with ribaudie,
    The Roberdes knaves."
          Vol. i. p. 3.

In a note on the second passage, Mr. Wright quotes a statute of Edw. III., in which certain
malefactors are classed together "qui sont appellez Roberdesmen, Wastours, et Dragelatche:"
and on the first he quotes two curious instances in which the name is applied in a similar
manner,--one from a Latin song of the reign of Henry III.:

  "Competenter per Robert, robbur designatur;
  Robertus excoriat, extorquet, et minatur.
  Vir quicunque rabidus consors est Roberto."

It seems not impossible that we have in these passages a trace of some forgotten mythical personage.
"Whitaker," says Mr. Wright, "supposes, without any reason, the 'Roberde's knaves' to be 'Robin
Hood's men.'" (Vol. ii. p. 506.) It is singular enough, however, that as early as the time
of Henry III. we find the term 'consors Roberto' applied generally, as designating any common
thief or robber; and without asserting that there is any direct allusion to "Robin Hood's men"
in the expression "Roberdes knaves," one is tempted to ask whence the hero of Sherwood got
his own name?

Grimm (Deutsche Mythol., p. 472.) has suggested that Robin Hood may be connected with an equally
famous namesake, Robin Goodfellow; and that he may have been so called from the hood or hoodikin,
which is a well-known characteristic of the mischievous elves. I believe, however, it is now
generally admitted that "Robin Hood" is a corruption {322} of "Robin o' th' Wood" equivalent
to "silvaticus" or "wildman"--a term which, as we learn from Ordericus, was generally given
to those Saxons who fled to the woods and morasses, and long held them against their Norman
enemies.

It is not impossible that "Robin o' the Wood" may have been a general name for any such outlaws
as these and that Robin Hood, as well as "Roberd the Robbere" may stand for some earlier and
forgotten hero of Saxon tradition. It may be remarked that "Robin" is the Norman diminutive
of "Robert", and that the latter is the name by which we should have expected to find the doings
of a Saxon hero commemorated. It is true that Norman and Saxon soon came to have their feelings
and traditions in common; but it is not the less curious to find the old Saxon name still traditionally
applied by the people, as it seems to have been from the Vision of Piers Ploughman.

Whether Robin Goodfellow and his German brother "Knecht Ruprecht" are at all connected with
Robin Hood, seems very doubtful. The plants which, both in England and in Germany, are thus
named, appear to belong to the elf rather than to the outlaw. The wild geranium, called "Herb
Robert" in Gerarde's time, is known in Germany as "Ruprecht's Kraut". "Poor Robin", "Ragged
Robin", and "Robin in the Hose", probably all commemorate the same "merry wanderer of the night."

RICHARD JOHN KING.

       *       *       *       *       *

ON A PASSAGE IN "THE MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR," AND ON CONJECTURAL EMENDATION.

The late Mr. Baron Field, in his Conjectures on some Obscure and Corrupt Passages of Shakspeare,
published in the "Shakspeare Society's Papers," vol. ii. p. 47., has the following, note on
The Merry Wives of Windsor, Act ii. Sc. 2.:--

"'Falstaff. I myself sometimes having the fear of heaven on the left hand, and hiding mine
honour in my necessity, am fain to shuffle, to hedge, and to lurch; and yet you, you rogue,
will esconce your rags, your cat-a-mountain looks, your red-lattice phrases and your bold-beating
oaths, under the shelter of your honour.'

"Pistol, to whom this was addressed, was an ensign, and therefore rags can hardly bear the
ordinary interpretation. A rag is a beggarly fellow, but that will make little better sense
here. Associated as the phrase is, I think it must mean rages, and I find the word used for
ragings in the compound bard-rags, border-ragings or incursions, in Spenser's Fairy Queen,
ii. x. 63., and Colin Clout, v. 315."

Having on one occasion found that a petty larceny committed on the received text of the poet,
by taking away a superfluous b, made all clear, perhaps I may be allowed to restore the abstracted
letter, which had only been misplaced and read brags, with, I trust, the like success? Be it
remembered that Pistol, a braggadocio, is made up of brags and slang; and for that reason I
would also read, with Hanmer, bull-baiting, instead of the unmeaning "bold-beating oaths."

I well know with what extreme caution conjectural emendation is to be exercised; but I cannot
consent to carry it to the excess, or to preserve a vicious reading, merely because it is warranted
by the old copies.

Regretting, as I do, that Mr. Collier's, as well as Mr. Knight's, edition of the poet, should
both be disfigured by this excess of caution, I venture to subjoin a cento from George Withers,
which has been inscribed in the blank leaf of one of them.

  "Though they will not for a better
  Change a syllable or letter,
  Must the Printer's spots and stains
  Still obscure THE POET'S Strains?
  Overspread with antique rust,
  Like whitewash on his painted bust
  Which to remove revived the grace
  And true expression of his face.
  So, when I find misplaced B's,
  I will do as I shall please.
  If my method they deride,
  Let them know I am not tied,
  In my free'r course, to chuse
  Such strait rules as they would use;
  Though I something miss of might,
  To express his meaning quite.
  For I neither fear nor care
  What in this their censures are;
  If the art here used be
  Their dislike, it liketh me.
  While I linger on each strain,
  And read, and read it o'er again,
  I am loth to part from thence,
  Until I trace the poet's sense,
  And have the Printer's errors found,
  In which the folios abound."

PERIERGUS BIBLIOPHILUS.

October.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Chaucer's Damascene.--Warton, in his account of the physicians who formed the Library of the
Doctor of Physic, says of John Damascene that he was "Secretary to one of the caliphs, wrote
in various sciences before the Arabians had entered Europe, and had seen the Grecian philosophers."
(History of English Poetry, Price's ed., ii. 204.) Mr. Saunders, in his book entitled Cabinet
Pictures of English Life, "Chaucer", after repeating the very words of this meagre account,
adds, "He was, however, more famous for his religious than his medical writings; and obtained
for his eloquence the name of the Golden-flowing" (p 183.) Now Mr. Saunders certainly, whatever
Warton did, has confounded Damascenus, the physician, with Johannes Damascenus Chrysorrhoas,
"the {323} last of the Greek Fathers," (Gibbon, iv. 472.) a voluminous writer on ecclesiastical
subjects, but no physician, and therefore not at all likely to be found among the books of
Chaucer's Doctour,

    "Whose studie was but litel on the Bible."

Chaucer's Damascene is the author of Aphorismorum Liber, and of Medicinæ Therapeuticæ, libri
vii. Some suppose him to have lived in the ninth, others in the eleventh century, A.D.; and
this is about all that is known about him. (See Biographie Universelle, s.v.)

ED. S. JACKSON.

Long Friday, meaning of.--C. Knight, in his Pictorial Shakspeare, explains Mrs. Quickly's phrase
in Henry the Fourth--"'Tis a long loan for a poor lone woman to bear,"--by the synonym great:
asserting that long is still used in the sense of great, in the north of England; and quoting
the Scotch proverb, "Between you and the long day be it," where we talk of the great day of
judgment. May not this be the meaning of the name Long Friday, which was almost invariably
used by our Saxon forefathers for what we now call Good Friday? The commentators on the Prayer
Book, who all confess themselves ignorant of the real meaning of the term, absurdly suggest
that it was so called from the great length of the services on that day; or else, from the
length of the fast which preceded. Surely, The Great Friday, the Friday on which the great
work of our redemption was completed, makes better sense?

T.E.L.L.

Hip, hip, Hurrah!--Originally a war cry, adopted by the stormers of a German town, wherein
a great many Jews had taken their refuge. The place being sacked, they were all put to the
sword, under the shouts of, Hierosolyma est perdita! From the first letter of those words (H.e.p.)
an exclamation was contrived. We little think, when the red wine sparkles in the cup, and soul-stirring
toasts are applauded by our Hip, hip, hurrah! that we record the fall of Jerusalem, and the
cruelty of Christians against the chosen people of God.

JANUS DOUSA.

Under the Rose (Vol. i., p. 214.).--Near Zandpoort, a village in the vicinity of Haarlem, Prince
William of Orange, the third of his name, had a favourite hunting-seat, called after him the
Princenbosch, now more generally known under the designation of the Kruidberg. In the neighbourhood
of these grounds there was a little summer-house, making part, if I recollect rightly, of an
Amsterdam burgomaster's country place, who resided there at the times I speak of. In this pavilion,
it is said, and beneath a stucco rose, being one of the ornaments of the ceiling, William III.
communicated the scheme of his intended invasion in England to the two burgomasters of Amsterdam
there present. You know the result.

Can the expression of "being under the rose" date from this occasion, or was it merely owing
to coincidence that such an ornament protected, as it were, the mysterious conversation to
which England owes her liberty, and Protestant Christendom the maintenance of its rights?

JANUS DOUSA.

Huis te Manpadt.

Albanian Literature.--Bogdano, Pietro, Archivescovo di Scopia, L'Infallibile Verita della Cattolica
Fede, in Venetia, per G. Albrizzi, MDXCI, is I think much older than any Albanian book mentioned
by Hobhouse. The same additional characters are used which occur in the later publications
of the Propaganda, in two parts, pp. 182. 162.

F.Q.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

BIBLIOGRAPHICAL QUERIES.

1. Has anything recently transpired which could lead bibliographers to form an absolute decision
with regard to the "unknown" printer who used the singular letter R which is said to have originated
with Finiguerra in 1452? That Mentelin was the individual seems scarcely credible; and there
is a manifest difference between his type and that of the anonymous printer of the editio princeps
of Rabanus Maurus, De Universo, the copy of which work (illuminated, ruled, and rubricated)
now before me was once in Heber's possession; and it exhibits the peculiar letter R, which
resembles an ill-formed A, destitute of the cross stroke, and supporting a round O on its reclined
back. (Panzer, i. 78.; Santander, i. 240.)

2. Is it not quite certain that the acts and decrees of the synod of Würtzburg, held in the
year 1452, were printed in that city previously to the publication of the Breviarium Herbiplense
in 1479? The letter Q which is used in the volume of these acts is remarkable for being of
a double semilunar shape; and the type, which is very Gothic, is evidently the same as that
employed in an edition of other synodal decrees in Germany about the year 1470.

3. When and where was the Liber de Laudibus gloriosissime Dei genitricis Marie semper Virginis,
by Albertus Magnus, first printed? I do not mean the supposititious work, which is often confounded
with the other one; but that which is also styled Super Evangelium Missus est Quæstiones. And
why are these Questions invariably said to be 230 in number, when there are 275 chapters in
the book? Beughem asserts that the earliest edition is that of Milan in 1489 (Vid. Quetif et
Echard, i. 176.), but what I believe to be a volume of older date is "sine ullâ notâ;" and
a bookseller's observation respecting it is, that it is "very rare, and unknown to De Bure,
Panzer, Brunet, and Dibdin." {324}

4. Has any discovery made as to the author of the extraordinary 4to. tract, Oracio querulosa
contra Inuasores Sacerdotum? According to the Crevenna Catalogue (i. 85.), the work is "inconnu
à tous les bibliographes." Compare Seemiller, ii. 162.; but the copy before me is not of the
impression described by him. It is worthy of notice, that at signature A iiiij the writer declares,
"nostris jam temporibus calchographiam, hoc est impressioram artem, in nobilissima Vrbanie
germe Maguncia fuisse repertam."

5. Are we to suppose that either carelessness or a love of conjectures was the source of Chevillier's
mistake, not corrected by Greswell (Annals of Paris. Typog., p. 6.), that signatures were first
introduced, anno 1476, by Zarotus, the printer, at Milan? They may doubtless be seen in the
Opus Alexandride Ales super tertium Sententiarum, Venet. 1475, a book which supplies also the
most ancient instance I have met with of a "Registrum Chartarum." Signatures, however, had
a prior existence; for they appear in the Mammetractus printed at Beron Minster in 1470 (Meermau,
ii. 28.; Kloss, p. 192.), but they were omitted in the impression of 1476. Dr. Cotton (Typ.
Gaz., p. 66.), Mr. Horne (Introd. to Bibliog., i. 187. 317), and many others, wrongly delay
the invention or adoption of them till the year 1472.

6. Is the edition of the Fasciculus Temporum, set forth at Cologne by Nicolaus de Schlettstadt
in 1474, altogether distinct from that which is confessedly "omnium prima," and which was issued
by Arnoldus Ther Huernen in the same year? If it be, the copy in the Lambeth library, bearing
date 1476, and entered in pp. 1, 2. of Dr. Maitland's very valuable and accurate List, must
appertain to the third, not the second, impression. To the latter this Louvain reprint of 1476
is assigned in the catalogue of the books of Dr. Kloss (p. 127.), but there is an error in
the remark that the "Tabula" prefixed to the editio princeps is comprised in eight leaves,
for it certainly consists of nine.

7. Where was what is probably a copy of the second edition of the Catena Aurea of Aquinas printed?
The folio in question, which consists of 417 unnumbered leaves, is an extremely fine one, and
I should say that it is certainly of German origin. Seemiller (i. 117.) refers it to Esslingen,
and perhaps an acquaintance with its water-marks would afford some assistance in tracing it.
Of these a rose is the most common, and a strigilis may be seen on folio 61. It would be difficult
to persuade the proprietor of this volume that it is of so modern a date as 1474, the year
in which what is generally called the second impression of this work appeared.

8. How can we best account for the mistake relative to the imaginary Bologna edition of Ptolemy's
Cosmography in 1462, a copy of which was in the Colbert library? (Leuglet du Fresnoy, Méth.
pour étud. l'Hist., iii. 8., à Paris, 1735.) That it was published previously to the famous
Mentz Bible of this date is altogether impossible; and was the figure 6 a misprint for 8? or
should we attempt to subvert it into 9? The editio princeps of the Latin version by Angelus
is in Roman letter, and is a very handsome specimen of Vicenza typography in 1475, when it
was set forth "ab Hermano Leuilapide," alias Hermann Lichtenstein.

9. If it be true, as Dr. Cotton remarks in his excellent Typographical Gazetteer, p. 22., that
a press was erected at Augsburg, in the monastery of SS. Ulric and Afra, in the year 1472,
and that Anthony Sorg is believed to have been the printer, why should we be induced to assent
to the validity of Panzer's supposition that Nider's Formicarius did not make its appearance
there until 1480? It would seem to be more than doubtful that Cologne can boast of having produced
the first edition, A.D. 1475/7; and it may be reasonably asserted, and an examination of the
book will abundantly strengthen the idea, that the earliest impression is that which contains
this colophon, in which I would dwell upon the word "editionem" (well known to the initiated):
"Explicit quintus ac totus formicarii liber uxta editionem fratris Iohannis Nider," &c., "Impressum
Auguste per Anthonium Sorg."

10. In what place and year was Wilhelmi Summa Viciorum first printed? Fabricius and Cave are
certainly mistaken when they say Colon. 1479. In the volume, which I maintain to be of greater
antiquity, the letters c and t, s and t, are curiously united, and the commencement of it is:
"Incipit summa viciorum seu tractatus moral' edita [sic] a fratre vilhelmo episcopo lugdunes.
ordinsq. fratrû predicator." The description given by Quetif and Echard (i. 132.) of the primary
impression of Perault's book only makes a bibliomaniac more anxious for information about it:
"in Inc. typ. absque loco anno et nomine typographi, sine numeris reclamat. et majusculis."

11. Was Panormitan's Lectura super primo Decretalium indubitably issued at Venice, prior to
the 1st of April, 1473? and if so, does it contain in the colophon these lines by Zovenzonius,
which I transcribe from a noble copy bearing this date?

  "Abbatis pars prima notis que fulget aliemis
  Est vindelini pressa labore mei:
  Cuius ego ingenium de vertice palladis ortum
  Crediderim. veniam tu mihi spira dabis."

12. Is it not unquestionable that Heroldt's Promptuarium Exemplorum was published at least
as early as his Sermones? The type in both works is clearly identical, and the imprint in the
latter, at the end of Serm. cxxxvi., vol. ii., is Colon. 1474, an edition unknown to very nearly
all bibliographers. For instance, Panzer and Denis commence with that of Rostock, in 1476;
Laire {325} with that of Cologne, 1478; and Maittaire with that of Nuremberg, in 1480. Different
statements have been made as to the precise period when this humble-minded writer lived. Altamura
(Bibl. Domin., pp. 147. 500.) places him in the year 1400. Quetif and Echard (i. 762.), Fabricius
and Mansi (Bibl. Med. et inf. Latin.), prefer 1418, on the unstable ground of a testimony supposed
to have proceeded from the author himself; for whatever confusion or depravation may have been
introduced into subsequent impressions, the editio princeps, of which I have spoken, does not
present to our view the alleged passage, viz., "à Christo autem transacti sunt millequadringenti
decem et octo anni," but most plainly, "M.cccc. & liij. anni." (Serm. lxxxv., tom. ii.) To
this same "Discipulus" Oudin (iii. 2654.), and Gerius in the Appendix to Cave (p. 187.), attribute
the Speculorum Exemplorum, respecting which I have before proposed a Query; but I am convinced
that they have confounded the Speculum with the Promptuarium. The former was first printed
at Deventer, A.D. 1481, and the compiler of it enters upon his prologue in the following striking
style: "Impressoria arte jamdudum longe lateque per orbem diffusa, multiplicatisque libris
quarumcunque fere materiarum," &c. He then expresses his surprise at the want of a good collection
of Exempla; and why should we determine without evidence that he must have been Heroldus?

R.G.

       *       *       *       *       *

FAIRFAX'S TASSO.

In a copy of Fairfax's Godfrey of Bulloigne, ed. 1600 (the first), which I possess, there occurs
a very curious variorum reading of the first stanza of the first book. The stanza, as it is
given by Mr. Knight in his excellent modern editions, reads thus:

  "The sacred armies and the godly knight,
  That the great sepulchre of Christ did free,
  I sing; much wrought his valour and foresight,
  And in that glorious war much suffer'd he;
  In vain 'gainst him did hell oppose her might,
  In vain the Turks and Morians armed be;
    His soldiers wild, to brawls and mutines prest,
    Reduced he to peace, so heaven him blest."

By holding up the leaf of my copy to the light, it is easy to see that the stanza stood originally
as given above, but a cancel slip printed in precisely the same type as the rest of the book
gives the following elegant variation:

  "I sing the warre made in the Holy Land,
  And the Great Chiefe that Christ's great tombe did free:
  Much wrought he with his wit, much with his hand,
  Much in that braue atchieument suffred hee:
  In vaine doth hell that Man of God withstand,
  In vaine the worlds great princes armed bee;
    For heau'n him fauour'd; and he brought againe
    Vnder one standard all his scatt'red traine."

Queries.--1. Does the above variation occur in any or many other copies of the edition of 1600?

2. Which reading is followed in the second old edition?

T.N.

Demerary, September 11. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

MINOR QUERIES.

Jeremy Taylor's Ductor Dubitantium.--Book I. chap. 2. Rule 8. § 14.--

    "If he (the judge) see a stone thrown at his brother judge, as happened
    at Ludlow, not many years since."

(The first ed. was published in 1660). Does any other contemporary writer mention this circumstance?
or is there any published register of the assizes of that time?

Ibid. Chap. 2. Rule 3. § 32.--

    "The filthy gingran."

Apparently a drug or herb. Can it be identified, or its etymology pointed out?

Ibid. §. 50.--

    "That a virgin should conceive is so possible to God's power, that it
    is possible in nature, say the Arabians."

Can authority for this be cited from the ancient Arabic writers?

A.T.

First Earl of Roscommon.--Can you or any of your correspondents put me on any plan by which
I may obtain some information on the following subject? James Dillon, first Earl of Roscommon,
married Helen, daughter of Sir Christopher Barnwell, by whom he had seven sons and six daughters;
their names were Robert, Lucas, Thomas, Christopher, George, John, Patrick. Robert succeeded
his father in 1641, and of his descendants and those of Lucas and Patrick I have some accounts;
but what I want to know is, who are the descendants of Thomas (particularly), or of any of
the other three sons?

Lodge, in his Peerage, very kindly kills all the sons, Patrick included; but it appears that
he did not depart this life until he had left issue, from whom the late Earl had his origin.
If Lodge is thus wrong in one case, he may be in others, and I have reason to believe that
Thomas left a son settled in a place in Ireland called Portlick.

FRANCIS.

St. Cuthbert.--The body of St. Cuthbert, as is well known, had many wanderings before it found
a magnificent resting-place at Durham. Now, in an anonymous History of the Cathedral Church
of Durham, without date, we have a very particular account of the defacement of the shrine
of St. {326} Cuthbert, in the reign of Henry VIII. The body was found "lying whole, uncorrupt,
with his face bare, and his beard as of a fortnight's growth, with all the vestments about
him as he accustomed to say mass withal." The vestments are described as being "fresh, safe,
and not consumed." The visitors "commanded him to be carried into the Revestry, till the king's
pleasure concerning him was further known; and upon the receipt thereof the prior and monks
buried him in the ground under the place where his shrine was exalted." Now, there is a tradition
of the Benedictines (of whose monastery the cathedral was part) that on the accession of Elizabeth
the monks, who were apprehensive of further violence, removed the body in the night-time from
the place where it had been buried to some other part of the building. This spot is known only
to three persons, brothers of the order; and it is said that there are three persons who have
this knowledge now, as communicated from previous generations.

But a discovery was made in 1827 of the remains of a body in the centre of the spot where the
shrine stood, with various relics of a very early period and it was asserted to be the body
of St. Cuthbert. This, however, has not been universally assented to, and Mr. Akerman, in his
Archæological Index, has--

    "The object commonly called St. Cuthbert's Cross" (though the
    designation has been questioned), "found with human remains and other
    relics of the Anglo-Saxon period, in the Cathedral of Durham in
    1827."--p. 144.

There does seem considerable discrepancy in the statements of the remains found in 1827 and
the body deposited 1541.

I will conclude with asking, Is there any evidence to confirm the tradition of the Benedictines?

J.R.N.

Vavasour of Haslewood.--Bells in Churches.--It is currently reported in Yorkshire that three
curious privileges belong to the chief of the ancient Roman Catholic family of Vavasour of
Haslewood:

1. That he may ride on horseback into York Minster.

2. That he may specially call his house a castle.

3. That he may toll a bell in his chapel, notwithstanding any law prohibiting the use of bells
in places of worship not in union with the Church of England.

Is there any foundation for this report; and what is the real story? Is there still a law against
the use of bells as a summons to divine services except in churches?

A.G.

Alteration of Title-pages.--Among the advertisements in the last Quarterly and Edinburgh Reviews,
is one which replies to certain criticisms on a work. One of these criticisms was a stricture
upon its title. The author states that the reviewer had a presentation copy, and ought to have
inquired into the title under which the book was sold to the public before he animaverted upon
the connexion between the title and the work. It seems then that, in this instance, the author
furnished the Reviews with a title-page differing from that of the body of his impression,
and thinks he has a right to demand that the reviewers should suppose such a circumstance probable
enough to make it imperative upon them to inquire what the real title was. Query, Is such a
practice common? Can any of your readers produce another instance?

M.

Weights for Weighing Coins.--A correspondent wishes to know at what period weights were introduced
for weighing coins.

He has met with two notices on the subject in passages of Cottonian manuscripts, and would
be glad of farther information.

In a MS. Chronicle, Cotton. Otho B. xiv.--

    "1418. Novæ bilances instituuntur ad ponderanda aurea Numismata."

In another Cottonian MS., Vitell. A. i., we read--

    "1419. Here bigan gold balancis."

H.E.

Shunamitis Poema.--Who was the author of a curious small 8vo. volume of 179 pages of Latin
and English poems, commencing with "Shunamitis Poema Stephani Duck Latine redditum?"

The last verse of some commendatory verses prefixed point out the author as the son of some
well-known character:

  "And sure that is the most distinguish'd fame,
  Which rises from your own, not father's name.
  London, 21 April, 1738."

My copy has no title-page: a transcript of it would oblige.

E.D.

Lachrymatories.--In many ancient places of sepulture we find long narrow phials which are called
lachrymatories, and are supposed to have been receptacles for tears: can you inform me on what
authority this supposition rests?

J.H.C.

Egg-cups used by the Romans.--That the Romans used egg-cups, and of a shape very similar to
our own, the ruins at Pompeii and other places afford ocular demonstration. Can you tell me
by what name they called them?

J.H.C.

Sir Oliver Chamberlaine.--In Miss Lefanu's Memoirs of Mrs. Frances Sheridan, the celebrated
authoress of Sidney Biddulph, Nourjahad, and The Discovery, and mother of Richard Brinsley
Sheridan, it is stated that "her grandfather, Sir {327} Oliver Chamberlaine," was an "English
baronet." The absence of his name in any of the Baronetages induces the supposition, however,
that he had received only the honour of knighthood; and the connexion of his son with Dublin,
that the statement of Whitelaw and Walsh, in their history of that city, may be more correct,--viz.
that "Sir Oliver Chamberlaine was descended from a respectable English family that had been
settled in Dublin since the Reformation." I should be glad to be informed on this point, and
also respecting the paternity of this Sir Oliver, who is not only distinguished as one of the
progenitors of the Sheridans, but also of Dr. William Chamberlaine, the learned author of the
Abridgement of the Laws of Jamaica, which he for some time administered, as one of the judges
in that island; and of his grandson, the brave, but ill-fated, Colonel Chamberlaine, aide-de-camp
to the president Bolivar.

J.R.W.

October 10. 1850.

Meleteticks.--In Boyle's Occasional Reflections (ed. 1669), he uses the word meleteticks (pp.
8. 38.) to express the "way and kind of meditation" he "would persuade." Was this then a new
word coined by him, and has it been used by any other writer?

P.H.F.

Luther's Hymns.--"In the midst of life we are in death," &c., in the Burial Service, is almost
identical with one of Luther's hymns, the words and music of which are frequently closely copied
from older sources. Whence?

F.Q.

"Pair of Twises."--What was the article, carried by gentlemen, and called by Boyle (R.B.),
in his Occasional Reflections (edit. 1669, p. 180.), "a pair of twises," out of which he drew
a little penknife?

P.H.F.

Countermarks on Roman Coin.--Several coins in my cabinet of Tiberius, Trajan, &c. bear the
stamp NCAPR; others have an open hand, &c. I should be glad to know the reason of this practice,
and what they denote.

E.S.T.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES.

GAUDENTIO DI LUCCA.

(Vol. ii., p. 247. 298.)

The Memoirs of Sig. Gaudentio di Lucca have very generally been ascribed to Bishop Berkeley.
In Moser's Diary, written at the close of the last century (MS. penes me), the writer says,--

    "I have been reading Berkeley's amusing account of Sig. Gaudentio.
    What an excellent system of patriarchal government is there developed!"

See the Retrospective Review, vol iv. p. 316., where the work is also ascribed to the celebrated
Bishop Berkeley.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

In the corrigenda and addenda to Kippis's Biographia Britannica, prefixed to vol. iii. is the
following note, under the head of Berkeley:

    "On the same authority [viz., that of Dr. George Berkeley, the bishop's
    son,] we are assured that his father did not write, and never read
    through, the Adventures of Signor Gaudentio di Lucca. Upon this head,
    the editor of the Biographia must record himself as having exhibited
    an instance of the folly of building facts upon the foundation of
    conjectural reasonings. Having heard the book ascribed to Bishop
    Berkeley, and seen it mentioned as his in catalogues of libraries, I
    read over the work again under this impression, and fancied that I
    perceived internal arguments of its having been written by our
    excellent prelate. I was even pleased with the apprehended ingenuity of
    my discoveries. But the whole was a mistake, which, whilst it will be a
    warning to myself, may furnish an instructive lesson to others. At the
    same time, I do not retract the character which I have given of the
    Adventures of Signor Gaudentio di Lucca. Whoever was the author of
    that performance, it does credit to his abilities and to his heart."

After this decisive testimony of Bishop Berkeley's son, accompanied by the candid confession
of error on the part of the editor of the Biographia Britannica, the rumour as to Berkeley's
authorship of Gaudentio ought to have been finally discredited. Nevertheless, it seems still
to maintain its ground: it is stated as probable by Dunlop, in his History of Fiction; while
the writer of a useful Essay on "Social Utopias," in the third volume of Chambers's Papers
for the People, No. 18., treats it as an established fact.

L.

In addition to the remarks of your correspondent L., I may state that the first edition in
1737, 8vo., contains 335 pages, exclusive of the publisher's address, 13 pages. It is printed
for T. Cooper, at the Globe, in Paternoster Row. The second edition in 1748, 8vo., contains
publisher's address, 12 pages; the work itself 291 pages.

I find no difference between the two editions, except that in the first the title is The Memoirs
of Sigr. Gaudentio di Lucca; and in the second, The Adventures of Sigr. Gaudentio di Lucca;
and that in the second the notes are subjoined to each page, while in the first they follow
the text in smaller type, as Remarks of Sigr. Rhedi. The second edition is--

    "Printed for W. Innys in Paternoster Row, and R. Manby and H.S. Cox on
    Ludgate Hill, and sold by M. Cooper in Paternoster Row."

With respect to the author, it must be observed that there is no evidence whatever to justify
its being attributed to Bishop Berkeley. Clara Reeve, in her Progress of Romana, 1786, 8vo.,
mentions him as having been supposed to be the author; {328} but her authority seems only to
have been the anonymous writer in the Gentleman's Magazine, vol. xlvii. p. 13., referred to
by your correspondent. The author of an elaborate review of the work in the Retrospective Review,
vol. iv., advocates Bishop Berkeley's claim, but gives no reasons of any validity; and merely
grounds his persuasion upon the book being such as might be expected from that great writer.
He was, however, at least bound to show some conformity in style, which he does not attempt.
On the other hand, we have the positive denial of Dr. George Berkeley, the bishop's son (Kippis's
Biog. Brit., vol. iii., addenda to vol. ii.), which, in the absence of any evidence to the
contrary, seems to be quite sufficient.

In a letter signed C.H., Gent. Mag., vol. vii. p. 317., written immediately on the appearance
of the work, the writer observes:--

    "I should have been very glad to have seen the author's name prefixed
    to it: however, I am of opinion that it its very nearly related to no
    less a hand than that which has so often, under borrowed names,
    employed itself to amuse and trifle mankind, in their own taste, out of
    their folly and vices."

This appears to point at Swift; but it is quite clear that he could not be the author, for
very obvious reasons.

A correspondent of the Gent. Mag., who signs his initials W.H. (vol. lv. part 2. p. 757), states
"on very good authority" that the author was--

    "Barrington, a Catholic priest, who had chambers in Gray's Inn, in
    which he was keeper of a library for the use of the Romish clergy. Mr.
    Barrington wrote it for amusement, in a fit of the gout. He began it
    without any plan, and did not know what he should write about when be
    put pen to paper. He was author of several pamphlets, chiefly
    anonymous, particularly the controversy with Julius Bate on Elohim."

Of this circumstantial and sufficiently positive attribution, which is dated October, 1785,
no contradiction ever appeared that I am aware of. The person intended is S. Berington, the
author of--

    "Dissertations on the Mosaical Creation, Deluge, building of Babel, and
    Confusion of Tongues, &c." London: printed for the Author, and sold by
    C. Davis in Holborn, and T. Osborn in Gray's Inn, 1750, 8vo., pages
    466, exclusive of introduction, 12 pages.

On comparing Gaudentio di Lucca with this extremely curious work, there seems a sufficient
similarity to bear out the statement of the correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine, W.H.
The author quoted in the Remarks of Sigr. Rhedi, and in the Dissertations, are frequently the
same, and the learning is of the same cast in both. In particular, Bochart is repeatedly cited
in the Remarks and in the Dissertations. The philosophical opinions appear likewise very similar.

On the whole, unless some strong reason can be given for questioning the statement of this
correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine, I conceive that S. Berington, of whom I regret that
so little is known, must be considered to be the author of The Memoirs of Gaudentio di Lucca.

JAS. CROSSLEY.

Manchester, October 7. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

ENGLEMANN'S BIBLIOTHECA SCRIPTORUM CLASSICORUM.

(Vol. ii., pp. 296. 312.)

The sort of defence, explanation, or whatever it may be called, founded upon usage, and offered
by ANOTHER FOREIGN BOOKSELLER, is precisely what I wanted to get out, if it existed, as I suspected
it did.

If your correspondent be accurate as to Engelmann, it appears that no wrong is done to him;
it is only the public which is mystified by a variety of title-pages, all but one containing
a suppression of the truth, and the one of which I speak containing more.

I now ask you to put in parallel columns extracts from the title given by Engelmann with the
substitutes given in that which I received.

"Schriftsteller--welche vom            "Classics ... that have Jahre 1700 bis zu Ende des 
appeared in Germany and the Jahres 1846 besonders in               adjacent countries up to
the Deutschland gedruckt worden            end of 1846." sind."

I do not think it fair towards Mr. Engelmann, whose own title is so true and so precise, to
take it for certain, on anonymous authority, that he sanctioned the above paraphrase. According
to the German, the catalogue contains works from 1700 to 1846, published especially in Germany;
meaning, as is the fact, that there are some in it published elsewhere. According to the English,
all classics printed in Germany, and all the adjacent countries, in all times, are to be found
in the catalogue. I pass over the implied compliment to this country, namely, that while a
true description is required in Germany, a puff both in time and space is wanted for England.
I dwell on the injurious effect of such alterations to literature, and on the trouble they
give to those who wish to be accurate. It is a system I attack, and not individuals. There
is no occasion to say much, for publicity alone will do what is wanted, especially when given
in a journal which falls under the eyes of those engaged in research. I hope those of your
contributors who think as I do, will furnish you from time to time with exposures; if, as a
point of form, a Query be requisite, they can always end with, Is this right?

A. DE MORGAN.

October 14. 1850. 234.)

I should have been content to leave the question of the meaning of the word delighted as it
stands in your columns, my motive, so kindly appreciated by Mr. SINGER, in raising the discussion
being, by such means to arrive at the true meaning of the word, but that the remarks of L.B.L.
(p. 234.) recall to my mind a canon of criticism which I had intended to communicate at an
earlier period as useful for the guidance of commentators in questions of this nature. This
want of attention (without attributing to it such fatal consequences) appears to me evident
in L.B.L.'s remarks, ably as he analyses the passage. I give him credit for the faith that
enabled him to discover a sense in it as it stands; but when he says that it is perfectly intelligible
in its natural sense, it appears to me that he cannot be aware of the innumerable explanations
that have been offered of this very clear passage. The source of his error is plainly referable
to the cause I have pointed out.

It is quite true that, in the passage referred to, the condition of the body before and after
death is contrasted, but this is merely incidental. The natural antithesis of "a sensible warm
motion" is expressed in "a kneaded clod" and "cold obstruction;" but the terms of the other
half of the passage are not quite so well balanced. On the other hand, it is not the contrasted
condition of each, but the separation of the body and spirit--that is, death--which is the
object of the speaker's contemplation. Now with regard to the meaning of the term delighted,
L.B.L. says it is applied to the spirit "not in its state after death, but during life." If
such had not been the view instinctively taken by all classes of readers, there could have
been no difficulty about the meaning of the word.

As a proof that this view of the construction is correct, let L.B.L. substitute for "delighted
spirit", spirit no longer delighted, and he will find that it gives precisely the sense which
he deduces from the passage as it stands. If this be true, then, according to his view, the
negative and affirmative of a proposition may be used indifferently, in the same time and circumstances
giving exactly the same meaning.

MR. SINGER furnishes another instance (Vol. ii., p. 241.) of the value of my canon. I think
there can be no doubt that his explanation of the meaning of the word eisell is correct; but
if it were not, any way of reading the passage in which it occurs would lead me to the conclusion
that it could not be a river.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

September 18. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE COLLAR OF ESSES.

I shall look with interest to the documents announced by Dr. ROCK (Vol. ii., p. 280.), which
in his mind connect the Collar of Esses with the "Sanctus, Sanctus, Sanctus" of the Salisbury
liturgy: but hitherto I have found nothing in any of the devices of livery collars that partakes
of religious allusion. I am well aware that many of the collars of knighthood of modern Europe,
headed by the proud order of the Saint Esprit, display sacred emblems and devices. But the
livery collars were perfectly distinct from collars of knighthood. The latter, indeed, did
not exist until a subsequent age: and this was one of the most monstrous of the popular errors
which I had to combat in my papers in the Gentleman's Magazine. A Frenchman named Favyn, at
the commencement of the seventeenth century, published {330} a folio book on Orders of Knighthood,
and, giving to many of them an antiquity of several centuries,--often either fabulous or greatly
exaggerated,--provided them all with imaginary collars, of which he exhibits engravings. M.
Favyn's book was republished in English, and his collars have been handed down from that time
to this, in all our heraldic picture-books. This is one important warning which it is necessary
to give any one who undertakes to investigate this question. From my own experience of the
difficulty with which the mind is gradually disengaged from preconceived and prevailing notions
on such points, which it has originally adopted as admitting of no question, I know it is necessary
to provide that others should not view my arguments through a different medium to myself. And
I cannot state too distinctly, even if I incur more than one repetition, that the Collar of
Esses was not a badge of knighthood nor a badge of personal merit; but it was a collar of livery;
and the idea typified by livery was feudal dependence, or what we now call party. The earliest
livery collar I have traced is the French order of cosses de geneste, or broomcods: and the
term "order", I beg to explain, is in its primary sense exactly equivalent to "livery:" it
was used in France in that sense before it came to be applied to orders of knighthood. Whether
there was any other collar of livery in France, or in other countries of Europe, I have not
hitherto ascertained; but I think it highly probable that there was. In England we have some
slight glimpses of various collars, on which it would be too long here to enter; and it is
enough to say, that there were only two of the king's livery, the Collar of Esses and the Collar
of Roses and Suns. The former was the collar of our Lancastrian kings, the latter of those
of the house of York. The Collar of Roses and Suns had appendages of the heraldic design which
was then called "the king's beast," which with Edward IV. was the white lion of March, and
with Richard III. the white boar. When Henry VII. resumed the Lancastrian Collar of Esses,
he added to it the portcullis of Beaufort. In the former Lancastrian regions it had no pendant,
except a plain or jewelled ring, usually of the trefoil form. All the pendant badges which
I have enumerated belong to secular heraldry, as do the roses and suns which form the Yorkist
collar. The letter S is an emblem of a somewhat different kind; and, as it proves, more difficult
to bring to a satisfactory solution than the symbols of heraldic blazon. As an initial it will
bear many interpretations--it may be said, an indefinite number, for every new Oedipus has
some fresh conjecture to propose. And this brings me to render the account required by Dr.
Rock of the reasons which led me to conclude that the letter S originated with the office of
Seneschallus or Steward. I must still refer to the Gentleman's Magazine for 1842, or to the
republication of my essays which I have already promised, for fuller details of the evidence
I have collected; but its leading results, as affecting the origin of this device, may be stated
as follows:--It is ascertained that the Collar of Esses was given by Henry, Earl of Derby,
afterwards King Henry IV., during the life-time of his father, John of Ghent, Duke of Lancaster.
It also appears that the Duke of Lancaster himself gave a collar, which was worn in compliment
to him by his nephew King Richard II. In a window of old St. Paul's, near the duke's monument,
his arms were in painted glass, accompanied with the Collar of Esses; which is presumptive
proof that his collar was the same as that of his son, the Earl of Derby. If, then, the Collar
of Esses was first given by this mighty duke, what would be his meaning in the device? My conjecture
is, that it was the initial of the title of that high office which, united to his vast estates,
was a main source of his weight and influence in the country,--the office of Steward of England.
This, I admit, is a derivation less captivating in idea than another that has been suggested,
viz. that S was the initial of Souveraine which is known to have been a motto subsequently
used by Henry IV., and which might be supposed to foreshadow the ambition with which the House
of Lancaster affected the crown. But the objection to this is, that the device is traced back
earlier than the Lancastrian usurpation can be supposed to have been in contemplation. It might
still be the initial of Souveraine, if John of Ghent adopted it in allusion to his kingdom
of Castille: but, because he is supposed to have used it, and his son the Earl of Derby certainly
used it, after the sovereignty of Castille had been finally relinquished, but also before either
he or his son can be supposed to have aimed at the sovereignty of their own country, therefore
it is that, in the absence of any positive authority, I adhere at present to the opinion that
the letter S was the initial of Seneschallus or Steward.

JOHN GOUGH NICHOLS.

P.S.--Allow me to put a Query to the antiquaries of Scotland. Can any of them help me to the
authority from which Nich. Upton derived his livery collar of the King of Scotland "de gormettis
fremalibus equorum?"--J.G.N.

Collar of SS (Vol. ii., pp. 89. 194. 248. 280.).--I am surprised that any doubt should have
arisen about this term, which has evidently no spiritual or literary derivation from the initial
letters of Sovereign, Sanctus, Seneschallus, or any similar word. It is (as MR. ELLACOMBE hints,
p. 248.) purely descriptive of the mechanical mode of forming the chain, not by round or closed
links, but by hooks alternately deflected into the shape of esses; thus, . Whether chains so
made (being more susceptible of ornament than other forms of links) may not have been in special
use for particular {331} purposes, I will not say; but I have no doubt that the name means
no more than that the links were in the shape of the letter S.

C.

       *       *       *       *       *

SIRLOIN.

Several correspondents who treat of Lancashire matters do not appear to be sufficiently careful
to ascertain the correct designations of the places mentioned in their communications. In a
late number Mr. J.G. NICHOLS gave some very necessary corrections to CLERICUS CRAVENSIS respecting
his note on the "Capture of King Henry VI." (Vol. ii., p. 181.); and I have now to remind H.C.
(Vol. ii., p. 268.) that "Haughton Castle" ought to be "Hoghton Tower, near Blackburn, Lancashire."
Hoghton Tower and Whittle Springs have of late been much resorted to by pic-nic parties from
neighbouring towns; and from the interesting scenery and splendid prospects afforded by these
localities, they richly deserve to be classed among the lions of Lancashire. It is not improbable
that the far-famed beauties and rugged grandeur of "The Horr" may, for the time, have rendered
it impossible for H.C. to attend to orthography and the simple designation "Hoghton Tower,"
and hence the necessity for the present Note.

The popular tradition of the knighting of the Sirloin has found its way into many publications
of a local tendency, and, amongst the rest, into the graphic Traditions of Lancashire, by the
late Mr. Roby, whose premature death in the Orion steamer we have had so recently to deplore.

Most probably Mr. Roby's view of the matter is substantially correct; for although tradition
never fails to preserve the remembrance of transactions too trivial, or perhaps too indistinct
for sober history to narrate, the existence of a tradition does not necessarily prove, or even
require, that the myth should have had its foundation in fact.

Had the circumstance really taken place as tradition prescribes, it would probably have obtained
a greater permanency than oral recital; for during the festivities at Hoghton Tower, on the
occasion of the visit of the "merrie monarch", there was present a gentleman after Captain
Cuttle's own heart, who would most assuredly have made a note of it. This was Nicholas Assheton,
Esq., of Downham, whose Journal, as Dr. Whitaker well observes, furnishes an invaluable record
of "our ancestors of the parish of Whalley, not merely in the universal circumstances of birth,
marriage, and death, but acting and suffering in their individual characters; their businesses,
sports, bickerings, carousings, and, such as it was, religion." This worthy chronicler thus
describes the King's visit:--

    "August 15. (1617). The king came to Preston; ther, at the crosse, Mr.
    Breares, the lawyer, made a speche, and the corporn presented him with
    a bowle; and then the king went to a banquet in the town-hall, and soe
    away to Houghton: ther a speche made. Hunted, and killed a stagg. Wee
    attend on the lords' table.

    "August 16, Houghton. The king hunting: a great companie: killed affore
    dinner a brace of staggs. Verie hot: soe hee went in to dinner. Wee
    attend the lords' table, abt four o'clock the king went downe to the
    Allome mynes, and was ther an hower, and viewed them p[re]ciselie, and
    then went and shott at a stagg, and missed. Then my Lord Compton had
    lodged two brace. The king shott again, and brake the thigh-bone. A
    dogg long in coming, and my Lo. Compton shott agn and killed him. Late
    in to supper.

    "Aug. 17, Houghton. Wee served the lords with biskett, wyne, and
    jellie. The Bushopp of Chester, Dr. Morton, p[re]ched before the king.
    To dinner. Abt four o'clock, ther was a rush-bearing and piping affore
    them, affore the king in the middle court; then to supp. Then abt ten
    or eleven o'clock, a maske of noblemen, knights, gentlemen, and
    courtiers, affore the king, in the middle round, in the garden. Some
    speeches: of the rest, dancing the Huckler, Tom Bedlo, and the Cowp
    Justice of Peace.

    "Aug. 18. The king went away abt twelve to Lathome."

The journalist who would note so trivial a circumstance as the heat of the weather, was not
likely to omit the knighting of the Sirloin, if it really occurred; and hence, in the absence
of more positive proof, we are disposed to take Mr. Roby's view of the case, and treat it as
one of the thousand and one pleasant stories which "rumour with her hundred tongues" ever circulates
amongst the peasantry of a district where some royal visit, or {332} other unexpected memorable
occurrence, has taken place.

But this is not the only "pleasant conceit" of which the "merrie monarch" is said to have delivered
himself during his visit to Hoghton Tower. On the way from Preston his attention was attracted
by a huge boulder stone which lay in the roadside, and was still in existence not a century
ago. Stop! there be letters thereon: unto what purport?" Several voices recited the inscription:--

  "Turn me o're, an I'le tel thee plaine."

"My saul," said the king, "ye shall gang roun' to yere place again: these country gowks mauna
ken the riddle without the labour." As a natural consequence, Sir Richard Hoghton's "great
companie" would require a correspondingly great quantity of provisions; and the tradition in
the locality is, that the subsequent poverty of the family was owing to the enormous expenses
incurred under this head; the following characteristic anecdote being usually cited in confirmation
of the current opinion. During one of the hunting excursions the king is said to have left
his attendants for a short time, in order to examine a numerous herd of horned cattle then
grazing in what are now termed the "Bullock Pastures," most of which had probably been provided
for the occasion. A day or two afterwards, being hunting in the same locality, he made inquiry
respecting the cattle, and was told, in no good-humoured way, by a herdsman unacquainted with
his person, that they were all gone to feast the beastly king and his gluttonous company. "By
my saul," exclaimed the king, as he left the herdsman, "then 'tis e'en time for me to gang
too:" and accordingly, on the following morning, he set out for Lathom House.

In conclusion, allow me to ask the correspondents to the "NOTES AND QUERIES," what is meant
by "dancing the Huckler, Tom Bedlo, and the Cowp Justice of Peace?"

T.T. WILKINSON.

Burnley, Lancashire, Sept. 21. 1850.

Sirloin.-In Nichols's Progresses of King James the First, vol. iii. p. 401., is the following
note:--

    "There is a laughable tradition, still generally current in Lancashire,
    that our knight-making monarch, finding, it is presumed, no undubbed
    man worthy of the chivalric order, knighted at the banquet in Hoghton
    Tower, in the warmth of his honour-bestowing liberality, a loin of
    beef, the part ever since called the sirloin. Those who would credit
    this story have the authority of Dr. Johnson to support them, among
    whose explanations of the word sir in his dictionary, is that it is
    'a title given to the loin of beef, which one of our kings knighted in
    a fit of good humour.' 'Surloin,' says Dr. Pegge (Gent. Mag., vol.
    liv. p. 485.), 'is, I conceive, if not knighted by King James as is
    reported, compounded of the French sur, upon, and the English loin,
    for the sake of euphony, our particles not easily submitting to
    composition.

JOHN J. DREDGE.

Was not a loin of pork part of James the First's proposed banquet for the devil?

K.I.P.B.T.

       *       *       *       *       *

RIOTS OF LONDON.

The reminiscences of your correspondent SENEX concerning the riots of London in the last century
form an interesting addition to the records of those troubled times; but in all these matters
correctness as to dates and facts are of immense importance. The omission of a date, or the
narration of events out of their proper sequence, will sometimes create vast and most mischievous
confusion in the mind of the reader. Thus, from the order in which SENEX has stated his reminiscences,
a reader unacquainted with the events of the time will be likely to assume that the "attack
on the King's Bench prison" and "the death of Allen" arose out of, and formed part and parcel
of, the Gordon riots of 1780, instead of one of the Wilkes tumults of 1768. By the way, if
SENEX was "personally either an actor or spectator" in this outbreak, he fully establishes
his claim to the signature he adopts. I quite agree with him that monumental inscriptions are
not always remarkable for their truth, and that the one in this case may possibly be somewhat
tinged with popular prejudice or strong parental feeling; but, at all events, there can be
but little doubt that poor Allen, whether guilty or innocent, was shot by a soldier of the
Scotch regiment, be his name what it may; and further, the deed was not the effect of a random
shot fired upon the mob,--for the young man was chased into a cow-house, and shot by his pursuer,
away from the scene of conflict. {333}

Noorthouck, who published his History of London, 1773, thus speaks of the affair:--

    "The next day, May 10. (1768,) produced a more fatal instance of rash
    violence against the people on account of their attachment to the
    popular prisoner (Wilkes) in the King's Bench. The parliament being to
    meet on that day to open the session, great numbers of the populace
    thronged about the prison from an expectation that Mr. W. would on that
    occasion recover his liberty; and with an intention to conduct him to
    the House of Commons. On being disappointed, they grew tumultuous, and
    an additional party of the third regiment of Guards were sent for. Some
    foolish paper had been stuck up against the prison wall, which a
    justice of the peace, then present, was not very wise in taking notice
    of, for when he took it down the mob insisted on having it from him,
    which he not regarding, the riot grew louder, the drums beat to arms,
    the proclamation was read, and while it was reading, some stones and
    bricks were thrown. William Allen, a young man, son of Mr. Allen,
    keeper of the Horse Shoe Inn in Blackman Street, and who, as appeared
    afterwards, was merely a quiet spectator, being pursued along with
    others, was unfortunately singled out and followed by three soldiers
    into a cow-house, and shot dead! A number of horse-grenadiers arrived,
    and these hostile measures having no tendency to disperse the crowd,
    which rather increased, the people were fired upon, five or six were
    killed, and about fifteen wounded; among which were two women, one of
    whom afterwards died in the hospital."

The author adds,--

    "The soldiers were next day publicly thanked by a letter from the
    Secretary-at-War in his master's name. McLaughlin, who actually killed
    the inoffensive Allen, was withdrawn from justice and could never be
    found, so that though his two associates Donald Maclaine and Donald
    Maclaury, with their commanding officer Alexander Murray, were
    proceeded against for the murder, the prosecution came to nothing and
    only contributed to heighten the general discontent."

With respect to the monument in St. Mary's, Newington, I extract the following from the Oxford
Magazine for 1769, p. 39.:--

    "Tuesday, July 25. A fine large marble tombstone, elegantly finished,
    was erected over the grave of Mr. Allen, junr., in the church-yard of
    St. Mary, Newington, Surry. It had been placed twice before, but taken
    away on some disputed points. On the sides are the following
    inscriptions:--

    North Side.

    Sacred to the Memory of
    William Allen,

    An Englishman of unspotted life and amiable disposition, [who was
    inhumanely murdered near St. George's Fields, the 10th day of May,
    1768, by the Scottish detachment from the army.][1]

    "His disconsolate parents, inhabitants of this parish, caused this
    tomb to be erected to an only son, lost to them and the world, in his
    twentieth year, as a monument of his virtues and their affections."

At page 53. of the same volume is a copperplate representing the tomb. On one side appears
a soldier leaning on his musket. On his cap is inscribed "3rd Regt.;" his right hand points
to the tomb; and a label proceeding from his mouth represents him saying, "I have obtained
a pension of a shilling a day only for putting an end to thy days." At the foot of the tomb
is represented a large thistle, from the centre of which proceeds the words, "Murder screened
and rewarded."

Accompanying this print are, among other remarks, the following:--

    "It was generally believed that he was m----d by one Maclane, a
    Scottish soldier of the 3d Regt. The father prosecuted, Ad----n
    undertook the defence of the soldier. The solicitor of the Treasury,
    Mr. Nuthall, the deputy-solicitor, Mr. Francis, and Mr. Barlow of the
    Crown Office, attended the trial, and it is said, paid the whole
    expence for the prisoner out of the Treasury, to the amount of a very
    considerable sum. The defence set up was, that young Allen was not
    killed by Maclane, but by another Scottish soldier of the same
    regiment, one McLaughlin, who confessed it at the time to the justice,
    as the justice says, though he owns he took no one step against a
    person who declared himself a murderer in the most express terms....
    The perfect innocence of the young man as to the charge of being
    concerned in any riot or tumult, is universally acknowledged, and a
    more general good character is nowhere to be found. This McLaughlin
    soon made his escape, therefore was a deserter as well as a murtherer,
    yet he has had a discharge sent him with an allowance of a shilling a
    day."

Maclane was most probably the "Mac" alluded to by SENEX; but his account differs in so many
respects from cotemporaneous records that I have ventured to trespass somewhat largely upon
your space. I may add, that I by no means agree in the propriety of erasing a monumental inscription
of more than eighty years' existence without some much stronger proof of its falsehood; for
I quite coincide with the remarks of Rev. D. Lysons, in his allusion to this monument (Surrey,
p. 393.), that

    "Allen was illegally killed, whether he was concerned in the riots or
    not, as he was shot apart from the mob at a time when he might, if
    necessary, have been apprehended and brought to justice."

E.B. PRICE.

September 30. 1850.

The Rev. Dr. John Free[2] preached a sermon on the above occasion (which was printed) from
the {334} 24th chapter of Leviticus, 21st and 22nd verses, "He that killeth a man," &c.; and
he boldly and fearlessly denominates the act as a murder, and severely reprehends those in
authority who screened and protected the murderer. The sermon is of sixteen pages, and there
is an appendix of twenty-six pages, in which are detailed various depositions, and all the
circumstances connected with the catastrophe.

§ N.

Your correspondent SENEX will find in Malcolm's Anecdotes of London (Vol. ii., p. 74.), "A
summary of the trial of Donald Maclane, on Tuesday last, at Guildford Assizes, for the murder
of William Allen, Jun., on the 10th of May last, in St. George's Fields."

R. BARKER, JUN.

A long account of this lamentable transaction may be found in every magazine eighty-two years
since. The riot took place in St. George's Fields, May 10. 1768, and originated in the cry
of "Wilkes and Liberty."

GILBERT.

[Footnote 1: A foot-note informs us that "a white-wash is put over these lines between the
crotchets."]

[Footnote 2: Dr. Free was of Christ Church, Oxford, and perhaps some of your readers may know
where his biography is.]

       *       *       *       *       *

MEANING OF "GRADELY."

(Vol. ii., p. 133.)

For the origin of this word, A.W.H. may refer to Brocket's Glossary of North Country Words,
where he will find--

    "Gradely, decently, orderly. Sax. grad, grade, ordo. Rather, Mr.
    Turner says, from Sax. gradlie upright; gradely in Lanc., he
    observes, is an adjective simplifying everything respectable. The
    Lancashire people say, our canny is nothing to it."

The word itself is very familiar to me, as I have often received a scolding for some boyish,
and therefore not very wise or orderly prank, in these terns:--"One would think you were not
altogether gradely," or, as it was sometimes varied into, "You would make one believe you were
not right in your head;" meaning, "One would think you had not common sense."

H. EASTWOOD.

Ecclesfield.

Gradely.--This word is not only used in Yorkshire, but also very much in Lancashire, and the
rest of the north of England. I have always understood it to mean "good," "jolly," "out and
out." Its primary meaning is "orderly, decently." (See Richardson's Dictionary.) The French
have grade; It. and Sp., grado; Lat. gradus.

AREDJID KOOEZ.

Gradely.--This word, in use in Lancashire and Yorkshire, means grey-headedly, and denotes such
wisdom as should belong to old age. A child is admonished to do a thing gradely, i.e. with
the care and caution of a person of experience.

E.H.

Gradely.--In Webster's and also in Richardson's Dictionaries it is defined, "orderly, decently."
It is a word in common use in Lancashire and Yorkshire, and also Cheshire. A farmer will tell
his men to do a thing gradely, that is, "properly, well."

G.W.N.

Gradely.--In Carr's Craven Dialect appears "Gradely, decently." It is also used as an adjective,
"decent, worthy, respectable."

2. Tolerably well, "How isto?" "Gradely." Fr. Gré, "satisfaction"; à mon gré.

S.N.

Gradely.--Holloway[3] derives gradely from the Anglo-Saxon Grade, a step, order, and defines
its meaning, "decently." He, however, fixes its paternity in the neighbouring county of York.

In Collier's edition of Tim Bobbin it is spelt greadly, and means "well, right, handsomely."

    "I connaw tell the greadly, boh I think its to tell fok by."--p. 42.

    "So I seete on restut meh, on drank meh pint o ele; boh as I'r naw
    greadly sleekt, I cawd for another," &c.--p. 45.

    "For if sitch things must be done greadly on os teh aught to bee,"
    &c.--p. 59.

Mr. Halliwell[4] defined it, "decently, orderly, moderately," and gives a recent illustration
of its use in a letter addressed to Lord John Russell, and distributed in the Manchester Free
Trade Procession. It is dated from Bury, and the writer says to his lordship,--

    "Dunnot be fyert, mon, but rapt eawt wi awt uts reef, un us Berry
    foke'll elp yo as ard as we kon. Wayn helps Robdin, un wayn elp yo, if
    yoan set obeawt yur work gradely."

Gradely.--I think this word is very nearly confined to Lancashire. It is used both as an adjective
and adverb. As an adjective, it expresses only a moderate degree of approbation or satisfaction;
as an adverb, its general force is much greater. Thus, used adjectively in such phrases as
"a gradely man," "a gradely crop," &c., it is synonymous with "decent." In answer to the question,
"How d'ye do?" it means, "Pretty well," "Tolerable, thank you."

Adverbially it is (1.) sometimes used in sense closely akin to that of the adjective. Thus
in "Behave yourself gradely," it means "properly, decently." But (2.) most frequently it is
precisely equivalent to "very;" as in the expressions "A gradely fine day," "a gradely good
man"--which last is a term of praise by no means applicable to the mere gradely man, or, as
such a one is most commonly described, a "gradely sort of man."

Though one might have preferred a Saxon origin for it, yet in default of such it seems most
natural to connect it with the Latin gradus, especially as the word grade, from which it is
immediately formed, has a handy English look about it, that would soon naturalise it amongst
us. Gradely {335} then would mean "orderly, regular, according to degree."

The difference in intensity of meaning between the adjective and the adverb seems analogous
to that between the adjectives proper, regular, &c., and the same words when used in the vulgar
way as adverbs.

G.P.

[Footnote 3: Dictionary of Provincialisms.]

[Footnote 4: Dictionary of Provincial Words.]

       *       *       *       *       *

PASCAL AND HIS EDITOR BOSSUT.

(Vol. ii., p. 278.)

Although I am not afraid of the fate with which that unfortunate monk met, of whom it is said,--

  "Pro solo puncto caruit Martinus Asello,"

yet a blunder is a sad thing, especially when the person who is supposed to commit it attempts
to correct others.

Now the printer of the "NOTES AND QUERIES" has introduced, in my short remark on Pascal, the
very error which has led the author of the article in the British Quarterly Review, as well
as many others, to mistake the Bishop of Meaux for the editor of Pascal's works. Once more,
that unfortunate editor is BOSSUT, not BOSSUET; and if it may appear to some that the difference
of one letter in a name is not of much consequence, yet it is from an error as trifling as
this that people of my acquaintance confound Madame de Staël with Madame de Staal-Delauney,
in spite of chronology and common sense. Again, by the leave of the Christian Remembrancer
(vol. xiii. no. 55.), the elegant and accomplished scholar to whom we owe the only complete
text of Pascal's thoughts, is M. Faugère, not Fougère. All these are minutiæ; but the chapter
of minutiæ is an important one in literary history.

Another remarkable question which I feel a wish to touch upon before closing this communication,
is that of impromptus. Your correspondent MR. SINGER (p. 105.) supposes Malherbe the poet to
have been "ready at an impromptu." But, to say the least, this is rather doubtful, unless the
extemporaneous effusions of Malherbe were of that class which Voiture indulged in with so much
success at the Hôtel de Rambouillet--sonnets and epigrams leisurely prepared for the purpose
of being fired off in some fashionable "ruelle" of Paris. Malherbe is known to have been a
very slow composer; he used to say to Balzac that ten years' rest was necessary after the production
of a hundred lines: and the author of the Christian Socrates, himself rather too fond of the
file, after quoting this fact, adds in a letter to Consart:

    "Je n'ai pas besoin d'un si long repos après un si petit travail. Mais
    aussi d'attendre de moi cette heureuse facilité qui fait produire des
    volumes à M. de Scudéry, ce serait me connaître mal, et me faire une
    honneur que je ne mérite pas."

Malherbe certainly had a most happy influence on French poetry; he checked the ultra-classical
school of Ronsard, and began that work of reformation afterwards accomplished by Boileau.

As I have mentioned Voiture's name, I shall add a very droll "soi-disant" impromptu of his,
composed to ridicule Mademoiselle Chapelain, the sister of the poet. Like her brother, she
was most miserly in her habits, and not distinguished by that virtue which some say is next
to godliness.

  "Vous qui tenez incessamment
    Cent amans dedans votre manche,
  Tenez-les au moins proprement,
    Et faites qu'elle soit plus blanche.

  "Vous pouvez avecque raison,
    Usant des droits de la victoire,
  Mettre vos galants en prison;
    Mais qu'elle ne soit pas si noire.

  "Mon coeur, qui vous est bien dévot,
    Et que vous réduisez en cendre,
  Vous le tenez dans un cachot
    Comme un prisonnier qu'on va pendre.

  "Est-ce que, brûlant nuit et jour,
    Je remplis ce lieu de fumée,
  Et que le feu de mon amour
    En a fait une cheminée?"

GUSTAVE MASSON.

Hadley, near Barnet.

       *       *       *       *       *

KONGS-SKUGG-SIO.

(Vol. ii., p. 298.)

The author of the Kongs-skugg-sio is unknown, but the date of it has been pretty clearly made
out by Bishop Finsen and others. (V. Finsen, Dissertatio Historica de Speculo Regali, 1766.)
There is only one complete edition of this remarkable work, viz. that published at Soröe in
1768, in 4to. Bishop Finsen maintains the Kongs-skugg-sio to have been written from 1154 to
1164. Ericksen believes it not to be older than 1184; while Suhm and Eggert Olafsen do not
allow it to be older than the thirteenth century. Rafn, and the modern editors of the Grönlands
Historiske Mindesmærker, p. 266., vol. iii., accept the date given by Finsen as the true one.
From the text of the work we learn that it was written in Norway, by a young man, a son of
one of the leading and richest men there, who had been on terms of friendship with several
kings, and had lived much, or at least had travelled much, in Helgeland. Rafn and others believe
the work to have been written by Nicolas, the son of Sigurd Hranesön, who was slain by the
Birkebeiners on the 8th of September, 1176. Their reasons for coming to this conclusion are
given at full length in the work above quoted. {336}

The whole of the Kongs-skugg-sio is well worthy of being translated into English. It may, indeed,
in many respects, be considered as the most remarkable work of the old northerns.

EDWARD CHARLTON.

Newcastle-on-Tyne, Oct 7. 1850.

If F.Q. will look into Halfdan Einersen's edition of Kongs-skugg-sio, Soröe, 1768, the first
time it was printed, he will find in the editor's preliminary remarks all that is known of
the date and origin of the work. The author is unknown, but that he was a Northman and lived
in Nummedal, in Norway, and wrote somewhere between 1140 and 1270, or, according to Finsen,
about 1154; and that he had in his youth been a courtier, and afterwards a royal councillor,
we infer from the internal evidence the work itself affords us. Kongs-skugg-sio, or the royal
mirror, deserves to be better known, on account of the lively picture it gives us of the manners
and customs of the North in the twelfth century; the state of the arts and the amount of science
known to the educated. It abounds in sound morals, and its author might have sate at the feet
of Adam Smith for the orthodoxy of his political economy. He is not entirely free from the
credulity of his age and his account of Ireland will match anything to be found in Sir John
Mandeville. Here we are told of an island on which nothing rots, of another on which nothing
dies, of another on one-half of which devils alone reside, of wonderful monsters and animals,
and of miracles the strangest ever wrought. He invents nothing. What he relates of Ireland
he states to have found in books, or to have derived from hearsay. The following extract must
therefore be taken as a specimen of Irish Folk-lore in the twelfth century:--

    "There is also one thing, he says, that will seem wonderful, and it
    happened in the town which is called Kloena [Cloyne]. In that town
    there is a church which is dedicated to the memory of a holy man called
    Kiranus. And there it happened one Sunday, as the people were at
    prayers and heard mass, that there descended gently from the air an
    anchor, as if it had been cast from a ship, for there was a cable to
    it, and the fluke of the anchor caught in the arch of the church-door,
    and all the people went out of church, and wondered, and looked up into
    the air after the cable. There they saw a ship floating above the
    cable, and men on board; and next they saw a man leap overboard, and
    dive down to the anchor to free it. He appeared, from the motions he
    made with both hands and feet, like a man swimming in the sea. And when
    he reached the anchor, he endeavoured to loosen it, when the people ran
    forwards to seize the man. But the church in which the anchor stuck
    fast had a bishop's chair in it. The bishop was present on this
    occasion, and forbade the people to hold the man, and said that he
    might be drowned just as if in water. And immediately he was set free
    he hastened up to the ship, and when he was on board, they hauled up
    the cable and disappeared from men's sight; but the anchor has since
    laid in the church as a testimony of this."

CORKSCREW.

       *       *       *       *       *

GOLD IN CALIFORNIA.

(Vol. ii., p. 132.)

E.N.W. refers to Shelvocke's voyage of 1719, in which reference is made to the abundance of
gold in the soil of California. In Hakluyt's Voyages, printed in 1599-1600, will be found much
earlier notices on this subject. California was first discovered in the time of the Great Marquis,
as Cortes was usually called. There are accounts of these early expeditions by Francisco Vasquez
Coronada, Ferdinando Alarchon, Father Marco de Niça, and Francisco de Ulloa, who visited the
country in 1539 and 1540. It is stated by Hakluyt that they were as far to the north as the
37th degree of latitude, which would be about one degree south of St. Francisco. I am inclined,
however, to believe from the narrations themselves that the Spanish early discoveries did not
extend much beyond the 34th degree of latitude, being little higher than the Peninsular or
Lower California. In all these accounts, however, distinct mention is made of abundance of
gold. In one of them it is stated that the natives used plates of gold to scrape the perspiration
off their bodies!

The most curious and distinct account, however, is that given in "The famous voyage of Sir
Francis Drake into the South Sea, &c. in 1577", which will be found in the third volume of
Hakluyt, page 730., et seq. I am tempted to make some extracts from this, and the more so because
a very feasible claim might be based upon the transaction in favour of our Sovereign Lady the
Queen. At page 737. I find:

    "The 5th day of June (1579) being in 43 degrees wards the pole Arctike,
    we found the ayre so colde, that our men being grievously pinched with
    the same, complained of the extremitie thereof, and the further we
    went, the more the colde increased upon us. Whereupon we thought it
    best for that time to seeke the land, and did so, finding it not
    mountainous, but low plaine land, till we came within thirty degrees
    toward the line. In which height it pleased God to send us into a faire
    and good baye, with a good winde to enter the same. In this baye wee
    anchored."

A glance at the map will show that "in this baye" is now situated the famous city of San Francisco.

Their doings in the bay are then narrated, and from page 738.

    "Our Generall called this countrey Nova Albion, and that for two
    causes; the one in respect of the white bankes and cliffes, which lie
    towards the sea, and the other, because it might have some affinities
    with our countrey in name, which sometime was so called."

Then comes the curious statement:

    "There is no part of earth heere to be taken up, wherein there is not
    some probable show of gold or silver."

The narrative then goes on to state that formal possession was taken of the country by putting
up a "monument" with "a piece of sixpence of current English money under the plate," &c.

Drake and the bold cavaliers of that day probably found that it paid better to rob the Spaniard
of the gold and silver ready made in the shape of "the Acapulco galleon," or such like, than
to sift the soil of the Sacramento for its precious grains. At all events, the wonderful richness
of the "earth" seems to have been completely overlooked or forgotten. So little was it suspected,
until the Americans acquired the country at the peace with Mexico, that in the fourth volume
of Knight's National Cyclopædia, published early in 1848, in speaking of Upper California,
it is said, "very little mineral wealth has been met with"! A few months after, intelligence
reached Europe how much the reverse was the case.

T.N.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE DISPUTED PASSAGE PROM THE TEMPEST.

(Vol. ii., pp. 259. 299.)

When the learning and experience of such gentlemen as MR. SINGER and MR. COLLIER fail to conclude
a question, there is no higher appeal than to plain common sense, aided by the able arguments
advanced on each side. Under these circumstances, perhaps you will allow one who is neither
learned nor experienced to offer a word or two by way of vote on the meaning of the passage
in the Tempest cited by MR. SINGER. It appears to me that to do full justice to the question
the passage should be quoted entire, which, with your permission, I will do.

  "Fer. I forget;
  But these sweet thoughts do even refresh my labour(s),
  Most busy(l)est when I do it."

The question appears to be whether "most busy" applies to "sweet thoughts" or to Ferdinand,
and whether the pronoun "it" refers to the act of forgetting or to "labour(s);" and I must
confess that, to me, the whole significancy of the passage depends upon the idea conveyed of
the mind being "most busy" while the body is being exerted. Every man with a spark of imagination
must many a time have felt this. In the most essential particular, therefore, I think MR. SINGER
is right in his correction but at the same time agreeing with MR. COLLIER, that it is desirable
not to interfere with the original text further than is absolutely necessary, I think the substitution
of "labour" for "labours" is of questionable expediency. What is the use of the conjunction
"but" if not to connect the excuse for the act of forgetting with the act itself?

Without intending to follow MR. COLLIER through the course of his argument, I should like to
notice one or two points. The usage of Shakspeare's day admitted many variations from the stricter
grammatical rules of our own; but no usage ever admitted such a sentence as this,--for though
elliptically expressed, MR. COLLIER treats it as a sentence,--

  "Most busy, least when I do it."

This is neither grammar nor sense: and I persist in believing that Shakspeare was able to construct
an intelligible sentence according to rules as much recognised by custom then as now.

But, indeed, does not MR. COLLIER virtually admit that the text is inexplicable in his very
attempt to explain it? He sums up by saying "that in fact, his toil is no toil, and that when
he is 'most busy' he 'least does it,'" which is precisely the reverse of what the text says,
if it express any meaning at all. I will agree with him in preferring the old text to any other
text where it gives a perfect meaning; but to prefer it here, when the omission of a single
letter produces an image at once {338} noble and complete, would, to my mind, savour more of
superstition than true worship.

P.S. It should be observed that MR. COLLIER'S "least" is as much of an alteration of the original
text as MR. SINGER'S "busyest", the one adding and the other omittng a letter. The folio of
1632, where it differs front the first folio, will hardly add to the authority of MR. COLLIER
himself.

SAMUEL HICKSON.

Oct. 10. 1850.

If one, who is but a charmed listener to Shakspeare, may presume to offer an opinion to practised
interpreters, I should suggest to MR. SINGER and MR. COLLIER, another and a totally different
reading of the passage in discussion by them from the exquisite opening scene of the 3d Act
of the Tempest.

There can be little doubt that "most busy" applies more poetically to thoughts than to labours;
and, in so much, MR. SINGER'S reading is to be commended. But it is equally true that, by adhering
to the early text, MR. COLLIER'S school of editing has restored force and beauty to many passages
which had previously been outraged by fancied improvements, so that his unflinching support
of the original word in this instance is also to be respected. But may not both be combined?
I think they may, by understanding the passage in question as though a transposition had taken
place between the words "least" and "when".

  "Most busy when least I do it,"

or,--

  "Most busy when least employed."

forming just the sort of verbal antithesis of which the poet was so fond.

An actual transposition of the words may have taken place through the fault of the early printers;
but even if the present order be preserved, still the transposed sense is, I think, much less
difficult than the forced and rather contradictory meaning contended for by MR. COLLIER. Has
not the pause in Ferdinand's labour been hitherto too much overlooked? What is it that has
induced him to forget his task? Is it not those delicious thoughts, most busy in the pauses
of labour, making those pauses still more refreshing and renovating?

Ferdinand says--

  "I forget,"--

and then he adds, by way of excuse,--

  "But the sweet thoughts do even refresh my labours,
  Most busy when least I do it."

More busy in thought when idle, than in labour when employed. The cessation from labour was
favourable to the thoughts that made it endurable.

Malone quarrelled with the word "but", for which he would have substituted "and" or "for".
But in the apologetic sense which I would confer upon the last two lines of Ferdinand's speech,
the word "but", at their commencement, becomes not only appropriate but necessary.

A.E.B.

Leeds, October 8. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

"LONDON BRIDGE IS BROKEN DOWN."

(Vol. ii., p. 258.)

Your correspondent T.S.D. does not remember to have seen that interesting old nursery ditty
"London Bridge is broken down" printed, or even referred to in print. For the edification then
of all interested in the subject, I send you the following.

The old song on "London Bridge" is printed in Ritson's Gammer Gurton's Garland, and in Halliwell's
Nursery Rhymes of England; but both copies are very imperfect. There are also some fragments
preserved in the Gentleman's Magazine for September, 1823 (vol. xciii. p. 232.), and in the
Mirror for November 1st of the same year. From these versions a tolerably perfect copy has
been formed, and printed in a little work, for which I am answerable, entitled Nursery Rhymes,
with the Tunes to which they are still sung in the Nurseries of England. But the whole ballad
has probably been formed by many fresh additions in a long series of years, and is, perhaps,
almost interminable when received in all its different versions.

The correspondent of the Gentleman's Magazine remarks, that "London Bridge is broken down"
is an old ballad which, more than seventy years previous, he had heard plaintively warbled
by a lady who was born in the reign of Charles II., and who lived till nearly that of George
II. Another correspondent to the same magazine, whose contribution, signed "D.," is inserted
in the same volume (December, p. 507.), observes, that the ballad concerning London Bridge
formed, in his remembrance, part of a Christmas carol, and commenced thus:--

  "Dame, get up and bake your pies,
  On Christmas Day in the morning."

The requisition, he continues, goes on to the dame to prepare for the feast, and her answer is--

  "London Bridge is broken down,
  On Christmas Day in the morning."

The inference always was, that until the bridge was rebuilt some stop would be put to the dame's
Christmas operations; but why the falling of a part of London Bridge should form part of a
Christmas carol it is difficult to determine.

A Bristol correspondent, whose communication is inserted in that delightful volume the Chronicles
of London Bridge (by Richard Thomson, of the London Institution), says,--

"About forty years ago, one moonlight night, in a street in Bristol, his attention was attracted
by dance {339} and chorus of boys and girls, to which the words of this ballad gave measure.
The breaking down of the bridge was announced as the dancers moved round in a circle, hand
in hand; and the question, 'How shall we build it up again?' was chanted by the leader, whilst
the rest stood still."

Concerning the antiquity of this ballad, a modern writer remarks,--

    "If one might hazard a conjecture concerning it, we should refer its
    composition to some very ancient date, when, London Bridge lying in
    ruins, the office of bridge master was vacant, and his power over the
    river Lea (for it is doubtless that river which is celebrated in the
    chorus to this song) was for a while at an end. But this, although the
    words and melody of the verses are extremely simple, is all uncertain."

If I might hazard another conjecture, I would refer it to the period when London Bridge was
the scene of a terrible contest between the Danes and Olave of Norway. The last-named work
contains, in the notes, some excellent remarks upon the poetry of the Danes, and its great
influence upon our early national muse.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT.

    [T.S.D.'s inquiry respecting this once popular nursery song has brought
    us a host of communications; but none which contain the precise
    information upon the subject which is to be found in DR. RIMBAULT's
    reply. TOBY, who kindly forwards the air to which it was sung, speaks
    of it as a "'lullaby song,' well-known in the southern part of Kent and
    in Lincolnshire."

    E.N.W. says it is printed in the collection of Nursery Rhymes
    published by Burns, and that he was born and bred in London, and that
    it was one of the nursery songs he was amused with. NOCAB ET AMICUS,
    two old fellows of the Society of Antiquaries, do not doubt that it
    refers to some event preserved in history, especially, they add, as we
    have a faint recollection "of a note, touching such an event, in an
    almost used-up English history, which was read in our nursery by an
    elder brother, something less than three-fourths of a century since.
    And we have also a shrewd suspicion that the sequel of the song has
    reference to the reconstruction of that fabric at a later date."

    J.S.C. has sent us a copy of the song; and we are indebted for another
    copy to AN ENGLISH MOTHER, who has accompanied it with notices of some
    other popular songs, notices which at some future opportunity we shall
    lay before our readers.--ED.]

       *       *       *       *       *

ARABIC NUMERALS.

(Vol. ii., pp. 27. 61.)

I must apologise for adding anything to the already abundant articles which have from time
to time appeared in "NOTES AND QUERIES" on this interesting subject; I shall therefore confine
myself to a few brief remarks on the form of each character, and, if possible, to show from
what alphabets they are derived:--

1. This most natural form of the first numeral is the first character in the Indian, Arabic,
Syriac, and Roman systems.

2. This appears to be formed from the Hebrew [Hebrew: b], which, in the Syriac, assumes nearly
the form of our 2; the Indian character is identical, but arranged vertically instead of horizontally.

3. This is clearly derived from the Indian and Arabic forms, the position being altered, and
the vertical stroke omitted.

4. This character is found as the fourth letter in the Phoenician and ancient Hebrew alphabets:
the Indian is not very dissimilar.

5. and 6. These bear a great resemblance to the Syriac Heth and Vau (a hook). When erected,
the Estrangelo-Syriac Vau is precisely the form of our 6.

7. This figure is derived from the Hebrew [Hebrew: z], zayin, which in the Estrangelo-Syriac
is merely a 7 reversed.

8. This figure is merely a rounded form of the Samaritan Kheth (a travelling scrip, with a
string tied round thus, [Character]). The Estrangelo-Syriac [Character] also much resembles it.

9. Identical with the Indian and Arabic.

0. Nothing; vacuity. It probably means the orb or boundary of the earth.--10. is the first
boundary, [Hebrew: tchwm], Tekum, [Greek: Deka], Decem, "terminus." Something more yet remains
to be said, I think, on the names of the letters. Cf. "Table of Alphabets" in Gesenius, Lex.,
ed. Tregelles, and "NOTES AND QUERIES," Vol. i., p. 434.

E. S. T.

Arabic Numerals.--With regard to the subject of Arabic numerals, and the instance at Castleacre
(Vol. ii., pp. 27. 61.), I think I may safely say that no archæologist of the present day would
allow, after seeing the original, that it was of the date 1084, even if it were not so certain
that these numerals were not in use at that time. I fear "the acumen of Dr. Murray" was wasted
on the occasion referred to in Mr. Bloom's work. It is a very far-fetched idea, that the visitor
must cross himself to discover the meaning of the figures; not to mention the inconvenience,
I might say impossibility, {340} of reading them after he had turned his back upon them,--the
position required to bring them into the order 1084. It is also extremely improbable that so
obscure a part of the building should be chosen for erecting the date of the foundation; nor
is it likely that so important a record would be merely impressed on the plaister, liable to
destruction at any time. Read in the most natural way, it makes 1480: but I much doubt its
being a date at all. The upper figure resembles a Roman I; and this, with the O beneath, may
have been a mason's initials at some time when the plaister was renewed: for that the figures
are at least sixty years later than the supposed date, Mr. Bloom confesses, the church not
having been built until then.

X.P.M.

       *       *       *       *       *

CAXTON'S PRINTING-OFFICE.

(Vol. ii., pp. 99. 122. 142. 187. 233.)

I confess, after having read MR. J.G. NICHOLS' critique in a recent number of the "NOTES AND
QUERIES," relative to the locality of the first printing-press erected by Caxton in this country,
I am not yet convinced that it was not within the Abbey of Westminster. From MR. NICHOLS' own
statements, I find that Caxton himself says his books were "imprynted" by him in the Abbey;
to this, however, MR. NICHOLS replies by way of objection, "that Caxton does not say in the
church of the Abbey."

On the above words of Caxton "in the Abbey of Westminster," Mr. C. Knight, in his excellent
biography of the old printer, observes, "they leave no doubt that beneath the actual roof of
some portion of the Abbey he carried on his art." Stow says "that Caxton was the first that
carried on his art in the Abbey." Dugdale, in his Monasticon, speaking of Caxton, says, "he
erected his office in one of the side chapels of the Abbey." MR. NICHOLS, quoting from Stow,
also informs us that printing-presses were, soon after the introduction of the art, erected
in the Abbey of St. Albans, St. Augustin at Canterbury, and other monasteries; he also informs
us that the scriptorium of the monasteries had ever been the manufactory of books, and these
places it is well known formed a portion of the abbeys themselves, and were not in detached
buildings similar to the Almonry at Westminster, which was situated some two or three hundred
yards distant from the Abbey. I think it very likely, when the press was to supersede the pen
in the work of book-making, that its capabilities would be first tried in the very place which
had been used for the object it was designed to accomplish. This idea seems to be confirmed
by the tradition that a printer's office has ever been called a chapel, a fact which is beautifully
alluded to by Mr. Creevy in his poem entitled The Press:--

  "Yet stands the chapel in yon Gothic shrine,
  Where wrought the father of our English line,
  Our art was hail'd from kingdoms far abroad,
  And cherish'd in the hallow'd house of God;
  From which we learn the homage it received
  And how our sires its heavenly birth believed.
  Each printer hence, howe'er unblest his walls,
  E'en to this day, his house a chapel calls."

Mr. Nichols acknowledges that what he calls a vulgar error was current and popular, that in
some part of the Abbey Caxton did erect his press, yet we are expected to submit to the almost
unsupported dictum of that gentleman, and renounce altogether the old and almost universal
idea. With respect to his alarm that the vulgar error is about to be further propagated by
an engraving, wherein the mistaken draftsman has deliberately represented the printers at work
within the consecrated walls of the church itself, I may be permitted to say, on behalf of
the painter, that he has erected his press not even on the basement of one of the Abbey chapels,
but in an upper story, a beautiful screen separating the workplace from the more sacred part
of the building.

JOHN CROPP.

       *       *       *       *       *

COLD HARBOUR.

(Vol. i., p. 60.; Vol. ii., p. 159.)

I beg leave to inform you that Yorkshire has its "Cold Harbour," and for the origin of the
term, I subjoin a communication sent me by my father:--

"When a youngster, I was a great seeker for etymologies. A solitary farm-house and demesne
were pointed out to me, the locality of which was termed Cad, or Cudhaber, or Cudharber. Conjectures,
near akin to those now presented, occurred to me. I was invited to inspect the locality. I
dined with the old yeoman (aged about eighty) who occupied the farm. He gave me the etymology.
In his earlier days he had come to this farm; a house was not built, yet he was compelled by
circumstances to bring over part of his farming implements, &c. He, with his men-servants,
had no other shelter at the time than a dilapidated barn. When they assembled to eat their
cold provisions, the farmer cried out, 'Hegh lads, but there's cauld (or caud) harbour here.'
The spot had no name previously. The rustics were amused by the farmer's saying. Hence the
locality was termed by them Cold Harbour, corrupted, Cadharber, and the etymon remains to this
day. This information put an end to my enquiries about Cold Harbour."

C.M.J.

Cold Harbour.--The goldfinches which have remained among the valleys of the Brighton Downs
during the winter are called, says Mr. {341} Knox, by the catchers, "harbour birds, meaning
that they have sojourned or harboured, as the local expression is, here during the season."
Does not this, with the fact of a place in Pembroke being called Cold Blow, added to the many
places with the prefix Cold, tend to confirm the supposition that the numerous cold harbours
were places of protection against the winter winds?

A.C.

With regard to Cold Harbour (supposed "Coluber," which is by no means satisfactory), it may
be worth observing that Cold is a common prefix: thus there is Cold Ashton, Cold Coats, Cold
or Little Higham, Cold Norton, Cold Overton, Cold Waltham, Cold St. Aldwins, --coats, --meere,
--well, --stream, and several cole, &c. Cold peak is a hill near Kendall. The latter suggests
to me a Query to genealogists. Was the old baronial name of Peche, Pecche, of Norman origin
as in the Battle Roll? From the fact of the Peak of Derby having been Pech-e antè 1200, I think
this surname must have been local, though it soon became soft, as appears from the rebus of
the Lullingstone family, a peach with the letter é on it. I do not think that k is formed to
similar words in Domesday record.

Caldecote, a name of several places, may require explanation.

AUG. CAMB.

I beg to give you the localities of two "Cold Harbours:" one on the road from Uxbridge to Amersham,
19½ miles from London (see Ordnance Map 7.); the other on the road from Chelmsford to Epping,
13½ miles from the former place (see Ordnance Map No. 1. N.W.).

DISS.

There are several Cold Harbours in Sussex, in Dallington, Chiddingly, Wivelsfield, one or two
in Worth, one S.W. of Bignor, one N.E. of Hurst Green, and there may be more.

In Surrey there is one in the parish of Bletchingley.

WILLIAM FIGG.

There is a farm called Cold Harbour, near St. Albans, Herts.

S.A.

After the numerous and almost tedious theories concerning Cold Harbours, particularly the "forlorn
hope" of the Coal Depôts in London and elsewhere, permit me to suggest one of almost universal
application. Respecting here-burh, an inland station for an army, in the same sense as a "harbour"
for ships on the sea-coast, a word still sufficiently familiar and intelligible, the question
seems to be settled; and the French "auberge" for an inn has been used as an illustration,
though the first syllable may be doubtful. The principal difficulty appears to consist in the
prefix "Cold;" for why, it may be asked, should a bleak and "cold" situation be selected as
a "harbour"? The fact probably is that this spelling, however common, is a corruption for "COL.".
Colerna, in Wiltshire, fortunately retains the original orthography, and in Anglo-Saxon literally
signifies the habitation or settlement of a colony; though in some topographical works we are
told that it was formerly written "Cold Horne," and that it derives its name from its bleak
situation. This, however, is a mere coincidence; for some of these harbours are in warm sheltered
situations. Sir R.C. Hoare was right when he observed, that these "harbours" were generally
near some Roman road or Roman settlement. It is therefore wonderful that it should not at once
occur to every one conversant with the Roman occupation of this island, that all these "COL-harbours"
mark the settlements, farms, outposts, or garrisons of the Roman colonies planted here.

J.I.

Oxford.

Cold Harbour.--Your correspondent asks whether there is a "Cold Harbour" in every county, &c.
I think it probable, though it may take some time to catalogue them all. There are so many
in some counties, that ten on an average for each would in all likelihood fall infinitely short
of the number. The Roman colonists must have formed settlements in all directions during their
long occupation of so favourite a spot as Britain. "Cold Harbour Farm" is a very frequent denomination
of insulated spots cultivated from time immemorial. These are not always found in cold situations.
Nothing is more common than to add a final d, unnecessarily, to a word or syllable, particularly
in compound words. Instances will occur to every reader, which it would be tedious to enumerate.

J.I.

    After reading the foregoing communications on the subject of the
    much-disputed etymology of COLD HARBOUR, our readers will probably
    agree with us in thinking the following note, from a very distinguished
    Saxon scholar, offers a most satisfactory solution of the question:--

With reference to the note of G.B.H. (Vol. i, p. 60.) as well as to the very elaborate letter
in the "Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries" (the paper in the Archæologia I have not
seen), I would humbly suggest the possibility, that the word Cold or Cole may originally have
been the Anglo-Saxon Col, and the entire expression have designated a cool summer residence
by a river's side or on an eminence; such localities, in short, as are described in the "Proceedings"
as bearing the name of Cold Harbour.

The denomination appears to me evidently the modern English for the A.-S. Col Hereberg. Colburn,
Colebrook, Coldstream, are, no doubt, analagous denominations.

[Greek: PH.]

       *       *       *       *       * {342}

ST. UNCUMBER.

(Vol. ii., p. 286.)

PWCCA, after quoting from Michael Wodde's Dialogue or Familiar Talke the passage in which he
says, "If a wife were weary of her husband she offred otes at Paules in London to St. Uncumber,"
asks "who St. Uncumber was?"

St. Uncumber was one of those popular saints whose names are not to be found in any calendar,
and whose histories are now only to be learned from the occasional allusions to them to be
met with in our early writers,--allusions which it is most desirable should be recorded in
"NOTES AND QUERIES." The following cases, in which mention is made of this saint, are therefore
noted, although they do not throw much light on the history of St. Uncumber.

The first is from Harsenet's Discoverie, &c., p.l34.:

"And the commending himselfe to the tuition of S. Uncumber, or els our blessed Lady."

The second is from Bale's Interlude concerning the Three Laws of Nature, Moses, and Christ:

  "If ye cannot slepe, but slumber,
  Geve Otes unto Saynt Uncumber,
  And Beanes in a certen number
    Unto Saynt Blase and Saynt Blythe."

I will take an early opportunity of noting some similar allusions to Sir John Shorne, St. Withold,
&c.

WILLIAM J. THOMS.

       *       *       *       *       *

HANDFASTING.

(Vol. ii., p. 282.)

JARLTZBRG, in noticing this custom, says that the Jews seem to have had a similar one, which
perhaps they borrowed from the neighbouring nations; at least the connexion formed by the prophet
Hosea (chap. iii., v. 2.) bears strong resemblance to Handfasting. The 3rd verse in Hosea,
as well as the 2nd, should I think be referred to.

Now by consulting our most learned commentators upon the meaning which they put upon these
two verses in connexion with each other, I cannot think that the analogy of JARLTZBERG will
be found correct. In allusion to verse 2, "so I bought her," &c., Bishop Horsley says:

    "This was not a payment in the shape of a dowry; for the woman was his
    property, if he thought fit to claim her, by virtue of the marriage
    already had; but it was a present supply of her necessary wants, by
    which he acknowledged her as his wife, and engaged to furnish her with
    alimony, not ample indeed, but suitable to the recluse life which he
    prescribed to her."

And in allusion, in verse 3., to the words "Thou shall abide for me many days," Dr. Pocock
thus explains the context:

    "That is, thou shalt stay sequestered, and as in a state of widowhood,
    till the time come that I shall be fully reconciled to thee, and shall
    see fit again to receive thee to the privileges of a wife."

Both commentators are here evidently alluding to what occurs after a marriage has actually
taken place. Handfasting takes place before a marriage is consummated.

A chapter upon marriage contracts and ceremonies would form an important and amusing piece
of history. I have not Picart's Religious Ceremonies at hand, but if I mistake not he refers
to many. In Marco Polo's Travels, I find the following singular, and to a Christian mind disgusting,
custom. It is related in section l9.:--

    "These twenty days journey ended, having passed over the province of
    Thibet, we met with cities and many villages, in which, through the
    blindness of idolatry, a wicked custom is used; for no man there
    marrieth a wife that is a virgin; whereupon, when travellers and
    strangers, coming from other places, pass through this country and
    pitch their pavilions, the women of that place having marriageable
    daughters, bring them unto strangers, desiring them to take them and
    enjoy their company as long as they remain there. Thus the handsomest
    are chosen, and the rest return home sorrowful, and when they depart,
    they are not suffered to carry any away with them, but faithfully
    restore them to their parents. The maiden also requireth some toy or
    small present of him who hath deflowered her, which she may show as an
    argument and proof of her condition; and she that hath been loved and
    abused of most men, and shall have many such favours and toys to show
    to her wooers, is accounted more noble, and may on that account be
    advantageously married; and when she would appear most honourably
    dressed, she hangs all her lovers' favours about her neck, and the more
    acceptable she was to many, so much the more honour she receives from
    her countrymen. But when they are once married, they are no more
    suffered to converse with strange men, and men of this country are very
    cautious never to offend one another in this matter."

J.M.G.

Worcester, Oct. 1850.

The curious subject brought forward by J.M.G. under this title, and enlarged upon by JARLTZBERG
(Vol. ii., p. 282.), leads me to trouble you with this in addition. Elizabeth Mure, according
to the History and Descent of the House of Rowallane by Sir William Mure, was made choyce of,
for her excellent beautie and rare virtues, by King Robert II., to be Queen of Scotland; and
if their union may be considered to illustrate in any way the singular custom of Handfasting,
it will be seen {343} from the following extract that they were also married by a priest:--

    "Mr. Johne Lermonth, chapline to Alexander Archbishop of St. Andrews,
    hath left upon record in a deduction of the descent of the House of
    Rowallane collected by him at the command of the said Archbishop (whose
    interest in the familie is to be spoken of heirafter), that Robert,
    Great Stewart of Scotland, having taken away the said Elizabeth Mure,
    drew to Sir Adam her father ane instrument that he should take her to
    his lawful wife, (which myself hath seen saith the collector), as also
    ane testimonie written in latine by Roger Mc Adame, priest of our Ladie
    Marie's chapel (in Kyle), that the said Roger maried Robert and
    Elizabeth forsds. But yrafter durring the great troubles in the reign
    of King David Bruce, to whom the Earl of Rosse continued long a great
    enemie, at perswasion of some of the great ones of the time, the Bishop
    of Glasgow, William Rae by name, gave way that the sd marriage should
    be abrogate by transaction, which both the chief instrument, the Lord
    Duglasse, the Bishope, and in all likelihood the Great Stewart himself,
    repented ever hereafter. The Lord Yester Snawdoune, named Gifford, got
    to wife the sd Elizabeth, and the Earl of Rosse's daughter was maried
    to the Great Stewart, which Lord Yester and Eupheme, daughter to the
    Earle of Rosse, departing near to one time, the Great Stewart, being
    then king, openly acknowledged the first mariage, and invited home
    Elizabeth Mure to his lawfull bed, whose children shortlie yrafter the
    nobility did sweare in parliament to maintaine in the right of
    succession to the croune as the only lawfull heirs yrof."

    "In these harder times shee bare to him Robert (named Johne
    Fairneyear), after Earle of Carrick, who succeeded to the croune;
    Robert, after Earl of Fyffe and Maneteeth, and Governour; and
    Alexander, after Earle of Buchane, Lord Badyenoch; and daughters, the
    eldest maried to Johne Dumbar, brother to the Earl of March, after
    Earle of Murray, and the second to Johne the Whyt Lyon, progenitor of
    the House of Glames, now Earle of Kinghorn."

So much for the marriage of Elizabeth Mure, as given by the historian of the House of Rowallane.
Can any of your readers inform me whether Elizabeth had any issue by her second husband, Lord
Yester Snawdoune? If so, there would be a relationship between Queen Victoria and the Hays,
Marquesses of Tweeddale, and the Brouns, Baronets of Colstoun. One of the latter family received
as a dowry with a daughter of one of the Lords Yester the celebrated WARLOCK PEAR, said to
have been enchanted by the necromancer Hugo de Gifford, who died in 1267, and which is now
nearly six centuries old. In the Lady of the Lake, James Fitz-James is styled by Scott "Snawdon's
knight;" but why or wherefore does not appear, unless Queen Elizabeth Mure had issue by Gifford.
Robert II. was one of three Scottish kings in succession who married the daughters of their
own subjects, and those only of the degree of knights; namely, David Bruce, who married Margaret,
daughter of Sir John Loggie; Robert II., who married Elizabeth, daughter of Sir Adam Mure;
and Robert III., who married Annabell, daughter to Sir John Drummond of Stobhall.

SCOTUS.

       *       *       *       *       *

GRAY'S ELEGY.--DRONING.--DODSLEY'S POEMS.

(Vol. ii., pp. 264. 301.)

I only recur to the subject of Gray's Elegy to remark, that although your correspondents, A
HERMIT AT HAMPSTEAD, and W.S., have given me a good deal of information, for which I thank
them, they have not answered either of my Queries.

I never doubted as to the true reading of the third line of the second stanza of Gray's Elegy,
but merely remarked that in one place the penultimate word was printed drony, and other authorities
droning. With reference to this point, what I wanted to know was merely, whether, in any good
annotated edition of the poem, it had been stated that when Dodsley printed it in his Collection
of Poems, 1755, vol. iv., the epithet applied to flight was drony, and not droning? I dare
say the point has not escaped notice; but if it have, the fact is just worth observation.

Next, any doubt is not at all cleared up respecting the date of publication of Dodsley's Collection.
The Rev. J. Mitford, in his Aldine edition of Gray, says (p. xxxiii.) that the first three
volumes came out in 1752, whereas my copy of "the second edition" bears the date of 1748. Is
that the true date, or do editions vary? If the second edition came out in 1748, what was the
date of the first edition? I only put this last question because, as most people are aware,
some poems of note originally appeared in Dodsley's Collection of Poems, and it is material
to ascertain the real year when they first came from the press.

THE HERMIT OF HOLYPORT.

       *       *       *       *       *

REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES.

Zündnadel Guns (Vol. ii., p. 247.).--JARLTZBERG "would like to know when and by whom they were
invented, and their mechanism."

To describe mechanism without diagrams is both tedious and difficult; but I shall be happy
to show JARLTZBRG one of them in my possession, if he will favour me with a call,--for which
purpose I inclose my address, to be had at your office. The principle is, to load at the breach,
and the cartridge contains the priming, which is ignited by the action of a pin striking against
it. It is one of the worst of many methods of loading at the breach; and the same principle
was patented in England by A.A. Moser, a German, more than ten years ago. {344}

It has already received the attention of our Ordnance department, and has been tried at Woolwich.
The letter to which JARTZBERG refers, dated Berlin, Sept. 11., merely shows the extreme ignorance
of the writer on such subjects, as the range he mentions has nothing whatever to do with the
principle or mechanism of the gun in question. He ought also, before he expressed himself so
strongly, to have known, that the extreme range of an English percussion musket is nearer one
mile than 150 yards (which latter distance, he says, they do not exceed) and he would not have
been so astonished at the range of the Zündnadel guns being 800 yards, if he had seen, as I
have, a plain English two-grooved rifle range 1200 yards, with a proper elevation for the distance,
and a conical projectile instead of a ball.

The form and weight of the projectile fired from rifle, at a considerable elevation, say 25º
to 30º, with sufficient charge of gunpowder, is the cause of the range and of the accuracy,
and has nothing whatever to do with the construction or means by which it is fired, whether
flint or percussion. The discussion of this subject is probably unsuited to your publication,
or I could have considerably enlarged this communication. I will, however, simply add, that
the Zündnadel is very liable to get out of order, much exposed to wet, and that it does not
in reality possess any of the wonderful advantages that have been ascribed to it, except a
facility of loading, while clean, which is more than counterbalanced by its defects.

HENRY WILKINSON.

Thomson of Esholt (Vol. ii., p. 268.).--Dr. Whitaker tells us (Ducatus, ii. 202.) that the
dissolved priory of Essheholt was, in the 1st Edw. VI., granted to Henry Thompson, Gent., one
of the king's gens d'armes at Bologne. About a century afterwards the estate passed to the
more ancient and distinguished Yorkshire family of Calverley, by the marriage of the daughter
and heir of Henry Thompson, Esq., with Sir Walter Calverley. If your correspondent JAYTEE consult
Sims's useful Index to the Pedigrees and Arms contained in the Genealogical MSS. in the British
Museum, he will be referred to several pedigrees of the family of Thomson of Esholt. Of numerous
respectable families of the name of Thompson seated in the neighbourhood of York, the common
ancestor seems to have been a James Thompson of Thornton in Pickering Lythe, who flourished
in the reign of Elizabeth. (Vice Poulson's Holderess, vol. ii. p. 63.) All these families bear
the arms described by your correspondent, but without the bend sinister. The crest they use
is also nearly the same, viz., an armed arm, embowed, grasping a broken tilting spear.

No general collection of Yorkshire genealogies has been published. Information as to the pedigrees
of Yorkshire families must be sought for in the well-known topographical works of Thoresby
Whitaker, Hunter, &c., or in the MS. collections of Torre, Hopkinson, &c.

In the Monasticon Eboracense, by John Burton M.D., fol., York, 1778, under the head of "Eschewolde,
Essold, Esscholt, or Esholt, in Ayredale in the Deanry of the Ainsty," at pp. 139. and 140.,
your correspondent JAYTEE will find that the site of this priory was granted, 1 Edward VI.,
1547, to Henry Thompson, one of the king's gens d'armes, at Boleyn; who, by Helen, daughter
of Laurence Townley, had a natural son called William, living in 1585 who, assuming his father's
surname, and marrying Dorothy, daughter of Christopher Anderson of Lostock in com. Lanc. prothonotary
became the ancestor of those families of the Thompsons now living in and near York. He may
see also Burke's Landed Gentry, article "Say of Tilney, co. Norfolk," in the supplement.

Minar's Books of Antiquities (Vol. i., p. 277.).--A.N. inquires who is intended by Cusa in
his book De Docta Ignorantia, cap. vii., where he quotes "Minar in his Books of Antiquities."
Upon looking into the passage referred to, I remembered the following observation by a learned
writer now living, which will doubtless guide your correspondent to the author intended:--

    "On the subject of the imperfect views concerning the Deity,
    entertained by the ancient philosophical sects, I would especially
    refer to that most able and elaborate investigation of them, Meiner's
    very interesting tract, De Vero Deo."--(An Elementary Course of
    Theological Lectures, delivered in Bristol College, 1831-1833, by the
    Rev. W.D. Conybeare, now the Very Rev. the Dean of Llandaff. )

A.N. will not be surprised at Cusa Using the term "antiquitates" instead of "De Vero Deo,"
if he will compare his expressions on the same subject in his book De Venatione Sapientiæ, e.g.:--

    "Vides nunc æternum illud antiquissimum in eo campo (scilicet non
    aliud) dulcissima venatione quæri posse. Attingis enim antiquissimum
    trinum et unum."--Cap. xiv.

T.J.

Smoke Money (Vol. ii., pp. 120. 174.).--Sir Roger Twisden (Historical Vindication of the Church
of England, chap. iv. p. 77.) observes--

    "King Henry, 153¾, took them (Peter's pence) so absolutely away, as
    though Queen Mary repealed that Act, and Paulus Quartus dealt earnestly
    with her agents in Rome for restoring the use of them, yet I cannot
    find that they were ever gathered and sent thither during her time but
    where some monasteries did answer them to the Pope, and did therefore
    collect the tax, that in process of time became, as by custom, paid to
    that house which being after derived to the crown, and from thence, by
    grant, to others, with as ample {345} profits as the religious persons
    did possess them, I conceive they are to this day paid as an appendant
    to the said manors, by the name of Smoke Money.

J.B.

Smoke Money (Vol. ii., pp. 120, 269.).--I do not know whether any additional information on
smoke money is required but the following extracts may be interesting to your Querist:--

    "At this daie the Bp. of Elie hath out of everie parish in
    Cambridgeshire a certeine tribute called Elie Farthings, or Smoke
    Farthings, which the church-wardens do levie, according to the number
    of houses or else of chimneys that be in a parish."--MSS, Baker, xxix.
    326.

The date of this impost is given in the next extract:--

    "By the records of the Church of Elie, it appears that in the year
    1154, every person who kept a fire in the several parishes within that
    diocese was obliged to pay one farthing yearly to the altar of S.
    Peter, in the same cathedral."--MSS. Bowtell, Downing Coll. Library.

This tax was paid in 1516, but how much later I cannot say.

The readers of Macaulay will be familiar with the term "heart-money" (History, vol. i. p. 283.),
and the amusing illustrations he produces, from the ballads of the day, of the extreme unpopularity
of the tax on chimneys, and the hatred in which the "chimney man" was held (i. 287.) but this
was a different impost frown that spoken of above, and paid to the king, not to the cathedral.

The Rev. Giles Moore, Rector of Horstead Keynes, Sussex, notes in his Diary (published by the
Sussex Archæological Society),--

    August 18, 1663.--I payed fore 1 half yeares earth-money 3s.

Other notices of this payment may be supplied by other correspondents.

E. VENABLES.

Holland Land (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--Holland means hole or hollow land--land lower than the level
of contiguous water, and protected by dykes. So Holland, one of the United Provinces; so Holland,
the southern division of Lincolnshire.

C.

Caconac, Caconacquerie (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--This is a misprint of yours, or a misspelling
of your correspondents. The word is cacouac, cacouacquerie. It was a cant word used by Voltaire
and his correspondents to signify an unbeliever in Christianity, and was, I think, borrowed
from the name of some Indian tribe supposed to be in a natural state of freedom and exemption
from prejudice.

C.

Discourse of National Excellencies of England (Vol. ii., p. 248.).--A Discourse of the National
Excellencies of England was not written by Sir Rob. Howard, but by RICHARD HAWKINS, Whose name
appears at length in the title-page to some copies; others have the initials only.

P.B.

Saffron Bags (Vol. ii., p. 217.).--In almost all old works on Materia Medica the use of these
bags is mentioned. Quincy, in his Dispensatory, 1730, p. 179., says:--

    "Some prescribe it (saffron) to be worn with camphire in a bag at the
    pit of the stomach for melancholy; and others affirm that, so used,
    it will cure agues."

Ray observes (Cat. Plant. Angl., 1777, p. 84.):

    "Itemque in sacculo suspenditur sub mento vel gutture ad dissipandam
    sc. materiam putridam et venenatam, ne ibidem stagnans, inflammationen
    excitet, ægrotumque strangulet."

The origin of the "saffron bag", is probably to be explained by the strong aromatic odour of
saffron, and the high esteem in which it was once held as a medicine; though now it is used
chiefly as a colouring ingredient and by certain elderly ladies, with antiquated notions, as
a specific for "striking out" the measles in their grandchildren.

[Hebrew: t. a.]

Milton's "Penseroso" (Vol. ii, p. 153.).--H.A.B. desires to understand the couplet--

  "And love the high embower'd roof,
  With antique pillars massy proof."

He is puzzled whether to consider "proof" an adjective belonging to "pillars," or a substantive
in apposition with it. All the commentators seem to have passed the line without observation.
I am almost afraid to suggest that we should read "pillars'" in the genitive plural, "proof"
being taken in the sense of established strength.

Before dismissing this conjecture, I have taken the pains to examine every one of the twenty-four
other passages in which Milton has used the word "proof." I find that it occurs only four times
as an adjective in all of which it is followed by something dependent upon it. In three of
than thus:

      "---- not proof
  Against temptation."--Par. L. ix. 298.

  "---- proof 'gainst all assaults."--Ib. x. 88.

  "Proof against all temptation."--Par. R. iv. 533.

In the fourth, which is a little different, thus:

      "---- left some part
  Not proof enough such object to sustain."
          Par. L. viii. 5S5.

{346} As Milton, therefore, has in no other place used "proof" as an adjective without something
attached to it, I feel assured that he did not use it as an adjective in the passage in question.

J.S.W.

Stockwell, Sept. 7.

Achilles and the Tortoise (Vol. ii., p. l54.).--[Greek: Idiôtês] will find the paradox of "Achilles
and the Tortoise" explained by Mr. Mansel of St. John's College, Oxon, in a note to his late
edition of Aldrich's Logic (1849, p. 125.). He there shows that the fallacy is a material one:
being a false assumption of the major premise, viz., that the sum of an infinite series is
itself always infinite (whereas it may be finite). Mansel refers to Plato, Parmenid. p. 128.
[when will editors learn to specify the editions which they use?] Aristot. Soph. Eleuctr. 10.
2. 33. 4., and Cousin, Nouveaux Fragments, Zénon d'Elée.

T.E.L.L.

Stepony Ale (Vol. ii., p. 267.).--The extract from Chamberlayne certainly refers to ale brewed
at Stepney. In Playford's curious collection of old popular tunes, the English Dancing Master,
1721, is one called "Stepney Ale and Cakes;" and in the works of Tom Brown and Ned Ward, other
allusions to the same are to be found.

EDWARD F. RIMBAULT. If they ever coined any, it is almost impossible that it should all have
disappeared.

GRIFFIN.

Wormwood (Vol. ii., pp. 249. 315.).--The French gourmands have two sorts of liqueur flavoured
with wormwood; Crême d'Absinthe, and Vermouthe. In the Almanac des Gourmands there is a pretty
account of the latter, called the coup d'après. In the south of France, I think, they say it
is the fashion to have a glass brought in towards the end of the repast by girls to refit the
stomach.

C.B.

Puzzling Epitaph (Vol. ii., p. 311.).--J. BDN has, I think, not given this epitaph quite correctly.
The following is as it appeared in the Times, 20th Sept., 1828 (copied from the Mirror). It
is stated to be in a churchyard in Germany:--

   "O     quid   tua    te
    be    bis    bia    abit
       ra     ra     ra
              es
           et     in
      ram     ram     ram
             i   i
    Mox eris quod  ego  nunc."
The reading is--

"O superbe quid superbis? tua superbia te superabit. Terra es et in terram ibis. Mox eris quod
ego nunc."

E.B. PRICE.

October 14. 1850.

    [The first two lines of this epitaph, and many similar specimens of
    learned trifling, will be found in Les Bigarrures et Touches de
    Seigneur des Accords, cap. iii., autre Façons de Rebus, p. 35., ed.
    1662.]

Umbrella (Vol. ii., pp. 25. 93.).--In the collection of pictures at Woburn Abbey is a full-length
portrait of the beautiful Duchess of Bedford, who afterwards married the Earl of Jersey, painted
about the year 1730. She is represented as attended by a black servant, who holds an open umbrella
to shade her.

In both these passages of Cowper, the umbrella appears to be equivalent to what would now be
called a parasol.

L.

Pope and Bishop Burgess (Vol. ii., p. 310.).--The allusion is to the passage in Troilus and
Cressida:

  "The dreadful sagitary appals our numbers."

which Theobald explained from Caxton, but Pope did not understand.

C.B.

    [Not the only passage in Shakspeare which Theobald explained and Pope
    did not understand; but more of this hereafter.]

Book of Homilies (Vol. ii., p. 89.).--Allow me to inform B. that the early edition of Homilies
{347} referred to in his Query was compiled by Richard Taverner, and consists of a series of
"postils" on the epistles and gospels throughout the year. It appears to have been first printed
in 1540 (Ames, i. 407.), and was republished in 1841, under the editorial care of Dr. Cardwell.

C.H.

St. Catharine's Hall, Cambridge.

Roman Catholic Theology (Vol. ii., p. 279.).--I beg to refer M.Y.A.H. to the Church History
of England by Hugh Tootle, better known by his pseudonyme of Charles Dod (3 vols. folio, Brussels,
1737-42). A very valuable edition of this important work was commenced by the Rev. M.A. Tierney;
but as the last volume (the fifth) was published so long ago as 1843, and no symptom of any
other appears, I presume that this extremely curious book has, for some reason or other, been
abandoned. Perhaps the well-known jealousy of the censor may have interfered.

A useful manual of Catholic bibliography exists in the Thesaurus Librorum Rei Catholicæ, 8vo.
Würzburg, 1850.

G.R.

Modum Promissionis (Vol. ii., p. 279.).--Without the context of the passage adduced by C.W.B.,
it is impossible to speak positively as to its precise signification. I think, however, the
phrase is equivalent to "formula professionis monasticæ." Promissio frequently occurs in this
sense, as may be seen by referring to Ducange (s.v.).

C.H.

Bacon Family (Vol. ii., p. 247.).--The name of Bacon has been considered to be of Norman origin,
arising from some fief so called.--See Roman de Rose, vol. ii. p. 269.

X.P.M.

Execution of Charles I. and Earl of Stair (Vol. ii., pp. 72. 140. 158.).--MATFELONENSIS speaks
too fast when he says that "no mention occurs of the Earl of Stair." I distinctly recollect
reading in an old life of the Earl of Stair an account of his having been sent for to visit
a mysterious person of extreme old age, who stated that he was the earl's ancestor (grandfather
or great-grandfather, but whether paternal or not I do not remember), and that he had been
the executioner of Charles I.

T.N.

    [The story to which our correspondent alludes is, probably, that quoted
    in Cecil's (Hone's) Sixty Curious and Authentic Narratives, pp.
    138-140., from the Recreations of a Man of Feeling. The peerage and
    the pedigree of the Stair family alike prove that there is little
    foundation for this ingenious fiction.]

Water-marks on Writing-paper (Vol. ii., p. 310.).--On this subject C., will, I think, find
all the information he seeks in a paper published in the Aldine Magazine, (Masters, Aldersgate-st.,
1839). This paper is accompanied by engravings of the ancient water-marks, as well as those
of more modern times, and enters somewhat largely into the question of how far water-marks
may be considered as evidence of precise dates. They are not always to be relied upon, for
in December, 1850, there will doubtless be thousands of reams of paper issued and in circulation,
bearing the date of 1851, unless the practice is altered of late years. Timperley's Biographical,
Chronological, and Historical Dictionary is much quoted on the subject of "Water-marks."

E.B. PRICE.

St. John Nepomuc (Vol. ii., pp. 209. 317.).--The statues in honour of this Saint must be familiar
to every one who has visited Bohemia, as also the spot of his martyrdom at Prague, indicated
by some brass stars let into the parapet of the Steinerne Brücke, on the right-hand side going
from Prague to the suburb called the Kleinseite. As the story goes, he was offered the most
costly bribes by Wenzel, king of Bohemia, to betray his trust, and after his repeated refusal
was put to the torture, and then thrown into the Moldau, where he was drowned. The body of
the saint was embalmed, and is now preserved in a costly silver shrine of almost fabulous worth,
in the church of St. Veit, in the Kleinseite. In Weber's Briefe eines durch Deutschland reisende
Deutschen, the weight silver about this shrine is said to be twenty "centener."

C.D. LAMONT.

Satirical Medals (Vol. ii., p. 298.).--A descriptive catalogue of British medals is preparing
for the press, wherein all the satirical medals relating to the Revolution of 1688 will be
minutely described and explained.

G.H.

Passage in Gray (Vol. i., p. 150.).--I see no difficulty in the passage about which your correspondent;
A GRAYAN inquires. The abode of the merits and frailties of the dead, i.e. the place in which
they are treasured up until the Judgment, is the Divine mind. This the poet, by a very allowable
figure, calls "Bosom." Homer's expression is somewhat analogous.

  [Greek: "Tade panta theion en gounasi keitai."]

E.C.H.

Cupid Crying (Vol. i., pp. 172. 308.).--Another translation of the English verses, p. 172.,
which English are far superior to the Latin original:--

  "Perchi ferisce Venere
    Il filio suo che geme?
    Diede il fanciullo a Celia
    Le freccie e l'arco insieme.

  Sarebbe mai possibile!
    Ei nol voluto avea;
    Ma rise Celia; ei subito
    La Madre esser credea."

E.C.H. {348}

Anecdote of a Peal of Bells (Vol. i., p. 382.).--It is related of the bells of Limerick Cathedral
by Mrs. S.C. Hall (Ireland, vol. i., p. 328. note).

M.

    [Another correspondent, under the same signature, forwards the legend
    as follows

    "THOSE EVENING BELLS."

    "The remarkably fine bells of Limerick Cathedral were originally
    brought from Italy. They had been manufactured by a young native (whose
    name tradition has not preserved), and finished after the toil of many
    years; and he prided himself upon his work. They were subsequently
    purchased by a prior of a neighbouring convent, and, with the profits
    of this sale, the young Italian procured a little villa, where he had
    the pleasure of hearing the tolling of his bells from the convent
    cliff, and of growing old in the bosom of domestic happiness. This,
    however, was not to continue. In some of those broils, whether civil or
    foreign, which are the undying worm in the peace of a fallen land, the
    good Italian was a sufferer amongst many. He lost his all; and after
    the passing of the storm, he found himself preserved alone, amid the
    wreck of fortune, friends, family, and home. The convent in which the
    bells, the chef-d'oeuvre of his skill, were hung, was rased to the
    earth, and these last carried away to another land. The unfortunate
    owner, haunted by his memories and deserted by his hopes, became a
    wanderer over Europe. His hair grew gray, and his heart withered,
    before he again found a home and friend. In this desolation of spirit
    he formed the resolution of seeking the place to which those treasures
    of his memory had finally been borne. He sailed for Ireland, proceeded
    up the Shannon; the vessel anchored in the pool near Limerick, and he
    hired a small boat for the purpose of landing. The city was now before
    him; and he beheld St. Mary's steeple lifting its turreted head above
    the smoke and mist of the old town. He sat in the stern, and looked
    fondly towards it. It was an evening so calm and beautiful as to remind
    him of his own native haven in the sweetest time of the year--the death
    of spring. The broad stream appeared like one smooth mirror, and the
    little vessel glided through it with almost a noiseless expedition. On
    a sudden, amid the general stillness, the bells tolled from the
    cathedral; the rowers rested on their oars, and the vessel went forward
    with the impulse it had received. The old Italian looked towards the
    city, crossed his arms on his breast, and lay back on his seat; home,
    happiness, early recollections, friends, family--all were in the sound,
    and went with it to his heart. When the rowers looked round, they
    beheld him with his face still turned towards the cathedral, but his
    eyes were closed, and when they landed they found him cold in death."

    MR. H. EDWARDS informs us it appeared in an early number of Chambers'
    Journal. J.G.A.P. kindly refers us to the Dublin Penny Journal, vol.
    i. p. 48., where the story is also told; and to a poetical version of
    it, entitled "The Bell-founder," first printed in the Dublin
    University Magazine, and since in the collected poems of the author,
    D. H. McCarthy.]

Codex Flateyensis (Vol. ii., p. 278.).--Your correspondent W.H.F., when referring to the Orkneyinga
Saga, requests information regarding the Codex Flateyensis, in which is contained one of the
best MSS. of the Saga above mentioned. W.H.F. labours under the misapprehension of regarding
the Codex Flateyensis as a mere manuscript of the Orkneyinga Saga, whereas that Saga constitutes
but a very small part of the magnificent volume. The Codex Flateyensis takes its name, as W.H.F.
rightly concludes, from the island of Flatey in the Breidafiord in Iceland, where it was long
preserved. It is a parchment volume most beautifully executed, the initial letters of the chapters
being finely illuminated, and extending in many instances, as in a fac-simile now before me,
from top to bottom of the folio page. The contents of the volume may be learned from the following
lines on the first page; I give it in English as the original is in Icelandic:--

    "John Hakonson owns this book, herein first are written verses, then
    how Norway was colonised, then of Erik the Far-travelled, thereafter of
    Olaf Tryggvason the king with all his deeds, and next is the history of
    Olaf Haraldson, the saint, and of his deeds, and therewith the history
    of the earls of Orkney, then is there Sverrers Saga; thereafter the
    Saga of Hakon the Old, with the Saga of Magnus the king, his son, then
    the deeds of Einar Sokkeson of Greenland, and next of Elga and Ulf the
    Bad; and then begin the annals from the creation of the world to the
    present year. John Thordarson the priest wrote the portion concerning
    Erik the Far-travelled, and the Sagas of both the Olaves; but Magnus
    Thorhallson the priest has written all that follows, as well as all
    that preceded, and has illuminated all (the book). Almighty God and the
    holy virgin mary give joy to those who wrote and to him who dictated."

A little further on we learn from the text that when the book began to be written there had
elapsed from the birth of Christ 1300 and 80 and 7 years. The volume was, therefore, commenced
in 1387, and finished, as we judge from the year at which the annals cease, in 1395. The death
of Hakon Hakonson is recorded in the last chapters of the Saga of that name, which we see is
included in the list of those contained in the Codex Flateyensis.

E. CHARLTON.

Newcastle-on-Tyne, Oct. 6. 1850.

Paying through the Nose, and Etymology of Shilling (Vol. i., p. 335.).--Odin, they say, laid
a nose-tax on ever Swede,--a penny a nose. (Grimm, Deutsche Rechts Alterthümer, p. 299.) I
think people not able to pay forfeited "the prominence on the face, which is the organ of scent,
and emunctory of the brain," as good Walker says. It was according to the rule, "Qui non habet
in ære, luat in pelle." Still we "count" or "tell noses," when computing, for instance, how
many persons of the company are to pay the reckoning. The expression is used in England, if
I am rightly informed, as well as in Holland. {349}

Tax money was gathered into a brass shield, and the jingling (schel) noise it produced, gave
to the pieces of silver exacted the name of schellingen (shillings). Saxo-Grammaticus, lib
viii. p. 267., citatus apud Grimm, l. 1. p. 77. The reference is too curious not to note it down:--

    "Huic (Fresiæ) Gotricus nom tam arctam, quam inusitatam pensionem
    imposuit, de cujus conditione et modo summatim referam. Primum itaque
    ducentorum quadraginta pedum longitudinem habentis ædificii structura
    disponitur, bis senis distincta spatiis, quorum quodlibet vicenorum
    pedum intercapedine tenderetur, prædictæ quantitatis summam totalis
    spatii dispendio reddente. In hujus itaque ædis capite regio considente
    quæstore, sub extremam ejus partem rotundus e regione elipeus
    exhibetur. Fresonibus igitur tributum daturis mos erat singulos nummos
    in hujus scuti cavum conjicere, e quibus eos duntaxat in censum
    regium ratio computantis eligeret, qui eminus exatoris aures clarioris
    soni crepitaculo perstrinxissent quo evenit, ut id solum æs quæstor in
    fiscum supputando colligeret, cujus casum remotiore auris indicio
    persensisset, cujus vero obscurior sonus citra computantis defuisset
    auditum, recipiebatur quidem in fiscum (!!!), sed nullum summæ
    præstabat augmentum. Compluribus igitur nummorum jactibus quæstorias
    aures nulla sensibili sonoritate pulsantibus, accidit, ut statam pro se
    stipem erogaturi multam interdum æris partem inani pensione
    consumerent, cujus tributi onere per Karolum postea liberati
    produntur."

JANUS DOUSA.

Huis te Manpadt.

Small Words (Vol. ii., p. 305.).--Some of your correspondents have justly recommended correctness
in the references to authorities cited. Allow me to suggest the necessity of similar care in
quotations. If K.J.P.B.T. had taken the pains to refer to the passage in Pope which he criticises
(Vol. ii., p. 305.), he would have spared himself some trouble, and you considerable space.
The line is not, as he puts it, "And ten small words," but--

  "And ten low words oft creep in one dull line."

a difference which deprives his remarks of much of their applicability.

[Greek: PH.]

Bilderdijk the Poet (Vol. ii., p. 309.).--There are several letters from Southey, in his Life
and Correspondence, written while under the roof of Bilderdijk, giving a very agreeable account
of the poet, his wife, and his family.

[Greek: PH.]

Fool or a Physician (Vol. i., p. 137.; vol. ii., p. 315.).--The writer who has used this expression
is Dr. Cheyne, and he probably altered it from the alliterative form, "a man is a fool or a
physician at forty," which I have frequently heard in various parts of England. Dr. Cheyne's
words are: "I think every man is a fool or a physician at thirty years of age, (that is to
say), by that time he ought to know his own constitution, and unless he is determined to live
an intemperate and irregular life, I think he may by diet and regimen prevent or cure any chronical
disease; but as to acute disorders no one who is not well acquainted with medicine should trust
to his own skill."

Dr. Cheyne was a medical writer of the last century.

A. G----T.

Wat the Hare (Vol. ii., p. 315.).--In the interesting, though perhaps somewhat partial, account
of the unsuccessful siege of Corfe Castle, during the civil wars of the seventeenth century,
which is given in the Mercurius Rusticus, there is an anecdote which will give a reply to the
Query of your correspondent K. The commander of the Parliamentarian forces was Sir Walter Erle;
and it was a great joke with his opponents that the pass-word of "Old Wat" had been given (by
himself I believe) on the night of his last assault on the castle. The chronicler informs us
that "Old Wat" was the usual notice of a hare being found sitting; and the proverbial timidity
of that animal suggested some odious comparisons with the defeated general.

I have not the book at hand, but I am pretty sure that the substance of my information is correct.

C.W. BINGHAM.

Bingham's Melcombe, Blandford.

Law Courts at St. Albans (Vol. i., p. 366.).--Although unable to answer [Greek: S.], perhaps
I may do him service by enabling him to put his Query more correctly. The disease which drove
the lawyers from London in the 6th year of Elizabeth (1563) was not the sweating sickness (which
has not returned since the reign of Edward VI.), but a plague brought into England by the late
garrison of Havre de Grâce. And it was at Hertford that Candlemas term was kept on the occasions.
See Heylyn, Hist. Ref., ed. Eccl. Hist. Soc. ii. 401.

J.C.R.

The Troubles at Frankfort (Vol. i., p. 379.).--In Petheram's edition of this work, it is shown
that Whittingham, dean of Durham, was most likely the author. That Coverdale was not, appears
from the circumstance that the writer had been a party in the "Troubles," whereas Coverdale
did not reside at Frankfort during any part of his exile.

J.C.R.

Standing during the Reading of the Gospel (Vol. ii., p. 246.).--

    "Apostolica auctoritate mandamus, dum sancta Evangelia in Ecclesia
    recitantur, ut Sacerdotes, et cæteri omnes presentes, non sedentes, sed
    venerabiliter curvi, in conspectu Evangelii stantes Dominica verba
    intente audiant, et fideliter adorent."--Anastasius, i., apud Grat.
    Decret. De Consecrat. Dist., ii. cap. 68.

J. BE. {350}

Scotch Prisoners at Worcester (Vol. ii., p. 297.).--I cannot think that the extract from the
accounts of the churchwardens of St. Margaret's, Westminster, at all justifies C.F.S. in supposing
that the Scotch prisoners were massacred in cold blood. The total number of these prisoners
was 10,000. Of the 1,200 who were buried, the greater part most probably died of their wounds;
and though this number is large, yet we must bear in mind that in those days the sick and wounded
were not tended with the care and attention which are now displayed in such cases. We learn
from the Parliamentary History (xx. 58.), that on the 17th Sep. 1651, "the Scots prisoners
were brought to London, and marched through the city into Tothill-fields." The same work (xx.
72.) states that "Most of the common soldiers were sent to the English Plantations; and 1500
of them were granted to the Guiney merchants and sent to work in the Gold mines there." Large
numbers were also employed in draining the great level of the Fens (Wells, History of the Bedford
Level, i. 228-244.). Lord Clarendon (book xiii.) says, "Many perished for want of food, and,
being enclosed in little room till they were sold to the plantations for slaves, they died
of all diseases."

C.H. COOPER.

Cambridge, Oct. 5. 1850.

Scotch Prisoners at Worcester.--The following is Rapin's account of the disposition of these
prisoners, and even this statement he seems to doubt. (Vol. ii. p. 585.)

    "It is pretended, of the Scots were slain [at Worcester] about 2000,
    and seven or eight thousand taken prisoners, who being sent to London,
    were sold for slaves to the plantations of the American
    isles."--Authorities referred to: Phillips, p. 608., Clarendon, iii. p.
    320., Burnet's Mem. p. 432.

J.C.B.

"Antiquitas Sæculi Juventus Mundi" (Vol. ii., p. 218.).--A learned friend, who although involved
in the avocations of an active professional career, delights "inter sylvas Academi quærere
verum," has favoured me with the following observation on these words:--"That the phrase Antiquitas
sæculi juventus mundi is in Italics in Bacon's work does not, in my opinion, prove it to be
a quotation, any more than the words ordine retrogrado in the subsequent passage. Italics were
used in Bacon's time, and long afterwards, to to mark not only quotations, but emphatic words,
[Greek: gnômai], and epigrammatic sentences, of which you will every where see instances. I
have not the original edition of the work, but we have here[5] the rare translation into English
by Gilbert Wats, Oxford, 1640, folio, through which the references to authors are given in
the margin; but there is no reference appended to this passage. I cannot of course decide positively
that the phrase is not a quotation, but I incline to the opinion that it is not. It may be
an adaptation of some proverbial expression; but I prefer believing that it is Bacon's own
mode of expressing that the present times are more ancient (i.e. full of years) than the earliest,
and thus to show that the respect we entertain for authority is unfounded."

Coleridge was of the same opinion (Introd. to Encycl. Metrop., p. 19.). Had the phrase been
a quotation, would not Bacon have said, "Sanè ut vere dictum est," rather than "Ut vere dicamus."

T.J.

[Footnote 5: Primate Marsh's library, St. Patrick's, Dublin, which contains about 18,000 volumes,
including the entire collection of Stillingfleet, Bishop of Worcester.]

The Lass of Richmond Hill (Vol. ii., p. 103.)--In reply to QUÆRO, I beg to say that he will
find the words of the above song in the Morning Herald of August 1, 1789, a copy of which I
possess. It is here described as a "favourite song, sung by Mr. Incledon at Vauxhall; composed
by Mr. Hook."

J.B.

Walworth.

       *       *       *       *       *

MISCELLANEOUS.

NOTES ON BOOKS, SALES, CATALOGUES, ETC.

The importance of Winchelsea as a convenient port for communication with France, from the time
of the Conquest to the close of the fifteenth century, having led to a wish for a more extended
history of that town than is to be found in any work relating either to the Cinque Ports or
to the county of Sussex, Mr. Durrant Cooper determined to gather together the existing materials
for such a history as a contribution to the Sussex Archæological Society. The industry, however,
with which Mr. Cooper prosecuted his search after original records and other materials connected
with the town and its varied history, was rewarded by the discovery of so many important documents
as to render it impossible to carry out his original intention. The present separate work,
entitled The History of Winchelsea, one of the Ancient Towns added to the Cinque Ports, is
the result of this change; and the good people of Winchelsea have now to thank Mr. Cooper for
a history of it, which has been as carefully prepared as it has been judiciously executed.
Mr. Cooper has increased the amusement and information to be derived from his volume, by the
manner in which he has contrived to make transactions of great historical importance illustrate
his narrative of events of merely local interest.

The new edition of the Pictorial Shakspeare which Mr. Charles Knight has just commenced under
the title of the "National Edition" cannot, we think, prove other than a most successful attempt
to circulate among all classes, but especially among readers of comparatively small means,
a cheap, well-edited, and beautifully illustrated edition of the works of our great poet. The
text of the present edition is not printed, {351} like of its precursor, in double columns,
but in a distinct and handsome type extending across the page; and as there is no doubt the
notes will be revised so as to incorporate the amendments and elucidations of the text, which
have appeared from our Colliers, Hunters, &c., since the Pictorial Shakspeare was first published,
there can be little doubt but that this National Edition will meet with a sale commensurate
with the taste and enterprise of its editor and publisher, Mr. Knight.

We have received the following Catalogues:--W. Waller and Son's (188. Fleet Street) Catalogue
Part III. for 1850 of Choice Books at remarkably low prices, in the best condition; John Petheram's
(94. High Holborn) Catalogue Part CXVI. No. 10. for 1850 of Old and New Books; Williams and
Norgate's (14. Henrietta Street, Covent Garden) Catalogue No. 1. of Second-hand Books and Books
at reduced Prices.

       *       *       *       *       *

BOOKS AND ODD VOLUMES WANTED TO PURCHASE.

GRIMALDI, ORIGINES GENEALOGICÆ.

ANDERSON'S ROYAL GENEALOGIES.

AN ACCOUNT OF THE REMAINS OF THE WORSHIP OF PRIAPUS, WITH A DISCOURSE ON THE MYSTIC THEOLOGY
OF THE ANCIENTS. BY R. PAYNE KNIGHT, 4to. 1786.

SALVADOR'S "JESUS CHRIST ET SA DOCTRINE."

SALVADOR'S "INSTITUTIONS DE MOÏSE ET DU PEUPLE HEBREU."

BOSWELL'S JOHNSON. 12mo. edition. Murray, 1816. Vol.

G.R.M., who inquires respecting the oft-quoted line,

  "Tempora mutantur, nos et mutamur in illis,"

is referred to NOTES AND QUERIES, Vol. I., pp. 234. 419. The germ of the line is in the Delitiæ
Poet. Germ., under the poems of Mathias Borbonius.

VOLUME THE FIRST OF NOTES AND QUERIES, with Title-page and very copious Index, is now ready,
price 9s. 6d., bound in cloth, and may be had, by order, of all Booksellers and Newsmen.

The Monthly Part for September, being the Fourth of Vol. II., is also now ready, price 1s.

       *       *       *       *       *

INDIA OVERLAND MAIL.--DIORAMA. GALLERY OF ILLUSTRATION, 14. Regent Street, Waterloo Place.--A
Gigantic MOVING DIORAMA of the ROUTE of the OVERLAND MAIL to INDIA, exhibiting the following
Places, viz., Southampton Docks, Isle of Wight, Osborne, the Needles, the Bay of Biscay, the
Berlings, Cintra, the Tagus, Cape Trafalgar, Tarifa, Gibraltar, Algiers, Malta, Alexandria,
Cairo, the Desert of Suez, the Central Station, Suez, the Red Sea, Aden, Ceylon, Madras, and
Calcutta--is now OPEN DAILY.--Mornings at Twelve; Afternoons at Three; and Evenings at Eight.--Admission,
1s.; Stalls, 2s. 6d.; Reserved Seats, 3s. Doors open half an hour before each Representation.

       *       *       *       *       *

SHAKSPEARE.--An Advertisement of a New Edition of Shakspeare having appeared from Mr. Vickers
of Hollywell Street, accompanied by an advertisement, in which he says he has "engaged the
services," of Mr. Halliwell as editor, Mr. Halliwell begs publicly to state he has no knowledge
whatever of Mr. Vickers; and that the use of Mr. Halliwell's name in that advertisement is
entirely made without his authority.

Another advertisement of a similar work has been issued by Messrs. Tallis and Co. of St. John
Street, London, announcing the publication by them of the Works of Shakspeare, edited, as the
advertisement states, by Mr. Halliwell. This announcement has also been made entirely without
Mr. Halliwell's sanction, Mr. H. having no knowledge of that firm.

Avenue Lodge, Brixton Hill, Oct. 15. 1850.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE CAXTON MEMORIAL.--Gentlemen are respectfully requested to withhold their subscriptions
to any engraving of--

    CAXTON EXAMINING THE FIRST PROOF SHEET FROM HIS PRINTING PRESS IN
    WESTMINSTER ABBEY, A.D. 1474,

until they have seen the celebrated picture (now on view at HENRY REMINGTON's, 137. Regent
Street,) painted by W.E.H. WEHNERT.

The Engraving is now in the hands of Mr. BACON, and will be in the highest style of Mezzotinto,
the size of Bolton Abbey, viz. 28 in. by 22 in. high. Prospectuses and opinions of the Press
forwarded on application.

       *       *       *       *       *

IOLO MORGANWG.--Recollections and Anecdotes of EDWARD WILLIAMS, the Bard of Glamorgan. With
Illustrations and a Copious Appendix. By ELIJAH WARING. Post 8vo., cloth, price 6s.

London: CHARLES GILPIN, 5. Bishopsgate Without.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE NEW SERIES OF ROYAL FEMALE BIOGRAPHIES.

This Series will be comprised in Six Volumes post 8vo., uniform in size with "The Lives of
the Queens of England," embellished with Portraits and engraved Title-pages.

Vol. I. will be published in October.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD & SONS, Edinburgh and London.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE WEEKLY NEWS.--A Journal of the Events of the Week, Political, Scientific, Literary and
Artistic; with ORIGINAL COMMENT AND ELUCIDATION by Writers of High Celebrity in their various
Departments. Handsomely printed in a form fitted for Binding.

This Newspaper is prepared, with the utmost care, for the Educated Man who desires to be kept
au courant with the progress of the great world in all matters of Politics, of Literature,
of Art, of Science, and of Mechanical, Chemical, and Agricultural Discovery; and with all Movements
and Proceedings, Professional, Collegiate, Military, Naval, Sporting, &c. Particular attention
is devoted to the affairs of INDIA, AND OUR COLONIAL EMPIRE. Wherever the Englishman has planted
our Laws, our Institutions, and our Language, there to us is England.

The political and social views of the WEEKLY NEWS are liberal and progressive, and in these
and all other departments of thought its original papers and articles treat earnestly and candidly
of the great questions. Fair space is also given to the lighter productions of writers of wit
and fancy. Quarterly Subscription, 6s. 6d. Office of the WEEKLY NEWS, No. 1. Catherine Street,
Strand.

       *       *       *       *       *

BEST FAMILY NEWSPAPER.

BELL'S WEEKLY MESSENGER, which is now dispatched from London by the EVENING MAIL on FRIDAY,
has been established more than half a century, and is admitted to be the BEST FAMILY NEWSPAPER
of the day, THE MOST SCRUPULOUS CARE BEING TAKEN TO PREVENT THE ADMISSION OF ALL OBJECTIONABLE
MATTER, EITHER IN THE SHAPE OF ADVERTISEMENTS OR OTHERWISE. The political principles of BELL'S
WEEKLY MESSENGER are embodied in the words "Protection to all Branches of Native Industry and
Capital;" but every measure calculated to promote the moral, social, and religious welfare
of the community, will find in it a sincere and strenuous advocate. A SECOND EDITION is published
on SATURDAY MORNING, and can be received within TWELVE MILES OF LONDON by FIVE O'CLOCK in the
afternoon.--Orders received by any Newsman, or at the Office, 2. Bridge-street, Blackfriars.
Fifth Edition 3 vols. 8vo. cloth, gilt tops, 2l. 8s.

    "Since the year 1836, in which this work first appeared, no fewer than
    four large editions have been exhausted. The fifth edition is now
    before us, and we have no doubt will meet, as it deserves, the same
    extended patronage and success. The text has been considerably
    augmented by the enlargement of many of the old articles, as well as by
    the addition of many new ones, among which Professor Willis has
    embodied great part of his Architectural Nomenclature of the Middle
    Ages; the number of woodcuts has been increased from 1100 to above
    1700, and the work in its present form is, we believe, unequalled in
    the architectural literature of Europe for the amount of accurate
    information it furnishes, and the beauty of its illustrations."--Notes
    and Queries.

AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE By JOHN HENRY PARKER, F.S.A. 16mo. with
numerous Illustrations. Price 4s. 6d.

THE PRIMEVAL ANTIQUITIES OF ENGLAND AND DENMARK COMPARED. BY J.J.A. WORSAAE, Member of the
Royal Society of Antiquaries of Copenhagen, and by WILLIAM J. THOMS, F.S.A., Secretary of the
Camden Society. With numerous Illustrations. 8vo. 10s.

RICKMAN'S GOTHIC ARCHITECTURE. An Attempt to discriminate the different Styles of Architecture
in England. By the late THOMAS RICKMAN, F.S.A. With 30 Engravings on Steel by Le Keux, &c.,
and 465 on Wood, of the best examples, from Original Drawings by F. Mackenzie, O. Jewitt, and
P. H. Delamotte. Fifth Edition. 8vo. 21s.

THE ECCLESIASTICAL AND ARCHITECTURAL TOPOGRAPHY OF ENGLAND. Vol. I. DIOCESE OF OXFORD. 8vo.
cloth, 7s. 6d.

AN INQUIRY INTO THE DIFFERENCE OF STYLE OBSERVABLE IN ANCIENT PAINTED GLASS, With Hints on
Glass Painting, Illustrated by numerous coloured Plates from Ancient Examples. By an Amateur.
2 vols. 8vo. 1l. 10s.

A BOOK OF ORNAMENTAL GLAZING QUARRIES, Collected and arranged from Ancient Examples. By AUGUSTUS
WOLLASTON FRANKS, B.A. With 112 Coloured Examples. 8vo. 16s.

A MANUAL FOR THE STUDY OF MONUMENTAL BRASSES, With a Descriptive Catalogue of 450 "RUBBINGS,"
in the possession of the Oxford Architectural Society, Topographical and Heraldic Indices,
&c. With numerous Illustrations, 8vo. 10s. 6d.

A MANUAL FOR THE STUDY OF SEPULCHRAL SLABS AND CROSSES OF THE MIDDLE AGES. By the Rev. EDWARD
L. CUTTS, B.A. 8vo., illustrated by upwards of 300 engravings, 12s.

THE CROSS AND THE SERPENT. Being a brief History of the Triumph of the Cross, through a long
series of ages, in Prophecy, Types, and Fulfilment. By the Rev. WILLIAM HASLAM, Perpetual Curate
of St. Michael's Baldiu, Cornwall. 12mo., with numerous woodcuts, 5s.

SOME OF THE FIVE HUNDRED POINTS OF GOOD HUSBANDRY, As well for the Champion or open Country,
as also for the Woodland or several, mixed in every month with Huswifery, over and above the
Book of Huswifery, with many lessons both profitable and not unpleasant to the reader, once
set forth by THOMAS TUSSER, Gentleman, now newly corrected and edited, and heartily commended
to all true lovers of country life and honest thrift. 16mo. 2s. 6d.

       *       *       *       *       *

JOHN HENRY PARKER, OXFORD AND LONDON. 1850.

