We have a way of nicknaming a new writer after one of his most celebrated predecessors whom
we imagine him to resemble, and then we find fault with him for not having all the qualities
of an author whom he probably has no desire to imitate. False friends of T.W. Robertson called
him the "modern Sheridan." Few writers are more dissimilar. Robertson in his dialogue and construction
imitated the modern French dramatists; Sheridan, the old English, Congreve, Farquhar and Wycherley.
Robertson especially delighted in love-scenes--there are generally two at least in each of
his comedies: I cannot remember one in any of Sheridan's. The dialogue of the author of the
School for Scandal is artificial and glittering--that of the author of School is generally
more natural, and always less brilliant. They have, however, one point in common: they both
practiced Molière's maxim, Je prends mon bien où je le trouve. They both unhesitatingly plagiarized.
Robertson in particular easily assimilated foreign matter. He turned Le Dégel and Les Ganaches
of M. Sardou into A Rapid Thaw and Progress. David Garrick was taken from Dr. Robin, a French
play, itself imitated from the German. Home closely follows L'Aventurière of M. Émile Augier.
Madame de Girardin's La Joie fait peur, previously translated by Mr. G.H. Lewes as Sunshine
through the Clouds, gave Robertson the situation of the last act of War: Mr. Dion Boucicault
has since deftly adapted the same delightful little piece under the name of Kerry, or Night
and Morning. The Cinderella-like plot of School is taken from the Aschenbrödel of Roderick
Benedix: the school examination was suggested by a French vaudeville, En classe, mesdemoiselles!
The part of Beau Farintosh is a weak revival of Garrick's Lord Chalkstone and Colman and Garrick's
Lord Ogleby; and the strong situation in the fourth act is imitated from Les Beaux Messieurs
de Bois-Doré of George Sand.

But Robertson is decidedly strongest when he walks without crutches. His own original plays,
Society, Caste, Ours, are by far his best. A foreign support made him limp. Of all his adaptations,
home alone is really good: most of the others failed. Although that cosmopolitan mosaic School
has been the most successful of his pieces in London--it has passed its five hundredth night--it
is by no means the best. Success is not necessarily a test of real merit. Evidently, School
has the elements of popularity, although it is a very weak piece, although it is full of foreign
matter, and although it violates that most necessary rule of dramatic art, declaring no play
should contain an effect, a line, a scene or an act which does not bear on the end in view
by developing either the characters or the action. The entire second act, containing the farcical
examination-scene, is useless. Robertson again sinned in this way in the Nightingale: although
it had no effect on the plot, although it was entirely unnecessary, he introduced a pretty
tableau representing the heroine, a lovely prima-donna, singing under the silver moonbeams
in a boat rocked to and fro by the waves.

