Soups are nearly always good in Germany, and some of the best are not known in England. The
dried green corn so much used for soup in South Germany can, however, be bought in London from
the German provision merchants, so at the end of this greedy chapter I will give a recipe for
making it. Nudelsuppe of strong chicken stock and home-made Nudeln used to be what the Berliner
called his roast goose--"eine jute Jabe Jottes," but the degenerate Germans of to-day buy tasteless
manufactured Nudeln instead of rolling out their own. Nudeln are the German form of macaroni,
but when properly made they are better than any macaroni can be. If you have been brought up
in an old-fashioned German ménage, and, as a child likes to do, peeped into the kitchen sometimes,
you will remember seeing large sheets of something as thin and yellow as chamois leather hung
on a clothes horse to dry. Then you knew that there would be Nudeln for your dinner, either
narrow ones in soup, or wider ones boiled in water and sprinkled with others cut as fine as
vermicelli and fried brown in butter. The paste is troublesome to make. It begins with a deceptive
simplicity. Take four whole eggs and four tablespoonsful of milk if you want enough for ten
people, says the cookery book, and make a light dough of it with a knife in a basin. Anyone
can do that, you find. But then you must put your dough on the pastry board, and work in more
flour as you knead it with your hands. "The longer you knead and the stiffer the dough is the
better your Nudeln will be," continues the cookery book. But the next operation is to cut the
dough into four, and roll out each portion as thin as paper, and no one who has not seen German
Nudeln before they are cooked can believe that this is actually done. It is no use to give
the rest of the recipe for drying them, rolling each piece loosely and cutting it into strips
and boiling them with salt in water. If you told your English cook to make you Nudeln she would
despise it for a foreign mess, and bring you something as thick as a pancake. If you want them
you had better get them in a box from a provision merchant, as the Hausfrau herself does nowadays.

English people often say that there is no good meat to be had in Germany. I would say that
there is no good mutton, and a great deal of poor coarse beef. But the Filetbraten that you
can get from the best butchers is excellent. It is a long roll of undercut of beef, so long
that it seems to be sold by the yard. If you cook it in the English way, says my German cookery
book, you rub it well with salt and pepper and baste it with butter; while the gravy is made
with flour, mushrooms, cream, and extract of beef. I should like to see the expression of the
English plain cook if she was told to baste her beef with butter and make her gravy for it
with mushrooms. I once came back from Germany with a new idea for gravy, and tried it on a
cook who seemed to think that gravy was made by upsetting a kettle over a joint and then adding
lumps of flour.

"My sister's cook always puts an onion in the tin with a joint," I said tentatively, for I
was not very hopeful. I know that there is always some insuperable objection to anything not
consecrated by tradition.

"It gives the gravy a flavour," I went on,--"not a strong flavour"--

I stopped. I waited for the objection.

"We couldn't do that HERE," said the cook.

"Why not?--We have tins and we have onions."

"It would spoil the dripping. What could I do with dripping as tasted of onion?"

I had never thought of that, and so I had never asked my sister what was done in her household
with dripping as tasted with onion.

"I should think," I said slowly, "that it could be used to baste the next joint."

"Then that would taste of onion," said the cook, "and I should have no dripping when I wanted it."

I have always thought dripping a dull subject, and I know that it is an explosive one, so I
said nothing more. I went on instead to describe a piece of beef stewed in its own juices on
a bed of chopped vegetables. We actually tried that, and when it was cold it tasted agreeably
of the vegetables, and was as tender to carve as butter.

"How did you like the German beef?" I said to an Englishwoman who had been with me a great
many years.

"I didn't like it at all, M'm."

"But it was so tender."

"Yes, M'm, it made me creep," she said.

So this chapter is really of no use from one point of view. You may hear what queer things
benighted people like the Germans eat and drink, but you will never persuade your British household
to condescend to them.

Except in the coast towns, sea fish is scarce and dear all over Germany. Salt fish and fresh-water
fish are what you get, and except the trout it is not interesting. A great deal of carp is
eaten, cooked with vinegar to turn it blue, and served with horseradish or wine sauce. At a
dinner party I have seen tench given, and they were extremely pretty, like fish in old Italian
pictures, but they were not worth eating. At least a pound of fresh butter was put on each
dish of them, handed round, and you took some of it as well as a sort of mustard sauce. Perch,
pike, and eel are all eaten where nothing better is to be had; but the standing fish-course
of inland Germany is trout. Most hotels have a tank where they keep it alive till it is wanted,
and in the Black Forest the peasants catch it and peddle it, walking miles to make good sales.
We went into the garden of our hotel in the Wiesenthal one day, and found the basin of the
fountain there crammed with live trout. It was so full that you could take one in your hand
for a moment and look at its speckles, as lovely as the speckles on a thrush's breast. The
man who was carrying them on his back in a wooden water-tight satchel was having a drink, and
he had put out his fish for a drink while he rested. I have never been within reach of fresh
herrings in Germany, and have never seen them there, but smoked ones are eaten everywhere,
often with salad, or together with smoked ham and potatoes in their jackets. Neither the ham
nor the herrings are ever cooked when they have been smoked, and the ham is very tough in consequence.
The breast of a goose, too, is eaten smoked but not cooked, and is considered a great delicacy.
Poultry varies in quality a good deal. Everyone knows the little chickens that come round at
hotel dinners, all legs and bones. A German family will sit down contentedly to an old hen
that the most economical of us would only use for soup, and they will serve it roasted though
it is as tough as leather. I think it must be said that you get better fowls both in France
and England than in Germany. The German national bird is the goose. In England, if you buy
a goose your cook roasts it and sends it up, and that is all you ever know of it. In Germany
a goose is a carnival, rather as a newly killed pig is in an English farmhouse. You begin with
a stew of the giblets, you perhaps continue with the bird itself roasted and stuffed with chestnuts,
you may have a dozen different dishes made of its remains, while the fat that has basted it
you hoard and use sparingly for weeks. For instance, you cook a cabbage with a little of it
instead of with water. In South Germany, goose livers are prepared with it, and are just as
much liked as pâté de foie gras.

Hares are eaten and most carefully prepared in Germany. They are skinned in a way that an English
poulterer has been known to learn from his German customers and pronounce very troublesome,
and the back is usually served separately, larded and basted with sour cream. Vegetables are
cooked less simply than in England, and you will find the two countries disagree heatedly about
them. The Englishman does not want his peas messed up with grease and vinegar, and though he
will be too polite to say so, he will silently agree with his plain cook who says that peas
served in the pod is a dish only fit for pigs and what she has never been accustomed to; while
the German will get quite dejected over the everlasting plain boiled cabbage and potatoes he
is offered week after week in his English boarding-house. At home, he says, he is used to mountains
of fat asparagus all the spring, and he thinks slightly of your skinny green ones or of the
wooden stuff you import and pay less for because it is "foreign." He likes potatoes cooked
in twenty various ways, and when mashed he is of opinion that they should not be black or lumpy.
He wants a dozen different vegetables dished up round one joint of beef, and in summer salads
of various kinds on various occasions, and not your savage mixed salad with a horrible sauce
poured out of a bottle; furniture polish he believes it to be from its colour. In the autumn
he expects chestnuts cooked with gravy and vegetables, or made into light puddings; and apple
sauce, he assures you, should be a creamy white, and as smooth as a well made purée. If he
is of the South he would like a Mehlspeise after his meat, Spetzerle if he comes from Würtemberg;
one of a hundred different dishes if he is a Bavarian. He will not allow that your national
milk puddings take their place. If he is a North German his Leibgericht may be Rote Grütze.
This is eaten enormously all over Denmark and North Germany in summer, and is nothing in the
world but a ground rice or sago mould made with fruit juice instead of milk. The old-fashioned
way was to squeeze raspberries and currants through a cloth till you had a quart of pure juice,
which you then boiled with 4 oz. ground rice and sugar to taste, stirring carefully lest it
should burn, and stirring patiently so that the rice should be well cooked. But where fruit
is dear you can make excellent Rote Grütze by stewing the fruit first with a little water and
straining off the juice. A quart of currants and a pound of raspberries should give you a good
quart mould. The Danes make it of rhubarb and plum juice in the same way; and my German cookery
book gives a recipe for Grüne Grütze made with green gooseberries, but I tried that once and
found it quite inferior to our own gooseberry fool.

Food is so much a matter of taste and custom, that it seems absurd to make dogmatic remarks
about the superiority of one kitchen to another. If you like cold mutton, boiled potatoes and
rice pudding, most days in the week, you like them and there is an end of it. The one thing
you can say for certain is that to cook for you requires neither skill nor pains, while to
cook for a German family, even if it lives plainly and poorly, takes time and trouble. In trying
to compare the methods of two nations, one must naturally be careful to compare households
on the same social plane; and an English household that lives on cold mutton and rice pudding
is certainly a plain and probably a poor one. In well-to-do English households you get the
best food in the world as far as raw material goes, but it must be said that you often get
poor cooking. It passes quite unnoticed too. No one seems to mind thick soups that are too
thick and gravies that are tasteless, and melted butter like Stickphast paste, and savouries
quite acrid with over much vinegar and anchovy. I once saw a whole company of English people
contentedly eat a dish of hot scones that had gone wrong. They tasted of strong yellow soap.
But I once saw a company of Germans eat bad fish and apparently like it. They were sea soles
handed round in a Swiss hotel, and they should by rights have been buried the day before. I
thought of Ottilie von Schlippenschlopp and the oysters. But the soles were carefully cooked,
and served with an elaborate sauce.

       *       *       *       *       *

GREEN CORN SOUP.--For six people take 7 oz. of green corn: wash it well in hot water, and cook
it until it is quite soft in stock or salt water. Put it through a sieve, add boiling stock,
and serve with fried slice of bread or with small semolina dumplings.

GREEN CORN SOUP.--Another way. For six people take 5-½ oz. of green corn, wash it well in hot
water, and let it simmer for a few minutes with a little stock and 1-½ oz. butter. Then add
strong stock, and let it simmer slowly with the lid on till the corn is soft. Then stir a tablespoonful
of fine flour with half a cupful of milk, and add it to the soup, stirring all the time. This
must then cook an hour longer. When ready to serve, mix the yolks of two eggs with a little
sour cream, and add the soup carefully so that it is not curdled. The soup is not strained
through a sieve when it is served without dumplings.

The little dumplings are first cooked as a panada of semolina, butter, milk and egg, and then
dropped into the soup and cooked in it for ten minutes.

CHAPTER XVI

SHOPS AND MARKETS

Berlin people compare their Wertheim with the Bon Marché at Paris, or with Whiteley's in London;
only always adding that Wertheim is superior to any emporium in France or England. So it really
is in one way. A great artist designed it, and the outside of the building is plain and stately,
a most refreshing contrast to most Berlin architecture. On the ground floor there is a high
spacious hall that is splendid when it is lighted up at night, and a staircase leads up and
down from here to the various departments, all decorated soberly and pleasantly, mostly with
wood. You can buy almost anything you want at Wertheim's, from the furniture of your house
to a threepenny pair of cotton mittens with a thumb and no fingers. You can see tons of the
most hideous rubbish there, and you can find a corner reserved for original work, done by two
or three artists whose names are well known in Germany. For instance, Wertheim exhibits the
very clever curious "applications" done by Frau Katy Münchhausen, groups of monkeys, storks,
cocks and hens, and other animals, drawn with immense spirit and life on cloth, cut out and
then machined on a background of another colour. The machining has a bad sound, I admit, but
for all that the "applications" are enchanting. Wertheim, too, shows some good furniture; he
sells theatre tickets, books, fruit, groceries, Liberty cushions, embroideries, soaps, perfumes,
toys, ironmongery, china, glass, as well as everything that can be called drapery. He has a
tea-room as well as a large general refreshment-room, where you can get ices, iced coffee,
beer, all kinds of sandwiches, and the various Torten Germans make so very much better than
other people. In this room no money is wasted on waiters or waitresses, and no one expects
to be tipped. You fetch what you want from a long bar running along two sides of the room,
and divided into short stretches, each selling its own stuff; you pay at the counter, and you
carry your ice or your cake to any little marble-topped table you choose. The advantage of
the plan is that you do not have to wait till you catch the eye of a waitress determined not
to look your way: the disadvantage is that you have to perform the difficult feat of carrying
a full cup or a full glass through a crowd. Whatever you buy at the counter is sure to be good,
but if all you could get was a Mugby Junction bun you would have to eat it after the exhausting
process of buying a yard of ribbon or a few picture postcards at Wertheim's.

To begin with, there are no chairs. You cannot sit down. On a hot summer morning, when you
have perhaps been to the market already, you go to the Leipziger Strasse for theatre tickets,
a pair of gloves, and two or three small odds and ends. On the ground floor you see gloves,
innumerable boxes of them besieged by a pushing, determined crowd of women. The shop ladies
in any coloured blouses look hot and weary, but try to serve six customers at once. When you
have chosen what you want, and know exactly how sharp the elbows to left and right of you are,
you see your lady walk off with your most pushful neighbour and the pair of three-penny gloves
she has after much argument agreed to buy; for at Wertheim's you cannot depart with so much
as a halfpenny postcard till it has passed through three pairs of hands besides your own. First
the shop lady must deposit it with a bill at the cashier's desk. Then, when the cashier can
attend to you, you pay for it. Then you may wait any time until the third person concerned
will do it up in paper and string. This last proceeding is often so interminably delayed that
if you were not in Germany you would snatch at what you have paid for and make off. But the
Polizei alone knows what would happen if you ran your head against the established pedantry
of things in the city of the Spree. You would probably find yourself in prison for Beamtenbeleidigung
or lèse majesté. "The Emperor is a fool," said some disloyal subject in a public place. "To
prison with him," screamed every horror-struck official. "Off with his head!" "But I meant
the Emperor of China," protested the sinner. "That's impossible," said the officials in chorus.
"Anyone who says the Emperor is a fool means our Emperor." And an official spirit seems to
encroach on the business one, and drill its very customers while it anxiously serves them.
For instance, the arrangements for sending what you buy are most tiresome and difficult to
understand at Wertheim's. His carts patrol the streets, and your German friends assure you
that he sends anything. You find that if you shop with a country card the things entered on
it will arrive; but if you buy a bulky toy or some heavy books and pay for them in their departments,
you meet with fuss and refusal when you ask as a matter of course to have them sent. It can
be done if your goods have cost enough, but not if you have only spent two or three shillings.
It is the fashion in England just now for every man who writes about Germans to say that they
are immensely ahead of us in business matters. I cannot judge of them in their factories and
warehouses, but I am sure they are behind us in their shops. A woman cannot live three hundred
miles from Berlin and get everything she wants from Wertheim delivered by return and carriage
free. Nor will he supply her with an immense illustrated catalogue and a book of order forms
addressed to his firm, so that the trouble of shopping from a distance is reduced to a minimum.
In England you can do your London shopping as easily, promptly, and cheaply from a Scotch or
a Cornish village as you can from a Surrey suburb.

In most German towns you still find the shops classified on the old lines. You go to one for
drapery, and to another for linen, and to another for small wares, and to yet another for ribbons.
There are sausage shops and chocolate shops, and in Berlin there are shops for the celebrated
Berlin Baumkuchen. There are a great many cellar shops all over Germany, and these are mostly
restaurants, laundries, and greengrocers. The drinking scene in Faust when Mephisto made wine
flow from the table takes place in Auerbach's Keller, a cellar restaurant still in existence
in Leipzig. The lower class of cellar takes the place in Germany of our slums, and the worst
of them are regular thieves' kitchens known to the police. There is an admirable description
of life in a cellar shop in Klara Viebig's Das Tägliche Brot. The woman who keeps it has a
greengrocery business and a registry office for servants, and as such people go is respectable;
but I recommend the book to my countrymen who go to Berlin as officials or journalists for
ten days, are taken over various highly polished public institutions, and come back to tell
us that the Germans are every man jack of them clean, prosperous, well mannered, and healthy.
It is true that German municipal government is striving rather splendidly to bring this state
of things about, but they have plenty of work before them still. These cellar shops, for instance,
are more fit for mushroom growing than for human nurseries, and yet the picture in the novel
of the family struggling with darkness and disease there can still be verified in most of the
old streets of Germany.

When our English journalists write column after column about the dangerous explosive energy
and restlessness of modern Germany, I feel sure that they must be right, and yet I wish they
could have come shopping with me a year or two ago in a small Black Forest town. One of us
wanted a watch key and the other a piece of tape, and we set off light-heartedly to buy them,
for we knew that there was a draper and a watchmaker in the main street. We knew, too, that
in South Germany everyone is first dining and then asleep between twelve and two, so we waited
till after two and then went to the watchmaker's. There was no shop window, and when, after
ringing two or three times, we were let in we found there was no shop. We sat down in a big
cool sitting-room, beautifully clean and tidy. The watchmaker's wife appeared in due course,
looked at us with friendly interest, asked us where we came from, and how long we meant to
stay, wondered if we knew her cousin Johannes Müller, a hairdresser in Islington, discussed
the relative merits of emigration to England and America, offered us some cherries from a basketful
on the table, and at last admitted unwillingly that her husband was not at home, and that she
herself knew not whether he had watch keys. So we set off to buy our tape, and again found
a private room, an amiable family, but no one who felt able to sell anything. It seemed an
odd way of doing business we said to our landlord, but he saw nothing odd in it. Most people
were busy with their hay, he explained. Towards the end of a week we caught our watchmaker,
and obtained a key, but he would not let us pay for it. He said it was one of an old collection,
and of no use to him. The etiquette of shopping in Germany seems to us rather topsy-turvy at
first. In a small shop the proprietor is as likely as not to conduct business with a cigar
in his mouth, even if you are a lady, but if you are a man he will think you a boor if you
omit to remove your hat as you cross his threshold. Whether you are a man, woman, or child,
you will wish him good-morning or good-evening before you ask for what you want, and he will
answer you before he asks what your commands are. If you are a woman, about as ignorant as
most women, and with a humble mind, you will probably have no fixed opinion about the question
of free or fair trade. You may even, if you are very humble, recognise that it is not quite
the simple question Dick, Tom, and Harry think it is. But you will know for certain that when
you want ribbons for a hat you had better buy them in Kensington and not in Frankfurt, and
that though there are plenty of cheap materials in Germany, the same quality would be cheaper
still in London. Everything to do with women's clothing is dearer there than here. So is stationery,
so are groceries, so are the better class of fancy goods. But the Germans, say the Fair Traders,
are a prosperous nation, and it is because their manufactures are protected. This may be so.
I can only look at various quite small unimportant trifles, such as ribbons, for instance,
or pewter vases or blotting-paper or peppermint drops. I know that a German woman either wears
a common ribbon on her hat, or pays twice as much as I do for a good one; she is content with
one pewter vase where your English suburban drawing-room packs twenty into one corner, with
twenty silver frames and vases near them. A few years ago the one thing German blotting-paper
refused to do was to absorb ink, and it was so dear that in all small country inns and in old-fashioned
offices you were expected to use sand instead. The sand was kept beside the ink in a vessel
that had a top like a pepper pot; and it was more amusing than blotting-paper, but not as efficacious.
As for the peppermint drops, they used to be a regular export from families living in London
to families living in Germany. They were probably needed after having goose and chestnuts for
dinner, and ours were twice as large as the German ones and about six times as strong, so no
doubt they were like our blotting-paper, and performed what they engaged to perform more thoroughly.

But shops of any kind are dull compared with an open market held in one of the many ancient
market places of Germany. Photographs of Freiburg give a bird's-eye view of the town with the
minster rising from the midst of its red roofs; but there is just a peep at the market which
is being held at the foot of the minster. On the side hidden by the towering cathedral there
are some of the oldest houses in Freiburg. It is a large crowded market on certain days of
the week, and full of colour and movement. The peasants who come to it from the neighbouring
valleys wear bright-coloured skirts and headgear, and in that part of Germany fruit is plentiful,
so that all through the summer and autumn the market carts and barrows are heaped with cherries,
wild strawberries, plums, apricots, peaches, and grapes in their season. The market place itself,
and even the steps of the minster and of the surrounding houses, are crowded with the peasants
and their produce, and with the leisurely servants and housewives bargaining for the day's
supplies. From a view of the market place at Cottbus in Brandenburg you may get a better idea
of the people at a German market; the servants with their umbrellas, their big baskets, their
baggy blouses and no hats, the middle class housewife with a hat or a bonnet, and a huge basket
on her arm, a nursemaid in peasant costume stooping over her perambulator, other peasants in
costume at the stalls, and two of the farm carts that are in some districts yoked oftener with
oxen than with horses. There is naturally great variety in the size and character of markets,
according to the needs they supply. In Hamburg the old names show you that there were separate
markets for separate trades, so that you went to the Schweinemarkt when you wanted pigs, and
to some other part of the city when you wanted flowers and fruit. In Berlin there are twelve
covered markets besides the open ones, and they are all as admirably clean, tidy, and unpoetical
as everything else is in that spick and span, swept and garnished Philistine city. The green
gooseberries there are marked "unripe fruit" by order of the police, so that no one should
think they were ripe and eat them uncooked; and you can buy rhubarb nowadays, a vegetable the
modern Berliner eats without shuddering. But in a Berlin market you buy what you need as quickly
as you can and come away. There is nothing to tempt you, nothing picturesque, nothing German,
if German brings to your mind a queer mixture of poetry and music, gabled, tumbledown houses,
storks' nests, toys, marvellous cakes and sweets and the kindliest of people. If you are so
modern that German means nothing to you but drill and hustle, the roar of factories and the
pride of monster municipal ventures, then you may see the markets of Berlin and rest content
with them. They will show you what you already know of this day's Germany. But my household
treasures gathered here and there in German markets did not have one added to their number
in Berlin.

"That!" said a German friend when I showed her a yellow pitcher dabbed with colour, and having
a spout, a handle, and a lid,--"that! I would not have it in my kitchen."

It certainly only cost the third of a penny, but it lived with honour in my drawing-room till
it shared the fate of all clay, and came in two in somebody's hands. The blue and grey bellied
bottle, one of those in which the Thuringian peasants carry beer to the field, cost three halfpence,
but the butter-dish with a lid of the same ware only cost a halfpenny. There is always an immense
heap of this rough grey and blue pottery in a South German market, and it is much prettier
than the more ornate Coblenz ware we import and sell at high prices. So is the deep red earthenware
glazed inside and rough outside and splashed with colours. You find plenty of it at the Leipziger
Messe, that historical fair that used to be as important to Western Europe as Nijni Novgorod
is to Russia and the East. To judge from modern German trade circulars, it is still of considerable
importance, and the buildings in which merchants of all countries display their wares have
recently been renovated and enlarged. Out of doors the various market-places are covered with
little stalls selling cheap clothing, cheap toys, jewellery, sweets, and gingerbread; all the
heterogeneous rubbish you have seen a thousand times at German fairs, and never tire of seeing
if a fair delights you.

But better than the Leipziger Messe, better even than a summer market at Freiburg or at Heidelburg,
is a Christmas market in any one of the old German cities in the hill country, when the streets
and the open places are covered with crisp clean snow, and the mountains are white with it,
and the moon shines on the ancient houses, and the tinkle of sledge bells reaches you when
you escape from the din of the market, and look down at the bustle of it from some silent place,
a high window perhaps, or the high empty steps leading into the cathedral. The air is cold
and still, and heavy with the scent of the Christmas trees brought from the forest for the
pleasure of the children. Day by day you see the rows of them growing thinner, and if you go
to the market on Christmas Eve itself you will find only a few trees left out in the cold.
The market is empty, the peasants are harnessing their horses or their oxen, the women are
packing up their unsold goods. In every home in the city one of the trees that scented the
open air a week ago is shining now with lights and little gilded nuts and apples, and is helping
to make that Christmas smell, all compact of the pine forest, wax candles, cakes, and painted
toys, you must associate so long as you live with Christmas in Germany.

CHAPTER XVII

EXPENSES OF LIFE

A few years ago a German economist reckoned that there were only 250,000 families in the empire
whose incomes exceeded £450, a year. There were nearly three million households living on incomes
ranging from £135 to £450, and nearly four millions with more than £90 but less than £135.
But there were upwards of five millions whose incomes fell below £45. Since that estimate was
made, Germany has grown in wealth and prosperity; and in the big cities there is great expenditure
and luxury amongst some classes, especially amongst the Jews who can afford it, and amongst
the officers of the army who as a rule cannot. But the bulk of the nation is poor, and class
for class lives on less than people do in England. For instance, the headmaster of a school
gets about £100 a year in a small town, and from £200 to £300 in a big one. A lieutenant gets
about £65 a year, and an additional £12 if he has no private means. His uniform and mess expenses
are deducted from this. He is not allowed to marry on his official income, unless he or his
wife has an income of £125 in addition to his pay, as even in Germany an army man can hardly
keep up appearances and support a wife and family on less than £190 a year. It is quite common
to hear of a clerk living on £40 or £50, or of a doctor who knows his work and yet can only
make £150. The official posts so eagerly sought after are poorly paid; so are servants, agricultural
labourers, and artisans. When you are in Germany, if you are interested in questions of income
and expenditure, you are always trying to make up your mind why a German family can live as
successfully on £400 as an English family on £700, for you know that rent and taxes are high
and food and clothing dear. If you are a woman and think about it a great deal, and look at
family life in as many places and classes as you can, you finally decide that there are three
chief reasons for the great difference between the cost of life in England and Germany. In
the first place, labour is cheaper there; in the second place, the standard of luxury and even
of comfort is lower; in the third place, the women are thriftier and more industrious than
Englishwomen. This, too, leaves out of account the most important fact, that the State educates
a man's children for next to nothing; and drills the male ones into shape when they serve in
the army.

Servants, we have seen, get lower wages than they do here, but the real economy is in the smaller
number kept. Where we pay and maintain half a dozen a German family will be content with two,
and the typical small English household that cannot face life without its plain cook in the
kitchen and its parlour-maid in her black gown at the front door, will throughout the German
Empire get along quite serenely with one young woman to cook and clean and do everything else
required. If she is a "pearl" she probably makes the young ladies' frocks and irons the master's
shirts to fill in her time. Germans do not trouble about the black frock and the white apron
at the front door. They will even open the door to you themselves if the "girl" is washing
or cooking. A female servant is always a "girl" in Germany. I once heard a young Englishwoman
who had not been long in Germany ask an elderly acquaintance to recommend a dressmaker.

"The best one in ---- is Fräulein Müller," said the elderly acquaintance.

"But she is too expensive," said the Englishwoman, and she glanced across the room at the lady's
nieces, who were neatly and plainly dressed. "Do girls go to Fräulein Müller?"

"Girls! Certainly not," said the lady, with the expression Germans keep for the insane English
it is their fate to encounter occasionally.

"But that is what I want to know, ... a dressmaker girls go to ... girls with a small allowance."

"I am afraid I cannot help you," said the lady stiffly. "I know nothing about the dressmakers
girls employ."

"Perhaps Miss Brown means 'young girls,'" said one of the nieces, who was not as slow in the
uptake as her aunt, and it turned out that this was what Miss Brown did mean; but she had not
known that in everyday life Mädchen without an adjective usually means a servant. She had heard
of Das Mädchen aus der Fremde and Der Tod und das Mädchen, and blundered.

I once made a German exceedingly angry by saying that the standard of comfort was higher in
England than in Germany. She said it was lower. When you have lived in both countries and with
both peoples you arrive in the end at having your opinions, and knowing that each one you hold
will be disputed on one side or the other. "Find out what means Gemütlichkeit, and do it without
fail," says Hans Breitmann, but Gemütlichkeit and comfort are not quite interchangeable words.
Our word is more material. When we talk of English comfort we are thinking of our open fires,
our solid food, our thick carpets, and our well-drilled smart-looking servants. The German
is thinking of the spiritual atmosphere in his own house, the absence, as he says, of ceremony
and the freedom of ideas. He talks of a man being gemütlich in his disposition, kindly, that
is, and easy going. We talk of a house being comfortable, and when we do use the word for a
person usually mean that she is rather stout. When both you and the German have decided that
"comfort" for the moment shall mean material comfort, you will disagree about what is necessary
to yours. You must have your bathroom, your bacon for breakfast, your table laid precisely,
your meals served to the moment, your young women in black or your staid men to give them to
you, and your glowing fires in as many rooms as possible. The German cares for none of these
things. He would rather have his half-pound of odds and ends from the provision shop than your
boiled cod, roast mutton, and apple-tart; he wants his stove, his double windows, his good
coffee, his kräftige Kost, and freedom to smoke in every corner of his house. He is never tired
of telling you that, though you have more political freedom in England, you are groaning under
a degree of social tyranny that he could not endure for a day. The Idealist, quoted in a former
chapter, is for ever talking of the "hypocrisy" of English life, and her burning anxiety is
to save the children of certain Russian and German exiles from contact with it. Another German
tells you that our system of collegiate life for women would not suit her countryfolk, because
they are more "individual." Each one likes to choose her own rooms, and live as she pleases.
The next German has suffered torments in London because he had to sit down to certain meals
at certain hours instead of eating anything he fancied at any time he felt hungry, and I suppose
it is only your British Heuchelei that leads you to smile politely instead of adding, "As the
beasts of the field do." But I am always mazed, as the Cornish say, when Germans talk of their
freedom from convention. In Hamburg I was once seriously rebuked by an old friend for carrying
a book through the streets that was not wrapped up in paper. In Hamburg that is one of the
things people don't do. In Mainz and in many other German towns there are certain streets where
one side, for reasons no one can explain, is taboo at certain hours of the day; not of the
night, but of the day. You may go to a music shop at midday to buy a sonata, and find, if you
are a girl, that you have committed a crime. The intercourse between young people outside their
homes is hedged round with convention. German titles of address are so absurdly formal that
Germans laugh at them themselves. Their ceremonies in connection with anniversaries and family
events bristle with convention, and offer pitfalls at every step to the stranger or the blunderer.
It is true that men do not dress for dinner every day, and wax indignant over the necessity
of doing so for the theatre in England; but there are various occasions when they wear evening
dress in broad daylight, and an Englishman considers that an uncomfortable convention. The
truth is, that these questions of comfort and ceremonial are not questions that should be discussed
in the hostile dogmatic tone adopted in both countries by those who only know their own. The
ceremonies that are foreign to you impress you, while those you have been used to all your
life have become a second nature. An Englishwoman feels downright uncomfortable in her high
stuff gown at night, and a German lady brought up at one of the great German Courts told me
that when she stayed in an English country house and put on what she called a ball dress for
dinner every night, she felt like a fool.

