The daily life of Burns, in his latter years at Dumfries, is described in the following terms:--'He
has daily duties in stamping leather, gauging malt-vats, noting the manufacture of candles,
and granting licences for the transport of spirits. These duties he performs with fidelity
to the king and not too much rigour to the subject. As he goes about them in the forenoon,
in his respectable suit of dark clothes, and with his little boy Robert perhaps holding by
his hand and conversing with him on his school-exercises, he is beheld by the general public
with respect, as a person in some authority, the head of a family, and also as a man of literary
note; and people are heard addressing him deferentially as Mr Burns--a form of his name which
is still prevalent in Dumfries. At a leisure hour before dinner, he will call at some house
where there is a piano--such as Mr Newall, the writer's--and there have some young miss to
touch over for him one or two of his favourite Scotch airs, such as, the Sutor's Daughter,
in order that he may accommodate to it some stanzas that have been humming through his brain
for the last few days. For another half hour, he will be seen standing at the head of some
cross street with two or three young fellows, bankers' clerks, or "writer-chiels" commencing
business, whom he is regaling with sallies of his bright but not always innocent wit--indulging
there, indeed, in a strain of conversation so different from what had passed in the respectable
elderly writer's mansion, that, though he were not the same man, it could not have been more
different. Later in the day, he takes a solitary walk along the Dock Green by the river side,
or to Lincluden, and composes the most part of a new song; or he spends a couple of hours at
his folding-down desk, between the fire and window in his parlour, transcribing in his bold
round hand the remarks which occur to him on Mr Thomson's last letter, together with some of
his own recently composed songs. As a possible variation upon this routine, he has been seen
passing along the old bridge of Devorgilla Balliol, about three o'clock, with his sword-cane
in his hand, and his black beard unusually well shaven, being on his way to dine with John
Syme at Ryedale, where young Mr Oswald of Auchincruive is to be of the party--or maybe in the
opposite direction, to partake of the luxuries of John Bushby, at Tinwald Downs. But we presume
a day when no such attraction invades. The evening is passing quietly at home, and pleasant-natured
Jean has made herself neat, and come in at six o'clock to give him his tea--a meal he always
takes. At this period, however, there is something remarkably exciting in the proceedings of
the French army under Pichegru; or Fox, Adam, or Sheridan, is expected to make an onslaught
upon the ministry in the House of Commons. The post comes into Dumfries at eight o'clock at
night. There is always a group of gentlemen on the street, eager to hear the news. Burns saunters
out to the High Street, and waits amongst the rest. The intelligence of the evening is very
interesting. The Convention has decreed the annexation of the Netherlands--or the new treason-bill
has passed the House of Lords, with only the feeble protest of Bedford, Derby, and Lauderdale.
These things merit some discussion. The trades-lads go off to strong ale in the closes; the
gentlemen slide in little groups into the King's Arms Hotel or the George. As for Burns, he
will just have a single glass and a half-hour's chat beside John Hyslop's fire, and then go
quietly home. So he is quickly absorbed in the little narrow close where that vintner maintains
his state. There, however, one or two friends have already established themselves, all with
precisely the same virtuous intent. They heartily greet the bard. Meg or John bustles about
to give him his accustomed place, which no one ever disputes. And, somehow, the debate on the
news of the evening leads on to other chat of an interesting kind. Then Burns becomes brilliant,
and his friends give him the applause of their laughter. One jug succeeds another--mirth abounds--and
it is not till Mrs Hyslop has declared that they are going beyond all bounds, and she positively
will not give them another drop of hot water, that our bard at length bethinks him of returning
home, where Bonnie Jean has been lost in peaceful slumber for three hours, after vainly wondering
"what can be keeping Robert out so late the nicht." Burns gets to bed a little excited and
worn out, but not in a state to provoke much remark from his amiable partner, in whom nothing
can abate the veneration with which she has all along regarded him. And though he beds at a
latish hour, most likely he is up next morning between seven and eight, to hear little Robert
his day's lesson in Cæsar, or, if the season invites, to take a half-hour's stroll before breakfast
along the favourite Dock Green.'

Whenever a female of any rank secured the goodwill of Burns, he was sure to compliment her
in verse, and it was always by putting her into the light of an adored mistress. In his latter
days, when declining in health, an amiable young girl, sister of one of his brother officers,
obtained his friendly regard by endeavouring to lighten the labours of housekeeping to his
wife, then also in a delicate state. The lady, who still lives, 'relates that, one morning
she had a call from the poet, when he offered, if she would play him any tune of which she
was fond, and for which she desired new verses, to gratify her in her wish to the best of his
ability. She placed herself at the pianoforte, and played over several times the air of an
old song beginning with the words--

    The robin cam to the wren's nest,
      And keekit in, and keekit in:
    O weel's me on your auld pow!
      Wad ye be in, wad ye be in?
    Ye'se ne'er get leave to lie without,
      And I within, and I within,
    As lang's I hae an auld clout,
      To row ye in, to row ye in.

'As soon as his ear got accustomed to the melody, Burns sat down, and in a very few minutes
he produced the beautiful song:

    OH, WERT THOU IN THE CAULD BLAST.

'The anecdote is a trivial one in itself; but we feel that the circumstances--the deadly illness
of the poet, the beneficent worth of Miss Lewars, and the reasons for his grateful desire of
obliging her--give it a value. It is curious, and something more, to connect it with the subsequent
musical fate of the song, for many years after, when Burns had become a star in memory's galaxy,
and Jessy Lewars was spending her quiet years of widowhood over her book or her knitting in
a little parlour in Maxwelltown, the verses attracted the regard of Felix Mendelssohn, who
seems to have divined the peculiar feeling beyond all common love which Burns breathed through
them. By that admirable artist, so like our great bard in a too early death, they were married
to an air of exquisite pathos, "such as the meeting soul may pierce." Burns, Jessy Lewars,
Felix Mendelssohn--genius, goodness, and tragic melancholy, all combined in one solemn and
profoundly affecting association!'

In numberless instances, the hitherto loosely stated facts of Burns's life are corrected in
the present work, partly through the accuracy of a strictly historical arrangement, and partly
by direct reference to written documents. On account of the value of dates in placing the facts
and compositions in that order which gives so much illustration to the character of the poet,
the editor has taken what might appear in other circumstances a pedantic degree of pains on
that score. Of this we have an example in regard to the chronology of Burns's attachment to
Highland Mary. To fix that affair as occurring in the summer of 1786--an episode in the connection
of the poet with the young woman who ultimately became his wife--it is necessary to establish
the death of Mary as occurring about the 20th of October that year. This is done partly by
reference to a register of burial sites in a church-yard, and partly by a chain of curious
evidence respecting the day which Burns celebrated three years after as the anniversary of
the event. As the twilight deepened, he grew sad about something, and wandered out into the
barn-yard, to which she followed him, entreating him in vain to observe that frost had set
in, and to return to the fireside. She finally found him there stretched on a mass of straw,
with his eyes fixed on a beautiful planet, which shone like another moon. He was engaged at
that moment in apostrophising the soul of Mary. Out of this anecdote, the editor of the present
work contrives to obtain evidence as to the true date in the following manner:--

'In the first place, the harvest was late that year. We find in the Scottish newspapers of
the time, that, in the middle of October, a great deal of grain was still out even in the favoured
district around Falkirk; while a letter from Sanquhar (Burns's neighbourhood), dated the 21st,
states that "while much was cut, very little was yet got in, owing to the bad weather." It
appears that harvest was commenced by the 8th of September in some districts, but was interrupted
by rains, and was not concluded till near the end of the ensuing month. Consequently, the incident
might take place in the latter part of October, and still be connected with harvest operations.
The second portion of our evidence on the subject is from one of the exact sciences, and appears
to us at once to settle the time of the day--the month--and almost the day of the month.

'It fully appears that the planet Venus is the one referred to by the poet, for the description
applies only to it. Now Venus was in conjunction with the sun, May 30, 1789, and after that
became visible as the evening-star towards the end of the summer, reaching its greatest brilliancy
in winter. It is therefore certain that the star which "loves to greet the early morn" did
not at this time "usher in the day," and consequently, so far as the time of day alluded to
in the poem is concerned, a poetical liberty was taken with truth. On the 21st of September
the sun set at six o'clock, and Venus forty-four minutes thereafter. The planet was consequently
not to be seen at that time except faintly in the twilight. But on the 21st of October the
sun set in the latitude of Ellisland at 4h 53m, and Venus 1h 3m afterwards. Consequently, Venus
would then have begun to assume a brilliant appearance during a short interval after sunset.
On that day the moon was four days old, and within eight diameters of Venus. The planet would
then of course be beginning to be dimmed by the moonlight, and this effect would go on increasing
till the moon had passed the full--that is, early in November. If, then, we are to set aside
the possibility of a later month than October, and keeping in view the all but certainty that
Mary was not buried till some time after the 12th of that month, it seems reasonable to conclude,
that the barn-yard musings of Burns took place between five and six o'clock of the evening
of some day about the 19th or 20th of October, and consequently a very short time after the
merry-meeting for the Whistle-contest at Friars' Carse.

'That a month later than October could have been the date of the incident will, I presume,
scarcely be argued for. The moon was at the full on Tuesday the 2d of November, and it could
not be till after that day that the first hour of the night would be "starry," with Venus in
full blaze. By that time, as far as we can gather from the chronicles of the time, the harvest
was past. Besides, Mrs Burns might easily mistake September for October, but scarcely for November,
a month of such different associations. On this point the temperature of the time might throw
some light, if we could be sure of the exact meaning to be attached to the phrase--"the frost
had set in." It chances that the temperature of October that year was unusually high, the average
at eight o'clock in the evening in Edinburgh being 45-1/2° Fahrenheit. The Edinburgh Advertiser
of 30th October speaks of apple-trees and bean-stalks renewing their blossoms in consequence
of the extraordinary mildness. On the 19th of October, at eight o'clock in the evening, the
thermometer indicated in Edinburgh 51°; on the 20th, at the same hour, 59°; on the 21st, 51°
again. The only approach to frost was on the 30th and 31st, when, at eight in the evening,
the thermometer was respectively at 33° and 37°. After this, it rose to a more temperate point.
Hence it becomes evident that literal frost did not then exist at any such period of the day.
Probably Mrs Burns merely thought the evening was beginning to be comparatively chilly. If
we can admit of this construction being put upon her words, I would be disposed to pitch upon
the warmest evening of the little period within which we are confined--for unless the poet
had been in a peculiarly excited state, so as to be insensible to external circumstances, which
is obviously a different thing from being in a merely pensive state, we must suppose him as
not likely to lie down in the open air after sunset, except under favour of some uncommon amount
of "ethereal mildness." Seeing, on the other hand, how positively inviting to such a procedure
would be a temperature of 59°, I leave the subject with scarcely a doubt that the composition
of To Mary in Heaven took place on Tuesday the 20th of October, and that this was consequently
the date of the death of the heroine.'

This, no doubt, seems a great muster of evidence about so small a matter; but to judge of the
rationality of its being entered upon, the reader must keep in mind the relation of the incident
to others. If it only proved that the comic drinking-song The Whistle, and To Mary in Heaven,
were written within three days of each other, it might be not altogether labour lost, for it
would establish an exceedingly curious literary anecdote. But the bearing it has on the whole
affair of Highland Mary--one of the most deeply interesting passages of Burns's life--is such
as, in our opinion, to make every other justification superfluous.

FOOTNOTES:

[2] Life and Works of Burns. Edited by Robert Chambers. 4 vols. Edinburgh: 1852.

VISIT TO THE COPPER-WORKS OF SWANSEA.

Our first glimpse of the copper-works was obtained in the 'gloaming' of a lovely night in August
last year, as we rattled over the Landore viaduct of the South Wales Railway. On each side
of us, we could behold, given out by the chimneys, innumerable flashes of lurid flame, which
rose like meteors into the atmosphere, and scattered around a brilliant light, that was seen
in the distance to blend with the waters of Swansea Bay. The scene was very beautiful, and
singularly picturesque: we could have wished our enjoyment of it prolonged; but soon the shrill
whistle, the escape-valve, and the lamps of the station, admonished us that our journey had
come to an end.

Our principal object in visiting Swansea, was to obtain some information concerning the important
business of copper-smelting, for which this port has now become so celebrated. Few of our readers,
who have not enjoyed our opportunities of seeing them, can form any accurate conception of
the vast extent and great economical value and importance of the Swansea copper-works. Indeed,
the copper trade is far from being popularly known; and the reason is obvious. Iron, which
is very widely distributed in the British islands, is invariably smelted wherever it occurs.
Copper, on the contrary, is only mined in one or two localities; and it is never manufactured
on the spot. This process is performed almost exclusively at Swansea; and hence the copper
trade of the country is confined to a few individual houses, and these are in a locality alike
remote and unfrequented by the everyday tourist.

At the period when the first copper-work was established on the banks of the Tawy, about a
century ago, Swansea was comparatively an insignificant village. It is therefore to this branch
of industry the town and port are chiefly indebted for their remarkable rise and progress.
The population in 1801 was only about 6000; while in 1851, if we include the copper-smelting
district, it had already reached the number of 40,000. The original cause of Swansea being
selected as the great seat of the copper trade, we may very briefly explain. It was early discovered
that, from the non-existence of coal in the mining districts of Cornwall and Devonshire, copper,
although raised in vast abundance, could not be profitably smelted there. In fact, it was not
until a considerable time after copper-mining was properly pursued in Cornwall, that the minerals
could be turned to a profitable account. It became apparent at length, however, both from the
large quantity of coal necessary for the reduction of copper-ores, and the great expense of
the transport, that instead of carrying coal to Cornwall to smelt the ores--the greater quantity
to the less--an opposite course must be pursued, and the ores carried to the coal districts,
and there smelted.

Now South Wales, poor in copper, is exceedingly rich in coal. Vast beds of the finest bituminous
and anthracite coal exist in rich profusion in its inexhaustible coal-fields. From its geographical
position and excellent harbour, Swansea was at once selected as the best port on the Welsh
coast in which to establish the copper-works; and accordingly, the Swansea valley was soon
planted with chimneys, furnaces, roasters, refiners, and, in short, all the necessary and costly
enginery which belongs to the vast and intricate processes of smelting copper. With such propriety
has the selection of a locality been made, that even now, out of the twenty copper-smelting
works of which the country can boast, seventeen are situated on the navigable rivers of Swansea
and its neighbourhood.

But this was not the only advantage the Cornish miners derived from this judicious step. The
ships employed to transport the ore to South Wales came back laden with coal to feed their
enormous engines; and thus a system of traffic, mutually advantageous, was originated, and
has continued to exist without interruption down to the present time, and will continue to
exist so long as copper is mined in Cornwall and smelted at Swansea.[3]

Within the last twenty years, the importation of foreign ores has become a remarkable feature
in the trade and commerce of this place. Not only is Swansea the seat of the copper trade of
this country, but it may with equal propriety be styled the copper mart of the world. Large
and valuable cargoes of ore are continually arriving at the Swansea Docks from every country
in the world where copper-mining is pursued. In 1814, there were only four vessels which traded
with foreign ports; in 1849, this number had increased to 771; the greater proportion of them
being directly engaged in the copper trade.

