"The sight of one drawn and brandished in anger were sufficient," said Dwining, "to consume
the vital powers of your chirurgeon. But who then," he added in a tone partly insinuating,
partly jeering--"who would then relieve the fiery and scorching pain which my patron now suffers,
and which renders him exasperated even with his poor servant for quoting the rules of healing,
so contemptible, doubtless, compared with the power of inflicting wounds?"

Then, as daring no longer to trifle with the mood of his dangerous patient, the leech addressed
himself seriously to salving the wound, and applied a fragrant balm, the odour of which was
diffused through the apartment, while it communicated a refreshing coolness, instead of the
burning heat--a change so gratifying to the fevered patient, that, as he had before groaned
with agony, he could not now help sighing for pleasure, as he sank back on his couch to enjoy
the ease which the dressing bestowed.

"Your knightly lordship now knows who is your friend," said Dwining; "had you yielded to a
rash impulse, and said, 'Slay me this worthless quacksalver,' where, within the four seas of
Britain, would you have found the man to have ministered to you as much comfort?"

"Forget my threats, good leech," said Ramorny, "and beware how you tempt me. Such as I brook
not jests upon our agony. See thou keep thy scoffs, to pass upon misers [that is, miserable
persons, as used in Spenser and other writers of his time, though the sense is now restricted
to those who are covetous] in the hospital."

Dwining ventured to say no more, but poured some drops from a phial which he took from his
pocket into a small cup of wine allayed with water.

"This draught," said the man of art, "is medicated to produce a sleep which must not be interrupted."

"For how long will it last?" asked the knight.

"The period of its operation is uncertain--perhaps till morning."

"Perhaps for ever," said the patient. "Sir mediciner, taste me that liquor presently, else
it passes not my lips."

The leech obeyed him, with a scornful smile. "I would drink the whole with readiness; but the
juice of this Indian gum will bring sleep on the healthy man as well as upon the patient, and
the business of the leech requires me to be a watcher."

"I crave your pardon, sir leech," said Ramorny, looking downwards, as if ashamed to have manifested
suspicion.

"There is no room for pardon where offence must not be taken," answered the mediciner. "An
insect must thank a giant that he does not tread on him. Yet, noble knight, insects have their
power of harming as well as physicians. What would it have cost me, save a moment's trouble,
so to have drugged that balm, as should have made your arm rot to the shoulder joint, and your
life blood curdle in your veins to a corrupted jelly? What is there that prevented me to use
means yet more subtle, and to taint your room with essences, before which the light of life
twinkles more and more dimly, till it expires, like a torch amidst the foul vapours of some
subterranean dungeon? You little estimate my power, if you know not that these and yet deeper
modes of destruction stand at command of my art. But a physician slays not the patient by whose
generosity he lives, and far less will he the breath of whose nostrils is the hope of revenge
destroy the vowed ally who is to favour his pursuit of it. Yet one word; should a necessity
occur for rousing yourself--for who in Scotland can promise himself eight hours' uninterrupted
repose?--then smell at the strong essence contained in this pouncet box. And now, farewell,
sir knight; and if you cannot think of me as a man of nice conscience, acknowledge me at least
as one of reason and of judgment."

So saying, the mediciner left the room, his usual mean and shuffling gait elevating itself
into something more noble, as conscious of a victory over his imperious patient.

Sir John Ramorny remained sunk in unpleasing reflections until he began to experience the incipient
effects of his soporific draught. He then roused himself for an instant, and summoned his page.

"Eviot! what ho! Eviot! I have done ill to unbosom myself so far to this poisonous quacksalver.
Eviot!"

The page entered.

"Is the mediciner gone forth?"

"Yes, so please your knighthood."

"Alone or accompanied?"

"Bonthron spoke apart with him, and followed him almost immediately--by your lordship's command,
as I understood him."

"Lackaday, yes! he goes to seek some medicaments; he will return anon. If he be intoxicated,
see he comes not near my chamber, and permit him not to enter into converse with any one. He
raves when drink has touched his brain. He was a rare fellow before a Southron bill laid his
brain pan bare; but since that time he talks gibberish whenever the cup has crossed his lips.
Said the leech aught to you, Eviot?"

"Nothing, save to reiterate his commands that your honour be not disturbed."

"Which thou must surely obey," said the knight. "I feel the summons to rest, of which I have
been deprived since this unhappy wound. At least, if I have slept it has been but for a snatch.
Aid me to take off my gown, Eviot."

"May God and the saints send you good rest, my lord," said the page, retiring after he had
rendered his wounded master the assistance required.

As Eviot left the room, the knight, whose brain was becoming more and more confused, muttered
over the page's departing salutation.

"God--saints--I have slept sound under such a benison. But now, methinks if I awake not to
the accomplishment of my proud hopes of power and revenge, the best wish for me is, that the
slumbers which now fall around my head were the forerunners of that sleep which shall return
my borrowed powers to their original nonexistence--I can argue it no farther."

Thus speaking, he fell into a profound sleep.

CHAPTER XVI.

     On Fastern's E'en when we war fou.

     Scots Song.

The night which sunk down on the sickbed of Ramorny was not doomed to be a quiet one. Two hours
had passed since curfew bell, then rung at seven o'clock at night, and in those primitive times
all were retired to rest, excepting such whom devotion, or duty, or debauchery made watchers;
and the evening being that of Shrovetide, or, as it was called in Scotland, Fastern's E'en,
the vigils of gaiety were by far the most frequented of the three.

The common people had, throughout the day, toiled and struggled at football; the nobles and
gentry had fought cocks, and hearkened to the wanton music of the minstrel; while the citizens
had gorged themselves upon pancakes fried in lard, and brose, or brewis--the fat broth, that
is, in which salted beef had been boiled, poured upon highly toasted oatmeal, a dish which
even now is not ungrateful to simple, old fashioned Scottish palates. These were all exercises
and festive dishes proper to the holiday. It was no less a solemnity of the evening that the
devout Catholic should drink as much good ale and wine as he had means to procure; and, if
young and able, that he should dance at the ring, or figure among the morrice dancers, who,
in the city of Perth, as elsewhere, wore a peculiarly fantastic garb, and distinguished themselves
by their address and activity. All this gaiety took place under the prudential consideration
that the long term of Lent, now approaching, with its fasts and deprivations, rendered it wise
for mortals to cram as much idle and sensual indulgence as they could into the brief space
which intervened before its commencement.

