John Adams Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1797

When it was first perceived, in early times, that no middle course for America remained between
unlimited submission to a foreign legislature and a total independence of its claims, men of
reflection were less apprehensive of danger from the formidable power of fleets and armies
they must determine to resist than from those contests and dissensions which would certainly
arise concerning the forms of government to be instituted over the whole and over the parts
of this extensive country. Relying, however, on the purity of their intentions, the justice
of their cause, and the integrity and intelligence of the people, under an overruling Providence
which had so signally protected this country from the first, the representatives of this nation,
then consisting of little more than half its present number, not only broke to pieces the chains
which were forging and the rod of iron that was lifted up, but frankly cut asunder the ties
which had bound them, and launched into an ocean of uncertainty.

The zeal and ardor of the people during the Revolutionary war, supplying the place of government,
commanded a degree of order sufficient at least for the temporary preservation of society.
The Confederation which was early felt to be necessary was prepared from the models of the
Batavian and Helvetic confederacies, the only examples which remain with any detail and precision
in history, and certainly the only ones which the people at large had ever considered. But
reflecting on the striking difference in so many particulars between this country and those
where a courier may go from the seat of government to the frontier in a single day, it was
then certainly foreseen by some who assisted in Congress at the formation of it that it could
not be durable.

Negligence of its regulations, inattention to its recommendations, if not disobedience to its
authority, not only in individuals but in States, soon appeared with their melancholy consequences--universal
languor, jealousies and rivalries of States, decline of navigation and commerce, discouragement
of necessary manufactures, universal fall in the value of lands and their produce, contempt
of public and private faith, loss of consideration and credit with foreign nations, and at
length in discontents, animosities, combinations, partial conventions, and insurrection, threatening
some great national calamity.

In this dangerous crisis the people of America were not abandoned by their usual good sense,
presence of mind, resolution, or integrity. The public disquisitions, discussions, and deliberations
issued in the present happy Constitution of Government.

Employed in the service of my country abroad during the whole course of these transactions,
I first saw the Constitution of the United States in a foreign country. Irritated by no literary
altercation, animated by no public debate, heated by no party animosity, I read it with great
satisfaction, as the result of good heads prompted by good hearts, as an experiment better
adapted to the genius, character, situation, and relations of this nation and country than
any which had ever been proposed or suggested. In its general principles and great outlines
it was conformable to such a system of government as I had ever most esteemed, and in some
States, my own native State in particular, had contributed to establish. Claiming a right of
suffrage, in common with my fellow-citizens, in the adoption or rejection of a constitution
which was to rule me and my posterity, as well as them and theirs, I did not hesitate to express
my approbation of it on all occasions, in public and in private. It was not then, nor has been
since, any objection to it in my mind that the Executive and Senate were not more permanent.
Nor have I ever entertained a thought of promoting any alteration in it but such as the people
themselves, in the course of their experience, should see and feel to be necessary or expedient,
and by their representatives in Congress and the State legislatures, according to the Constitution
itself, adopt and ordain.

Returning to the bosom of my country after a painful separation from it for ten years, I had
the honor to be elected to a station under the new order of things, and I have repeatedly laid
myself under the most serious obligations to support the Constitution. The operation of it
has equaled the most sanguine expectations of its friends, and from an habitual attention to
it, satisfaction in its administration, and delight in its effects upon the peace, order, prosperity,
and happiness of the nation I have acquired an habitual attachment to it and veneration for it.

What other form of government, indeed, can so well deserve our esteem and love?

There may be little solidity in an ancient idea that congregations of men into cities and nations
are the most pleasing objects in the sight of superior intelligences, but this is very certain,
that to a benevolent human mind there can be no spectacle presented by any nation more pleasing,
more noble, majestic, or august, than an assembly like that which has so often been seen in
this and the other Chamber of Congress, of a Government in which the Executive authority, as
well as that of all the branches of the Legislature, are exercised by citizens selected at
regular periods by their neighbors to make and execute laws for the general good. Can anything
essential, anything more than mere ornament and decoration, be added to this by robes and diamonds?
Can authority be more amiable and respectable when it descends from accidents or institutions
established in remote antiquity than when it springs fresh from the hearts and judgments of
an honest and enlightened people? For it is the people only that are represented. It is their
power and majesty that is reflected, and only for their good, in every legitimate government,
under whatever form it may appear. The existence of such a government as ours for any length
of time is a full proof of a general dissemination of knowledge and virtue throughout the whole
body of the people. And what object or consideration more pleasing than this can be presented
to the human mind? If national pride is ever justifiable or excusable it is when it springs,
not from power or riches, grandeur or glory, but from conviction of national innocence, information,
and benevolence.

In the midst of these pleasing ideas we should be unfaithful to ourselves if we should ever
lose sight of the danger to our liberties if anything partial or extraneous should infect the
purity of our free, fair, virtuous, and independent elections. If an election is to be determined
by a majority of a single vote, and that can be procured by a party through artifice or corruption,
the Government may be the choice of a party for its own ends, not of the nation for the national
good. If that solitary suffrage can be obtained by foreign nations by flattery or menaces,
by fraud or violence, by terror, intrigue, or venality, the Government may not be the choice
of the American people, but of foreign nations. It may be foreign nations who govern us, and
not we, the people, who govern ourselves; and candid men will acknowledge that in such cases
choice would have little advantage to boast of over lot or chance. This example has been recommended
to the imitation of his successors by both Houses of Congress and by the voice of the legislatures
and the people throughout the nation.

On this subject it might become me better to be silent or to speak with diffidence; but as
something may be expected, the occasion, I hope, will be admitted as an apology if I venture
to say that if a preference, upon principle, of a free republican government, formed upon long
and serious reflection, after a diligent and impartial inquiry after truth; if an attachment
to the Constitution of the United States, and a conscientious determination to support it until
it shall be altered by the judgments and wishes of the people, expressed in the mode prescribed
in it; if a respectful attention to the constitutions of the individual States and a constant
caution and delicacy toward the State governments; if an equal and impartial regard to the
rights, interest, honor, and happiness of all the States in the Union, without preference or
regard to a northern or southern, an eastern or western, position, their various political
opinions on unessential points or their personal attachments; if a love of virtuous men of
all parties and denominations; if a love of science and letters and a wish to patronize every
rational effort to encourage schools, colleges, universities, academies, and every institution
for propagating knowledge, virtue, and religion among all classes of the people, not only for
their benign influence on the happiness of life in all its stages and classes, and of society
in all its forms, but as the only means of preserving our Constitution from its natural enemies,
the spirit of sophistry, the spirit of party, the spirit of intrigue, the profligacy of corruption,
and the pestilence of foreign influence, which is the angel of destruction to elective governments;
if a love of equal laws, of justice, and humanity in the interior administration; if an inclination
to improve agriculture, commerce, and manufacturers for necessity, convenience, and defense;
if a spirit of equity and humanity toward the aboriginal nations of America, and a disposition
to meliorate their condition by inclining them to be more friendly to us, and our citizens
to be more friendly to them; if an inflexible determination to maintain peace and inviolable
faith with all nations, and that system of neutrality and impartiality among the belligerent
powers of Europe which has been adopted by this Government and so solemnly sanctioned by both
Houses of Congress and applauded by the legislatures of the States and the public opinion,
until it shall be otherwise ordained by Congress; if a personal esteem for the French nation,
formed in a residence of seven years chiefly among them, and a sincere desire to preserve the
friendship which has been so much for the honor and interest of both nations; if, while the
conscious honor and integrity of the people of America and the internal sentiment of their
own power and energies must be preserved, an earnest endeavor to investigate every just cause
and remove every colorable pretense of complaint; if an intention to pursue by amicable negotiation
a reparation for the injuries that have been committed on the commerce of our fellow-citizens
by whatever nation, and if success can not be obtained, to lay the facts before the Legislature,
that they may consider what further measures the honor and interest of the Government and its
constituents demand; if a resolution to do justice as far as may depend upon me, at all times
and to all nations, and maintain peace, friendship, and benevolence with all the world; if
an unshaken confidence in the honor, spirit, and resources of the American people, on which
I have so often hazarded my all and never been deceived; if elevated ideas of the high destinies
of this country and of my own duties toward it, founded on a knowledge of the moral principles
and intellectual improvements of the people deeply engraven on my mind in early life, and not
obscured but exalted by experience and age; and, with humble reverence, I feel it to be my
duty to add, if a veneration for the religion of a people who profess and call themselves Christians,
and a fixed resolution to consider a decent respect for Christianity among the best recommendations
for the public service, can enable me in any degree to comply with your wishes, it shall be
my strenuous endeavor that this sagacious injunction of the two Houses shall not be without effect.

With this great example before me, with the sense and spirit, the faith and honor, the duty
and interest, of the same American people pledged to support the Constitution of the United
States, I entertain no doubt of its continuance in all its energy, and my mind is prepared
without hesitation to lay myself under the most solemn obligations to support it to the utmost
of my power.

And may that Being who is supreme over all, the Patron of Order, the Fountain of Justice, and
the Protector in all ages of the world of virtuous liberty, continue His blessing upon this
nation and its Government and give it all possible success and duration consistent with the
ends of His providence.

On taking this station on a former occasion I declared the principles on which I believed it
my duty to administer the affairs of our Commonwealth. My conscience tells me I have on every
occasion acted up to that declaration according to its obvious import and to the understanding
of every candid mind.

In the transaction of your foreign affairs we have endeavored to cultivate the friendship of
all nations, and especially of those with which we have the most important relations. We have
done them justice on all occasions, favored where favor was lawful, and cherished mutual interests
and intercourse on fair and equal terms. We are firmly convinced, and we act on that conviction,
that with nations as with individuals our interests soundly calculated will ever be found inseparable
from our moral duties, and history bears witness to the fact that a just nation is trusted
on its word when recourse is had to armaments and wars to bridle others.

At home, fellow-citizens, you best know whether we have done well or ill. The suppression of
unnecessary offices, of useless establishments and expenses, enabled us to discontinue our
internal taxes. These, covering our land with officers and opening our doors to their intrusions,
had already begun that process of domiciliary vexation which once entered is scarcely to be
restrained from reaching successively every article of property and produce. If among these
taxes some minor ones fell which had not been inconvenient, it was because their amount would
not have paid the officers who collected them, and because, if they had any merit, the State
authorities might adopt them instead of others less approved.

The remaining revenue on the consumption of foreign articles is paid chiefly by those who can
afford to add foreign luxuries to domestic comforts, being collected on our seaboard and frontiers
only, and incorporated with the transactions of our mercantile citizens, it may be the pleasure
and the pride of an American to ask, What farmer, what mechanic, what laborer ever sees a taxgatherer
of the United States? These contributions enable us to support the current expenses of the
Government, to fulfill contracts with foreign nations, to extinguish the native right of soil
within our limits, to extend those limits, and to apply such a surplus to our public debts
as places at a short day their final redemption, and that redemption once effected the revenue
thereby liberated may, by a just repartition of it among the States and a corresponding amendment
of the Constitution, be applied in time of peace to rivers, canals, roads, arts, manufactures,
education, and other great objects within each State. In time of war, if injustice by ourselves
or others must sometimes produce war, increased as the same revenue will be by increased population
and consumption, and aided by other resources reserved for that crisis, it may meet within
the year all the expenses of the year without encroaching on the rights of future generations
by burthening them with the debts of the past. War will then be but a suspension of useful
works, and a return to a state of peace, a return to the progress of improvement.

I have said, fellow-citizens, that the income reserved had enabled us to extend our limits,
but that extension may possibly pay for itself before we are called on, and in the meantime
may keep down the accruing interest; in all events, it will replace the advances we shall have
made. I know that the acquisition of Louisiana had been disapproved by some from a candid apprehension
that the enlargement of our territory would endanger its union. But who can limit the extent
to which the federative principle may operate effectively? The larger our association the less
will it be shaken by local passions; and in any view is it not better that the opposite bank
of the Mississippi should be settled by our own brethren and children than by strangers of
another family? With which should we be most likely to live in harmony and friendly intercourse?

In matters of religion I have considered that its free exercise is placed by the Constitution
independent of the powers of the General Government. I have therefore undertaken on no occasion
to prescribe the religious exercises suited to it, but have left them, as the Constitution
found them, under the direction and discipline of the church or state authorities acknowledged
by the several religious societies.

The aboriginal inhabitants of these countries I have regarded with the commiseration their
history inspires. Endowed with the faculties and the rights of men, breathing an ardent love
of liberty and independence, and occupying a country which left them no desire but to be undisturbed,
the stream of overflowing population from other regions directed itself on these shores; without
power to divert or habits to contend against it, they have been overwhelmed by the current
or driven before it; now reduced within limits too narrow for the hunter's state, humanity
enjoins us to teach them agriculture and the domestic arts; to encourage them to that industry
which alone can enable them to maintain their place in existence and to prepare them in time
for that state of society which to bodily comforts adds the improvement of the mind and morals.
We have therefore liberally furnished them with the implements of husbandry and household use;
we have placed among them instructors in the arts of first necessity, and they are covered
with the aegis of the law against aggressors from among ourselves.

But the endeavors to enlighten them on the fate which awaits their present course of life,
to induce them to exercise their reason, follow its dictates, and change their pursuits with
the change of circumstances have powerful obstacles to encounter; they are combated by the
habits of their bodies, prejudices of their minds, ignorance, pride, and the influence of interested
and crafty individuals among them who feel themselves something in the present order of things
and fear to become nothing in any other. These persons inculcate a sanctimonious reverence
for the customs of their ancestors; that whatsoever they did must be done through all time;
that reason is a false guide, and to advance under its counsel in their physical, moral, or
political condition is perilous innovation; that their duty is to remain as their Creator made
them, ignorance being safety and knowledge full of danger; in short, my friends, among them
also is seen the action and counteraction of good sense and of bigotry; they too have their
antiphilosophists who find an interest in keeping things in their present state, who dread
reformation, and exert all their faculties to maintain the ascendancy of habit over the duty
of improving our reason and obeying its mandates.

In giving these outlines I do not mean, fellow-citizens, to arrogate to myself the merit of
the measures. That is due, in the first place, to the reflecting character of our citizens
at large, who, by the weight of public opinion, influence and strengthen the public measures.
It is due to the sound discretion with which they select from among themselves those to whom
they confide the legislative duties. It is due to the zeal and wisdom of the characters thus
selected, who lay the foundations of public happiness in wholesome laws, the execution of which
alone remains for others, and it is due to the able and faithful auxiliaries, whose patriotism
has associated them with me in the executive functions.

During this course of administration, and in order to disturb it, the artillery of the press
has been leveled against us, charged with whatsoever its licentiousness could devise or dare.
These abuses of an institution so important to freedom and science are deeply to be regretted,
inasmuch as they tend to lessen its usefulness and to sap its safety. They might, indeed, have
been corrected by the wholesome punishments reserved to and provided by the laws of the several
States against falsehood and defamation, but public duties more urgent press on the time of
public servants, and the offenders have therefore been left to find their punishment in the
public indignation.

Nor was it uninteresting to the world that an experiment should be fairly and fully made, whether
freedom of discussion, unaided by power, is not sufficient for the propagation and protection
of truth--whether a government conducting itself in the true spirit of its constitution, with
zeal and purity, and doing no act which it would be unwilling the whole world should witness,
can be written down by falsehood and defamation. The experiment has been tried; you have witnessed
the scene; our fellow-citizens looked on, cool and collected; they saw the latent source from
which these outrages proceeded; they gathered around their public functionaries, and when the
Constitution called them to the decision by suffrage, they pronounced their verdict, honorable
to those who had served them and consolatory to the friend of man who believes that he may
be trusted with the control of his own affairs.

No inference is here intended that the laws provided by the States against false and defamatory
publications should not be enforced; he who has time renders a service to public morals and
public tranquillity in reforming these abuses by the salutary coercions of the law; but the
experiment is noted to prove that, since truth and reason have maintained their ground against
false opinions in league with false facts, the press, confined to truth, needs no other legal
restraint; the public judgment will correct false reasoning and opinions on a full hearing
of all parties; and no other definite line can be drawn between the inestimable liberty of
the press and its demoralizing licentiousness. If there be still improprieties which this rule
would not restrain, its supplement must be sought in the censorship of public opinion.

Contemplating the union of sentiment now manifested so generally as auguring harmony and happiness
to our future course, I offer to our country sincere congratulations. With those, too, not
yet rallied to the same point the disposition to do so is gaining strength; facts are piercing
through the veil drawn over them, and our doubting brethren will at length see that the mass
of their fellow-citizens with whom they can not yet resolve to act as to principles and measures,
think as they think and desire what they desire; that our wish as well as theirs is that the
public efforts may be directed honestly to the public good, that peace be cultivated, civil
and religious liberty unassailed, law and order preserved, equality of rights maintained, and
that state of property, equal or unequal, which results to every man from his own industry
or that of his father's. When satisfied of these views it is not in human nature that they
should not approve and support them. In the meantime let us cherish them with patient affection,
let us do them justice, and more than justice, in all competitions of interest; and we need
not doubt that truth, reason, and their own interests will at length prevail, will gather them
into the fold of their country, and will complete that entire union of opinion which gives
to a nation the blessing of harmony and the benefit of all its strength.

I shall now enter on the duties to which my fellow-citizens have again called me, and shall
proceed in the spirit of those principles which they have approved. I fear not that any motives
of interest may lead me astray; I am sensible of no passion which could seduce me knowingly
from the path of justice, but the weaknesses of human nature and the limits of my own understanding
will produce errors of judgment sometimes injurious to your interests. I shall need, therefore,
all the indulgence which I have heretofore experienced from my constituents; the want of it
will certainly not lessen with increasing years. I shall need, too, the favor of that Being
in whose hands we are, who led our fathers, as Israel of old, from their native land and planted
them in a country flowing with all the necessaries and comforts of life; who has covered our
infancy with His providence and our riper years with His wisdom and power, and to whose goodness
I ask you to join in supplications with me that He will so enlighten the minds of your servants,
guide their councils, and prosper their measures that whatsoever they do shall result in your
good, and shall secure to you the peace, friendship, and approbation of all nations.

*****

James Madison First Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1809

Unwilling to depart from examples of the most revered authority, I avail myself of the occasion
now presented to express the profound impression made on me by the call of my country to the
station to the duties of which I am about to pledge myself by the most solemn of sanctions.
So distinguished a mark of confidence, proceeding from the deliberate and tranquil suffrage
of a free and virtuous nation, would under any circumstances have commanded my gratitude and
devotion, as well as filled me with an awful sense of the trust to be assumed. Under the various
circumstances which give peculiar solemnity to the existing period, I feel that both the honor
and the responsibility allotted to me are inexpressibly enhanced.

The present situation of the world is indeed without a parallel and that of our own country
full of difficulties. The pressure of these, too, is the more severely felt because they have
fallen upon us at a moment when the national prosperity being at a height not before attained,
the contrast resulting from the change has been rendered the more striking. Under the benign
influence of our republican institutions, and the maintenance of peace with all nations whilst
so many of them were engaged in bloody and wasteful wars, the fruits of a just policy were
enjoyed in an unrivaled growth of our faculties and resources. Proofs of this were seen in
the improvements of agriculture, in the successful enterprises of commerce, in the progress
of manufacturers and useful arts, in the increase of the public revenue and the use made of
it in reducing the public debt, and in the valuable works and establishments everywhere multiplying
over the face of our land.

It is a precious reflection that the transition from this prosperous condition of our country
to the scene which has for some time been distressing us is not chargeable on any unwarrantable
views, nor, as I trust, on any involuntary errors in the public councils. Indulging no passions
which trespass on the rights or the repose of other nations, it has been the true glory of
the United States to cultivate peace by observing justice, and to entitle themselves to the
respect of the nations at war by fulfilling their neutral obligations with the most scrupulous
impartiality. If there be candor in the world, the truth of these assertions will not be questioned;
posterity at least will do justice to them.

This unexceptionable course could not avail against the injustice and violence of the belligerent
powers. In their rage against each other, or impelled by more direct motives, principles of
retaliation have been introduced equally contrary to universal reason and acknowledged law.
How long their arbitrary edicts will be continued in spite of the demonstrations that not even
a pretext for them has been given by the United States, and of the fair and liberal attempt
to induce a revocation of them, can not be anticipated. Assuring myself that under every vicissitude
the determined spirit and united councils of the nation will be safeguards to its honor and
its essential interests, I repair to the post assigned me with no other discouragement than
what springs from my own inadequacy to its high duties. If I do not sink under the weight of
this deep conviction it is because I find some support in a consciousness of the purposes and
a confidence in the principles which I bring with me into this arduous service.

It is my good fortune, moreover, to have the path in which I am to tread lighted by examples
of illustrious services successfully rendered in the most trying difficulties by those who
have marched before me. Of those of my immediate predecessor it might least become me here
to speak. I may, however, be pardoned for not suppressing the sympathy with which my heart
is full in the rich reward he enjoys in the benedictions of a beloved country, gratefully bestowed
or exalted talents zealously devoted through a long career to the advancement of its highest
interest and happiness.

But the source to which I look or the aids which alone can supply my deficiencies is in the
well-tried intelligence and virtue of my fellow-citizens, and in the counsels of those representing
them in the other departments associated in the care of the national interests. In these my
confidence will under every difficulty be best placed, next to that which we have all been
encouraged to feel in the guardianship and guidance of that Almighty Being whose power regulates
the destiny of nations, whose blessings have been so conspicuously dispensed to this rising
Republic, and to whom we are bound to address our devout gratitude for the past, as well as
our fervent supplications and best hopes for the future.

*****

James Madison Second Inaugural Address Thursday, March 4, 1813

About to add the solemnity of an oath to the obligations imposed by a second call to the station
in which my country heretofore placed me, I find in the presence of this respectable assembly
an opportunity of publicly repeating my profound sense of so distinguished a confidence and
of the responsibility united with it. The impressions on me are strengthened by such an evidence
that my faithful endeavors to discharge my arduous duties have been favorably estimated, and
by a consideration of the momentous period at which the trust has been renewed. From the weight
and magnitude now belonging to it I should be compelled to shrink if I had less reliance on
the support of an enlightened and generous people, and felt less deeply a conviction that the
war with a powerful nation, which forms so prominent a feature in our situation, is stamped
with that justice which invites the smiles of Heaven on the means of conducting it to a successful
termination.

May we not cherish this sentiment without presumption when we reflect on the characters by
which this war is distinguished?

It was not declared on the part of the United States until it had been long made on them, in
reality though not in name; until arguments and postulations had been exhausted; until a positive
declaration had been received that the wrongs provoking it would not be discontinued; nor until
this last appeal could no longer be delayed without breaking down the spirit of the nation,
destroying all confidence in itself and in its political institutions, and either perpetuating
a state of disgraceful suffering or regaining by more costly sacrifices and more severe struggles
our lost rank and respect among independent powers.

On the issue of the war are staked our national sovereignty on the high seas and the security
of an important class of citizens whose occupations give the proper value to those of every
other class. Not to contend for such a stake is to surrender our equality with other powers
on the element common to all and to violate the sacred title which every member of the society
has to its protection. I need not call into view the unlawfulness of the practice by which
our mariners are forced at the will of every cruising officer from their own vessels into foreign
ones, nor paint the outrages inseparable from it. The proofs are in the records of each successive
Administration of our Government, and the cruel sufferings of that portion of the American
people have found their way to every bosom not dead to the sympathies of human nature.

As the war was just in its origin and necessary and noble in its objects, we can reflect with
a proud satisfaction that in carrying it on no principle of justice or honor, no usage of civilized
nations, no precept of courtesy or humanity, have been infringed. The war has been waged on
our part with scrupulous regard to all these obligations, and in a spirit of liberality which
was never surpassed.

How little has been the effect of this example on the conduct of the enemy!

They have retained as prisoners of war citizens of the United States not liable to be so considered
under the usages of war.

They have refused to consider as prisoners of war, and threatened to punish as traitors and
deserters, persons emigrating without restraint to the United States, incorporated by naturalization
into our political family, and fighting under the authority of their adopted country in open
and honorable war for the maintenance of its rights and safety. Such is the avowed purpose
of a Government which is in the practice of naturalizing by thousands citizens of other countries,
and not only of permitting but compelling them to fight its battles against their native country.

They have not, it is true, taken into their own hands the hatchet and the knife, devoted to
indiscriminate massacre, but they have let loose the savages armed with these cruel instruments;
have allured them into their service, and carried them to battle by their sides, eager to glut
their savage thirst with the blood of the vanquished and to finish the work of torture and
death on maimed and defenseless captives. And, what was never before seen, British commanders
have extorted victory over the unconquerable valor of our troops by presenting to the sympathy
of their chief captives awaiting massacre from their savage associates. And now we find them,
in further contempt of the modes of honorable warfare, supplying the place of a conquering
force by attempts to disorganize our political society, to dismember our confederated Republic.
Happily, like others, these will recoil on the authors; but they mark the degenerate counsels
from which they emanate, and if they did not belong to a sense of unexampled inconsistencies
might excite the greater wonder as proceeding from a Government which founded the very war
in which it has been so long engaged on a charge against the disorganizing and insurrectional
policy of its adversary.

To render the justice of the war on our part the more conspicuous, the reluctance to commence
it was followed by the earliest and strongest manifestations of a disposition to arrest its
progress. The sword was scarcely out of the scabbard before the enemy was apprised of the reasonable
terms on which it would be resheathed. Still more precise advances were repeated, and have
been received in a spirit forbidding every reliance not placed on the military resources of
the nation.

These resources are amply sufficient to bring the war to an honorable issue. Our nation is
in number more than half that of the British Isles. It is composed of a brave, a free, a virtuous,
and an intelligent people. Our country abounds in the necessaries, the arts, and the comforts
of life. A general prosperity is visible in the public countenance. The means employed by the
British cabinet to undermine it have recoiled on themselves; have given to our national faculties
a more rapid development, and, draining or diverting the precious metals from British circulation
and British vaults, have poured them into those of the United States. It is a propitious consideration
that an unavoidable war should have found this seasonable facility for the contributions required
to support it. When the public voice called for war, all knew, and still know, that without
them it could not be carried on through the period which it might last, and the patriotism,
the good sense, and the manly spirit of our fellow-citizens are pledges for the cheerfulness
with which they will bear each his share of the common burden. To render the war short and
its success sure, animated and systematic exertions alone are necessary, and the success of
our arms now may long preserve our country from the necessity of another resort to them. Already
have the gallant exploits of our naval heroes proved to the world our inherent capacity to
maintain our rights on one element. If the reputation of our arms has been thrown under clouds
on the other, presaging flashes of heroic enterprise assure us that nothing is wanting to correspondent
triumphs there also but the discipline and habits which are in daily progress.

*****

Andrew Jackson First Inaugural Address Wednesday, March 4, 1829

Fellow-Citizens:

About to undertake the arduous duties that I have been appointed to perform by the choice of
a free people, I avail myself of this customary and solemn occasion to express the gratitude
which their confidence inspires and to acknowledge the accountability which my situation enjoins.
While the magnitude of their interests convinces me that no thanks can be adequate to the honor
they have conferred, it admonishes me that the best return I can make is the zealous dedication
of my humble abilities to their service and their good.

As the instrument of the Federal Constitution it will devolve on me for a stated period to
execute the laws of the United States, to superintend their foreign and their confederate relations,
to manage their revenue, to command their forces, and, by communications to the Legislature,
to watch over and to promote their interests generally. And the principles of action by which
I shall endeavor to accomplish this circle of duties it is now proper for me briefly to explain.

In administering the laws of Congress I shall keep steadily in view the limitations as well
as the extent of the Executive power, trusting thereby to discharge the functions of my office
without transcending its authority. With foreign nations it will be my study to preserve peace
and to cultivate friendship on fair and honorable terms, and in the adjustment of any differences
that may exist or arise to exhibit the forbearance becoming a powerful nation rather than the
sensibility belonging to a gallant people.

In such measures as I may be called on to pursue in regard to the rights of the separate States
I hope to be animated by a proper respect for those sovereign members of our Union, taking
care not to confound the powers they have reserved to themselves with those they have granted
to the Confederacy.

The management of the public revenue--that searching operation in all governments--is among
the most delicate and important trusts in ours, and it will, of course, demand no inconsiderable
share of my official solicitude. Under every aspect in which it can be considered it would
appear that advantage must result from the observance of a strict and faithful economy. This
I shall aim at the more anxiously both because it will facilitate the extinguishment of the
national debt, the unnecessary duration of which is incompatible with real independence, and
because it will counteract that tendency to public and private profligacy which a profuse expenditure
of money by the Government is but too apt to engender. Powerful auxiliaries to the attainment
of this desirable end are to be found in the regulations provided by the wisdom of Congress
for the specific appropriation of public money and the prompt accountability of public officers.

With regard to a proper selection of the subjects of impost with a view to revenue, it would
seem to me that the spirit of equity, caution, and compromise in which the Constitution was
formed requires that the great interests of agriculture, commerce, and manufactures should
be equally favored, and that perhaps the only exception to this rule should consist in the
peculiar encouragement of any products of either of them that may be found essential to our
national independence.

Internal improvement and the diffusion of knowledge, so far as they can be promoted by the
constitutional acts of the Federal Government, are of high importance.

Considering standing armies as dangerous to free governments in time of peace, I shall not
seek to enlarge our present establishment, nor disregard that salutary lesson of political
experience which teaches that the military should be held subordinate to the civil power. The
gradual increase of our Navy, whose flag has displayed in distant climes our skill in navigation
and our fame in arms; the preservation of our forts, arsenals, and dockyards, and the introduction
of progressive improvements in the discipline and science of both branches of our military
service are so plainly prescribed by prudence that I should be excused for omitting their mention
sooner than for enlarging on their importance. But the bulwark of our defense is the national
militia, which in the present state of our intelligence and population must render us invincible.
As long as our Government is administered for the good of the people, and is regulated by their
will; as long as it secures to us the rights of person and of property, liberty of conscience
and of the press, it will be worth defending; and so long as it is worth defending a patriotic
militia will cover it with an impenetrable aegis. Partial injuries and occasional mortifications
we may be subjected to, but a million of armed freemen, possessed of the means of war, can
never be conquered by a foreign foe. To any just system, therefore, calculated to strengthen
this natural safeguard of the country I shall cheerfully lend all the aid in my power.

It will be my sincere and constant desire to observe toward the Indian tribes within our limits
a just and liberal policy, and to give that humane and considerate attention to their rights
and their wants which is consistent with the habits of our Government and the feelings of our
people.

The recent demonstration of public sentiment inscribes on the list of Executive duties, in
characters too legible to be overlooked, the task of reform, which will require particularly
the correction of those abuses that have brought the patronage of the Federal Government into
conflict with the freedom of elections, and the counteraction of those causes which have disturbed
the rightful course of appointment and have placed or continued power in unfaithful or incompetent
hands.

In the performance of a task thus generally delineated I shall endeavor to select men whose
diligence and talents will insure in their respective stations able and faithful cooperation,
depending for the advancement of the public service more on the integrity and zeal of the public
officers than on their numbers.

A diffidence, perhaps too just, in my own qualifications will teach me to look with reverence
to the examples of public virtue left by my illustrious predecessors, and with veneration to
the lights that flow from the mind that founded and the mind that reformed our system. The
same diffidence induces me to hope for instruction and aid from the coordinate branches of
the Government, and for the indulgence and support of my fellow-citizens generally. And a firm
reliance on the goodness of that Power whose providence mercifully protected our national infancy,
and has since upheld our liberties in various vicissitudes, encourages me to offer up my ardent
supplications that He will continue to make our beloved country the object of His divine care
and gracious benediction.

*****

James Knox Polk Inaugural Address Tuesday, March 4, 1845

Fellow-Citizens:

Without solicitation on my part, I have been chosen by the free and voluntary suffrages of
my countrymen to the most honorable and most responsible office on earth. I am deeply impressed
with gratitude for the confidence reposed in me. Honored with this distinguished consideration
at an earlier period of life than any of my predecessors, I can not disguise the diffidence
with which I am about to enter on the discharge of my official duties.

If the more aged and experienced men who have filled the office of President of the United
States even in the infancy of the Republic distrusted their ability to discharge the duties
of that exalted station, what ought not to be the apprehensions of one so much younger and
less endowed now that our domain extends from ocean to ocean, that our people have so greatly
increased in numbers, and at a time when so great diversity of opinion prevails in regard to
the principles and policy which should characterize the administration of our Government? Well
may the boldest fear and the wisest tremble when incurring responsibilities on which may depend
our country's peace and prosperity, and in some degree the hopes and happiness of the whole
human family.

In assuming responsibilities so vast I fervently invoke the aid of that Almighty Ruler of the
Universe in whose hands are the destinies of nations and of men to guard this Heaven-favored
land against the mischiefs which without His guidance might arise from an unwise public policy.
With a firm reliance upon the wisdom of Omnipotence to sustain and direct me in the path of
duty which I am appointed to pursue, I stand in the presence of this assembled multitude of
my countrymen to take upon myself the solemn obligation "to the best of my ability to preserve,
protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States."

A concise enumeration of the principles which will guide me in the administrative policy of
the Government is not only in accordance with the examples set me by all my predecessors, but
is eminently befitting the occasion.

The Constitution itself, plainly written as it is, the safeguard of our federative compact,
the offspring of concession and compromise, binding together in the bonds of peace and union
this great and increasing family of free and independent States, will be the chart by which
I shall be directed.

It will be my first care to administer the Government in the true spirit of that instrument,
and to assume no powers not expressly granted or clearly implied in its terms. The Government
of the United States is one of delegated and limited powers, and it is by a strict adherence
to the clearly granted powers and by abstaining from the exercise of doubtful or unauthorized
implied powers that we have the only sure guaranty against the recurrence of those unfortunate
collisions between the Federal and State authorities which have occasionally so much disturbed
the harmony of our system and even threatened the perpetuity of our glorious Union.

"To the States, respectively, or to the people" have been reserved "the powers not delegated
to the United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the States." Each State is
a complete sovereignty within the sphere of its reserved powers. The Government of the Union,
acting within the sphere of its delegated authority, is also a complete sovereignty. While
the General Government should abstain from the exercise of authority not clearly delegated
to it, the States should be equally careful that in the maintenance of their rights they do
not overstep the limits of powers reserved to them.

To the Government of the United States has been intrusted the exclusive management of our foreign
affairs. Beyond that it wields a few general enumerated powers. It does not force reform on
the States. It leaves individuals, over whom it casts its protecting influence, entirely free
to improve their own condition by the legitimate exercise of all their mental and physical
powers. It is a common protector of each and all the States; of every man who lives upon our
soil, whether of native or foreign birth; of every religious sect, in their worship of the
Almighty according to the dictates of their own conscience; of every shade of opinion, and
the most free inquiry; of every art, trade, and occupation consistent with the laws of the
States. And we rejoice in the general happiness, prosperity, and advancement of our country,
which have been the offspring of freedom, and not of power.

This most admirable and wisest system of well-regulated self-government among men ever devised
by human minds has been tested by its successful operation for more than half a century, and
if preserved from the usurpations of the Federal Government on the one hand and the exercise
by the States of powers not reserved to them on the other, will, I fervently hope and believe,
endure for ages to come and dispense the blessings of civil and religious liberty to distant
generations. To effect objects so dear to every patriot I shall devote myself with anxious
solicitude. It will be my desire to guard against that most fruitful source of danger to the
harmonious action of our system which consists in substituting the mere discretion and caprice
of the Executive or of majorities in the legislative department of the Government for powers
which have been withheld from the Federal Government by the Constitution. By the theory of
our Government majorities rule, but this right is not an arbitrary or unlimited one. It is
a right to be exercised in subordination to the Constitution and in conformity to it. One great
object of the Constitution was to restrain majorities from oppressing minorities or encroaching
upon their just rights. Minorities have a right to appeal to the Constitution as a shield against
such oppression.

That the blessings of liberty which our Constitution secures may be enjoyed alike by minorities
and majorities, the Executive has been wisely invested with a qualified veto upon the acts
of the Legislature. It is a negative power, and is conservative in its character. It arrests
for the time hasty, inconsiderate, or unconstitutional legislation, invites reconsideration,
and transfers questions at issue between the legislative and executive departments to the tribunal
of the people. Like all other powers, it is subject to be abused. When judiciously and properly
exercised, the Constitution itself may be saved from infraction and the rights of all preserved
and protected.

The inestimable value of our Federal Union is felt and acknowledged by all. By this system
of united and confederated States our people are permitted collectively and individually to
seek their own happiness in their own way, and the consequences have been most auspicious.
Since the Union was formed the number of the States has increased from thirteen to twenty-eight;
two of these have taken their position as members of the Confederacy within the last week.
Our population has increased from three to twenty millions. New communities and States are
seeking protection under its aegis, and multitudes from the Old World are flocking to our shores
to participate in its blessings. Beneath its benign sway peace and prosperity prevail. Freed
from the burdens and miseries of war, our trade and intercourse have extended throughout the
world. Mind, no longer tasked in devising means to accomplish or resist schemes of ambition,
usurpation, or conquest, is devoting itself to man's true interests in developing his faculties
and powers and the capacity of nature to minister to his enjoyments. Genius is free to announce
its inventions and discoveries, and the hand is free to accomplish whatever the head conceives
not incompatible with the rights of a fellow-being. All distinctions of birth or of rank have
been abolished. All citizens, whether native or adopted, are placed upon terms of precise equality.
All are entitled to equal rights and equal protection. No union exists between church and state,
and perfect freedom of opinion is guaranteed to all sects and creeds.

These are some of the blessings secured to our happy land by our Federal Union. To perpetuate
them it is our sacred duty to preserve it. Who shall assign limits to the achievements of free
minds and free hands under the protection of this glorious Union? No treason to mankind since
the organization of society would be equal in atrocity to that of him who would lift his hand
to destroy it. He would overthrow the noblest structure of human wisdom, which protects himself
and his fellow-man. He would stop the progress of free government and involve his country either
in anarchy or despotism. He would extinguish the fire of liberty, which warms and animates
the hearts of happy millions and invites all the nations of the earth to imitate our example.
If he say that error and wrong are committed in the administration of the Government, let him
remember that nothing human can be perfect, and that under no other system of government revealed
by Heaven or devised by man has reason been allowed so free and broad a scope to combat error.
Has the sword of despots proved to be a safer or surer instrument of reform in government than
enlightened reason? Does he expect to find among the ruins of this Union a happier abode for
our swarming millions than they now have under it? Every lover of his country must shudder
at the thought of the possibility of its dissolution, and will be ready to adopt the patriotic
sentiment, "Our Federal Union--it must be preserved." To preserve it the compromises which
alone enabled our fathers to form a common constitution for the government and protection of
so many States and distinct communities, of such diversified habits, interests, and domestic
institutions, must be sacredly and religiously observed. Any attempt to disturb or destroy
these compromises, being terms of the compact of union, can lead to none other than the most
ruinous and disastrous consequences.

It is a source of deep regret that in some sections of our country misguided persons have occasionally
indulged in schemes and agitations whose object is the destruction of domestic institutions
existing in other sections--institutions which existed at the adoption of the Constitution
and were recognized and protected by it. All must see that if it were possible for them to
be successful in attaining their object the dissolution of the Union and the consequent destruction
of our happy form of government must speedily follow.

I am happy to believe that at every period of our existence as a nation there has existed,
and continues to exist, among the great mass of our people a devotion to the Union of the States
which will shield and protect it against the moral treason of any who would seriously contemplate
its destruction. To secure a continuance of that devotion the compromises of the Constitution
must not only be preserved, but sectional jealousies and heartburnings must be discountenanced,
and all should remember that they are members of the same political family, having a common
destiny. To increase the attachment of our people to the Union, our laws should be just. Any
policy which shall tend to favor monopolies or the peculiar interests of sections or classes
must operate to the prejudice of the interest of their fellow-citizens, and should be avoided.
If the compromises of the Constitution be preserved, if sectional jealousies and heartburnings
be discountenanced, if our laws be just and the Government be practically administered strictly
within the limits of power prescribed to it, we may discard all apprehensions for the safety
of the Union.

With these views of the nature, character, and objects of the Government and the value of the
Union, I shall steadily oppose the creation of those institutions and systems which in their
nature tend to pervert it from its legitimate purposes and make it the instrument of sections,
classes, and individuals. We need no national banks or other extraneous institutions planted
around the Government to control or strengthen it in opposition to the will of its authors.
Experience has taught us how unnecessary they are as auxiliaries of the public authorities--how
impotent for good and how powerful for mischief.

Ours was intended to be a plain and frugal government, and I shall regard it to be my duty
to recommend to Congress and, as far as the Executive is concerned, to enforce by all the means
within my power the strictest economy in the expenditure of the public money which may be compatible
with the public interests.

A national debt has become almost an institution of European monarchies. It is viewed in some
of them as an essential prop to existing governments. Melancholy is the condition of that people
whose government can be sustained only by a system which periodically transfers large amounts
from the labor of the many to the coffers of the few. Such a system is incompatible with the
ends for which our republican Government was instituted. Under a wise policy the debts contracted
in our Revolution and during the War of 1812 have been happily extinguished. By a judicious
application of the revenues not required for other necessary purposes, it is not doubted that
the debt which has grown out of the circumstances of the last few years may be speedily paid off.

I congratulate my fellow-citizens on the entire restoration of the credit of the General Government
of the Union and that of many of the States. Happy would it be for the indebted States if they
were freed from their liabilities, many of which were incautiously contracted. Although the
Government of the Union is neither in a legal nor a moral sense bound for the debts of the
States, and it would be a violation of our compact of union to assume them, yet we can not
but feel a deep interest in seeing all the States meet their public liabilities and pay off
their just debts at the earliest practicable period. That they will do so as soon as it can
be done without imposing too heavy burdens on their citizens there is no reason to doubt. The
sound moral and honorable feeling of the people of the indebted States can not be questioned,
and we are happy to perceive a settled disposition on their part, as their ability returns
after a season of unexampled pecuniary embarrassment, to pay off all just demands and to acquiesce
in any reasonable measures to accomplish that object.

One of the difficulties which we have had to encounter in the practical administration of the
Government consists in the adjustment of our revenue laws and the levy of the taxes necessary
for the support of Government. In the general proposition that no more money shall be collected
than the necessities of an economical administration shall require all parties seem to acquiesce.
Nor does there seem to be any material difference of opinion as to the absence of right in
the Government to tax one section of country, or one class of citizens, or one occupation,
for the mere profit of another. I have also declared my opinion to be "in favor of a tariff
for revenue," and that "in adjusting the details of such a tariff I have sanctioned such moderate
discriminating duties as would produce the amount of revenue needed and at the same time afford
reasonable incidental protection to our home industry," and that I was "opposed to a tariff
for protection merely, and not for revenue."

The power "to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises" was an indispensable one
to be conferred on the Federal Government, which without it would possess no means of providing
for its own support. In executing this power by levying a tariff of duties for the support
of Government, the raising of revenue should be the object and protection the incident. To
reverse this principle and make protection the object and revenue the incident would be to
inflict manifest injustice upon all other than the protected interests. In levying duties for
revenue it is doubtless proper to make such discriminations within the revenue principle as
will afford incidental protection to our home interests. Within the revenue limit there is
a discretion to discriminate; beyond that limit the rightful exercise of the power is not conceded.
The incidental protection afforded to our home interests by discriminations within the revenue
range it is believed will be ample. In making discriminations all our home interests should
as far as practicable be equally protected. The largest portion of our people are agriculturists.
Others are employed in manufactures, commerce, navigation, and the mechanic arts. They are
all engaged in their respective pursuits and their joint labors constitute the national or
home industry. To tax one branch of this home industry for the benefit of another would be
unjust. No one of these interests can rightfully claim an advantage over the others, or to
be enriched by impoverishing the others. All are equally entitled to the fostering care and
protection of the Government. In exercising a sound discretion in levying discriminating duties
within the limit prescribed, care should be taken that it be done in a manner not to benefit
the wealthy few at the expense of the toiling millions by taxing lowest the luxuries of life,
or articles of superior quality and high price, which can only be consumed by the wealthy,
and highest the necessaries of life, or articles of coarse quality and low price, which the
poor and great mass of our people must consume. The burdens of government should as far as
practicable be distributed justly and equally among all classes of our population. These general
views, long entertained on this subject, I have deemed it proper to reiterate. It is a subject
upon which conflicting interests of sections and occupations are supposed to exist, and a spirit
of mutual concession and compromise in adjusting its details should be cherished by every part
of our widespread country as the only means of preserving harmony and a cheerful acquiescence
of all in the operation of our revenue laws. Our patriotic citizens in every part of the Union
will readily submit to the payment of such taxes as shall be needed for the support of their
Government, whether in peace or in war, if they are so levied as to distribute the burdens
as equally as possible among them.

The Republic of Texas has made known her desire to come into our Union, to form a part of our
Confederacy and enjoy with us the blessings of liberty secured and guaranteed by our Constitution.
Texas was once a part of our country--was unwisely ceded away to a foreign power--is now independent,
and possesses an undoubted right to dispose of a part or the whole of her territory and to
merge her sovereignty as a separate and independent state in ours. I congratulate my country
that by an act of the late Congress of the United States the assent of this Government has
been given to the reunion, and it only remains for the two countries to agree upon the terms
to consummate an object so important to both.

I regard the question of annexation as belonging exclusively to the United States and Texas.
They are independent powers competent to contract, and foreign nations have no right to interfere
with them or to take exceptions to their reunion. Foreign powers do not seem to appreciate
the true character of our Government. Our Union is a confederation of independent States, whose
policy is peace with each other and all the world. To enlarge its limits is to extend the dominions
of peace over additional territories and increasing millions. The world has nothing to fear
from military ambition in our Government. While the Chief Magistrate and the popular branch
of Congress are elected for short terms by the suffrages of those millions who must in their
own persons bear all the burdens and miseries of war, our Government can not be otherwise than
pacific. Foreign powers should therefore look on the annexation of Texas to the United States
not as the conquest of a nation seeking to extend her dominions by arms and violence, but as
the peaceful acquisition of a territory once her own, by adding another member to our confederation,
with the consent of that member, thereby diminishing the chances of war and opening to them
new and ever-increasing markets for their products.

To Texas the reunion is important, because the strong protecting arm of our Government would
be extended over her, and the vast resources of her fertile soil and genial climate would be
speedily developed, while the safety of New Orleans and of our whole southwestern frontier
against hostile aggression, as well as the interests of the whole Union, would be promoted by it.

In the earlier stages of our national existence the opinion prevailed with some that our system
of confederated States could not operate successfully over an extended territory, and serious
objections have at different times been made to the enlargement of our boundaries. These objections
were earnestly urged when we acquired Louisiana. Experience has shown that they were not well
founded. The title of numerous Indian tribes to vast tracts of country has been extinguished;
new States have been admitted into the Union; new Territories have been created and our jurisdiction
and laws extended over them. As our population has expanded, the Union has been cemented and
strengthened. As our boundaries have been enlarged and our agricultural population has been
spread over a large surface, our federative system has acquired additional strength and security.
It may well be doubted whether it would not be in greater danger of overthrow if our present
population were confined to the comparatively narrow limits of the original thirteen States
than it is now that they are sparsely settled over a more expanded territory. It is confidently
believed that our system may be safely extended to the utmost bounds of our territorial limits,
and that as it shall be extended the bonds of our Union, so far from being weakened, will become
stronger.

None can fail to see the danger to our safety and future peace if Texas remains an independent
state or becomes an ally or dependency of some foreign nation more powerful than herself. Is
there one among our citizens who would not prefer perpetual peace with Texas to occasional
wars, which so often occur between bordering independent nations? Is there one who would not
prefer free intercourse with her to high duties on all our products and manufactures which
enter her ports or cross her frontiers? Is there one who would not prefer an unrestricted communication
with her citizens to the frontier obstructions which must occur if she remains out of the Union?
Whatever is good or evil in the local institutions of Texas will remain her own whether annexed
to the United States or not. None of the present States will be responsible for them any more
than they are for the local institutions of each other. They have confederated together for
certain specified objects. Upon the same principle that they would refuse to form a perpetual
union with Texas because of her local institutions our forefathers would have been prevented
from forming our present Union. Perceiving no valid objection to the measure and many reasons
for its adoption vitally affecting the peace, the safety, and the prosperity of both countries,
I shall on the broad principle which formed the basis and produced the adoption of our Constitution,
and not in any narrow spirit of sectional policy, endeavor by all constitutional, honorable,
and appropriate means to consummate the expressed will of the people and Government of the
United States by the reannexation of Texas to our Union at the earliest practicable period.

Nor will it become in a less degree my duty to assert and maintain by all constitutional means
the right of the United States to that portion of our territory which lies beyond the Rocky
Mountains. Our title to the country of the Oregon is "clear and unquestionable," and already
are our people preparing to perfect that title by occupying it with their wives and children.
But eighty years ago our population was confined on the west by the ridge of the Alleghanies.
Within that period--within the lifetime, I might say, of some of my hearers--our people, increasing
to many millions, have filled the eastern valley of the Mississippi, adventurously ascended
the Missouri to its headsprings, and are already engaged in establishing the blessings of self-government
in valleys of which the rivers flow to the Pacific. The world beholds the peaceful triumphs
of the industry of our emigrants. To us belongs the duty of protecting them adequately wherever
they may be upon our soil. The jurisdiction of our laws and the benefits of our republican
institutions should be extended over them in the distant regions which they have selected for
their homes. The increasing facilities of intercourse will easily bring the States, of which
the formation in that part of our territory can not be long delayed, within the sphere of our
federative Union. In the meantime every obligation imposed by treaty or conventional stipulations
should be sacredly respected.

In the management of our foreign relations it will be my aim to observe a careful respect for
the rights of other nations, while our own will be the subject of constant watchfulness. Equal
and exact justice should characterize all our intercourse with foreign countries. All alliances
having a tendency to jeopard the welfare and honor of our country or sacrifice any one of the
national interests will be studiously avoided, and yet no opportunity will be lost to cultivate
a favorable understanding with foreign governments by which our navigation and commerce may
be extended and the ample products of our fertile soil, as well as the manufactures of our
skillful artisans, find a ready market and remunerating prices in foreign countries.

In taking "care that the laws be faithfully executed," a strict performance of duty will be
exacted from all public officers. From those officers, especially, who are charged with the
collection and disbursement of the public revenue will prompt and rigid accountability be required.
Any culpable failure or delay on their part to account for the moneys intrusted to them at
the times and in the manner required by law will in every instance terminate the official connection
of such defaulting officer with the Government.

Although in our country the Chief Magistrate must almost of necessity be chosen by a party
and stand pledged to its principles and measures, yet in his official action he should not
be the President of a part only, but of the whole people of the United States. While he executes
the laws with an impartial hand, shrinks from no proper responsibility, and faithfully carries
out in the executive department of the Government the principles and policy of those who have
chosen him, he should not be unmindful that our fellow-citizens who have differed with him
in opinion are entitled to the full and free exercise of their opinions and judgments, and
that the rights of all are entitled to respect and regard.

Confidently relying upon the aid and assistance of the coordinate departments of the Government
in conducting our public affairs, I enter upon the discharge of the high duties which have
been assigned me by the people, again humbly supplicating that Divine Being who has watched
over and protected our beloved country from its infancy to the present hour to continue His
gracious benedictions upon us, that we may continue to be a prosperous and happy people.

*****

Theodore Roosevelt Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1905

MY fellow-citizens, no people on earth have more cause to be thankful than ours, and this is
said reverently, in no spirit of boastfulness in our own strength, but with gratitude to the
Giver of Good who has blessed us with the conditions which have enabled us to achieve so large
a measure of well-being and of happiness. To us as a people it has been granted to lay the
foundations of our national life in a new continent. We are the heirs of the ages, and yet
we have had to pay few of the penalties which in old countries are exacted by the dead hand
of a bygone civilization. We have not been obliged to fight for our existence against any alien
race; and yet our life has called for the vigor and effort without which the manlier and hardier
virtues wither away. Under such conditions it would be our own fault if we failed; and the
success which we have had in the past, the success which we confidently believe the future
will bring, should cause in us no feeling of vainglory, but rather a deep and abiding realization
of all which life has offered us; a full acknowledgment of the responsibility which is ours;
and a fixed determination to show that under a free government a mighty people can thrive best,
alike as regards the things of the body and the things of the soul.

Much has been given us, and much will rightfully be expected from us. We have duties to others
and duties to ourselves; and we can shirk neither. We have become a great nation, forced by
the fact of its greatness into relations with the other nations of the earth, and we must behave
as beseems a people with such responsibilities. Toward all other nations, large and small,
our attitude must be one of cordial and sincere friendship. We must show not only in our words,
but in our deeds, that we are earnestly desirous of securing their good will by acting toward
them in a spirit of just and generous recognition of all their rights. But justice and generosity
in a nation, as in an individual, count most when shown not by the weak but by the strong.
While ever careful to refrain from wrongdoing others, we must be no less insistent that we
are not wronged ourselves. We wish peace, but we wish the peace of justice, the peace of righteousness.
We wish it because we think it is right and not because we are afraid. No weak nation that
acts manfully and justly should ever have cause to fear us, and no strong power should ever
be able to single us out as a subject for insolent aggression.

Our relations with the other powers of the world are important; but still more important are
our relations among ourselves. Such growth in wealth, in population, and in power as this nation
has seen during the century and a quarter of its national life is inevitably accompanied by
a like growth in the problems which are ever before every nation that rises to greatness. Power
invariably means both responsibility and danger. Our forefathers faced certain perils which
we have outgrown. We now face other perils, the very existence of which it was impossible that
they should foresee.

*****

William Howard Taft Inaugural Address Thursday, March 4, 1909

My Fellow-Citizens:

ANYONE who has taken the oath I have just taken must feel a heavy weight of responsibility.
If not, he has no conception of the powers and duties of the office upon which he is about
to enter, or he is lacking in a proper sense of the obligation which the oath imposes.

The office of an inaugural address is to give a summary outline of the main policies of the
new administration, so far as they can be anticipated. I have had the honor to be one of the
advisers of my distinguished predecessor, and, as such, to hold up his hands in the reforms
he has initiated. I should be untrue to myself, to my promises, and to the declarations of
the party platform upon which I was elected to office, if I did not make the maintenance and
enforcement of those reforms a most important feature of my administration. They were directed
to the suppression of the lawlessness and abuses of power of the great combinations of capital
invested in railroads and in industrial enterprises carrying on interstate commerce. The steps
which my predecessor took and the legislation passed on his recommendation have accomplished
much, have caused a general halt in the vicious policies which created popular alarm, and have
brought about in the business affected a much higher regard for existing law.

To render the reforms lasting, however, and to secure at the same time freedom from alarm on
the part of those pursuing proper and progressive business methods, further legislative and
executive action are needed. Relief of the railroads from certain restrictions of the antitrust
law have been urged by my predecessor and will be urged by me. On the other hand, the administration
is pledged to legislation looking to a proper federal supervision and restriction to prevent
excessive issues of bonds and stock by companies owning and operating interstate commerce railroads.

Then, too, a reorganization of the Department of Justice, of the Bureau of Corporations in
the Department of Commerce and Labor, and of the Interstate Commerce Commission, looking to
effective cooperation of these agencies, is needed to secure a more rapid and certain enforcement
of the laws affecting interstate railroads and industrial combinations.

I hope to be able to submit at the first regular session of the incoming Congress, in December
next, definite suggestions in respect to the needed amendments to the antitrust and the interstate
commerce law and the changes required in the executive departments concerned in their enforcement.

It is believed that with the changes to be recommended American business can be assured of
that measure of stability and certainty in respect to those things that may be done and those
that are prohibited which is essential to the life and growth of all business. Such a plan
must include the right of the people to avail themselves of those methods of combining capital
and effort deemed necessary to reach the highest degree of economic efficiency, at the same
time differentiating between combinations based upon legitimate economic reasons and those
formed with the intent of creating monopolies and artificially controlling prices.

The work of formulating into practical shape such changes is creative word of the highest order,
and requires all the deliberation possible in the interval. I believe that the amendments to
be proposed are just as necessary in the protection of legitimate business as in the clinching
of the reforms which properly bear the name of my predecessor.

A matter of most pressing importance is the revision of the tariff. In accordance with the
promises of the platform upon which I was elected, I shall call Congress into extra session
to meet on the 15th day of March, in order that consideration may be at once given to a bill
revising the Dingley Act. This should secure an adequate revenue and adjust the duties in such
a manner as to afford to labor and to all industries in this country, whether of the farm,
mine or factory, protection by tariff equal to the difference between the cost of production
abroad and the cost of production here, and have a provision which shall put into force, upon
executive determination of certain facts, a higher or maximum tariff against those countries
whose trade policy toward us equitably requires such discrimination. It is thought that there
has been such a change in conditions since the enactment of the Dingley Act, drafted on a similarly
protective principle, that the measure of the tariff above stated will permit the reduction
of rates in certain schedules and will require the advancement of few, if any.

The proposal to revise the tariff made in such an authoritative way as to lead the business
community to count upon it necessarily halts all those branches of business directly affected;
and as these are most important, it disturbs the whole business of the country. It is imperatively
necessary, therefore, that a tariff bill be drawn in good faith in accordance with promises
made before the election by the party in power, and as promptly passed as due consideration
will permit. It is not that the tariff is more important in the long run than the perfecting
of the reforms in respect to antitrust legislation and interstate commerce regulation, but
the need for action when the revision of the tariff has been determined upon is more immediate
to avoid embarrassment of business. To secure the needed speed in the passage of the tariff
bill, it would seem wise to attempt no other legislation at the extra session. I venture this
as a suggestion only, for the course to be taken by Congress, upon the call of the Executive,
is wholly within its discretion.

In the mailing of a tariff bill the prime motive is taxation and the securing thereby of a
revenue. Due largely to the business depression which followed the financial panic of 1907,
the revenue from customs and other sources has decreased to such an extent that the expenditures
for the current fiscal year will exceed the receipts by $100,000,000. It is imperative that
such a deficit shall not continue, and the framers of the tariff bill must, of course, have
in mind the total revenues likely to be produced by it and so arrange the duties as to secure
an adequate income. Should it be impossible to do so by import duties, new kinds of taxation
must be adopted, and among these I recommend a graduated inheritance tax as correct in principle
and as certain and easy of collection.

The obligation on the part of those responsible for the expenditures made to carry on the Government,
to be as economical as possible, and to make the burden of taxation as light as possible, is
plain, and should be affirmed in every declaration of government policy. This is especially
true when we are face to face with a heavy deficit. But when the desire to win the popular
approval leads to the cutting off of expenditures really needed to make the Government effective
and to enable it to accomplish its proper objects, the result is as much to be condemned as
the waste of government funds in unnecessary expenditure. The scope of a modern government
in what it can and ought to accomplish for its people has been widened far beyond the principles
laid down by the old "laissez faire" school of political writers, and this widening has met
popular approval.

In the Department of Agriculture the use of scientific experiments on a large scale and the
spread of information derived from them for the improvement of general agriculture must go on.

The importance of supervising business of great railways and industrial combinations and the
necessary investigation and prosecution of unlawful business methods are another necessary
tax upon Government which did not exist half a century ago.

The putting into force of laws which shall secure the conservation of our resources, so far
as they may be within the jurisdiction of the Federal Government, including the most important
work of saving and restoring our forests and the great improvement of waterways, are all proper
government functions which must involve large expenditure if properly performed. While some
of them, like the reclamation of arid lands, are made to pay for themselves, others are of
such an indirect benefit that this cannot be expected of them. A permanent improvement, like
the Panama Canal, should be treated as a distinct enterprise, and should be paid for by the
proceeds of bonds, the issue of which will distribute its cost between the present and future
generations in accordance with the benefits derived. It may well be submitted to the serious
consideration of Congress whether the deepening and control of the channel of a great river
system, like that of the Ohio or of the Mississippi, when definite and practical plans for
the enterprise have been approved and determined upon, should not be provided for in the same way.

Then, too, there are expenditures of Government absolutely necessary if our country is to maintain
its proper place among the nations of the world, and is to exercise its proper influence in
defense of its own trade interests in the maintenance of traditional American policy against
the colonization of European monarchies in this hemisphere, and in the promotion of peace and
international morality. I refer to the cost of maintaining a proper army, a proper navy, and
suitable fortifications upon the mainland of the United States and in its dependencies.

We should have an army so organized and so officered as to be capable in time of emergency,
in cooperation with the national militia and under the provisions of a proper national volunteer
law, rapidly to expand into a force sufficient to resist all probable invasion from abroad
and to furnish a respectable expeditionary force if necessary in the maintenance of our traditional
American policy which bears the name of President Monroe.

Our fortifications are yet in a state of only partial completeness, and the number of men to
man them is insufficient. In a few years however, the usual annual appropriations for our coast
defenses, both on the mainland and in the dependencies, will make them sufficient to resist
all direct attack, and by that time we may hope that the men to man them will be provided as
a necessary adjunct. The distance of our shores from Europe and Asia of course reduces the
necessity for maintaining under arms a great army, but it does not take away the requirement
of mere prudence--that we should have an army sufficiently large and so constituted as to form
a nucleus out of which a suitable force can quickly grow.

What has been said of the army may be affirmed in even a more emphatic way of the navy. A modern
navy can not be improvised. It must be built and in existence when the emergency arises which
calls for its use and operation. My distinguished predecessor has in many speeches and messages
set out with great force and striking language the necessity for maintaining a strong navy
commensurate with the coast line, the governmental resources, and the foreign trade of our
Nation; and I wish to reiterate all the reasons which he has presented in favor of the policy
of maintaining a strong navy as the best conservator of our peace with other nations, and the
best means of securing respect for the assertion of our rights, the defense of our interests,
and the exercise of our influence in international matters.

Our international policy is always to promote peace. We shall enter into any war with a full
consciousness of the awful consequences that it always entails, whether successful or not,
and we, of course, shall make every effort consistent with national honor and the highest national
interest to avoid a resort to arms. We favor every instrumentality, like that of the Hague
Tribunal and arbitration treaties made with a view to its use in all international controversies,
in order to maintain peace and to avoid war. But we should be blind to existing conditions
and should allow ourselves to become foolish idealists if we did not realize that, with all
the nations of the world armed and prepared for war, we must be ourselves in a similar condition,
in order to prevent other nations from taking advantage of us and of our inability to defend
our interests and assert our rights with a strong hand.

In the international controversies that are likely to arise in the Orient growing out of the
question of the open door and other issues the United States can maintain her interests intact
and can secure respect for her just demands. She will not be able to do so, however, if it
is understood that she never intends to back up her assertion of right and her defense of her
interest by anything but mere verbal protest and diplomatic note. For these reasons the expenses
of the army and navy and of coast defenses should always be considered as something which the
Government must pay for, and they should not be cut off through mere consideration of economy.
Our Government is able to afford a suitable army and a suitable navy. It may maintain them
without the slightest danger to the Republic or the cause of free institutions, and fear of
additional taxation ought not to change a proper policy in this regard.

The policy of the United States in the Spanish war and since has given it a position of influence
among the nations that it never had before, and should be constantly exerted to securing to
its bona fide citizens, whether native or naturalized, respect for them as such in foreign
countries. We should make every effort to prevent humiliating and degrading prohibition against
any of our citizens wishing temporarily to sojourn in foreign countries because of race or
religion.

The admission of Asiatic immigrants who cannot be amalgamated with our population has been
made the subject either of prohibitory clauses in our treaties and statutes or of strict administrative
regulation secured by diplomatic negotiation. I sincerely hope that we may continue to minimize
the evils likely to arise from such immigration without unnecessary friction and by mutual
concessions between self-respecting governments. Meantime we must take every precaution to
prevent, or failing that, to punish outbursts of race feeling among our people against foreigners
of whatever nationality who have by our grant a treaty right to pursue lawful business here
and to be protected against lawless assault or injury.

This leads me to point out a serious defect in the present federal jurisdiction, which ought
to be remedied at once. Having assured to other countries by treaty the protection of our laws
for such of their subjects or citizens as we permit to come within our jurisdiction, we now
leave to a state or a city, not under the control of the Federal Government, the duty of performing
our international obligations in this respect. By proper legislation we may, and ought to,
place in the hands of the Federal Executive the means of enforcing the treaty rights of such
aliens in the courts of the Federal Government. It puts our Government in a pusillanimous position
to make definite engagements to protect aliens and then to excuse the failure to perform those
engagements by an explanation that the duty to keep them is in States or cities, not within
our control. If we would promise we must put ourselves in a position to perform our promise.
We cannot permit the possible failure of justice, due to local prejudice in any State or municipal
government, to expose us to the risk of a war which might be avoided if federal jurisdiction
was asserted by suitable legislation by Congress and carried out by proper proceedings instituted
by the Executive in the courts of the National Government.

One of the reforms to be carried out during the incoming administration is a change of our
monetary and banking laws, so as to secure greater elasticity in the forms of currency available
for trade and to prevent the limitations of law from operating to increase the embarrassment
of a financial panic. The monetary commission, lately appointed, is giving full consideration
to existing conditions and to all proposed remedies, and will doubtless suggest one that will
meet the requirements of business and of public interest.

We may hope that the report will embody neither the narrow dew of those who believe that the
sole purpose of the new system should be to secure a large return on banking capital or of
those who would have greater expansion of currency with little regard to provisions for its
immediate redemption or ultimate security. There is no subject of economic discussion so intricate
and so likely to evoke differing views and dogmatic statements as this one. The commission,
in studying the general influence of currency on business and of business on currency, have
wisely extended their investigations in European banking and monetary methods. The information
that they have derived from such experts as they have found abroad will undoubtedly be found
helpful in the solution of the difficult problem they have in hand.

The incoming Congress should promptly fulfill the promise of the Republican platform and pass
a proper postal savings bank bill. It will not be unwise or excessive paternalism. The promise
to repay by the Government will furnish an inducement to savings deposits which private enterprise
can not supply and at such a low rate of interest as not to withdraw custom from existing banks.
It will substantially increase the funds available for investment as capital in useful enterprises.
It will furnish absolute security which makes the proposed scheme of government guaranty of
deposits so alluring, without its pernicious results.

I sincerely hope that the incoming Congress will be alive, as it should be, to the importance
of our foreign trade and of encouraging it in every way feasible. The possibility of increasing
this trade in the Orient, in the Philippines, and in South America are known to everyone who
has given the matter attention. The direct effect of free trade between this country and the
Philippines will be marked upon our sales of cottons, agricultural machinery, and other manufactures.
The necessity of the establishment of direct lines of steamers between North and South America
has been brought to the attention of Congress by my predecessor and by Mr. Root before and
after his noteworthy visit to that continent, and I sincerely hope that Congress may be induced
to see the wisdom of a tentative effort to establish such lines by the use of mail subsidies.

The importance of the part which the Departments of Agriculture and of Commerce and Labor may
play in ridding the markets of Europe of prohibitions and discriminations against the importation
of our products is fully understood, and it is hoped that the use of the maximum and minimum
feature of our tariff law to be soon passed will be effective to remove many of those restrictions.

The Panama Canal will have a most important bearing upon the trade between the eastern and
far western sections of our country, and will greatly increase the facilities for transportation
between the eastern and the western seaboard, and may possibly revolutionize the transcontinental
rates with respect to bulky merchandise. It will also have a most beneficial effect to increase
the trade between the eastern seaboard of the United States and the western coast of South
America, and, indeed, with some of the important ports on the east coast of South America reached
by rail from the west coast.

The work on the canal is making most satisfactory progress. The type of the canal as a lock
canal was fixed by Congress after a full consideration of the conflicting reports of the majority
and minority of the consulting board, and after the recommendation of the War Department and
the Executive upon those reports. Recent suggestion that something had occurred on the Isthmus
to make the lock type of the canal less feasible than it was supposed to be when the reports
were made and the policy determined on led to a visit to the Isthmus of a board of competent
engineers to examine the Gatun dam and locks, which are the key of the lock type. The report
of that board shows nothing has occurred in the nature of newly revealed evidence which should
change the views once formed in the original discussion. The construction will go on under
a most effective organization controlled by Colonel Goethals and his fellow army engineers
associated with him, and will certainly be completed early in the next administration, if not
before.

Some type of canal must be constructed. The lock type has been selected. We are all in favor
of having it built as promptly as possible. We must not now, therefore, keep up a fire in the
rear of the agents whom we have authorized to do our work on the Isthmus. We must hold up their
hands, and speaking for the incoming administration I wish to say that I propose to devote
all the energy possible and under my control to pushing of this work on the plans which have
been adopted, and to stand behind the men who are doing faithful, hard work to bring about
the early completion of this, the greatest constructive enterprise of modern times.

The governments of our dependencies in Porto Rico and the Philippines are progressing as favorably
as could be desired. The prosperity of Porto Rico continues unabated. The business conditions
in the Philippines are not all that we could wish them to be, but with the passage of the new
tariff bill permitting free trade between the United States and the archipelago, with such
limitations on sugar and tobacco as shall prevent injury to domestic interests in those products,
we can count on an improvement in business conditions in the Philippines and the development
of a mutually profitable trade between this country and the islands. Meantime our Government
in each dependency is upholding the traditions of civil liberty and increasing popular control
which might be expected under American auspices. The work which we are doing there redounds
to our credit as a nation.

I look forward with hope to increasing the already good feeling between the South and the other
sections of the country. My chief purpose is not to effect a change in the electoral vote of
the Southern States. That is a secondary consideration. What I look forward to is an increase
in the tolerance of political views of all kinds and their advocacy throughout the South, and
the existence of a respectable political opposition in every State; even more than this, to
an increased feeling on the part of all the people in the South that this Government is their
Government, and that its officers in their states are their officers.

The consideration of this question can not, however, be complete and full without reference
to the negro race, its progress and its present condition. The thirteenth amendment secured
them freedom; the fourteenth amendment due process of law, protection of property, and the
pursuit of happiness; and the fifteenth amendment attempted to secure the negro against any
deprivation of the privilege to vote because he was a negro. The thirteenth and fourteenth
amendments have been generally enforced and have secured the objects for which they are intended.
While the fifteenth amendment has not been generally observed in the past, it ought to be observed,
and the tendency of Southern legislation today is toward the enactment of electoral qualifications
which shall square with that amendment. Of course, the mere adoption of a constitutional law
is only one step in the right direction. It must be fairly and justly enforced as well. In
time both will come. Hence it is clear to all that the domination of an ignorant, irresponsible
element can be prevented by constitutional laws which shall exclude from voting both negroes
and whites not having education or other qualifications thought to be necessary for a proper
electorate. The danger of the control of an ignorant electorate has therefore passed. With
this change, the interest which many of the Southern white citizens take in the welfare of
the negroes has increased. The colored men must base their hope on the results of their own
industry, self-restraint, thrift, and business success, as well as upon the aid and comfort
and sympathy which they may receive from their white neighbors of the South.

There was a time when Northerners who sympathized with the negro in his necessary struggle
for better conditions sought to give him the suffrage as a protection to enforce its exercise
against the prevailing sentiment of the South. The movement proved to be a failure. What remains
is the fifteenth amendment to the Constitution and the right to have statutes of States specifying
qualifications for electors subjected to the test of compliance with that amendment. This is
a great protection to the negro. It never will be repealed, and it never ought to be repealed.
If it had not passed, it might be difficult now to adopt it; but with it in our fundamental
law, the policy of Southern legislation must and will tend to obey it, and so long as the statutes
of the States meet the test of this amendment and are not otherwise in conflict with the Constitution
and laws of the United States, it is not the disposition or within the province of the Federal
Government to interfere with the regulation by Southern States of their domestic affairs. There
is in the South a stronger feeling than ever among the intelligent well-to-do, and influential
element in favor of the industrial education of the negro and the encouragement of the race
to make themselves useful members of the community. The progress which the negro has made in
the last fifty years, from slavery, when its statistics are reviewed, is marvelous, and it
furnishes every reason to hope that in the next twenty-five years a still greater improvement
in his condition as a productive member of society, on the farm, and in the shop, and in other
occupations may come.

The negroes are now Americans. Their ancestors came here years ago against their will, and
this is their only country and their only flag. They have shown themselves anxious to live
for it and to die for it. Encountering the race feeling against them, subjected at times to
cruel injustice growing out of it, they may well have our profound sympathy and aid in the
struggle they are making. We are charged with the sacred duty of making their path as smooth
and easy as we can. Any recognition of their distinguished men, any appointment to office from
among their number, is properly taken as an encouragement and an appreciation of their progress,
and this just policy should be pursued when suitable occasion offers.

But it may well admit of doubt whether, in the case of any race, an appointment of one of their
number to a local office in a community in which the race feeling is so widespread and acute
as to interfere with the ease and facility with which the local government business can be
done by the appointee is of sufficient benefit by way of encouragement to the race to outweigh
the recurrence and increase of race feeling which such an appointment is likely to engender.
Therefore the Executive, in recognizing the negro race by appointments, must exercise a careful
discretion not thereby to do it more harm than good. On the other hand, we must be careful
not to encourage the mere pretense of race feeling manufactured in the interest of individual
political ambition.

Personally, I have not the slightest race prejudice or feeling, and recognition of its existence
only awakens in my heart a deeper sympathy for those who have to bear it or suffer from it,
and I question the wisdom of a policy which is likely to increase it. Meantime, if nothing
is done to prevent it, a better feeling between the negroes and the whites in the South will
continue to grow, and more and more of the white people will come to realize that the future
of the South is to be much benefited by the industrial and intellectual progress of the negro.
The exercise of political franchises by those of this race who are intelligent and well to
do will be acquiesced in, and the right to vote will be withheld only from the ignorant and
irresponsible of both races.

There is one other matter to which I shall refer. It was made the subject of great controversy
during the election and calls for at least a passing reference now. My distinguished predecessor
has given much attention to the cause of labor, with whose struggle for better things he has
shown the sincerest sympathy. At his instance Congress has passed the bill fixing the liability
of interstate carriers to their employees for injury sustained in the course of employment,
abolishing the rule of fellow-servant and the common-law rule as to contributory negligence,
and substituting therefor the so-called rule of "comparative negligence." It has also passed
a law fixing the compensation of government employees for injuries sustained in the employ
of the Government through the negligence of the superior. It has also passed a model child-labor
law for the District of Columbia. In previous administrations an arbitration law for interstate
commerce railroads and their employees, and laws for the application of safety devices to save
the lives and limbs of employees of interstate railroads had been passed. Additional legislation
of this kind was passed by the outgoing Congress.

I wish to say that insofar as I can I hope to promote the enactment of further legislation
of this character. I am strongly convinced that the Government should make itself as responsible
to employees injured in its employ as an interstate-railway corporation is made responsible
by federal law to its employees; and I shall be glad, whenever any additional reasonable safety
device can be invented to reduce the loss of life and limb among railway employees, to urge
Congress to require its adoption by interstate railways.

Another labor question has arisen which has awakened the most excited discussion. That is in
respect to the power of the federal courts to issue injunctions in industrial disputes. As
to that, my convictions are fixed. Take away from the courts, if it could be taken away, the
power to issue injunctions in labor disputes, and it would create a privileged class among
the laborers and save the lawless among their number from a most needful remedy available to
all men for the protection of their business against lawless invasion. The proposition that
business is not a property or pecuniary right which can be protected by equitable injunction
is utterly without foundation in precedent or reason. The proposition is usually linked with
one to make the secondary boycott lawful. Such a proposition is at variance with the American
instinct, and will find no support, in my judgment, when submitted to the American people.
The secondary boycott is an instrument of tyranny, and ought not to be made legitimate.

The issue of a temporary restraining order without notice has in several instances been abused
by its inconsiderate exercise, and to remedy this the platform upon which I was elected recommends
the formulation in a statute of the conditions under which such a temporary restraining order
ought to issue. A statute can and ought to be framed to embody the best modern practice, and
can bring the subject so closely to the attention of the court as to make abuses of the process
unlikely in the future. The American people, if I understand them, insist that the authority
of the courts shall be sustained, and are opposed to any change in the procedure by which the
powers of a court may be weakened and the fearless and effective administration of justice
be interfered with.

Having thus reviewed the questions likely to recur during my administration, and having expressed
in a summary way the position which I expect to take in recommendations to Congress and in
my conduct as an Executive, I invoke the considerate sympathy and support of my fellow-citizens
and the aid of the Almighty God in the discharge of my responsible duties.

We are provincials no longer.

*****

Warren G. Harding Inaugural Address Friday, March 4, 1921

My Countrymen:

WHEN one surveys the world about him after the great storm, noting the marks of destruction
and yet rejoicing in the ruggedness of the things which withstood it, if he is an American
he breathes the clarified atmosphere with a strange mingling of regret and new hope. We have
seen a world passion spend its fury, but we contemplate our Republic unshaken, and hold our
civilization secure. Liberty--liberty within the law--and civilization are inseparable, and
though both were threatened we find them now secure; and there comes to Americans the profound
assurance that our representative government is the highest expression and surest guaranty of both.

Standing in this presence, mindful of the solemnity of this occasion, feeling the emotions
which no one may know until he senses the great weight of responsibility for himself, I must
utter my belief in the divine inspiration of the founding fathers. Surely there must have been
God's intent in the making of this new-world Republic. Ours is an organic law which had but
one ambiguity, and we saw that effaced in a baptism of sacrifice and blood, with union maintained,
the Nation supreme, and its concord inspiring. We have seen the world rivet its hopeful gaze
on the great truths on which the founders wrought. We have seen civil, human, and religious
liberty verified and glorified. In the beginning the Old World scoffed at our experiment; today
our foundations of political and social belief stand unshaken, a precious inheritance to ourselves,
an inspiring example of freedom and civilization to all mankind. Let us express renewed and
strengthened devotion, in grateful reverence for the immortal beginning, and utter our confidence
in the supreme fulfillment.

The recorded progress of our Republic, materially and spiritually, in itself proves the wisdom
of the inherited policy of noninvolvement in Old World affairs. Confident of our ability to
work out our own destiny, and jealously guarding our right to do so, we seek no part in directing
the destinies of the Old World. We do not mean to be entangled. We will accept no responsibility
except as our own conscience and judgment, in each instance, may determine.

Our eyes never will be blind to a developing menace, our ears never deaf to the call of civilization.
We recognize the new order in the world, with the closer contacts which progress has wrought.
We sense the call of the human heart for fellowship, fraternity, and cooperation. We crave
friendship and harbor no hate. But America, our America, the America builded on the foundation
laid by the inspired fathers, can be a party to no permanent military alliance. It can enter
into no political commitments, nor assume any economic obligations which will subject our decisions
to any other than our own authority.

I am sure our own people will not misunderstand, nor will the world misconstrue. We have no
thought to impede the paths to closer relationship. We wish to promote understanding. We want
to do our part in making offensive warfare so hateful that Governments and peoples who resort
to it must prove the righteousness of their cause or stand as outlaws before the bar of civilization.

We are ready to associate ourselves with the nations of the world, great and small, for conference,
for counsel; to seek the expressed views of world opinion; to recommend a way to approximate
disarmament and relieve the crushing burdens of military and naval establishments. We elect
to participate in suggesting plans for mediation, conciliation, and arbitration, and would
gladly join in that expressed conscience of progress, which seeks to clarify and write the
laws of international relationship, and establish a world court for the disposition of such
justiciable questions as nations are agreed to submit thereto. In expressing aspirations, in
seeking practical plans, in translating humanity's new concept of righteousness and justice
and its hatred of war into recommended action we are ready most heartily to unite, but every
commitment must be made in the exercise of our national sovereignty. Since freedom impelled,
and independence inspired, and nationality exalted, a world supergovernment is contrary to
everything we cherish and can have no sanction by our Republic. This is not selfishness, it
is sanctity. It is not aloofness, it is security. It is not suspicion of others, it is patriotic
adherence to the things which made us what we are.

Today, better than ever before, we know the aspirations of humankind, and share them. We have
come to a new realization of our place in the world and a new appraisal of our Nation by the
world. The unselfishness of these United States is a thing proven; our devotion to peace for
ourselves and for the world is well established; our concern for preserved civilization has
had its impassioned and heroic expression. There was no American failure to resist the attempted
reversion of civilization; there will be no failure today or tomorrow.

The success of our popular government rests wholly upon the correct interpretation of the deliberate,
intelligent, dependable popular will of America. In a deliberate questioning of a suggested
change of national policy, where internationality was to supersede nationality, we turned to
a referendum, to the American people. There was ample discussion, and there is a public mandate
in manifest understanding.

America is ready to encourage, eager to initiate, anxious to participate in any seemly program
likely to lessen the probability of war, and promote that brotherhood of mankind which must
be God's highest conception of human relationship. Because we cherish ideals of justice and
peace, because we appraise international comity and helpful relationship no less highly than
any people of the world, we aspire to a high place in the moral leadership of civilization,
and we hold a maintained America, the proven Republic, the unshaken temple of representative
democracy, to be not only an inspiration and example, but the highest agency of strengthening
good will and promoting accord on both continents.

Mankind needs a world-wide benediction of understanding. It is needed among individuals, among
peoples, among governments, and it will inaugurate an era of good feeling to make the birth
of a new order. In such understanding men will strive confidently for the promotion of their
better relationships and nations will promote the comities so essential to peace.

We must understand that ties of trade bind nations in closest intimacy, and none may receive
except as he gives. We have not strengthened ours in accordance with our resources or our genius,
notably on our own continent, where a galaxy of Republics reflects the glory of new-world democracy,
but in the new order of finance and trade we mean to promote enlarged activities and seek expanded
confidence.

Perhaps we can make no more helpful contribution by example than prove a Republic's capacity
to emerge from the wreckage of war. While the world's embittered travail did not leave us devastated
lands nor desolated cities, left no gaping wounds, no breast with hate, it did involve us in
the delirium of expenditure, in expanded currency and credits, in unbalanced industry, in unspeakable
waste, and disturbed relationships. While it uncovered our portion of hateful selfishness at
home, it also revealed the heart of America as sound and fearless, and beating in confidence
unfailing.

Amid it all we have riveted the gaze of all civilization to the unselfishness and the righteousness
of representative democracy, where our freedom never has made offensive warfare, never has
sought territorial aggrandizement through force, never has turned to the arbitrament of arms
until reason has been exhausted. When the Governments of the earth shall have established a
freedom like our own and shall have sanctioned the pursuit of peace as we have practiced it,
I believe the last sorrow and the final sacrifice of international warfare will have been written.

Let me speak to the maimed and wounded soldiers who are present today, and through them convey
to their comrades the gratitude of the Republic for their sacrifices in its defense. A generous
country will never forget the services you rendered, and you may hope for a policy under Government
that will relieve any maimed successors from taking your places on another such occasion as this.

Our supreme task is the resumption of our onward, normal way. Reconstruction, readjustment,
restoration all these must follow. I would like to hasten them. If it will lighten the spirit
and add to the resolution with which we take up the task, let me repeat for our Nation, we
shall give no people just cause to make war upon us; we hold no national prejudices; we entertain
no spirit of revenge; we do not hate; we do not covet; we dream of no conquest, nor boast of
armed prowess.

If, despite this attitude, war is again forced upon us, I earnestly hope a way may be found
which will unify our individual and collective strength and consecrate all America, materially
and spiritually, body and soul, to national defense. I can vision the ideal republic, where
every man and woman is called under the flag for assignment to duty for whatever service, military
or civic, the individual is best fitted; where we may call to universal service every plant,
agency, or facility, all in the sublime sacrifice for country, and not one penny of war profit
shall inure to the benefit of private individual, corporation, or combination, but all above
the normal shall flow into the defense chest of the Nation. There is something inherently wrong,
something out of accord with the ideals of representative democracy, when one portion of our
citizenship turns its activities to private gain amid defensive war while another is fighting,
sacrificing, or dying for national preservation.

Out of such universal service will come a new unity of spirit and purpose, a new confidence
and consecration, which would make our defense impregnable, our triumph assured. Then we should
have little or no disorganization of our economic, industrial, and commercial systems at home,
no staggering war debts, no swollen fortunes to flout the sacrifices of our soldiers, no excuse
for sedition, no pitiable slackerism, no outrage of treason. Envy and jealousy would have no
soil for their menacing development, and revolution would be without the passion which engenders
it.

A regret for the mistakes of yesterday must not, however, blind us to the tasks of today. War
never left such an aftermath. There has been staggering loss of life and measureless wastage
of materials. Nations are still groping for return to stable ways. Discouraging indebtedness
confronts us like all the war-torn nations, and these obligations must be provided for. No
civilization can survive repudiation.

We can reduce the abnormal expenditures, and we will. We can strike at war taxation, and we
must. We must face the grim necessity, with full knowledge that the task is to be solved, and
we must proceed with a full realization that no statute enacted by man can repeal the inexorable
laws of nature. Our most dangerous tendency is to expect too much of government, and at the
same time do for it too little. We contemplate the immediate task of putting our public household
in order. We need a rigid and yet sane economy, combined with fiscal justice, and it must be
attended by individual prudence and thrift, which are so essential to this trying hour and
reassuring for the future.

The business world reflects the disturbance of war's reaction. Herein flows the lifeblood of
material existence. The economic mechanism is intricate and its parts interdependent, and has
suffered the shocks and jars incident to abnormal demands, credit inflations, and price upheavals.
The normal balances have been impaired, the channels of distribution have been clogged, the
relations of labor and management have been strained. We must seek the readjustment with care
and courage. Our people must give and take. Prices must reflect the receding fever of war activities.
Perhaps we never shall know the old levels of wages again, because war invariably readjusts
compensations, and the necessaries of life will show their inseparable relationship, but we
must strive for normalcy to reach stability. All the penalties will not be light, nor evenly
distributed. There is no way of making them so. There is no instant step from disorder to order.
We must face a condition of grim reality, charge off our losses and start afresh. It is the
oldest lesson of civilization. I would like government to do all it can to mitigate; then,
in understanding, in mutuality of interest, in concern for the common good, our tasks will
be solved. No altered system will work a miracle. Any wild experiment will only add to the
confusion. Our best assurance lies in efficient administration of our proven system.

The forward course of the business cycle is unmistakable. Peoples are turning from destruction
to production. Industry has sensed the changed order and our own people are turning to resume
their normal, onward way. The call is for productive America to go on. I know that Congress
and the Administration will favor every wise Government policy to aid the resumption and encourage
continued progress.

I speak for administrative efficiency, for lightened tax burdens, for sound commercial practices,
for adequate credit facilities, for sympathetic concern for all agricultural problems, for
the omission of unnecessary interference of Government with business, for an end to Government's
experiment in business, and for more efficient business in Government administration. With
all of this must attend a mindfulness of the human side of all activities, so that social,
industrial, and economic justice will be squared with the purposes of a righteous people.

With the nation-wide induction of womanhood into our political life, we may count upon her
intuitions, her refinements, her intelligence, and her influence to exalt the social order.
We count upon her exercise of the full privileges and the performance of the duties of citizenship
to speed the attainment of the highest state.

I wish for an America no less alert in guarding against dangers from within than it is watchful
against enemies from without. Our fundamental law recognizes no class, no group, no section;
there must be none in legislation or administration. The supreme inspiration is the common
weal. Humanity hungers for international peace, and we crave it with all mankind. My most reverent
prayer for America is for industrial peace, with its rewards, widely and generally distributed,
amid the inspirations of equal opportunity. No one justly may deny the equality of opportunity
which made us what we are. We have mistaken unpreparedness to embrace it to be a challenge
of the reality, and due concern for making all citizens fit for participation will give added
strength of citizenship and magnify our achievement.

If revolution insists upon overturning established order, let other peoples make the tragic
experiment. There is no place for it in America. When World War threatened civilization we
pledged our resources and our lives to its preservation, and when revolution threatens we unfurl
the flag of law and order and renew our consecration. Ours is a constitutional freedom where
the popular will is the law supreme and minorities are sacredly protected. Our revisions, reformations,
and evolutions reflect a deliberate judgment and an orderly progress, and we mean to cure our
ills, but never destroy or permit destruction by force.

I had rather submit our industrial controversies to the conference table in advance than to
a settlement table after conflict and suffering. The earth is thirsting for the cup of good
will, understanding is its fountain source. I would like to acclaim an era of good feeling
amid dependable prosperity and all the blessings which attend.

It has been proved again and again that we cannot, while throwing our markets open to the world,
maintain American standards of living and opportunity, and hold our industrial eminence in
such unequal competition. There is a luring fallacy in the theory of banished barriers of trade,
but preserved American standards require our higher production costs to be reflected in our
tariffs on imports. Today, as never before, when peoples are seeking trade restoration and
expansion, we must adjust our tariffs to the new order. We seek participation in the world's
exchanges, because therein lies our way to widened influence and the triumphs of peace. We
know full well we cannot sell where we do not buy, and we cannot sell successfully where we
do not carry. Opportunity is calling not alone for the restoration, but for a new era in production,
transportation and trade. We shall answer it best by meeting the demand of a surpassing home
market, by promoting self-reliance in production, and by bidding enterprise, genius, and efficiency
to carry our cargoes in American bottoms to the marts of the world.

We would not have an America living within and for herself alone, but we would have her self-reliant,
independent, and ever nobler, stronger, and richer. Believing in our higher standards, reared
through constitutional liberty and maintained opportunity, we invite the world to the same
heights. But pride in things wrought is no reflex of a completed task. Common welfare is the
goal of our national endeavor. Wealth is not inimical to welfare; it ought to be its friendliest
agency. There never can be equality of rewards or possessions so long as the human plan contains
varied talents and differing degrees of industry and thrift, but ours ought to be a country
free from the great blotches of distressed poverty. We ought to find a way to guard against
the perils and penalties of unemployment. We want an America of homes, illumined with hope
and happiness, where mothers, freed from the necessity for long hours of toil beyond their
own doors, may preside as befits the hearthstone of American citizenship. We want the cradle
of American childhood rocked under conditions so wholesome and so hopeful that no blight may
touch it in its development, and we want to provide that no selfish interest, no material necessity,
no lack of opportunity shall prevent the gaining of that education so essential to best citizenship.

There is no short cut to the making of these ideals into glad realities. The world has witnessed
again and again the futility and the mischief of ill-considered remedies for social and economic
disorders. But we are mindful today as never before of the friction of modern industrialism,
and we must learn its causes and reduce its evil consequences by sober and tested methods.
Where genius has made for great possibilities, justice and happiness must be reflected in a
greater common welfare.

Service is the supreme commitment of life. I would rejoice to acclaim the era of the Golden
Rule and crown it with the autocracy of service. I pledge an administration wherein all the
agencies of Government are called to serve, and ever promote an understanding of Government
purely as an expression of the popular will.

One cannot stand in this presence and be unmindful of the tremendous responsibility. The world
upheaval has added heavily to our tasks. But with the realization comes the surge of high resolve,
and there is reassurance in belief in the God-given destiny of our Republic. If I felt that
there is to be sole responsibility in the Executive for the America of tomorrow I should shrink
from the burden. But here are a hundred millions, with common concern and shared responsibility,
answerable to God and country. The Republic summons them to their duty, and I invite co-operation.

I accept my part with single-mindedness of purpose and humility of spirit, and implore the
favor and guidance of God in His Heaven. With these I am unafraid, and confidently face the
future. This I plight to God and country.

*****

Calvin Coolidge Inaugural Address Wednesday, March 4, 1925

My Countrymen:

NO one can contemplate current conditions without finding much that is satisfying and still
more that is encouraging. Our own country is leading the world in the general readjustment
to the results of the great conflict. Many of its burdens will bear heavily upon us for years,
and the secondary and indirect effects we must expect to experience for some time. But we are
beginning to comprehend more definitely what course should be pursued, what remedies ought
to be applied, what actions should be taken for our deliverance, and are clearly manifesting
a determined will faithfully and conscientiously to adopt these methods of relief. Already
we have sufficiently rearranged our domestic affairs so that confidence has returned, business
has revived, and we appear to be entering an era of prosperity which is gradually reaching
into every part of the Nation. Realizing that we can not live unto ourselves alone, we have
contributed of our resources and our counsel to the relief of the suffering and the settlement
of the disputes among the European nations. Because of what America is and what America has
done, a firmer courage, a higher hope, inspires the heart of all humanity.

These results have not occurred by mere chance. They have been secured by a constant and enlightened
effort marked by many sacrifices and extending over many generations. We can not continue these
brilliant successes in the future, unless we continue to learn from the past. It is necessary
to keep the former experiences of our country both at home and abroad continually before us,
if we are to have any science of government. If we wish to erect new structures, we must have
a definite knowledge of the old foundations. We must realize that human nature is about the
most constant thing in the universe and that the essentials of human relationship do not change.
We must frequently take our bearings from these fixed stars of our political firmament if we
expect to hold a true course. If we examine carefully what we have done, we can determine the
more accurately what we can do.

We stand at the opening of the one hundred and fiftieth year since our national consciousness
first asserted itself by unmistakable action with an array of force. The old sentiment of detached
and dependent colonies disappeared in the new sentiment of a united and independent Nation.
Men began to discard the narrow confines of a local charter for the broader opportunities of
a national constitution. Under the eternal urge of freedom we became an independent Nation.
A little less than 50 years later that freedom and independence were reasserted in the face
of all the world, and guarded, supported, and secured by the Monroe doctrine. The narrow fringe
of States along the Atlantic seaboard advanced its frontiers across the hills and plains of
an intervening continent until it passed down the golden slope to the Pacific. We made freedom
a birthright. We extended our domain over distant islands in order to safeguard our own interests
and accepted the consequent obligation to bestow justice and liberty upon less favored peoples.
In the defense of our own ideals and in the general cause of liberty we entered the Great War.
When victory had been fully secured, we withdrew to our own shores unrecompensed save in the
consciousness of duty done.

Throughout all these experiences we have enlarged our freedom, we have strengthened our independence.
We have been, and propose to be, more and more American. We believe that we can best serve
our own country and most successfully discharge our obligations to humanity by continuing to
be openly and candidly, in tensely and scrupulously, American. If we have any heritage, it
has been that. If we have any destiny, we have found it in that direction.

But if we wish to continue to be distinctively American, we must continue to make that term
comprehensive enough to embrace the legitimate desires of a civilized and enlightened people
determined in all their relations to pursue a conscientious and religious life. We can not
permit ourselves to be narrowed and dwarfed by slogans and phrases. It is not the adjective,
but the substantive, which is of real importance. It is not the name of the action, but the
result of the action, which is the chief concern. It will be well not to be too much disturbed
by the thought of either isolation or entanglement of pacifists and militarists. The physical
configuration of the earth has separated us from all of the Old World, but the common brotherhood
of man, the highest law of all our being, has united us by inseparable bonds with all humanity.
Our country represents nothing but peaceful intentions toward all the earth, but it ought not
to fail to maintain such a military force as comports with the dignity and security of a great
people. It ought to be a balanced force, intensely modern, capable of defense by sea and land,
beneath the surface and in the air. But it should be so conducted that all the world may see
in it, not a menace, but an instrument of security and peace.

This Nation believes thoroughly in an honorable peace under which the rights of its citizens
are to be everywhere protected. It has never found that the necessary enjoyment of such a peace
could be maintained only by a great and threatening array of arms. In common with other nations,
it is now more determined than ever to promote peace through friendliness and good will, through
mutual understandings and mutual forbearance. We have never practiced the policy of competitive
armaments. We have recently committed ourselves by covenants with the other great nations to
a limitation of our sea power. As one result of this, our Navy ranks larger, in comparison,
than it ever did before. Removing the burden of expense and jealousy, which must always accrue
from a keen rivalry, is one of the most effective methods of diminishing that unreasonable
hysteria and misunderstanding which are the most potent means of fomenting war. This policy
represents a new departure in the world. It is a thought, an ideal, which has led to an entirely
new line of action. It will not be easy to maintain. Some never moved from their old positions,
some are constantly slipping back to the old ways of thought and the old action of seizing
a musket and relying on force. America has taken the lead in this new direction, and that lead
America must continue to hold. If we expect others to rely on our fairness and justice we must
show that we rely on their fairness and justice.

If we are to judge by past experience, there is much to be hoped for in international relations
from frequent conferences and consultations. We have before us the beneficial results of the
Washington conference and the various consultations recently held upon European affairs, some
of which were in response to our suggestions and in some of which we were active participants.
Even the failures can not but be accounted useful and an immeasurable advance over threatened
or actual warfare. I am strongly in favor of continuation of this policy, whenever conditions
are such that there is even a promise that practical and favorable results might be secured.

In conformity with the principle that a display of reason rather than a threat of force should
be the determining factor in the intercourse among nations, we have long advocated the peaceful
settlement of disputes by methods of arbitration and have negotiated many treaties to secure
that result. The same considerations should lead to our adherence to the Permanent Court of
International Justice. Where great principles are involved, where great movements are under
way which promise much for the welfare of humanity by reason of the very fact that many other
nations have given such movements their actual support, we ought not to withhold our own sanction
because of any small and inessential difference, but only upon the ground of the most important
and compelling fundamental reasons. We can not barter away our independence or our sovereignty,
but we ought to engage in no refinements of logic, no sophistries, and no subterfuges, to argue
away the undoubted duty of this country by reason of the might of its numbers, the power of
its resources, and its position of leadership in the world, actively and comprehensively to
signify its approval and to bear its full share of the responsibility of a candid and disinterested
attempt at the establishment of a tribunal for the administration of even-handed justice between
nation and nation. The weight of our enormous influence must be cast upon the side of a reign
not of force but of law and trial, not by battle but by reason.

We have never any wish to interfere in the political conditions of any other countries. Especially
are we determined not to become implicated in the political controversies of the Old World.
With a great deal of hesitation, we have responded to appeals for help to maintain order, protect
life and property, and establish responsible government in some of the small countries of the
Western Hemisphere. Our private citizens have advanced large sums of money to assist in the
necessary financing and relief of the Old World. We have not failed, nor shall we fail to respond,
whenever necessary to mitigate human suffering and assist in the rehabilitation of distressed
nations. These, too, are requirements which must be met by reason of our vast powers and the
place we hold in the world.

Some of the best thought of mankind has long been seeking for a formula for permanent peace.
Undoubtedly the clarification of the principles of international law would be helpful, and
the efforts of scholars to prepare such a work for adoption by the various nations should have
our sympathy and support. Much may be hoped for from the earnest studies of those who advocate
the outlawing of aggressive war. But all these plans and preparations, these treaties and covenants,
will not of themselves be adequate. One of the greatest dangers to peace lies in the economic
pressure to which people find themselves subjected. One of the most practical things to be
done in the world is to seek arrangements under which such pressure may be removed, so that
opportunity may be renewed and hope may be revived. There must be some assurance that effort
and endeavor will be followed by success and prosperity. In the making and financing of such
adjustments there is not only an opportunity, but a real duty, for America to respond with
her counsel and her resources. Conditions must be provided under which people can make a living
and work out of their difficulties. But there is another element, more important than all,
without which there can not be the slightest hope of a permanent peace. That element lies in
the heart of humanity. Unless the desire for peace be cherished there, unless this fundamental
and only natural source of brotherly love be cultivated to its highest degree, all artificial
efforts will be in vain. Peace will come when there is realization that only under a reign
of law, based on righteousness and supported by the religious conviction of the brotherhood
of man, can there be any hope of a complete and satisfying life. Parchment will fail, the sword
will fail, it is only the spiritual nature of man that can be triumphant.

It seems altogether probable that we can contribute most to these important objects by maintaining
our position of political detachment and independence. We are not identified with any Old World
interests. This position should be made more and more clear in our relations with all foreign
countries. We are at peace with all of them. Our program is never to oppress, but always to
assist. But while we do justice to others, we must require that justice be done to us. With
us a treaty of peace means peace, and a treaty of amity means amity. We have made great contributions
to the settlement of contentious differences in both Europe and Asia. But there is a very definite
point beyond which we can not go. We can only help those who help themselves. Mindful of these
limitations, the one great duty that stands out requires us to use our enormous powers to trim
the balance of the world.

While we can look with a great deal of pleasure upon what we have done abroad, we must remember
that our continued success in that direction depends upon what we do at home. Since its very
outset, it has been found necessary to conduct our Government by means of political parties.
That system would not have survived from generation to generation if it had not been fundamentally
sound and provided the best instrumentalities for the most complete expression of the popular
will. It is not necessary to claim that it has always worked perfectly. It is enough to know
that nothing better has been devised. No one would deny that there should be full and free
expression and an opportunity for independence of action within the party. There is no salvation
in a narrow and bigoted partisanship. But if there is to be responsible party government, the
party label must be something more than a mere device for securing office. Unless those who
are elected under the same party designation are willing to assume sufficient responsibility
and exhibit sufficient loyalty and coherence, so that they can cooperate with each other in
the support of the broad general principles, of the party platform, the election is merely
a mockery, no decision is made at the polls, and there is no representation of the popular
will. Common honesty and good faith with the people who support a party at the polls require
that party, when it enters office, to assume the control of that portion of the Government
to which it has been elected. Any other course is bad faith and a violation of the party pledges.

When the country has bestowed its confidence upon a party by making it a majority in the Congress,
it has a right to expect such unity of action as will make the party majority an effective
instrument of government. This Administration has come into power with a very clear and definite
mandate from the people. The expression of the popular will in favor of maintaining our constitutional
guarantees was overwhelming and decisive. There was a manifestation of such faith in the integrity
of the courts that we can consider that issue rejected for some time to come. Likewise, the
policy of public ownership of railroads and certain electric utilities met with unmistakable
defeat. The people declared that they wanted their rights to have not a political but a judicial
determination, and their independence and freedom continued and supported by having the ownership
and control of their property, not in the Government, but in their own hands. As they always
do when they have a fair chance, the people demonstrated that they are sound and are determined
to have a sound government.

When we turn from what was rejected to inquire what was accepted, the policy that stands out
with the greatest clearness is that of economy in public expenditure with reduction and reform
of taxation. The principle involved in this effort is that of conservation. The resources of
this country are almost beyond computation. No mind can comprehend them. But the cost of our
combined governments is likewise almost beyond definition. Not only those who are now making
their tax returns, but those who meet the enhanced cost of existence in their monthly bills,
know by hard experience what this great burden is and what it does. No matter what others may
want, these people want a drastic economy. They are opposed to waste. They know that extravagance
lengthens the hours and diminishes the rewards of their labor. I favor the policy of economy,
not because I wish to save money, but because I wish to save people. The men and women of this
country who toil are the ones who bear the cost of the Government. Every dollar that we carelessly
waste means that their life will be so much the more meager. Every dollar that we prudently
save means that their life will be so much the more abundant. Economy is idealism in its most
practical form.

If extravagance were not reflected in taxation, and through taxation both directly and indirectly
injuriously affecting the people, it would not be of so much consequence. The wisest and soundest
method of solving our tax problem is through economy. Fortunately, of all the great nations
this country is best in a position to adopt that simple remedy. We do not any longer need wartime
revenues. The collection of any taxes which are not absolutely required, which do not beyond
reasonable doubt contribute to the public welfare, is only a species of legalized larceny.
Under this republic the rewards of industry belong to those who earn them. The only constitutional
tax is the tax which ministers to public necessity. The property of the country belongs to
the people of the country. Their title is absolute. They do not support any privileged class;
they do not need to maintain great military forces; they ought not to be burdened with a great
array of public employees. They are not required to make any contribution to Government expenditures
except that which they voluntarily assess upon themselves through the action of their own representatives.
Whenever taxes become burdensome a remedy can be applied by the people; but if they do not
act for themselves, no one can be very successful in acting for them.

The time is arriving when we can have further tax reduction, when, unless we wish to hamper
the people in their right to earn a living, we must have tax reform. The method of raising
revenue ought not to impede the transaction of business; it ought to encourage it. I am opposed
to extremely high rates, because they produce little or no revenue, because they are bad for
the country, and, finally, because they are wrong. We can not finance the country, we can not
improve social conditions, through any system of injustice, even if we attempt to inflict it
upon the rich. Those who suffer the most harm will be the poor. This country believes in prosperity.
It is absurd to suppose that it is envious of those who are already prosperous. The wise and
correct course to follow in taxation and all other economic legislation is not to destroy those
who have already secured success but to create conditions under which every one will have a
better chance to be successful. The verdict of the country has been given on this question.
That verdict stands. We shall do well to heed it.

These questions involve moral issues. We need not concern ourselves much about the rights of
property if we will faithfully observe the rights of persons. Under our institutions their
rights are supreme. It is not property but the right to hold property, both great and small,
which our Constitution guarantees. All owners of property are charged with a service. These
rights and duties have been revealed, through the conscience of society, to have a divine sanction.
The very stability of our society rests upon production and conservation. For individuals or
for governments to waste and squander their resources is to deny these rights and disregard
these obligations. The result of economic dissipation to a nation is always moral decay.

These policies of better international understandings, greater economy, and lower taxes have
contributed largely to peaceful and prosperous industrial relations. Under the helpful influences
of restrictive immigration and a protective tariff, employment is plentiful, the rate of pay
is high, and wage earners are in a state of contentment seldom before seen. Our transportation
systems have been gradually recovering and have been able to meet all the requirements of the
service. Agriculture has been very slow in reviving, but the price of cereals at last indicates
that the day of its deliverance is at hand.

We are not without our problems, but our most important problem is not to secure new advantages
but to maintain those which we already possess. Our system of government made up of three separate
and independent departments, our divided sovereignty composed of Nation and State, the matchless
wisdom that is enshrined in our Constitution, all these need constant effort and tireless vigilance
for their protection and support.

In a republic the first rule for the guidance of the citizen is obedience to law. Under a despotism
the law may be imposed upon the subject. He has no voice in its making, no influence in its
administration, it does not represent him. Under a free government the citizen makes his own
laws, chooses his own administrators, which do represent him. Those who want their rights respected
under the Constitution and the law ought to set the example themselves of observing the Constitution
and the law. While there may be those of high intelligence who violate the law at times, the
barbarian and the defective always violate it. Those who disregard the rules of society are
not exhibiting a superior intelligence, are not promoting freedom and independence, are not
following the path of civilization, but are displaying the traits of ignorance, of servitude,
of savagery, and treading the way that leads back to the jungle.

The essence of a republic is representative government. Our Congress represents the people
and the States. In all legislative affairs it is the natural collaborator with the President.
In spite of all the criticism which often falls to its lot, I do not hesitate to say that there
is no more independent and effective legislative body in the world. It is, and should be, jealous
of its prerogative. I welcome its cooperation, and expect to share with it not only the responsibility,
but the credit, for our common effort to secure beneficial legislation.

These are some of the principles which America represents. We have not by any means put them
fully into practice, but we have strongly signified our belief in them. The encouraging feature
of our country is not that it has reached its destination, but that it has overwhelmingly expressed
its determination to proceed in the right direction. It is true that we could, with profit,
be less sectional and more national in our thought. It would be well if we could replace much
that is only a false and ignorant prejudice with a true and enlightened pride of race. But
the last election showed that appeals to class and nationality had little effect. We were all
found loyal to a common citizenship. The fundamental precept of liberty is toleration. We can
not permit any inquisition either within or without the law or apply any religious test to
the holding of office. The mind of America must be forever free.

It is in such contemplations, my fellow countrymen, which are not exhaustive but only representative,
that I find ample warrant for satisfaction and encouragement. We should not let the much that
is to do obscure the much which has been done. The past and present show faith and hope and
courage fully justified. Here stands our country, an example of tranquillity at home, a patron
of tranquillity abroad. Here stands its Government, aware of its might but obedient to its
conscience. Here it will continue to stand, seeking peace and prosperity, solicitous for the
welfare of the wage earner, promoting enterprise, developing waterways and natural resources,
attentive to the intuitive counsel of womanhood, encouraging education, desiring the advancement
of religion, supporting the cause of justice and honor among the nations. America seeks no
earthly empire built on blood and force. No ambition, no temptation, lures her to thought of
foreign dominions. The legions which she sends forth are armed, not with the sword, but with
the cross. The higher state to which she seeks the allegiance of all mankind is not of human,
but of divine origin. She cherishes no purpose save to merit the favor of Almighty God.

*****

Herbert Hoover Inaugural Address Monday, March 4, 1929

My Countrymen:

THIS occasion is not alone the administration of the most sacred oath which can be assumed
by an American citizen. It is a dedication and consecration under God to the highest office
in service of our people. I assume this trust in the humility of knowledge that only through
the guidance of Almighty Providence can I hope to discharge its ever-increasing burdens.

It is in keeping with tradition throughout our history that I should express simply and directly
the opinions which I hold concerning some of the matters of present importance.

OUR PROGRESS

If we survey the situation of our Nation both at home and abroad, we find many satisfactions;
we find some causes for concern. We have emerged from the losses of the Great War and the reconstruction
following it with increased virility and strength. From this strength we have contributed to
the recovery and progress of the world. What America has done has given renewed hope and courage
to all who have faith in government by the people. In the large view, we have reached a higher
degree of comfort and security than ever existed before in the history of the world. Through
liberation from widespread poverty we have reached a higher degree of individual freedom than
ever before. The devotion to and concern for our institutions are deep and sincere. We are
steadily building a new race--a new civilization great in its own attainments. The influence
and high purposes of our Nation are respected among the peoples of the world. We aspire to
distinction in the world, but to a distinction based upon confidence in our sense of justice
as well as our accomplishments within our own borders and in our own lives. For wise guidance
in this great period of recovery the Nation is deeply indebted to Calvin Coolidge.

But all this majestic advance should not obscure the constant dangers from which self-government
must be safeguarded. The strong man must at all times be alert to the attack of insidious disease.

THE FAILURE OF OUR SYSTEM OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE

The most malign of all these dangers today is disregard and disobedience of law. Crime is increasing.
Confidence in rigid and speedy justice is decreasing. I am not prepared to believe that this
indicates any decay in the moral fiber of the American people. I am not prepared to believe
that it indicates an impotence of the Federal Government to enforce its laws.

It is only in part due to the additional burdens imposed upon our judicial system by the eighteenth
amendment. The problem is much wider than that. Many influences had increasingly complicated
and weakened our law enforcement organization long before the adoption of the eighteenth amendment.

To reestablish the vigor and effectiveness of law enforcement we must critically consider the
entire Federal machinery of justice, the redistribution of its functions, the simplification
of its procedure, the provision of additional special tribunals, the better selection of juries,
and the more effective organization of our agencies of investigation and prosecution that justice
may be sure and that it may be swift. While the authority of the Federal Government extends
to but part of our vast system of national, State, and local justice, yet the standards which
the Federal Government establishes have the most profound influence upon the whole structure.

We are fortunate in the ability and integrity of our Federal judges and attorneys. But the
system which these officers are called upon to administer is in many respects ill adapted to
present-day conditions. Its intricate and involved rules of procedure have become the refuge
of both big and little criminals. There is a belief abroad that by invoking technicalities,
subterfuge, and delay, the ends of justice may be thwarted by those who can pay the cost.

Reform, reorganization and strengthening of our whole judicial and enforcement system, both
in civil and criminal sides, have been advocated for years by statesmen, judges, and bar associations.
First steps toward that end should not longer be delayed. Rigid and expeditious justice is
the first safeguard of freedom, the basis of all ordered liberty, the vital force of progress.
It must not come to be in our Republic that it can be defeated by the indifference of the citizen,
by exploitation of the delays and entanglements of the law, or by combinations of criminals.
Justice must not fail because the agencies of enforcement are either delinquent or inefficiently
organized. To consider these evils, to find their remedy, is the most sore necessity of our times.

ENFORCEMENT OF THE EIGHTEENTH AMENDMENT

Of the undoubted abuses which have grown up under the eighteenth amendment, part are due to
the causes I have just mentioned; but part are due to the failure of some States to accept
their share of responsibility for concurrent enforcement and to the failure of many State and
local officials to accept the obligation under their oath of office zealously to enforce the
laws. With the failures from these many causes has come a dangerous expansion in the criminal
elements who have found enlarged opportunities in dealing in illegal liquor.

But a large responsibility rests directly upon our citizens. There would be little traffic
in illegal liquor if only criminals patronized it. We must awake to the fact that this patronage
from large numbers of law-abiding citizens is supplying the rewards and stimulating crime.

I have been selected by you to execute and enforce the laws of the country. I propose to do
so to the extent of my own abilities, but the measure of success that the Government shall
attain will depend upon the moral support which you, as citizens, extend. The duty of citizens
to support the laws of the land is coequal with the duty of their Government to enforce the
laws which exist. No greater national service can be given by men and women of good will--who,
I know, are not unmindful of the responsibilities of citizenship--than that they should, by
their example, assist in stamping out crime and outlawry by refusing participation in and condemning
all transactions with illegal liquor. Our whole system of self-government will crumble either
if officials elect what laws they will enforce or citizens elect what laws they will support.
The worst evil of disregard for some law is that it destroys respect for all law. For our citizens
to patronize the violation of a particular law on the ground that they are opposed to it is
destructive of the very basis of all that protection of life, of homes and property which they
rightly claim under other laws. If citizens do not like a law, their duty as honest men and
women is to discourage its violation; their right is openly to work for its repeal.

To those of criminal mind there can be no appeal but vigorous enforcement of the law. Fortunately
they are but a small percentage of our people. Their activities must be stopped.

A NATIONAL INVESTIGATION

I propose to appoint a national commission for a searching investigation of the whole structure
of our Federal system of jurisprudence, to include the method of enforcement of the eighteenth
amendment and the causes of abuse under it. Its purpose will be to make such recommendations
for reorganization of the administration of Federal laws and court procedure as may be found
desirable. In the meantime it is essential that a large part of the enforcement activities
be transferred from the Treasury Department to the Department of Justice as a beginning of
more effective organization.

THE RELATION OF GOVERNMENT TO BUSINESS

The election has again confirmed the determination of the American people that regulation of
private enterprise and not Government ownership or operation is the course rightly to be pursued
in our relation to business. In recent years we have established a differentiation in the whole
method of business regulation between the industries which produce and distribute commodities
on the one hand and public utilities on the other. In the former, our laws insist upon effective
competition; in the latter, because we substantially confer a monopoly by limiting competition,
we must regulate their services and rates. The rigid enforcement of the laws applicable to
both groups is the very base of equal opportunity and freedom from domination for all our people,
and it is just as essential for the stability and prosperity of business itself as for the
protection of the public at large. Such regulation should be extended by the Federal Government
within the limitations of the Constitution and only when the individual States are without
power to protect their citizens through their own authority. On the other hand, we should be
fearless when the authority rests only in the Federal Government.

COOPERATION BY THE GOVERNMENT

The larger purpose of our economic thought should be to establish more firmly stability and
security of business and employment and thereby remove poverty still further from our borders.
Our people have in recent years developed a new-found capacity for cooperation among themselves
to effect high purposes in public welfare. It is an advance toward the highest conception of
self-government. Self-government does not and should not imply the use of political agencies
alone. Progress is born of cooperation in the community--not from governmental restraints.
The Government should assist and encourage these movements of collective self-help by itself
cooperating with them. Business has by cooperation made great progress in the advancement of
service, in stability, in regularity of employment and in the correction of its own abuses.
Such progress, however, can continue only so long as business manifests its respect for law.

There is an equally important field of cooperation by the Federal Government with the multitude
of agencies, State, municipal and private, in the systematic development of those processes
which directly affect public health, recreation, education, and the home. We have need further
to perfect the means by which Government can be adapted to human service.

EDUCATION

Although education is primarily a responsibility of the States and local communities, and rightly
so, yet the Nation as a whole is vitally concerned in its development everywhere to the highest
standards and to complete universality. Self-government can succeed only through an instructed
electorate. Our objective is not simply to overcome illiteracy. The Nation has marched far
beyond that. The more complex the problems of the Nation become, the greater is the need for
more and more advanced instruction. Moreover, as our numbers increase and as our life expands
with science and invention, we must discover more and more leaders for every walk of life.
We can not hope to succeed in directing this increasingly complex civilization unless we can
draw all the talent of leadership from the whole people. One civilization after another has
been wrecked upon the attempt to secure sufficient leadership from a single group or class.
If we would prevent the growth of class distinctions and would constantly refresh our leadership
with the ideals of our people, we must draw constantly from the general mass. The full opportunity
for every boy and girl to rise through the selective processes of education can alone secure
to us this leadership.

PUBLIC HEALTH

In public health the discoveries of science have opened a new era. Many sections of our country
and many groups of our citizens suffer from diseases the eradication of which are mere matters
of administration and moderate expenditure. Public health service should be as fully organized
and as universally incorporated into our governmental system as is public education. The returns
are a thousand fold in economic benefits, and infinitely more in reduction of suffering and
promotion of human happiness.

WORLD PEACE

The United States fully accepts the profound truth that our own progress, prosperity, and peace
are interlocked with the progress, prosperity, and peace of all humanity. The whole world is
at peace. The dangers to a continuation of this peace to-day are largely the fear and suspicion
which still haunt the world. No suspicion or fear can be rightly directed toward our country.

Those who have a true understanding of America know that we have no desire for territorial
expansion, for economic or other domination of other peoples. Such purposes are repugnant to
our ideals of human freedom. Our form of government is ill adapted to the responsibilities
which inevitably follow permanent limitation of the independence of other peoples. Superficial
observers seem to find no destiny for our abounding increase in population, in wealth and power
except that of imperialism. They fail to see that the American people are engrossed in the
building for themselves of a new economic system, a new social system, a new political system
all of which are characterized by aspirations of freedom of opportunity and thereby are the
negation of imperialism. They fail to realize that because of our abounding prosperity our
youth are pressing more and more into our institutions of learning; that our people are seeking
a larger vision through art, literature, science, and travel; that they are moving toward stronger
moral and spiritual life--that from these things our sympathies are broadening beyond the bounds
of our Nation and race toward their true expression in a real brotherhood of man. They fail
to see that the idealism of America will lead it to no narrow or selfish channel, but inspire
it to do its full share as a nation toward the advancement of civilization. It will do that
not by mere declaration but by taking a practical part in supporting all useful international
undertakings. We not only desire peace with the world, but to see peace maintained throughout
the world. We wish to advance the reign of justice and reason toward the extinction of force.

The recent treaty for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy sets an advanced
standard in our conception of the relations of nations. Its acceptance should pave the way
to greater limitation of armament, the offer of which we sincerely extend to the world. But
its full realization also implies a greater and greater perfection in the instrumentalities
for pacific settlement of controversies between nations. In the creation and use of these instrumentalities
we should support every sound method of conciliation, arbitration, and judicial settlement.
American statesmen were among the first to propose and they have constantly urged upon the
world, the establishment of a tribunal for the settlement of controversies of a justiciable
character. The Permanent Court of International Justice in its major purpose is thus peculiarly
identified with American ideals and with American statesmanship. No more potent instrumentality
for this purpose has ever been conceived and no other is practicable of establishment. The
reservations placed upon our adherence should not be misinterpreted. The United States seeks
by these reservations no special privilege or advantage but only to clarify our relation to
advisory opinions and other matters which are subsidiary to the major purpose of the court.
The way should, and I believe will, be found by which we may take our proper place in a movement
so fundamental to the progress of peace.

Our people have determined that we should make no political engagements such as membership
in the League of Nations, which may commit us in advance as a nation to become involved in
the settlements of controversies between other countries. They adhere to the belief that the
independence of America from such obligations increases its ability and availability for service
in all fields of human progress.

I have lately returned from a journey among our sister Republics of the Western Hemisphere.
I have received unbounded hospitality and courtesy as their expression of friendliness to our
country. We are held by particular bonds of sympathy and common interest with them. They are
each of them building a racial character and a culture which is an impressive contribution
to human progress. We wish only for the maintenance of their independence, the growth of their
stability, and their prosperity. While we have had wars in the Western Hemisphere, yet on the
whole the record is in encouraging contrast with that of other parts of the world. Fortunately
the New World is largely free from the inheritances of fear and distrust which have so troubled
the Old World. We should keep it so.

It is impossible, my countrymen, to speak of peace without profound emotion. In thousands of
homes in America, in millions of homes around the world, there are vacant chairs. It would
be a shameful confession of our unworthiness if it should develop that we have abandoned the
hope for which all these men died. Surely civilization is old enough, surely mankind is mature
enough so that we ought in our own lifetime to find a way to permanent peace. Abroad, to west
and east, are nations whose sons mingled their blood with the blood of our sons on the battlefields.
Most of these nations have contributed to our race, to our culture, our knowledge, and our
progress. From one of them we derive our very language and from many of them much of the genius
of our institutions. Their desire for peace is as deep and sincere as our own.

Peace can be contributed to by respect for our ability in defense. Peace can be promoted by
the limitation of arms and by the creation of the instrumentalities for peaceful settlement
of controversies. But it will become a reality only through self-restraint and active effort
in friendliness and helpfulness. I covet for this administration a record of having further
contributed to advance the cause of peace.

PARTY RESPONSIBILITIES

In our form of democracy the expression of the popular will can be effected only through the
instrumentality of political parties. We maintain party government not to promote intolerant
partisanship but because opportunity must be given for expression of the popular will, and
organization provided for the execution of its mandates and for accountability of government
to the people. It follows that the government both in the executive and the legislative branches
must carry out in good faith the platforms upon which the party was entrusted with power. But
the government is that of the whole people; the party is the instrument through which policies
are determined and men chosen to bring them into being. The animosities of elections should
have no place in our Government, for government must concern itself alone with the common weal.

SPECIAL SESSION OF THE CONGRESS

Action upon some of the proposals upon which the Republican Party was returned to power, particularly
further agricultural relief and limited changes in the tariff, cannot in justice to our farmers,
our labor, and our manufacturers be postponed. I shall therefore request a special session
of Congress for the consideration of these two questions. I shall deal with each of them upon
the assembly of the Congress.

OTHER MANDATES FROM THE ELECTION

It appears to me that the more important further mandates from the recent election were the
maintenance of the integrity of the Constitution; the vigorous enforcement of the laws; the
continuance of economy in public expenditure; the continued regulation of business to prevent
domination in the community; the denial of ownership or operation of business by the Government
in competition with its citizens; the avoidance of policies which would involve us in the controversies
of foreign nations; the more effective reorganization of the departments of the Federal Government;
the expansion of public works; and the promotion of welfare activities affecting education
and the home.

These were the more tangible determinations of the election, but beyond them was the confidence
and belief of the people that we would not neglect the support of the embedded ideals and aspirations
of America. These ideals and aspirations are the touchstones upon which the day-to-day administration
and legislative acts of government must be tested. More than this, the Government must, so
far as lies within its proper powers, give leadership to the realization of these ideals and
to the fruition of these aspirations. No one can adequately reduce these things of the spirit
to phrases or to a catalogue of definitions.

There is no short road to the realization of these aspirations. Ours is a progressive people,
but with a determination that progress must be based upon the foundation of experience. Ill-considered
remedies for our faults bring only penalties after them. But if we hold the faith of the men
in our mighty past who created these ideals, we shall leave them heightened and strengthened
for our children.

CONCLUSION

This is not the time and place for extended discussion. The questions before our country are
problems of progress to higher standards; they are not the problems of degeneration. They demand
thought and they serve to quicken the conscience and enlist our sense of responsibility for
their settlement. And that responsibility rests upon you, my countrymen, as much as upon those
of us who have been selected for office.

Ours is a land rich in resources; stimulating in its glorious beauty; filled with millions
of happy homes; blessed with comfort and opportunity. In no nation are the institutions of
progress more advanced. In no nation are the fruits of accomplishment more secure. In no nation
is the government more worthy of respect. No country is more loved by its people. I have an
abiding faith in their capacity, integrity and high purpose. I have no fears for the future
of our country. It is bright with hope.

In the presence of my countrymen, mindful of the solemnity of this occasion, knowing what the
task means and the responsibility which it involves, I beg your tolerance, your aid, and your
cooperation. I ask the help of Almighty God in this service to my country to which you have
called me.

*****

Franklin D. Roosevelt First Inaugural Address Saturday, March 4, 1933

I AM certain that my fellow Americans expect that on my induction into the Presidency I will
address them with a candor and a decision which the present situation of our Nation impels.
This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor
need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today. This great Nation will
endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. So, first of all, let me assert my
firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--nameless, unreasoning, unjustified
terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance. In every dark hour of
our national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding and support
of the people themselves which is essential to victory. I am convinced that you will again
give that support to leadership in these critical days.

In such a spirit on my part and on yours we face our common difficulties. They concern, thank
God, only material things. Values have shrunken to fantastic levels; taxes have risen; our
ability to pay has fallen; government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income;
the means of exchange are frozen in the currents of trade; the withered leaves of industrial
enterprise lie on every side; farmers find no markets for their produce; the savings of many
years in thousands of families are gone.

More important, a host of unemployed citizens face the grim problem of existence, and an equally
great number toil with little return. Only a foolish optimist can deny the dark realities of
the moment.

Yet our distress comes from no failure of substance. We are stricken by no plague of locusts.
Compared with the perils which our forefathers conquered because they believed and were not
afraid, we have still much to be thankful for. Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts
have multiplied it. Plenty is at our doorstep, but a generous use of it languishes in the very
sight of the supply. Practices of the unscrupulous money changers stand indicted in the court
of public opinion, rejected by the hearts and minds of men.

True they have tried, but their efforts have been cast in the pattern of an outworn tradition.
Faced by failure of credit they have proposed only the lending of more money. Stripped of the
lure of profit by which to induce our people to follow their false leadership, they have resorted
to exhortations, pleading tearfully for restored confidence. They know only the rules of a
generation of self-seekers. They have no vision, and when there is no vision the people perish.

The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization. We may
now restore that temple to the ancient truths. The measure of the restoration lies in the extent
to which we apply social values more noble than mere monetary profit.

Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the
thrill of creative effort. The joy and moral stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten
in the mad chase of evanescent profits. These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they
teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto but to minister to ourselves and
to our fellow men.

Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes hand in hand
with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and high political position are
to be valued only by the standards of pride of place and personal profit; and there must be
an end to a conduct in banking and in business which too often has given to a sacred trust
the likeness of callous and selfish wrongdoing. Small wonder that confidence languishes, for
it thrives only on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations, on faithful protection,
on unselfish performance; without them it cannot live.

Restoration calls, however, not for changes in ethics alone. This Nation asks for action, and
action now.

Our greatest primary task is to put people to work. This is no unsolvable problem if we face
it wisely and courageously. It can be accomplished in part by direct recruiting by the Government
itself, treating the task as we would treat the emergency of a war, but at the same time, through
this employment, accomplishing greatly needed projects to stimulate and reorganize the use
of our natural resources.

Hand in hand with this we must frankly recognize the overbalance of population in our industrial
centers and, by engaging on a national scale in a redistribution, endeavor to provide a better
use of the land for those best fitted for the land. The task can be helped by definite efforts
to raise the values of agricultural products and with this the power to purchase the output
of our cities. It can be helped by preventing realistically the tragedy of the growing loss
through foreclosure of our small homes and our farms. It can be helped by insistence that the
Federal, State, and local governments act forthwith on the demand that their cost be drastically
reduced. It can be helped by the unifying of relief activities which today are often scattered,
uneconomical, and unequal. It can be helped by national planning for and supervision of all
forms of transportation and of communications and other utilities which have a definitely public
character. There are many ways in which it can be helped, but it can never be helped merely
by talking about it. We must act and act quickly.

Finally, in our progress toward a resumption of work we require two safeguards against a return
of the evils of the old order; there must be a strict supervision of all banking and credits
and investments; there must be an end to speculation with other people's money, and there must
be provision for an adequate but sound currency.

There are the lines of attack. I shall presently urge upon a new Congress in special session
detailed measures for their fulfillment, and I shall seek the immediate assistance of the several
States.

Through this program of action we address ourselves to putting our own national house in order
and making income balance outgo. Our international trade relations, though vastly important,
are in point of time and necessity secondary to the establishment of a sound national economy.
I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first. I shall spare no effort to
restore world trade by international economic readjustment, but the emergency at home cannot
wait on that accomplishment.

The basic thought that guides these specific means of national recovery is not narrowly nationalistic.
It is the insistence, as a first consideration, upon the interdependence of the various elements
in all parts of the United States--a recognition of the old and permanently important manifestation
of the American spirit of the pioneer. It is the way to recovery. It is the immediate way.
It is the strongest assurance that the recovery will endure.

If I read the temper of our people correctly, we now realize as we have never realized before
our interdependence on each other; that we can not merely take but we must give as well; that
if we are to go forward, we must move as a trained and loyal army willing to sacrifice for
the good of a common discipline, because without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership
becomes effective. We are, I know, ready and willing to submit our lives and property to such
discipline, because it makes possible a leadership which aims at a larger good. This I propose
to offer, pledging that the larger purposes will bind upon us all as a sacred obligation with
a unity of duty hitherto evoked only in time of armed strife.

With this pledge taken, I assume unhesitatingly the leadership of this great army of our people
dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common problems.

Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government which we have
inherited from our ancestors. Our Constitution is so simple and practical that it is possible
always to meet extraordinary needs by changes in emphasis and arrangement without loss of essential
form. That is why our constitutional system has proved itself the most superbly enduring political
mechanism the modern world has produced. It has met every stress of vast expansion of territory,
of foreign wars, of bitter internal strife, of world relations.

It is to be hoped that the normal balance of executive and legislative authority may be wholly
adequate to meet the unprecedented task before us. But it may be that an unprecedented demand
and need for undelayed action may call for temporary departure from that normal balance of
public procedure.

I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a stricken nation
in the midst of a stricken world may require. These measures, or such other measures as the
Congress may build out of its experience and wisdom, I shall seek, within my constitutional
authority, to bring to speedy adoption.

But in the event that the Congress shall fail to take one of these two courses, and in the
event that the national emergency is still critical, I shall not evade the clear course of
duty that will then confront me. I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrument
to meet the crisis--broad Executive power to wage a war against the emergency, as great as
the power that would be given to me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe.

For the trust reposed in me I will return the courage and the devotion that befit the time.
I can do no less. The people of the United States have not failed. In their need they have
registered a mandate that they want direct, vigorous action. They have asked for discipline
and direction under leadership. They have made me the present instrument of their wishes. In
the spirit of the gift I take it.

In this dedication of a Nation we humbly ask the blessing of God. May He protect each and every
one of us. May He guide me in the days to come.

*****

Franklin D. Roosevelt Second Inaugural Address Wednesday, January 20, 1937

WHEN four years ago we met to inaugurate a President, the Republic, single-minded in anxiety,
stood in spirit here. We dedicated ourselves to the fulfillment of a vision--to speed the time
when there would be for all the people that security and peace essential to the pursuit of
happiness. We of the Republic pledged ourselves to drive from the temple of our ancient faith
those who had profaned it; to end by action, tireless and unafraid, the stagnation and despair
of that day. We did those first things first.

Our covenant with ourselves did not stop there. Instinctively we recognized a deeper need--the
need to find through government the instrument of our united purpose to solve for the individual
the ever-rising problems of a complex civilization. Repeated attempts at their solution without
the aid of government had left us baffled and bewildered. For, without that aid, we had been
unable to create those moral controls over the services of science which are necessary to make
science a useful servant instead of a ruthless master of mankind. To do this we knew that we
must find practical controls over blind economic forces and blindly selfish men.

We of the Republic sensed the truth that democratic government has innate capacity to protect
its people against disasters once considered inevitable, to solve problems once considered
unsolvable. We would not admit that we could not find a way to master economic epidemics just
as, after centuries of fatalistic suffering, we had found a way to master epidemics of disease.
We refused to leave the problems of our common welfare to be solved by the winds of chance
and the hurricanes of disaster.

In this we Americans were discovering no wholly new truth; we were writing a new chapter in
our book of self-government.

This year marks the one hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the Constitutional Convention which
made us a nation. At that Convention our forefathers found the way out of the chaos which followed
the Revolutionary War; they created a strong government with powers of united action sufficient
then and now to solve problems utterly beyond individual or local solution. A century and a
half ago they established the Federal Government in order to promote the general welfare and
secure the blessings of liberty to the American people.

Today we invoke those same powers of government to achieve the same objectives.

Four years of new experience have not belied our historic instinct. They hold out the clear
hope that government within communities, government within the separate States, and government
of the United States can do the things the times require, without yielding its democracy. Our
tasks in the last four years did not force democracy to take a holiday.

Nearly all of us recognize that as intricacies of human relationships increase, so power to
govern them also must increase--power to stop evil; power to do good. The essential democracy
of our Nation and the safety of our people depend not upon the absence of power, but upon lodging
it with those whom the people can change or continue at stated intervals through an honest
and free system of elections. The Constitution of 1787 did not make our democracy impotent.

In fact, in these last four years, we have made the exercise of all power more democratic;
for we have begun to bring private autocratic powers into their proper subordination to the
public's government. The legend that they were invincible--above and beyond the processes of
a democracy--has been shattered. They have been challenged and beaten.

Our progress out of the depression is obvious. But that is not all that you and I mean by the
new order of things. Our pledge was not merely to do a patchwork job with secondhand materials.
By using the new materials of social justice we have undertaken to erect on the old foundations
a more enduring structure for the better use of future generations.

In that purpose we have been helped by achievements of mind and spirit. Old truths have been
relearned; untruths have been unlearned. We have always known that heedless self-interest was
bad morals; we know now that it is bad economics. Out of the collapse of a prosperity whose
builders boasted their practicality has come the conviction that in the long run economic morality
pays. We are beginning to wipe out the line that divides the practical from the ideal; and
in so doing we are fashioning an instrument of unimagined power for the establishment of a
morally better world.

This new understanding undermines the old admiration of worldly success as such. We are beginning
to abandon our tolerance of the abuse of power by those who betray for profit the elementary
decencies of life.

In this process evil things formerly accepted will not be so easily condoned. Hard-headedness
will not so easily excuse hardheartedness. We are moving toward an era of good feeling. But
we realize that there can be no era of good feeling save among men of good will.

For these reasons I am justified in believing that the greatest change we have witnessed has
been the change in the moral climate of America.

Among men of good will, science and democracy together offer an ever-richer life and ever-larger
satisfaction to the individual. With this change in our moral climate and our rediscovered
ability to improve our economic order, we have set our feet upon the road of enduring progress.

Shall we pause now and turn our back upon the road that lies ahead? Shall we call this the
promised land? Or, shall we continue on our way? For "each age is a dream that is dying, or
one that is coming to birth."

Many voices are heard as we face a great decision. Comfort says, "Tarry a while." Opportunism
says, "This is a good spot." Timidity asks, "How difficult is the road ahead?"

True, we have come far from the days of stagnation and despair. Vitality has been preserved.
Courage and confidence have been restored. Mental and moral horizons have been extended.

But our present gains were won under the pressure of more than ordinary circumstances. Advance
became imperative under the goad of fear and suffering. The times were on the side of progress.

To hold to progress today, however, is more difficult. Dulled conscience, irresponsibility,
and ruthless self-interest already reappear. Such symptoms of prosperity may become portents
of disaster! Prosperity already tests the persistence of our progressive purpose.

Let us ask again: Have we reached the goal of our vision of that fourth day of March 1933?
Have we found our happy valley?

I see a great nation, upon a great continent, blessed with a great wealth of natural resources.
Its hundred and thirty million people are at peace among themselves; they are making their
country a good neighbor among the nations. I see a United States which can demonstrate that,
under democratic methods of government, national wealth can be translated into a spreading
volume of human comforts hitherto unknown, and the lowest standard of living can be raised
far above the level of mere subsistence.

But here is the challenge to our democracy: In this nation I see tens of millions of its citizens--a
substantial part of its whole population--who at this very moment are denied the greater part
of what the very lowest standards of today call the necessities of life.

I see millions of families trying to live on incomes so meager that the pall of family disaster
hangs over them day by day.

I see millions whose daily lives in city and on farm continue under conditions labeled indecent
by a so-called polite society half a century ago.

I see millions denied education, recreation, and the opportunity to better their lot and the
lot of their children.

I see millions lacking the means to buy the products of farm and factory and by their poverty
denying work and productiveness to many other millions.

I see one-third of a nation ill-housed, ill-clad, ill-nourished.

It is not in despair that I paint you that picture. I paint it for you in hope--because the
Nation, seeing and understanding the injustice in it, proposes to paint it out. We are determined
to make every American citizen the subject of his country's interest and concern; and we will
never regard any faithful law-abiding group within our borders as superfluous. The test of
our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much; it is whether
we provide enough for those who have too little.

If I know aught of the spirit and purpose of our Nation, we will not listen to Comfort, Opportunism,
and Timidity. We will carry on.

Overwhelmingly, we of the Republic are men and women of good will; men and women who have more
than warm hearts of dedication; men and women who have cool heads and willing hands of practical
purpose as well. They will insist that every agency of popular government use effective instruments
to carry out their will.

Government is competent when all who compose it work as trustees for the whole people. It can
make constant progress when it keeps abreast of all the facts. It can obtain justified support
and legitimate criticism when the people receive true information of all that government does.

If I know aught of the will of our people, they will demand that these conditions of effective
government shall be created and maintained. They will demand a nation uncorrupted by cancers
of injustice and, therefore, strong among the nations in its example of the will to peace.

Today we reconsecrate our country to long-cherished ideals in a suddenly changed civilization.
In every land there are always at work forces that drive men apart and forces that draw men
together. In our personal ambitions we are individualists. But in our seeking for economic
and political progress as a nation, we all go up, or else we all go down, as one people.

To maintain a democracy of effort requires a vast amount of patience in dealing with differing
methods, a vast amount of humility. But out of the confusion of many voices rises an understanding
of dominant public need. Then political leadership can voice common ideals, and aid in their
realization.

In taking again the oath of office as President of the United States, I assume the solemn obligation
of leading the American people forward along the road over which they have chosen to advance.

While this duty rests upon me I shall do my utmost to speak their purpose and to do their will,
seeking Divine guidance to help us each and every one to give light to them that sit in darkness
and to guide our feet into the way of peace.

*****

Franklin D. Roosevelt Third Inaugural Address Monday, January 20, 1941

ON each national day of inauguration since 1789, the people have renewed their sense of dedication
to the United States.

In Washington's day the task of the people was to create and weld together a nation.

In Lincoln's day the task of the people was to preserve that Nation from disruption from within.

In this day the task of the people is to save that Nation and its institutions from disruption
from without.

To us there has come a time, in the midst of swift happenings, to pause for a moment and take
stock--to recall what our place in history has been, and to rediscover what we are and what
we may be. If we do not, we risk the real peril of inaction.

Lives of nations are determined not by the count of years, but by the lifetime of the human
spirit. The life of a man is three-score years and ten: a little more, a little less. The life
of a nation is the fullness of the measure of its will to live.

There are men who doubt this. There are men who believe that democracy, as a form of Government
and a frame of life, is limited or measured by a kind of mystical and artificial fate that,
for some unexplained reason, tyranny and slavery have become the surging wave of the future--and
that freedom is an ebbing tide.

But we Americans know that this is not true.

Eight years ago, when the life of this Republic seemed frozen by a fatalistic terror, we proved
that this is not true. We were in the midst of shock--but we acted. We acted quickly, boldly,
decisively.

These later years have been living years--fruitful years for the people of this democracy.
For they have brought to us greater security and, I hope, a better understanding that life's
ideals are to be measured in other than material things. Most vital to our present and our
future is this experience of a democracy which successfully survived crisis at home; put away
many evil things; built new structures on enduring lines; and, through it all, maintained the
fact of its democracy.

For action has been taken within the three-way framework of the Constitution of the United
States. The coordinate branches of the Government continue freely to function. The Bill of
Rights remains inviolate. The freedom of elections is wholly maintained. Prophets of the downfall
of American democracy have seen their dire predictions come to naught.

Democracy is not dying.

We know it because we have seen it revive--and grow.

We know it cannot die--because it is built on the unhampered initiative of individual men and
women joined together in a common enterprise--an enterprise undertaken and carried through
by the free expression of a free majority.

We know it because democracy alone, of all forms of government, enlists the full force of men's
enlightened will.

We know it because democracy alone has constructed an unlimited civilization capable of infinite
progress in the improvement of human life.

We know it because, if we look below the surface, we sense it still spreading on every continent--for
it is the most humane, the most advanced, and in the end the most unconquerable of all forms
of human society.

A nation, like a person, has a body--a body that must be fed and clothed and housed, invigorated
and rested, in a manner that measures up to the objectives of our time.

A nation, like a person, has a mind--a mind that must be kept informed and alert, that must
know itself, that understands the hopes and the needs of its neighbors--all the other nations
that live within the narrowing circle of the world.

And a nation, like a person, has something deeper, something more permanent, something larger
than the sum of all its parts. It is that something which matters most to its future--which
calls forth the most sacred guarding of its present.

It is a thing for which we find it difficult--even impossible--to hit upon a single, simple word.

And yet we all understand what it is--the spirit--the faith of America. It is the product of
centuries. It was born in the multitudes of those who came from many lands--some of high degree,
but mostly plain people, who sought here, early and late, to find freedom more freely.

The democratic aspiration is no mere recent phase in human history. It is human history. It
permeated the ancient life of early peoples. It blazed anew in the middle ages. It was written
in Magna Charta.

In the Americas its impact has been irresistible. America has been the New World in all tongues,
to all peoples, not because this continent was a new-found land, but because all those who
came here believed they could create upon this continent a new life--a life that should be
new in freedom.

Its vitality was written into our own Mayflower Compact, into the Declaration of Independence,
into the Constitution of the United States, into the Gettysburg Address.

Those who first came here to carry out the longings of their spirit, and the millions who followed,
and the stock that sprang from them--all have moved forward constantly and consistently toward
an ideal which in itself has gained stature and clarity with each generation.

The hopes of the Republic cannot forever tolerate either undeserved poverty or self-serving wealth.

We know that we still have far to go; that we must more greatly build the security and the
opportunity and the knowledge of every citizen, in the measure justified by the resources and
the capacity of the land.

But it is not enough to achieve these purposes alone. It is not enough to clothe and feed the
body of this Nation, and instruct and inform its mind. For there is also the spirit. And of
the three, the greatest is the spirit.

Without the body and the mind, as all men know, the Nation could not live.

But if the spirit of America were killed, even though the Nation's body and mind, constricted
in an alien world, lived on, the America we know would have perished.

That spirit--that faith--speaks to us in our daily lives in ways often unnoticed, because they
seem so obvious. It speaks to us here in the Capital of the Nation. It speaks to us through
the processes of governing in the sovereignties of 48 States. It speaks to us in our counties,
in our cities, in our towns, and in our villages. It speaks to us from the other nations of
the hemisphere, and from those across the seas--the enslaved, as well as the free. Sometimes
we fail to hear or heed these voices of freedom because to us the privilege of our freedom
is such an old, old story.

If we lose that sacred fire--if we let it be smothered with doubt and fear--then we shall reject
the destiny which Washington strove so valiantly and so triumphantly to establish. The preservation
of the spirit and faith of the Nation does, and will, furnish the highest justification for
every sacrifice that we may make in the cause of national defense.

In the face of great perils never before encountered, our strong purpose is to protect and
to perpetuate the integrity of democracy.

For this we muster the spirit of America, and the faith of America.

We do not retreat. We are not content to stand still. As Americans, we go forward, in the service
of our country, by the will of God.

*****

Franklin D. Roosevelt Fourth Inaugural Address Saturday, January 20, 1945

MR. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, my friends, you will understand and, I believe, agree
with my wish that the form of this inauguration be simple and its words brief.

We Americans of today, together with our allies, are passing through a period of supreme test.
It is a test of our courage--of our resolve--of our wisdom--our essential democracy.

If we meet that test--successfully and honorably--we shall perform a service of historic importance
which men and women and children will honor throughout all time.

As I stand here today, having taken the solemn oath of office in the presence of my fellow
countrymen--in the presence of our God--I know that it is America's purpose that we shall not fail.

In the days and in the years that are to come we shall work for a just and honorable peace,
a durable peace, as today we work and fight for total victory in war.

We can and we will achieve such a peace.

We shall strive for perfection. We shall not achieve it immediately--but we still shall strive.
We may make mistakes--but they must never be mistakes which result from faintness of heart
or abandonment of moral principle.

I remember that my old schoolmaster, Dr. Peabody, said, in days that seemed to us then to be
secure and untroubled: "Things in life will not always run smoothly. Sometimes we will be rising
toward the heights--then all will seem to reverse itself and start downward. The great fact
to remember is that the trend of civilization itself is forever upward; that a line drawn through
the middle of the peaks and the valleys of the centuries always has an upward trend."

Our Constitution of 1787 was not a perfect instrument; it is not perfect yet. But it provided
a firm base upon which all manner of men, of all races and colors and creeds, could build our
solid structure of democracy.

And so today, in this year of war, 1945, we have learned lessons--at a fearful cost--and we
shall profit by them.

We have learned that we cannot live alone, at peace; that our own well-being is dependent on
the well-being of other nations far away. We have learned that we must live as men, not as
ostriches, nor as dogs in the manger.

We have learned to be citizens of the world, members of the human community.

We have learned the simple truth, as Emerson said, that "The only way to have a friend is to
be one."

We can gain no lasting peace if we approach it with suspicion and mistrust or with fear. We
can gain it only if we proceed with the understanding, the confidence, and the courage which
flow from conviction.

The Almighty God has blessed our land in many ways. He has given our people stout hearts and
strong arms with which to strike mighty blows for freedom and truth. He has given to our country
a faith which has become the hope of all peoples in an anguished world.

So we pray to Him now for the vision to see our way clearly--to see the way that leads to a
better life for ourselves and for all our fellow men--to the achievement of His will to peace
on earth.

*****

Harry S. Truman Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20, 1949

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, and fellow citizens, I accept with humility the honor
which the American people have conferred upon me. I accept it with a deep resolve to do all
that I can for the welfare of this Nation and for the peace of the world.

In performing the duties of my office, I need the help and prayers of every one of you. I ask
for your encouragement and your support. The tasks we face are difficult, and we can accomplish
them only if we work together.

Each period of our national history has had its special challenges. Those that confront us
now are as momentous as any in the past. Today marks the beginning not only of a new administration,
but of a period that will be eventful, perhaps decisive, for us and for the world.

It may be our lot to experience, and in large measure to bring about, a major turning point
in the long history of the human race. The first half of this century has been marked by unprecedented
and brutal attacks on the rights of man, and by the two most frightful wars in history. The
supreme need of our time is for men to learn to live together in peace and harmony.

The peoples of the earth face the future with grave uncertainty, composed almost equally of
great hopes and great fears. In this time of doubt, they look to the United States as never
before for good will, strength, and wise leadership.

It is fitting, therefore, that we take this occasion to proclaim to the world the essential
principles of the faith by which we live, and to declare our aims to all peoples.

The American people stand firm in the faith which has inspired this Nation from the beginning.
We believe that all men have a right to equal justice under law and equal opportunity to share
in the common good. We believe that all men have the right to freedom of thought and expression.
We believe that all men are created equal because they are created in the image of God.

From this faith we will not be moved.

The American people desire, and are determined to work for, a world in which all nations and
all peoples are free to govern themselves as they see fit, and to achieve a decent and satisfying
life. Above all else, our people desire, and are determined to work for, peace on earth--a
just and lasting peace--based on genuine agreement freely arrived at by equals.

In the pursuit of these aims, the United States and other like-minded nations find themselves
directly opposed by a regime with contrary aims and a totally different concept of life.

That regime adheres to a false philosophy which purports to offer freedom, security, and greater
opportunity to mankind. Misled by this philosophy, many peoples have sacrificed their liberties
only to learn to their sorrow that deceit and mockery, poverty and tyranny, are their reward.

That false philosophy is communism.

Communism is based on the belief that man is so weak and inadequate that he is unable to govern
himself, and therefore requires the rule of strong masters.

Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity, as well
as the inalienable right, to govern himself with reason and justice.

Communism subjects the individual to arrest without lawful cause, punishment without trial,
and forced labor as the chattel of the state. It decrees what information he shall receive,
what art he shall produce, what leaders he shall follow, and what thoughts he shall think.

Democracy maintains that government is established for the benefit of the individual, and is
charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of the individual and his freedom
in the exercise of his abilities.

Communism maintains that social wrongs can be corrected only by violence.

Democracy has proved that social justice can be achieved through peaceful change.

Communism holds that the world is so deeply divided into opposing classes that war is inevitable.

Democracy holds that free nations can settle differences justly and maintain lasting peace.

These differences between communism and democracy do not concern the United States alone. People
everywhere are coming to realize that what is involved is material well-being, human dignity,
and the right to believe in and worship God.

I state these differences, not to draw issues of belief as such, but because the actions resulting
from the Communist philosophy are a threat to the efforts of free nations to bring about world
recovery and lasting peace.

Since the end of hostilities, the United States has invested its substance and its energy in
a great constructive effort to restore peace, stability, and freedom to the world.

We have sought no territory and we have imposed our will on none. We have asked for no privileges
we would not extend to others.

We have constantly and vigorously supported the United Nations and related agencies as a means
of applying democratic principles to international relations. We have consistently advocated
and relied upon peaceful settlement of disputes among nations.

We have made every effort to secure agreement on effective international control of our most
powerful weapon, and we have worked steadily for the limitation and control of all armaments.

We have encouraged, by precept and example, the expansion of world trade on a sound and fair basis.

Almost a year ago, in company with 16 free nations of Europe, we launched the greatest cooperative
economic program in history. The purpose of that unprecedented effort is to invigorate and
strengthen democracy in Europe, so that the free people of that continent can resume their
rightful place in the forefront of civilization and can contribute once more to the security
and welfare of the world.

Our efforts have brought new hope to all mankind. We have beaten back despair and defeatism.
We have saved a number of countries from losing their liberty. Hundreds of millions of people
all over the world now agree with us, that we need not have war--that we can have peace.

The initiative is ours.

We are moving on with other nations to build an even stronger structure of international order
and justice. We shall have as our partners countries which, no longer solely concerned with
the problem of national survival, are now working to improve the standards of living of all
their people. We are ready to undertake new projects to strengthen the free world.

In the coming years, our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four major courses of action.

First, we will continue to give unfaltering support to the United Nations and related agencies,
and we will continue to search for ways to strengthen their authority and increase their effectiveness.
We believe that the United Nations will be strengthened by the new nations which are being
formed in lands now advancing toward self-government under democratic principles.

Second, we will continue our programs for world economic recovery.

This means, first of all, that we must keep our full weight behind the European recovery program.
We are confident of the success of this major venture in world recovery. We believe that our
partners in this effort will achieve the status of self-supporting nations once again.

In addition, we must carry out our plans for reducing the barriers to world trade and increasing
its volume. Economic recovery and peace itself depend on increased world trade.

Third, we will strengthen freedom-loving nations against the dangers of aggression.

We are now working out with a number of countries a joint agreement designed to strengthen
the security of the North Atlantic area. Such an agreement would take the form of a collective
defense arrangement within the terms of the United Nations Charter.

We have already established such a defense pact for the Western Hemisphere by the treaty of
Rio de Janeiro.

The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide unmistakable proof of the joint determination
of the free countries to resist armed attack from any quarter. Each country participating in
these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common defense.

If we can make it sufficiently clear, in advance, that any armed attack affecting our national
security would be met with overwhelming force, the armed attack might never occur.

I hope soon to send to the Senate a treaty respecting the North Atlantic security plan.

In addition, we will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate
with us in the maintenance of peace and security.

Fourth, we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific advances
and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas.

More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery. Their food
is inadequate. They are victims of disease. Their economic life is primitive and stagnant.
Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous areas.

For the first time in history, humanity possesses the knowledge and the skill to relieve the
suffering of these people.

The United States is pre-eminent among nations in the development of industrial and scientific
techniques. The material resources which we can afford to use for the assistance of other peoples
are limited. But our imponderable resources in technical knowledge are constantly growing and
are inexhaustible.

I believe that we should make available to peace-loving peoples the benefits of our store of
technical knowledge in order to help them realize their aspirations for a better life. And,
in cooperation with other nations, we should foster capital investment in areas needing development.

Our aim should be to help the free peoples of the world, through their own efforts, to produce
more food, more clothing, more materials for housing, and more mechanical power to lighten
their burdens.

We invite other countries to pool their technological resources in this undertaking. Their
contributions will be warmly welcomed. This should be a cooperative enterprise in which all
nations work together through the United Nations and its specialized agencies wherever practicable.
It must be a worldwide effort for the achievement of peace, plenty, and freedom.

With the cooperation of business, private capital, agriculture, and labor in this country,
this program can greatly increase the industrial activity in other nations and can raise substantially
their standards of living.

Such new economic developments must be devised and controlled to benefit the peoples of the
areas in which they are established. Guarantees to the investor must be balanced by guarantees
in the interest of the people whose resources and whose labor go into these developments.

The old imperialism--exploitation for foreign profit--has no place in our plans. What we envisage
is a program of development based on the concepts of democratic fair-dealing.

All countries, including our own, will greatly benefit from a constructive program for the
better use of the world's human and natural resources. Experience shows that our commerce with
other countries expands as they progress industrially and economically.

Greater production is the key to prosperity and peace. And the key to greater production is
a wider and more vigorous application of modern scientific and technical knowledge.

Only by helping the least fortunate of its members to help themselves can the human family
achieve the decent, satisfying life that is the right of all people.

Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir the peoples of the world into triumphant
action, not only against their human oppressors, but also against their ancient enemies--hunger,
misery, and despair.

On the basis of these four major courses of action we hope to help create the conditions that
will lead eventually to personal freedom and happiness for all mankind.

If we are to be successful in carrying out these policies, it is clear that we must have continued
prosperity in this country and we must keep ourselves strong.

Slowly but surely we are weaving a world fabric of international security and growing prosperity.

We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear--even by those who live today in
fear under their own governments.

We are aided by all who want relief from the lies of propaganda--who desire truth and sincerity.

We are aided by all who desire self-government and a voice in deciding their own affairs.

We are aided by all who long for economic security--for the security and abundance that men
in free societies can enjoy.

We are aided by all who desire freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom to live
their own lives for useful ends.

Our allies are the millions who hunger and thirst after righteousness.

In due time, as our stability becomes manifest, as more and more nations come to know the benefits
of democracy and to participate in growing abundance, I believe that those countries which
now oppose us will abandon their delusions and join with the free nations of the world in a
just settlement of international differences.

Events have brought our American democracy to new influence and new responsibilities. They
will test our courage, our devotion to duty, and our concept of liberty.

But I say to all men, what we have achieved in liberty, we will surpass in greater liberty.

Steadfast in our faith in the Almighty, we will advance toward a world where man's freedom
is secure.

To that end we will devote our strength, our resources, and our firmness of resolve. With God's
help, the future of mankind will be assured in a world of justice, harmony, and peace.

*****

Dwight D. Eisenhower First Inaugural Address Tuesday, January 20, 1953

MY friends, before I begin the expression of those thoughts that I deem appropriate to this
moment, would you permit me the privilege of uttering a little private prayer of my own. And
I ask that you bow your heads:

Almighty God, as we stand here at this moment my future associates in the executive branch
of government join me in beseeching that Thou will make full and complete our dedication to
the service of the people in this throng, and their fellow citizens everywhere.

Give us, we pray, the power to discern clearly right from wrong, and allow all our words and
actions to be governed thereby, and by the laws of this land. Especially we pray that our concern
shall be for all the people regardless of station, race, or calling.

May cooperation be permitted and be the mutual aim of those who, under the concepts of our
Constitution, hold to differing political faiths; so that all may work for the good of our
beloved country and Thy glory. Amen.

My fellow citizens:

The world and we have passed the midway point of a century of continuing challenge. We sense
with all our faculties that forces of good and evil are massed and armed and opposed as rarely
before in history.

This fact defines the meaning of this day. We are summoned by this honored and historic ceremony
to witness more than the act of one citizen swearing his oath of service, in the presence of
God. We are called as a people to give testimony in the sight of the world to our faith that
the future shall belong to the free.

Since this century's beginning, a time of tempest has seemed to come upon the continents of
the earth. Masses of Asia have awakened to strike off shackles of the past. Great nations of
Europe have fought their bloodiest wars. Thrones have toppled and their vast empires have disappeared.
New nations have been born.

For our own country, it has been a time of recurring trial. We have grown in power and in responsibility.
We have passed through the anxieties of depression and of war to a summit unmatched in man's
history. Seeking to secure peace in the world, we have had to fight through the forests of
the Argonne, to the shores of Iwo Jima, and to the cold mountains of Korea.

In the swift rush of great events, we find ourselves groping to know the full sense and meaning
of these times in which we live. In our quest of understanding, we beseech God's guidance.
We summon all our knowledge of the past and we scan all signs of the future. We bring all our
wit and all our will to meet the question:

How far have we come in man's long pilgrimage from darkness toward light? Are we nearing the
light--a day of freedom and of peace for all mankind? Or are the shadows of another night closing
in upon us?

Great as are the preoccupations absorbing us at home, concerned as we are with matters that
deeply affect our livelihood today and our vision of the future, each of these domestic problems
is dwarfed by, and often even created by, this question that involves all humankind.

This trial comes at a moment when man's power to achieve good or to inflict evil surpasses
the brightest hopes and the sharpest fears of all ages. We can turn rivers in their courses,
level mountains to the plains. Oceans and land and sky are avenues for our colossal commerce.
Disease diminishes and life lengthens.

Yet the promise of this life is imperiled by the very genius that has made it possible. Nations
amass wealth. Labor sweats to create--and turns out devices to level not only mountains but
also cities. Science seems ready to confer upon us, as its final gift, the power to erase human
life from this planet.

At such a time in history, we who are free must proclaim anew our faith. This faith is the
abiding creed of our fathers. It is our faith in the deathless dignity of man, governed by
eternal moral and natural laws.

This faith defines our full view of life. It establishes, beyond debate, those gifts of the
Creator that are man's inalienable rights, and that make all men equal in His sight.

In the light of this equality, we know that the virtues most cherished by free people--love
of truth, pride of work, devotion to country--all are treasures equally precious in the lives
of the most humble and of the most exalted. The men who mine coal and fire furnaces and balance
ledgers and turn lathes and pick cotton and heal the sick and plant corn--all serve as proudly,
and as profitably, for America as the statesmen who draft treaties and the legislators who
enact laws.

This faith rules our whole way of life. It decrees that we, the people, elect leaders not to
rule but to serve. It asserts that we have the right to choice of our own work and to the reward
of our own toil. It inspires the initiative that makes our productivity the wonder of the world.
And it warns that any man who seeks to deny equality among all his brothers betrays the spirit
of the free and invites the mockery of the tyrant.

It is because we, all of us, hold to these principles that the political changes accomplished
this day do not imply turbulence, upheaval or disorder. Rather this change expresses a purpose
of strengthening our dedication and devotion to the precepts of our founding documents, a conscious
renewal of faith in our country and in the watchfulness of a Divine Providence.

The enemies of this faith know no god but force, no devotion but its use. They tutor men in
treason. They feed upon the hunger of others. Whatever defies them, they torture, especially
the truth.

Here, then, is joined no argument between slightly differing philosophies. This conflict strikes
directly at the faith of our fathers and the lives of our sons. No principle or treasure that
we hold, from the spiritual knowledge of our free schools and churches to the creative magic
of free labor and capital, nothing lies safely beyond the reach of this struggle.

Freedom is pitted against slavery; lightness against the dark.

The faith we hold belongs not to us alone but to the free of all the world. This common bond
binds the grower of rice in Burma and the planter of wheat in Iowa, the shepherd in southern
Italy and the mountaineer in the Andes. It confers a common dignity upon the French soldier
who dies in Indo-China, the British soldier killed in Malaya, the American life given in Korea.

We know, beyond this, that we are linked to all free peoples not merely by a noble idea but
by a simple need. No free people can for long cling to any privilege or enjoy any safety in
economic solitude. For all our own material might, even we need markets in the world for the
surpluses of our farms and our factories. Equally, we need for these same farms and factories
vital materials and products of distant lands. This basic law of interdependence, so manifest
in the commerce of peace, applies with thousand-fold intensity in the event of war.

So we are persuaded by necessity and by belief that the strength of all free peoples lies in
unity; their danger, in discord.

To produce this unity, to meet the challenge of our time, destiny has laid upon our country
the responsibility of the free world's leadership.

So it is proper that we assure our friends once again that, in the discharge of this responsibility,
we Americans know and we observe the difference between world leadership and imperialism; between
firmness and truculence; between a thoughtfully calculated goal and spasmodic reaction to the
stimulus of emergencies.

We wish our friends the world over to know this above all: we face the threat--not with dread
and confusion--but with confidence and conviction.

We feel this moral strength because we know that we are not helpless prisoners of history.
We are free men. We shall remain free, never to be proven guilty of the one capital offense
against freedom, a lack of stanch faith.

In pleading our just cause before the bar of history and in pressing our labor for world peace,
we shall be guided by certain fixed principles.

These principles are:

(1) Abhorring war as a chosen way to balk the purposes of those who threaten us, we hold it
to be the first task of statesmanship to develop the strength that will deter the forces of
aggression and promote the conditions of peace. For, as it must be the supreme purpose of all
free men, so it must be the dedication of their leaders, to save humanity from preying upon itself.

In the light of this principle, we stand ready to engage with any and all others in joint effort
to remove the causes of mutual fear and distrust among nations, so as to make possible drastic
reduction of armaments. The sole requisites for undertaking such effort are that--in their
purpose--they be aimed logically and honestly toward secure peace for all; and that--in their
result--they provide methods by which every participating nation will prove good faith in carrying
out its pledge.

(2) Realizing that common sense and common decency alike dictate the futility of appeasement,
we shall never try to placate an aggressor by the false and wicked bargain of trading honor
for security. Americans, indeed all free men, remember that in the final choice a soldier's
pack is not so heavy a burden as a prisoner's chains.

(3) Knowing that only a United States that is strong and immensely productive can help defend
freedom in our world, we view our Nation's strength and security as a trust upon which rests
the hope of free men everywhere. It is the firm duty of each of our free citizens and of every
free citizen everywhere to place the cause of his country before the comfort, the convenience
of himself.

(4) Honoring the identity and the special heritage of each nation in the world, we shall never
use our strength to try to impress upon another people our own cherished political and economic
institutions.

(5) Assessing realistically the needs and capacities of proven friends of freedom, we shall
strive to help them to achieve their own security and well-being. Likewise, we shall count
upon them to assume, within the limits of their resources, their full and just burdens in the
common defense of freedom.

(6) Recognizing economic health as an indispensable basis of military strength and the free
world's peace, we shall strive to foster everywhere, and to practice ourselves, policies that
encourage productivity and profitable trade. For the impoverishment of any single people in
the world means danger to the well-being of all other peoples.

(7) Appreciating that economic need, military security and political wisdom combine to suggest
regional groupings of free peoples, we hope, within the framework of the United Nations, to
help strengthen such special bonds the world over. The nature of these ties must vary with
the different problems of different areas.

In the Western Hemisphere, we enthusiastically join with all our neighbors in the work of perfecting
a community of fraternal trust and common purpose.

In Europe, we ask that enlightened and inspired leaders of the Western nations strive with
renewed vigor to make the unity of their peoples a reality. Only as free Europe unitedly marshals
its strength can it effectively safeguard, even with our help, its spiritual and cultural heritage.

(8) Conceiving the defense of freedom, like freedom itself, to be one and indivisible, we hold
all continents and peoples in equal regard and honor. We reject any insinuation that one race
or another, one people or another, is in any sense inferior or expendable.

(9) Respecting the United Nations as the living sign of all people's hope for peace, we shall
strive to make it not merely an eloquent symbol but an effective force. And in our quest for
an honorable peace, we shall neither compromise, nor tire, nor ever cease.

By these rules of conduct, we hope to be known to all peoples.

By their observance, an earth of peace may become not a vision but a fact.

This hope--this supreme aspiration--must rule the way we live.

We must be ready to dare all for our country. For history does not long entrust the care of
freedom to the weak or the timid. We must acquire proficiency in defense and display stamina
in purpose.

We must be willing, individually and as a Nation, to accept whatever sacrifices may be required
of us. A people that values its privileges above its principles soon loses both.

These basic precepts are not lofty abstractions, far removed from matters of daily living.
They are laws of spiritual strength that generate and define our material strength. Patriotism
means equipped forces and a prepared citizenry. Moral stamina means more energy and more productivity,
on the farm and in the factory. Love of liberty means the guarding of every resource that makes
freedom possible--from the sanctity of our families and the wealth of our soil to the genius
of our scientists.

And so each citizen plays an indispensable role. The productivity of our heads, our hands,
and our hearts is the source of all the strength we can command, for both the enrichment of
our lives and the winning of the peace.

No person, no home, no community can be beyond the reach of this call. We are summoned to act
in wisdom and in conscience, to work with industry, to teach with persuasion, to preach with
conviction, to weigh our every deed with care and with compassion. For this truth must be clear
before us: whatever America hopes to bring to pass in the world must first come to pass in
the heart of America.

The peace we seek, then, is nothing less than the practice and fulfillment of our whole faith
among ourselves and in our dealings with others. This signifies more than the stilling of guns,
easing the sorrow of war. More than escape from death, it is a way of life. More than a haven
for the weary, it is a hope for the brave.

This is the hope that beckons us onward in this century of trial. This is the work that awaits
us all, to be done with bravery, with charity, and with prayer to Almighty God.

*****

Dwight D. Eisenhower Second Inaugural Address Monday, January 21, 1957

THE PRICE OF PEACE

Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Speaker, members of my family and
friends, my countrymen, and the friends of my country, wherever they may be, we meet again,
as upon a like moment four years ago, and again you have witnessed my solemn oath of service
to you.

I, too, am a witness, today testifying in your name to the principles and purposes to which
we, as a people, are pledged.

Before all else, we seek, upon our common labor as a nation, the blessings of Almighty God.
And the hopes in our hearts fashion the deepest prayers of our whole people.

May we pursue the right--without self-righteousness.

May we know unity--without conformity.

May we grow in strength--without pride in self.

May we, in our dealings with all peoples of the earth, ever speak truth and serve justice.

And so shall America--in the sight of all men of good will--prove true to the honorable purposes
that bind and rule us as a people in all this time of trial through which we pass.

We live in a land of plenty, but rarely has this earth known such peril as today.

In our nation work and wealth abound. Our population grows. Commerce crowds our rivers and
rails, our skies, harbors, and highways. Our soil is fertile, our agriculture productive. The
air rings with the song of our industry--rolling mills and blast furnaces, dynamos, dams, and
assembly lines--the chorus of America the bountiful.

This is our home--yet this is not the whole of our world. For our world is where our full destiny
lies--with men, of all people, and all nations, who are or would be free. And for them--and
so for us--this is no time of ease or of rest.

In too much of the earth there is want, discord, danger. New forces and new nations stir and
strive across the earth, with power to bring, by their fate, great good or great evil to the
free world's future. From the deserts of North Africa to the islands of the South Pacific one
third of all mankind has entered upon an historic struggle for a new freedom; freedom from
grinding poverty. Across all continents, nearly a billion people seek, sometimes almost in
desperation, for the skills and knowledge and assistance by which they may satisfy from their
own resources, the material wants common to all mankind.

No nation, however old or great, escapes this tempest of change and turmoil. Some, impoverished
by the recent World War, seek to restore their means of livelihood. In the heart of Europe,
Germany still stands tragically divided. So is the whole continent divided. And so, too, is
all the world.

The divisive force is International Communism and the power that it controls.

The designs of that power, dark in purpose, are clear in practice. It strives to seal forever
the fate of those it has enslaved. It strives to break the ties that unite the free. And it
strives to capture--to exploit for its own greater power--all forces of change in the world,
especially the needs of the hungry and the hopes of the oppressed.

Yet the world of International Communism has itself been shaken by a fierce and mighty force:
the readiness of men who love freedom to pledge their lives to that love. Through the night
of their bondage, the unconquerable will of heroes has struck with the swift, sharp thrust
of lightning. Budapest is no longer merely the name of a city; henceforth it is a new and shining
symbol of man's yearning to be free.

Thus across all the globe there harshly blow the winds of change. And, we--though fortunate
be our lot--know that we can never turn our backs to them.

We look upon this shaken earth, and we declare our firm and fixed purpose--the building of
a peace with justice in a world where moral law prevails.

The building of such a peace is a bold and solemn purpose. To proclaim it is easy. To serve
it will be hard. And to attain it, we must be aware of its full meaning--and ready to pay its
full price.

We know clearly what we seek, and why.

We seek peace, knowing that peace is the climate of freedom. And now, as in no other age, we
seek it because we have been warned, by the power of modern weapons, that peace may be the
only climate possible for human life itself.

Yet this peace we seek cannot be born of fear alone: it must be rooted in the lives of nations.
There must be justice, sensed and shared by all peoples, for, without justice the world can
know only a tense and unstable truce. There must be law, steadily invoked and respected by
all nations, for without law, the world promises only such meager justice as the pity of the
strong upon the weak. But the law of which we speak, comprehending the values of freedom, affirms
the equality of all nations, great and small.

Splendid as can be the blessings of such a peace, high will be its cost: in toil patiently
sustained, in help honorably given, in sacrifice calmly borne.

We are called to meet the price of this peace.

To counter the threat of those who seek to rule by force, we must pay the costs of our own
needed military strength, and help to build the security of others.

We must use our skills and knowledge and, at times, our substance, to help others rise from
misery, however far the scene of suffering may be from our shores. For wherever in the world
a people knows desperate want, there must appear at least the spark of hope, the hope of progress--or
there will surely rise at last the flames of conflict.

We recognize and accept our own deep involvement in the destiny of men everywhere. We are accordingly
pledged to honor, and to strive to fortify, the authority of the United Nations. For in that
body rests the best hope of our age for the assertion of that law by which all nations may
live in dignity.

And, beyond this general resolve, we are called to act a responsible role in the world's great
concerns or conflicts--whether they touch upon the affairs of a vast region, the fate of an
island in the Pacific, or the use of a canal in the Middle East. Only in respecting the hopes
and cultures of others will we practice the equality of all nations. Only as we show willingness
and wisdom in giving counsel--in receiving counsel--and in sharing burdens, will we wisely
perform the work of peace.

For one truth must rule all we think and all we do. No people can live to itself alone. The
unity of all who dwell in freedom is their only sure defense. The economic need of all nations--in
mutual dependence--makes isolation an impossibility; not even America's prosperity could long
survive if other nations did not also prosper. No nation can longer be a fortress, lone and
strong and safe. And any people, seeking such shelter for themselves, can now build only their
own prison.

Our pledge to these principles is constant, because we believe in their rightness.

We do not fear this world of change. America is no stranger to much of its spirit. Everywhere
we see the seeds of the same growth that America itself has known. The American experiment
has, for generations, fired the passion and the courage of millions elsewhere seeking freedom,
equality, and opportunity. And the American story of material progress has helped excite the
longing of all needy peoples for some satisfaction of their human wants. These hopes that we
have helped to inspire, we can help to fulfill.

In this confidence, we speak plainly to all peoples.

We cherish our friendship with all nations that are or would be free. We respect, no less,
their independence. And when, in time of want or peril, they ask our help, they may honorably
receive it; for we no more seek to buy their sovereignty than we would sell our own. Sovereignty
is never bartered among freemen.

We honor the aspirations of those nations which, now captive, long for freedom. We seek neither
their military alliance nor any artificial imitation of our society. And they can know the
warmth of the welcome that awaits them when, as must be, they join again the ranks of freedom.

We honor, no less in this divided world than in a less tormented time, the people of Russia.
We do not dread, rather do we welcome, their progress in education and industry. We wish them
success in their demands for more intellectual freedom, greater security before their own laws,
fuller enjoyment of the rewards of their own toil. For as such things come to pass, the more
certain will be the coming of that day when our peoples may freely meet in friendship.

So we voice our hope and our belief that we can help to heal this divided world. Thus may the
nations cease to live in trembling before the menace of force. Thus may the weight of fear
and the weight of arms be taken from the burdened shoulders of mankind.

This, nothing less, is the labor to which we are called and our strength dedicated.

And so the prayer of our people carries far beyond our own frontiers, to the wide world of
our duty and our destiny.

May the light of freedom, coming to all darkened lands, flame brightly--until at last the darkness
is no more.

May the turbulence of our age yield to a true time of peace, when men and nations shall share
a life that honors the dignity of each, the brotherhood of all.

*****

John F. Kennedy Inaugural Address Friday, January 20, 1961

Vice President Johnson, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, President Eisenhower, Vice President
Nixon, President Truman, reverend clergy, fellow citizens, we observe today not a victory of
party, but a celebration of freedom--symbolizing an end, as well as a beginning--signifying
renewal, as well as change. For I have sworn before you and Almighty God the same solemn oath
our forebears prescribed nearly a century and three quarters ago.

The world is very different now. For man holds in his mortal hands the power to abolish all
forms of human poverty and all forms of human life. And yet the same revolutionary beliefs
for which our forebears fought are still at issue around the globe--the belief that the rights
of man come not from the generosity of the state, but from the hand of God.

We dare not forget today that we are the heirs of that first revolution. Let the word go forth
from this time and place, to friend and foe alike, that the torch has been passed to a new
generation of Americans--born in this century, tempered by war, disciplined by a hard and bitter
peace, proud of our ancient heritage--and unwilling to witness or permit the slow undoing of
those human rights to which this Nation has always been committed, and to which we are committed
today at home and around the world.

This much we pledge--and more.

To those old allies whose cultural and spiritual origins we share, we pledge the loyalty of
faithful friends. United, there is little we cannot do in a host of cooperative ventures. Divided,
there is little we can do--for we dare not meet a powerful challenge at odds and split asunder.

To those new States whom we welcome to the ranks of the free, we pledge our word that one form
of colonial control shall not have passed away merely to be replaced by a far more iron tyranny.
We shall not always expect to find them supporting our view. But we shall always hope to find
them strongly supporting their own freedom--and to remember that, in the past, those who foolishly
sought power by riding the back of the tiger ended up inside.

To those peoples in the huts and villages across the globe struggling to break the bonds of
mass misery, we pledge our best efforts to help them help themselves, for whatever period is
required--not because the Communists may be doing it, not because we seek their votes, but
because it is right. If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the
few who are rich.

To our sister republics south of our border, we offer a special pledge--to convert our good
words into good deeds--in a new alliance for progress--to assist free men and free governments
in casting off the chains of poverty. But this peaceful revolution of hope cannot become the
prey of hostile powers. Let all our neighbors know that we shall join with them to oppose aggression
or subversion anywhere in the Americas. And let every other power know that this Hemisphere
intends to remain the master of its own house.

To that world assembly of sovereign states, the United Nations, our last best hope in an age
where the instruments of war have far outpaced the instruments of peace, we renew our pledge
of support--to prevent it from becoming merely a forum for invective--to strengthen its shield
of the new and the weak--and to enlarge the area in which its writ may run.

Finally, to those nations who would make themselves our adversary, we offer not a pledge but
a request: that both sides begin anew the quest for peace, before the dark powers of destruction
unleashed by science engulf all humanity in planned or accidental self-destruction.

We dare not tempt them with weakness. For only when our arms are sufficient beyond doubt can
we be certain beyond doubt that they will never be employed.

But neither can two great and powerful groups of nations take comfort from our present course--both
sides overburdened by the cost of modern weapons, both rightly alarmed by the steady spread
of the deadly atom, yet both racing to alter that uncertain balance of terror that stays the
hand of mankind's final war.

So let us begin anew--remembering on both sides that civility is not a sign of weakness, and
sincerity is always subject to proof. Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never
fear to negotiate.

Let both sides explore what problems unite us instead of belaboring those problems which divide us.

Let both sides, for the first time, formulate serious and precise proposals for the inspection
and control of arms--and bring the absolute power to destroy other nations under the absolute
control of all nations.

Let both sides seek to invoke the wonders of science instead of its terrors. Together let us
explore the stars, conquer the deserts, eradicate disease, tap the ocean depths, and encourage
the arts and commerce.

Let both sides unite to heed in all corners of the earth the command of Isaiah--to "undo the
heavy burdens...and to let the oppressed go free."

And if a beachhead of cooperation may push back the jungle of suspicion, let both sides join
in creating a new endeavor, not a new balance of power, but a new world of law, where the strong
are just and the weak secure and the peace preserved.

All this will not be finished in the first 100 days. Nor will it be finished in the first 1,000
days, nor in the life of this Administration, nor even perhaps in our lifetime on this planet.
But let us begin.

In your hands, my fellow citizens, more than in mine, will rest the final success or failure
of our course. Since this country was founded, each generation of Americans has been summoned
to give testimony to its national loyalty. The graves of young Americans who answered the call
to service surround the globe.

Now the trumpet summons us again--not as a call to bear arms, though arms we need; not as a
call to battle, though embattled we are--but a call to bear the burden of a long twilight struggle,
year in and year out, "rejoicing in hope, patient in tribulation"--a struggle against the common
enemies of man: tyranny, poverty, disease, and war itself.

Can we forge against these enemies a grand and global alliance, North and South, East and West,
that can assure a more fruitful life for all mankind? Will you join in that historic effort?

In the long history of the world, only a few generations have been granted the role of defending
freedom in its hour of maximum danger. I do not shrink from this responsibility--I welcome
it. I do not believe that any of us would exchange places with any other people or any other
generation. The energy, the faith, the devotion which we bring to this endeavor will light
our country and all who serve it--and the glow from that fire can truly light the world.

And so, my fellow Americans: ask not what your country can do for you--ask what you can do
for your country.

My fellow citizens of the world: ask not what America will do for you, but what together we
can do for the freedom of man.

Finally, whether you are citizens of America or citizens of the world, ask of us the same high
standards of strength and sacrifice which we ask of you. With a good conscience our only sure
reward, with history the final judge of our deeds, let us go forth to lead the land we love,
asking His blessing and His help, but knowing that here on earth God's work must truly be our own.

*****

Lyndon Baines Johnson Inaugural Address Wednesday, January 20, 1965

My fellow countrymen, on this occasion, the oath I have taken before you and before God is
not mine alone, but ours together. We are one nation and one people. Our fate as a nation and
our future as a people rest not upon one citizen, but upon all citizens.

This is the majesty and the meaning of this moment.

For every generation, there is a destiny. For some, history decides. For this generation, the
choice must be our own.

Even now, a rocket moves toward Mars. It reminds us that the world will not be the same for
our children, or even for ourselves in a short span of years. The next man to stand here will
look out on a scene different from our own, because ours is a time of change--rapid and fantastic
change bearing the secrets of nature, multiplying the nations, placing in uncertain hands new
weapons for mastery and destruction, shaking old values, and uprooting old ways.

Our destiny in the midst of change will rest on the unchanged character of our people, and
on their faith.

THE AMERICAN COVENANT

They came here--the exile and the stranger, brave but frightened--to find a place where a man
could be his own man. They made a covenant with this land. Conceived in justice, written in
liberty, bound in union, it was meant one day to inspire the hopes of all mankind; and it binds
us still. If we keep its terms, we shall flourish.

JUSTICE AND CHANGE

First, justice was the promise that all who made the journey would share in the fruits of the land.

In a land of great wealth, families must not live in hopeless poverty. In a land rich in harvest,
children just must not go hungry. In a land of healing miracles, neighbors must not suffer
and die unattended. In a great land of learning and scholars, young people must be taught to
read and write.

For the more than 30 years that I have served this Nation, I have believed that this injustice
to our people, this waste of our resources, was our real enemy. For 30 years or more, with
the resources I have had, I have vigilantly fought against it. I have learned, and I know,
that it will not surrender easily.

But change has given us new weapons. Before this generation of Americans is finished, this
enemy will not only retreat--it will be conquered.

Justice requires us to remember that when any citizen denies his fellow, saying, "His color
is not mine," or "His beliefs are strange and different," in that moment he betrays America,
though his forebears created this Nation.

LIBERTY AND CHANGE

Liberty was the second article of our covenant. It was self-government. It was our Bill of
Rights. But it was more. America would be a place where each man could be proud to be himself:
stretching his talents, rejoicing in his work, important in the life of his neighbors and his
nation.

This has become more difficult in a world where change and growth seem to tower beyond the
control and even the judgment of men. We must work to provide the knowledge and the surroundings
which can enlarge the possibilities of every citizen.

The American covenant called on us to help show the way for the liberation of man. And that
is today our goal. Thus, if as a nation there is much outside our control, as a people no stranger
is outside our hope.

Change has brought new meaning to that old mission. We can never again stand aside, prideful
in isolation. Terrific dangers and troubles that we once called "foreign" now constantly live
among us. If American lives must end, and American treasure be spilled, in countries we barely
know, that is the price that change has demanded of conviction and of our enduring covenant.

Think of our world as it looks from the rocket that is heading toward Mars. It is like a child's
globe, hanging in space, the continents stuck to its side like colored maps. We are all fellow
passengers on a dot of earth. And each of us, in the span of time, has really only a moment
among our companions.

How incredible it is that in this fragile existence, we should hate and destroy one another.
There are possibilities enough for all who will abandon mastery over others to pursue mastery
over nature. There is world enough for all to seek their happiness in their own way.

Our Nation's course is abundantly clear. We aspire to nothing that belongs to others. We seek
no dominion over our fellow man, but man's dominion over tyranny and misery.

But more is required. Men want to be a part of a common enterprise--a cause greater than themselves.
Each of us must find a way to advance the purpose of the Nation, thus finding new purpose for
ourselves. Without this, we shall become a nation of strangers.

UNION AND CHANGE

The third article was union. To those who were small and few against the wilderness, the success
of liberty demanded the strength of union. Two centuries of change have made this true again.

No longer need capitalist and worker, farmer and clerk, city and countryside, struggle to divide
our bounty. By working shoulder to shoulder, together we can increase the bounty of all. We
have discovered that every child who learns, every man who finds work, every sick body that
is made whole--like a candle added to an altar--brightens the hope of all the faithful.

So let us reject any among us who seek to reopen old wounds and to rekindle old hatreds. They
stand in the way of a seeking nation.

Let us now join reason to faith and action to experience, to transform our unity of interest
into a unity of purpose. For the hour and the day and the time are here to achieve progress
without strife, to achieve change without hatred--not without difference of opinion, but without
the deep and abiding divisions which scar the union for generations.

THE AMERICAN BELIEF

Under this covenant of justice, liberty, and union we have become a nation--prosperous, great,
and mighty. And we have kept our freedom. But we have no promise from God that our greatness
will endure. We have been allowed by Him to seek greatness with the sweat of our hands and
the strength of our spirit.

I do not believe that the Great Society is the ordered, changeless, and sterile battalion of
the ants. It is the excitement of becoming--always becoming, trying, probing, falling, resting,
and trying again--but always trying and always gaining.

In each generation, with toil and tears, we have had to earn our heritage again.

If we fail now, we shall have forgotten in abundance what we learned in hardship: that democracy
rests on faith, that freedom asks more than it gives, and that the judgment of God is harshest
on those who are most favored.

If we succeed, it will not be because of what we have, but it will be because of what we are;
not because of what we own, but, rather because of what we believe.

For we are a nation of believers. Underneath the clamor of building and the rush of our day's
pursuits, we are believers in justice and liberty and union, and in our own Union. We believe
that every man must someday be free. And we believe in ourselves.

Our enemies have always made the same mistake. In my lifetime--in depression and in war--they
have awaited our defeat. Each time, from the secret places of the American heart, came forth
the faith they could not see or that they could not even imagine. It brought us victory. And
it will again.

For this is what America is all about. It is the uncrossed desert and the unclimbed ridge.
It is the star that is not reached and the harvest sleeping in the unplowed ground. Is our
world gone? We say "Farewell." Is a new world coming? We welcome it--and we will bend it to
the hopes of man.

To these trusted public servants and to my family and those close friends of mine who have
followed me down a long, winding road, and to all the people of this Union and the world, I
will repeat today what I said on that sorrowful day in November 1963: "I will lead and I will
do the best I can."

But you must look within your own hearts to the old promises and to the old dream. They will
lead you best of all.

For myself, I ask only, in the words of an ancient leader: "Give me now wisdom and knowledge,
that I may go out and come in before this people: for who can judge this thy people, that is
so great?"

*****

Richard Milhous Nixon First Inaugural Address Monday, January 20, 1969

Senator Dirksen, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. Vice President, President Johnson, Vice President Humphrey,
my fellow Americans--and my fellow citizens of the world community:

I ask you to share with me today the majesty of this moment. In the orderly transfer of power,
we celebrate the unity that keeps us free.

Each moment in history is a fleeting time, precious and unique. But some stand out as moments
of beginning, in which courses are set that shape decades or centuries.

This can be such a moment.

Forces now are converging that make possible, for the first time, the hope that many of man's
deepest aspirations can at last be realized. The spiraling pace of change allows us to contemplate,
within our own lifetime, advances that once would have taken centuries.

In throwing wide the horizons of space, we have discovered new horizons on earth.

For the first time, because the people of the world want peace, and the leaders of the world
are afraid of war, the times are on the side of peace.

Eight years from now America will celebrate its 200th anniversary as a nation. Within the lifetime
of most people now living, mankind will celebrate that great new year which comes only once
in a thousand years--the beginning of the third millennium.

What kind of nation we will be, what kind of world we will live in, whether we shape the future
in the image of our hopes, is ours to determine by our actions and our choices.

The greatest honor history can bestow is the title of peacemaker. This honor now beckons America--the
chance to help lead the world at last out of the valley of turmoil, and onto that high ground
of peace that man has dreamed of since the dawn of civilization.

If we succeed, generations to come will say of us now living that we mastered our moment, that
we helped make the world safe for mankind.

This is our summons to greatness.

I believe the American people are ready to answer this call.

The second third of this century has been a time of proud achievement. We have made enormous
strides in science and industry and agriculture. We have shared our wealth more broadly than
ever. We have learned at last to manage a modern economy to assure its continued growth.

We have given freedom new reach, and we have begun to make its promise real for black as well
as for white.

We see the hope of tomorrow in the youth of today. I know America's youth. I believe in them.
We can be proud that they are better educated, more committed, more passionately driven by
conscience than any generation in our history.

No people has ever been so close to the achievement of a just and abundant society, or so possessed
of the will to achieve it. Because our strengths are so great, we can afford to appraise our
weaknesses with candor and to approach them with hope.

Standing in this same place a third of a century ago, Franklin Delano Roosevelt addressed a
Nation ravaged by depression and gripped in fear. He could say in surveying the Nation's troubles:
"They concern, thank God, only material things."

Our crisis today is the reverse.

We have found ourselves rich in goods, but ragged in spirit; reaching with magnificent precision
for the moon, but falling into raucous discord on earth.

We are caught in war, wanting peace. We are torn by division, wanting unity. We see around
us empty lives, wanting fulfillment. We see tasks that need doing, waiting for hands to do them.

To a crisis of the spirit, we need an answer of the spirit.

To find that answer, we need only look within ourselves.

When we listen to "the better angels of our nature," we find that they celebrate the simple
things, the basic things--such as goodness, decency, love, kindness.

Greatness comes in simple trappings.

The simple things are the ones most needed today if we are to surmount what divides us, and
cement what unites us.

To lower our voices would be a simple thing.

In these difficult years, America has suffered from a fever of words; from inflated rhetoric
that promises more than it can deliver; from angry rhetoric that fans discontents into hatreds;
from bombastic rhetoric that postures instead of persuading.

We cannot learn from one another until we stop shouting at one another--until we speak quietly
enough so that our words can be heard as well as our voices.

For its part, government will listen. We will strive to listen in new ways--to the voices of
quiet anguish, the voices that speak without words, the voices of the heart--to the injured
voices, the anxious voices, the voices that have despaired of being heard.

Those who have been left out, we will try to bring in.

Those left behind, we will help to catch up.

For all of our people, we will set as our goal the decent order that makes progress possible
and our lives secure.

As we reach toward our hopes, our task is to build on what has gone before--not turning away
from the old, but turning toward the new.

In this past third of a century, government has passed more laws, spent more money, initiated
more programs, than in all our previous history.

In pursuing our goals of full employment, better housing, excellence in education; in rebuilding
our cities and improving our rural areas; in protecting our environment and enhancing the quality
of life--in all these and more, we will and must press urgently forward.

We shall plan now for the day when our wealth can be transferred from the destruction of war
abroad to the urgent needs of our people at home.

The American dream does not come to those who fall asleep.

But we are approaching the limits of what government alone can do.

Our greatest need now is to reach beyond government, and to enlist the legions of the concerned
and the committed.

What has to be done, has to be done by government and people together or it will not be done
at all. The lesson of past agony is that without the people we can do nothing; with the people
we can do everything.

To match the magnitude of our tasks, we need the energies of our people--enlisted not only
in grand enterprises, but more importantly in those small, splendid efforts that make headlines
in the neighborhood newspaper instead of the national journal.

With these, we can build a great cathedral of the spirit--each of us raising it one stone at
a time, as he reaches out to his neighbor, helping, caring, doing.

I do not offer a life of uninspiring ease. I do not call for a life of grim sacrifice. I ask
you to join in a high adventure--one as rich as humanity itself, and as exciting as the times
we live in.

The essence of freedom is that each of us shares in the shaping of his own destiny.

Until he has been part of a cause larger than himself, no man is truly whole.

The way to fulfillment is in the use of our talents; we achieve nobility in the spirit that
inspires that use.

As we measure what can be done, we shall promise only what we know we can produce, but as we
chart our goals we shall be lifted by our dreams.

No man can be fully free while his neighbor is not. To go forward at all is to go forward together.

This means black and white together, as one nation, not two. The laws have caught up with our
conscience. What remains is to give life to what is in the law: to ensure at last that as all
are born equal in dignity before God, all are born equal in dignity before man.

As we learn to go forward together at home, let us also seek to go forward together with all
mankind.

Let us take as our goal: where peace is unknown, make it welcome; where peace is fragile, make
it strong; where peace is temporary, make it permanent.

After a period of confrontation, we are entering an era of negotiation.

Let all nations know that during this administration our lines of communication will be open.

We seek an open world--open to ideas, open to the exchange of goods and people--a world in
which no people, great or small, will live in angry isolation.

We cannot expect to make everyone our friend, but we can try to make no one our enemy.

Those who would be our adversaries, we invite to a peaceful competition--not in conquering
territory or extending dominion, but in enriching the life of man.

As we explore the reaches of space, let us go to the new worlds together--not as new worlds
to be conquered, but as a new adventure to be shared.

With those who are willing to join, let us cooperate to reduce the burden of arms, to strengthen
the structure of peace, to lift up the poor and the hungry.

But to all those who would be tempted by weakness, let us leave no doubt that we will be as
strong as we need to be for as long as we need to be.

Over the past twenty years, since I first came to this Capital as a freshman Congressman, I
have visited most of the nations of the world.

I have come to know the leaders of the world, and the great forces, the hatreds, the fears
that divide the world.

I know that peace does not come through wishing for it--that there is no substitute for days
and even years of patient and prolonged diplomacy.

I also know the people of the world.

I have seen the hunger of a homeless child, the pain of a man wounded in battle, the grief
of a mother who has lost her son. I know these have no ideology, no race.

I know America. I know the heart of America is good.

I speak from my own heart, and the heart of my country, the deep concern we have for those
who suffer, and those who sorrow.

I have taken an oath today in the presence of God and my countrymen to uphold and defend the
Constitution of the United States. To that oath I now add this sacred commitment: I shall consecrate
my office, my energies, and all the wisdom I can summon, to the cause of peace among nations.

Let this message be heard by strong and weak alike:

The peace we seek to win is not victory over any other people, but the peace that comes "with
healing in its wings"; with compassion for those who have suffered; with understanding for
those who have opposed us; with the opportunity for all the peoples of this earth to choose
their own destiny.

Only a few short weeks ago, we shared the glory of man's first sight of the world as God sees
it, as a single sphere reflecting light in the darkness.

As the Apollo astronauts flew over the moon's gray surface on Christmas Eve, they spoke to
us of the beauty of earth--and in that voice so clear across the lunar distance, we heard them
invoke God's blessing on its goodness.

In that moment, their view from the moon moved poet Archibald MacLeish to write:

"To see the earth as it truly is, small and blue and beautiful in that eternal silence where
it floats, is to see ourselves as riders on the earth together, brothers on that bright loveliness
in the eternal cold--brothers who know now they are truly brothers."

In that moment of surpassing technological triumph, men turned their thoughts toward home and
humanity--seeing in that far perspective that man's destiny on earth is not divisible; telling
us that however far we reach into the cosmos, our destiny lies not in the stars but on Earth
itself, in our own hands, in our own hearts.

We have endured a long night of the American spirit. But as our eyes catch the dimness of the
first rays of dawn, let us not curse the remaining dark. Let us gather the light.

Our destiny offers, not the cup of despair, but the chalice of opportunity. So let us seize
it, not in fear, but in gladness--and, "riders on the earth together," let us go forward, firm
in our faith, steadfast in our purpose, cautious of the dangers; but sustained by our confidence
in the will of God and the promise of man.

*****

Richard Milhous Nixon Second Inaugural Address Saturday, January 20, 1973

Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Mr. Chief Justice, Senator Cook, Mrs. Eisenhower, and my fellow
citizens of this great and good country we share together:

When we met here four years ago, America was bleak in spirit, depressed by the prospect of
seemingly endless war abroad and of destructive conflict at home.

As we meet here today, we stand on the threshold of a new era of peace in the world.

The central question before us is: How shall we use that peace? Let us resolve that this era
we are about to enter will not be what other postwar periods have so often been: a time of
retreat and isolation that leads to stagnation at home and invites new danger abroad.

Let us resolve that this will be what it can become: a time of great responsibilities greatly
borne, in which we renew the spirit and the promise of America as we enter our third century
as a nation.

This past year saw far-reaching results from our new policies for peace. By continuing to revitalize
our traditional friendships, and by our missions to Peking and to Moscow, we were able to establish
the base for a new and more durable pattern of relationships among the nations of the world.
Because of America's bold initiatives, 1972 will be long remembered as the year of the greatest
progress since the end of World War II toward a lasting peace in the world.

The peace we seek in the world is not the flimsy peace which is merely an interlude between
wars, but a peace which can endure for generations to come.

It is important that we understand both the necessity and the limitations of America's role
in maintaining that peace.

Unless we in America work to preserve the peace, there will be no peace.

Unless we in America work to preserve freedom, there will be no freedom.

But let us clearly understand the new nature of America's role, as a result of the new policies
we have adopted over these past four years.

We shall respect our treaty commitments.

We shall support vigorously the principle that no country has the right to impose its will
or rule on another by force.

We shall continue, in this era of negotiation, to work for the limitation of nuclear arms,
and to reduce the danger of confrontation between the great powers.

We shall do our share in defending peace and freedom in the world. But we shall expect others
to do their share.

The time has passed when America will make every other nation's conflict our own, or make every
other nation's future our responsibility, or presume to tell the people of other nations how
to manage their own affairs.

Just as we respect the right of each nation to determine its own future, we also recognize
the responsibility of each nation to secure its own future.

Just as America's role is indispensable in preserving the world's peace, so is each nation's
role indispensable in preserving its own peace.

Together with the rest of the world, let us resolve to move forward from the beginnings we
have made. Let us continue to bring down the walls of hostility which have divided the world
for too long, and to build in their place bridges of understanding--so that despite profound
differences between systems of government, the people of the world can be friends.

Let us build a structure of peace in the world in which the weak are as safe as the strong--in
which each respects the right of the other to live by a different system--in which those who
would influence others will do so by the strength of their ideas, and not by the force of their
arms.

Let us accept that high responsibility not as a burden, but gladly--gladly because the chance
to build such a peace is the noblest endeavor in which a nation can engage; gladly, also, because
only if we act greatly in meeting our responsibilities abroad will we remain a great Nation,
and only if we remain a great Nation will we act greatly in meeting our challenges at home.

We have the chance today to do more than ever before in our history to make life better in
America--to ensure better education, better health, better housing, better transportation,
a cleaner environment--to restore respect for law, to make our communities more livable--and
to insure the God-given right of every American to full and equal opportunity.

Because the range of our needs is so great--because the reach of our opportunities is so great--let
us be bold in our determination to meet those needs in new ways.

Just as building a structure of peace abroad has required turning away from old policies that
failed, so building a new era of progress at home requires turning away from old policies that
have failed.

Abroad, the shift from old policies to new has not been a retreat from our responsibilities,
but a better way to peace.

And at home, the shift from old policies to new will not be a retreat from our responsibilities,
but a better way to progress.

Abroad and at home, the key to those new responsibilities lies in the placing and the division
of responsibility. We have lived too long with the consequences of attempting to gather all
power and responsibility in Washington.

Abroad and at home, the time has come to turn away from the condescending policies of paternalism--of
"Washington knows best."

A person can be expected to act responsibly only if he has responsibility. This is human nature.
So let us encourage individuals at home and nations abroad to do more for themselves, to decide
more for themselves. Let us locate responsibility in more places. Let us measure what we will
do for others by what they will do for themselves.

That is why today I offer no promise of a purely governmental solution for every problem. We
have lived too long with that false promise. In trusting too much in government, we have asked
of it more than it can deliver. This leads only to inflated expectations, to reduced individual
effort, and to a disappointment and frustration that erode confidence both in what government
can do and in what people can do.

Government must learn to take less from people so that people can do more for themselves.

Let us remember that America was built not by government, but by people--not by welfare, but
by work--not by shirking responsibility, but by seeking responsibility.

In our own lives, let each of us ask--not just what will government do for me, but what can
I do for myself?

In the challenges we face together, let each of us ask--not just how can government help, but
how can I help?

Your National Government has a great and vital role to play. And I pledge to you that where
this Government should act, we will act boldly and we will lead boldly. But just as important
is the role that each and every one of us must play, as an individual and as a member of his
own community.

From this day forward, let each of us make a solemn commitment in his own heart: to bear his
responsibility, to do his part, to live his ideals--so that together, we can see the dawn of
a new age of progress for America, and together, as we celebrate our 200th anniversary as a
nation, we can do so proud in the fulfillment of our promise to ourselves and to the world.

As America's longest and most difficult war comes to an end, let us again learn to debate our
differences with civility and decency. And let each of us reach out for that one precious quality
government cannot provide--a new level of respect for the rights and feelings of one another,
a new level of respect for the individual human dignity which is the cherished birthright of
every American.

Above all else, the time has come for us to renew our faith in ourselves and in America.

In recent years, that faith has been challenged.

Our children have been taught to be ashamed of their country, ashamed of their parents, ashamed
of America's record at home and of its role in the world.

At every turn, we have been beset by those who find everything wrong with America and little
that is right. But I am confident that this will not be the judgment of history on these remarkable
times in which we are privileged to live.

America's record in this century has been unparalleled in the world's history for its responsibility,
for its generosity, for its creativity and for its progress.

Let us be proud that our system has produced and provided more freedom and more abundance,
more widely shared, than any other system in the history of the world.

Let us be proud that in each of the four wars in which we have been engaged in this century,
including the one we are now bringing to an end, we have fought not for our selfish advantage,
but to help others resist aggression.

Let us be proud that by our bold, new initiatives, and by our steadfastness for peace with
honor, we have made a break-through toward creating in the world what the world has not known
before--a structure of peace that can last, not merely for our time, but for generations to come.

We are embarking here today on an era that presents challenges great as those any nation, or
any generation, has ever faced.

We shall answer to God, to history, and to our conscience for the way in which we use these years.

As I stand in this place, so hallowed by history, I think of others who have stood here before
me. I think of the dreams they had for America, and I think of how each recognized that he
needed help far beyond himself in order to make those dreams come true.

Today, I ask your prayers that in the years ahead I may have God's help in making decisions
that are right for America, and I pray for your help so that together we may be worthy of our
challenge.

Let us pledge together to make these next four years the best four years in America's history,
so that on its 200th birthday America will be as young and as vital as when it began, and as
bright a beacon of hope for all the world.

Let us go forward from here confident in hope, strong in our faith in one another, sustained
by our faith in God who created us, and striving always to serve His purpose.

*****

Jimmy Carter Inaugural Address Thursday, January 20, 1977

FOR myself and for our Nation, I want to thank my predecessor for all he has done to heal our land.

In this outward and physical ceremony we attest once again to the inner and spiritual strength
of our Nation. As my high school teacher, Miss Julia Coleman, used to say: "We must adjust
to changing times and still hold to unchanging principles." A President may sense and proclaim
that new spirit, but only a people can provide it.

Two centuries ago our Nation's birth was a milestone in the long quest for freedom, but the
bold and brilliant dream which excited the founders of this Nation still awaits its consummation.
I have no new dream to set forth today, but rather urge a fresh faith in the old dream.

Ours was the first society openly to define itself in terms of both spirituality and of human
liberty. It is that unique self-definition which has given us an exceptional appeal, but it
also imposes on us a special obligation, to take on those moral duties which, when assumed,
seem invariably to be in our own best interests.

You have given me a great responsibility--to stay close to you, to be worthy of you, and to
exemplify what you are. Let us create together a new national spirit of unity and trust. Your
strength can compensate for my weakness, and your wisdom can help to minimize my mistakes.

Let us learn together and laugh together and work together and pray together, confident that
in the end we will triumph together in the right.

The American dream endures. We must once again have full faith in our country--and in one another.
I believe America can be better. We can be even stronger than before.

Let our recent mistakes bring a resurgent commitment to the basic principles of our Nation,
for we know that if we despise our own government we have no future. We recall in special times
when we have stood briefly, but magnificently, united. In those times no prize was beyond our
grasp.

But we cannot dwell upon remembered glory. We cannot afford to drift. We reject the prospect
of failure or mediocrity or an inferior quality of life for any person. Our Government must
at the same time be both competent and compassionate.

We have already found a high degree of personal liberty, and we are now struggling to enhance
equality of opportunity. Our commitment to human rights must be absolute, our laws fair, our
natural beauty preserved; the powerful must not persecute the weak, and human dignity must
be enhanced.

We have learned that "more" is not necessarily "better," that even our great Nation has its
recognized limits, and that we can neither answer all questions nor solve all problems. We
cannot afford to do everything, nor can we afford to lack boldness as we meet the future. So,
together, in a spirit of individual sacrifice for the common good, we must simply do our best.

Our Nation can be strong abroad only if it is strong at home. And we know that the best way
to enhance freedom in other lands is to demonstrate here that our democratic system is worthy
of emulation.

To be true to ourselves, we must be true to others. We will not behave in foreign places so
as to violate our rules and standards here at home, for we know that the trust which our Nation
earns is essential to our strength.

The world itself is now dominated by a new spirit. Peoples more numerous and more politically
aware are craving and now demanding their place in the sun--not just for the benefit of their
own physical condition, but for basic human rights.

The passion for freedom is on the rise. Tapping this new spirit, there can be no nobler nor
more ambitious task for America to undertake on this day of a new beginning than to help shape
a just and peaceful world that is truly humane.

We are a strong nation, and we will maintain strength so sufficient that it need not be proven
in combat--a quiet strength based not merely on the size of an arsenal, but on the nobility
of ideas.

We will be ever vigilant and never vulnerable, and we will fight our wars against poverty,
ignorance, and injustice--for those are the enemies against which our forces can be honorably
marshaled.

We are a purely idealistic Nation, but let no one confuse our idealism with weakness.

Because we are free we can never be indifferent to the fate of freedom elsewhere. Our moral
sense dictates a clearcut preference for these societies which share with us an abiding respect
for individual human rights. We do not seek to intimidate, but it is clear that a world which
others can dominate with impunity would be inhospitable to decency and a threat to the well-being
of all people.

The world is still engaged in a massive armaments race designed to ensure continuing equivalent
strength among potential adversaries. We pledge perseverance and wisdom in our efforts to limit
the world's armaments to those necessary for each nation's own domestic safety. And we will
move this year a step toward ultimate goal--the elimination of all nuclear weapons from this
Earth. We urge all other people to join us, for success can mean life instead of death.

Within us, the people of the United States, there is evident a serious and purposeful rekindling
of confidence. And I join in the hope that when my time as your President has ended, people
might say this about our Nation:

--that we had remembered the words of Micah and renewed our search for humility, mercy, and
justice;

--that we had torn down the barriers that separated those of different race and region and
religion, and where there had been mistrust, built unity, with a respect for diversity;

--that we had found productive work for those able to perform it;

--that we had strengthened the American family, which is the basis of our society;

--that we had ensured respect for the law, and equal treatment under the law, for the weak
and the powerful, for the rich and the poor;

--and that we had enabled our people to be proud of their own Government once again.

I would hope that the nations of the world might say that we had built a lasting peace, built
not on weapons of war but on international policies which reflect our own most precious values.

These are not just my goals, and they will not be my accomplishments, but the affirmation of
our Nation's continuing moral strength and our belief in an undiminished, ever-expanding American
dream.

*****

Ronald Reagan First Inaugural Address Tuesday, January 20, 1981

Senator Hatfield, Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. President, Vice President Bush, Vice President Mondale,
Senator Baker, Speaker O'Neill, Reverend Moomaw, and my fellow citizens: To a few of us here
today, this is a solemn and most momentous occasion; and yet, in the history of our Nation,
it is a commonplace occurrence. The orderly transfer of authority as called for in the Constitution
routinely takes place as it has for almost two centuries and few of us stop to think how unique
we really are. In the eyes of many in the world, this every-4-year ceremony we accept as normal
is nothing less than a miracle.

Mr. President, I want our fellow citizens to know how much you did to carry on this tradition.
By your gracious cooperation in the transition process, you have shown a watching world that
we are a united people pledged to maintaining a political system which guarantees individual
liberty to a greater degree than any other, and I thank you and your people for all your help
in maintaining the continuity which is the bulwark of our Republic.

The business of our nation goes forward. These United States are confronted with an economic
affliction of great proportions. We suffer from the longest and one of the worst sustained
inflations in our national history. It distorts our economic decisions, penalizes thrift, and
crushes the struggling young and the fixed-income elderly alike. It threatens to shatter the
lives of millions of our people.

Idle industries have cast workers into unemployment, causing human misery and personal indignity.
Those who do work are denied a fair return for their labor by a tax system which penalizes
successful achievement and keeps us from maintaining full productivity.

But great as our tax burden is, it has not kept pace with public spending. For decades, we
have piled deficit upon deficit, mortgaging our future and our children's future for the temporary
convenience of the present. To continue this long trend is to guarantee tremendous social,
cultural, political, and economic upheavals.

You and I, as individuals, can, by borrowing, live beyond our means, but for only a limited
period of time. Why, then, should we think that collectively, as a nation, we are not bound
by that same limitation?

We must act today in order to preserve tomorrow. And let there be no misunderstanding--we are
going to begin to act, beginning today.

In this present crisis, government is not the solution to our problem.

From time to time, we have been tempted to believe that society has become too complex to be
managed by self-rule, that government by an elite group is superior to government for, by,
and of the people. But if no one among us is capable of governing himself, then who among us
has the capacity to govern someone else? All of us together, in and out of government, must
bear the burden. The solutions we seek must be equitable, with no one group singled out to
pay a higher price.

We hear much of special interest groups. Our concern must be for a special interest group that
has been too long neglected. It knows no sectional boundaries or ethnic and racial divisions,
and it crosses political party lines. It is made up of men and women who raise our food, patrol
our streets, man our mines and our factories, teach our children, keep our homes, and heal
us when we are sick--professionals, industrialists, shopkeepers, clerks, cabbies, and truckdrivers.
They are, in short, "We the people," this breed called Americans.

Well, this administration's objective will be a healthy, vigorous, growing economy that provides
equal opportunity for all Americans, with no barriers born of bigotry or discrimination. Putting
America back to work means putting all Americans back to work. Ending inflation means freeing
all Americans from the terror of runaway living costs. All must share in the productive work
of this "new beginning" and all must share in the bounty of a revived economy. With the idealism
and fair play which are the core of our system and our strength, we can have a strong and prosperous
America at peace with itself and the world.

So, as we begin, let us take inventory. We are a nation that has a government--not the other
way around. And this makes us special among the nations of the Earth. Our Government has no
power except that granted it by the people. It is time to check and reverse the growth of government
which shows signs of having grown beyond the consent of the governed. All of us need to be
reminded that the Federal Government did not create the States; the States created the Federal
Government.

Now, so there will be no misunderstanding, it is not my intention to do away with government.
It is, rather, to make it work--work with us, not over us; to stand by our side, not ride on
our back. Government can and must provide opportunity, not smother it; foster productivity,
not stifle it.

If we look to the answer as to why, for so many years, we achieved so much, prospered as no
other people on Earth, it was because here, in this land, we unleashed the energy and individual
genius of man to a greater extent than has ever been done before. Freedom and the dignity of
the individual have been more available and assured here than in any other place on Earth.
The price for this freedom at times has been high, but we have never been unwilling to pay
that price.

It is no coincidence that our present troubles parallel and are proportionate to the intervention
and intrusion in our lives that result from unnecessary and excessive growth of government.
It is time for us to realize that we are too great a nation to limit ourselves to small dreams.
We are not, as some would have us believe, doomed to an inevitable decline. I do not believe
in a fate that will fall on us no matter what we do. I do believe in a fate that will fall
on us if we do nothing. So, with all the creative energy at our command, let us begin an era
of national renewal. Let us renew our determination, our courage, and our strength. And let
us renew our faith and our hope.

We have every right to dream heroic dreams. Those who say that we are in a time when there
are no heroes just don't know where to look. You can see heroes every day going in and out
of factory gates. Others, a handful in number, produce enough food to feed all of us and then
the world beyond. You meet heroes across a counter--and they are on both sides of that counter.
There are entrepreneurs with faith in themselves and faith in an idea who create new jobs,
new wealth and opportunity. They are individuals and families whose taxes support the Government
and whose voluntary gifts support church, charity, culture, art, and education. Their patriotism
is quiet but deep. Their values sustain our national life.

I have used the words "they" and "their" in speaking of these heroes. I could say "you" and
"your" because I am addressing the heroes of whom I speak--you, the citizens of this blessed
land. Your dreams, your hopes, your goals are going to be the dreams, the hopes, and the goals
of this administration, so help me God.

We shall reflect the compassion that is so much a part of your makeup. How can we love our
country and not love our countrymen, and loving them, reach out a hand when they fall, heal
them when they are sick, and provide opportunities to make them self-sufficient so they will
be equal in fact and not just in theory?

Can we solve the problems confronting us? Well, the answer is an unequivocal and emphatic "yes."
To paraphrase Winston Churchill, I did not take the oath I have just taken with the intention
of presiding over the dissolution of the world's strongest economy.

In the days ahead I will propose removing the roadblocks that have slowed our economy and reduced
productivity. Steps will be taken aimed at restoring the balance between the various levels
of government. Progress may be slow--measured in inches and feet, not miles--but we will progress.
Is it time to reawaken this industrial giant, to get government back within its means, and
to lighten our punitive tax burden. And these will be our first priorities, and on these principles,
there will be no compromise.

On the eve of our struggle for independence a man who might have been one of the greatest among
the Founding Fathers, Dr. Joseph Warren, President of the Massachusetts Congress, said to his
fellow Americans, "Our country is in danger, but not to be despaired of.... On you depend the
fortunes of America. You are to decide the important questions upon which rests the happiness
and the liberty of millions yet unborn. Act worthy of yourselves."

Well, I believe we, the Americans of today, are ready to act worthy of ourselves, ready to
do what must be done to ensure happiness and liberty for ourselves, our children and our children's
children.

And as we renew ourselves here in our own land, we will be seen as having greater strength
throughout the world. We will again be the exemplar of freedom and a beacon of hope for those
who do not now have freedom.

To those neighbors and allies who share our freedom, we will strengthen our historic ties and
assure them of our support and firm commitment. We will match loyalty with loyalty. We will
strive for mutually beneficial relations. We will not use our friendship to impose on their
sovereignty, for our own sovereignty is not for sale.

As for the enemies of freedom, those who are potential adversaries, they will be reminded that
peace is the highest aspiration of the American people. We will negotiate for it, sacrifice
for it; we will not surrender for it--now or ever.

Our forbearance should never be misunderstood. Our reluctance for conflict should not be misjudged
as a failure of will. When action is required to preserve our national security, we will act.
We will maintain sufficient strength to prevail if need be, knowing that if we do so we have
the best chance of never having to use that strength.

Above all, we must realize that no arsenal, or no weapon in the arsenals of the world, is so
formidable as the will and moral courage of free men and women. It is a weapon our adversaries
in today's world do not have. It is a weapon that we as Americans do have. Let that be understood
by those who practice terrorism and prey upon their neighbors.

I am told that tens of thousands of prayer meetings are being held on this day, and for that
I am deeply grateful. We are a nation under God, and I believe God intended for us to be free.
It would be fitting and good, I think, if on each Inauguration Day in future years it should
be declared a day of prayer.

This is the first time in history that this ceremony has been held, as you have been told,
on this West Front of the Capitol. Standing here, one faces a magnificent vista, opening up
on this city's special beauty and history. At the end of this open mall are those shrines to
the giants on whose shoulders we stand.

Directly in front of me, the monument to a monumental man: George Washington, Father of our
country. A man of humility who came to greatness reluctantly. He led America out of revolutionary
victory into infant nationhood. Off to one side, the stately memorial to Thomas Jefferson.
The Declaration of Independence flames with his eloquence.

And then beyond the Reflecting Pool the dignified columns of the Lincoln Memorial. Whoever
would understand in his heart the meaning of America will find it in the life of Abraham Lincoln.

Beyond those monuments to heroism is the Potomac River, and on the far shore the sloping hills
of Arlington National Cemetery with its row on row of simple white markers bearing crosses
or Stars of David. They add up to only a tiny fraction of the price that has been paid for
our freedom.

Each one of those markers is a monument to the kinds of hero I spoke of earlier. Their lives
ended in places called Belleau Wood, The Argonne, Omaha Beach, Salerno and halfway around the
world on Guadalcanal, Tarawa, Pork Chop Hill, the Chosin Reservoir, and in a hundred rice paddies
and jungles of a place called Vietnam.

Under one such marker lies a young man--Martin Treptow--who left his job in a small town barber
shop in 1917 to go to France with the famed Rainbow Division. There, on the western front,
he was killed trying to carry a message between battalions under heavy artillery fire.

We are told that on his body was found a diary. On the flyleaf under the heading, "My Pledge,"
he had written these words: "America must win this war. Therefore, I will work, I will save,
I will sacrifice, I will endure, I will fight cheerfully and do my utmost, as if the issue
of the whole struggle depended on me alone."

The crisis we are facing today does not require of us the kind of sacrifice that Martin Treptow
and so many thousands of others were called upon to make. It does require, however, our best
effort, and our willingness to believe in ourselves and to believe in our capacity to perform
great deeds; to believe that together, with God's help, we can and will resolve the problems
which now confront us.

And, after all, why shouldn't we believe that? We are Americans. God bless you, and thank you.

*****

Ronald Reagan Second Inaugural Address Monday, January 21, 1985

Senator Mathias, Chief Justice Burger, Vice President Bush, Speaker O'Neill, Senator Dole,
Reverend Clergy, members of my family and friends, and my fellow citizens:

This day has been made brighter with the presence here of one who, for a time, has been absent--Senator
John Stennis.

God bless you and welcome back.

There is, however, one who is not with us today: Representative Gillis Long of Louisiana left
us last night. I wonder if we could all join in a moment of silent prayer. (Moment of silent
prayer.) Amen.

There are no words adequate to express my thanks for the great honor that you have bestowed
on me. I will do my utmost to be deserving of your trust.

This is, as Senator Mathias told us, the 50th time that we the people have celebrated this
historic occasion. When the first President, George Washington, placed his hand upon the Bible,
he stood less than a single day's journey by horseback from raw, untamed wilderness. There
were 4 million Americans in a union of 13 States. Today we are 60 times as many in a union
of 50 States. We have lighted the world with our inventions, gone to the aid of mankind wherever
in the world there was a cry for help, journeyed to the Moon and safely returned. So much has
changed. And yet we stand together as we did two centuries ago.

When I took this oath four years ago, I did so in a time of economic stress. Voices were raised
saying we had to look to our past for the greatness and glory. But we, the present-day Americans,
are not given to looking backward. In this blessed land, there is always a better tomorrow.

Four years ago, I spoke to you of a new beginning and we have accomplished that. But in another
sense, our new beginning is a continuation of that beginning created two centuries ago when,
for the first time in history, government, the people said, was not our master, it is our servant;
its only power that which we the people allow it to have.

That system has never failed us, but, for a time, we failed the system. We asked things of
government that government was not equipped to give. We yielded authority to the National Government
that properly belonged to States or to local governments or to the people themselves. We allowed
taxes and inflation to rob us of our earnings and savings and watched the great industrial
machine that had made us the most productive people on Earth slow down and the number of unemployed
increase.

By 1980, we knew it was time to renew our faith, to strive with all our strength toward the
ultimate in individual freedom consistent with an orderly society.

We believed then and now there are no limits to growth and human progress when men and women
are free to follow their dreams.

And we were right to believe that. Tax rates have been reduced, inflation cut dramatically,
and more people are employed than ever before in our history.

We are creating a nation once again vibrant, robust, and alive. But there are many mountains
yet to climb. We will not rest until every American enjoys the fullness of freedom, dignity,
and opportunity as our birthright. It is our birthright as citizens of this great Republic,
and we'll meet this challenge.

These will be years when Americans have restored their confidence and tradition of progress;
when our values of faith, family, work, and neighborhood were restated for a modern age; when
our economy was finally freed from government's grip; when we made sincere efforts at meaningful
arms reduction, rebuilding our defenses, our economy, and developing new technologies, and
helped preserve peace in a troubled world; when Americans courageously supported the struggle
for liberty, self-government, and free enterprise throughout the world, and turned the tide
of history away from totalitarian darkness and into the warm sunlight of human freedom.

My fellow citizens, our Nation is poised for greatness. We must do what we know is right and
do it with all our might. Let history say of us, "These were golden years--when the American
Revolution was reborn, when freedom gained new life, when America reached for her best."

Our two-party system has served us well over the years, but never better than in those times
of great challenge when we came together not as Democrats or Republicans, but as Americans
united in a common cause.

Two of our Founding Fathers, a Boston lawyer named Adams and a Virginia planter named Jefferson,
members of that remarkable group who met in Independence Hall and dared to think they could
start the world over again, left us an important lesson. They had become political rivals in
the Presidential election of 1800. Then years later, when both were retired, and age had softened
their anger, they began to speak to each other again through letters. A bond was reestablished
between those two who had helped create this government of ours.

In 1826, the 50th anniversary of the Declaration of Independence, they both died. They died
on the same day, within a few hours of each other, and that day was the Fourth of July.

Well, with heart and hand, let us stand as one today: One people under God determined that
our future shall be worthy of our past. As we do, we must not repeat the well-intentioned errors
of our past. We must never again abuse the trust of working men and women, by sending their
earnings on a futile chase after the spiraling demands of a bloated Federal Establishment.
You elected us in 1980 to end this prescription for disaster, and I don't believe you reelected
us in 1984 to reverse course.

At the heart of our efforts is one idea vindicated by 25 straight months of economic growth:
Freedom and incentives unleash the drive and entrepreneurial genius that are the core of human
progress. We have begun to increase the rewards for work, savings, and investment; reduce the
increase in the cost and size of government and its interference in people's lives.

We must simplify our tax system, make it more fair, and bring the rates down for all who work
and earn. We must think anew and move with a new boldness, so every American who seeks work
can find work; so the least among us shall have an equal chance to achieve the greatest things--to
be heroes who heal our sick, feed the hungry, protect peace among nations, and leave this world
a better place.

The time has come for a new American emancipation--a great national drive to tear down economic
barriers and liberate the spirit of enterprise in the most distressed areas of our country.
My friends, together we can do this, and do it we must, so help me God.

From new freedom will spring new opportunities for growth, a more productive, fulfilled and
united people, and a stronger America--an America that will lead the technological revolution,
and also open its mind and heart and soul to the treasures of literature, music, and poetry,
and the values of faith, courage, and love.

A dynamic economy, with more citizens working and paying taxes, will be our strongest tool
to bring down budget deficits. But an almost unbroken 50 years of deficit spending has finally
brought us to a time of reckoning. We have come to a turning point, a moment for hard decisions.
I have asked the Cabinet and my staff a question, and now I put the same question to all of
you: If not us, who? And if not now, when? It must be done by all of us going forward with
a program aimed at reaching a balanced budget. We can then begin reducing the national debt.

I will shortly submit a budget to the Congress aimed at freezing government program spending
for the next year. Beyond that, we must take further steps to permanently control Government's
power to tax and spend. We must act now to protect future generations from Government's desire
to spend its citizens' money and tax them into servitude when the bills come due. Let us make
it unconstitutional for the Federal Government to spend more than the Federal Government takes in.

We have already started returning to the people and to State and local governments responsibilities
better handled by them. Now, there is a place for the Federal Government in matters of social
compassion. But our fundamental goals must be to reduce dependency and upgrade the dignity
of those who are infirm or disadvantaged. And here a growing economy and support from family
and community offer our best chance for a society where compassion is a way of life, where
the old and infirm are cared for, the young and, yes, the unborn protected, and the unfortunate
looked after and made self-sufficient.

And there is another area where the Federal Government can play a part. As an older American,
I remember a time when people of different race, creed, or ethnic origin in our land found
hatred and prejudice installed in social custom and, yes, in law. There is no story more heartening
in our history than the progress that we have made toward the "brotherhood of man" that God
intended for us. Let us resolve there will be no turning back or hesitation on the road to
an America rich in dignity and abundant with opportunity for all our citizens.

Let us resolve that we the people will build an American opportunity society in which all of
us--white and black, rich and poor, young and old--will go forward together arm in arm. Again,
let us remember that though our heritage is one of blood lines from every corner of the Earth,
we are all Americans pledged to carry on this last, best hope of man on Earth.

I have spoken of our domestic goals and the limitations which we should put on our National
Government. Now let me turn to a task which is the primary responsibility of National Government--the
safety and security of our people.

Today, we utter no prayer more fervently than the ancient prayer for peace on Earth. Yet history
has shown that peace will not come, nor will our freedom be preserved, by good will alone.
There are those in the world who scorn our vision of human dignity and freedom. One nation,
the Soviet Union, has conducted the greatest military buildup in the history of man, building
arsenals of awesome offensive weapons.

We have made progress in restoring our defense capability. But much remains to be done. There
must be no wavering by us, nor any doubts by others, that America will meet her responsibilities
to remain free, secure, and at peace.

There is only one way safely and legitimately to reduce the cost of national security, and
that is to reduce the need for it. And this we are trying to do in negotiations with the Soviet
Union. We are not just discussing limits on a further increase of nuclear weapons. We seek,
instead, to reduce their number. We seek the total elimination one day of nuclear weapons from
the face of the Earth.

Now, for decades, we and the Soviets have lived under the threat of mutual assured destruction;
if either resorted to the use of nuclear weapons, the other could retaliate and destroy the
one who had started it. Is there either logic or morality in believing that if one side threatens
to kill tens of millions of our people, our only recourse is to threaten killing tens of millions
of theirs?

I have approved a research program to find, if we can, a security shield that would destroy
nuclear missiles before they reach their target. It wouldn't kill people, it would destroy
weapons. It wouldn't militarize space, it would help demilitarize the arsenals of Earth. It
would render nuclear weapons obsolete. We will meet with the Soviets, hoping that we can agree
on a way to rid the world of the threat of nuclear destruction.

We strive for peace and security, heartened by the changes all around us. Since the turn of
the century, the number of democracies in the world has grown fourfold. Human freedom is on
the march, and nowhere more so than our own hemisphere. Freedom is one of the deepest and noblest
aspirations of the human spirit. People, worldwide, hunger for the right of self-determination,
for those inalienable rights that make for human dignity and progress.

America must remain freedom's staunchest friend, for freedom is our best ally.

And it is the world's only hope, to conquer poverty and preserve peace. Every blow we inflict
against poverty will be a blow against its dark allies of oppression and war. Every victory
for human freedom will be a victory for world peace.

So we go forward today, a nation still mighty in its youth and powerful in its purpose. With
our alliances strengthened, with our economy leading the world to a new age of economic expansion,
we look forward to a world rich in possibilities. And all this because we have worked and acted
together, not as members of political parties, but as Americans.

My friends, we live in a world that is lit by lightning. So much is changing and will change,
but so much endures, and transcends time.

History is a ribbon, always unfurling; history is a journey. And as we continue our journey,
we think of those who traveled before us. We stand together again at the steps of this symbol
of our democracy--or we would have been standing at the steps if it hadn't gotten so cold.
Now we are standing inside this symbol of our democracy. Now we hear again the echoes of our
past: a general falls to his knees in the hard snow of Valley Forge; a lonely President paces
the darkened halls, and ponders his struggle to preserve the Union; the men of the Alamo call
out encouragement to each other; a settler pushes west and sings a song, and the song echoes
out forever and fills the unknowing air.

It is the American sound. It is hopeful, big-hearted, idealistic, daring, decent, and fair.
That's our heritage; that is our song. We sing it still. For all our problems, our differences,
we are together as of old, as we raise our voices to the God who is the Author of this most
tender music. And may He continue to hold us close as we fill the world with our sound--sound
in unity, affection, and love--one people under God, dedicated to the dream of freedom that
He has placed in the human heart, called upon now to pass that dream on to a waiting and hopeful
world.

God bless you and may God bless America.

*****

George Bush Inaugural Address Friday, January 20, 1989

Mr. Chief Justice, Mr. President, Vice President Quayle, Senator Mitchell, Speaker Wright,
Senator Dole, Congressman Michel, and fellow citizens, neighbors, and friends:

There is a man here who has earned a lasting place in our hearts and in our history. President
Reagan, on behalf of our Nation, I thank you for the wonderful things that you have done for
America.

I have just repeated word for word the oath taken by George Washington 200 years ago, and the
Bible on which I placed my hand is the Bible on which he placed his. It is right that the memory
of Washington be with us today, not only because this is our Bicentennial Inauguration, but
because Washington remains the Father of our Country. And he would, I think, be gladdened by
this day; for today is the concrete expression of a stunning fact: our continuity these 200
years since our government began.

We meet on democracy's front porch, a good place to talk as neighbors and as friends. For this
is a day when our nation is made whole, when our differences, for a moment, are suspended.

And my first act as President is a prayer. I ask you to bow your heads:

Heavenly Father, we bow our heads and thank You for Your love. Accept our thanks for the peace
that yields this day and the shared faith that makes its continuance likely. Make us strong
to do Your work, willing to heed and hear Your will, and write on our hearts these words: "Use
power to help people." For we are given power not to advance our own purposes, nor to make
a great show in the world, nor a name. There is but one just use of power, and it is to serve
people. Help us to remember it, Lord. Amen.

I come before you and assume the Presidency at a moment rich with promise. We live in a peaceful,
prosperous time, but we can make it better. For a new breeze is blowing, and a world refreshed
by freedom seems reborn; for in man's heart, if not in fact, the day of the dictator is over.
The totalitarian era is passing, its old ideas blown away like leaves from an ancient, lifeless
tree. A new breeze is blowing, and a nation refreshed by freedom stands ready to push on. There
is new ground to be broken, and new action to be taken. There are times when the future seems
thick as a fog; you sit and wait, hoping the mists will lift and reveal the right path. But
this is a time when the future seems a door you can walk right through into a room called tomorrow.

Great nations of the world are moving toward democracy through the door to freedom. Men and
women of the world move toward free markets through the door to prosperity. The people of the
world agitate for free expression and free thought through the door to the moral and intellectual
satisfactions that only liberty allows.

We know what works: Freedom works. We know what's right: Freedom is right. We know how to secure
a more just and prosperous life for man on Earth: through free markets, free speech, free elections,
and the exercise of free will unhampered by the state.

For the first time in this century, for the first time in perhaps all history, man does not
have to invent a system by which to live. We don't have to talk late into the night about which
form of government is better. We don't have to wrest justice from the kings. We only have to
summon it from within ourselves. We must act on what we know. I take as my guide the hope of
a saint: In crucial things, unity; in important things, diversity; in all things, generosity.

America today is a proud, free nation, decent and civil, a place we cannot help but love. We
know in our hearts, not loudly and proudly, but as a simple fact, that this country has meaning
beyond what we see, and that our strength is a force for good. But have we changed as a nation
even in our time? Are we enthralled with material things, less appreciative of the nobility
of work and sacrifice?

My friends, we are not the sum of our possessions. They are not the measure of our lives. In
our hearts we know what matters. We cannot hope only to leave our children a bigger car, a
bigger bank account. We must hope to give them a sense of what it means to be a loyal friend,
a loving parent, a citizen who leaves his home, his neighborhood and town better than he found
it. What do we want the men and women who work with us to say when we are no longer there?
That we were more driven to succeed than anyone around us? Or that we stopped to ask if a sick
child had gotten better, and stayed a moment there to trade a word of friendship?

No President, no government, can teach us to remember what is best in what we are. But if the
man you have chosen to lead this government can help make a difference; if he can celebrate
the quieter, deeper successes that are made not of gold and silk, but of better hearts and
finer souls; if he can do these things, then he must.

America is never wholly herself unless she is engaged in high moral principle. We as a people
have such a purpose today. It is to make kinder the face of the Nation and gentler the face
of the world. My friends, we have work to do. There are the homeless, lost and roaming. There
are the children who have nothing, no love, no normalcy. There are those who cannot free themselves
of enslavement to whatever addiction--drugs, welfare, the demoralization that rules the slums.
There is crime to be conquered, the rough crime of the streets. There are young women to be
helped who are about to become mothers of children they can't care for and might not love.
They need our care, our guidance, and our education, though we bless them for choosing life.

The old solution, the old way, was to think that public money alone could end these problems.
But we have learned that is not so. And in any case, our funds are low. We have a deficit to
bring down. We have more will than wallet; but will is what we need. We will make the hard
choices, looking at what we have and perhaps allocating it differently, making our decisions
based on honest need and prudent safety. And then we will do the wisest thing of all: We will
turn to the only resource we have that in times of need always grows--the goodness and the
courage of the American people.

I am speaking of a new engagement in the lives of others, a new activism, hands-on and involved,
that gets the job done. We must bring in the generations, harnessing the unused talent of the
elderly and the unfocused energy of the young. For not only leadership is passed from generation
to generation, but so is stewardship. And the generation born after the Second World War has
come of age.

I have spoken of a thousand points of light, of all the community organizations that are spread
like stars throughout the Nation, doing good. We will work hand in hand, encouraging, sometimes
leading, sometimes being led, rewarding. We will work on this in the White House, in the Cabinet
agencies. I will go to the people and the programs that are the brighter points of light, and
I will ask every member of my government to become involved. The old ideas are new again because
they are not old, they are timeless: duty, sacrifice, commitment, and a patriotism that finds
its expression in taking part and pitching in.

We need a new engagement, too, between the Executive and the Congress. The challenges before
us will be thrashed out with the House and the Senate. We must bring the Federal budget into
balance. And we must ensure that America stands before the world united, strong, at peace,
and fiscally sound. But, of course, things may be difficult. We need compromise; we have had
dissension. We need harmony; we have had a chorus of discordant voices.

For Congress, too, has changed in our time. There has grown a certain divisiveness. We have
seen the hard looks and heard the statements in which not each other's ideas are challenged,
but each other's motives. And our great parties have too often been far apart and untrusting
of each other. It has been this way since Vietnam. That war cleaves us still. But, friends,
that war began in earnest a quarter of a century ago; and surely the statute of limitations
has been reached. This is a fact: The final lesson of Vietnam is that no great nation can long
afford to be sundered by a memory. A new breeze is blowing, and the old bipartisanship must
be made new again.

To my friends--and yes, I do mean friends--in the loyal opposition--and yes, I mean loyal:
I put out my hand. I am putting out my hand to you, Mr. Speaker. I am putting out my hand to
you Mr. Majority Leader. For this is the thing: This is the age of the offered hand. We can't
turn back clocks, and I don't want to. But when our fathers were young, Mr. Speaker, our differences
ended at the water's edge. And we don't wish to turn back time, but when our mothers were young,
Mr. Majority Leader, the Congress and the Executive were capable of working together to produce
a budget on which this nation could live. Let us negotiate soon and hard. But in the end, let
us produce. The American people await action. They didn't send us here to bicker. They ask
us to rise above the merely partisan. "In crucial things, unity"--and this, my friends, is crucial.

To the world, too, we offer new engagement and a renewed vow: We will stay strong to protect
the peace. The "offered hand" is a reluctant fist; but once made, strong, and can be used with
great effect. There are today Americans who are held against their will in foreign lands, and
Americans who are unaccounted for. Assistance can be shown here, and will be long remembered.
Good will begets good will. Good faith can be a spiral that endlessly moves on.

Great nations like great men must keep their word. When America says something, America means
it, whether a treaty or an agreement or a vow made on marble steps. We will always try to speak
clearly, for candor is a compliment, but subtlety, too, is good and has its place. While keeping
our alliances and friendships around the world strong, ever strong, we will continue the new
closeness with the Soviet Union, consistent both with our security and with progress. One might
say that our new relationship in part reflects the triumph of hope and strength over experience.
But hope is good, and so are strength and vigilance.

Here today are tens of thousands of our citizens who feel the understandable satisfaction of
those who have taken part in democracy and seen their hopes fulfilled. But my thoughts have
been turning the past few days to those who would be watching at home, to an older fellow who
will throw a salute by himself when the flag goes by, and the women who will tell her sons
the words of the battle hymns. I don't mean this to be sentimental. I mean that on days like
this, we remember that we are all part of a continuum, inescapably connected by the ties that bind.

Our children are watching in schools throughout our great land. And to them I say, thank you
for watching democracy's big day. For democracy belongs to us all, and freedom is like a beautiful
kite that can go higher and higher with the breeze. And to all I say: No matter what your circumstances
or where you are, you are part of this day, you are part of the life of our great nation.

A President is neither prince nor pope, and I don't seek a window on men's souls. In fact,
I yearn for a greater tolerance, an easy-goingness about each other's attitudes and way of life.

There are few clear areas in which we as a society must rise up united and express our intolerance.
The most obvious now is drugs. And when that first cocaine was smuggled in on a ship, it may
as well have been a deadly bacteria, so much has it hurt the body, the soul of our country.
And there is much to be done and to be said, but take my word for it: This scourge will stop.

And so, there is much to do; and tomorrow the work begins. I do not mistrust the future; I
do not fear what is ahead. For our problems are large, but our heart is larger. Our challenges
are great, but our will is greater. And if our flaws are endless, God's love is truly boundless.

Some see leadership as high drama, and the sound of trumpets calling, and sometimes it is that.
But I see history as a book with many pages, and each day we fill a page with acts of hopefulness
and meaning. The new breeze blows, a page turns, the story unfolds. And so today a chapter
begins, a small and stately story of unity, diversity, and generosity--shared, and written,
together.

Thank you. God bless you and God bless the United States of America.

*****

Bill Clinton First Inaugural Address Wednesday, January 21, 1993

My fellow citizens:

Today we celebrate the mystery of American renewal.

This ceremony is held in the depth of winter, but by the words we speak and the faces we show
the world, we force the spring. A spring reborn in the world's oldest democracy, that brings
forth the vision and courage to reinvent America. When our founders boldly declared America's
independence to the world, and our purposes to the Almighty, they knew that America, to endure,
would have to change. Not change for change sake, but change to preserve America's ideals:
life, liberty, the pursuit of happiness.

Though we march to the music of our time, our mission is timeless. Each generation of American's
must define what it means to be an American. On behalf of our nation, I salute my predecessor,
President Bush, for his half-century of service to America...and I thank the millions of men
and women whose steadfastness and sacrifice triumphed over depression, fascism and communism.

Today, a generation raised in the shadows of the Cold War assumes new responsibilities in a
world warmed by the sunshine of freedom, but threatened still by ancient hatreds and new plagues.
Raised in unrivalled prosperity, we inherit an economy that is still the world's strongest,
but is weakened by business failures, stagnant wages, increasing inequality, and deep divisions
among *our own* people.

When George Washington first took the oath I have just sworn to uphold, news travelled slowly
across the land by horseback, and across the ocean by boat. Now the sights and sounds of this
ceremony are broadcast instantaneously to billions around the world. Communications and commerce
are global. Investment is mobile. Technology is almost magical, and ambition for a better life
is now universal.

We earn our livelihood in America today in peaceful competition with people all across the
Earth. Profound and powerful forces are shaking and remaking our world, and the *urgent* question
of our time is whether we can make change our friend and not our enemy. This new world has
already enriched the lives of *millions* of Americans who are able to compete and win in it.
But when most people are working harder for less, when others cannot work at all, when the
cost of health care devastates families and threatens to bankrupt our enterprises, great and
small; when the fear of crime robs law abiding citizens of their freedom; and when millions
of poor children cannot even imagine the lives we are calling them to lead, we have not made
change our friend.

We know we have to face hard truths and take strong steps, but we have not done so. Instead
we have drifted, and that drifting has eroded our resources, fractured our economy, and shaken
our confidence. Though our challenges are fearsome, so are our strengths. Americans have ever
been a restless, questing, hopeful people, and we must bring to our task today the vision and
will of those who came before us. From our Revolution to the Civil War, to the Great Depression,
to the Civil Rights movement, our people have always mustered the determination to construct
from these crises the pillars of our history. Thomas Jefferson believed that to preserve the
very foundations of our nation we would need dramatic change from time to time. Well, my fellow
Americans, this is OUR time. Let us embrace it.

Our democracy must be not only the envy of the world but the engine of our *own* renewal. There
is nothing *wrong* with America that cannot be cured by what is *right* with America.

And so today we pledge an end to the era of deadlock and drift, and a new season of American
renewal has begun.

To renew America we must be bold. We must do what no generation has had to do before. We must
invest more in our own people, in their jobs, and in their future, and at the same time cut
our massive debt...and we must do so in a world in which we must compete for every opportunity.
It will not be easy. It will require sacrifice, but it can be done, and done fairly. Not choosing
sacrifice for its own sake, but for *our* own sake. We must provide for our nation the way
a family provides for its children. Our founders saw themselves in the light of posterity.
We can do no less. Anyone who has ever watched a child's eyes wander into sleep knows what
posterity is. Posterity is the world to come, the world for whom we hold our ideals, from whom
we have borrowed our planet, and to whom we bear sacred responsibilities. We must do what America
does best, offer more opportunity TO all and demand more responsibility *from* all.

It is time to break the bad habit of expecting something for nothing: from our government,
or from each other. Let us all take more responsibility, not only for ourselves and our families,
but for our communities and our country. To renew America we must revitalize our democracy.
This beautiful capitol, like every capitol since the dawn of civilization, is often a place
of intrigue and calculation. Powerful people maneuver for position and worry endlessly about
who is *in* and who is *out*, who is *up* and who is *down*, forgetting those people whose
toil and sweat sends us here and paves our way.

Americans deserve better, and in this city today there are people who want to do better, and
so I say to all of you here, let us resolve to reform our politics, so that power and privilege
no longer shout down the voice of the people. Let us put aside personal advantage, so that
we can feel the pain and see the promise of America. Let us resolve to make our government
a place for what Franklin Roosevelt called "bold, persistent experimentation, a government
for our tomorrows, not our yesterdays." Let us give this capitol back to the people to whom
it belongs.

To renew America we must meet challenges abroad, as well as at home. There is no longer a clear
division between what is foreign and what is domestic. The world economy, the world environment,
the world AIDS crisis, the world arms race: they affect us all. Today as an old order passes,
the new world is more free, but less stable. Communism's collapse has called forth old animosities,
and new dangers. Clearly, America must continue to lead the world we did so much to make. While
America rebuilds at home, we will not shrink from the challenges nor fail to seize the opportunities
of this new world. Together with our friends and allies, we will work together to shape change,
lest it engulf us. When our vital interests are challenged, or the will and conscience of the
international community is defied, we will act; with peaceful diplomacy whenever possible,
with force when necessary. The brave Americans serving our nation today in the Persian Gulf,
in Somalia, and wherever else they stand, are testament to our resolve, but our greatest strength
is the power of our ideas, which are still new in many lands. Across the world, we see them
embraced and we rejoice. Our hopes, our hearts, our hands, are with those on every continent,
who are building democracy and freedom. Their cause is America's cause. The American people
have summoned the change we celebrate today. You have raised your voices in an unmistakable
chorus, you have cast your votes in historic numbers, you have changed the face of congress,
the presidency, and the political process itself. Yes, *you*, my fellow Americans, have forced
the spring. Now *we* must do the work the season demands. To that work I now turn with *all*
the authority of my office. I ask the congress to join with me; but no president, no congress,
no government can undertake *this* mission alone.

My fellow Americans, you, too, must play your part in our renewal. I challenge a new generation
of *young* Americans to a season of service, to act on your idealism, by helping troubled children,
keeping company with those in need, reconnecting our torn communities. There is so much to
be done. Enough, indeed, for millions of others who are still young in spirit, to give of themselves
in service, too. In serving we recognize a simple, but powerful, truth: we need each other,
and we must care for one another. Today we do more than celebrate America, we rededicate ourselves
to the very idea of America, an idea born in revolution, and renewed through two centuries
of challenge, an idea tempered by the knowledge that but for fate, we, the fortunate and the
unfortunate, might have been each other; an idea ennobled by the faith that our nation can
summon from its myriad diversity, the deepest measure of unity; an idea infused with the conviction
that America's journey long, heroic journey must go forever upward.

And so, my fellow Americans, as we stand at the edge of the 21st Century, let us begin anew,
with energy and hope, with faith and discipline, and let us work until our work is done. The
Scripture says: "And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap, if
we faint not." From this joyful mountaintop of celebration we hear a call to service in the
valley. We have heard the trumpets, we have changed the guard, and now each in our own way,
and with God's help, we must answer the call.

Thank you and God bless you all.

*****

Bill Clinton Second Inaugural Address January 20, 1997

My fellow citizens:

At this last presidential inauguration of the 20th century, let us lift our eyes toward the
challenges that await us in the next century. It is our great good fortune that time and chance
have put us not only at the edge of a new century, in a new millennium, but on the edge of
a bright new prospect in human affairs--a moment that will define our course, and our character,
for decades to come. We must keep our old democracy forever young. Guided by the ancient vision
of a promised land, let us set our sights upon a land of new promise.

The promise of America was born in the 18th century out of the bold conviction that we are
all created equal. It was extended and preserved in the 19th century, when our nation spread
across the continent, saved the union, and abolished the awful scourge of slavery.

Then, in turmoil and triumph, that promise exploded onto the world stage to make this the American
Century.

And what a century it has been. America became the world's mightiest industrial power; saved
the world from tyranny in two world wars and a long cold war; and time and again, reached out
across the globe to millions who, like us, longed for the blessings of liberty.

Along the way, Americans produced a great middle class and security in old age; built unrivaled
centers of learning and opened public schools to all; split the atom and explored the heavens;
invented the computer and the microchip; and deepened the wellspring of justice by making a
revolution in civil rights for African Americans and all minorities, and extending the circle
of citizenship, opportunity and dignity to women.

Now, for the third time, a new century is upon us, and another time to choose. We began the
19th century with a choice, to spread our nation from coast to coast. We began the 20th century
with a choice, to harness the Industrial Revolution to our values of free enterprise, conservation,
and human decency. Those choices made all the difference. At the dawn of the 21st century a
free people must now choose to shape the forces of the Information Age and the global society,
to unleash the limitless potential of all our people, and, yes, to form a more perfect union.

When last we gathered, our march to this new future seemed less certain than it does today.
We vowed then to set a clear course to renew our nation.

In these four years, we have been touched by tragedy, exhilarated by challenge, strengthened
by achievement. America stands alone as the world's indispensable nation. Once again, our economy
is the strongest on Earth. Once again, we are building stronger families, thriving communities,
better educational opportunities, a cleaner environment. Problems that once seemed destined
to deepen now bend to our efforts: our streets are safer and record numbers of our fellow citizens
have moved from welfare to work.

And once again, we have resolved for our time a great debate over the role of government. Today
we can declare: Government is not the problem, and government is not the solution. We--the
American people--we are the solution. Our founders understood that well and gave us a democracy
strong enough to endure for centuries, flexible enough to face our common challenges and advance
our common dreams in each new day.

As times change, so government must change. We need a new government for a new century--humble
enough not to try to solve all our problems for us, but strong enough to give us the tools
to solve our problems for ourselves; a government that is smaller, lives within its means,
and does more with less. Yet where it can stand up for our values and interests in the world,
and where it can give Americans the power to make a real difference in their everyday lives,
government should do more, not less. The preeminent mission of our new government is to give
all Americans an opportunity--not a guarantee, but a real opportunity--to build better lives.

Beyond that, my fellow citizens, the future is up to us. Our founders taught us that the preservation
of our liberty and our union depends upon responsible citizenship. And we need a new sense
of responsibility for a new century. There is work to do, work that government alone cannot
do: teaching children to read; hiring people off welfare rolls; coming out from behind locked
doors and shuttered windows to help reclaim our streets from drugs and gangs and crime; taking
time out of our own lives to serve others.

Each and every one of us, in our own way, must assume personal responsibility--not only for
ourselves and our families, but for our neighbors and our nation. Our greatest responsibility
is to embrace a new spirit of community for a new century. For any one of us to succeed, we
must succeed as one America.

The challenge of our past remains the challenge of our future--will we be one nation, one people,
with one common destiny, or not? Will we all come together, or come apart?

The divide of race has been America's constant curse. And each new wave of immigrants gives
new targets to old prejudices. Prejudice and contempt, cloaked in the pretense of religious
or political conviction are no different. These forces have nearly destroyed our nation in
the past. They plague us still. They fuel the fanaticism of terror. And they torment the lives
of millions in fractured nations all around the world.

These obsessions cripple both those who hate and, of course, those who are hated, robbing both
of what they might become. We cannot, we will not, succumb to the dark impulses that lurk in
the far regions of the soul everywhere. We shall overcome them. And we shall replace them with
the generous spirit of a people who feel at home with one another.

Our rich texture of racial, religious and political diversity will be a Godsend in the 21st
century. Great rewards will come to those who can live together, learn together, work together,
forge new ties that bind together.

As this new era approaches we can already see its broad outlines. Ten years ago, the Internet
was the mystical province of physicists; today, it is a commonplace encyclopedia for millions
of schoolchildren. Scientists now are decoding the blueprint of human life. Cures for our most
feared illnesses seem close at hand.

The world is no longer divided into two hostile camps. Instead, now we are building bonds with
nations that once were our adversaries. Growing connections of commerce and culture give us
a chance to lift the fortunes and spirits of people the world over. And for the very first
time in all of history, more people on this planet live under democracy than dictatorship.

My fellow Americans, as we look back at this remarkable century, we may ask, can we hope not
just to follow, but even to surpass the achievements of the 20th century in America and to
avoid the awful bloodshed that stained its legacy? To that question, every American here and
every American in our land today must answer a resounding "Yes."

This is the heart of our task. With a new vision of government, a new sense of responsibility,
a new spirit of community, we will sustain America's journey. The promise we sought in a new
land we will find again in a land of new promise.

In this new land, education will be every citizen's most prized possession. Our schools will
have the highest standards in the world, igniting the spark of possibility in the eyes of every
girl and every boy. And the doors of higher education will be open to all. The knowledge and
power of the Information Age will be within reach not just of the few, but of every classroom,
every library, every child. Parents and children will have time not only to work, but to read
and play together. And the plans they make at their kitchen table will be those of a better
home, a better job, the certain chance to go to college.

Our streets will echo again with the laughter of our children, because no one will try to shoot
them or sell them drugs anymore. Everyone who can work, will work, with today's permanent under
class part of tomorrow's growing middle class. New miracles of medicine at last will reach
not only those who can claim care now, but the children and hardworking families too long denied.

We will stand mighty for peace and freedom, and maintain a strong defense against terror and
destruction. Our children will sleep free from the threat of nuclear, chemical or biological
weapons. Ports and airports, farms and factories will thrive with trade and innovation and
ideas. And the world's greatest democracy will lead a whole world of democracies.

Our land of new promise will be a nation that meets its obligations--a nation that balances
its budget, but never loses the balance of its values. A nation where our grandparents have
secure retirement and health care, and their grandchildren know we have made the reforms necessary
to sustain those benefits for their time. A nation that fortifies the world's most productive
economy even as it protects the great natural bounty of our water, air, and majestic land.

And in this land of new promise, we will have reformed our politics so that the voice of the
people will always speak louder than the din of narrow interests--regaining the participation
and deserving the trust of all Americans.

Fellow citizens, let us build that America, a nation ever moving forward toward realizing the
full potential of all its citizens. Prosperity and power--yes, they are important, and we must
maintain them. But let us never forget: The greatest progress we have made, and the greatest
progress we have yet to make, is in the human heart. In the end, all the world's wealth and
a thousand armies are no match for the strength and decency of the human spirit.

Thirty-four years ago, the man whose life we celebrate today spoke to us down there, at the
other end of this Mall, in words that moved the conscience of a nation. Like a prophet of old,
he told of his dream that one day America would rise up and treat all its citizens as equals
before the law and in the heart. Martin Luther King's dream was the American Dream. His quest
is our quest: the ceaseless striving to live out our true creed. Our history has been built
on such dreams and labors. And by our dreams and labors we will redeem the promise of America
in the 21st century.

To that effort I pledge all my strength and every power of my office. I ask the members of
Congress here to join in that pledge. The American people returned to office a President of
one party and a Congress of another. Surely, they did not do this to advance the politics of
petty bickering and extreme partisanship they plainly deplore. No, they call on us instead
to be repairers of the breach, and to move on with America's mission.

America demands and deserves big things from us--and nothing big ever came from being small.
Let us remember the timeless wisdom of Cardinal Bernardin, when facing the end of his own life.
He said:

"It is wrong to waste the precious gift of time, on acrimony and division."

Fellow citizens, we must not waste the precious gift of this time. For all of us are on that
same journey of our lives, and our journey, too, will come to an end. But the journey of our
America must go on.

And so, my fellow Americans, we must be strong, for there is much to dare. The demands of our
time are great and they are different. Let us meet them with faith and courage, with patience
and a grateful and happy heart. Let us shape the hope of this day into the noblest chapter
in our history. Yes, let us build our bridge. A bridge wide enough and strong enough for every
American to cross over to a blessed land of new promise.

May those generations whose faces we cannot yet see, whose names we may never know, say of
us here that we led our beloved land into a new century with the American Dream alive for all
her children; with the American promise of a more perfect union a reality for all her people;
with America's bright flame of freedom spreading throughout all the world.

From the height of this place and the summit of this century, let us go forth. May God strengthen
our hands for the good work ahead--and always, always bless our America.

*****

George W. Bush First Inaugural Address Saturday, January 20, 2001

President Clinton, distinguished guests and my fellow citizens, the peaceful transfer of authority
is rare in history, yet common in our country. With a simple oath, we affirm old traditions
and make new beginnings.

As I begin, I thank President Clinton for his service to our nation.

And I thank Vice President Gore for a contest conducted with spirit and ended with grace.

I am honored and humbled to stand here, where so many of America's leaders have come before
me, and so many will follow.

We have a place, all of us, in a long story--a story we continue, but whose end we will not
see. It is the story of a new world that became a friend and liberator of the old, a story
of a slave-holding society that became a servant of freedom, the story of a power that went
into the world to protect but not possess, to defend but not to conquer.

It is the American story--a story of flawed and fallible people, united across the generations
by grand and enduring ideals.

The grandest of these ideals is an unfolding American promise that everyone belongs, that everyone
deserves a chance, that no insignificant person was ever born.

Americans are called to enact this promise in our lives and in our laws. And though our nation
has sometimes halted, and sometimes delayed, we must follow no other course.

Through much of the last century, America's faith in freedom and democracy was a rock in a
raging sea. Now it is a seed upon the wind, taking root in many nations.

Our democratic faith is more than the creed of our country, it is the inborn hope of our humanity,
an ideal we carry but do not own, a trust we bear and pass along. And even after nearly 225
years, we have a long way yet to travel.

While many of our citizens prosper, others doubt the promise, even the justice, of our own
country. The ambitions of some Americans are limited by failing schools and hidden prejudice
and the circumstances of their birth. And sometimes our differences run so deep, it seems we
share a continent, but not a country.

We do not accept this, and we will not allow it. Our unity, our union, is the serious work
of leaders and citizens in every generation. And this is my solemn pledge: I will work to build
a single nation of justice and opportunity.

I know this is in our reach because we are guided by a power larger than ourselves who creates
us equal in His image.

And we are confident in principles that unite and lead us onward.

America has never been united by blood or birth or soil. We are bound by ideals that move us
beyond our backgrounds, lift us above our interests and teach us what it means to be citizens.
Every child must be taught these principles. Every citizen must uphold them. And every immigrant,
by embracing these ideals, makes our country more, not less, American.

Today, we affirm a new commitment to live out our nation's promise through civility, courage,
compassion and character.

America, at its best, matches a commitment to principle with a concern for civility. A civil
society demands from each of us good will and respect, fair dealing and forgiveness.

Some seem to believe that our politics can afford to be petty because, in a time of peace,
the stakes of our debates appear small.

But the stakes for America are never small. If our country does not lead the cause of freedom,
it will not be led. If we do not turn the hearts of children toward knowledge and character,
we will lose their gifts and undermine their idealism. If we permit our economy to drift and
decline, the vulnerable will suffer most.

We must live up to the calling we share. Civility is not a tactic or a sentiment. It is the
determined choice of trust over cynicism, of community over chaos. And this commitment, if
we keep it, is a way to shared accomplishment.

America, at its best, is also courageous.

Our national courage has been clear in times of depression and war, when defending common dangers
defined our common good. Now we must choose if the example of our fathers and mothers will
inspire us or condemn us. We must show courage in a time of blessing by confronting problems
instead of passing them on to future generations.

Together, we will reclaim America's schools, before ignorance and apathy claim more young lives.

We will reform Social Security and Medicare, sparing our children from struggles we have the
power to prevent. And we will reduce taxes, to recover the momentum of our economy and reward
the effort and enterprise of working Americans.

We will build our defenses beyond challenge, lest weakness invite challenge.

We will confront weapons of mass destruction, so that a new century is spared new horrors.

The enemies of liberty and our country should make no mistake: America remains engaged in the
world by history and by choice, shaping a balance of power that favors freedom. We will defend
our allies and our interests. We will show purpose without arrogance. We will meet aggression
and bad faith with resolve and strength. And to all nations, we will speak for the values that
gave our nation birth.

America, at its best, is compassionate. In the quiet of American conscience, we know that deep,
persistent poverty is unworthy of our nation's promise.

And whatever our views of its cause, we can agree that children at risk are not at fault. Abandonment
and abuse are not acts of God, they are failures of love.

And the proliferation of prisons, however necessary, is no substitute for hope and order in
our souls.

Where there is suffering, there is duty. Americans in need are not strangers, they are citizens,
not problems, but priorities. And all of us are diminished when any are hopeless.

Government has great responsibilities for public safety and public health, for civil rights
and common schools. Yet compassion is the work of a nation, not just a government.

And some needs and hurts are so deep they will only respond to a mentor's touch or a pastor's
prayer. Church and charity, synagogue and mosque lend our communities their humanity, and they
will have an honored place in our plans and in our laws.

Many in our country do not know the pain of poverty, but we can listen to those who do.

And I can pledge our nation to a goal: When we see that wounded traveler on the road to Jericho,
we will not pass to the other side.

America, at its best, is a place where personal responsibility is valued and expected.

Encouraging responsibility is not a search for scapegoats, it is a call to conscience. And
though it requires sacrifice, it brings a deeper fulfillment. We find the fullness of life
not only in options, but in commitments. And we find that children and community are the commitments
that set us free.

Our public interest depends on private character, on civic duty and family bonds and basic
fairness, on uncounted, unhonored acts of decency which give direction to our freedom.

Sometimes in life we are called to do great things. But as a saint of our times has said, every
day we are called to do small things with great love. The most important tasks of a democracy
are done by everyone.

I will live and lead by these principles: to advance my convictions with civility, to pursue
the public interest with courage, to speak for greater justice and compassion, to call for
responsibility and try to live it as well.

In all these ways, I will bring the values of our history to the care of our times.

What you do is as important as anything government does. I ask you to seek a common good beyond
your comfort; to defend needed reforms against easy attacks; to serve your nation, beginning
with your neighbor. I ask you to be citizens: citizens, not spectators; citizens, not subjects;
responsible citizens, building communities of service and a nation of character.

Americans are generous and strong and decent, not because we believe in ourselves, but because
we hold beliefs beyond ourselves. When this spirit of citizenship is missing, no government
program can replace it. When this spirit is present, no wrong can stand against it.

After the Declaration of Independence was signed, Virginia statesman John Page wrote to Thomas
Jefferson: "We know the race is not to the swift nor the battle to the strong. Do you not think
an angel rides in the whirlwind and directs this storm?"

Much time has passed since Jefferson arrived for his inauguration. The years and changes accumulate.
But the themes of this day he would know: our nation's grand story of courage and its simple
dream of dignity.

We are not this story's author, who fills time and eternity with his purpose. Yet his purpose
is achieved in our duty, and our duty is fulfilled in service to one another.

Never tiring, never yielding, never finishing, we renew that purpose today, to make our country
more just and generous, to affirm the dignity of our lives and every life.

This work continues. This story goes on. And an angel still rides in the whirlwind and directs
this storm. I am grateful for the honor of this hour, mindful of the consequential times in
which we live, and determined to fulfill the oath that I have sworn and you have witnessed.

At this second gathering, our duties are defined not by the words I use, but by the history
we have seen together. For a half century, America defended our own freedom by standing watch
on distant borders. After the shipwreck of communism came years of relative quiet, years of
repose, years of sabbatical--and then there came a day of fire.

We have seen our vulnerability--and we have seen its deepest source. For as long as whole regions
of the world simmer in resentment and tyranny--prone to ideologies that feed hatred and excuse
murder--violence will gather, and multiply in destructive power, and cross the most defended
borders, and raise a mortal threat. There is only one force of history that can break the reign
of hatred and resentment, and expose the pretensions of tyrants, and reward the hopes of the
decent and tolerant, and that is the force of human freedom.

We are led, by events and common sense, to one conclusion: The survival of liberty in our land
increasingly depends on the success of liberty in other lands. The best hope for peace in our
world is the expansion of freedom in all the world.

America's vital interests and our deepest beliefs are now one. From the day of our Founding,
we have proclaimed that every man and woman on this earth has rights, and dignity, and matchless
value, because they bear the image of the Maker of Heaven and earth. Across the generations
we have proclaimed the imperative of self-government, because no one is fit to be a master,
and no one deserves to be a slave. Advancing these ideals is the mission that created our Nation.
It is the honorable achievement of our fathers. Now it is the urgent requirement of our nation's
security, and the calling of our time.

So it is the policy of the United States to seek and support the growth of democratic movements
and institutions in every nation and culture, with the ultimate goal of ending tyranny in our
world.

This is not primarily the task of arms, though we will defend ourselves and our friends by
force of arms when necessary. Freedom, by its nature, must be chosen, and defended by citizens,
and sustained by the rule of law and the protection of minorities. And when the soul of a nation
finally speaks, the institutions that arise may reflect customs and traditions very different
from our own. America will not impose our own style of government on the unwilling. Our goal
instead is to help others find their own voice, attain their own freedom, and make their own way.

The great objective of ending tyranny is the concentrated work of generations. The difficulty
of the task is no excuse for avoiding it. America's influence is not unlimited, but fortunately
for the oppressed, America's influence is considerable, and we will use it confidently in freedom's
cause.

My most solemn duty is to protect this nation and its people against further attacks and emerging
threats. Some have unwisely chosen to test America's resolve, and have found it firm.

We will persistently clarify the choice before every ruler and every nation: The moral choice
between oppression, which is always wrong, and freedom, which is eternally right. America will
not pretend that jailed dissidents prefer their chains, or that women welcome humiliation and
servitude, or that any human being aspires to live at the mercy of bullies.

We will encourage reform in other governments by making clear that success in our relations
will require the decent treatment of their own people. America's belief in human dignity will
guide our policies, yet rights must be more than the grudging concessions of dictators; they
are secured by free dissent and the participation of the governed. In the long run, there is
no justice without freedom, and there can be no human rights without human liberty.

Some, I know, have questioned the global appeal of liberty--though this time in history, four
decades defined by the swiftest advance of freedom ever seen, is an odd time for doubt. Americans,
of all people, should never be surprised by the power of our ideals. Eventually, the call of
freedom comes to every mind and every soul. We do not accept the existence of permanent tyranny
because we do not accept the possibility of permanent slavery. Liberty will come to those who
love it.

Today, America speaks anew to the peoples of the world:

All who live in tyranny and hopelessness can know: the United States will not ignore your oppression,
or excuse your oppressors. When you stand for your liberty, we will stand with you.

Democratic reformers facing repression, prison, or exile can know: America sees you for who
you are: the future leaders of your free country.

The rulers of outlaw regimes can know that we still believe as Abraham Lincoln did: "Those
who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and, under the rule of a just God,
cannot long retain it."

The leaders of governments with long habits of control need to know: To serve your people you
must learn to trust them. Start on this journey of progress and justice, and America will walk
at your side.

And all the allies of the United States can know: we honor your friendship, we rely on your
counsel, and we depend on your help. Division among free nations is a primary goal of freedom's
enemies. The concerted effort of free nations to promote democracy is a prelude to our enemies'
defeat.

Today, I also speak anew to my fellow citizens:

From all of you, I have asked patience in the hard task of securing America, which you have
granted in good measure. Our country has accepted obligations that are difficult to fulfill,
and would be dishonorable to abandon. Yet because we have acted in the great liberating tradition
of this nation, tens of millions have achieved their freedom. And as hope kindles hope, millions
more will find it. By our efforts, we have lit a fire as well--a fire in the minds of men.
It warms those who feel its power, it burns those who fight its progress, and one day this
untamed fire of freedom will reach the darkest corners of our world.

A few Americans have accepted the hardest duties in this cause--in the quiet work of intelligence
and diplomacy...the idealistic work of helping raise up free governments...the dangerous and
necessary work of fighting our enemies. Some have shown their devotion to our country in deaths
that honored their whole lives--and we will always honor their names and their sacrifice.

All Americans have witnessed this idealism, and some for the first time. I ask our youngest
citizens to believe the evidence of your eyes. You have seen duty and allegiance in the determined
faces of our soldiers. You have seen that life is fragile, and evil is real, and courage triumphs.
Make the choice to serve in a cause larger than your wants, larger than yourself--and in your
days you will add not just to the wealth of our country, but to its character.

America has need of idealism and courage, because we have essential work at home--the unfinished
work of American freedom. In a world moving toward liberty, we are determined to show the meaning
and promise of liberty.

In America's ideal of freedom, citizens find the dignity and security of economic independence,
instead of laboring on the edge of subsistence. This is the broader definition of liberty that
motivated the Homestead Act, the Social Security Act, and the G.I. Bill of Rights. And now
we will extend this vision by reforming great institutions to serve the needs of our time.
To give every American a stake in the promise and future of our country, we will bring the
highest standards to our schools, and build an ownership society. We will widen the ownership
of homes and businesses, retirement savings and health insurance--preparing our people for
the challenges of life in a free society. By making every citizen an agent of his or her own
destiny, we will give our fellow Americans greater freedom from want and fear, and make our
society more prosperous and just and equal.

In America's ideal of freedom, the public interest depends on private character--on integrity,
and tolerance toward others, and the rule of conscience in our own lives. Self-government relies,
in the end, on the governing of the self. That edifice of character is built in families, supported
by communities with standards, and sustained in our national life by the truths of Sinai, the
Sermon on the Mount, the words of the Koran, and the varied faiths of our people. Americans
move forward in every generation by reaffirming all that is good and true that came before--ideals
of justice and conduct that are the same yesterday, today, and forever.

In America's ideal of freedom, the exercise of rights is ennobled by service, and mercy, and
a heart for the weak. Liberty for all does not mean independence from one another. Our nation
relies on men and women who look after a neighbor and surround the lost with love. Americans,
at our best, value the life we see in one another, and must always remember that even the unwanted
have worth. And our country must abandon all the habits of racism, because we cannot carry
the message of freedom and the baggage of bigotry at the same time.

From the perspective of a single day, including this day of dedication, the issues and questions
before our country are many. From the viewpoint of centuries, the questions that come to us
are narrowed and few. Did our generation advance the cause of freedom? And did our character
bring credit to that cause?

These questions that judge us also unite us, because Americans of every party and background,
Americans by choice and by birth, are bound to one another in the cause of freedom. We have
known divisions, which must be healed to move forward in great purposes--and I will strive
in good faith to heal them. Yet those divisions do not define America. We felt the unity and
fellowship of our nation when freedom came under attack, and our response came like a single
hand over a single heart. And we can feel that same unity and pride whenever America acts for
good, and the victims of disaster are given hope, and the unjust encounter justice, and the
captives are set free.

We go forward with complete confidence in the eventual triumph of freedom. Not because history
runs on the wheels of inevitability; it is human choices that move events. Not because we consider
ourselves a chosen nation; God moves and chooses as He wills. We have confidence because freedom
is the permanent hope of mankind, the hunger in dark places, the longing of the soul. When
our Founders declared a new order of the ages; when soldiers died in wave upon wave for a union
based on liberty; when citizens marched in peaceful outrage under the banner "Freedom Now"--they
were acting on an ancient hope that is meant to be fulfilled. History has an ebb and flow of
justice, but history also has a visible direction, set by liberty and the Author of Liberty.

When the Declaration of Independence was first read in public and the Liberty Bell was sounded
in celebration, a witness said, "It rang as if it meant something." In our time it means something
still. America, in this young century, proclaims liberty throughout all the world, and to all
the inhabitants thereof. Renewed in our strength--tested, but not weary--we are ready for the
greatest achievements in the history of freedom.

May God bless you, and may He watch over the United States of America.

*****

Text of President Barack Obama's inaugural address on Tuesday, as prepared for delivery and
released by the Presidential Inaugural Committee.

OBAMA: My fellow citizens:

I stand here today humbled by the task before us, grateful for the trust you have bestowed,
mindful of the sacrifices borne by our ancestors. I thank President Bush for his service to
our nation, as well as the generosity and cooperation he has shown throughout this transition.

Forty-four Americans have now taken the presidential oath. The words have been spoken during
rising tides of prosperity and the still waters of peace. Yet, every so often the oath is taken
amidst gathering clouds and raging storms. At these moments, America has carried on not simply
because of the skill or vision of those in high office, but because we the people have remained
faithful to the ideals of our forebears, and true to our founding documents.

So it has been. So it must be with this generation of Americans.

That we are in the midst of crisis is now well understood. Our nation is at war, against a
far-reaching network of violence and hatred. Our economy is badly weakened, a consequence of
greed and irresponsibility on the part of some, but also our collective failure to make hard
choices and prepare the nation for a new age. Homes have been lost; jobs shed; businesses shuttered.
Our health care is too costly; our schools fail too many; and each day brings further evidence
that the ways we use energy strengthen our adversaries and threaten our planet.

These are the indicators of crisis, subject to data and statistics. Less measurable but no
less profound is a sapping of confidence across our land -- a nagging fear that America's decline
is inevitable, and that the next generation must lower its sights.

Today I say to you that the challenges we face are real. They are serious and they are many.
They will not be met easily or in a short span of time. But know this, America -- they will be met.

On this day, we gather because we have chosen hope over fear, unity of purpose over conflict
and discord.

On this day, we come to proclaim an end to the petty grievances and false promises, the recriminations
and worn out dogmas, that for far too long have strangled our politics.

We remain a young nation, but in the words of scripture, the time has come to set aside childish
things. The time has come to reaffirm our enduring spirit; to choose our better history; to
carry forward that precious gift, that noble idea, passed on from generation to generation:
the God-given promise that all are equal, all are free and all deserve a chance to pursue their
full measure of happiness.

In reaffirming the greatness of our nation, we understand that greatness is never a given.
It must be earned. Our journey has never been one of shortcuts or settling for less. It has
not been the path for the faint-hearted -- for those who prefer leisure over work, or seek
only the pleasures of riches and fame. Rather, it has been the risk-takers, the doers, the
makers of things -- some celebrated but more often men and women obscure in their labor, who
have carried us up the long, rugged path towards prosperity and freedom.

For us, they packed up their few worldly possessions and traveled across oceans in search of
a new life.

For us, they toiled in sweatshops and settled the West; endured the lash of the whip and plowed
the hard earth.

For us, they fought and died, in places like Concord and Gettysburg; Normandy and Khe Sahn.

Time and again these men and women struggled and sacrificed and worked till their hands were
raw so that we might live a better life. They saw America as bigger than the sum of our individual
ambitions; greater than all the differences of birth or wealth or faction.

This is the journey we continue today. We remain the most prosperous, powerful nation on Earth.
Our workers are no less productive than when this crisis began. Our minds are no less inventive,
our goods and services no less needed than they were last week or last month or last year.
Our capacity remains undiminished. But our time of standing pat, of protecting narrow interests
and putting off unpleasant decisions -- that time has surely passed. Starting today, we must
pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off, and begin again the work of remaking America.

For everywhere we look, there is work to be done. The state of the economy calls for action,
bold and swift, and we will act -- not only to create new jobs, but to lay a new foundation
for growth. We will build the roads and bridges, the electric grids and digital lines that
feed our commerce and bind us together. We will restore science to its rightful place, and
wield technology's wonders to raise health care's quality and lower its cost. We will harness
the sun and the winds and the soil to fuel our cars and run our factories. And we will transform
our schools and colleges and universities to meet the demands of a new age. All this we can
do. And all this we will do.

Now, there are some who question the scale of our ambitions -- who suggest that our system
cannot tolerate too many big plans. Their memories are short. For they have forgotten what
this country has already done; what free men and women can achieve when imagination is joined
to common purpose, and necessity to courage.

What the cynics fail to understand is that the ground has shifted beneath them -- that the
stale political arguments that have consumed us for so long no longer apply. The question we
ask today is not whether our government is too big or too small, but whether it works -- whether
it helps families find jobs at a decent wage, care they can afford, a retirement that is dignified.
Where the answer is yes, we intend to move forward. Where the answer is no, programs will end.
And those of us who manage the public's dollars will be held to account -- to spend wisely,
reform bad habits, and do our business in the light of day -- because only then can we restore
the vital trust between a people and their government.

Nor is the question before us whether the market is a force for good or ill. Its power to generate
wealth and expand freedom is unmatched, but this crisis has reminded us that without a watchful
eye, the market can spin out of control -- and that a nation cannot prosper long when it favors
only the prosperous. The success of our economy has always depended not just on the size of
our gross domestic product, but on the reach of our prosperity; on our ability to extend opportunity
to every willing heart -- not out of charity, but because it is the surest route to our common
good.

As for our common defense, we reject as false the choice between our safety and our ideals.
Our founding fathers, faced with perils we can scarcely imagine, drafted a charter to assure
the rule of law and the rights of man, a charter expanded by the blood of generations. Those
ideals still light the world, and we will not give them up for expedience's sake. And so to
all other peoples and governments who are watching today, from the grandest capitals to the
small village where my father was born: know that America is a friend of each nation and every
man, woman, and child who seeks a future of peace and dignity, and that we are ready to lead
once more.

Recall that earlier generations faced down fascism and communism not just with missiles and
tanks, but with sturdy alliances and enduring convictions. They understood that our power alone
cannot protect us, nor does it entitle us to do as we please. Instead, they knew that our power
grows through its prudent use; our security emanates from the justness of our cause, the force
of our example, the tempering qualities of humility and restraint.

We are the keepers of this legacy. Guided by these principles once more, we can meet those
new threats that demand even greater effort -- even greater cooperation and understanding between
nations. We will begin to responsibly leave Iraq to its people, and forge a hard-earned peace
in Afghanistan. With old friends and former foes, we will work tirelessly to lessen the nuclear
threat, and roll back the specter of a warming planet. We will not apologize for our way of
life, nor will we waver in its defense, and for those who seek to advance their aims by inducing
terror and slaughtering innocents, we say to you now that our spirit is stronger and cannot
be broken; you cannot outlast us, and we will defeat you.

For we know that our patchwork heritage is a strength, not a weakness. We are a nation of Christians
and Muslims, Jews and Hindus -- and non-believers. We are shaped by every language and culture,
drawn from every end of this Earth; and because we have tasted the bitter swill of civil war
and segregation, and emerged from that dark chapter stronger and more united, we cannot help
but believe that the old hatreds shall someday pass; that the lines of tribe shall soon dissolve;
that as the world grows smaller, our common humanity shall reveal itself; and that America
must play its role in ushering in a new era of peace.

To the Muslim world, we seek a new way forward, based on mutual interest and mutual respect.
To those leaders around the globe who seek to sow conflict, or blame their society's ills on
the West -- know that your people will judge you on what you can build, not what you destroy.
To those who cling to power through corruption and deceit and the silencing of dissent, know
that you are on the wrong side of history; but that we will extend a hand if you are willing
to unclench your fist.

To the people of poor nations, we pledge to work alongside you to make your farms flourish
and let clean waters flow; to nourish starved bodies and feed hungry minds. And to those nations
like ours that enjoy relative plenty, we say we can no longer afford indifference to suffering
outside our borders; nor can we consume the world's resources without regard to effect. For
the world has changed, and we must change with it.

As we consider the road that unfolds before us, we remember with humble gratitude those brave
Americans who, at this very hour, patrol far-off deserts and distant mountains. They have something
to tell us today, just as the fallen heroes who lie in Arlington whisper through the ages.
We honor them not only because they are guardians of our liberty, but because they embody the
spirit of service; a willingness to find meaning in something greater than themselves. And
yet, at this moment -- a moment that will define a generation -- it is precisely this spirit
that must inhabit us all.

For as much as government can do and must do, it is ultimately the faith and determination
of the American people upon which this nation relies. It is the kindness to take in a stranger
when the levees break, the selflessness of workers who would rather cut their hours than see
a friend lose their job which sees us through our darkest hours. It is the firefighter's courage
to storm a stairway filled with smoke, but also a parent's willingness to nurture a child,
that finally decides our fate.

Our challenges may be new. The instruments with which we meet them may be new. But those values
upon which our success depends -- hard work and honesty, courage and fair play, tolerance and
curiosity, loyalty and patriotism -- these things are old. These things are true. They have
been the quiet force of progress throughout our history. What is demanded then is a return
to these truths. What is required of us now is a new era of responsibility -- a recognition,
on the part of every American, that we have duties to ourselves, our nation, and the world,
duties that we do not grudgingly accept but rather seize gladly, firm in the knowledge that
there is nothing so satisfying to the spirit, so defining of our character, than giving our
all to a difficult task.

This is the price and the promise of citizenship.

This is the source of our confidence -- the knowledge that God calls on us to shape an uncertain
destiny.

This is the meaning of our liberty and our creed -- why men and women and children of every
race and every faith can join in celebration across this magnificent mall, and why a man whose
father less than sixty years ago might not have been served at a local restaurant can now stand
before you to take a most sacred oath.

So let us mark this day with remembrance, of who we are and how far we have traveled. In the
year of America's birth, in the coldest of months, a small band of patriots huddled by dying
campfires on the shores of an icy river. The capital was abandoned. The enemy was advancing.
The snow was stained with blood.

America, in the face of our common dangers, in this winter of our hardship, let us remember
these timeless words. With hope and virtue, let us brave once more the icy currents, and endure
what storms may come. Let it be said by our children's children that when we were tested we
refused to let this journey end, that we did not turn back nor did we falter; and with eyes
fixed on the horizon and God's grace upon us, we carried forth that great gift of freedom and
delivered it safely to future generations.

