THE DRAMATIC ELEMENT IN THE BIBLE.

We say dramatic element in the Bible, not dramatic element of the Bible, since that of which
we speak is not essential, but incidental; it is an aspect of the form of the book, not an
attribute of its inspiration.

By the use of the term dramatic in this connection, let us, in the outset, be understood to
have no reference whatever to the theatre and stage-effect, or to the sundry devices whereby
the playhouse is made at once popular and intolerable. Nor shall we anticipate any charge of
irreverence; since we claim the opportunity and indulge only the license of the painter, who,
in the treatment of Scriptural themes, seeks both to embellish the sacred page and to honor
his art,--and of the sculptor, and the poet, likewise, each of whom, ranging divine ground,
remarks upon the objects there presented according to the law of his profession. As the picturesque,
the statuesque, the poetical in the Bible are legitimate studies, so also the dramatic.

But in the premises, is not the term dramatic interdicted,--since it is that which is not the
Bible, but which is foreign to the Bible, and even directly contradistinguished therefrom?
The drama is representation,--the Bible is fact; the drama is imitation,--the Bible narrative;
the one is an embodiment,--the other a substance; the one transcribes the actual by the personal,--the
other is a return to the simplest originality; the one exalts its subjects by poetic freedom,--the
other adheres to prosaic plainness.

Yet are there not points in which they meet, or in which, for the purposes of this essay, they
may be considered as coming together,--that is, admitting of an artistical juxtaposition?

In the first place, to take Shakspeare for a type of the drama, what, we ask, is the distinguishing
merit of this great writer? It is his fidelity to Nature. Is not the Bible also equally true
to Nature? "It is the praise of Shakspeare," says Dr. Johnson, "that his plays are the mirror
of life." Was there ever a more consummate mirror of life than the Bible affords? "Shakspeare
copied the manners of the world then passing before him, and has more allusions than other
poets to the traditions and superstitions of the vulgar." The Bible, perhaps, excels all other
books in this sort of description. "Shakspeare was an exact surveyor of the inanimate world."
The Bible is full of similar sketches. An excellence of Shakspeare is the individuality of
his characters. "They are real beings of flesh and blood," the critics tell us; "they speak
like men, not like authors." How truly this applies to the persons mentioned in sacred writ!
Goethe has compared the characters of Shakspeare to "watches with crystalline cases and plates,
which, while they point out with perfect accuracy the course of the hours and minutes, at the
same time disclose the whole combination of springs and wheels whereby they are moved." A similar
transparency of motive and purpose, of individual traits and spontaneous action, belongs to
the Bible. From the hand of Shakspeare, "the lord and the tinker, the hero and the valet, come
forth equally distinct and clear." In the Bible the various sorts of men are never confounded,
but have the advantage of being exhibited by Nature herself, and are not a contrivance of the
imagination. "Shylock," observes a recent critic, "seems so much a man of Nature's making,
that we can scarce accord to Shakspeare the merit of creating him." What will you say of Balak,
Nabal, Jeroboam? "Macbeth is rather guilty of tempting the Weird Sisters than of being tempted
by them, and is surprised and horrified at his own hell-begotten conception." Saul is guilty
of tampering with the Witch of Endor, and is alarmed at the Ghost of Samuel, whose words distinctly
embody and vibrate the fears of his own heart, and he "falls straightway all along on the earth."
"The exquisite refinement of Viola triumphs over her masculine attire." The exquisite refinement
of Ruth triumphs in the midst of men.

We see there are points in which dramatic representation and Scriptural delineation mutually touch.

A distinguished divine of Connecticut said he wanted but two books in his library, the Bible
and Shakspeare,--the one for religion, the other to be his instructor in human nature. In the
same spirit, St. Chrysostom kept a copy of Aristophanes under his pillow, that he might read
it at night before he slept and in the morning when he waked. The strong and sprightly eloquence
of this father, if we may trust tradition, drew its support from the vigorous and masculine
Atticism of the old comedian.

But human nature, in every stage of its development and every variety of its operation, is
as distinctly pronounced on the pages of Scripture as in the scenes of the dramatist. He has
been called the "thousand-minded," the "oceanic soul." The Bible creates the world and peoples
it, and gives us a profound and universal insight into all its concerns.

Another peculiarity of Shakspeare is his self-forgetfulness. In reading what is written, you
do not think of him, but of his productions. "The perfect absence of himself from his own pages
makes it difficult for us to conceive of a human being having written them." This remark applies
with obvious force to the Bible. The authors of the several books do not thrust themselves
upon your notice, or interfere with your meditations on what they have written; indeed, to
such an extent is this self-abeyance maintained, that it is impossible, at this period of time,
to determine who are the authors of some of the books. The narrative of events proceeds, for
the most part, as if the author had never existed. How naively and perspicuously everything
is told, without the colouring of prejudice, or an infusion of egotism on the part of the writer!
The Bible even goes farther than this, and is faithful to the foibles and imperfections of
its favorite characters, and describes a rebellious Moses, a perjured David, a treacherous Peter.

"In nothing does Shakspeare so deeply and divinely touch the heart of humanity as in the representation
of woman." We have the grandeur of Portia, the sprightliness of Rosalind, the passion of Juliet,
the delicacy of Ophelia, the mournful dignity of Hermione, the filial affection of Cordelia.
How shall we describe the Pythian greatness of Miriam, the cheerful hospitality of Sarah, the
heroism of Rahab, the industry of Dorcas, the devotion of Mary? And we might set off Lady Macbeth
with Jezebel, and Cleopatra with Delilah.

But the Bible, it may be said, so far as the subject before us is concerned, is chiefly historical,
while Shakspeare is purely dramatic. The one is description,--the other action; the one relates
to events,--the other to feelings; the department of the one is the general course of human
affairs,--that of the other, the narrower circle of individual experience; the field of the
one is that which the eye of philosophy may embrace,--while that of the other is what the human
frame may portray.

However this may apply to the average of history, it will be found that the Bible, in its historical
parts, is not so strictly historical as to preclude associations of another sort. The Bible
is remarkable for a visual and embodied relief, a bold and vivid detail. We know of no book,
if we may except the compositions of professed dramatists, that contains so much of personal
feeling and incident. In simplicity and directness, in freedom from exaggeration, and in the
general unreserve of its expression, it even exceeds the most of these. In it we may discover
a succession of little dramas of Nature that will affect us quite as profoundly as those larger
ones of Art.

If the structure of the drama be dialogistic, we find the Bible formed on the same model. If
the writers of the former disappear under the personages of their fancy, the writers of the
latter disappear under the personages of fact. As in the one, so in the other, strangers are
introduced to tell their own story, each in his own way.

In the commencement of the Bible, after a brief prologue, the curtain rises, and we, as spectators,
look in upon a process of interlocution. The scene is the green, sunny garden of Eden, that
to which the memory of humanity reverts as to its dim golden age, and which ever expresses
the bright dream of our youth, ere the rigor of misfortune or the dulness of experience has
spoilt it. The dramatis personae are three individuals, Adam, Eve, and the Serpent. There are
the mysterious tree, with its wonderful fruit,--the beautiful, but inquisitive woman,--the
thoughtful, but too compliant man,--and the insinuating reptile. One speaks, the other rejoins,
and the third fills up the chasm of interest. The plot thickens, the passions are displayed,
and the tragedy hastens to its end. Then is heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the
cool (the wind) of the garden, the impersonal presence of Jehovah is, as it were, felt in the
passing breeze, and a shadow falls upon the earth,--but such a shadow as their own patient
toil may dissipate, and beyond the confines of which their hope, which has now taken the place
of enjoyment, is permitted ever to look.

Without delaying on the moral of this passage, what we would remark upon is the clearness and
freedom of the dialogue,--a feature which we find pervading the whole of the sacred writings.

In the account of Cain, which immediately succeeds, the narrative is inelaborate, casual, secondary;
the dialogue is simple and touching. The agony of the fratricide and his remorse are better
expressed by his own lips than could be done by any skill of the historian.

In the deception which Abraham put upon the Egyptians, touching his wife,--which it is no part
of our present object to justify or to condemn,--what a stroke of pathos, what a depth of conjugal
sentiment, is exhibited!

Viola appears very interesting and very innocent, when, in boy's clothes, she wanders about
in pursuit of a lover. Is not Sarah equally interesting and equally innocent, when, under cover
of an assumed name, and that a sister's, she would preserve the love of one who has worthily
won it?

Will it be said that the dialogue of the Bible lacks the charm of poetry?--that its action
and sentiment, its love and its sorrow, are not heightened by those efforts of the fancy which
delight us in dramatic authors?--that its simplicity is bald, and its naturalness rough?--that
its excessive familiarity repels taste and disturbs culture? If we may trust Wordsworth, simplicity
is not inconsistent with the pleasures of the imagination. The style of the Bible is not redundant,--there
is little extravagance in it, and it has no trickery of words. Yet this does not prevent its
being deep in sentiment, brilliant with intrinsic thought or powerful effect.

In the "Two Gentlemen of Verona," Valentine thus utters himself touching his betrothed:--

  "What light is light, if Sylvia be not seen?
  What joy is joy, if Sylvia be not by?
  Except I see my Sylvia in the night,
  There is no music in the nightingale.
  Unless I look on Sylvia in the day,
  There is no day for me to look upon.
  She is my essence; and I cease to be,
  If I be not by her fair influence
  Fostered, illumined, cherished, kept alive."

Compare with this the language of Abraham. "Thou art fair, my wife. The first is an instance
of poetic amplification and abandon; we should contend, for the last, that it expresses poetic
tenderness and delicacy. In the one case, passion is diffuse,--in the other, concentrated.
Which is the more natural, others must judge.

"Euthanasy," "Theron and Aspasio," the "Phaedon" of Plato are dialogues, but they are not dramatic.
It may be, that, for a composition to claim this distinction, it must embody great character
or deep feeling,--that it must express not only the individuality, but the strength of the
passions.

Observing this criticism, we think we may find any quantity of dramatic dialogue in Scripture.
The story of Joseph, the march in the wilderness, the history of David, are full of it.

There are not only dramatic dialogue and movement, but dramatic monologue and episode. For
illustration, we might refer to Hagar in the wilderness. Her tragic loneliness and shuddering
despair alight upon the page of Scripture with the interest that attends the introduction of
the veiled Niobe with her children into the Grecian theatre.

There are those who say, that the truth of particular events, so far as we are conscious of
it, is a drawback on the pleasure as well as the dignity of the drama,--in other words, that
the Bible is too true to afford what is called dramatic delight, while the semblance of truth
in Shakspeare is exactly graduated to this particular affection. Between the advocates of this
theory, and those who say that Shakspeare is true as truth itself, we can safely leave the point.

The subject has another aspect, which appears in the inquiry, What is the true object of the
drama? If, as has been asserted, the object of the drama be the exhibition of the human character,--if,
agreeably to Aristotle, tragedy purifies the affections by terror and pity,--or if, according
to a recent writer, it interests us through the moral and religious principles of our nature,--or
even if, according to Dr. Johnson, it be the province of comedy to bring into view the customs,
manners, vices, and the whole character of a people,--it is obvious that the Bible and the
drama have some correspondence. If, in the somewhat heated language of Mrs. Jameson, "whatever
in religion is holy and sublime, in virtue amiable and grave, whatever hath passion or admiration
in the changes of fortune or the refluxes of feeling, whatever is pitiful in the weakness,
grand in the strength, or terrible in the perversion of the human intellect," be the domain
of tragedy, this correspondence increases upon us.

If, however, it be the object of the drama to divert, then it occupies a wholly different ground
from the Bible. If it merely gratifies curiosity or enlivens pastime, if it awakens emotion
without directing it to useful ends, if it rallies the infirmities of human nature with no
other design than to provoke our derision or increase our conceit, it shoots very, very wide
of the object which the sacred writers propose.

It is worthy to be remarked, that the Jews had no drama, or nothing that answers to our idea
of that term at the present time; they had no theatres, no writers of tragedy or comedy. Neither
are there any traces of the dramatic art among the Egyptians, among whom the Jews sojourned
four hundred years, nor among the Arabs or the Persians, who are of kindred stock with this
people. On the other hand, by the Hindoos and Chinese, the Greeks and Romans, histrionic representation
was cultivated with assiduity.

How shall we explain this national peculiarity? Was it because the religion of the Jews forbade
creative imitation? Is it to be found in the letter or the spirit of the second commandment,
which interdicts the making of graven images of any pattern in earth or heaven? We should hardly
think so, since the object of this prohibition is rather to prevent idolatry than to discourage
the gratification of taste. "Thou shalt not bow down to them nor serve them." The Jews did
have emblematic observances, costume, and works of art. Yet, on the other hand, the Jews possessed
something resembling the drama, and that out of which the dramatic institutions of all nations
have sprung. The question, then, why the Jews had no drama proper, and still preserved the
semblance and germ thereof, will be partially elucidated by a reference to the early history
of dramatic art.

In its inception, the drama, among all nations, was a religious observance. It came in with
the chorus and the ode. The chorus, or, as we now say, choir, was a company of persons who
on stated occasions sang sacred songs, accompanying their music with significant gesture, and
an harmonious pulsation of the feet, or the more deliberate march. The ode or song they sang
was of an elevated structure and impassioned tone, and was commonly addressed to the Divinity.
Instances of the ode are the lyrics of Pindar and David. The chorus was also divided into parts,
to each of which was assigned a separate portion of the song, and which answered one another
in alternate measures. A good instance of the chorus and its movement appears after the deliverance
of the Jews from the dangers of the Red Sea. At a later period, in Jewish as in Greek history,
choral exercises became a profession, and the choir constituted a detached portion of men and
women.

"Those who have studied the history of Grecian antiquities," says Archbishop Potter, "and collected
the fragments which remain of the most ancient authors, have all concurred in the opinion,
that poetry was first employed in celebrating the praises of the gods. The fragments of the
Orphic hymns, and those of Linus and Musaeus, show these poets entertained sounder notions
of the Supreme Being than many philosophers of a later date. There are lyric fragments yet
remaining that bear striking resemblance to Scripture."

So, says Bishop Horne, "The poetry of the Jews is clearly traceable to the service of religion.
To celebrate the praises of God, to decorate his worship, and give force to devout sentiments,
was the employment of the Hebrew Muse."

The choral song, that is, a sacred ode united with appropriate action, distinguished the Jews
and Greeks alike. At a later period of Jewish history, the chorus became perfected, yet without
receiving any organic change. Among the Greeks, however, the chorus passed by degrees into
the drama. To simple singing and dancing they added a variety of imitative action; from celebrating
the praises of the Divinity, they proceeded to represent the deeds of men, and their orchestras
were enlarged to theatres. They retained the chorus, but subordinated it to the action. The
Jews, on the other hand, did no more than dramatize the chorus. So, Bishop Horsley says, the
greater part of the Psalms are a sort of dramatic ode, consisting of dialogues between certain
persons sustaining certain characters. In these psalms, the persons are the writer himself
and a band of Levites,--or sometimes the Supreme Being, or a personation of the Messiah.

We find, then, the Jews and the Greeks running parallel in respect of the drama, or that out
of which the drama sprung, the chorus, for a long series of years. The practice of the two
nations in this respect exhibits a striking coincidence, indeed, Lowth conceives that the Song
of Solomon bears a strong resemblance to the Greek drama. "The chorus of virgins," he says,
"seems in every respect congenial to the tragic chorus of the Greeks. They are constantly present,
and prepared to fulfil all the duties of advice and consolation; they converse frequently with
the different characters; they take part in the whole business of the poem." They fulfilled,
in a word, all the purpose of the Greek chorus on the Greek stage.

On certain occasions, the Greek chorus celebrated divine worship in the vicinity of the great
altar of their god. Clad in magnificent vestments, they move to solemn measures about it; they
ascend and descend the steps that lead to it; they offer sacrifices upon it; they carry in
their hands lighted torches; they pour out lustral water; they burn incense; they divide into
antiphonal bands, and sing alternate stanzas of their sacred songs.

So, in their religious festivals, the Jewish chorus surrounded the high altar of their worship,
gorgeously dressed, and with an harmonious tread; they mounted and remounted the steps; they
offered sacrifices; they bore branches of trees in their hands; they scattered the lustral
water; they burnt incense; they pealed the responsive anthem.

But while we follow down the stream of resemblance to a certain point, it divides at last:
on the Greek side, it is diverted into the lighter practice of the theatre; on the Jewish side,
it seems to deepen itself in the religious feeling of the nation.

Aeschylus, the father of tragedy, seizing upon the chorus, elaborated it into the drama. The
religious idea, indeed, seems never to have deserted the gentile drama; for, at a later period,
we find the Romans appointing theatrical performances with the special design of averting the
anger of the gods. A religious spirit, also, pervades all the writings of the ancient dramatists;
they bring the gods to view, and the terrors of the next world, on their stage, are seen crowding
upon the sins of this.

On the other hand, David, who may be denominated the Alfred of the Jews, seems to have contented
himself with the chorus; he allotted its members, disciplined its ranks, heightened its effect,
and supplied new lyrics for its use.

Another exemplification of singular coincidence and diversity between the two nations appears
in this, that the goat was common in the religious observances of both; a similar ritual required
the sacrifice of this animal: but with the Jews the creature was an emblem of solemnity, while
with the Greeks he was significant of joy; the Jews sacrificed him on their fasts,--the Greeks
in their feasts. And here we may observe, that tragedy, the most dignified and the primitive
form of the drama, deduces its origin from the goat,--being, literally, the song of the goat,
that is, the song accompanying the sacrifice of the goat.

Let us now endeavor to answer the question, Why, since the drama was generally introduced among
surrounding nations, and Jewish customs and life comprised so many initial dramatic materials,
this art was not known among that people?

It was owing to the earnestness and solemnity of their religious faith. We find the cause in
the simple, exalted, and comparatively spiritual ideas they had of the Supreme Being; in a
word, we shall state the whole ground to be this,--that the Greeks were polytheists, and the
Jews monotheists.

Let us bear in mind that the chorus, and the drama that was built upon it, had a religious
association, and were employed in religious devotion. We may add, moreover, that the Greeks
introduced their gods upon the stage; this the Jews could not do. The Greeks, of course, had
a great deal of religious feeling, but they could not cherish that profound reverence for the
object of their worship which the Jews entertained towards theirs. The Jews accompanied the
Greeks in the use of the chorus, but they could not go with them any farther. They both united
in employing music and the dance, and all the pomp of procession and charm of ceremony, in
divine worship; but when it came to displaying the object of their adoration in personal form
to the popular eye, and making him an actor on the stage, however dignified that stage might
be, the Jews could not consent.

This, we think, will explain, in part, why others of the ancient nations, the Arabs and Persians,
rich as they were in every species of literature, had no theatre; they were monotheists.

But there is the department of comedy, of a lighter sort, which does not converse with serious
subjects, or necessarily include reference to Deity; why do we find no trace of this among
the Jews? We may remember, that all festivals, in very ancient time, of every description,
the grave and the gay, the penitential and the jubilant, had a religious design, and were suggested
by a religious feeling. We think the peculiar cast of the Judaic faith would hardly embody
itself in such a mode of expression. Moreover, tragedy was the parent of comedy,--and since
the Jews had not the first, we should hardly expect them to produce the last. It is not difficult
to perceive how the Greeks could convert their goat to dramatic, or even to comic purposes;
but the Jews could not deal so with theirs.

We approach another observation, that there is no comedy in the Bible. There is tragedy there,--not
in the sense in which we have just denied that the Jews had tragedy, but in the obvious sense
of tragic elements, tragic scenes, tragic feelings. In the same sense, we say, there are no
comic elements, or scenes, or feelings. There is that in the Bible to make you weep, but nothing
to move you to laughter. Why is this? Are there not smiles as well as tears in life? Have we
not a deep, joyous nature, as well as aspiration, reverence, awe? Is there not a free-and-easy
side of existence, as well as vexation and sorrow? We assent that these things are so.

But comedy implies ridicule, sharp, corroding ridicule. The comedy of the Greeks ridiculed
everything,--persons, characters, opinions, customs, and sometimes philosophy and religion.
Comedy became, therefore, a sort of consecrated slander, lyric spite, aesthetical buffoonery.
Comedy makes you laugh at somebody's expense; it brings multitudes together to see it inflict
death on some reputation; it assails private feeling with all the publicity and powers of the
stage.

Now we doubt if the Jewish faith or taste would tolerate this. The Jews were commanded to love
their neighbor. We grant, their idea of neighbor was excessively narrow and partial; but still
it was their neighbor. They were commanded not to bear false witness against their neighbor,
and he was pronounced accursed who should smite his neighbor secretly. It might appear that
comedy would violate each of these statutes. But the Jews had their delights, their indulgences,
their transports, notwithstanding the imperfection of their benevolence, the meagreness of
their truth, and the cumbersomeness of their ceremonials. The Feast of Tabernacles, for instance,
was liberal and happy, bright and smiling; it was the enthusiasm of pastime, the psalm of delectableness.
They did not laugh at the exposure of another's foibles, but out of their own merry hearts.

Will it be said, the Bible is not true to Nature, if it does not represent the comical side
of life, as well as Shakspeare does? We think the comical parts of Shakspeare, his extreme
comical parts, are rather an exaggeration of individual qualities than a fair portraiture of
the whole species. There is no Falstaff in the Bible, yet the qualities of Falstaff exist in
the Bible and in Nature, but in combination, and this combination modifies their aspect and effect.

There is laughter in the Bible, but it is not uttered to make you laugh. There are also events
recorded, which, at the time, may have produced effects analogous to comedy. The approach of
the Gibeonites to the camp of Israel in their mock-beggarly costume might be mentioned. Shimei's
cursing David has always seemed to us to border on the ludicrous.

But to leave these matters and return to the general thread of thought. Dramas have been formed
on the Bible. We hardly need name "Paradise Lost," or "Samson Agonistes," or the "Cain" of
Byron, the "Hadad" of Hillhouse, or Mrs. More's "David and Goliah." "Pilgrim's Progress" has
a Scriptural basis.

Moreover, if we may trust the best critics, certain portions of the sacred volume are conceived
in a dramatic spirit, and are propounded to a dramatic interpretation. These are the Book of
Job, the Song of Solomon, and, possibly, the Apocalypse of St. John. If we were disposed to
contend for this view, we need but mention such authorities as Calmet, Carpzov, Bishops Warburton,
Percy, Lowth, Bossuet.

The Book of Job has a prose prologue and epilogue, the intermediate portions being poetic dialogue.
The characters are discriminated and well supported. It does not preserve the unities of Aristotle,
which, indeed, are found neither in the Bible nor in Nature,--which Shakspeare neglects, and
which are to be met with only in the crystalline artificialness of the French stage. "It has
no plot, not even of the simplest kind," says Dr. Lowth. It has a plot,--not an external and
visible one, but an internal and spiritual one; its incidents are its feelings, its progress
is the successive conditions of mind, and it terminates with the triumph of virtue. If it be
not a record of actual conversation, it is an embodiment of a most wonderful ideality. The
eternity of God, the grandeur of Nature, the profundity of the soul, move in silent panorama
before you. The great and agitating problems of human existence are depicted with astonishing
energy and precision, and marvellous is the conduct of the piece to us who behold it as a painting
away back on the dark canvas of antiquity.

We said the Jews had no drama, no theatre, because they would not introduce the Divinity upon
the stage. Yet God appears speaking in the Book of Job, not bodily, but ideally, and herein
is all difference. This drama addresses the imagination, not the eye. The Greeks brought their
divinities into sight, stood them on the stage,--or clothed a man with an enormous mask, and
raised him on a pedestal, giving him also corresponding apparel, to represent their god. The
Hebrew stage, if we may share the ordinary indulgence of language in using that term, with
an awe and delicacy suitable to the dignity of the subject, permits the Divinity to speak,
but does not presume to employ his person; the majesty of Infinitude utters itself, but no
robe-maker undertakes to dress it for the occasion. In the present instance, how exalted, how
inspiring, is the appearance of God! how free from offensive diminution and costumal familiarity!
"Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said." Dim indeed is the representation,
but very distinct is the impression. The phenomenon conforms to the purity of feeling, not
to the grossness of sense. Devotion is kindled by the sublime impalpableness; no applause is
enforced by appropriate acting. The Greeks, would have played the Book of Job,--the Jews were
contented to read it.

And here we might remark a distinction between dramatic reading and dramatic seeing; and in
support of our theory we can call to aid so good an authority as Charles Lamb. "I cannot help
being of opinion," says this essayist, "that the plays of Shakspeare are less calculated for
performance on a stage than those of almost any other dramatist whatever."

How are the love dialogues of Romeo and Juliet, by the inherent fault of stage representation,
sullied and turned from their very nature by being exposed to a large assembly! How can the
profound sorrows of Hamlet be depicted by a gesticulating actor? In the acted Othello, the
black visage of the Moor is obtruded upon you; in the written Othello, his color disappears
in his mind. When Hamlet compares the two pictures of Gertrude's first and second husband,
who wants to see the pictures? But in the acting, a miniature must be lugged out. "The truth
is," he adds, "the characters of Shakspeare are more the objects of meditation than of interest
or curiosity as to their actions."

All this applies with force to what we have been saying. The Jews, in respect of their dramatic
culture, seem more like one who enjoys Shakspeare in the closet; the Greeks, like those who
are tolled off to the theatre to see him acted. The Greeks would have contrived a pair of bellows
to represent the whirlwind; mystic, vast, inaudible, it passes before the imagination of the
Jew, and its office is done. The Jew would be shocked to see his God in a human form; such
a thing pleased the Greek. The source of the difference is to be sought in the theology of
the two nations. The theological development of the Jews was very complete,--that of the Greeks
unfinished.

Yet the Jews were very deficient in art, and the Greeks perfect; both failed in humanity. The
Greeks had more ideality than the Jews; but their ideality was very intense; it was continually,
so to speak, running aground; it must see its conceptions embodied; and more,--when they were
embodied, Pygmalion-like, it must seek to imbue them with motion and sensibility. The conception
of the Jews was more vague, perhaps, but equally affecting; they were satisfied with carrying
in their minds the faint outline of the sublime, without seeking to chisel it into dimension
and tangibility. They cherished in their bosoms their sacred ideal, and worshipped from far
the greatness of the majesty that shaded their imaginations. Hence we look to Athens for art,
to Palestine for ethics; the one produces rhetoricians,--the other, prophets.

So, we see, the theologico-dramatic forms of the two nations--and there were no other--are
different. The one pleases the prurient eye,--the other gratifies the longing soul; the one
amuses,--the other inspires; the one is a hollow pageant of divine things,--the other is a
glad, solemn intimation from the unutterable heart of the universe.

The Song of Solomon, that stumbling-block of criticism and pill of faith, a recent writer regards
as a parable in the form of a drama, in which the bride is considered as representing true
religion, the royal lover as the Jewish people, and the younger sister as the Gospel dispensation.
But it is evidently conceived in a very different spirit from the Book of Job or the Psalms
of David, and its theological character is so obscured by other associations as to lead many
to inquire whether an enlightened religious sensibility dictated it.

We cannot dismiss this part of our subject without allusion to a species of drama that prevailed
in the Middle Ages, called Mysteries, or Moralities. These were a sort of scenical illustration
of the Sacred Scripture, and the subjects were events taken sometimes from the New Testament
and sometimes from the Old. It is said they were designed to supply the place of the Greek
and Roman theatre, which had been banished from the Church. The plays were written and performed
by the clergy. They seem to have first been employed to wile away the dulness of the cloister,
but were very soon introduced to the public. Adam and Eve in Paradise, the Crucifixion, the
Resurrection were theatrized. The effect could hardly be salutary. The different persons of
the Trinity appeared on the stage; on one side of the scene stretched the yawning throat of
an immense wooden dragon; masked devils ran howling in and out.

"In the year 1437,"--we follow the literal history, as we find it quoted in D'Israeli,--"when
the Bishop of Metz caused the Mystery of the Passion to be represented near that city, God
was an old gentleman, a curate of the place, and who was very near expiring on the cross, had
he not been timely assisted. He was so enfeebled that another priest finished his part. At
the same time this curate undertook to perform the Resurrection, which being a less difficult
task, he did it admirably well. In another instance, a man who assumed the Supreme Being becoming
nearly suffocated by the paint applied to his face, it was wisely announced that for the future
the Deity should be covered by a cloud. These plays, carried about the country, taken up by
the baser sort of people, descended through all degrees of farce to obscenity, and, in England,
becoming entangled in politics, at length disappeared. It is said they linger in Italy, and
are annually reproduced in Spain.

The Bible is incapable of representation. For a man to act the Supreme Being would be as revolting
in idea as profane in practice. One may in words portray the divine character, give utterance
to the divine will. This every preacher does. But to what is the effect owing? Not to proprieties
of attitude or arrangement of muscle, but to the spirit of the man magnified and flooding with
the great theme, and to the thought of God that surrounds and subdues all; in other words,
the imagination is addressed, not the sight,--the sentiments and affections are engaged, not
the senses. As Lamb says of the Lear of Shakspeare, it cannot be acted; so, with greater force,
we may say of the Bible, it cannot be acted. When we read or hear of the Passion of the Saviour,
it is the thought, the emotion, burning and seething within it, at which by invisible contact
our own thought and emotion catch fire; and the capabilities of impersonation and manufacture
are mocked by such a subject.

But the Bible abounds in dramatic situation, action, and feeling. This has already been intimated;
it only remains that we indicate some examples. The history of David fulfils all the demands
of dramatic composition. It has the severe grandeur of Aeschylus, the moving tenderness of
Euripides, and the individual fidelity of Shakspeare. Could this last-named writer, who, while
he counterfeited Nature with such success, was equally commended for his historical integrity,--could
Shakspeare have performed that service on this history, which Milton, More, and others have
undertaken on other portions of the sacred volume,--could he have digested it into a regular
dramatic form,--he would have accomplished a work of rare interest. It would include the characters
of Samuel and Saul; it would describe the magnanimous Jonathan and the rebellious Absalom;
Nathan, Nabal, Goliah, Shimei, would impart their respective features; it would be enriched
with all that is beautiful in woman's love or enduring in parental affection. It is full of
incident, and full of pathos. It verges towards the terrible, it is shaken with the passionate,
it rises into the heroic. Pursued in the true spirit of Jewish theology, the awful presence
of God would overhang and pervade it, while the agency of his providence should attend on the
evolutions of events.

There is one effect which, in the present arrangement of the canon, is entirely lost to view,
and which could be revived only by the synchronizing of the Psalms with their proper epochs.
For instance, the eighth Psalm is referable to the youth of David, when he was yet leading
a shepherd life. The dramatic form of his history would detach this from its present place,
and insert it amid the occasions and in the years to which it belongs. What a scene we should
then have! The youthful David, ruddy he was, and, withal, of a beautiful countenance, (marginal
reading, fair of eyes,) and goodly to look to; and he was a cunning player on the harp. There
is the glow of poetic enthusiasm in his eyes, and the fervor of religious feeling in all his
moods; as he tends his flock amid the quietness and beauty of his native hills, he joins to
the aspirations of his soul the melodies of music. So the night overtakes him, the labors of
the day are past, his meditations withdraw him from the society of men, he is alone with Nature
and with God;--at such a moment the spirit of composition and utterance is upon him, and he
hymns himself in those lofty and touching stanzas,--

  "O Jehovah, our Lord,
  How excellent is thy name in all the earth!
  O Jehovah, our Lord,
  How excellent is thy name in all the earth!"

Again, the fifty-seventh Psalm is assigned, in respect of place, to the cave of En-gedi, into
which David fled from the vengeance of Saul. Here, surrounded by lofty rocks, whose promontories
screen a wide extent of vale, he breaks forth,--

  "Have pity upon me, O God, have pity upon me,
  For in thee doth my soul seek refuge!
  Yea, in the shadow of thy wings do I take shelter,
  Until these calamities be overpast!"

Dramatically touched, and disposed according to the natural unities of the subject, these sublime
and affecting songs would appear on their motive occasions, and be surrounded by their actual
accompaniments.

The present effect may be compared to that which would be felt, if we should detach the songs
of the artificial drama from their original impulse and feeling, (for instance, the willow
dirge of Desdemona, and the fantastic moans of Ophelia,) and produce them in a parlor. Not
but that these lyrics have a universal fitness, and a value which no time can change or circumstance
diminish; but as we are looking at them simply in a dramatic view, we claim the right to suggest
their dramatic force and pertinency. This effect, we might remark, is particularly and most
truthfully regarded in the Lament of David over Saul and Jonathan. That monody would be shorn
of its interest, if it were inserted anywhere else. The Psalms are more impersonal and more
strictly religious than that, and hence their universal application; only we say, we can easily
conceive that the revival of them in the order of their history, and in all the purity of their
native pathos, would render them more attractive.

In connection with what we would further observe of the Psalms of David, let us again call
attention to the ancient chorus,--how it was a species of melodrama, how it sang its parts,
and comprised distinct vocalists and musicians, who pursued the piece in alternate rejoinder.
What we would observe is, that many of the Psalms were written for the chorus, and, so to speak,
were performed by it. There are some of them which it is impossible to understand without attention
to this dramatic method of rehearsal. Psalm cxviii., for instance, includes several speakers.
Psalm xxiv. was composed on the occasion of the transfer of the ark to the tabernacle on Mount
Zion. And David, we read, and all the house of Israel, brought up the ark with shouting and
with the sound of the trumpet. In the midst of the congregated nation, supported by a varied
instrumental accompaniment, with the smoke of the well-fed altar surging into the skies, the
chorus took up the song which had been prepared to their hand,--one group calling out, "Who
shall ascend into the hill of the Lord?"--the other pealing their answer, "He that hath clean
hands and a pure heart." Meanwhile, they dance before the Lord,--that is, we suppose, preserving
with their feet the unities of the music.

It was during a melodrama like this, in the midst of its exciting grandeur and all-pervading
transport, executed at the Feast of Tabernacles, in the open area of the Temple, when the Jews
were wont to pour upon the altar water taken from the pool of Siloam, chanting at the same
time the twelfth chapter of Isaiah, and one division of the chorus had just sung the words,--

  "With joy we draw water from the wells of salvation,"

and before the other had replied,--it was at this moment, that Christ, as Dr. Furness very
reasonably conjectures, took up the response in his own person, and overwhelmed attention by
that memorable declaration, "If any man thirst, let him come to me and drink; and from within
him shall flow rivers of living water."

It is what we may term the dramatic proprieties that give to many of the Psalms, in the language
of a recent commentator, "a greater degree of fitness, spirit, and grandeur"; and they impart
to the history of David a certain decorousness of illustration and perspicuity of feature which
it would not otherwise possess. They would produce upon it the same result as is achieved by
the sister arts on this and other portions of the sacred volume, without marring the text or
doing violence to truth. Not, let us repeat, that the Bible can be theatrized. Neither church
nor playhouse can revive the forms of Judaism, without recalling its lost spirit. And that
must be a bold hand, indeed, that shall undertake to mend again the shivered vail of the Temple,
or collect from its ruins a ritual which He that was greater than Solomon typically denounced
in foretelling the overthrow of that gorgeous pile. The Bible, as to its important verities
and solemn doctrine, is transparent to the imagination and affections, and does not require
the mediation of dumb show or scenic travesty.

It is not difficult to trace many familiar dramatic resemblances in the
Old Testament. Shakspeare, who was certainly well read in the Bible and
frequently quotes it, in the composition of Lear may have had David and
Absalom in mind; the feigned madness of Hamlet has its prototype in that
of David; Macbeth and the Weird Sisters have many traits in common with
Saul and the Witch of Endor. Jezebel is certainly a suggestive study for
Lady Macbeth. As in the play, so in this Scripture, we have the unrestrained and
ferocious ambition of the wife conspiring with the equally cruel, but
less hardy ambition of the husband. When Macbeth had murdered sleep,
when he could not screw his courage to the sticking-point, when his
purpose looked green and pale, his wife stings him with taunts, scathes
him with sarcasm, and by her own energy of intellect and storm of will
arouses him to action. So Ahab came in heavy and displeased, and laid
him down on his bed, and turned away his face, and so his wife inflames
him with the sharpness of her rebuke. "Why art thou sad?" she asks. The lust of regal and conjugal pride, intermixed, works in both.
Jezebel, whose husband was a king, would crown him with kingly deeds.
Lady Macbeth, whose husband was a prince, would see him crowned a king.
Jezebel would aggrandize empire, which her unlawful marriage thereto had
jeoparded. Lady Macbeth will run the risk of an unlawful marriage with
empire, if she may thereby aggrandize it. Jezebel is insensible to
patriotic feelings,--Lady Macbeth to civil and hospitable duties. The
Zidonian woman braves the vengeance of Jehovah,--the Scotch woman dares
the Powers of Darkness; the one is incited by the oracles of Baal,--the
other by the predictions of witches. Lady Macbeth has more intellectual
force,--Jezebel more moral decision; Lady Macbeth exhibits great
imagination,--Jezebel a stronger will. As the character of Lady Macbeth
is said to be relieved by the affection she shows for her husband, so is
that of Jezebel by her tenderness for Ahab. Come to my woman's breasts,
  And take my milk for gall, ye murdering ministers!"

But the last moments of these excessive characters are singularly contrasted. Jezebel scoffs
at approaching retribution, and, shining with paint and dripping with jewels, is pitched to
the dogs; Lady Macbeth goes like a coward to her grave, and, curdled with remorse, receives
the stroke of doom.

If Shakspeare and the Old Testament are a just manifestation of human nature, the New is so
different, its representation would seem to be almost fanciful or fallacious; or if the latter
be accepted, the former would seem to be discarded. But both are faithful to the different
ages and phases of man. The one is a dispensation of force,--the other of love; the one could
make nothing perfect,--but the bringing in of a better covenant makes all things perfect. Through
the tempest and storm, the brutality and lust of the Greek tragedians, and even of the barbarous
times on which Shakspeare builds many of his plays, through the night of Judaical back-slidings,
idolatry, and carnal commandments, we patiently wait, and gladly hail the morning of the Sun
of Righteousness. The New Testament is a green, calm, island, in this heaving, fearful ocean
of dramatic interest. How delightful is everything there, and how elevated! how glad, and how
solemn! how energetic, and how tranquil! What characters, what incident, what feeling! Yet
how different! So different, indeed, from what elsewhere appears, that we are compelled to
ask, Can this be that same old humanity whose passions, they tell us, are alike in all ages,
and the emphatic turbulence of which constitutes so large a portion of history?

But how shall we describe what is before us? The events open, if we may draw a term from our
subject, with a prologue spoken by angels,--

  "Peace on earth, and good-will towards men."

There had been Jezebels and Lady Macbeths enough; the memory of David still smelt of blood;
the Roman eagles were gorging their beaks on human flesh; and the Samaritan everywhere felt
the gnawing, shuddering sense of hatred and scorn. No chorus appears answering to chorus, praising
the god of battles, or exulting in the achievements of arms; but the sympathies of Him who
was touched with the feeling of our infirmities answer to the wants and woes of the race, and
every thoughtful mind ecstatically encores. The inexorable Fate of the Greeks does not appear,
but a good Providence interferes, and Heaven smiles graciously upon the scene. There is passion,
indeed, grief and sorrow, sin and suffering,--but the tempest-stiller is here, who breathes
tranquillity upon the waters, and pours serenity into the turbid deep. The Niobe of humanity,
stiff and speechless, with her enmarbled children, that used sometimes to be introduced on
the Athenian stage for purposes of terror or pity, is here restored to life, and she renders
thanks for her deliverance and participates in the general joy to which the piece gives birth.
No murderers of the prophets are hewn in pieces before the Lord; but from the agonies of the
cross and the depths of a preternatural darkness, the tender cry is heard, on behalf of the
murderers of the Son of God, "Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do!" No Alcestis
is exhibited, doomed to destruction to save the life of her husband,--but One appears, moving
cheerfully, voluntarily, forwards, to what may be termed the funeral pile of the world, from
which, phoenix-like, he rises, and gloriously ascends, drawing after him the hearts, the love,
the worship of millions of spectators. The key of the whole piece is Redemption, the spirit
that actuates is Love. The chief actors, indeed, are Christ and Man; but innumerable subsidiary
personages are the Charities. The elements of a spiritualized existence act their part. Humanity
is not changed in its substance, but in its tendencies; the sensibilities exist, but under
a divine culture. Stephen is as heroic as Agamemnon, Mary as energetic as Medea. Little children
are no longer dashed in pieces,--they are embraced and blessed.

But let us select for attention, and for a conclusion to these remarks, a particular scene.
It shall be from Luke. This evangelist has been fabled a painter, and in the apotheosis of
the old Church he was made the tutelar patron of that class of artists. If the individuality
of his conceptions, the skill of his groupings, and the graphicness gave rise to such an idea,
it would seem to have its foundation as well in Nature as in superstition. Matthew has more
detail, more thought; Luke is more picturesque, more descriptive. John has more deep feeling;
Luke more action, more life. The Annunciation, the Widow of Nain, the Prodigal Son, the Good
Samaritan, the Rich Man and Lazarus, and the incident to which we shall presently advert, are
found in Luke alone.

The incident in question is the dining of Christ at the house of Simon the Pharisee, and, while
they were reclining at meat, the entrance of a woman which was a sinner, who bathes the feet
of Jesus with tears, and wipes them with the hair of her head. The place is the city of Nain;
the hour noon. The dramatis personae are three,--Jesus, Simon, and the Woman,--and, if we choose
to add them, the other guests, who are silent spectators of what transpires.

Let, us consider, first, the Woman. She "was a sinner." This is all, in fact, that we know
of her; but this is enough. The term "sinner," in this instance, as in many others, does not
refer to the general apostasy in Adam; it is distinctive of race and habit. She was probably
of heathen extraction, as she was certainly of a dissolute life. The poetry of sin and shame
calls her the Magdalen, and there may be a convenience in permitting this name to stand. The
depth of her depravity Christ clearly intimates in his allusion to the debtor who owed five
hundred pence, and the language of Simon teaches that the infamy of her life was well understood
among the inhabitants of the city. If a foreigner, she had probably been brought into the country
by the Roman soldiers and deserted. If a native, she had fallen beneath the ban of respectability,
and was an outcast alike from hope and from good society. She was condemned to wear a dress
different from that of other people; she was liable at any moment to be stoned for her conduct;
she was one whom it was a ritual impurity to touch. She was wretched beyond measure; but while
so corrupt, she was not utterly hardened. Incapable of virtue, she was not incapable of gratitude.
Weltering in grossness, she could still be touched by the sight of purity. Plunged into extremest
vice, she retained the damning horror of her situation. If she had ever striven to recover
her lost position, there were none to assist her; the bigotry of patriotism rejected her for
her birth,--the scrupulousness of modesty, for her history. The night, that consecrated so
many homes and gathered together so many families in innocence and repose, was to her blacker
than its own blackness in misery and turpitude; the morning, that radiated gladness over the
face of the world, revealed the extent and exaggerated the sense of her own degradation. But
the vision of Jesus had alighted upon her; she had seen him speeding on his errands of mercy;
she hung about the crowd that followed his steps; his tender look of pity may have sometimes
gleamed into her soul. Stricken, smitten, confounded, her yearnings for peace gush forth afresh.
It was as if Hell, moved by contrition, had given up its prey,--as if Remorse, tired of its
gnawing, felt within itself the stimulus of hope. But how shall she see Jesus? Wherewithal
shall she approach him? She has "nothing to pay." She has tears enough, and sorrows enough,--but
these are derided by the vain, and suspected by the wise. She has an alabaster box of ointment,
which, shut out as she is from honorable gain, must be the product and the concomitant of her
guilt. But with these she must go. We see her threading her lonely way through the streets,
learning by hints, since she would not dare to learn by questions, where Jesus is, and stops
before the vestibule of the elegant mansion of Simon the Pharisee.

Who is Simon the Pharisee? Not necessarily a bad man. We associate whatever is odious in hypocrisy
or base in craft with the name Pharisee, while really it was the most distinguished title among
the Jews. Many of the Pharisees were hypocrites; not all of them. The name is significant of
profession, not of character. He could not have been an unprincipled, villanous man, or he
would never have tendered to Jesus the hospitalities of his house. Indeed, Christ allows him,
in the sense of moral indebtedness, to owe but fifty pence. He was probably a rich man, which
might appear from the generous entertainment he made. He was a respectable man. The sect to
which he belonged was the most celebrated and influential among the Jews; and when not debased
by positive crime, a Pharisee was always esteemed for his learning and his piety. He had some
interest in Christ, either in his mission or his character,--an interest beyond mere curiosity,
or he would not have invited him to dine with him. He betrays a sincere friendliness, also,
in his apprehension lest Christ should suffer any religious contamination.

The third person in the scene is Christ, who, to speak of him not as theology has interpreted
him to us, but as he appeared to the eyes of his contemporaries, was the reputed son of Joseph
and Mary, the Bethlehemites; who by his words and deeds had attracted much attention and made
some converts; now accused of breaking the Jewish Sabbath, now of plotting against the Roman
sovereignty; one who in his own person had felt the full power of temptation, and who had been
raised to the grandeur of a transfiguration; so tender he would not bruise the broken reed,
so gentle his yoke was rest; raying out with compassion and love wherever he went; healing
alike the pangs of grief and the languor of disease; whom some believed to be the Messiah,
and others thought a prophet; whom the masses followed, and the priests feared;--this is the
third member of the company.

The two last, with the other guests, are engaged at their meal, and in conversation. The door
is darkened by a strange figure; all eyes are riveted on the apparition; the Magdalen enters,
faded, distressed, with long dishevelled hair. She has no introduction; she says nothing; indeed,
in all this remarkable scene she never speaks; her silence is as significant as it is profound.
She goes behind the couch where Jesus, according to Oriental custom, is reclined. She drops
at his feet; there her tears stream; there the speechless agony of her soul bursts. Observe
the workings of the moment. See how those people are affected. Surprise on the part of Simon
and his friends turns to scorn, and this shades into indignation. Jesus is calm, collected,
and intently thoughtful. The woman is overwhelmed by her situation. The lip of Simon curls,
his eye flashes with fire of outraged virtue. Jesus meets his gaze with equal fire, but it
is all of pure heavenly feeling. Simon moves to have the vagabond expelled; Christ interrupts
the attempt. But the honor of the house is insulted. Yes, but the undying interests of the
soul are at stake. But the breath of the woman is ritual poison, and her touch will bring down
the curses of the law. But the look of Christ indicates that depth of spirituality before which
the institutions of Moses flee away as chaff before the wind. Simon has some esteem for Jesus,
and in this juncture his sensations take a turn of pity, spiced, perhaps, with a little contempt,
and he says with himself,--"Surely, this man cannot be a prophet, as is pretended, or he would
know who and what sort of woman it is that touches him; for she is a sinner; she is unclean
and reprobate."

"Simon!" says Jesus, with a tone that pierced to the worthy host's heart, and arrested the
force of his pious alarm,--"Simon!"

"Sir, say on," is the reply of the Pharisee, who is awed by this appeal into an humble listener.

Whereupon Jesus relates the story of the two debtors, and, with irresistible strength of illustration
and delicacy of application, breaks the prejudice and wins the composure of the Jew. "If, then,"
he continues, "he loves much to whom much is forgiven, what shall we say of one who loves so much?"

"See," he goes on, pointing to the woman, "See this woman,--this wretch. She kisses my feet;
she anoints them with ointment. Wherefore I say unto thee, her sins, which are many, are forgiven;
for she loved much."

This scene, however inadequately it may be set forth, contains all that is sublime in tragedy,
terrible in guilt, or intense in pathos. The woman represents humanity, or the soul of human
nature; Simon, the world, or worldly wisdom; Christ, divinity, or the divine purposes of good
to us ward. Simon is an incarnation of what St. Paul calls the beggarly elements; Christ, of
spirituality; the woman, of sin. It is not the woman alone,--but in her there cluster upon
the stage all want and woe, all calamity and disappointment, all shame and guilt. In Christ
there come forward to meet her, love, hope, truth, light, salvation. In Simon are acted out
doting conservatism, mean expediency, purblind calculation, carnal insensibility. Generosity
in this scene is confronted with meanness, in the attempt to shelter misfortune. The woman
is a tragedy herself, such as Aeschylus never dreamed of. The scourging Furies, dread Fate,
and burning Hell unite in her, and, borne on by the new impulse of the new dispensation, they
come towards the light, they ask for peace, they throng to the heaven that opens in Jesus.
Simon embodies that vast array of influences that stand between humanity and its redemption.
He is a very excellent, a very estimable man,--but he is not shocked at intemperance, he would
not have slavery disturbed, he sees a necessity for war. Does Christ know who and what sort
of a woman it is that touches him? Will he defile himself by such a contact? Can he expect
to accomplish anything by familiarity with such matters? Why is he not satisfied with a good
dinner? "Simon!" "Simon!"

The silence of the woman is wonderful, it is awful. What is most profound, most agitating,
most intense cannot speak; words are too little for the greatness of feeling. So Job sat himself
upon the ground seven days and seven nights, speechless. Not in this case, as is said of Schiller's
Robbers, did the pent volcano find vent in power-words; not in strong and terrible accents
was uttered the hoarded wrath of long centuries of misrule and oppression. The volcano, raging,
aching, threw itself in silence into the arms of one who could soothe and allay it. The thunder
is noisy and harmless. The lightning is silent,--and the lightning splits, kills, consumes.
Humanity had muttered its thunder for ages. Its lightning, the condensed, fiery, fatal force
of things, leaped from the blackness of sin, threaded with terrific glare the vision of man,
and, in the person of the woman, fell hot and blasting at the feet of Jesus, who quenched its
fire, and of that destructive bolt made a trophy of grace and a fair image of hope. She could
not speak, and so she wept,--like the raw, chilling, hard atmosphere, which is relieved only
by a shower of snow. How could she speak, guilty, remorseful wretch, without excuse, without
extenuation? In the presence of divine virtue, at the tribunal of judgment, she could only
weep, she could only love. But, blessed be Jesus, he could forgive her, he can forgive all.
The woman departs in peace; Simon is satisfied; Jesus triumphs; we almost hear the applauses
with which the ages and generations of earth greet the closing scene. From the serene celestial
immensity that opens above the spot we can distinguish a voice, saying, "This is my beloved
Son; hear ye him!"

We speak of these things dramatically, but, after all, they are the only great realities. Everything
else is mimetic, phantasmal, tinkling. Deeply do the masters of the drama move us; but the
Gospel cleaves, inworks, regenerates. In the theatre, the leading characters go off in death
and despair, or with empty conceits and a forced frivolity; in the Gospel, tranquilly, grandly,
they are dismissed to a serener life and a nobler probation. Who has not pitied the ravings
of Lear and the agonies of Othello? The Gospel pities, but, by a magnificence of plot altogether
its own, by preserving, if we may so say, the unities of heaven and earth, it also saves.

THE RING FETTER.

A NEW ENGLAND TRAGEDY.

There are long stretches in the course of the Connecticut River, where its tranquil current
assumes the aspect of a lake, its sudden bends cut off the lovely reach of water, and its heavily
wooded banks lie silent and green, undisturbed, except by the shriek of the passing steamer,
casting golden-green reflections into the stream at twilight, and shadows of deepest blackness,
star-pierced, at remoter depths of night. Here, now and then, a stray gull from the sea sends
a flying throb of white light across the mirror below, or the sweeping wings of a hawk paint
their moth-like image on the blue surface, or a little flaw of wind shudders across the water
in a black ripple; but except for these casual stirs of Nature, all is still, oppressive, and
beautiful, as earth seems to the trance-sleeper on the brink of his grave.

In one of these reaches, though on either side the heavy woods sweep down to the shore and
hang over it as if deliberating whether to plunge in, on the eastern bank there is a tiny meadow
just behind the tree-fringe of the river, completely hedged in by the deep woods, and altogether
hidden from any inland road; nor would the traveller on the river discover it, except for the
chimney of a house that peers above the yellow willows and seems in that desolate seclusion
as startling as a daylight ghost. But this dwelling was built and deserted and weather-beaten
long before the date of our story. It had been erected and inhabited during the Revolution,
by an old Tory, who, foreseeing the result of the war better than some of his contemporaries,
and being unwilling to expose his person to the chances of battle or his effects to confiscation,
maintained a strict neutrality, and a secret trade with both parties; thereby welcoming peace
and independence, fully stocked with the dislike and suspicion of his neighbors, and a large
quantity of Continental "fairy-money." So, when Abner Dimock died, all he had to leave to his
only son was the red house on "Dimock's Meadow," and a ten-acre lot of woodland behind and
around the green plateau where the house stood. These possessions he strictly entailed on his
heirs forever, and nobody being sufficiently interested in its alienation to inquire into the
State laws concerning the validity of such an entail, the house remained in the possession
of the direct line, and in the year 18-- belonged to another Abner Dimock, who kept tavern
in Greenfield, a town of Western Massachusetts, and, like his father and grandfather before
him, had one only son. In the mean time, the old house in Haddam township had fallen into a
ruinous condition, and, as the farm was very small, and unprofitable chestnut-woodland at that,
the whole was leased to an old negro and his wife, who lived there in the most utter solitude,
scratching the soil for a few beans and potatoes, and in the autumn gathering nuts, or in the
spring roots for beer, with which Old Jake paddled up to Middletown, to bring home a return
freight of salt pork and rum.

The town of Greenfield, small though it was, and at the very top of a high hill, was yet the
county town, subject to annual incursions of lawyers, and such "thrilling incidents" as arise
from the location of a jail and a court-room within the limits of any village. The scenery
had a certain summer charm of utter quiet that did it good service with some healthy people
of well-regulated and insensitive tastes. From Greenfield Hill one looked away over a wide
stretch of rolling country; low hills, in long, desolate waves of pasturage and grain, relieved
here and there by a mass of black woodland, or a red farm-house and barns clustered against
a hill-side, just over a wooden spire in the shallow valley, about which were gathered a few
white houses, giving signs of life thrice a day in tiny threads of smoke rising from their
prim chimneys; and over all, the pallid skies of New England, where the sun wheeled his shorn
beams from east to west as coldly as if no tropic seas mirrored his more fervid glow thousands
of miles away, and the chilly moon beamed with irreproachable whiteness across the round gray
hills and the straggling pond, beloved of frogs and mud-turtles, that Greenfield held in honor
under the name of Squam Lake.

Perhaps it was the scenery, perhaps the air, possibly the cheapness of the place as far as
all the necessaries of life went, that tempted Judge Hyde to pitch his tent there, in the house
his fathers had built long ago, instead of wearing his judicial honors publicly, in the city
where he attained them; but, whatever the motive might be, certain it is that at the age of
forty he married a delicate beauty from Baltimore, and came to live on Greenfield Hill, in
the great white house with a gambrel roof and dormer windows, standing behind certain huge
maples, where Major Hyde and Parson Hyde and Deacon Hyde had all lived before him.

A brief Northern summer bloomed gayly enough for Adelaide Howard Hyde when she made her bridal
tour to her new home; and cold as she found the aspect of that house, with its formal mahogany
chairs, high-backed, and carved in grim festoons and ovals of incessant repetition,--its penitential
couch of a sofa, where only the iron spine of a Revolutionary heroine could have found rest,--its
pinched, starved, and double-starched portraits of defunct Hydes, Puritanic to the very ends
of toupet and periwig,--little Mrs. Hyde was deep enough in love with her tall and handsome
husband to overlook the upholstery of a home he glorified, and to care little for comfort elsewhere,
so long as she could nestle on his knee and rest her curly head against his shoulder. Besides,
flowers grew, even in Greenfield; there were damask roses and old-fashioned lilies enough in
the square garden to have furnished a whole century of poets with similes; and in the posy-bed
under the front windows were tulips of Chinese awkwardness and splendor, beds of pinks spicy
as all Arabia, blue hyacinths heavy with sweetness as well as bells, "pi'nies" rubicund and
rank, hearts-ease clustered against the house, and sticky rose-acacias, pretty and impracticable,
not to mention the grenadier files of hollyhocks that contended with fennel-bushes and scarlet-flowered
beans for the precedence, and the hosts of wild flowers that bloomed by wood-edges and pond-shores
wherever corn or potatoes spared a foot of soil for the lovely weeds. So in Judge Hyde's frequent
absences, at court or conclave, hither and yon, (for the Judge was a political man,) it was
his pretty wife's chief amusement, when her delicate fingers ached with embroidery, or her
head spun with efforts to learn housekeeping from old Keery, the time-out-of-mind authority
in the Hyde family, a bad-humored, good-tempered old maid,--it was, indeed, the little Southerner's
only amusement,--to make the polish and mustiness of those dreary front-parlors gay and fragrant
with flowers; and though Judge Hyde's sense of the ridiculous was not remarkably keen, it was
too much to expect of him that he should do otherwise than laugh long and loud, when, suddenly
returning from Taunton one summer day, he tracked his wife by snatches of song into the "company
rooms," and found her on the floor, her hair about her ears, tying a thick garland of red peonies,
intended to decorate the picture of the original Hyde, a dreary old fellow, in bands, and grasping
a Bible in one wooden hand, while a distant view of Plymouth Bay and the Mayflower tried to
convince the spectator that he was transported, among other antediluvians, by that Noah's ark,
to the New World. On either hand hung the little Flora's great-grandmother-in-law, and her
great-grandfather accordingly, Mrs. Mehitable and Parson Job Hyde, peering out, one from a
bushy ornament of pink laurel-blossoms, and the other from an airy and delicate garland of
the wanton sweet-pea, each stony pair of eyes seeming to glare with Medusan intent at this
profaning of their state and dignity. "Isn't it charming, dear?" said the innocent little beauty,
with a satisfaction half doubtful, as her husband's laugh went on.

But for every butterfly there comes an end to summer. The flowers dropped from the frames and
died in the garden; a pitiless winter set in; and day after day the mittened and mufflered
schoolboy, dragging his sled through drifts of heavy snow to school, eyed curiously the wan,
wistful face of Judge Hyde's wife pressed up to the pane of the south window, its great restless
eyes and shadowy hair bringing to mind some captive bird that pines and beats against the cage.
Her husband absent from home long and often, full of affairs of "court and state,"--her delicate
organization, that lost its flickering vitality by every exposure to cold,--her lonely days
and nights,--the interminable sewing, that now, for her own reasons, she would trust to no
hands but her own,--conscious incapacity to be what all the women about her were, stirring,
active, hardy housekeepers,--a vague sense of shame, and a great dread of the future,--her
comfortless and motherless condition,--slowly, but surely, like frost, and wind, and rain,
and snow, beat on this frail blossom, and it went with the rest. June roses were laid against
her dark hair and in her fair hands, when she was carried to the lonely graveyard of Greenfield,
where mulleins and asters, golden-rod, blackberry-vines, and stunted yellow-pines adorned the
last sleep of the weary wife and mother; for she left behind her a week-old baby,--a girl,--wailing
prophetically in the square bedroom where its mother died.

Judge Hyde did not marry again, and he named his baby Mehitable. She grew up as a half-orphaned
child with an elderly and undemonstrative father would naturally grow,--shy, sensitive, timid,
and extremely grave. Her dress, thanks to Aunt Keery and the minister's wife, (who looked after
her for her mother's sake,) was always well provided and neat, but no way calculated to cultivate
her taste or to gratify the beholder. A district school provided her with such education as
it could give; and the library, that was her resort at all hours of the day, furthered her
knowledge in a singular and varied way, since its lightest contents were histories of all kinds
and sorts, unless one may call the English Classics lighter reading than Hume or Gibbon.

But at length the district-schoolma'am could teach Mehitable Hyde no more, and the Judge suddenly
discovered that he had a pretty daughter of fourteen, ignorant enough to shock his sense of
propriety, and delicate enough to make it useless to think of sending her away from home to
be buffeted in a boarding-school. Nothing was left for him but to undertake her education himself;
and having a theory that a thorough course of classics, both Greek and Latin, was the foundation
of all knowledge, half a score of dusty grammars were brought from the garret, and for two
hours every morning and afternoon little Miss Hitty worried her innocent soul over conjugations
and declensions and particles, as perseveringly as any professor could have desired. But the
dreadful part of the lessons to Hitty was the recitation after tea; no matter how well she
knew every inflection of a verb, every termination of a noun, her father's cold, gray eye,
fixed on her for an answer, dispelled all kinds of knowledge, and, for at least a week, every
lesson ended in tears. However, there are alleviations to everything in life; and when the
child was sent to the garret after her school-books, she discovered another set, more effectual
teachers to her than Sallust or the "Graeca Minora," even the twelve volumes of "Sir Charles
Grandison," and the fewer but no less absorbing tomes of "Clarissa Harlowe"; and every hour
she could contrive not to be missed by Keery or her father was spent in that old garret, fragrant
as it was with sheaves of all the herbs that grow in field or forest, poring over those old
novels, that were her society, her friends, her world.

So two years passed by. Mehitable grew tall and learned, but knew little more of the outside
world than ever; her father had learned to love her, and taught her to adore him; still shy
and timid, the village offered no temptation to her, so far as society went; and Judge Hyde
was beginning to feel that for his child's mental health some freer atmosphere was fast becoming
necessary, when a relentless writ was served upon the Judge himself, and one that no man could
evade; paralysis smote him, and the strong man lay prostrate,--became bedridden.

Now the question of life seemed settled for Hitty; her father admitted no nursing but hers.
Month after month rolled away, and the numb grasp gradually loosed its hold on flesh and sense,
but still Judge Hyde was bedridden. Year after year passed by, and no change for better or
worse ensued. Hitty's life was spent between the two parlors and the kitchen; for the room
her dead mother had so decorated was now furnished as a bedroom for her father's use; and her
own possessions had been removed into the sitting-room next it, that, sleeping or waking, she
might be within call. All the family portraits held a conclave in the other front-parlor, and
its north and east windows were shut all the year, save on some sultry summer day when Keery
flung them open to dispel damp and must, and the school-children stared in reverentially, and
wondered why old Madam Hyde's eyes followed them as far as they could see. Visitors came now
and then to the kitchen-door, and usurped Keery's flag-bottomed chair, while they gossiped
with her about village affairs; now and then a friendly spinster with a budget of good advice
called Hitty away from her post, and, after an hour's vain effort to get any news worth retailing
about the Judge from those pale lips, retired full of disappointed curiosity to tell how stiff
that Mehitable Hyde was, and how hard it was to make her speak a word to one! Friends were
what Hitty read of in the "Spectator," and longed to have; but she knew none of the Greenfield
girls since she left school, and the only companion she had was Keery, rough as the east wind,
but genuine and kind-hearted,--better at counsel than consolation, and no way adapted to fill
the vacant place in Hitty's heart.

So the years wore away, and Miss Hyde's early beauty went with them. She had been a blooming,
delicate girl,--the slight grace of a daisy in her figure, wild-rose tints on her fair cheek,
and golden reflections in her light brown hair, that shone in its waves and curls like lost
sunshine; but ten years of such service told their story plainly. When Hitty Hyde was twenty-six,
her blue eyes were full of sorrow and patience, when the shy lids let their legend be read;
the little mouth had become pale, and the corners drooped; her cheek, too, was tintless, though
yet round; nothing but the beautiful hair lasted; even grace was gone, so long had she stooped
over her father. Sometimes the unwakened heart within her dreamed, as a girl's heart will.
Stately visions of Sir Charles Grandison bowing before her,--shuddering fascinations over the
image of that dreadful Lovelace,--nothing more real haunted Hitty's imagination. She knew what
she had to do in life,--that it was not to be a happy wife or mother, but to waste by a bedridden
old man, the only creature on earth she loved as she could love. Light and air were denied
the plant, but it grew in darkness,--blanched and unblooming, it is true, but still a growth
upward, toward light.

Ten years more of monotonous patience, and Miss Hyde was thirty-six. Her hair had thinned,
and was full of silver threads; a wrinkle invaded either cheek, and she was angular and bony;
but something painfully sweet lingered in her face, and a certain childlike innocence of expression
gave her the air of a nun; the world had never touched nor taught her.

But now Judge Hyde was dead; nineteen years of petulant, helpless, hopeless wretchedness were
at last over, and all that his daughter cared to live for was gone; she was an orphan, without
near relatives, without friends, old, and tired out. Do not despise me that I say "old," you
plump and rosy ladies whose life is in its prime of joy and use at thirty-six. Age is not counted
by years, nor calculated from one's birth; it is a fact of wear and work, altogether unconnected
with the calendar. I have seen a girl of sixteen older than you are at forty. I have known
others disgrace themselves at sixty-five by liking to play with children and eat sugar-plums!

One kind of youth still remained to Hitty Hyde,--the freshness of inexperience. Her soul was
as guileless and as ignorant as a child's; and she was stranded on life, with a large fortune,
like a helmless ship, heavily loaded, that breaks from its anchor, and drives headlong upon a reef.

Now it happened, that, within a year after Judge Hyde's death, Abner Dimock, the tavern-keeper's
son, returned to Greenfield, after years of absence, a bold-faced, handsome man, well-dressed
and "free-handed," as the Greenfield vernacular hath it. Nobody knew where Abner Dimock had
spent the last fifteen years; neither did anybody know anything against him; yet he had no
good reputation in Greenfield. Everybody looked wise and grave when his name was spoken, and
no Greenfield girl cared to own him for an acquaintance. His father welcomed him home with
more surprise than pleasure; and the whole household of the Greenfield Hotel, as Dimock's Inn
was new-named, learned to get out of Abner Dimock's way, and obey his eye, as if he were more
their master than his father.

Left quite alone, without occupation or amusement, Miss Hyde naturally grasped at anything
that came in her way to do or to see to; the lawyer who had been executor of her father's will
had settled the estate and gone back to his home, and Miss Hyde went with him, the first journey
of her life, that she might select a monument for her father's grave. It was now near a year
since Judge Hyde's death, and the monument was on its way from Boston; the elder Dimock monopolized
the cartage of freight as well as passengers to the next town, and to him Miss Hyde intrusted
the care of the great granite pillar she had purchased; and it was for his father that Abner
Dimock called on the young lady for directions as to the disposal of the tombstone just arrived.
Hitty was in the garden; her white morning-dress shone among the roses, and the morning air
had flushed her pale cheek; she looked fair and delicate and gracious; but her helpless ignorance
of the world's ways and usages attracted the world-hardened man more than her face. He had
not spent a roue life in a great city for nothing; he had lived enough with gentlemen, broken-down
and lost, it is true, but well-bred, to be able to ape their manners; and the devil's instinct
that such people possess warned him of Hitty Hyde's weakest points. So, too, he contrived to
make that first errand lead to another, and still another,--to make the solitary woman depend
on his help, and expect his coming; fifty thousand dollars, with no more incumbrance than such
a woman, was worth scheming for, and the prey was easily snared.

It is not to be expected that any country village of two streets, much less Greenfield, could
long remain ignorant of such a new and amazing phase as the devotion of any man to any woman
therein; but, as nobody liked to interfere too soon in what might only be, after all, a mere
business arrangement, Greenfield contented itself with using its eyes, its ears, and its tongues,
with one exception to the latter organ's clatter, in favor of Hitty Hyde; to her no one dared
as yet approach with gossip or advice.

In the mean time Hitty went on her way, all regardless of the seraphs at the gate. Abner Dimock
was handsome, agreeable, gentlemanly to a certain lackered extent;--who had cared for Hitty,
in all her life, enough to aid and counsel her as he had already done? At first she was half
afraid of him; then she liked him; then he was "so good to me!" and then--she pitied him! for
he told her, sitting on that hard old sofa, in the June twilight, how he had no mother, how
he had been cast upon the charities of a cruel and evil world from his infancy; reminded her
of the old red school-house where they had been to school together, and the tyranny of the
big boys over him,--a little curly, motherless boy. So he enlarged upon his life; talked a
mildly bitter misanthropy; informed Miss Hyde by gradual insinuations that she was an angel
sent on earth to console and reform a poor sinner like him; and before the last September rose
had droped, so far had Abner Dimock succeeded in his engineering, that his angel was astounded
one night by the undeniably terrestrial visitation of an embrace and a respectfully fervid kiss.

Perhaps it would have been funny, perhaps pathetic, to analyze the mixed consternation and
delight of Mehitable Hyde at such bona-fide evidence of a lover. Poor woman's heart!--altogether
solitary and desolate,--starved of its youth and its joy,--given over to the chilly reign of
patience and resignation,--afraid of life,--without strength, or hope, or pleasure,--and all
at once Paradise dawns!--her cold, innocent life bursts into fiery and odorous bloom; she has
found her fate, and its face is keen with splendor, like a young angel's. Poor, deluded, blessed,
rapture-smitten woman!

Blame her as you will, indignant maidens of Greenfield, Miss Flint, and Miss Sharp, and Miss
Skinner! You may have had ten lovers and twenty flirtations apiece, and refused half-a-dozen
good matches for the best of reasons; you, no doubt, would have known better than to marry
a man who was a villain from his very physiognomy; but my heart must needs grow tender toward
Miss Hyde; a great joy is as pathetic as a sorrow. Did you never cry over a doting old man?

But when Mrs. Smith's son John, a youth of ten, saw, by the light of an incautious lamp that
illuminated a part of the south parlor, a good-night kiss bestowed upon the departing Abner
by Miss Hitty Hyde and absolutely returned by said Abner, and when John told his mother, and
his mother revealed it to Miss Flint, Miss Flint to Miss Skinner, and so forth, and so on,
till it reached the minister's wife, great was the uproar in Greenfield; and the Reverend Mrs.
Perkins put on her gray bonnet and went over to remonstrate with Hitty on the spot.

Whether people will ever learn the uselessness of such efforts is yet a matter for prophecy.
Miss Hyde heard all that was said, and replied very quietly, "I don't believe it." And as Mrs.
Perkins had no tangible proofs of Abner Dimock's unfitness to marry Judge Hyde's daughter,
the lady in question got the better of her adviser, so far as any argument was concerned, and
effectually put an end to remonstrance by declaring with extreme quiet and unblushing front,--

"I am going to marry him next week. Will you be so good as to notify Mr. Perkins?"

Mrs. Perkins held up both hands and cried. Words might have hardened Hitty; but what woman
that was not half tigress ever withstood another woman's tears?

Hitty's heart melted directly; she sat down by Mrs. Perkins, and cried, too.

"Please, don't be vexed with me," sobbed she. "I love him, Mrs. Perkins, and I haven't got
anybody else to love,--and--and--I never shall have. He's very good to love me,--I am so old
and homely."

"Very good!" exclaimed Mrs. Perkins, in great wrath, "good! to marry Judge Hyde's daughter,
and--fifty thousand dollars," Mrs. Perkins bit off. She would not put such thoughts into Hitty's
head, since her marriage was inevitable.

"At any rate," sighed Hitty, on the breath of a long-drawn sob, "nobody else ever loved me,
if I am Judge Hyde's daughter."

So Mrs. Perkins went away, and declared that things had gone too far to be prevented; and Abner
Dimock came on her retreating steps, and Hitty forgot everything but that he loved her; and
the next week they were married.

Here, by every law of custom, ought my weary pen to fall flat and refuse its office; for it
is here that the fate of every heroine culminates. For what are women born but to be married?
Old maids are excrescences in the social system,--disagreeable utilities,--persons who have
failed to fulfil their destiny,--and of whom it should have been said, rather than of ghosts,
that they are always in the wrong. But life, with pertinacious facts, is too apt to transcend
custom and the usage of novel-writers; and though the one brings a woman's legal existence
to an end when she merges her independence in that of a man, and the other curtails her historic
existence at the same point, because the novelist's catechism hath for its preface this creed,--"The
chief end of woman is to get married"; still, neither law nor novelists altogether displace
this same persistent fact, and a woman lives, in all capacities of suffering and happiness,
not only her wonted, but a double life, when legally and religiously she binds herself with
bond and vow to another soul.

Happy would it have been for Hitty Hyde, if with the legal fiction had chimed the actual existent
fact!--happy indeed for Abner Dimock's wife to have laid her new joy down at the altar, and
been carried to sleep by her mother under the mulleins and golden-rods on Greenfield Hill!
Scarce was the allotted period of rapture past half its term, scarce had she learned to phrase
the tender words aloud that her heart beat and choked with, before Abner Dimock began to tire
of his incumbrance, and to invent plans and excuses for absence; for he dared not openly declare
as yet that he left his patient, innocent wife for such scenes of vice and reckless dissipation
as she had not even dreamed could exist.

Yet for week after week he lingered away from Greenfield; even months rolled by, and, except
for rare and brief visits home, Hitty saw no more of her husband than if he were not hers.
She lapsed into her old solitude, varied only by the mutterings and grumblings of old Keery,
who had lifted up her voice against Hitty's marriage with more noise and less effect than Mrs.
Perkins, and, though she still staid by her old home and haunts, revenged herself on fate in
general and her mistress in particular by a continual course of sulking, all the time hiding
under this general quarrel with life a heart that ached with the purest tenderness and pity.
So some people are made, like chestnuts; one gets so scratched and wounded in the mere attempt
to get at the kernel within, that it becomes matter of question whether one does not suffer
less from wanting their affection than from trying to obtain it. Yet Hitty Dimock had too little
love given her to throw away even Keery's habit of kindness to her, and bore with her snaps
and snarls as meekly as a saint,--sustained, it is true, by a hope that now began to solace
and to occupy her, and to raise in her oppressed soul some glimmer of a bright possibility,
a faint expectation that she might yet regain her husband's love, a passion which she began
in her secret heart to fear had found its limit and died out. Still, Hitty, out of her meek,
self-distrusting spirit, never blamed Abner Dimock for his absence or his coldness; rather,
with the divine unselfishness that such women manifest, did she blame herself for having linked
his handsome and athletic prime with her faded age, and struggle daily with the morbid conscience
that accused her of having forgotten his best good in the indulgence of her own selfish ends
of happiness. She still thought, "He is so good to me!" still idealized the villain to a hero,
and, like her kind, predestined to be the prey and the accusing angel of such men, prayed for
and adored her husband as if he had been the best and tenderest of gentlemen. Providence has
its mysteries; but if there be one that taxes faith and staggers patience more than another,
it is the long misery that makes a good woman cringe and writhe and agonize in silence under
the utter rule and life-long sovereignty of a bad man. Perhaps such women do not suffer as
we fancy; for after much trial every woman learns that it is possible to love where neither
respect nor admiration can find foothold,--that it even becomes necessary to love some men,
as the angels love us all, from an untroubled height of pity and tenderness, that, while it
sees and condemns the sin and folly and uncleanness of its object, yet broods over it with
an all-shielding devotion, laboring and beseeching and waiting for its regeneration, upheld
above the depths of suffering and regret by the immortal power of a love so fervent, so pure,
so self-forgetting, that it will be a millstone about the necks that disregard its tender clasping
now, to sink them into a bottomless abyss in the day of the Lord.

Now had one long and not unhappy autumn, a lingering winter, a desolate spring, a weary summer,
passed away, and from an all-unconscious and protracted wrestling with death Hitty Dimock awoke
to find her hope fulfilled,--a fair baby nestled on her arm, and her husband, not all-insensible,
smiling beside her.

It is true, that, had she died then, Abner Dimock would have regretted her death; for, by certain
provisions of her father's will, in case of her death, the real estate, otherwise at her own
disposal, became a trust for her child or children, and such a contingency ill suited Mr. Dimock's
plans. So long as Hitty held a rood of land or a coin of silver at her own disposal, it was
also at his; but trustees are not women, happily for the world at large, and the contemplation
of that fact brought Hitty Hyde's husband into a state of mind well fitted to give him real
joy at her recovery.

So, for a little while, the sun shone on this bare New England hill-side, into this grim old
house. Care and kindness were lavished on the delicate woman, who would scarce have needed
either in her present delight; every luxury that could add to her slowly increasing strength,
every attention that could quiet her fluttering and unstrung nerves, was showered on her, and
for a time her brightest hopes seemed all to have found fruition.

As she recovered and was restored to strength, of course these cares ceased. But now the new
instincts of motherhood absorbed her, and, brooding over the rosy child that was her own, caressing
its waking, or hanging above its sleep, she scarce noted that her husband's absences from home
grew more and more frequent, that strange visitors asked for him, that he came home at midnight
oftener than at dusk. Nor was it till her child was near a year old that Hitty discovered her
husband's old and rewakened propensity,--that Abner Dimock came home drunk,--not drunk as many
men are, foolish and helpless, mere beasts of the field, who know nothing and care for nothing
but the filling of their insatiable appetite;--this man's nature was too hard, too iron in
its moulding, to give way to temporary imbecility; liquor made him savage, fierce, brutal,
excited his fiendish temper to its height, nerved his muscular system, inflamed his brain,
and gave him the aspect of a devil; and in such guise he entered his wife's peaceful Eden,
where she brooded and cooed over her child's slumbers, with one gripe of his hard hand lifted
her from her chair, kicked the cradle before him, and, with an awful though muttered oath,
thrust mother and child into the entry, locked the door upon them, and fell upon the bed to
sleep away his carouse.

Here was an undeniable fact before Hitty Dimock, one she could no way evade or gloss over;
no gradual lesson, no shadow of foreboding, preluded the revelation; her husband was unmistakably,
savagely drunk. She did not sit down and cry;--drearily she gathered her baby in her arms,
hushed it to sleep with kisses, passed down into the kitchen, woke up the brands of the ash-hidden
fire to a flame, laid on more wood, and, dragging old Keery's rush-bottomed chair in front
of the blaze, held her baby in her arms till morning broke, careless of anything without or
within but her child's sleep and her husband's drunkenness. Long and sadly in that desolate
night did she revolve this new misery in her mind; the fact was face to face, and must be provided
for,--but how to do it? What could she do, poor weak woman, even to conceal this disgrace,
much more to check it? Long since she had discovered that between her and her husband there
was no community of tastes or interests; he never talked to her, he never read to her, she
did not know that he read at all; the garden he disliked as a useless trouble; he would not
drive, except such a gay horse that Hitty dared not risk her neck behind it, and felt a shudder
of fear assail her whenever his gig left the door; neither did he care for his child. Nothing
at home could keep him from his pursuits; that she well knew; and, hopeful as she tried to
be, the future spread out far away in misty horror and dread. What might not, become of her
boy, with such a father's influence? was her first thought;--nay, who could tell but in some
fury of drink he might kill or maim him? A chill of horror crept over Hitty at the thought,--and
then, what had not she to dread? Oh, for some loophole of escape, some way to fly, some refuge
for her baby's innocent life! No,--no,--no! She was his wife; she had married him; she had
vowed to love and honor and obey,--vow of fearful import now, though uttered in all pureness
and truth, as to a man who owned her whole heart! Love him!--that was not the dread; love was
as much her life as her breath was; she knew no interval of loving for the brute fiend who
mocked her with the name of husband; no change or chance could alienate her divine tenderness,--even
as the pitiful blue sky above hangs stainless over reeking battle-fields and pest-smitten cities,
piercing with its sad and holy star-eyes down into the hellish orgies of men, untouched and
unchanged by just or unjust, forever shining and forever pure. But honor him! could that be
done? What respect or trust was it possible to keep for a self-degraded man like that? And
where honor goes down, obedience is sucked into the vortex, and the wreck flies far over the
lonely sea, historic and prophetic to ship and shore.

No! there was nothing to do! her vow was taken, past the power of man to break; nothing now
remained but endurance. Perhaps another woman, with a strong will and vivid intellect, might
have set herself to work, backed by that very vow that defied poor Hitty, and, by sheer resolution,
have dragged her husband up from the gulf and saved him, though as by fire; or a more buoyant
and younger wife might have passed it by as a first offence, hopeful of its being also the
only one. But an instinctive knowledge of the man bereft Hitty of any such hope; she knew it
was not the first time; from his own revelations and penitent confessions while she was yet
free, she knew he had sinned as well as suffered, and the past augured the future. Nothing
was left her, she could not escape, she must shut her eyes and her mouth, and only keep out
of his way as far as she could. So she clasped her child more tightly, and, closing her heavy
eyes, rocked back and forth till the half-waked boy slept again; and there old Keery found
her mistress, in the morning, white as the cold drifts without, and a depth of settled agony
in her quiet eyes that dimmed the old woman's only to look at.

Neither spoke; nor when her husband strode into the breakfast-room and took his usual place,
sober enough, but scarcely regretful of the over-night development, did any word of reproach
or allusion pass the wife's white lips. A stranger would have thought her careless and cold.
Abner Dimock knew that she was heartbroken; but what was that to him? Women live for years
without that organ; and while she lived, so long as a cent remained of the Hyde estate, what
was it to him if she pined away? She could not leave him; she was utterly in his power; she
was his,--like his boots, his gun, his dog; and till he should tire of her and fling her into
some lonely chamber to waste and die, she was bound to serve him; he was safe.

And she offered no sort of barrier to his full indulgence of his will to drink. Had she lifted
one of her slender fingers in warning, or given him a look of reproachful meaning, or uttered
one cry of entreaty, at least the conscience within him might have visited him with a temporary
shame, and restrained the raging propensity for a longer interval; but seeing her apparent
apathy, knowing how timid and unresisting was her nature,--that nothing on earth will lie still
and be trodden on but a woman,--Abner Dimock rioted and revelled to his full pleasure, while
all his pale and speechless wife could do was to watch with fearful eyes and straining ears
for his coming, and slink out of the way with her child, lest both should be beaten as well
as cursed; for faithful old Keery, once daring to face him with a volley of reproaches from
her shrill tongue, was levelled to the floor by a blow from his rapid hand, and bore bruises
for weeks that warned her from interference. Not long, however, was there danger of her meddling.
When the baby was a year and a half old. Keery, in her out-door labors,--now grown burdensome
enough, since Mr. Dimock neither worked himself nor allowed a man on the premises,--Keery took
a heavy cold, and, worn out with a life of hard work, sank into rest quickly, her last act
of life being to draw Hitty's face down to her own, wrinkled and wan as it was, scarce so old
in expression as her mistress's, and with one long kiss and sob speak the foreboding and anxious
farewell she could not utter.

"Only you now!" whispered Hitty to her child, as Keery's peaceful, shrouded face was hidden
under the coffin-lid and carried away to Greenfield Hill. Pitiful whisper! happily all-unmeaning
to the child, but full of desolation to the mother, floating with but one tiny plank amid the
wild wrecks of a midnight ocean, and clinging as only the desperate can cling to this vague
chance of life.

A rough, half-crazed girl, brought from the alms-house, now did the drudgery of the family.
Abner Dimock had grown penurious, and not one cent of money was given for comfort in that house,
scarce for need. The girl was stupid and rude, but she worked for her board,--recommendation
enough in Mr. Dimock's eyes; and so hard work was added to the other burdens loaded upon his
silent wife. And soon came another, all-mysterious, but from its very mystery a deeper fear.
Abner Dimock began to stay at home, to be visited at late hours by one or two men whose faces
were full of evil and daring; and when, in the dead of the long nights, Hitty woke from her
broken and feverish sleep, it was to hear muffled sounds from the cellar below, never heard
there before; and once, wrapping a shawl about her, she stole down the stairways with bare
feet, and saw streams of red light through the chinks of the cellar-door, and heard the ring
of metal, and muttered oaths, all carefully dulled by such devices as kept the sounds from
chance passers in the street, though vain as far as the inhabitants of the house itself were
concerned. Trembling and cold, she stole back to her bed, full of doubts and fears, neither
of which she dared whisper to any one, or would have dared, had she possessed a single friend
to whom she could speak. Troubles thickened fast over Hitty; her husband was always at home
now, and rarely sober; the relief his absences had been was denied her entirely; and in some
sunny corner of the uninhabited rooms up-stairs she spent her days, toiling at such sewing
as was needful, and silent as the dead, save as her life appealed to God from the ground, and
called down the curse of Cain upon a head she would have shielded from evil with her own life.

Keen human legislation! sightless justice of men!--one drunken wretch smites another in a midnight
brawl, and sends a soul to its account with one sharp shudder of passion and despair, and the
maddened creature that remains on earth suffers the penalty of the law. Every sense sobered
from its reeling fury, weeks of terribly expectation heaped upon the cringing soul, and, in
full consciousness, that murderer is strangled before men and angels, because he was drunk!--necessary
enough, one perceives, to the good of society, which thereby loses two worse than useless members;
but what, in the name of God's justice, should His vicegerent, law, visit upon the man who
wrings another life away by slow tortures, and torments heart and soul and flesh for lingering
years, where the victim is passive and tenacious, and dies only after long-drawn anguish that
might fill the cup of a hundred sudden deaths? Yet what escapes the vicegerent shall the King
himself visit and judge. "For He cometh!

Six months passed after Keery's death, and now from the heights of Greenfield and her sunny
window Hitty Dimock's white face looked out upon a landscape of sudden glory; for October,
the gold-bringer, had come, pouring splendor over the earth, and far and wide the forests blazed;
scarlet and green maples, with erect heads, sentinelled the street, gay lifeguards of autumn;
through dark green cedars the crimson creeper threaded its sprays of blood-red; birches, gilded
to their tops, swayed to every wind, and drooped their graceful boughs earthward to shower
the mossy sward with glittering leaves; heavy oaks turned purple-crimson through their wide-spread
boughs; and the stately chestnuts, with foliage of tawny yellow, opened wide their stinging
husks to let the nuts fall for squirrel and blue-jay. Splendid sadness clothed all the world,
opal-hued mists wandered up and down the valleys or lingered about the undefined horizon, and
the leaf-scented south wind sighed in the still noon with foreboding gentleness.

One day, Abner Dimock was gone, and Hitty stole down to the garden-door with her little child,
now just trying to walk, that he might have a little play on the green turf, and she cool her
hot eyes and lips in the air. As she sat there watching the pretty clumsiness of her boy, and
springing forward to intercept his falls, the influence of sun and air, the playful joy of
the child, the soothing stillness of all Nature, stole into her heart till it dreamed a dream
of hope. Perhaps the budding blossom of promise might become floral and fruitful; perhaps her
child might yet atone for the agony of the past;--a time might come when she should sit in
that door, white-haired and trembling with age, but as peaceful as the autumn day, watching
the sports of his children, while his strong arm sustained her into the valley of shadow, and
his tender eyes lit the way.

As she sat dreaming, suddenly a figure intercepted the sunshine, and, looking up, she saw Abner
Dimock's father, the elder Abner, entering the little wicket-gate of the garden. A strange,
tottering old figure, his nose and chin grimacing at each other, his bleared eyes telling unmistakable
truths of cider-brandy and New England rum, his scant locks of white lying in confusion over
his wrinkled forehead and cheeks, his whole air squalid, hopeless, and degraded,--not so much
by the poverty of vice as by its demoralizing stamp penetrating from the inner to the outer
man, and levelling it even below the plane of brutes that perish.

"Good-day! good-day!" said he to his son's wife, in a squeaking, tremulous tone, that drove
the child to his mother's arms,--"Abner to home?"

"No, Sir," said Hitty, with an involuntary shudder, that did not escape the bleared blue eye
that fixed its watery gaze upon her.

"Cold, a'n't ye? Better go in, better go in! Come, come along! How d'e do, little feller? don't
know yer grandper, hey?"

The child met his advances with an ominous scream, and Hitty hurried into the house to give
him to the servant's charge, while she returned to the sitting-room, where the old man had
seated himself in the rocking-chair, and was taking a mental inventory of the goods and chattels
with a momentary keenness in his look that no way reassured Hitty's apprehensive heart.

"So, Abner a'n't to home?"

"No, Sir."

"Don't know where he's gone, do ye?"

"No, Sir."

"Don't never know where he goes, I expect?"

"No, Sir."

"Well, when he comes home,--know when he's a-comin' home?"

"No, Sir."

"Well, when he doos, you tell him 't some folks come to the tavern last night, 'n' talked pretty
loud, 'n' I heerd--Guess 'ta'n't best, though, to tell what I heerd. Only you tell Abner 't
I come here, and I said he'd better be a-joggin'. He'll know, he'll know,--h'm, yes," said
the old man, passing his hand across his thin blue lips, as if to drive away other words better
left unsaid,--and then rising from his seat, by the aid of either arm, gained his balance,
and went on, while he fumbled for his stick:--

"I'd ha' writ, but black and white's a hangin' matter sometimes, 'n' words a'n't; 'n' I hadn't
nobody to send, so I crawled along. Don't ye forget now! don't ye! It's a pretty consider'ble
piece o' business; 'n' you'll be dreffully on't, ef you do forget. Now don't ye forget!"

"No, I won't," said Hitty, trembling as she spoke; for the old man's words had showed her a
depth of dreadful possibility, and an old acquaintance with crime and its manoeuvres, that
chilled the blood in her veins. She watched him out of the gate with a sickening sense of terror
at her heart, and turned slowly into the house, revolving all kinds of plans in her head for
her husband's escape, should her fears prove true. Of herself she did not think; no law could
harm her child; but, even after years of brutality and neglect, her faithful affection turned
with all its provident thoughtfulness and care at once to her husband; all her wrongs were
forgotten, all her sorrows obliterated by this one fear. Well did St. Augustine say, "God is
patient because He is eternal": but better and truer would the saying have been, had it run,
"God is patient because He is love": a gospel that He publishes in the lives of saints on earth,
in their daily and hourly "anguish of patience," preaching to the fearful souls that dare not
trust His long-suffering by the tenacious love of those who bear His image, saying, in resistless
human tones, "Shall one creature endure and love and continually forgive another, and shall
I, who am not loving, but Love, be weary of thy transgressions, O sinner?" And so does the
silent and despairing life of many a woman weave unconsciously its golden garland of reward
in the heavens above, and do the Lord's work in a strange land where it cannot sing His songs.

The day crept toward sunset, and Hitty sat with her wan face pressed to the window-pane, hushing
her child in his cradle with one of those low, monotoned murmurs that mothers know; but still
her husband did not come. The level sun-rays pierced the woods into more vivid splendor, burnished
gold fringed the heavy purple clouds in the west, and warm crimson lights turned the purple
into more triumphant glory; the sun set, unstained with mist or tempest, behind those blue
and lonely hills that guard old Berkshire with their rolling summits, and night came fast,
steel-blue and thick with stars; but yet he did not come, the untouched meal on the table was
untouched still. Hour after hour of starry darkness crept by, and she sat watching at the window-pane;
overhead, constellations marched across the heavens in relentless splendor, careless of man
or sorrow; Orion glittered in the east, and climbed toward the zenith; the Pleiades clustered
and sparkled as if they missed their lost sister no more; the Hyades marked the celestial pastures
of Taurus, and Lyra strung her chords with fire. Hitty rested her weary head against the window-frame
and sent her wearier thoughts upward to the stars; there were the points of light that the
Chaldeans watched upon their plains by night, and named with mystic syllables of their weird
Oriental tongue,--names that in her girlhood she had delighted to learn, charmed by that nameless
spell that language holds, wherewith it plants itself ineradicably in the human mind, and binds
it with fetters of vague association that time and chance are all-powerless to break,--Zubeneschamali
and Zubenelgunebi, Bellatrix and Betelguese, sonorous of Rome and Asia both, full of old echoes
and the dry resonant air of Eastern plains,--names wherein sounded the clash of Bellona's armor,
and the harsh stir of palm-boughs rustled by a hot wind of the desert, and vibrant with the
dying clangor of gongs, and shouts of worshipping crowds reverberating through horrid temples
of grinning and ghastly idols, wet with children's blood.

Far, far away, the heavenly procession and their well-remembered names had led poor Hitty's
thoughts; worn out with anxiety, and faint for want of the food she had forgotten to take,
sleep crept upon her, and her first consciousness of its presence was the awakening grasp of
a rough hand and the hoarse whisper of her husband.

"Get up!" said he. "Pick up your brat, get your shawl, and come!"

Hitty rose quickly to her feet. One faculty wretchedness gives, the power of sudden self-possession,--and
Hitty was broad awake in the very instant she was called. Her husband stood beside her, holding
a lantern; her boy slept in the cradle at her feet.

"Have you seen your father?" said she, with quick instinct.

"Yes, d--n you, be quick! do you want to hang me?"

Quick as a spirit Hitty snatched her child, and wrapped him in the blanket where he lay; her
shawl was on the chair she had slept in, her hood upon a nail by the door, and flinging both
on, with the child in her arms, she followed her husband down-stairs, across the back-yard,
hitting her feet against stones and logs in the darkness, stumbling often, but never falling,
till the shadow of the trees was past, and the starlight showed her that they were traversing
the open fields, now crisp with frost, but even to the tread,--over two or three of these,
through a pine-wood that was a landmark to Hitty, for she well knew that it lay between the
turnpike-road and another, less frequented, that by various windings went toward the Connecticut
Hue,--then over a tiny brook on its unsteady bridge of logs, and out into a lane, where a rough-spoken
man was waiting for them, at the head of a strong horse harnessed to one of those wagons without
springs that New-Englanders like to make themselves uncomfortable in. Her husband turned to
her abruptly.

"Get in," said he; "get in behind; there's hay enough; and don't breathe loud, or I'll murder you!"

She clambered into the wagon and seated herself on the hay, hushing her child, who nestled
and moaned in her arms, though she had carried him with all possible care. A sharp cut of the
whip sent the powerful horse off at full speed, and soon this ill-matched party were fast traversing
the narrow road that wound about the country for the use of every farm within a mile of its
necessary course, a course tending toward the Connecticut.

Hour after hour crept by. Worn out with fatigue, poor Hitty dozed and fell back on the soft
hay; her child slept, too, and all her troubles faded away in heavy unconsciousness, till she
was again awakened by her husband's grasp, to find that dawn was gathering its light roseate
fleeces in the east, and that their flight was for the present stayed at the door of a tavern,
lonely and rude enough, but welcome to Hitty as a place of rest, if only for a moment. The
sullen mistress of the house asked no questions and offered no courtesy, but, after her guests
had eaten their breakfast, rapidly prepared, she led the way to a bedroom in the loft, where
Abner Dimock flung himself down upon the straw bed and fell sound asleep, leaving Hitty to
the undisturbed care of her child. And occupation enough that proved; for the little fellow
was fretful and excited, so that no hour for thought was left to his anxious and timid mother
till the dinner-bell awoke her husband and took him downstairs. She could not eat, but, begging
some milk for her boy, tended, and fed, and sung to him, till he slept; and then all the horrors
of the present and future thronged upon her, till her heart seemed to die in her breast, and
her limbs failed to support her when she would have dragged herself out of doors for one breath
of fresh air, one refreshing look at a world untroubled and serene.

So the afternoon crept away, and as soon as night drew on the journey was resumed. But this
night was chill with the breath of a sobbing east wind, and the dim stars foreboded rain. Hitty
shivered with bitter cold, and the boy began to cry. With a fierce curse Abner bade her stop
his disturbance, and again the poor mother had hands and heart full to silence the still recurring
sobs of the child. At last, after the midnight cocks had ceased to send their challenges from
farm to farm, after some remote church-clocks had clanged one stroke on the damp wind, they
began to pass through a large village; no lights burned in the windows, but white fences gleamed
through the darkness, and sharp gable ends loomed up against the dull sky, one after another,
and the horse's hoofs flashed sparks from the paved street before the church, that showed its
white spire, spectre-like, directly in their path. Here, by some evil chance, the child awoke,
and, between cold and hunger and fear, began one of those long and loud shrieks that no power
can stop this side of strangulation. In vain Hitty kissed, and coaxed, and half-choked her
boy, in hope to stop the uproar; still he screamed more and more loudly. Abner turned round
on his seat with an oath, snatched the child from its mother's arms, and rolled it closely
in the blanket.

"Hold on a minute, Ben!" said he to his companion; "this yelp must be stopped"; and stepping
over to the back of the wagon, he grasped his wife tightly with one arm, and with the other
dropped his child into the street. "Now drive, Ben," said he, in the same hoarse whisper,--"drive
like the Devil!"--for, as her child fell, Hitty shrieked with such a cry as only the heart
of a mother could send out over a newly-murdered infant. Shriek on shriek, fast and loud and
long, broke the slumbers of the village; nothing Abner could do, neither threat nor force,
short of absolute murder, would avail,--and there was too much real estate remaining of the
Hyde property for Abner Dimock to spare his wife yet. Ben drove fiend-fashion; but before they
passed the last house in the village, lights were glancing and windows grating as they were
opened. Years after, I heard the story of such a midnight cry borne past sleeping houses with
the quick rattle of wheels; but no one who heard it could give the right clue to its explanation,
and it dried into a legend.

Now Hitty Dimock became careless of good or evil, except one absorbing desire to get away from
her husband,--to search for her child, to know if it had lived or died. For four nights more
that journey was pursued at the height of their horse's speed; every day they stopped to rest,
and every day Hitty's half-delirious brain laid plans of escape, only to be balked by Abner
Dimock's vigilance; for if he slept, it was with both arms round her, and the slightest stir
awoke him,--and while he woke, not one propitious moment freed her from his watch. Her brain
began to reel with disappointment and anguish; she began to hate her husband; a band of iron
seemed strained about her forehead, and a ringing sound filled her ears; her lips grew parched,
and her eye glittered; the last night of their journey Abner Dimock lifted her into the wagon,
and she fainted on the hay.

"What in hell did you bring her for, Dimock?" growled his companion; "women are d----d plagues
always."

"She'll get up in a minute," coolly returned the husband; "can't afford to leave a goose that
lays golden eggs behind; hold on till I lift her up. Here, Hitty! drink, I tell you! drink!"

A swallow of raw spirit certainly drove away the faintness, but it brought fresh fire to the
fever that burned in her veins, and she was muttering in delirium before the end of that night's
journey brought them to a small village just above the old house on the river that figured
in the beginning of this history, and which we trust the patient reader has not forgotten.
Abner Dimock left his wife in charge of the old woman who kept the hovel of a tavern where
they stopped, and, giving Ben the horse to dispose of to some safe purchaser, after he had
driven him down to the old house, returned at night in the boat that belonged to his negro
tenant, and, taking his unconscious wife from her bed, rowed down the river and landed her
safely, to be carried from the skiff into an upper chamber of the old house, where Jake's wife,
Aunt Judy, as Mr. Dimock styled her, nursed the wretched woman through three weeks of fever,
and "doctored" her with herbs and roots.

The tenacious Hyde constitution, that was a proverb in Greenfield, conquered at last, and Hitty
became conscious, to find herself in a chamber whose plastered walls were crumbling away with
dampness and festooned with cobwebs, while the uncarpeted floor was checkered with green stains
of mildew, and the very old four-post bedstead on which she lay was fringed around the rickety
tester with rags of green moreen, mould-rotted.

Hitty sank back on her pillow with a sigh; she did not even question the old negress who sat
crooning over the fire, as to where she was, or what had befallen her; but accepted this new
place as only another misty delirium, and in her secret heart prayed, for the hundredth time,
to die.

Slowly she recovered; for prayers to die are the last prayers ever answered; we live against
our will, and tempt living deaths year after year, when soul and body cry out for the grave's
repose, and beat themselves against the inscrutable will of God only to fall down before it
in bruised and bleeding acquiescence. So she lived to find herself immured in this damp and
crumbling house, with no society but a drinking and crime-haunted husband, and the ignorant
negroes who served him,--society varied now and then by one or two men revolting enough in
speech and aspect to drive Hitty to her own room, where, in a creaking chair, she rocked monotonously
back and forth, watching the snapping fire, and dreaming dreams of a past that seemed now but
a visionary paradise.

For now it was winter, and the heavy drifts of snow that lay on Dimock's meadow forbade any
explorations which the one idea of finding her child might have driven her to make; and the
frozen surface of the river no white-sailed ship could traverse now, nor the hissing paddle-wheels
of a steamer break the silence with intimations of life, active and salient, far beyond the
lonely precinct of Abner Dimock's home.

So the winter passed by. The noises and lights that had awoke Hitty at midnight in the house
at Greenfield had become so far an institution in this lonely dwelling that now they disturbed
her sleep no more; for it was a received custom, that, whenever Abner Dimock's two visitors
should appear, the cellar should resound all night with heavy blows and clinking of metal,
and red light as from a forge streamed up through the doorway; but it disturbed Hitty no more;
apathy settled down in black mist on her soul, and she seemed to think, to care, for nothing.

But spring awoke the dead earth, and sleeping roots aroused with fresh forces from their torpor,
and sent up green signals to the birds above. A spark of light awoke in Hitty's eye; she planned
to get away, to steal the boat from its hidden cove in the bushes and push off down the friendly
current of the river,--anywhere away from him! anywhere! though it should be to wreck on the
great ocean, but still away from him! Night after night she rose from her bed to hazard the
attempt, but her heart failed, and her trembling limbs refused their aid. At length moonlight
came to her aid, and when all the house slept she stole downstairs with bare, noiseless feet,
and sped like a ghost across the meadow to the river-bank. Poor weak hands! vainly they fumbled
with the knotted rope that bound the skiff to a crooked elm over-hanging the water,--all in
vain for many lingering minutes; but presently the obdurate knot gave way, and, turning to
gather up her shawl, there, close behind her, so close that his hot breath seemed to sear her
cheek, stood her husband, clear in the moonlight, with a sneer on his face, and the lurid glow
of drunkenness, that made a savage brute of a bad man, gleaming in his deep-set eyes. Hitty
neither shrieked nor ran; despair nerved her,--despair turned her rigid before his face.

"Well," said he, "where are you going?"

"I am going away,--away from you,--anywhere in the world away from you!" answered she, with
the boldness of desperation.

"Ha, ha! going away from me!--that's a d--d good joke, a'n't it? Away from your husband! You
fool! you can't get away from me! you're mine, soul and body,--this world and the next! Don't
you know that? Where's your promise, eh?--'for better, for worse!'--and a'n't I worse, you
cursed fool, you? You didn't put on the handcuffs for nothing; heaven and hell can't get you
away from me as long as you've got on that little shiny fetter on your finger,--don't you know
that?"

The maddened woman made a quick wrench to pull away from him her left hand, which he held in
his, taunting her with the ring that symbolized their eternal bonds; but he was too quick for her.

"Hollo!" laughed he; "want to get rid of it, don't you? No, no! that won't do,--that won't
do! I'll make it safe!"

And lifting her like a child in his arms, he carried her across the meadow, back to the house,
and down a flight of crazy steps into the cellar, where a little forge was all ablaze with
white-hot coal, and the two ill-visaged men she well knew by sight were busy with sets of odd
tools and fragments of metal, while on a bench near by, and in the seat of an old chair, lay
piles of fresh coin. They were a gang of counterfeiters.

Abner Dimock thrust his wife into the chair, sweeping the gilt eagles to the floor as one of
the men angrily started up, demanding, with an oath, what he brought that woman there for to
hang them all.

"Be quiet, Bill, can't you?" interposed the other man. "Don't you see he's drunk? you'll have
the Devil to pay, if you cross a drunk Dimock!"

But Abner had not heard the first speaker; he was too much occupied with tying his wife's arms
to the chair,--a proceeding she could nowise interfere with, since his heavy foot was set upon
her dress so as to hold her own feet in helpless fixedness. He proceeded to take the ring from
her finger, and, searching through a box of various contents that stood in one corner, extracted
from it a delicate steel chain, finely wrought, but strong as steel can be; then, at the forge,
with sundry tools, carefully chosen and skilfully used, he soldered one end of the chain to
the ring, and, returning to his wife, placed it again upon her finger.

"Here, Bill," growled he, "where's that padlock off the tool-chest, eh? give it here! This
woman's a fool,--ha, ha, ha!--she wanted to get away from me, and she's my wife!"

Another peal of dissonant laughter interrupted the words.

"What a d----d good joke! I swear I haven't laughed before, this dog's age! And then she was
goin' to rid herself of the ring! as if that would help it! Why, there's the promise in black
and white,--'love, honor, and obey,'--'I take thee, Abner,'--ha, ha! that's good! But fast
bind, fast find; she a'n't going to get rid of the ring. I'll make it as tight as the promise;
both of 'em 'll last to doomsday. Give me the padlock, you scoundrel!"

Bill, the man he addressed, knew too much to hesitate after the savage look that sent home
the last words,--and, drawing from a bag of tools and dies a tiny padlock and key, he handed
them to Dimock, who passed the chain about Hitty's thin white wrist, and, fastening it with
the padlock, turned the key, and, withdrawing it from the lock, dropped it into the silvery
heat of the forge, and burst into a fit of laughter, so savage and so inhuman that the bearded
lips of his two comrades grew white with horror to hear the devil within so exult in his possession
of a man.

Hitty sat, statue-like, in her chair; stooping, the man unbound her, and she rose slowly and
steadily to her feet, looking him in the face.

"Look!" said she, raising her shackled arm high in air,--"I shall carry it to God!"--and so
fled, up the broken stairway, out into the moonlight, across the meadow,--the three men following
fast,--over the fallen boughs that winter had strewn along the shore, out under the crooked
elm, swift as light, poising on the stern of the boat, that had swung out toward the channel,--and
once more lifting her hand high into the white light, with one spring she dropped into the
river, and its black waters rolled down to the sea.

THE END OF ALL.

  Wandering along a waste
  Where once a city stood,
  I saw a ruined tomb,
  And in that tomb an urn,--

  A sacred funeral-urn,
  Without a name or date,
  And in its hollow depths
  A little human dust!

  Whose dust is this, I asked,
  In this forgotten urn?
  And where this waste now lies
  What city rose of old?

  None knows; its name is lost;
  It was, and is no more:
  Gone like a wind that blew
  A thousand years ago!

  Its melancholy end
  Will be the end of all;
  For, as it passed away,
  The universe will pass!

  Its sole memorial
  Some ruined world, like ours;
  A solitary urn,
  Full of the dust of men!

BIRDS OF THE NIGHT.

There are numerous swarms of insects and many small quadrupeds, requiring partial darkness
for their security, that come abroad only during the night or twilight. These would multiply
almost without check, but that certain birds are formed with the power of seeing in the dark,
and, on account of their partial blindness in the daytime, are forced by necessity to seek
their food by night. Many species of insects are most active after dewfall,--such, especially,
as spend a great portion of their lifetime in the air. Hence the very late hour at which Swallows
retire to rest, the hour succeeding sunset providing them with a fuller repast than any other
part of the day. No sooner has the Swallow disappeared, than the Whippoorwill and the Night-Jar
come forth, to prey upon the larger kinds of aerial insects. The Bat, an animal of an antediluvian
type, comes out at the same time, and assists in lessening these multitudinous swarms. The
little Owls, though they pursue the larger beetles and moths, direct their efforts chiefly
at the small quadrupeds that steal out in the early evening to nibble the tender herbs and
grasses. Thus the night, except the hours of total darkness, is with many species of animals,
though they pursue their objects with comparative stillness and silence, a period of general
activity.

In this sketch, I shall treat of the Birds of the Night under two heads, including, beside
the true nocturnal birds that go abroad in the night to seek their subsistence, those diurnal
birds that continue their songs during a considerable portion of the night. Some species of
birds are partly nocturnal in their habits. Such is the Chimney Swallow. This bird is seldom
out at noonday, which it employs in sleep, after excessive activity from the earliest morning
dawn. It is seen afterwards circling about in the decline of day, and is sometimes abroad in
fine weather the greater part of the night, when the young broods require almost unremitted
exertions, on the part of the old birds, to procure their subsistence.

The true nocturnal birds, of which the Owl and the Whippoorwill are conspicuous examples, are
distinguished by a peculiar sensibility of the eye, that enables them to see clearly by twilight
and in cloudy weather, while they are dazzled by the broad light of day. Their organs of hearing
are proportionally delicate and acute. Their wing-feathers also have a peculiar downy softness,
so that they fly without the usual fluttering sounds that attend the flight of other birds,
and are able to steal unawares upon their prey, and make their predal excursions without disturbing
the general silence of the hour. This noiseless flight is very remarkable in the Owl, as may
be observed, if a tame one be allowed to fly about a room, when we can perceive his motions
only by our sight. It is a fact worthy of our attention, that this peculiar structure of the
wing-feathers does not exist in the Woodcock. Nature makes no useless provisions for her creatures;
and hence this nocturnal bird, which obtains his food by digging into the soil, and gets no
part of it while on the wing, has no need of this contrivance. Neither stillness nor stealth
would assist him in securing his helpless prey.

Among the nocturnal birds, the most notorious is the Owl, of which there are many species,
varying from the size of an Eagle down to the little Acadian, which is no larger than a Robin.
The resemblance of the Owl to the feline quadrupeds has been a frequent subject of remark.
Like the cat, he sees most clearly by twilight or the light of the moon, seeks his prey in
the night, and spends the principal part of the day in sleep. The likeness is made stronger
by his tufts of feathers, that correspond to the ears of the quadruped,--by his large head,--his
round, full, and glaring eyes, set widely apart,--by the extreme contractility of the pupil,--and
in his manners, by his lurking and stealthy habit of surprising his victims. His eyes are partially
encircled by a disk of feathers that yields a peculiarly significant expression to his face.
His hooked bill turned downwards, so as to resemble the nose in a human countenance, the general
flatness of his features, and his upright position, give him a grave and intelligent look;
and it was this expression that caused him to be selected by the ancients as the emblem of
wisdom, and consecrated to Minerva.

The Owl is remarkable also for the acuteness of his hearing, having a large ear-drum, and being
provided with an apparatus by which he can exalt this faculty, when under the necessity of
listening with greater attention. Hence, while he is silent in his own motions, he is able
to perceive the least sound from the motion of any other object, and overtakes his prey by
coming upon it in silence and darkness. The stillness of his flight is one of the circumstances
that add mystery to his character, and which have assisted in rendering him an object of superstitious
dread.

Aware of his defenceless condition in the bright daylight, when his purblindness would prevent
him from evading the attacks of his enemies, he seeks some obscure retreat where he may pass
the day without exposing himself to observation. It is this necessity which has caused him
to make his abode in desolate and ruined buildings, in old towers and belfries, and in the
crevices of dilapidated walls. In these places he hides himself from the sight of other birds,
who regard him as their common enemy, and who show him no mercy when he is discovered. Here
also he rears his offspring, and with these solitary haunts his image is closely associated.
In thinly settled and wooded countries, he selects the hollows of old trees and the clefts
of rocks for his retreats. All the smaller Owls, however, seem to multiply with the increase
of human population, subsisting upon the minute animals that accumulate in outhouses, orchards,
and fallows.

When the Owl is discovered in his hiding-place, the alarm is given, and there is a general
excitement among the small birds. They assemble in great numbers, and with loud chattering
commence assailing and annoying him in various ways, and soon drive him out of his retreat.
The Jay, usually his first assailant, like a thief employed as a thief-taker, attacks him with
great zeal and animation; the Chickadee, the Nuthatch, and the small Thrushes peck at his head
and eyes; while other birds, less bold, fly round him, and by their vociferation encourage
his assailants and help to terrify their victim.

It is while sitting on the branch of a tree or on a fence, after his misfortune and his escape,
that he is most frequently seen in the daytime; and here he has formed a subject for painters,
who have commonly introduced him into their pictures as he appears in one of these open situations.
He is likewise represented ensconced in his own select retreats, apparently peeping out of
his hiding-place while half-concealed; and the fact of his being seen in these lonely places
has caused many superstitions to be attached to his image. His voice is supposed to bode misfortune,
and his spectral visits are regarded as the forewarnings of death. His connection with deserted
houses and ruins has invested him with a peculiarly romantic character; while the poets, by
introducing him to deepen the force of their gloomy and pathetic descriptions, have enlivened
these associations; and he deserves, therefore, in a special degree, to be named among those
animals which we call picturesque.

The gravity of the Owl's general appearance, combined with a sort of human expression in his
countenance, undoubtedly caused him to be selected by the ancients as the emblem of wisdom.
The moderns have practically renounced this idea, which had no foundation in the real character
of the bird, who possesses only the sly and sinister traits that mark the feline race. A very
different train of associations and a new series of picturesque images are now suggested by
the figure of the Owl, who has been portrayed more correctly by modern poetry than by ancient
mythology. He is now universally regarded as the emblem of ruin and desolation, true to his
character and habits, which are intimately allied to this description of scenery.

I will not enter into a speculation concerning the nature and origin of those agreeable emotions
which are so generally produced by the sight of objects that suggest the ideas of decay and
desolation. It is happy for us, that, by the alchemy of poetry, we are able to turn some of
our misfortunes into sources of melancholy pleasure, after the poignancy of grief has been
assuaged by time. Nature has beneficently provided, also, that many an object, which is capable
of communicating no direct pleasure to our senses, shall affect us agreeably through the medium
of sentiment. The image of the Owl is calculated to awaken the sentiment of ruin, and to this
feeling of the human soul we may trace the pleasure we derive from the sight of this bird in
his appropriate scenery. Two Doves upon the mossy branch of a tree in a wild and beautiful
sylvan retreat are the pleasing emblems of innocent love and constancy; but they are not more
suggestive of poetic fancies than an Owl sitting upon an old gate-post near a deserted house.

I have alluded, in another page, to the faint sounds we hear when the Night Birds, on a still
summer evening, are flying over short distances in a neighboring wood. There is a feeling of
mystery excited by these sounds, that exalts the pleasure we derive from the delightful influence
of the hour and the season. But the emotions thus produced are of a cheerful kind, and not
equal in intensity to the effects of the scarcely perceptible sound occasioned by the flight
of the Owl, as he glides by in the dusk of the evening or in the dim light of the moon. Similar
in its influence is the dismal voice of this bird, which is harmonized with darkness, and,
though in some cases not unmusical, is tuned, as it were, to the terrors of that hour when
he makes secret warfare upon the sleeping inhabitants of the wood.

One of the most interesting of this tribe of birds is the little Acadian Owl, (Strix Acadica,)
whose note has formerly excited a great deal of curiosity. In "The Canadian Naturalist," an
account is given of a rural excursion in April, in the course of which the attention of one
of the party is called by his companion, just after sunset, to a peculiar sound proceeding
from a cedar swamp. It was compared to the measured tinkling of a cow-bell, or regular strokes
upon a piece of iron, quickly repeated. The one appealed to is able to give no satisfactory
information about it, but remarks, that, "during the months of April and May, and in the former
part of June, we frequently hear, after nightfall, the sound just described. From its regularity,
it is thought to resemble the whetting of a saw, and hence the bird from which it proceeds
is called the Saw-Whetter." The author could not identify the bird that uttered this note,
but conjectured that it might be a Heron or a Bittern. It has since been ascertained that this
singular note proceeds from the Acadian Owl. It is like the sound produced by the filing of
a mill-saw, and is said to be the amatory note of the male, being heard only during the season
of incubation.

Mr. S.P. Fowler, of Danvers, informs me that "the Acadian Owl has another note, which we frequently
hear in the autumn, after the breeding season is over. The parent birds, then accompanied by
their young, while hunting their prey during a bright moonlight night, utter a peculiar note,
resembling a suppressed moan or a low whistle. The little Acadian, to avoid the annoyance of
the birds he would meet by day, and the blinding light of the sun, retires in the morning,
his feathers wet with dew and rumpled by the hard struggles he has encountered in seizing his
prey, to the gloom of the forest or the thick swamp, where, perched on a bough, near the trunk
of the tree, he sleeps through a summer's day, the perfect picture of a used-up little fellow,
suffering from the sad effects of a night's carouse. But he is an honest bird, notwithstanding
his late hours and his idle sleeping days; he is also domestic in his habits, and the father
of an interesting family, close at hand, in a hollow white-birch, and he is ever ready to give
them his support and protection."

The Mottled Owl, (Strix Asio) or Screech Owl, is somewhat larger than the Acadian or Whetsaw,
and not so familiar as the Barn Owl of Europe, though resembling it in general habits. He commonly
builds in the hollow of an old tree, also in deserted buildings, whither he resorts in the
daytime to find repose and to escape annoyance. His voice is heard most frequently in the latter
part of summer, when the young Owlets are abroad, and use their cries for purposes of mutual
salutation and recognition. This wailing note is singularly wild, and not unmusical. It is
not properly a screech or a scream, like that of the Hawk or the Peacock, but rather a sort
of moaning melody, half music and half bewailment. This wailing song is far from disagreeable,
though it has a cadence which is expressive of dreariness and melancholy. It might be performed
on a small flute, by commencing with D octave and running down by semitones to a fifth below,
and frequently repeating the notes, for the space of a minute, with occasional pauses and slight
variations, sometimes ascending as well as descending the scale. The bird does not slur the
passages, but utters them with a sort of trembling staccato. The separate notes may be distinctly
perceived, with intervals of about a semitone.

The Owl is not properly regarded as a useful bird. The generality of the tribe deserve to be
considered only as mischievous birds of prey, and no more entitled to mercy and protection
than the Falcons, to which they are allied. All the little Owls, however, though guilty of
destroying small birds, are very serviceable in ridding our fields and premises of mischievous
animals. They likewise destroy multitudes of large nocturnal insects, flying above the summits
of the trees in pursuit of them, while at other times their flight is low, when watching for
the small animals that run upon the ground. It is probably on account of its low flight that
the Owl is seldom seen on the wing. Bats, which are employed by Nature for the same kind of
services, fall victims in large numbers to the Owls of different species, who are the principal
means of preventing their multiplication.

I should wander from my present purpose, were I to attempt a sketch of the large Owls, as I
design only to treat of those birds which contribute, either as poetic or picturesque objects,
to improve the charms of Nature. I shall say but a passing word, therefore, of the Great Snowy
Owl, almost exclusively an inhabitant of the Arctic regions, where he frightens both man and
beast with his dismal hootings,--or of the Cat Owl, the prince of these monsters, who should
be consecrated to Pluto,--or of his brother monster, the Gray Owl, that will carry off a full-grown
rabbit. There are several other species, more or less interesting, ridiculous, or frightful.
I will leave them, to speak of birds of more pleasing habits and a more innocent character.

The next remarkable family of nocturnal birds comprises the Moth-Hunters, including, in New
England, only two species,--the Whippoorwill and the Night-Hawk, or Piramidig. These birds
resemble the Owls in some of their habits; but in their structure, in their mode of subsistence,
and in their general traits of character, they are like Swallows. They are shy and solitary,
take their food while on the wing, abide chiefly in deep woods, and come abroad only at twilight
or in cloudy weather. They remain, like the Dove, permanently paired, lay their eggs on the
bare ground, and, when perched upon the branch of a tree, sit upon it lengthwise, unlike other
birds. They are remarkable for their singular voices, of which that of only one species, the
Whippoorwill, can be considered musical. They are known in all parts of the world, but are
particularly numerous in the warmer parts of America.

The Whippoorwill (Caprimulgus vociferus) is well known to the inhabitants of this part of the
world, on account of his nocturnal song. This is heard only in densely wooded and retired situations,
and is associated with the solitude of the forest, as well as the silence of night. The Whippoorwill
is, therefore, emblematic of the rudeness of primitive Nature, and his voice always reminds
us of seclusion and retirement. Sometimes he wanders away from the wood into the precincts
of the town, and sings near some dwelling-house. Such an incident was formerly the occasion
of superstitious alarm, being regarded as an omen of some evil to the inmates of the dwelling.
The true cause of these irregular visits is probably the accidental abundance of a particular
kind of insects, which the bird has followed from his retirement.

I believe the Whippoorwill, in this part of the country, is first heard in May, and continues
vocal until the middle of July. He begins to sing at dusk, and we usually hear his note soon
after the Veery, the Philomel of our summer evenings, has become silent. His song consists
of three notes, in a sort of triple or waltz time, with a slight pause after the first note
in the bar, as given below:--

I should remark, that the bird usually commences his song with the second syllable of his name,
or the second note in the bar. Some birds fall short of these intervals; but there seems to
be an endeavor, on the part of each individual, to reach the notes as they are written on the
scale. A few sliding notes are occasionally introduced, and an occasional preluding cluck is
heard when we are near the singer.

The note of the Quail so closely resembles that of the Whippoorwill, that I have thought it
might be interesting to compare the two.

So great is the general similarity of the notes of these two birds, that those of the Quail
need only to be repeated several times in succession, without pause, to be mistaken for those
of the Whippoorwill. They are uttered with similar intonations; but the voice of the nocturnal
bird is more harsh, and his song consists of three notes instead of two.

The song of the Whippoorwill, though wanting in mellowness of tone, as may be perceived when
he is only a short distance from us, is to most people very agreeable, notwithstanding the
superstitions associated with it. Some persons are not disposed to rank the Whippoorwill among
singing-birds, regarding him as more vociferous than musical. But it would be difficult to
determine in what respect his notes differ from the songs of other birds, except that they
approach more nearly to the precision of artificial music. Yet it will be admitted that considerable
distance is required to "lend enchantment" to the sound of his voice. In some retired and solitary
districts, the Whippoorwills are often so numerous as to be annoying by their vociferations;
but in those places where only two or three individuals are heard during the season, their
music is the source of a great deal of pleasure, and is a kind of recommendation to the place.

I was witness of this, some time since, in one of my botanical rambles in the town of Beverly,
which is, for the most part, too densely populated to suit the habits of these solitary birds.
On one of these excursions, after walking several hours over a rather unattractive region,
I arrived at a very romantic spot, known by the unpoetical name of Black Swamp. Nature uses
her most ordinary materials to form her most delightful landscapes, and often keeps in reserve
prospects of enchanting beauty, and causes them to rise up, as it were, by magic, where we
should least expect them. Here I suddenly found myself encompassed by a charming amphitheatre
of hills and woods, and in a valley so beautiful that I could not have imagined anything equal
to it. A neat cottage stood alone in this spot, without a single architectural decoration,
which I am confident would have dissolved the spell that made the whole scene so attractive.
It was occupied by a shoemaker, whom I recognized as an old acquaintance and a worthy man,
who resided here with his wife and children. I asked them if they could live contented so far
from other families. The wife of the cottager replied, that they suffered in the winter from
their solitude, but in the spring and summer they preferred it to the town,--"for in this place
we hear all the singing-birds, early and late, and the Whippoorwill sings here every night
during May and June." It was the usual practice of these birds, they told me, to sing both
in the morning and the evening twilight; but if the moon rose late in the evening, after they
had become silent, they would begin to sing anew, as if to welcome her rising. May the birds
continue to sing to this happy family, and may the voice of the Whippoorwill never bode them
any misfortune!

The Night-Hawk, or Piramidig, (Caprimulgus Americanus,) is similar in many points to the Whippoorwill,
and the two species were formerly considered identical. The former, however, is a smaller bird;
he has no song, and exhibits more of the ways of the Swallow. He is marked by a white spot
on his wings, which is very apparent during his flight. He takes his prey in a higher part
of the atmosphere,--being frequently seen, at twilight and in cloudy weather, soaring above
the house-tops in quest of insects. The Whippoorwill finds his subsistence chiefly in the woods,
and takes a part of it from the branches of trees, while poising himself on the wing, like
a Humming-Bird. I believe he is never seen circling aloft like the Night-Hawk.

The movements of the Night-Hawk, during this flight, are performed, for the most part, in circles,
and are very picturesque. The birds are usually seen in pairs, at such times, but occasionally
there are numbers assembled together; and one might suppose they were engaged in a sort of
aerial dance, or that they were emulating each other in their attempts at soaring to a great
height. It is evident that these evolutions proceed in part from the pleasure of motion; but
they are also connected with their courtship. While they are soaring and circling in the air,
they occasionally utter the shrill and broken note which has been supposed to resemble the
word Piramidig, whence the name is derived,--and now and then they dart suddenly aside, to
seize a passing insect.

While performing these circumvolutions, the male frequently dives almost perpendicularly downwards,
a distance of forty feet or more, uttering, when he turns at the bottom of his descent, a singular
note, resembling the twang of a viol-string. This sound has been supposed to proceed from the
action of the air, as the bird dives swiftly through it with open mouth; but this supposition
is rendered improbable by the fact that the European species makes a similar sound while sitting
on its perch. It has also been alleged that the diving motion of this bird is an act designed
to intimidate those who seem to be approaching his nest; but this cannot be true, because the
bird performs the manoeuvre when he has no nest to defend. This habit is peculiar to the male,
and it is probably one of those fantastic motions which are noticeable among the males of the
gallinaceous birds, and are evidently their artifices to attract the attention of the female;
very many of these motions may be observed in the manners of tame Pigeons.

The twanging note produced during the precipitate descent of the Night-Hawk is one of the picturesque
sounds of Nature, and is heard most frequently in the morning twilight, when the birds are
busy collecting their repast of insects. During an early morning walk, while they are circling
about, we may hear their cry frequently repeated, and occasionally the booming sound, which,
if one is not accustomed to it, and is not acquainted with this habit of the bird, affects
him with a sensation of mystery, and excites his curiosity in an extraordinary degree.

The sound produced by the European species is a sort of drumming or whizzing note, like the
hum of a spinning-wheel. The male commences this performance about dusk, and continues it at
intervals during a great part of the night. It is effected while the breast is inflated with
air, like that of a cooing Dove. The Piramidig has the power of inflating himself in the same
manner, and he utters this whizzing note when one approaches his nest.

The American Woodcock (Scolopax minor) is a more interesting bird than we should infer from
his general appearance and physiognomy. He is mainly nocturnal in his habits, and his ways
are worthy of study and observation. He obtains his food by scratching up the leaves and rubbish
that lie upon the surface of the ground in damp and wooded places, and by boring into the earth
for worms. He remains concealed in the wood during the day, and comes out to feed at twilight,
choosing the open ploughed lands where worms are abundant; though it is probable that in the
shade of the wood he is more or less busy in scratching among the leaves in the daytime.

The Woodcock does not commonly venture abroad in the open day, unless he be disturbed and driven
from his retreats. He makes his first appearance here in the latter part of April, and at this
season we may observe that soaring habit which renders him one of the picturesque objects of
Nature. This soaring takes place soon after sunset, continues during twilight, and is repeated
at the corresponding hour in the morning. If you listen at this time near the places of his
resort, he will soon reveal himself by a lively peep, frequently uttered, from the ground.
While repeating this note, he may be seen strutting about, like a turkey-cock, with fantastic
jerkings of the tail and a frequent bowing of the head; and his mate, I believe, is at this
time not far off. Suddenly he springs upward, and with a wide circular sweep, uttering at the
same time a rapid whistling note, he rises in a spiral course to a great height in the air.
At the summit of his ascent, he hovers about with irregular motions, chirping a medley of broken
notes, like imperfect warbling. This continues about ten or fifteen seconds, when it ceases,
and he descends rapidly to the ground. We seldom hear him while in his descent, but receive
the first intimation of it by hearing a repetition of his peep, resembling the sound produced
by those minute wooden trumpets sold at the German toy-shops.

No person could watch this playful flight of the Woodcock without interest; and it is remarkable
that a bird with short wings and difficult flight should be capable of mounting to so great
an altitude. It affords me a vivid conception of the pleasure with which I should witness the
soaring and singing of the Skylark, known to me only by description. I have but to imagine
the chirruping of the Woodcock to be a melodious series of notes, to feel that I am listening
to that bird, which is so familiarized to our imaginations by English poetry that in our early
days we always expect his greetings with a summer sunrise. It is with sadness that we first
learn in our youth that the Skylark is not an inhabitant of the New World; and our mornings
seem divested of a great portion of their charms, for the want of this poetical accompaniment.

There is another circumstance connected with the habits of the Woodcock which increases his
importance as an actor in the melodrame of Nature. When we stroll away from the noise and din
of the town, where the stillness permits us to hear distinctly all those faint sounds which
are turned by the silence of night into music, we may hear at frequent intervals the hum produced
by the irregular flights of the Woodcock, as he passes over short distances in the wood, where
he is collecting his repast. It resembles the sound of the wings of Doves, rendered distinct
by the stillness of all other things, and melodious by the distance. There is a feeling of
mystery attached to these musical nights that yields a savor of romance to the quiet voluptuousness
of a summer evening.

It is on such occasions, if we are in a moralizing mood, that we may be keenly impressed with
the truth of the saying, that the secret of happiness consists in keeping alive our susceptibilities
by frugal indulgences, rather than by seeking a multitude of pleasures, that pall in exact
proportion to their abundance. The stillness and darkness of a quiet night produce this enlivening
effect upon our minds. Our susceptibility is then awakened to such a degree, that slight sounds
and feeble sparks of light convey to our souls an amount of pleasure which we seldom experience
in the daytime from sights and sounds of the most pleasing description. Thus the player in
an orchestra can enjoy such music only as would deafen common ears by its crash of sounds,
in which they perceive no connection or harmony; while the simple rustic listens to the rude
notes of a flageolet in the hands of a clown with feelings of ineffable delight. Nature, if
the seekers after luxurious and exciting pleasures could but understand her language, would
say to them, "Except ye become as this simple rustic, ye cannot enter into my paradise."

The American Snipe has some of the nocturnal habits of the Woodcock, and the same habit of
soaring at twilight, when he performs a sort of musical medley, which Audubon has very graphically
described in the following passage:--"The birds are met with in meadows and low grounds, and,
by being on the spot before sunrise, you may see both (male and female) mount high, in a spiral
manner, now with continuous beats of the wings, now in short sailings, until more than a hundred
yards high, when they whirl round each other with extreme velocity, and dance, as it were,
to their own music; for, at this juncture, and during the space of five or six minutes, you
hear rolling notes mingled together, each more or less distinct, perhaps, according to the
state of the atmosphere. The sounds produced are extremely pleasing, though they fall faintly
on the ear. I know not how to describe them; but I am well assured that they are not produced
simply by the beatings of their wings, as at this time the wings are not flapped, but are used
in sailing swiftly in a circle, not many feet in diameter. A person might cause a sound somewhat
similar by blowing rapidly and alternately, from one end to another, across a set of small
pipes, consisting of two or three modulations. This performance is kept up till incubation
terminates; but I have never observed it at any other period."

Among the Heron family we discover a few nocturnal birds, which, though not very well known,
have some ways that are singular and interesting. Goldsmith considered one of these birds worthy
of introduction into his "Deserted Village," as contributing to the poetic conception of desolation.

"The Bittern is a shy and solitary bird; it is never seen on the wing in the daytime, but sits,
generally with the head erect, hid among the reeds and rushes of extensive marshes, from whence
it will not stir, unless disturbed by the sportsman. When it changes its haunts, it removes
in the dusk of the evening, and then, rising in a spiral direction, soars to a vast height.
It flies in the same heavy manner as the Heron, and might be mistaken for that bird, were it
not for the singularly resounding cry which it utters, from time to time, while on the wing:
but this cry is feeble when compared with the hollow booming noise which it makes during the
night, in the breeding season, from its swampy retreats. From the loudness and solemnity of
its note, an erroneous notion prevails with the vulgar, that it either thrusts its head into
a reed, which serves as a pipe for swelling its note beyond its natural pitch, or that it immerges
its head in water, and then produces its boomings by blowing with all its might."

The American Bittern is a smaller bird, but is probably a variety of the European species.
It exhibits the same nocturnal habits, and has received at the South the name of Dunkadoo,
from the resemblance of its common note to these syllables. This is a hollow-sounding noise,
but not so loud as the voice of the Bittern to which Goldsmith alludes. I have heard it by
day proceeding from the wooded swamps, and am at a loss to explain how so small a bird can
produce so low and hollow a note. Among this family of birds are one or two other nocturnal
species, including the Qua-Bird, which is common to both continents; but there is little to
be said of it that would be interesting in this connection. The Herons, however, and their
allied species, are birds of remarkable habits, the enumeration and account of which would
occupy a considerable space. In an essay on the flight of birds in particular, the Herons would
furnish a multitude of very interesting facts.

Let us now turn our attention to those diurnal birds that sing in the night as well as in the
day, and which might be comprehended under the general appellation of Nightingales. These birds
do not confine their singing to the night, like the true nocturnal birds, and are most vocal
when inspired by the light of the moon. Europe has several of these minstrels of the night.
Beside the true Philomel of poetry and romance, the Reed-Thrush and the Woodcock are of this
character. In the United States, the Mocking-Bird enjoys the greatest reputation; the Rose-breasted
Grosbeak and the New York Thrush are also nocturnal songsters.

The Mocking-Bird (Turdus polyglottus) is well known in the Middle and Southern States, but
seldom passes a season in New England, except in the southern part of Rhode Island and Connecticut,
which seem to be the northern limit of its migrations. Probably, like the Rose-breasted Grosbeak,
which is constantly extending its limits in an eastern direction, the Mocking-Bird may be gradually
making progress northwardly, so that fifty years hence both of these birds may be common in
Massachusetts. The Mocking-Bird is familiar in his habits, frequenting gardens and orchards,
and perching on the roofs of houses when singing, like the common Robin. Like the Robin, too,
who sings at all hours excepting those of darkness, he is a persevering songster, and seems
to be inspired by living in the vicinity of man. In his manners, however, he bears more resemblance
to the Red Thrush, being distinguished by his vivacity, and the courage with which he repels
the attacks of his enemies.

The Mocking-Bird is celebrated throughout the world for his musical powers; but it is difficult
to ascertain precisely the character and quality of his original notes. Hence some naturalists
have contended that he has no song of his own, but confines himself to imitations. That this
is an error, all persons who have listened to him in his native wild-wood can testify. I should
say, from my own observations, not only that he has a distinct song, peculiarly his own, but
that his imitations are far from being equal to his original notes. Yet it is seldom we hear
him except when he is engaged in mimicry. In his native woods, and especially at an early hour
in the morning, when he is not provoked to imitation by the voices of other birds and animals,
he sometimes pours forth his own wild notes with full fervor. Yet I have often listened vainly
for hours to hear him utter anything but a few idle repetitions of monotonous sounds, interspersed
with some ludicrous varieties. Why he should neglect his own pleasing notes, to tease the listener
with his imitations of all imaginable discords, is not easily explained.

Though his imitations are the cause of his notoriety, they are not the utterances upon which
his true merit is based. He would be infinitely more valuable as a songster, if he were incapable
of imitating a single sound. I would add, that as an imitator of the songs of other birds he
is very imperfect, and in this respect has been greatly overrated by our ornithologists, who
seem to vie with one another in their exaggerations of his powers. He cannot utter the notes
of the rapid singers; he is successful only in his imitations of those birds whose notes are
simple and moderately delivered. He is, indeed, more remarkable for his indefatigable propensity
than for his powers. Single sounds, from whatever source they may come, from birds, quadrupeds,
reptiles, or machines, he gives very accurately; but I have heard numbers of Mocking-Birds
in confinement attempt to imitate the Canary, and always without success. There is a common
saying, that the Mocking-Bird will die of chagrin, if placed in a cage by the side of a caged
Bobolink, mortified because he cannot give utterance to his rapid notes. If this were the cause
of his death, he would also die when caged in a room with a Canary, a Goldfinch, or any of
the rapidly singing Finches. It is also an error to say of his imitations, as the generality
of writers assert, that they are improvements upon the originals. When he utters the notes
of the Red-Bird, the Golden Robin, or the Common Robin, he does not improve them; and when
he gives us the screaming of the Jay or the mewing of the Cat, he does not change them into music.

As an original songster, judging him by what he is capable of performing, however unfrequently
he may exercise his powers to the best advantage, the Mocking-Bird is probably equalled only
by two or three of our singing-birds. His notes are loud, varied, melodious, and of great compass.
They may be compared to those of the Red Thrush, more rapidly delivered, and having more flute
notes and fewer guttural notes and sudden transitions. He also sings on the wing and with fervor,
like the Linnet, while the other Thrushes sing only from their perch. But his song has less
variety than that of the Red Thrush, and falls short of it in as many respects as it surpasses
it. For the greater part of the time, the only notes of the Mocking-Bird, when he is not engaged
in mimicry, are a sort of melodious whistle, consisting of two notes about a fourth apart,
uttered in quick, but not rapid, succession, and hardly to be distinguished from those of the
Red-Bird of Virginia.

I heard the notes of the Mocking-Bird the first time in his native wilds, during a railroad
journey by night, through the Pine Barrens of North Carolina, in the month of June. The journey
was very tiresome and unpleasant, nothing being seen, when looking out upon the landscape,
but a gloomy stretch of level forest, consisting of tall pines, thinly scattered, without any
branches, except at their tops. The dusky forms of these trees, pictured against the half-luminous
sky, seemed like so many giant spectres watching the progress of our journey, and increased
the loneliness of the hour. Before daylight, when the sky was faintly crimsoned around the
place where the sun was to come forth, the train made a pause of half an hour, at one of the
stations, and the passengers alighted. While I was looking at the dreary prospect of desert,
tired of my journey and longing for day, suddenly the notes of the Mocking-Bird came to my
ear, and changed all my gloomy feelings into delight.

It is seldom I have felt so vividly the power of one little incident to change the tone of
one's feelings and the humor of the occasion. As a few drops of oil, cast upon the surface
of the waters, will quiet the troubled waves, so did the glad voice of this merry bird suddenly
dispel all those sombre feelings which had been fostered by dismal scenes and a lonely journey.
Nature never seemed so lovely as when the rising dawn, with its tearful beams and purple radiance,
was greeted by this warbling salutation, as from some messenger of light, who came to announce
that Morning was soon to step forth from her throne, and extend over all things her smiles
and her beneficence.

Of the other American birds that sing in the night I can say nothing from my own observation.
The most important of these is the New York Thrush, (Turdus aquaticus,) which is said to resemble
the River Nightingale of Europe. This bird, which is common in the Western States, is said
to sing melodiously night and day. Wilson remarks of this species, "They are eminently distinguished
by the loudness, sweetness, and expressive vivacity of their notes, which begin very high and
clear, falling with an almost imperceptible gradation, till they are scarcely articulated.
At these times the musician is perched on the middle branches of a tree, over a brook or river-bank,
pouring out his charming melody, that may be distinctly heard for nearly half a mile. The voice
of this little bird appeared to me so exquisitely sweet and expressive, that I was never tired
listening to it." This description is exactly applicable to the song of the Veery, supposed
to be silent by Wilson, who could not have fallen into such an error, except by having confined
his researches chiefly to the Middle and Southern States.

The Rose-breasted Grosbeak (Loxia rosea) is said to be an excellent songster, passing the greater
part of the night in singing, and continuing vocal in confinement. This bird is common in the
Western States, but until lately has seldom been seen in New England. I learn, however, from
Mr. Fowler, that "the Rose-breasted Grosbeak is found in Essex County, and, though formerly
seldom seen, is becoming every year more common. Like the Wood Thrush and Scarlet Tanager,
it is retiring in its habits, and is usually found in the most sheltered part of the wood,
where, perched about midway on a tree, in fancied concealment, it warbles its soft, clear,
and melodious notes." He thinks this bird is not heard so frequently by night as by day, though
it often sings in the light of the moon.

In connection with this theme, we cannot help feeling a sense of regret, almost like melancholy,
when we reflect that the true Nightingale and the Skylark, the classical birds of European
literature, are strangers to our fields and woods. In May and June there is no want of sylvan
minstrels to wake the morn and to sing the vespers of a sweet summer evening. A flood of song
wakes us at the earliest daylight; and the shy and solitary Veery, after the Vesper-Bird has
concluded his evening hymn, pours his few pensive notes into the very bosom of twilight, and
makes the hour sacred by his melody. But after twilight is sped, and the moon rises to shed
her meek radiance over the sleeping earth, the Nightingale is not here to greet her rising,
and to turn her melancholy beams into the cheerfulness of daylight. And when the Queen Moon
is on her throne,

  "Clustered around by all her starry Fays,"

the Whippoorwill alone brings her the tribute of his monotonous song, and soothes the dull
ear of Night with sounds which, however delightful, are not of heaven. We have become so familiar
with the Lark and the Nightingale, by the perusal of the romance of rural life, that "neither
breath of Morn, when she ascends" without the charm of this her earliest harbinger, "nor silent
Night" without her "solemn bird," seems holy, as when we contemplate them in the works of pastoral
song. Poetry has hallowed to our minds the pleasing objects of the Old World; those of the
New have to be cherished in song yet many more years, before they will be equally sacred to
our imaginations.

By some of our writers the Mocking-Bird is put forward as equal in song to the Nightingale.
This assumption might be worthy of consideration, if the American bird were not a mimic. But
his mocking habits almost annihilate his value as a songster,--as the effect of a good concert
would be spoiled, if the players were constantly introducing, in the midst of their serious
performances, snatches of ridiculous tunes and uncouth sounds. I have never heard the Nightingale;
but if I may judge from descriptions of its song, and from the notes of those Canaries which
are said to give us perfect imitations of it, we have no bird in America that equals this classical
songster. The following description, by Pliny, which is said to be superior to any other, may
afford us some idea of the extent of its powers:--"The Nightingale, that for fifteen days and
nights, hid in the thickest shades, continues her note without intermission, deserves our attention
and wonder. How surprising that so great a voice can reside in so small a body! Such perseverance
in so minute an animal! With what musical propriety are the sounds it produces modulated! The
note at one time drawn out with a long breath, now stealing off into a different cadence, now
interrupted by a break, then changing into a new note by an unexpected transition, now seeming
to renew the same strain, then deceiving expectation. She sometimes seems to murmur within
herself; full, deep, sharp, swift, drawling, trembling; now at the top, the middle, and the
bottom of the scale. In short, in that little bill seems to reside all the melody which man
has vainly labored to bring from a variety of musical instruments. Some even seem to be possessed
of a different note from the rest, and contend with each other with great ardor. The bird,
overcome, is then seen to discontinue its song only with its life."

The cause of the nocturnal singing of birds that do not go abroad during the night and are
strictly diurnal in all their other habits has never been satisfactorily explained. It is natural
that the Whippoorwill, which is a nocturnal bird, should sing during his hours of wakefulness
and activity. There is also no difficulty in explaining why Ducks and Geese, and some other
social birds, should utter their loud alarm-notes, when they meet with any midnight disturbance.
These birds usually have a sentinel who keeps awake; and if he give an alarm, the others reply
to it. The crowing of the Cock bears more analogy to the song of a bird, for it does not seem
to be an alarm-note. This domestic bird may be considered, therefore, a nocturnal songster,
if his crowing can be called a song; though it is remarkable that we seldom hear it during
evening twilight. The Cock sings his matins, but not his vespers; he crows at the earliest
dawn of day, and at midnight upon the rising of the moon, and whenever he is awakened by artificial
light. Many singing-birds are accustomed to prolong their notes after sunset to a late hour,
and become silent only to commence again at the earliest daybreak. But the habit of singing
in the night is peculiar to a small number of birds, and the cause of it forms a curious subject
of inquiry.

By what means are they enabled to sustain such constant watchfulness, singing and providing
subsistence for their offspring during the day, and still continuing wakeful and musical while
it is night? Why do they take pleasure in singing, when no one will come in answer to their
call? Have they their worship, like religious beings, and are their midnight lays but the outpouring
of the fervency of their spirits? Do they rejoice, like the clouds, in the presence of the
moon, hailing her beams as a pleasant relief from the darkness that has surrounded them? Or
in the silence of night, are their songs but responses to the sounds of the trees, when they
bow their heads and shake their rustling leaves in the wind? When they listen to the streamlet,
that makes audible melody only in the hush of night, do they not answer to it from their leafy
perch? And when the moth flies hummingly through the recesses of the wood, and the beetle sounds
his horn, what are their notes but cheerful responses to these sounds, that break sweetly upon
the quiet of their slumbers?

Wilson remarks, that the hunters in the Southern States, when setting out on an excursion by
night, as soon as they hear the Mocking-Bird sing, know that the moon is rising. He quotes
a writer who supposes that it may be fear that operates upon the birds when they perceive the
Owls flitting among the trees, and that they sing, as a timid person whistles in a lonely place,
to quiet their fears. But the musical notes of birds are never used by them to express their
fears; they are the language of love, sometimes animated by jealousy. It must be admitted that
the moonlight awakes these birds, and may be the most frequent exciting cause of their nocturnal
singing; but it is not true that they always wait for the rising of the moon; and if this were
the fact, the question may still be asked, why these few species alone should be thus affected.

Since Philosophy can give no explanation of this instinct, let Fancy come to her aid, and assist
us in our dilemma,--as when we have vainly sought from Reason an explanation of the mysteries
of Religion, we humbly submit to the guidance of Faith. With Fancy for our interpreter, we
may suppose that Nature has adapted the works of creation to our moral as well as our physical
wants; and while she has instituted the night as a time for general rest, she has provided
means that shall soften the gloomy effects of darkness. The birds, which are the harbingers
of all rural delights, are hence made to sing during twilight; and when they cease, the nocturnal
songsters become vocal, bearing pleasant sensations to the sleepless, and by their lulling
melodies preparing us to be keenly susceptible of all agreeable emotions.

TO THE MOCKING-BIRD.

  Carolling bird, that merrily, night and day,
  Tellest thy raptures from the rustling spray,
  And wakest the morning with thy varied lay,
          Singing thy matins,--
  When we have come to hear thy sweet oblation
  Of love and joyance from thy sylvan station,
  Why, in the place of musical cantation,
          Balk us with pratings?

  We stroll by moonlight in the dusky forest,
  Where the tall cypress shields thee, fervent chorist!
  And sit in haunts of Echoes, when thou pourest
          Thy woodland solo.
  Hark! from the next green tree thy song commences:
  Music and discord join to mock the senses,
  Repeated from the tree-tops and the fences,
          From hill and hollow.

  A hundred voices mingle with thy clamor;
  Bird, beast, and reptile take part in thy drama;
  Out-speak they all in turn without a stammer,--
          Brisk Polyglot!
  Voices of Killdeer, Plover, Duck, and Dotterel;
  Notes bubbling, hissing, mellow, sharp, and guttural;
  Of Cat-Bird, Cat, or Cart-Wheel, thou canst utter all,
          And all-untaught.

  The Raven's croak, the chirping of the Sparrow,
  The scream of Jays, the creaking of Wheelbarrow,
  And hoot of Owls,--all join the soul to harrow,
          And grate the ear.
  We listen to thy quaint soliloquizing,
  As if all creatures thou wert catechizing,
  Tuning their voices, and their notes revising,
          From far and near.

  Sweet bird! that surely lovest the noise of folly;
  Most musical, but never melancholy;
  Disturber of the hour that should be holy,
          With sound prodigious!
  Fie on thee, O thou feathered Paganini!
  To use thy little pipes to squawk and whinny,
  And emulate the hinge and spinning-jenny,
          Making night hideous!

  Provoking melodist! why canst thou breathe us
  No thrilling harmony, no charming pathos,
  No cheerful song of love without its bathos?
          The Furies take thee,--
  Blast thy obstreperous mirth, thy foolish chatter,--
  Gag thee, exhaust thy breath, and stop thy clatter,
  And change thee to a beast, thou senseless prater!--
          Nought else can check thee!

  A lengthened pause ensues:--but hark again!
  From the new woodland, stealing o'er the plain,
  Comes forth a sweeter and a holier strain!--
          Listening delighted,
  The gales breathe softly, as they bear along
  The warbled treasure,--the delicious throng
  Of notes that swell accordant in the song,
          As love is plighted.

  The Echoes, joyful from their vocal cell,
  Leap with the winged sounds o'er hill and dell,
  With kindling fervor, as the chimes they tell
          To wakeful Even:--
  They melt upon the ear; they float away;
  They rise, they sink, they hasten, they delay,
  And hold the listener with bewitching sway,
          Like sounds from heaven!

A TRIP TO CUBA.

HAVANA--THE JESUIT COLLEGE.

The gentlemen of our party go one day to visit the Jesuit College in Havana, yclept "Universidad
de Belen." The ladies, weary of dry goods, manifest some disposition to accompany them. This
is at once frowned down by the unfairer sex, and Can Grande, appealed to by the other side,
shakes his shoulders, and replies, "No, you are only miserable women, and cannot be admitted
into any Jesuit establishment whatever." And so the male deputation departs with elation, and
returns with airs of superior opportunity, and is more insufferable than ever at dinner, and
thereafter.

They of the feminine faction, on the other hand, consult with more direct authorities, and
discover that the doors of Belen are in no wise closed to them, and that everything within
those doors is quite at their disposition, saving and excepting the sleeping-apartments of
the Jesuit fathers,--to which, even in thought, they would on no account draw near. And so
they went and saw Belen, whereof one of them relates as follows.

The building is spacious, inclosing a hollow square, and with numerous galleries, like European
cloisters, where the youth walk, study, and play. We were shown up-stairs, into a pleasant
reception-room, where two priests soon waited on us. One of these, Padre Doyaguez, seemed to
be the decoy-duck of the establishment, and soon fastened upon one of our party, whose Protestant
tone of countenance had probably caught his attention. Was she a Protestant? Oh, no!--not with
that intelligent, physiognomy!--not with that talent! What was her name? Julia (pronounced
Hulia). Hulia was a Roman name, a Catholic name; he had never heard of a Hulia who was a Protestant;--very
strange, it seemed to him, that a Hulia could hold to such unreasonable ideas. The other priest,
Padre Lluc, meanwhile followed with sweet, quiet eyes, whose silent looks had more persuasion
in them than all the innocent cajoleries of the elder man. Padre Doyaguez was a man eminently
qualified to deal with the sex in general,--a coaxing voice, a pair of vivacious eyes, whose
cunning was not unpleasing, tireless good-humor and perseverance, and a savor of sincerity.
Padre Lluc was the sort of man that one recalls in quiet moments with a throb of sympathy,--the
earnest eyes, the clear brow, the sonorous voice. One thinks of him, and hopes that he is satisfied,--that
cruel longing and more cruel doubt shall never spring up in that capacious heart, divorcing
his affections and convictions from the system to which his life is irrevocably wedded. No,
keep still, Padre Lluc I think ever as you think now, lest the faith that seems a fortress
should prove a prison, the mother a step-dame,--lest the high, chivalrous spirit, incapable
of a safe desertion, should immolate truth or itself on the altar of consistency.

Between those two advocates of Catholicity, Hulia Protestante walks slowly through the halls
of the University. She sees first a Cabinet of Natural History, including minerals, shells,
fossils, and insects, all well-arranged, and constituting a very respectable beginning. Padre
Lluc says some good words on the importance of scientific education. Padre Doyaguez laughs
at the ladies' hoops, which he calls Malakoffs, as they crowd through the doorways and among
the glass cases; he repeats occasionally, "Hulia Protestante?" in a tone of mock astonishment,
and receives for answer, "Si, Hulia Protestante." Then comes a very creditable array of scientific
apparatus,--not of the order employed by the judges of Galileo,--electric and galvanic batteries,
an orrery, and many things beside. The library interests us more, with some luxurious classics,
a superb Dante, and a prison-cage of forbidden works, of which Padre Lluc certainly has the
key. Among these were fine editions of Rousseau and Voltaire, which appeared to be intended
for use; and we could imagine a solitary student, dark-eyed and pale, exploring their depths
at midnight with a stolen candle, and endeavoring, with self-torment, to reconcile the intolerance
of his doctrine with the charities of his heart. We imagine such a one lost in the philosophy
and sentiment of the "Nouvelle Heloise," and suddenly summoned by the convent-bell to the droning
of the Mass, the mockery of Holy Water, the fable of the Real Presence. Such contrasts might
be strange and dangerous. No, no, Padre Lluc! keep these unknown spells from your heart,--let
the forbidden books alone. Instead of the Confessions of Jean Jacques, read the Confessions
of St. Augustine,--read the new book, in three volumes, on the Immaculate Conception, which
you show me with such ardor, telling me that Can Grande, which, in the vernacular, is Parker,
has spoken of it with respect. Beyond the Fathers you must not get, for you have vowed to be
a child all your life. Those clear eyes of yours are never to look up into the face of the
Eternal Father; the show-box of the Church must content them, with Mary and the saints seen
through its dusty glass,--the august figure of the Son, who sometimes reproved his mother,
crowded quite out of sight behind the woman, whom it is so much easier to dress up and exhibit.
What is this other book which Parker has read? Padre Doyaguez says, "Hulia, if you read this,
you must become a Catholic." Padre Lluc says, "If Parker has read this book, I cannot conceive
that he is not a Catholic." The quick Doyaguez then remarks, "Parker is going to Rome to join
the Romish Church." Padre Lluc rejoins, "They say so." Hulia Protestante is inclined to cry
out, "The day that Parker becomes a Catholic, I, too, will become one"; but, remembering the
rashness of vows and the fallibility of men, she does not adopt that form of expressing Never.
Parker might, if it pleased God, become a Catholic, and then the world would have two Popes
instead of one.

We leave at last the disputed ground of the library and ascend to the observatory, which commands
a fine view of the city, and a good sweep of the heavens for the telescope, in which Padre
Lluc seemed especially to delight. The observatory is commodious, and is chiefly directed by
an attenuated young priest, with a keen eye and hectic cheek; another was occupied in working
out mathematical tables;--for these Fathers observe the stars, and are in scientific correspondence
with astronomers in Europe. This circumstance gave us real pleasure on their account,--for
science, in all its degrees, is a positive good, and a mental tonic of the first importance.
Earnestly did we, in thought, commend it to those wearied minds which have undergone the dialectic
dislocations, the denaturalizations of truth and of thought, which enable rational men to become
first Catholics and then Jesuits. For let there be no illusions about strength of mind, and
so on,--this is effected by means of a vast machinery. As, in the old story, the calves were
put in at one end of the cylinder and taken out leather breeches at the other, or as glass
is cut and wood carved, so does the raw human material, put into the machine of the Catholic
Church, become fashioned according to the will of those who guide it. Hulia Protestante! you
have a free step and a clear head; but once go into the machine, and you will come out carved
and embossed according to the old traditional pattern,--you as well as another. Where the material
is hard, they put on more power,--where it is soft, more care; wherefore I caution you here,
as I would in a mill at Lowell or Lawrence,--Don't meddle with the shafts,--don't go too near
the wheel,--in short, keep clear of the machinery. And Hulia does so; for, at the last attack
of Padre Doyaguez, she suddenly turns upon him and says, "Sir, you are a Doctrinary and a Propagandist."
And the good Father suffers her to depart in peace. But first there is the chapel to be seen,
with its tawdry and poor ornamentation,--and the dormitories of the scholars, with long double
rows of beds and mosquito-nettings. There are two of these, and each of them has at one end
a raised platform, with curtains and a bed, where rests and watches the shepherd of the little
sheep. Lastly, we have a view of the whole flock, assembled in their play-ground, and one of
them, looking up, sees his mother, who has kindly accompanied our visit to the institution.
Across the distance that separates us, we see his blue eyes brighten, and, as soon as permission
is given, he bounds like a young roe to her arms, shy and tender, his English blood showing
through his Spanish skin,--for he is a child of mixed race. We are all pleased and touched,
and Padre Lluc presently brings us a daguerreotype, and says, "It is my mother." To us it is
an indifferent portrait of an elderly Spanish woman,--but to him, how much! With kindest mutual
regard we take leave,--a little surprised, perhaps, to see that Jesuit priests have mothers,
and remember them.

SAN ANTONIO DE LOS BANOS.

  "Far from my thoughts, vain world, begone!"

However enchanting Havana may prove, when seen through the moonlight of memory, it seems as
good a place to go away from as any other, after a stifling night in a net, the wooden shutters
left open in the remote hope of air, and admitting the music of a whole opera-troupe of dogs,
including bass, tenor, soprano, and chorus. Instead of bouquets, you throw stones, if you are
so fortunate as to have them,--if not, boot-jacks, oranges, your only umbrella. You are last
seen thrusting frantic hands and feet through the iron bars, your wife holding you back by
the flannel night-gown which you will persist in wearing in this doubtful climate. At last
it is over,--the fifth act ends with a howl which makes you hope that some one of the performers
has come to grief. But, alas! it is only a stage denouement, whose hero will die again every
night while the season lasts. You fall asleep, but the welcome cordial has scarcely been tasted
when you are aroused by a knock at the door. It is the night-porter, who wakes you at five
by appointment, that you may enjoy your early coffee, tumble into a hired volante, and reach,
half dead with sleep, the station in time for the train that goes to San Antonio.

Now, whether you are a partisan of early rising or not, you must allow that sunrise and the
hour after is the golden time of the day in Cuba. So this hour of starting,--six o'clock,--so
distasteful in our latitudes, is a matter of course in tropical climates. Arriving at the station,
you encounter new tribulations in the registering and payment of luggage, the transportation
of which is not included in the charge for your ticket. Your trunks are recorded in a book,
and, having paid a real apiece for them, you receive a paper which entitles you to demand them
again at your journey's end. The Cuban railways are good, but dear,--the charge being ten cents
a mile; whereas in our more favored land one goes for three cents, and has the chance of a
collision and surgeon's services without any extra payment. The cars have windows which are
always open, and blinds which are always closed, or nearly so. The seats and backs of seats
are of cane, for coolness,--hardness being secured at the same time. One reaches San Antonio
in an hour and a half, and finds a pleasant village, with a river running through it, several
streets of good houses, several more of bad ones, a cathedral, a cockpit, a volante, four soldiers
on horseback, two on foot, a market, dogs, a bad smell, and, lastly, the American Hotel,--a
house built in a hollow square, as usual,--kept by a strong-minded woman from the States, whose
Yankee thrift is unmistakable, though she has been long absent from the great centres of domestic
economy.

Mrs. L----, always on the watch for arrivals, comes out to receive us. We are very welcome,
she hints, as far as we go; but why are there not more of us? The smallest favors should be
thankfully received, but she hears that Havana is full of strangers, and she wonders, for her
part, why people will stay in that hot place, and roast, and stew, and have the yellow fever,
when she could make them so comfortable in San Antonio. This want of custom she continues,
during our whole visit, to complain of. Would it be uncharitable for us to aver that we found
other wants in her establishment which caused us more astonishment, and which went some way
towards accounting for the deficiency complained of? wants of breakfast, wants of dinner, wants
of something good for tea, wants of towels, wants of candles, wants of ice, or, at least, of
the cooling jars used in the country. Charges exorbitant,--the same as in Havana, where rents
are an ounce a week, and upwards; volantes difficult,--Mrs. L. having made an agreement with
the one livery-stable that they shall always be furnished at most unreasonable prices, of which
she, supposably, pockets half. On the other hand, the village is really cool, healthy, and
pretty; there are pleasant drives over dreadful roads, if one makes up one's mind to the volante,
and delightful river-baths, shaded by roofs of palm-tree thatch. One of the best of these is
at the foot of Mrs. L.'s inclosure, and its use is included in the privileges of the house.
The water is nearly tepid, clear, and green, and the little fish float hither and thither in
it,--though men of active minds are sometimes reduced to angle for them, with crooked pins,
for amusement. At the hour of one, daily, the ladies of the house betake themselves to this
refreshment; and there is laughing, and splashing, and holding of hands, and simulation of
all the Venuses that ever were, from the crouching one of the bath, to the triumphant Cytherea,
springing for the first time from the wave.

Such are the resources of the house. Those of the neighborhood are various. Foremost among
them is the cafetal, or coffee-plantation, of Don Juan Torres, distant a league from the village,
over which league of stone, sand, and rut you rumble in a volante dragged by three horses.
You know that the volante cannot upset; nevertheless you experience some anxious moments when
it leans at an obtuse angle, one wheel in air, one sticking in a hole, the horses balking and
kicking, and the postilion swearing his best. But it is written, the volante shall not upset,--and
so it does not. Long before you see the entrance to the plantation, you watch the tall palms,
planted in a line, that shield, its borders. An avenue of like growth leads you to the house,
where barking dogs announce you, and Don Juan, an elderly gentleman in slippers and a Panama
hat, his hair, face, and eyes all faded to one hue of grayness, comes out to accost us. Here,
again, Hulia Protestante becomes the subject of a series of attacks, in a new kind. Don Juan
first exhausts his flower-garden upon her, and explains all that is new to her. Then she must
see his blind Chino, a sightless Samson of a Cooly, who is working resolutely in a mill. "Canta!"
says the master, and the poor slave gives tongue like a hound on the scent. "Baila!" and, a
stick being handed him, he performs the gymnastics of his country, a sort of war-dance without
accompaniment. "El can!" and, giving him a broom, they loose the dog upon him. A curious tussle
then ensues,--the dog attacking furiously, and the blind man, guided by his barking, defending
himself lustily. The Chino laughs, the master laughs, but the visitor feels more inclined to
cry, having been bred in those Northern habits which respect infirmity. A real dismisses the
poor soul with a smile, and then begins the journey round the cafetal. The coffee-blossom is
just in its perfection, and whole acres in sight are white with its flower, which nearly resembles
that of the small white jasmine. Its fragrance is said to be delicious after a rain; but, the
season being dry, it is scarcely discernible. As shade is a great object in growing coffee,
the grounds are laid out in lines of fruit- trees, and these are the ministers of Hulia's tribulation;
for Don Juan, whether in kindness or in mischief, insists that she shall taste every unknown
fruit,--and as he cuts them and hands them to her, she is forced to obey. First, a little negro
shins up a cocoa-nut-tree, and flings down the nut, whose water she must drink. One cocoa-nut
she endures,--two,--but three? no, she must rebel, and cry out,--"No mi gusta!" Then she must
try a bitter orange, then a sour bitter one, then a sweet lemon, then a huge fruit of triple
verjuice flavor. "What is it good for?" she asks, after a shuddering plunge into its acrid
depths. "Oh," says the Don, "they eat it in the castors instead of vinegar." Then come sapotas,
mamey, Otaheite gooseberries. "Does she like bananas?" he cuts a tree down with his own hand,
and sends the bunch of fruit to her volante;--"Sugar-cane?" he bestows a huge bundle of sticks
for her leisurely rodentation;--he fills her pocket with coral beans for her children. Having,
at last, exhausted every polite attention, and vainly offered gin, rum, and coffee, as a parting
demonstration, Hulia and her partner escape, bearing with them many strange flavors, and an
agonizing headache, the combined result of sun and acids. Really, if there exist anywhere on
earth a society for the promotion and encouragement of good manners, it should send a diploma
to Don Juan, admonishing him only to omit the vinegar-fruit in his further walks of hospitality.

We take the Sunday to visit the nearest sugar-plantation, belonging to Don Jacinto Gonzales.
Sun, not shade, being the desideratum in sugar-planting, there are few trees or shrubs bordering
the sugar-fields, which resemble at a distance our own fields of Indian corn, the green of
the leaves being lighter, and a pale blue blossom appearing here and there. The points of interest
here are the machinery, the negroes, and the work. Entering the sugar-house, we find the maquinista
(engineer) superintending some repairs in the machinery, aided by another white man, a Cooly,
and an imp of a black boy, who begged of all the party, and revenged himself with clever impertinence
on those who refused him. The maquinista was a fine-looking man, from the Pyrenees, very kind
and obliging. He told us that Don Jacinto was very old, and came rarely to the plantation.
We asked him how the extreme heat of his occupation suited him, and for an answer he opened
the bosom of his shirt, and showed us the marks of innumerable leeches. The machinery is not
very complicated. It consists of a wheel and band, to throw the canes under the powerful rollers
which crush them, and these rollers, three in number, all moved by the steam-engine. The juice
flows into large copper caldrons, where it is boiled and skimmed. As they were not at work,
we did not see the actual process. Leaving the sugar-house, we went in pursuit of the mayoral,
or overseer, who seemed to inhabit comfortable quarters, in a long, low house, shielded from
the sun by a thick screen of matting. We found him a powerful, thick-set man, of surly and
uncivil manners, girded with a sword, and further armed with a pistol, a dagger, and a stout
whip. He was much too important a person to waste his words upon us, but signified that the
major-domo would wait on us, which he presently did. We now entered the negro quarter, a solid
range of low buildings, formed around a hollow square, whose strong entrance is closed at nightfall,
and its inmates kept in strict confinement till the morning hour of work comes round. Just
within the doorway we encountered the trader, who visits the plantations every Sunday, to tempt
the stray cash of the negroes by various commodities, of which the chief seemed to be white
bread, calicoes, muslins, and bright cotton handkerchiefs. He told us that their usual weekly
expenditure amounted to about twenty-five dollars. Bargaining with him stood the negro-driver,
a tattooed African, armed with a whip. All within the court swarmed the black bees of the hive,--the
men with little clothing, the small children naked, the women decent. All had their little
charcoal fires, with pots boiling over them; the rooms within looked dismally dark, close,
and dirty; there are no windows, no air and light save through the ever-open door. The beds
are sometimes partitioned off by a screen of dried palm-leaf, but I saw no better sleeping-privilege
than a board with a blanket or coverlet. From this we turned to the nursery, where all the
children incapable of work are kept; the babies are quite naked, and sometimes very handsome
in their way, black and shining, with bright eyes and well-formed limbs. No great provision
is made for their amusement, but the little girls nurse them tenderly enough, and now and then
the elders fling them a bit of orange or chaimito, for which they scramble like so many monkeys.
Appeals are constantly made to the pockets of visitors, by open hands stretched out in all
directions. To these "Nada"--"Nothing"--is the safe reply; for, if you give to one, the others
close about you with frantic gesticulation, and you have to break your way through them with
some violence, which hurts your own feelings more than it does theirs. On strict plantations
this is not allowed; but Don Jacinto, like Lord Ashburton at the time of the Maine treaty,
is an old man,--a very old man; and where discipline cannot be maintained, peace must be secured
on any terms. We visit next the sugar-house, where we find the desired condiment in various
stages of color and refinement. It is whitened with clay, in large funnel-shaped vessels, open
at the bottom, to allow the molasses to run off. Above are hogsheads of coarse, dark sugar;
below is a huge pit of fermenting molasses, in which rats and small negroes occasionally commit
involuntary suicide, and from which rum is made.--N. B. Rum is not a wicked word in Cuba; in
Boston everybody is shocked when it is named, and in Cuba nobody is shocked when it is drunk.

And here endeth the description of our visit to the sugar-plantation of Don Jacinto, and in
good time, too,--for by this it had grown so hot, that we made a feeble rush for the volante,
and lay back in it, panting for breath. Encountering a negress with a load of oranges on her
head, we bought and ate the fruit with eagerness, though the oranges were bitter. The jolting
over three miles of stone and rut did not improve the condition of our aching heads. Arriving
at San Antonio, we thankfully went to bed for the rest of the morning, and dreamed, only dreamed,
that the saucy black boy in the boiling-house had run after us, had lifted the curtain of the
volante, screeched a last impertinence after us, and kissed his hand for a good-bye, which,
luckily for him, is likely to prove eternal.

THE MORRO FORTRESS--THE UNIVERSITY OF HAVANA--THE BENEFICENZA.

The Spanish government experiences an unwillingness to admit foreigners into the Morro, their
great stronghold, the causes of which may not be altogether mysterious. Americans have been
of late especially excluded from it, and it was only by a fortunate chance that we were allowed
to visit it. A friend of a friend of ours happened to have a friend in the garrison, and, after
some delays and negotiations, an early morning hour was fixed upon for the expedition.

The fort is finely placed at the entrance of the harbor, and is in itself a picturesque object.
It is built of a light, yellowish stone, which is seen, as you draw near, in strong contrast
with the vivid green of the tropical waters. We approached it by water, taking a rowboat from
the Alameda. As we passed, we had a good view of a daily Havana spectacle, the washing of the
horses. This being by far the easiest and most expeditious way of cleaning the animals, they
are driven daily to the sea in great numbers, those of one party being tied together; they
disport themselves in the surge and their wet backs glisten in the sun. Their drivers, nearly
naked, plunge in with them, and bring them safely back to the shore.

But for the Morro. We entered without difficulty, and began at once a somewhat steep ascent,
which the heat, even at that early hour, made laborious. After some climbing, we reached the
top of the parapet, and looked out from the back of the fortress. On this side, if ever on
any, it will be taken,--for, standing with one's back to the harbor, one sees, nearly on the
right hand, a point where trenches could be opened with advantage. The fort is heavily gunned
and garrisoned, and seems to be in fighting order. The outer wall is separated from the inner
by a paved space some forty feet in width. The height of both walls makes this point a formidable
one; but scaling-ladders could be thrown across, if one had possession of the outer wall. The
material is the coralline rock common in this part of the island. It is a soft stone, and would
prove, it is feared, something like the cotton-bag defence of New Orleans memory,--as the balls
thrown from without would sink in, and not splinter the stone, which for the murderous work
were to be wished. A little perseverance, with much perspiration, brought us to a high point,
called the Lantern, which is merely a small room, where the telescope, signal-books, and signals
are kept. Here we were received by an official in blue spectacles and with a hole in his boot,
but still with that air of being the chiefest thing on God's earth common to all Spaniards.
The best of all was that we brought a sack of oranges with us, and that the time was now come
for their employment. With no other artillery than these did we take the very heart of the
Morro citadel,--for, on offering them to the official with the hole, he surrendered at once,
smiled, gave us seats, and sitting down with us, indeed, was soon in the midst of his half-dozenth
orange. Having refreshed ourselves, examined the flags of all nations, and made all the remarks
which our limited Spanish allowed, we took leave, redescended, and reembarked. One of our party,
an old soldier, had meanwhile been busily scanning the points and angles of the fortress, pacing
off distances, etc., etc. The result of his observations would, no doubt, be valuable to men
of military minds. But the writer of this, to be candid, was especially engaged with the heat,
the prospect, the oranges, and the soldiers' wives and children, who peeped out from windows
here and there. Such trifling creatures do come into such massive surroundings, and trifle still!

Our ladies, being still in a furious mood of sight-seeing, desired to visit the University
of Havana, and, having made appointment with an accomplished Cuban, betook themselves to the
College buildings with all proper escort. Their arrival in the peristyle occasioned some excitement.
One of the students came up, and said, in good English, "What do you want?" Others, not so
polite, stared and whispered in corners. A message to one of the professors was attended with
some delay, and our Cuban friend, having gone to consult with him, returned to say, with some
embarrassment, that the professor would be happy to show the establishment to the ladies on
Sunday, at two, P.M., when every male creature but himself would be out of it; but as for their
going through the rooms while the undergraduates were about, that was not to be thought of.
"Why not?" asked the ladies. "For your own sake," said the messenger, and proceeded to explain
that the appearance of the skirted in these halls of learning would be followed by such ill-conduct
and indignity of impertinence on the part of the shirted as might be intolerable to the one
and disadvantageous to the other. Now there be women, we know, whose horrid fronts could have
awed these saucy little Cubans into decency and good behavior, and some that we know, whether
possessing that power or not, would have delighted in the fancied exercise of it. What strong-minded
company, under these circumstances, would have turned back? What bolting, tramping, and rushing
would they not have made through the ranks of the astonished professors and students? The Anniversary
set, for example, who sweep the pews of men, or, coming upon one forlorn, crush him as a boa
does a sheep. Our silly little flock only laughed, colored, and retreated to the volantes,
where they held a council of war, and decided to go visit some establishment where possibly
better manners might prevail.

Returning on the Sunday, at the hour appointed, they walked through the deserted building,
and found spacious rooms, the pulpits of the professors, the benches of the students, the Queen's
portrait, a very limited library, and, for all consolation, some pleasant Latin sentences over
the doors of the various departments, celebrating the solace and delights of learning. This
was seeing the College, literally; but it was a good deal like seeing the lion's den, the lion
himself being absent on leave,--or like visiting the hippopotamus in Regent's Park on those
days in which he remains steadfastly buried in his tank, and will show only the tip of a nostril
for your entrance-fee. Still, it was a pleasure to know that learning was so handsomely housed;
and as for the little rabble who could not be trusted in the presence of the sex, we forgave
them heartily, knowing that soberer manners would one day come upon them, as inevitably as
baldness and paternity.

Let me here say, that a few days in Havana make clear to one the seclusion of women in the
East, and its causes. Wherever the animal vigor of men is so large in proportion to their moral
power, as in those countries, women must be glad to forego their liberties for the protection
of the strong arm. One master is better for them than many. Whatever tyranny may grow out of
such barbarous manners, the institution springs from a veritable necessity and an original
good intention. The Christian religion should change this, which is justifiable only in a Mohammedan
country. But where that religion is so loosely administered as in Cuba, where its teachers
themselves frequent the cock-pit and the gaming-table, one must not look for too much of its
power in the manners and morals of men.

The Beneficenza was our next station. It is, as its name signifies, an institution with a benevolent
purpose, an orphan asylum and foundling hospital in one. The State here charitably considers
that infants who are abandoned by their parents are as much orphaned as they can become by
the interposition of death,--nay, more. The death of parents oftenest leaves a child with some
friend or relative; but the foundling is cut off from all human relationship,--he belongs only
to the hand that takes him up, when he has been left to die. Despite the kind cruelty of modern
theories, which will not allow of suitable provision for the sufferer, for fear of increasing
the frequency of the crime by which he suffers, our hearts revolt at the miserable condition
of those little creatures in our great cities, confounded with hopeless pauperism in its desolate
asylums, or farmed out to starve and die. They belong to the State, and the State should nobly
retrieve the world's offence against them. Their broken galaxy shows many a bright star here
and there. Such a little wailing creature has been found who has commanded great actions and
done good service among men. Let us, then, cherish the race of foundlings, of whom Moses was
the first and the greatest. The princess who reared him saw not the glorious destiny which
lay hid, as a birth-jewel, in his little basket of reeds. She saw only, as some of us have
seen, a helpless, friendless babe. When he dedicated to her his first edition of the Pentateuch--But,
nay, he did not; for neither gratitude nor dedications were in fashion among the Jews.

We found the Beneficenza spacious, well-ventilated, and administered with great order. It stands
near the sea, with a fine prospect in view, and must command a cool breeze, if there be any.
The children enjoy sea-bathing in summer. The superintendent received us most kindly, and presented
us to the sisters who have charge of the children, who were good specimens of their class.
We walked with them through the neat dormitories, and observed that they were much more airy
than those of the Jesuit College, lately described. They all slept on the sackings of the cots,
beds being provided only in the infirmary. In the latter place we found but two inmates,--one
suffering from ordinary Cuban fever, the other with ophthalmia.--N.B. Disease of the eyes does
not seem to be common in Cuba, in spite of the tropical glare of the sun; nor do people nurse
and complain of their eyes there, as with us. We found a separate small kitchen for the sick,
which was neat and convenient. The larger kitchen, too, was handsomely endowed with apparatus,
and the superintendent told us, with a twinkle in his eye, that the children lived well. Coffee
at six, a good breakfast at nine, dinner at the usual hour, bread and coffee before bed-time;--this
seemed very suitable as to quantity, though differing from our ideas of children's food; but
it must be remembered that the nervous stimulus of coffee is not found to be excessive in hot
climates; it seems to be only what Nature demands,--no more. The kind nun who accompanied us
now showed us, with some pride, various large presses, set in the wall, and piled to the top
with clean and comfortable children's clothing. We came presently to where the boys were reciting
their catechism. An ecclesiastic was hearing them;--they seemed ready enough with their answers,
but were allowed to gabble off the holy words in a manner almost unintelligible, and quite
indecorous. They were bright, healthy-looking little fellows, ranging apparently from eight
to twelve in age. They had good play-ground set off for them, and shady galleries to walk up
and down in. Coming from their quarter, the girls' department seemed quiet enough. Here was
going on the eternal task of needlework, to which the sex has been condemned ever since Adam's
discovery of his want of wardrobe. Oh, ye wretched, foolish women! why will ye forever sew?
"We must not only sew, but be thankful to sew; that little needle being, as the sentimental
Curtis has said, the only thing between us and the worst that may befall."

These incipient women were engaged in various forms of sewing,--the most skilful in a sort
of embroidery, like that which forms the border of pina handkerchiefs. A few were reading and
spelling. One poor blind girl sat amongst them, with melancholy arms folded, and learned nothing,--they
told us, nothing; for the instruction of the blind is not thought of in these parts. This seemed
piteous to us, and made us reflect how happy are our blinds, to say nothing of our deafs and
dumbs. Idiocy is not uncommon here, and is the result of continual intermarriage between near
relations; but it will be long before they will provide it with a separate asylum and suitable
instruction.

But now came the saddest part of the whole exhibition,--a sight common enough in Europe, but,
by some accident, hitherto unseen by us. Here is a sort of receptacle, with three or four compartments,
which turns on a pivot. One side of it is open to the street, and in it the wretched parent
lays the more wretched baby,--ringing a small bell, at the same time, for the new admittance;
the parent vanishes, the receptacle turns on its pivot,--the baby is within, and, we are willing
to believe, in merciful hands.

The sight of this made, for the first time, the crime real to me. I saw, at a flash, the whole
tragedy of desertion,--the cautious approach, the frightened countenance, the furtive act,
and the great avenging pang of Nature after its consummation. What was Hester Prynne's pillory,
compared to the heart of any of those mothers? I thought, too, of Rousseau, bringing to such
a place as this children who had the right to inherit divine genius, and deserting them for
the sordid reason that he did not choose to earn their bread,--the helpless mother weeping
at home, and begging, through long years, to be allowed to seek and reclaim them.

Well, here were the little creatures kindly cared for; yet what a piteous place was their nursery!
Some of the recent arrivals looked as if ill-usage had been exhausted upon them before they
were brought hither. Blows and drugs and starvation had been tried upon them, but, with the
tenacity of infancy, they clung to life. They would not die;--well, then, they should live
to regret it. Some of them lay on the floor, deformed and helpless; the older ones formed a
little class, and were going through some elementary exercise when we passed. The babies had
a large room allotted to them, and I found the wet-nurses apportioned one to each child. This
appeared a very generous provision, as, in such establishments elsewhere, three and even four
children are given to one nurse. They had comfortable cribs, on each of which was pinned the
name of its little inmate, and the date of its entrance;--generally, the name and age of the
child are found written on a slip of paper attached to its clothing, when it is left in the
receptacle. I saw on one, "Cecilio, three weeks old." He had been but a few days in the establishment.

Of course, I lingered longest in the babies' room, and longest of all near the crib of the
little Cecilio. He was a pretty baby, and seemed to me the most ill-used of all, because the
youngest. "Could they not bear with you three weeks, little fellow?" I said. "I know those
at whose firesides such as you would have been welcome guests. That New York woman whom I met
lately, young, rich, and childless,--I could commend you to her in place of the snarling little
spaniel fiend who was her constant care and companion."

But here the superintendent made a polite bow, saying,--"And now your Worships have seen all;
for the chapel is undergoing repairs, and cannot be visited." And so we thanked, and departed.

DANIEL GRAY.

  If I shall ever win the home in heaven
    For whose sweet rest I humbly hope and pray,
  In the great company of the forgiven
    I shall be sure to find old Daniel Gray.

  I knew him well; in fact, few knew him better;
    For my young eyes oft read for him the Word,
  And saw how meekly from the crystal letter
    He drank the life of his beloved Lord.

  Old Daniel Gray was not a man who lifted
    On ready words his freight of gratitude,
  And was not called upon among the gifted,
    In the prayer-meetings of his neighborhood.

  He had a few old-fashioned words and phrases,
    Linked in with sacred texts and Sunday rhymes;
  And I suppose, that, in his prayers and graces,
    I've heard them all at least a thousand times.

  I see him now,--his form, and face, and motions,
    His homespun habit, and his silver hair,--
  And hear the language of his trite devotions
    Rising behind the straight-backed kitchen-chair.

  I can remember how the sentence sounded,--
    "Help us, O Lord, to pray, and not to faint!"
  And how the "conquering-and-to-conquer" rounded
    The loftier aspirations of the saint.

  He had some notions that did not improve him:
    He never kissed his children,--so they say;
  And finest scenes and fairest flowers would move him
    Less than a horseshoe picked up in the way.

  He could see nought but vanity in beauty,
    And nought but weakness in a fond caress,
  And pitied men whose views of Christian duty
    Allowed indulgence in such foolishness.

  Yet there were love and tenderness within him;
    And I am told, that, when his Charley died,
  Nor Nature's need nor gentle words could win him
    From his fond vigils at the sleeper's side.

  And when they came to bury little Charley,
    They found fresh dew-drops sprinkled in his hair,
  And on his breast a rose-bud, gathered early,--
    And guessed, but did not know, who placed it there.

  My good old friend was very hard on fashion,
    And held its votaries in lofty scorn,
  And often burst into a holy passion
    While the gay crowds went by, on Sunday morn.

  Yet he was vain, old Gray, and did not know it!
    He wore his hair unparted, long, and plain,
  To hide the handsome brow that slept below it,
    For fear the world would think that he was vain!

  He had a hearty hatred of oppression,
    And righteous words for sin of every kind;
  Alas, that the transgressor and transgression
    Were linked so closely in his honest mind!

  Yet that sweet tale of gift without repentance,
    Told of the Master, touched him to the core,
  And tearless he could never read the sentence:
    "Neither do I condemn thee: sin no more."

  Honest and faithful, constant in his calling,
    Strictly attendant on the means of grace,
  Instant in prayer, and fearful most of falling,
    Old Daniel Gray was always in his place.

  A practical old man, and yet a dreamer,
    He thought that in some strange, unlooked-for way,
  His mighty Friend in heaven, the great Redeemer,
    Would honor him with wealth some golden day.

  This dream he carried in a hopeful spirit
    Until in death his patient eye grew dim,
  And his Redeemer called him to inherit
    The heaven of wealth long garnered up for him.

THE MINISTER'S WOOING.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER XVIII.

The Doctor sat at his study-table. It was evening, and the slant beams of the setting sun shot
their golden arrows through the healthy purple clusters of lilacs that veiled the windows.
There had been a shower that filled them with drops of rain, which every now and then tattooed,
with a slender rat-tat, on the window-sill, as a breeze would shake the leaves and bear in
perfume on its wings. Sweet, fragrance-laden airs tripped stirringly to and fro about the study-table,
making gentle confusions, fluttering papers on moral ability, agitating treatises on the great
end of creation, mixing up subtile distinctions between amiable instincts and true holiness,
and, in short, conducting themselves like very unappreciative and unphilosophical little breezes.

The Doctor patiently smoothed back and rearranged, while opposite to him sat Mary, bending
over some copying she was doing for him. One stray sunbeam fell on her light brown hair, tinging
it to gold; her long, drooping lashes lay over the wax-like pink of her cheeks, as she wrote on.

"Mary," said the Doctor, pushing the papers from him.

"Sir," she answered, looking up, the blood just perceptibly rising in her cheeks.

"Do you ever have any periods in which your evidences seem not altogether clear?"

Nothing could show more forcibly the grave, earnest character of thought in New England at
this time than the fact that this use of the term "evidences" had become universally significant
and understood as relating to one's right of citizenship in a celestial, invisible commonwealth.

So Mary understood it, and it was with a deepening flush she answered gently, "No, Sir."

"What! never any doubts?" said the Doctor.

"I am sorry," said Mary, apologetically; "but I do not see how I can have; I never could."

"Ah!" said the Doctor, musingly, "would I could say so! There are times, indeed, when I hope
I have an interest in the precious Redeemer, and behold an infinite loveliness and beauty in
Him, apart from anything I expect or hope. But even then how deceitful is the human heart!
how insensibly might a mere selfish love take the place of that disinterested complacency which
regards Him for what He is in Himself, apart from what He is to us! Say, my dear friend, does
not this thought sometimes make you tremble?"

Poor Mary was truth itself, and this question distressed her; she must answer the truth. The
fact was, that it had never come into her blessed little heart to tremble, for she was one
of those children of the bride-chamber who cannot mourn, because the bridegroom is ever with
them; but then, when she saw the man for whom her reverence was almost like that for her God
thus distrustful, thus lowly, she could not but feel that her too calm repose might, after
all, be the shallow, treacherous calm of an ignorant, ill-grounded spirit, and therefore, with
a deep blush and a faltering voice, she said,--

"Indeed, I am afraid something must be wrong with me. I cannot have any fears,--I never could;
I try sometimes, but the thought of God's goodness comes all around me, and I am so happy before
I think of it!"

"Such exercises, my dear friend, I have also had," said the Doctor; "but before I rest on them
as evidences, I feel constrained to make the following inquiries:--Is this gratitude that swells
my bosom the result of a mere natural sensibility? Does it arise in a particular manner because
God has done me good? or do I love God for what He is, as well as for what He has done? and
for what He has done for others, as well as for what He has done for me? Love to God which
is built on nothing but good received is not incompatible with a disposition so horrid as even
to curse God to His face. If God is not to be loved except when He does good, then in affliction
we are free. If doing us good is all that renders God lovely to us, then not doing us good
divests Him of His glory, and dispenses us from obligation to love Him. But there must be,
undoubtedly, some permanent reason why God is to be loved by all; and if not doing us good
divests Him of His glory so as to free us from our obligation to love, it equally frees the
universe; so that, in fact, the universe of happiness, if ours be not included, reflects no
glory on its Author."

The Doctor had practised his subtile mental analysis till his instruments were so fine-pointed
and keen-edged that he scarce ever allowed a flower of sacred emotion to spring in his soul
without picking it to pieces to see if its genera and species were correct. Love, gratitude,
reverence, benevolence,--which all moved in mighty tides in his soul,--were all compelled to
pause midway while he rubbed up his optical instruments to see whether they were rising in
right order. Mary, on the contrary, had the blessed gift of womanhood,--that vivid life in
the soul and sentiment which resists the chills of analysis, as a healthful human heart resists
cold; yet still, all humbly, she thought this perhaps was a defect in herself, and therefore,
having confessed, in a depreciating tone, her habits of unanalyzed faith and love, she added,--

"But, my dear Sir, you are my best friend. I trust you will be faithful to me. If I am deceiving
myself, undeceive me; you cannot be too severe with me."

"Alas!" said the Doctor, "I fear that I may be only a blind leader of the blind. What, after
all, if I be only a miserable self-deceiver? What if some thought of self has come in to poison
all my prayers and strivings? It is true, I think,--yes, I think," said the Doctor, speaking
very slowly and with intense earnestness,--"I think, that, if I knew at this moment that my
name never would be written among those of the elect, I could still see God to be infinitely
amiable and glorious, and could feel sure that He could not do me wrong, and that it was infinitely
becoming and right that He should dispose of me according to His sovereign pleasure. I think
so;--but still my deceitful heart!--after all, I might find it rising in rebellion. Say, my
dear friend, are you sure, that, should you discover yourself to be forever condemned by His
justice, you would not find your heart rising up against Him?"

"Against Him?" said Mary, with a tremulous, sorrowful expression on her face,--"against my
Heavenly Father?"

Her face flushed, and faded; her eyes kindled eagerly, as if she had something to say, and
then grew misty with tears. At last she said,--

"Thank you, my dear, faithful friend! I will think about this; perhaps I may have been deceived.
How very difficult it must be to know one's self perfectly!"

Mary went into her own little room, and sat leaning for a long time with her elbow on the window-seat,
watching the pale shells of the apple-blossoms as they sailed and fluttered downward into the
grass, and listened to a chippering conversation in which the birds in the nest above were
settling up their small housekeeping accounts for the day.

After a while, she took her pen and wrote the following, which the Doctor found the next morning
lying on his study-table:--

"MY DEAR, HONORED FRIEND,--How can I sufficiently thank you for your faithfulness with me?
All you say to me seems true and excellent; and yet, my dear Sir, permit me to try to express
to you some of the many thoughts to which our conversation this evening has given rise. To
love God because He is good to me you seem to think is not a right kind of love; and yet every
moment of my life I have experienced His goodness. When recollection brings back the past,
where can I look that I see not His goodness? What moment of my life presents not instances
of merciful kindness to me, as well as to every creature, more and greater than I can express,
than my mind is able to take in? How, then, can I help loving God because He is good to me?
Were I not an object of God's mercy and goodness, I cannot have any conception what would be
my feeling. Imagination never yet placed me in a situation not to experience the goodness of
God in some way or other; and if I do love Him, how can it be but because He is good, and to
me good? Do not God's children love Him because He first loved them?

"If I called nothing goodness which did not happen to suit my inclination, and could not believe
the Deity to be gracious and merciful except when the course of events was so ordered as to
agree with my humor, so far from imagining that I had any love to God, I must conclude myself
wholly destitute of anything good. A love founded on nothing but good received is not, you
say, incompatible with a disposition so horrid as even to curse God. I am not sensible that
I ever in my life imagined anything but good could come from the hand of God. From a Being
infinite in goodness everything must be good, though we do not always comprehend how it is
so. Are not afflictions good? Does He not even in judgment remember mercy? Sensible that 'afflictions
are but blessings in disguise,' I would bless the hand that, with infinite kindness, wounds
only to heal, and love and adore the goodness of God equally in suffering as in rejoicing.

"The disinterested love to God, which you think is alone the genuine love, I see not how we
can be certain we possess, when our love of happiness and our love of God are so inseparably
connected. The joys arising from a consciousness that God is a benefactor to me and my friends,
(and when I think of God, every creature is my friend,) if arising from a selfish motive, it
does not seem to me possible could be changed into hate, even supposing God my enemy, whilst
I regarded Him as a Being infinitely just as well as good. If God is my enemy, it must be because
I deserve He should be such; and it does not seem to me possible that I should hate Him, even
if I knew He would always be so.

"In what you say of willingness to suffer eternal punishment, I don't know that I understand
what the feeling is. Is it wickedness in me that I do not feel a willingness to be left to
eternal sin? Can any one joyfully acquiesce in being thus left? When I pray for a new heart
and a right spirit, must I be willing to be denied, and rejoice that my prayer is not heard?
Could any real Christian rejoice in this? But he fears it not,--he knows it will never be,--he
therefore can cheerfully leave it with God; and so can I.

"Such, my dear friend, are my thoughts, poor and unworthy; yet they seem to me as certain as
my life, or as anything I see. Am I unduly confident? I ask your prayers that I may be guided
aright.

"Your affectionate friend,

"MARY."

There are in this world two kinds of natures,--those that have wings, and those that have feet,--the
winged and the walking spirits. The walking are the logicians: the winged are the instinctive
and poetic. Natures that must always walk find many a bog, many a thicket, many a tangled brake,
which God's happy little winged birds flit over by one noiseless flight. Nay, when a man has
toiled till his feet weigh too heavily with the mud of earth to enable him to walk another
step, these little birds will often cleave the air in a right line towards the bosom of God,
and show the way where he could never have found it.

The Doctor paused in his ponderous and heavy reasonings to read this real woman's letter; and
being a loving man, he felt as if he could have kissed the hem of her garment who wrote it.

Mrs. Scudder's motherly eye noticed, with satisfaction, these quiet communings. "Let it alone,"
she said to herself; "before she knows it, she will find herself wholly under his influence."
Mrs. Scudder was a wise woman.

CHAPTER XIX.

In the course of a day or two, a handsome carriage drew up in front of Mrs. Scudder's cottage,
and a brilliant party alighted. They were Colonel and Madame de Frontignac, the Abbe Lefon,
and Colonel Burr. Mrs. Scudder and her daughter, being prepared for the call, sat in afternoon
dignity and tranquillity, in the best room, with their knitting-work.

Madame de Frontignac had divined, with the lightning-like tact which belongs to women in the
positive, and to French women in the superlative degree, that there was something in the cottage-girl,
whom she had passingly seen at the party, which powerfully affected the man whom she loved
with all the jealous intensity of a strong nature, and hence she embraced eagerly the opportunity
to see her,--yes, to see her, to study her, to dart her keen French wit through her, and detect
the secret of her charm, that she, too, might practise it.

Madame de Frontignac was one of those women whose beauty is so striking and imposing, that
they seem to kindle up, even in the most prosaic apartment, an atmosphere of enchantment. All
the pomp and splendor of high life, the wit, the refinements, the nameless graces and luxuries
of courts, seemed to breathe in invisible airs around her, and she made a Faubourg St. Germain
of the darkest room into which she entered. Mary thought, when she came in, that she had never
seen anything so splendid. She was dressed in a black velvet riding-habit, buttoned to the
throat with coral; her riding-hat drooped with its long plumes so as to cast a shadow over
her animated face, out of which her dark eyes shone like jewels, and her pomegranate cheeks
glowed with the rich shaded radiance of one of Rembrandt's pictures. Something quaint and foreign,
something poetic and strange, marked each turn of her figure, each article of her dress, down
to the sculptured hand on which glittered singular and costly rings,--and the riding-glove,
embroidered with seed-pearls, that fell carelessly beside her on the floor.

In Antwerp one sees a picture in which Rubens, who felt more than any other artist the glory
of the physical life, has embodied his conception of the Madonna, in opposition to the faded,
cold ideals of the Middle Ages, from which he revolted with such a bound. His Mary is a superb
Oriental sultana, with lustrous dark eyes, redundant form, jewelled turban, standing leaning
on the balustrade of a princely terrace, and bearing on her hand, not the silver dove, but
a gorgeous paroquet. The two styles, in this instance, were both in the same room; and as Burr
sat looking from one to the other, he felt, for a moment, as one would who should put a sketch
of Overbeck's beside a splendid painting of Titian's.

For a few moments, everything in the room seemed faded and cold, in contrast with the tropical
atmosphere of this regal beauty. Burr watched Mary with a keen eye, to see if she were dazzled
and overawed. He saw nothing but the most innocent surprise and delight. All the slumbering
poetry within her seemed to awaken at the presence of her beautiful neighbor,--as when one,
for the first time, stands before the great revelations of Art. Mary's cheek glowed, her eyes
seemed to grow deep with the enthusiasm of admiration, and, after a few moments, it seemed
as if her delicate face and figure reflected the glowing loveliness of her visitor, just as
the virgin snows of the Alps become incarnadine as they stand opposite the glorious radiance
of a sunset sky.

Madame de Frontignac was accustomed to the effect of her charms; but there was so much love
in the admiration now directed towards her, that her own warm, nature was touched, and she
threw out the glow of her feelings with a magnetic power. Mary never felt the cold, habitual
reserve of her education so suddenly melt, never felt herself so naturally falling into language
of confidence and endearment with a stranger; and as her face, so delicate and spiritual, grew
bright with love, Madame de Frontignac thought she had never seen anything so beautiful, and,
stretching out her hands towards her, she exclaimed, in her own language,--

"Mais, mon Dieu! mon enfant, que tu es belle!"

Mary's deep blush, at her ignorance of the language in which her visitor spoke, recalled her
to herself;--she laughed a clear, silvery laugh, and laid her jewelled little hand on Mary's
with a caressing movement.

"He shall not teach you French, ma toute belle" she said, indicating the Abbe, by a pretty,
wilful gesture; "I will teach you;--and you shall teach me English. Oh, I shall try so hard
to learn!" she said.

There was something inexpressibly pretty and quaint in the childish lisp with which she pronounced
English. Mary was completely won over. She could have fallen into the arms of this wondrously
beautiful fairy princess, expecting to be carried away by her to Dream-land.

Meanwhile, Mrs. Scudder was gravely discoursing with Colonel Burr and M. de Frontignac; and
the Abbe, a small and gentlemanly personage, with clear black eye, delicately-cut features,
and powdered hair, appeared to be absorbed in his efforts to follow the current of a conversation
imperfectly understood. Burr, the while, though seeming to be entirely and politely absorbed
in the conversation he was conducting, lost not a glimpse of the picturesque aside which was
being enacted between the two fair ones whom he had thus brought together. He smiled quietly
when he saw the effect Madame de Frontignac produced on Mary.

"After all, the child has flesh and blood!" he thought, "and may feel that there are more things
in heaven and earth than she has dreamed of yet. A few French ideas won't hurt her."

The arrangements about lessons being completed, the party returned to the carriage. Madame
de Frontignac was enthusiastic in Mary's praise.

"Cependant" she said, leaning back, thoughtfully, after having exhausted herself in superlatives,--"cependant
elle est devote,--et a dix-neuf comment cela se peut il?"

"It is the effect of her austere education," said Burr. "It is not possible for you to conceive
how young people are trained in the religious families of this country."

"But yet," said Madame, "it gives her a grace altogether peculiar; something in her looks went
to my heart. I could find it very easy to love her, because she is really good."

"The Queen of Hearts should know all that is possible in loving," said Burr.

Somehow, of late, the compliments which fell so readily from those graceful lips had brought
with them an unsatisfying pain. Until a woman really loves, flattery and compliment are often
like her native air; but when that deeper feeling has once awakened in her, her instincts become
marvellously acute to detect the false from the true. Madame de Frontignac longed for one strong,
unguarded, real, earnest word from the man who had stolen from her her whole being. She was
beginning to feel in some dim wise what an untold treasure she was daily giving for tinsel
and dross. She leaned back in the carriage, with a restless, burning cheek, and wondered why
she was born to be so miserable. The thought of Mary's saintly face and tender eyes rose before
her as the moon rises on the eyes of some hot and fevered invalid, inspiring vague yearnings
after an unknown, unattainable peace.

Could some friendly power once have made her at that time clairvoyant and shown her the reality
of the man whom she was seeing through the prismatic glass of her own enkindled ideality! Could
she have seen the calculating quietness in which, during the intervals of a restless and sleepless
ambition, he played upon her heart-strings, as one uses a musical instrument to beguile a passing
hour,--how his only embarrassment was the fear that the feelings he was pleased to excite might
become too warm and too strong, while as yet his relations to her husband were such as to make
it dangerous to arouse his jealousy! And if he could have seen that pure ideal conception of
himself which alone gave him power in the heart of this woman,--that spotless, glorified image
of a hero without fear, without reproach,--would he have felt a moment's shame and abasement
at its utter falsehood?

The poet says that the Evil Spirit stood abashed when he saw virtue in an angel form! How would
a man, then, stand, who meets face to face his own glorified, spotless ideal, made living by
the boundless faith of some believing heart? The best must needs lay his hand on his mouth
at this apparition; but woe to him who feels no redeeming power in the sacredness of this believing
dream,--who with calculating shrewdness uses this most touching miracle of love only to corrupt
and destroy the loving! For him there is no sacrifice for sin, no place for repentance. His
very mother might shrink in her grave to have him laid beside her.

Madame de Frontignac had the high, honorable nature of the old blood of France, and a touch
of its romance. She was strung heroically, and educated according to the notions of her caste
and church, purely and religiously. True it is, that one can scarcely call that education which
teaches woman everything except herself,--except the things that relate to her own peculiar
womanly destiny, and, on plea of the holiness of ignorance, sends her without one word of just
counsel into the temptations of life. Incredible as it may seem, Virginie de Frontignac had
never read a romance or work of fiction of which love was the staple; the regime of the convent
in this regard was inexorable; at eighteen she was more thoroughly a child than most American
girls at thirteen. On entrance into life, she was at first so dazzled and bewildered by the
mere contrast of fashionable excitement with the quietness of the scenes in which she had hitherto
grown up, that she had no time for reading or thought,--all was one intoxicating frolic of
existence, one dazzling, bewildering dream.

He whose eye had measured her for his victim verified, if ever man did, the proverbial expression
of the iron hand under the velvet glove. Under all his gentle suavities there was a fixed,
inflexible will, a calm self-restraint, and a composed philosophical measurement of others,
that fitted him to bear despotic rule over an impulsive, unguarded nature. The position, at
once accorded to him, of her instructor in the English language and literature, gave him a
thousand daily opportunities to touch and stimulate all that class of finer faculties, so restless
and so perilous, and which a good man approaches always with certain awe. It is said that he
once asserted that he never beguiled a woman who did not come half-way to meet him,--an observation
much the same as a serpent might make in regard to his birds.

The visit of the morning was followed by several others. Madame de Frontignac seemed to conceive
for Mary one of those passionate attachments which women often conceive for anything fair and
sympathizing, at those periods when their whole inner being is made vital by the approaches
of a grand passion. It took only a few visits to make her as familiar as a child at the cottage;
and the whole air of the Faubourg St. Germain seemed to melt away from her, as, with the pliability
peculiar to her nation, she blended herself with the quiet pursuits of the family. Sometimes,
in simple straw hat and white wrapper, she would lie down in the grass under the apple-trees,
or join Mary in an expedition to the barn for hen's eggs, or a run along the sea-beach for
shells; and her childish eagerness and delight on these occasions used to arouse the unqualified
astonishment of Mrs. Katy Scudder.

The Doctor she regarded with a naive astonishment, slightly tinctured with apprehension. She
knew he was very religious, and stretched her comprehension to imagine what he might be like.
She thought of Bossuet's sermons walking about under a Protestant coat, and felt vaguely alarmed
and sinful in his presence, as she used to when entering under the shadows of a cathedral.
In her the religious sentiment, though vague, was strong. Nothing in the character of Burr
had ever awakened so much disapprobation as his occasional sneers at religion. On such occasions
she always reproved him with warmth, but excused him in her heart, because he was brought up
a heretic. She held a special theological conversation with the Abbe, whether salvation were
possible to one outside of the True Church,--and had added to her daily prayer a particular
invocation to the Virgin for him.

The French lessons, with her assistance, proceeded prosperously. She became an inmate in Mrs.
Marvyn's family also. The brown-eyed, sensitive woman loved her as a new poem; she felt enchanted
by her; and the prosaic details of her household seemed touched to poetic life by her innocent
interest and admiration. The young Madame insisted on being taught to spin at the great wheel;
and a very pretty picture she made of it, too, with her earnest gravity of endeavor, her deepening
cheek, her graceful form, with some strange foreign scarf or jewelry waving and flashing in
odd contrast with her work.

"Do you know," she said, one day, while thus employed in the north room at Mrs. Marvyn's,--"do
you know Burr told me that princesses used to spin? He read me a beautiful story from the 'Odyssey,'
about how Penelope cheated her lovers with her spinning, while she was waiting for her husband
to come home;--he was gone to sea, Mary,--her true love,--you understand."

She turned on Mary a wicked glance, so full of intelligence that the snowdrop grew red as the
inside of a sea-shell.

"Mon enfant! thou hast a thought deep in here!" she said to Mary, one day, as they sat together
in the grass under the apple-trees.

"Why, what?" said Mary, with a startled and guilty look.

"Why, what? petite!" said the fairy princess, whimsically mimicking her accent. "Ah! ah! ma
belle! you think I have no eyes;--Virginie sees deep in here!" she said, laying her hand playfully
on Mary's heart. "Ah, petite!" she said, gravely, and almost sorrowfully, "if you love him,
wait for him,--don't marry another. It is dreadful not to have one's heart go with one's duty."

"I shall never marry anybody," said Mary.

"Nevare marrie anybodie!" said the lady, imitating her accents in tones much like those of
a bobolink. "Ah! ah! my little saint, you cannot always live on nothing but the prayers, though
prayers are verie good. But, ma chere," she added, in a low tone, "don't you ever marry that
good man in there; priests should not marry."

"Ours are not priests,--they are ministers," said Mary. "But why do you speak of him?--he is
like my father."

"Virginie sees something!" said the lady, shaking her head gravely; "she sees he loves little
Mary."

"Of course he does!"

"Of-course-he-does?--ah, yes; and by-and-by comes the mamma, and she takes this little hand,
and she says, 'Come, Mary!' and then she gives it to him; and then the poor jeune homme, when
he comes back, finds not a bird in his poor little nest. Oh, c'est ennuyeux cela!" she said,
throwing herself back in the grass till the clover-heads and buttercups closed over her.

"I do assure you, dear Madame!"--

"I do assure you, dear Mary, Virginie knows. So lock up her words in your little heart; you
will want them some day."

There was a pause of some moments, while the lady was watching the course of a cricket through
the clover. At last, lifting her head, she spoke very gravely,--

"My little cat! it is dreadful to be married to a good man, and want to be good, and want to
love him, and yet never like to have him take your hand, and be more glad when he is away than
when he is at home; and then to think how different it would all be, if it was only somebody
else. That will be the way with you, if you let them lead you into this; so don't you do it,
mon enfant."

A thought seemed to cross Mary's mind, as she turned to Madame de Frontignac, and said, earnestly,--

"If a good man were my husband, I would never think of another,--I wouldn't let myself."

"How could you help it, mignonne? Can you stop your thinking?"

Mary said, after a moment's blush,--

"I can try!"

"Ah, yes! But to try all one's life,--oh, Mary, that is too hard! Never do it, darling!"

And then Madame de Frontignac broke out into a carolling little French song, which started
all the birds around into a general orchestral accompaniment.

This conversation occurred just before Madame de Frontignac started for Philadelphia, whither
her husband had been summoned as an agent in some of the ambitious intrigues of Burr.

It was with a sigh of regret that she parted from her friends at the cottage. She made them
a hasty good-bye call,--alighting from a splendid barouche with two white horses, and filling
their simple best-room with the light of her presence for a last half-hour. When she bade good-bye
to Mary, she folded her warmly to her heart, and her long lashes drooped heavily with tears.

After her absence, the lessons were still pursued with the gentle, quiet little Abbe, who seemed
the most patient and assiduous of teachers; but, in both houses, there was that vague ennui,
that sense of want, which follows the fading of one of life's beautiful dreams! We bid her
adieu for a season;--we may see her again.

CHAPTER XX.

The summer passed over the cottage, noiselessly, as our summers pass. There were white clouds
walking in saintly troops over blue mirrors of sea,--there were purple mornings, choral with
bird-singing,--there were golden evenings, with long, eastward shadows. Apple-blossoms died
quietly in the deep orchard grass, and tiny apples waxed and rounded and ripened and gained
stripes of gold and carmine; and the blue eggs broke into young robins, that grew from gaping,
yellow-mouthed youth to fledged and outflying maturity. Came autumn, with its long Indian summer,
and winter, with its flinty, sparkling snows, under which all Nature lay a sealed and beautiful
corpse. Came once more the spring winds, the lengthening days, the opening flowers, and the
ever-renewing miracle of buds and blossoms on the apple-trees around the cottage. A year had
passed since the June afternoon when first we showed you Mary standing under the spotty shadows
of the tree, with the white dove on her hand--a year in which not many outward changes have
been made in the relations of the actors of our story.

Mary calmly spun and read and thought; now and then composing with care very English-French
letters, to be sent to Philadelphia to Madame de Frontignac, and receiving short missives of
very French-English in return.

The cautions of Madame, in regard to the Doctor, had not rippled the current of their calm,
confiding intercourse; and the Doctor, so very satisfied and happy in her constant society
and affection, scarcely as yet meditated distinctly that he needed to draw her more closely
to himself. If he had a passage to read, a page to be copied, a thought to express, was she
not ever there, gentle, patient, unselfish? and scarce by the absence of a day did she let
him perceive that his need of her was becoming so absolute that his hold on her must needs
be made permanent.

As to his salary and temporal concerns, they had suffered somewhat for his unpopular warfare
with reigning sins,--a fact which had rather reconciled Mrs. Scudder to the dilatory movement
of her cherished hopes. Since James was gone, what need to press imprudently to new arrangements?
Better give the little heart time to grow over before starting a subject which a certain womanly
instinct told her might be met with a struggle. Somehow she never thought without a certain
heart-sinking of Mary's look and tone the night she spoke with her about James; she had an
awful presentiment that that tone of voice belonged to the things that cannot be shaken. But
yet, Mary seemed so even, so quiet, her delicate form filled out and rounded so beautifully,
and she sang so cheerfully at her work, and, above all, she was so entirely silent about James,
that Mrs. Scudder had hope.

Ah, that silence! Do not listen to hear whom a woman praises, to know where her heart is! do
not ask for whom she expresses the most earnest enthusiasm! but if there be one she once knew
well, whose name she never speaks,--if she seem to have an instinct to avoid every occasion
of its mention,--if, when you speak, she drops into silence and changes the subject,--why,
look there for something! just as, when going through deep meadow-grass, a bird flies ostentatiously
up before you, you may know her nest is not there, but far off, under distant tufts of fern
and buttercup, through which she has crept with a silent flutter in her spotted breast, to
act her pretty little falsehood before you.

Poor Mary's little nest was along the sedgy margin of the sea-shore, where grow the tufts of
golden-rod, where wave the reeds, where crimson, green, and purple sea-weeds float up, like
torn fringes of Nereid vestures, and gold and silver shells lie on the wet wrinkles of the sands.

The sea had become to her like a friend, with its ever-varying monotony. Somehow she loved
this old, fresh, blue, babbling, restless giant, who had carried away her heart's love to hide
him in some far-off palmy island, such as she had often heard him tell of in his sea-romances.
Sometimes she would wander out for an afternoon's stroll on the rocks, and pause by the great
spouting cave, now famous to Newport dilettanti, but then a sacred and impressive solitude.
There the rising tide bursts with deafening strokes through a narrow opening into some inner
cavern, which, with a deep thunder-boom, like the voice of an angry lion, casts it back in
a high jet of foam into the sea.

Mary often sat and listened to this hollow noise, and watched the ever-rising columns of spray
as they reddened with the transpiercing beams of the afternoon sun; and thence her eye travelled
far, far off over the shimmering starry blue, where sails looked no bigger than miller's wings;
and it seemed sometimes as if a door were opening by which her soul might go out into some
eternity,--some abyss, so wide and deep, that fathomless lines of thought could not sound it.
She was no longer a girl in a mortal body, but an infinite spirit, the adoring companion of
Infinite Beauty and Infinite Love.

As there was an hour when the fishermen of Galilee saw their Master transfigured, his raiment
white and glistening, and his face like the light, so are there hours when our whole mortal
life stands forth in a celestial radiance. From our daily lot falls off every weed of care,--from
our heart-friends every speck and stain of earthly infirmity. Our horizon widens, and blue,
and amethyst, and gold touch every object. Absent friends and friends gone on the last long
journey stand once more together, bright with an immortal glow, and, like the disciples who
saw their Master floating in the clouds above them, we say, "Lord, it is good to be here!"
How fair the wife, the husband, the absent mother, the gray-haired father, the manly son, the
bright-eyed daughter! Seen in the actual present, all have some fault, some flaw; but absent,
we see them in their permanent and better selves. Of our distant home we remember not one dark
day, not one servile care, nothing but the echo of its holy hymns and the radiance of its brightest
days,--of our father, not one hasty word, but only the fulness of his manly vigor and noble
tenderness,--of our mother, nothing of mortal weakness, but a glorified form of love,--of our
brother, not one teasing, provoking word of brotherly freedom, but the proud beauty of his
noblest hours,--of our sister, our child, only what is fairest and sweetest.

This is to life the true ideal, the calm glass, wherein looking, we shall see, that, whatever
defects cling to us, they are not, after all, permanent, and that we are tending to something
nobler than we yet are;--it is "the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the
purchased possession." In the resurrection we shall see our friends forever as we see them
in these clairvoyant hours.

We are writing thus on and on, linking image and thought and feeling, and lingering over every
flower, and listening to every bird, because just before us there lies a dark valley, and we
shrink and tremble to enter it.

But it must come, and why do we delay?

Towards evening, one afternoon in the latter part of June, Mary returned from one of these
lonely walks by the sea, and entered the kitchen. It was still in its calm and sober cleanness;--the
tall clock ticked with a startling distinctness. From the half-closed door of her mother's
bedroom, which stood ajar, she heard the chipper of Miss Prissy's voice. She stayed her light
footsteps, and the words that fell on her ear were these:--

"Miss Marvyn fainted dead away;--she stood it till he came to that; but then she just clapped
both hands together, as if she'd been shot, and fell right forward on the floor in a faint!"

What could this be? There was a quick, intense whirl of thoughts in Mary's mind, and then came
one of those awful moments when the powers of life seem to make a dead pause and all things
stand still; and then all seemed to fail under her, and the life to sink down, down, down,
till nothing was but one dim, vague, miserable consciousness.

Mrs. Scudder and Miss Prissy were sitting, talking earnestly, on the foot of the bed, when
the door opened noiselessly, and Mary glided to them like a spirit,--no color in check or lip,--her
blue eyes wide with calm horror; and laying her little hand, with a nervous grasp, on Miss
Prissy's arm, she said,--

"Tell me,--what is it?--is it?--is he--dead?"

The two women looked at each other, and then Mrs. Scudder opened her arms.

"My daughter!"

"Oh! mother! mother!"

Then fell that long, hopeless silence, broken only by hysteric sobs from Miss Prissy, and answering
ones from the mother; but she lay still and quiet, her blue eyes wide and clear, making an
inarticulate moan.

"Oh! are they sure?--can it be?--is he dead?" at last she gasped.

"My child, it is too true; all we can say is, 'Be still, and know that I am God!'"

"I shall try to be still, mother," said Mary, with a piteous, hopeless voice, like the bleat
of a dying lamb; "but I did not think he could die! I never thought of that!--I never thought
of it!--Oh! mother! mother! mother! oh! what shall I do?"

They laid her on her mother's bed,--the first and last resting-place of broken hearts,--and
the mother sat down by her in silence. Miss Prissy stole away into the Doctor's study, and
told him all that had happened.

"It's the same to her," said Miss Prissy, with womanly reserve, "as if he'd been an own brother."

"What was his spiritual state?" said the Doctor, musingly.

Miss Prissy looked blank, and answered mournfully,--

"I don't know."

The Doctor entered the room where Mary was lying with closed eyes. Those few moments seemed
to have done the work of years,--so pale, and faded, and sunken she looked; nothing but the
painful flutter of the eyelids and lips showed that she yet breathed. At a sign from Mrs. Scudder,
he kneeled by the bed, and began to pray,--"Lord, thou hast been our dwelling-place in all
generations,"--prayer deep, mournful, upheaving like the swell of the ocean, surging upward,
under the pressure of mighty sorrows, towards an Almighty heart.

The truly good are of one language in prayer. Whatever lines or angles of thought may separate
them in other hours, when they pray in extremity, all good men pray alike. The Emperor Charles
V. and Martin Luther, two great generals of opposite faiths, breathed out their dying struggle
in the self-same words.

There be many tongues and many languages of men,--but the language of prayer is one by itself,
in all and above all. It is the inspiration of that Spirit that is ever working with our spirit,
and constantly lifting us higher than we know, and, by our wants, by our woes, by our tears,
by our yearnings, by our poverty, urging us, with mightier and mightier force, against those
chains of sin which keep us from our God.

So the voice of supplication, upheaving from that great heart, so childlike in its humility,
rose with a wisdom and a pathos beyond what he dreamed in his intellectual hours; it uprose
even as a strong angel, whose brow is solemnly calm, and whose wings shed healing dews of paradise.

CHAPTER XXI.

The next day broke calm and fair. The robins sang remorselessly in the apple-tree, and were
answered by bobolink, oriole, and a whole tribe of ignorant little bits of feathered happiness
that danced among the leaves. Golden and glorious unclosed those purple eyelids of the East,
and regally came up the sun; and the treacherous sea broke into ten thousand smiles, laughing
and dancing with every ripple, as unconsciously as if no form dear to human hearts had gone
down beneath it. Oh! treacherous, deceiving beauty of outward things! beauty, wherein throbs
not one answering nerve to human pain!

Mary rose early and was about her morning work. Her education was that of the soldier, who
must know himself no more, whom no personal pain must swerve from the slightest minutiae of
duty. So she was there, at her usual hour, dressed with the same cool neatness, her brown hair
parted in satin bands, and only the colorless cheek and lip differing from the Mary of yesterday.

How strange this external habit of living! One thinks how to stick in a pin, and how to tie
a string,--one busies one's self with folding robes, and putting away napkins, the day after
some stroke that has cut the inner life in two, with the heart's blood dropping quietly at
every step.

Yet it is better so! Happy those whom stern principle or long habit or hard necessity calls
from the darkened room, the languid trance of pain, in which the wearied heart longs to indulge,
and gives this trite prose of common life, at which our weak and wearied appetites so revolt!
Mary never thought of such a thing as self-indulgence;--this daughter of the Puritans had her
seed within her. Aerial in her delicacy, as the blue-eyed flax-flower with which they sowed
their fields, she had yet its strong fibre, which no stroke of the flail could break; bruising
and hackling only made it fitter for uses of homely utility. Mary, therefore, opened the kitchen-door
at dawn, and, after standing one moment to breathe the freshness, began spreading the cloth
for an early breakfast. Mrs. Scudder, the mean while, was kneading the bread that had been
set to rise over-night; and the oven was crackling and roaring with a large-throated, honest
garrulousness.

But, ever and anon, as the mother worked, she followed the motions of her child anxiously.

"Mary, my dear," she said, "the eggs are giving out; hadn't you better run to the barn and
get a few?"

Most mothers are instinctive philosophers. No treatise on the laws of nervous fluids could
have taught Mrs. Scudder a better role for this morning, than her tender gravity, and her constant
expedients to break and ripple, by changing employments, that deep, deadly under-current of
thoughts which she feared might undermine her child's life.

Mary went into the barn, stopped a moment, and took out a handful of corn to throw to her hens,
who had a habit of running towards her and cocking an expectant eye to her little hand, whenever
she appeared. All came at once flying towards her,--speckled, white, and gleamy with hues between
of tawny orange-gold,--the cocks, magnificent with the bladelike waving of their tails,--and,
as they chattered and cackled and pressed and crowded about her, pecking the corn, even where
it lodged in the edge of her little shoes, she said, "Poor things, I am glad they enjoy it!"--and
even this one little act of love to the ignorant fellowship below her carried away some of
the choking pain which seemed all the while suffocating her heart. Then, climbing into the
hay, she sought the nest and filled her little basket with eggs, warm, translucent, pinky-white
in their freshness. She felt, for a moment, the customary animation in surveying her new treasures;
but suddenly, like a vision rising before her, came a remembrance of once when she and James
were children together and had been seeking eggs just there. He flashed before her eyes, the
bright boy with the long black lashes, the dimpled cheeks, the merry eyes, just as he stood
and threw the hay over her when they tumbled and laughed together,--and she sat down with a
sick faintness, and then turned and walked wearily in.

[To be continued.]

ROBA DI ROMA.

[Continued.]

CHAPTER III.

BEGGARS IN ROME.

Directly above the Piazza di Spagna and opposite to the Via di Condotti, rise the double towers
of the Trinita de' Monti. The ascent to them is over one hundred and thirty-five steps, planned
with considerable skill, so as to mask the steepness of the Pincian, and forming the chief
feature of the Piazza. Various landings and dividing walls break up their monotony; and a red
granite obelisk, found in the gardens of Sallust, crowns the upper terrace in front of the
church. All day long, these steps are flooded with sunshine, in which, stretched at length,
or gathered in picturesque groups, models of every age and both sexes bask away the hours when
they are free from employment in the studios. Here, in a rusty old coat and long white beard
and hair, is the Padre Eterno, so called from his constantly standing as model for the First
Person of the Trinity in religious pictures. Here is the ferocious bandit, with his thick black
beard and conical hat, now off duty, and sitting with his legs wide apart, munching in alternate
bites an onion, which he holds in one hand, and a lump of bread, which he holds in the other.
Here is the contadina, who is always praying at a shrine with upcast eyes, or lifting to the
Virgin the little child, among whose dark curls, now lying tangled in her lap, she is on a
vigorous hunt for the animal whose name denotes love. Here is the invariable pilgrim, with
his scallop-shell, who has been journeying to St. Peter's and reposing by the way near aqueducts
or broken columns so long that the memory of man runneth not to the contrary, and who is now
fast asleep on his back, with his hat pulled over his eyes. When the forestieri come along,
the little ones run up and thrust out their hands for baiocchi; and so pretty are they, with
their large, black, lustrous eyes, and their quaint, gay dresses, that new comers always find
something in their pockets for them. Sometimes a group of artists, passing by, will pause and
steadily examine one of these models, turn him about, pose him, point out his defects and excellences,
give him a baiocco, and pass on. It is, in fact, the model's exchange. [Footnote: During this
last winter, the government have prohibited the models, for I know not what reason, from gathering
upon these steps; and they now congregate at the corner of the Via Sistina and Capo le Case,
near the Pizzicheria, from which they supply themselves with groceries.]

All this is on the lower steps, close to the Piazza di Spagna; but as one ascends to the last
platform, before reaching the upper piazza in front of the Trinita de' Monti, a curious squat
figure, with two withered and crumpled legs, spread out at right angles and clothed in long
stockings, comes shuffling along on his knees and hands, which are protected by clogs. As it
approaches, it turns suddenly up from its quadrupedal position, takes off its hat, shows a
broad, stout, legless torso, with a vigorous chest and a ruddy face, as of a person who has
come half-way up from below the steps through a trap-door, and with a smile whose breadth is
equalled only by the cunning which lurks round the corners of the eyes, says, in the blandest
and most patronizing tones, with a rising inflection, "Buon giorno, Signore! Oggi fa bel tempo,"
or "fa cattivo tempo," as the case may be. This is no less a person than Beppo, King of the
Beggars, and permanent bore of the Scale di Spagna. He is better known to travellers than the
Belvedere Torso of Hercules at the Vatican, and has all the advantage over that wonderful work,
of having an admirable head and a good digestion. Hans Christian Andersen has celebrated him
in "The Improvvisatore," and unfairly attributed to him an infamous character and life; but
this account is purely fictitious, and is neither vero nor ben trovato. Beppo, like other distinguished
personages, is not without a history. The Romans say of him, "Era un Signore in paese suo"--"He
was a gentleman in his own country,"--and this belief is borne out by a certain courtesy and
style in his bearing which would not shame the first gentleman in the land. He was undoubtedly
of a good family in the provinces, and came to Rome, while yet young, to seek his fortune.
His crippled condition cut him off from any active employment, and he adopted the profession
of a mendicant, as being the most lucrative and requiring the least exertion. Remembering Belisarius,
he probably thought it not beneath his own dignity to ask for an obolus. Should he be above
doing what a general had done? However this may be, he certainly became a mendicant, after
changing his name,--and, steadily pursuing this profession for more than a quarter of a century,
by dint of his fair words, his bland smiles, and his constant "Fa buon tempo" and "Fa cattivo
tempo," which, together with his withered legs, were his sole stock in starting, he has finally
amassed a very respectable little fortune. He is now about fifty-five years of age, has a wife
and several children; and a few years ago, on the marriage of a daughter to a very respectable
tradesman, he was able to give her what was considered in Rome a more than respectable dowry.
The other day, a friend of mine met a tradesman of his acquaintance running up the Spanish steps.

"Dove andate in una tanta affretta?" he inquired.

"Al Banchiere mio."

"Al Banchiere? Ma quale Banchiere sta in su le scale?"

"Ma Beppo," was the grave answer. "Ho bisogna di sessanta scudi, e lui mele prestera senza
difficolta."

"Da vero?" said my friend.

"Eh sicuro, come gli pare," said the other, as he went on to his banker. [Footnote: "Where
are you going in such haste?"]

"To my banker."

"To your banker? But what banker is there above the steps?"

"Only Beppo. I want sixty scudi, and he can lend them to ma without difficulty."

"Really?"

"Of course."

Beppo hires his bank--which is the upper platform of the steps--of the government, at a small
rent per annum; and woe to any poor devil of his profession who dares to invade his premises!
Hither, every fair day, at about noon, he comes mounted on his donkey and accompanied by his
valet, a little boy, who, though not lame exactly, wears a couple of crutches as a sort of
livery,--and as soon as twilight begins to thicken and the sun is gone, he closes his bank,
(it is purely a bank of deposit,) crawls up the steps, mounts a stone post, and there majestically
waits for his valet to bring the donkey. But he no more solicits deposits. His day is done;
his bank is closed; and from his post he looks around, with a patronizing superiority, upon
the poorer members of his profession, who are soliciting, with small success, the various passers
by, as a king smiles down upon his subjects. The donkey being brought, he shuffles on to its
crupper and makes a joyous and triumphant passage down through the streets of the city to his
home. The bland business smile is gone. The wheedling subserviency of the day is over. The
cunning eye opens largely. He is calm, dignified, and self-possessed. He mentions no more the
state of the weather. What's Hecuba to him, at this free moment of his return? It is the large
style in which all this is done that convinces me that Beppo was a "Signore in paese suo."
He has a bank, and so has Sir Francis Baring. What of that? He is a gentleman still. The robber
knights and barons demanded toll of those who passed their castles, with violence and threats,
and at the bloody point of their swords. Whoso passes Beppo's castle is prayed in courtesy
to leave a remembrance, and receives the blandest bow and thanks in return. Shall we, then,
say, the former are nobles and gentlemen,--the other is a miserable beggar? Is it worse to
ask than to seize? Is it meaner to thank than to threaten? If he who is supported by the public
is a beggar, our kings are beggars, our pensions are charity. Did not the Princess Royal hold
out her hand, the other day, to the House of Commons? and does any one think the worse of her
for it? We are all, in measure, beggars; but Beppo, in the large style of kings and robber-barons,
asks for his baiocco, and, like the merchant-princes, keeps his bank. I see dukes and guardie
nobili, in shining helmets, spurs, and gigantic boots, ride daily through the streets on horseback,
and hurry to their palaces; but Beppo, erectly mounted on his donkey in his short-jacket, (for
he disdains the tailored skirts of a fashionable coat, though at times over his broad shoulders
a great blue cloak is grandly thrown, after the manner of the ancient emperors,) is far more
impressive, far more princely, as he slowly and majestically moves at nightfall towards his
august abode. The shadows close around him as he passes along; salutations greet him from the
damp shops; and darkness at last swallows up for a time the great square torso of the "King
of the Beggars."

Begging, in Rome, is as much a profession as praying and shop-keeping. Happy is he who is born
stroppiato, with a withered limb, or to whom Fortune sends the present of a hideous accident
or malady; it is a stock to set up trade upon. St. Vitus's dance is worth its hundreds of scudi
annually; epileptic fits are also a prize; and a distorted leg and hare-lip have a considerable
market value. Thenceforth the creature who has the luck to have them is absolved from labor.
He stands or lies in the sun, or wanders through the Piazza, and sings his whining, lamentable
strophe of, "Signore, povero stroppiato, datemi qualche cosa per amor di Dio!"--and when the
baiocco falls into his hat, like ripe fruit from the tree of the stranger, he chants the antistrophe,
"Dio la benedica, la Madonna e tutti santi!" [Footnote: Signore, a poor cripple; "give me something,
for the love of God!--May God bless you, the Madonna, and all the saints!"] No refusal but
one does he recognize as final,--and that is given, not by word of mouth, but by elevating
the fore-finger of the right hand, and slowly wagging it to and fro. When this finger goes
up he resigns all hope, as those who pass the gate of the Inferno, replaces his hat and lapses
into silence, or turns away to some new group of sunny-haired foreigners. The recipe to avoid
beggars is, to be black-haired, to wear a full beard, to smoke in the streets, speak only Italian,
and shake the fore-finger of the right hand when besieged for charity. Let it not be supposed
from this that the Romans give nothing to the beggars, but pass them by on the other side.
This is quite a mistake. On the contrary, they give more than the foreigners; and the poorest
class, out of their little, will always find something to drop into their hats for charity.

The ingenuity which the beggars sometimes display in asking for alms is often humoristic and
satirical. Many a woman on the cold side of thirty is wheedled out of a baiocco by being addressed
as Signorina. Many a half-suppressed exclamation of admiration, or a prefix of Bella, softens
the hearts of those to whom compliments on their beauty come rarely. The other day, as I came
out of the city gate of Siena, a ragged wretch, sitting, with one stump of a leg thrust obtrusively
forward, in the dust of the road, called out, "Una buona passeggiata, Signorino mio!" (and
this although my little girl, of thirteen years, accompanied me.) Seeing, however, that I was
too old a bird for that chaff, he immediately added, "Ma prima pensi alia conservazione dell'
anima sua." [Footnote: "A pleasant walk, young gentleman!"--"But first pay heed to the salvation
of your soul."] A great many baiocchi are also caught, from green travellers of the middle
class, by the titles which are lavishly squandered by these poor fellows. Illustrissimo, Eccellenza,
Altezza, will sometimes open the purse, when plain "Mosshoe" will not.

The profession of a beggar is by no means an unprofitable one. A great many drops finally make
a stream. The cost of living is almost nothing to them, and they frequently lay up money enough
to make themselves very comfortable in their old age. A Roman friend of mine, Conte C., speaking
of them one day, told me this illustrative anecdote:--

"I had occasion," he said, "a few years ago, to reduce my family," (the servants are called,
in Rome, the family,) "and having no need of the services of one under-servant, named Pietro,
I dismissed him. About a year after, as I was returning to my house, after nightfall, I was
solicited by a beggar, who whiningly asked me for charity. There was something in the voice
which struck me as familiar, and, turning round to examine the man more closely, I found it
was my old servant, Pietro. 'Is that you, Pietro?' I said; 'you begging here in the streets!
what has brought you to this wretched trade?' He gave me, however, no very clear account of
himself, but evidently desired to avoid me when he recognized who I was. But, shocked to find
him in so pitiable a condition, I pressed my questions, and finally told him I could not bear
to see any one who had been in my service reduced to beggary; and though I had no actual need
of his services, yet, rather than see him thus, he might return to his old position as servant
in my house, and be paid the same wages as he had before. He hesitated, was much embarrassed,
and, after a pause, said,--'A thousand thanks, your Excellency, for your kindness; but I cannot
accept your proposal, because, to tell you the truth, I make more money by this trade of begging.'"

But though the beggars often lay by considerable sums of money, so that they might, if they
chose, live with a certain degree of comfort, yet they cannot leave off the habit of begging
after having indulged it for many years. They get to be avaricious, and cannot bring their
minds to spend the money they have. The other day, an old beggar, who used to frequent the
steps of the Gesu, when about to die, ordered the hem of her garment to be ripped up, saying
that there was money in it. In fact, about a thousand scudi were found there, three hundred
of which she ordered to be laid out upon her funeral, and the remainder to be appropriated
to masses for her soul. This was accordingly done, and her squalid life ended in a pompous
procession to the grave.

The great holidays of the beggars are the country festas. Thronging out of the city, they spread
along the highways, and drag, drive, roll, shuffle, hobble, as they can, towards the festive
little town. Everywhere along the road they are to be met,--perched on a rock, seated on a
bank, squatted beneath a wall or hedge, and screaming, with outstretched hand, from the moment
a carriage comes in sight until it is utterly passed by. As one approaches the town where the
festa is held, they grow thicker and thicker. They crop up along the road like toadstools.
They hold up every hideous kind of withered arm, distorted leg, and unsightly stump. They glare
at you out of horrible eyes, that look like cranberries. You are requested to look at horrors,
all without a name, and too terrible to be seen. All their accomplishments are also brought
out. They fall into improvised fits; they shake with sudden palsies; and all the while keep
up a chorus, half whine, half scream, which suffers you to listen to nothing else. It is hopeless
to attempt to buy them all off, for they are legion in number, and to pay one doubles the chorus
of the others. The clever scamps, too, show the utmost skill in selecting their places of attack.
Wherever there is a sudden rise in the road, or any obstacle which will reduce the gait of
the horses to a walk, there is sure to be a beggar. But do not imagine that he relies on his
own powers of scream and hideousness alone,--not he! He has a friend, an ambassador, to recommend
him to your notice, and to expatiate on his misfortunes. Though he himself can scarcely move,
his friend, who is often a little ragged boy or girl, light of weight and made for a chase,
pursues the carriage and prolongs the whine, repeating, with a mechanical iteration, "Signore!
Signore! datemi qualche cosa, Signore!" until his legs, breath, and resolution give out at
last; or, what is still commoner, your patience is wearied out or your sympathy touched, and
you are glad to purchase the blessing of silence for the small sum of a baiocco. When his whining
fails, he tries to amuse you; and often resorts to the oddest freaks to attract your notice.
Sometimes the little rascal flings himself heels over head into the dust, and executes somersets
without number, as if they had some hidden influence on the sentiment of compassion. Then,
running by the side of the carriage, he will play upon his lips with both hands, making a rattling
noise, to excite your curiosity. If you laugh, you are lost, and he knows it.

As you reach the gates of the town, the row becomes furious. There are scores of beggars on
either side the road, screaming in chorus. No matter how far the town be from the city, there
is not a wretched, maimed cripple of your acquaintance, not one of the old stumps who have
dodged you round a Roman corner, not a ragged baron who has levied toll for passage through
the public squares, a privileged robber who has shut up for you a pleasant street or waylaid
you at an interesting church, but he is sure to be there. How they got there is as inexplicable
as how the apples got into the dumplings in Peter Pindar's poem. But at the first ring of a
festa-bell, they start up from under ground, (those who are legless getting only half-way up,)
like Roderick Dhu's men, and level their crutches at you as the others did their arrows. An
English lady, a short time since, after wintering at Rome, went to take the baths at Siena
in the summer. On going out for a walk, on the first morning after her arrival, whom should
she meet but King Beppo, whom she had just left in Rome! He had come with the rest of the nobility
for recreation and bathing, and of course had brought his profession with him.

Owing to a great variety of causes, the number of beggars in Rome is very large. They grow
here as noxious weeds in a hot-bed. The government neither favors commerce nor stimulates industry.
Its policy is averse to change of any kind, even though it be for the development of its own
resources or of the energies of the people. The Church is Brahmanic, contemplating only its
own navel. Its influence is specially restrictive in Rome, because it is also the State there.
It restrains not only trade, but education; it conserves exploded ideas and usages; it prefers
not to grow, and looks with abhorrence upon change.

Literature may be said to be dead in Rome. There is not only no free press there, but no press
at all. The "Diario Romano" contains about as much news as the "Acta Diurna" of the ancient
Romans, and perhaps less. I doubt whether at present such facts as those given by Petronius,
in an extract from the latter, would now be permitted to be published. However, we know that
Augustus prohibited the "Acta Diurna,"--and the "Diario Romano" exists still; so that some
progress has been made. And it must be confessed that Tuscany is scarcely in advance of Rome
in this respect; and Naples is behind both. Even the introduction of foreign works is so strictly
watched and the censorship so severe, that few liberal books pass the cordon. The arguments
in favor of a censorship are very plain, but not very conclusive. The more compressed the energies
and desires of a people, the more danger of their bursting into revolution. There is no safety-valve
to passions and desires like the utterance of them,--no better corrective to false ideas than
the free expression of them. Freedom of thought can never be suppressed, and ideas kept too
long pent up in the bosom, when heated by some sudden crisis of passion, will explode into
license and fury. Let me put a column from Milton here into my own weak plaster; the words
are well known, but cannot be too well known. Here in Rome genius rots. The saddest words I
almost ever heard were from a young Italian of ability and esprit.

"Why," said I, in conversation with him, one day, "do you not devote your talents to some worthy
object, instead of frittering them away in dancing, chatting, fencing, and morning-calls?"

"What would you have me do?" he answered.

"Devote yourself to some course of study. Write something."

"Mio caro" was his reply, "it is useless. How can I write what I think? How can I publish what
I write? I have now manuscript works begun in my desk, which it would be better to burn. Our
only way to be happy is to be idle and ignorant. The more we know, the unhappier we must be.
There is but one avenue for ambition,--the Church. I was not made for that."

This restrictive policy of the Church makes itself felt everywhere, high and low; and by long
habit the people have become indolent and supine. The splendid robes of ecclesiastical Rome
have a draggled fringe of beggary and vice. What a change there might be, if the energies of
the Italians, instead of rotting in idleness, could have a free scope! Industry is the only
purification of a nation; and as the fertile and luxuriant Campagna stagnates into malaria,
because of its want of ventilation and movement, so does this grand and noble people. The government
makes what use it can, however, of the classes it exploits by its system; but things go in
a vicious circle. The people, kept at a stand-still, become idle and poor; idleness and poverty
engender vice and crime; crime fills the prisons; and the prisons afford a body of cheap slaves
to the government.

To-day, as I am writing, some hundreds of forcats, in their striped brown uniforms, are tugging
at their winches and ropes to drag the column of the Immaculate Virgin to its pedestal on the
Piazza di Spagna. By the same system of compulsory labor, the government, despite its limited
financial resources, is enabled to carry out public projects which, with well-paid workmen,
would be too expensive to be feasible. In this manner, for instance, for an incredibly small
sum, was built the magnificent viaduct which spans with its triple tier of arches the beautiful
Val di L'Arriccia. But, for my own part, I cannot look upon this system as being other than
very bad, in every respect. And when, examining into the prisons themselves, I find that the
support of these poor criminal slaves is farmed out by the government to some responsible person
at the lowest rate that is offered, generally for five or six baiocchi apiece per diem, and
often refarmed by him at a still lower rate, until the poor wretches are reduced to the very
minimum of necessary food as to quantity and quality, I confess that I cannot look with pleasure
on the noble viaduct at L'Arriccia, or the rich column to the Immaculate Virgin, erected by
the labor of their hands.

