L I F E AND PUBLIC SERVICES of JOHN QUINCY ADAMS, SIXTH PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES.

WITH THE EULOGY DELIVERED BEFORE THE LEGISLATURE OF NEW YORK.

BY WILLIAM H. SEWARD.

This text is an accurate reproduction of the original book with the following exceptions. Obvious
misspellings and typos have been corrected but contemporary usage is unchanged, e.g. "centre".
Sentences spanning pages have been joined to facilitate searches and analysis.

I encourage you to forgive the verbose style that suggests authors were paid by the word. The
gems of character description and contemporary viewpoints are worth the effort.

The book supports the observation "The news never changes, just the names." I am  encouraged
that the tone of politics is not much different today than it was at Adams' time. Things are
no worse. In spite of continual bickering, a few persons with good will, careful planning,
hard work and a thick skin can achieve wonderful results.

The following glossary contains unfamiliar (to me) terms.

abjuration
  Renounce under oath; forswear. Recant solemnly; repudiate. Give up.
  Abstain from.

abstemious
  Eating and drinking in moderation. Sparingly used. Restricted to bare
  necessities.

Aceldama
  A place with dreadful associations.

animadversion
  Strong criticism.

approbate
  Sanction officially; authorize.

arbitrament
  Arbitrating; arbitration. Judgment of an arbitrator or arbiter.

assiduity
  Persistent application or diligence; unflagging effort. Constant
  personal attention.

(a)thymy
  (Not) abounding with thyme; fragrant.

barouche
  Four-wheeled carriage with a collapsible top, two double seats inside
  opposite each other, and a box seat outside in front for the driver.

barque
  Sailing ship with three to five square-rigged  masts, except the after
  mast, which is fore-and-aft rigged. Small vessel propelled by oars or
  sails.

benison
  Blessing; a benediction.

cesural
  Pause in a line of verse dictated by sense or natural speech rhythm
  rather than by metrics. Pause in conversation.

chaplet
  Wreath or garland for the head.

Circean (Circe)
  A Greek goddess who turned Odysseus's men temporarily into swine but
  later gave him directions for their journey home.

coeval
  Originating or existing during the same period; lasting through the same
  era. One of the same era or period; a contemporary.

condign
  Deserved; adequate.

contemned
  Viewed with contempt; despised.

contumelies
  Rudeness or contempt arising from arrogance. Insolent or arrogant
  remarks or acts.

cortege
  Train of attendants of a distinguished person; a retinue. Ceremonial
  procession. Funeral procession.

demurrage
  Detention of a cargo conveyance during loading or unloading beyond the
  scheduled time of departure. Compensation paid for such detention.

deputed
  Appoint or authorize as a representative. Assign (authority or duties)
  to another; delegate.

descant
  Ornamental melody or counterpoint sung or played above a theme. Highest
  part sung in part music. Discussion or discourse on a theme.

descried
  Catch sight of (something difficult to discern). Discover by careful
  observation or scrutiny; detect:

didactic
  Intended to instruct. Morally instructive.

dilatory
  Intended to delay. Tending to postpone or delay.

discomfited
  Make uneasy or perplexed; disconcert. Thwart plans; frustrate.

disquisitions
  Formal discourse, often in writing.

doit
  Dutch coin, worth about half a farthing. A thing of small value.

effulgence
  Brilliant radiance.

elegiac
  Mourning for that which is irrecoverably past.

emoluments
  Payment for an office or employment; compensation.

encomiums
  Warm, glowing praise. Formal expression of praise; a tribute.

enervate
  Weaken or destroy strength or vitality.

ephemeral
  Lasting for a brief time. Living or lasting only for a day, as some
  plants or insects.

Episcopal
  Church governed by a bishop.

epithet
  Term to characterize a person or thing or as a descriptive substitute
  for the name or title of a person. Abusive or contemptuous word or
  phrase.

erudition
  Deep, extensive learning.

escutcheon
  Shield-shaped emblem bearing a coat of arms. Plate inscribed with a
  ship's name.

eternize
  Make eternal. Protract for an indefinite period. Make perpetually
  famous; immortalize.

eulogium
  Formal eulogy.

evanescent
  Vanishing or likely to vanish like vapor.

execration
  The act of cursing. A curse. Something cursed or loathed.

exigency
  Requiring much effort or immediate action. Pressing or urgent situation.

extirpate
  Pull up by the roots. Destroy totally; exterminate. Remove by surgery.

fain
  Happily; gladly.

garniture
  Garnish; embellishment.

gratulation
  To congratulate.

green withes
  Cords or bowstrings used to bind Samson; Judges 16:8.

habiliments
  Special dress or garb associated with an occasion or office.

hecatomb
  Large-scale sacrifice; sacrifice to the ancient Greek and Roman gods of
  100 oxen.

importunity
  Importunate request; an insistent or pressing demand.

indefeasible
  Cannot be annulled or made void.

ineffably
  Incapable of being expressed; indescribable, unutterable, unspeakable,
  taboo.

ingenuously
  Lacking in cunning, guile, or worldliness; artless. Openly
  straightforward or frank; candid.

importunate
  Troublesomely urgent or persistent in requesting.

intendant
  Administrative official serving a French, Spanish, or Portuguese
  monarch.

Jacobin
  Radical or extreme leftist. Radical republican during the French
  Revolution.

meed
  Fitting recompense. Merited gift or wage.

mensuration
  Process of measuring. Measurement of geometric quantities.

mole
  Massive stone wall constructed in the sea as a breakwater to protect an
  anchorage or a harbor. Anchorage or harbor enclosed by a mole.

munificence
  Liberal in giving; generous. Showing great generosity.

Nestor
  Hero celebrated as an elderly and wise counselor to the Greeks at Troy

obsequies
  Funeral rites or ceremonies.

octavo
  Page size, from 5 by 8 inches to 6 by 9-1/2 inches, of a book composed
  of printer's sheets folded into eight leaves. A book composed of octavo
  pages.

odium
  Strong dislike, contempt, or aversion. State of disgrace resulting from
  hateful or detestable conduct.

panegyric
  Formal public compliment. Elaborate praise.

parsimony
  Unusual or excessive frugality; extreme economy or stinginess.

patronymic
  Derived from the name of one's father or a paternal ancestor.

pertinacity
  Persistent determination.

Plenipotentiary
  Diplomatic agent, such as an ambassador, fully authorized to represent
  his government.

Presbyterian
  Church governed by elected elders.

probity
  Complete and confirmed integrity; uprightness.

proconsular
  Provincial governor of consular rank in the Roman Empire.

pusillanimity
  Cowardice.

recusant
  One of the Roman Catholics in England who incurred legal and social
  penalties in the 16th century and afterward for refusing to attend
  services of the Church of England. Dissenter; a nonconformist.

Sabine (River)
  River flowing into the Gulf of Mexico just East of Houston, Texas.

sagacity
  Discerning, sound in judgment, farsighted; wisdom.

Silesia
  Region of central Europe in southwest Poland and northern Czech
  Republic.

sinecure
  Position or office that requires little work but provides a salary.

spoliations
  Despoiling or plundering. Seizure of neutral vessels at sea by a
  belligerent power in time of war.

stivers
  Nickel coin used in the Netherlands and worth 1/20 of a guilder (about
  0.4 Euros in 2006). Something of small value.

TETE D'ARMEE
  Head of the Army.

thrall   (thraldom)
  Held in bondage; servitude; intellectually or morally enslaved.

tittle
  Small diacritic mark, such as an accent, vowel mark, or dot over an i.
  Tiniest bit; an iota.

umbrage
  Offense; resentment. Something that affords shade or shade itself.
  Vague indication; hint.

unction
  Anointing as part of a religious, ceremonial, or healing ritual.
  Ointment or oil. Something that serves to soothe; a balm.  Affected or
  exaggerated earnestness, especially in choice and use of language.

Unitarian
  Believes in the oneness of God as opposed to the Trinity. Historic
  Unitarians believed in the moral authority, but not the deity, of Jesus.
  Free thinkers and dissenters, evolving their beliefs by rationalism and
  humanism.

usurpation
  Usurping, especially the wrongful seizure of royal sovereignty. Wrongful
  seizure or exercise of authority. Encroachment.

vicissitudes
  Change or variation.

vituperation
  Abusive censure. Sustained, harshly abusive language.

votaries
  Persons bound by vows to live a life of religious worship or service.
  Devout adherents of a cult or religion. Persons fervently devoted to a
  leader or ideal; faithful followers. Persons filled with enthusiasm, as
  for a pursuit or hobby; enthusiasts.

Engraved from a Painting by A.B. Durand.

"THIS IS THE END OF EARTH--I AM CONTENT."

AUBURN: DERBY, MILLER AND COMPANY. 1849.

Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1849, by
                DERBY, MILLER & COMPANY,
In the Clerk's Office for the Northern District of New York.

STEREOTYPED BY THOMAS B. SMITH, 216 WILLIAM: STREET, N.Y.

TO THE

FRIENDS OF EQUAL LIBERTY

AND HUMAN RIGHTS

THROUGHOUT THE WORLD,

This Volume

IS RESPECTFULLY INSCRIBED.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The Publishers apologize for the delay in issuing this volume, which was
announced by them as in press, more than one year since, shortly after the
decease of its illustrious subject. Gov. Seward, in undertaking its
preparation, was well aware of the engrossing attention which his
professional duties required, but looked constantly for relaxation from
his multiplied business engagements, in the hope that he might be able to
complete the work commenced by him. It however became necessary for its
timely completion, to obtain the literary assistance of an able writer,
who has, under his auspices, completed the work. The Publishers
confidently believe, that it will in all respects, be received as a
faithful and impartial history of the Life of the "Old Man Eloquent," and
worthy a place in the library of every friend of liberty and humanity.
  AUBURN, April, 1849.

PREFACE.

The claims of this volume are humble. For more than half a century JOHN QUINCY ADAMS had occupied
a prominent position before the American people, and filled a large space in his country's
history. His career was protracted to extreme old age. He outlived political enmity and party
rancor. His purity of life--his elevated and patriotic principles of action--his love of country,
and devotion to its interests--his advocacy of human freedom, and the rights of man--brought
all to honor and love him. Admiring legislators hung with rapture on the lips of "the Old Man
Eloquent," and millions eagerly perused the sentiments he uttered, as they were scattered by
the press in every town and hamlet of the Western Continent. At his decease, there was a general
desire expressed for a history of his life and times. A work of this description was understood
to be in preparation by his family. It was not probable, however, that this could appear under
several years, and when published, would undoubtedly be placed, by its size and cost, beyond
the reach of the great mass of readers. In view of these circumstances, there was an evident
want of a volume of more limited compass--a book which would come within the means of the people
generally,--and adapted not only for libraries, and the higher classes of society, but would
find its way into the midst of those moving in the humbler walks of life. To supply this want,
the present work has been prepared. The endeavor has been made to compress within a brief compass,
the principal events of the life of Mr. Adams, and the scenes in which he participated; and
to portray the leading traits of character which distinguished him from his contemporaries.
It has been the aim to present such an aspect of the history and principles of this wonderful
man, as shall do justice to his memory, and afford an example which the youth of America may
profitably imitate in seeking for a model by which to shape their course through life. How
far this end has been attained, an intelligent and candid public must determine.

CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

The Ancestry, Birth, and Childhood of John Quincy Adams.

CHAPTER II.

John Quincy Adams studies Law--His Practice--Engages in Public Life --Appointed Minister to
the Hague.

CHAPTER III.

Mr. Adams transferred to Berlin--His Marriage--Literary Pursuits-- Travels in Silesia--Negotiates
Treaties with Sweden and Prussia-- Recalled to the United States.

CHAPTER IV.

Mr. Adams' Return to the United States--Elected to the Massachusetts Senate--Appointed U. S.
Senator--Supports Mr. Jefferson--Professor of Rhetoric and Belles Lettres--Appointed Minister
to Russia.

CHAPTER V.

Mr. Adams' arrival at St. Petersburg--His Letters to his Son on the Bible-- His Religious Opinions--Russia
offers Mediation between Great Britain and the United States--Proceeds to Ghent to negotiate
for Peace-- Visits Paris--Appointed Minister at St. James-Arrives in London.

CHAPTER VI.

Mr. Adams appointed Secretary of State--Arrives in the United States-- Public Dinners in New
York and Boston--Takes up his Residence in Washington--Defends Gen. Jackson in the Florida
Invasion--Recognition of South American Independence--Greek Revolution.

CHAPTER VII.

Mr. Adams' nomination to the Presidency--Spirited Presidential Campaign--No choice by the People--Election
goes to the House of Representatives--Mr. Adams elected President--His Inauguration--Forms
his Cabinet.

CHAPTER VIII.

Charges of Corruption against Mr. Clay and Mr. Adams--Mr. Adams enters upon his duties as President--Visit
of La Fayette--Tour through the United Slates--Mr. Adams delivers him a Farewell Address--Departs
from the United States.

CHAPTER IX.

John Adams and Thomas Jefferson--Their Correspondence--Their Death--Mr. Webster's Eulogy--John
Q. Adams visits Quincy--His Speech at the Public School Dinner in Faneuil Hall.

CHAPTER X.

Mr. Adams' Administration--Refuses to remove political opposers from office--Urges the importance
of Internal Improvements--Appoints Commissioners to the Congress of Panama--His policy toward
the Indian Tribes--His Speech on breaking ground for the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal--Bitter
opposition to his Administration--Fails of re-election to the Presidency--Retires from office.

CHAPTER XI.

Mr. Adams' multiplied attainments--Visited by Southern Gentlemen--His Report on Weights and
Measures--His Poetry--Erects a Monument to the memory of his Parents--Elected Member of Congress--Letter
to the Bible Society--Delivers Eulogy on Death of ex-President Monroe.

CHAPTER XII.

Mr. Adams takes his seat in Congress--His Position and Habits as a Member-- His Independence
of Party--His Eulogy on the Death of ex-President James Madison--His advocacy of the Right
of Petition, and Opposition to Slavery-- Insurrection in Texas--Mr. Adams makes known its ulterior
object.

CHAPTER XIII.

Mr. Adams presents Petitions for the Abolishment of Slavery--Opposition of Southern Members--Exciting
Scenes in the House of Representatives--Marks of confidence in Mr. Adams.

CHAPTER XIV.

