No. 218.] SATURDAY, DECEMBER 31. 640

  REPLIES:--

  School Libraries, by Weld Taylor, P. H. Fisher, &c.          640

  Trench on Proverbs, by T. J. Buckton, &c.                    641

  Major André                                                  643

  Passage in Whiston                                           645

  Helmets                                                      645

  Hampden's Death                                              646

  Peter Allan, by Shirley Hibberd                              647

  "Could we with ink," &c., by the Rev. Moses Margoliouth, &c. 648

  What Day is it at our Antipodes?                             648

  PHOTOGRAPHIC CORRESPONDENCE:--Aceto-Nitrate of
  Silver--On the Restoration of old Collodion                  649

  REPLIES TO MINOR QUERIES:--Admissions to Inns of Court--
  Inedited Lyric by Felicia Hemans--Derivation of Britain--
  Derivation of the Word Celt--"Kaminagadeyathooroosoomokanoogonagira"--
  Cash--"Antiquitas Sæculi Junentus Mundi"--Caves at Settle,
  Yorkshire--Character of the Song of the Nightingale--
  Inscriptions in Books--Door-head Inscription--Fogie--Sir W.
  Hewet--Ladies' Arms borne in a Lozenge--The Crescent--
  Abigail--Handbook to the Library of the British Museum--The
  Arms of Richard, King of the Romans--Greek and Roman
  Fortifications--Osbernus filius Herfasti--Devonianisms--Gentile
  Names of the Jews--Longevity--Reversible Names--Etymology of
  Eve--Manifesto of the Emperor Nicholas--Binometrical
  Verse--Gale of Rent                                          650

  MISCELLANEOUS:--
  Notes on Books, &c                                           655

  Books and Odd Volumes wanted                                 656

  Notices to Correspondents                                    656

  Advertisements                                               657

       *       *       *       *       *

Notes.

ST. STEPHEN'S DAY AND RILEY'S HOVEDEN.

In Roger de Hoveden's account of the accident which proved fatal to Leopold, Duke of Austria,
the jailer of Richard I. (Bohn's edit., vol. ii. p. 345.), St. Stephen's Day, on which it occurred,
is twice stated to be before Christmas Day, instead of after it. Is this an error of the author,
or of translator?[1] or are they right, and was St. Stephen's martyrdom in those times commemorated
on a different day from what it now is? I cannot find, on reference to the authorities within
my reach, that this last was the case. Mr. Riley does not notice the discrepancy at all.

In the translation of this Volume, a few errors have come under my observation, to which I
beg to call Mr. R.'s attention: 1. In his note on Corumphira's prophecy, at p. 36., he seems
to forget that the Mahometan year differs from the Julian by eleven or twelve days, and that
in consequence A. D. 1186 does not correspond to A. H. 564; in fact, the old astrologer is
perfectly correct in his chronology, more so than in his predictions, many of which were signally
falsified in the course of the next few years. 2. A mountain frequently mentioned by his author
as projecting into the sea at the boundary of Catalonia and Valencia, and called "Muncian,"
he says in a note at p. 151. is "probably Montserrat," which is far from either the sea or
the frontier; the maps of Spain all show, near the town of Vinaros on the east coast, a hill
on the sea-shore called "Monte Sia," which still, as then, forms the boundary in that direction
between the two provinces. 3. In his note at p. 156. on "Mount Gebel," the translator says,
"he (the author) probably means Stromboli;" surely the name of Mongibello, and the mention
of Catania a few lines farther down should have shown him that Etna only could be meant, although
part of the mistake is due to Hoveden himself, who talks of it as a separate island from Sicily.
Mr. Riley's other geographical notes are generally {638} correct, though a little more pains
might have greatly increased their number, to the elucidation of his author's account of the
Crusaders' proceedings in the East. 4. At p. 249. a well-known passage from Horace is ascribed
to Juvenal.

J. S. WARDEN.

[Footnote 1: The text in the Scriptores post Bedam reads:--"Eodam anno die S. Stephani protomartyris
infra natale Domini."]

       *       *       *       *       *

THE HOLY TRINITY CHURCH, HULL.

There is an error in the heading of one of the architectural notes appended to the Proceedings
of the Arch. Inst. held at York in 1846. From the description which is given (p. 38.), it is
plain that the above church is the one to which the note refers; not that of St. Mary's, which
is the title of the article.

The material of the whole church is not, also, "brick with stone dressings," as the note informs
us, only the chancel, south porch, and south transept; all the rest is of stone, and in a very
sad state of repair. A few years ago, the south transept was restored; but the ornamental part
was worked in such bad stone, that the crockets of the pinnacles have already begun to moulder
away. It is a curious fact, that Bishop Lyttleton, who visited Hull in 1756 for the express
purpose of "examining the walls of the town, and the materials of which the Holy Trinity Church
is constructed," should have stated in the Archæologia (vol. i. p. 146.) that there did not
appear to be "a single brick in or about the whole fabric, except a few in the south porch,
placed there of late years."

There is a matter of great archæological interest connected with the part of the church which
is built of brick; for, as there is reason to believe that the chancel was raised in the year
1285, there is good foundation for the supposition, that Hull was "the first town to restore
in this country the useful art of brickmaking" (Frost's Hull, p. 138.). The walls of the town,
which were erected by royal licence in 1322, and still standing with their gates and towers
in the time of Leland and Camden, are described by them as being of brick. Leland also says
(Itin., edit. Hearne, fol. 53.) that the greater part of the "houses of the town at that tyme
(Richard II.) was made al of brike."

R. W. ELLIOT.

Clifton.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Notes.

Italian-English (Vol. viii., p. 436.).--The following wholesale assassination of the English
language was perpetrated in the form of a circular, and distributed among the British residents
at Naples in 1832:

    "Joseph the Cook, he offer to one illuminated public and most
    particular for British knowing men in general one remarkable, pretty,
    famous, and splendid collection of old goods, all quite new, excavated
    from private personal diggings. He sells cooked clays, old marble
    stones, with basso-relievos, with stewing-pots, brass sacrificing pots,
    and antik lamps. Here is a stocking of calves heads and feets for
    single ladies and amateurs travelling. Also old coppers and
    candlesticks; with Nola jugs, Etruscan saucers, and much more
    intellectual minds articles; all entitling him to learned man's
    inspection to examine him, and supply it with illustrious protection,
    of which he hope full and valorous satisfaction.

    "N. B.--He make all the old thing brand new for gentlemans who has
    collections, and wishes to change him. He have also one manner quite
    original for make join two sides of different monies; producing one
    medallion, all indeed unique, and advantage him to sell by exportation
    for strange cabinets and museums of the exterior potentates."

V. T. STERNBERG.

American Names.--In the Journal of Thomas Moore, lately published in Lord John Russell's memoirs
of the poet, is the following passage, under date of October 18, 1818:

    "Some traveller in America mentions having met a man called Romulus
    Riggs; whether true or not, very like their mixture of the classical
    and the low."

The name was borne by a very respectable man, who, in the year 1801, was in partnership with
his brother Remus Riggs, as a broker in Georgetown, in the district of Columbia. Romulus, who
survived his brother, afterwards became an eminent merchant in Philadelphia, where he died
a few years ago.

UNEDA.

Philadelphia.

Rulers of the World in 1853.--Perhaps the following table, which I have recently met with in
a foreign journal, may be thought of sufficient interest to make a Note of. In these unsettled
times, and in case of a general war, how much might it be changed!

There are at present eighty-three empires, monarchies, republics, principalities, duchies,
and electorates.

There are six emperors, including his sable highness, Faustin I. of St. Domingo; sixteen kings,
numbering among them Jamaco, King of all the Mosquitoes, and also those of Dahomey and the
Sandwich Islands; five queens, including Ranavalona of Madagascar, and Pomare of the Society
Islands; eighteen presidents, ten reigning princes, seven grand dukes, ten dukes, one pope,
two sultans, of Borneo and Turkey; two governors, of Entre Rios and Corrientes; one viceroy,
of Egypt; one shah, of Persia; one imaun, of Muscat; one ameer, of Cabul; one bey, of Tunis;
and lastly; one director, of Nicaragua.

W. W.

Malta.

{639}

Revocation of the Edict of Nantes.--The immense loss sustained by France in all her great interests,
as affecting her civil and religious liberties, her commerce, trade, arts, sciences, not to
speak of the unutterable anguish inflicted upon hundred of thousands of individuals (among
whom were the writer's maternal ancestors,--their name, Courage), by the revocation of the
Edict of Nantes, has lately called into action the pens of some industrious and talented men
of letters, among whom M. Weiss is one of the most meritorious. His interesting work, I observe,
is about to receive an English dress. In the shape of a Note through your medium, in order
that the translator may avail himself of information which, possibly, may not have reached
him, it should be known that Mr. William Jones, one of the highly respected and accomplished
employés of the British Museum, has written a letter to the Journal des Débats (inserted in
its number of Nov. 30, and signed with his name), containing farther information of a painfully-absorbing
nature, from documents in the Museum, respecting the dragonnades, and the sufferings and persecutions
of a French pastor.

JOHN MACRAY.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

Queries.

DERIVATION OF SILO.

Can you or any of your correspondents inform me what is the derivation of the word silo?

For many years after the colony of New South Wales was founded, it was almost wholly dependent
upon the mother country for such supplies of grain, &c. as were necessary for the life and
health of its inhabitants; and, consequently, store ships were regularly despatched from our
shores to Sydney.

It happened however that, in consequence of wrecks and other disasters, the colonists were,
on more than one occasion, reduced to the greatest distress, and starvation almost began to
stare them in the face. Under these circumstances, one of the early governors of Sydney, to
prevent the recurrence of famine, gathered a large supply of corn and deposited it in granaries
which he had excavated out of the solid rock at the head of the bay, near the mouth of the
Paramatta River. These were termed silos or siloes: they were hermetically sealed up, and from
time to time the old corn was exchanged for new.

The supply of corn in these remarkable storehouses is still kept up; nor as late as the time
of my departure from those colonies last year, did I hear of any intention of discontinuing
this old custom.

Now the termination of this word in o marks it as Spanish; and accordingly, on reference to
Baretti's dictionary of that language, I find the word "SILO, a subterraneous granary." But,
Sir, this discovery only raises another question, and one which I wish much to see solved.
A Spanish substantive must be for the most part the name of something existing at some time
or other in Spain.

When, therefore, did such granaries exist in Spain, in what part of the country, and under
what circumstances?

AUGUSTUS STRONG.

Walcot Rectory, Bath.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries.

Handwriting.--I should be much obliged if any of your correspondents could inform me (and that
soon) whether there be published, in English, French, German, or Spanish (though it is most
desired in English), a manual giving a standard alphabet for the various kinds of writing now
in use, viz. English hand, engrossing, Italian, German text, &c., with directions for teaching
the same; in fact, a sort of writing-master's key: and if so, what is its title, and where
it can be procured.

A friend believes to have seen such a work advertised in The Athenæum (probably three or four
years ago), but has no recollection of the name.

E. B.

Rev. Joshua Brooks.--Can any of your numerous readers inform me as to the early history of
the late Rev. Joshua Brooks, who was for many years chaplain of the Collegiate Church, Manchester,
and who died in 1821?

C. (1.)

"New Universal Magazine."--I wish to know the time of the commencement and termination of the
The New Universal Magazine, or Lady's Polite Instructor.

A few volumes are in the British Museum. Vol. vi. is for July 1754 to January 1755.

D.

Francis Browne.--Anthony Browne, first Viscount Montague, married, secondly, Magdalen, daughter
of Lord Dacre of Gillesland, from whom descended (amongst others) Sir Henry Browne of Kiddington.
This Sir Henry married twice: his second wife was Mary Anne, daughter of Sir P. Hungate; by
her he had issue Sir Peter Browne, who died of wounds at Naseby. Sir Peter married Margaret,
daughter of Sir Henry Knollys, and had two sons, Henry and Francis. Did this Francis Browne
ever marry? and if so, whom, and when, and where?

NEWBURIENSIS.

Advent Hymn.--Why is this hymn not included amongst those at the end of the Book of Common Prayer?

Might it not be added to those already given for the other festivals of the Church, &c.? It
{640} would be an advantage in those churches where the Prayer Book Psalms are used, and might
avoid the necessity of having separate Psalm and Hymn Books; a custom much to be objected to,
differing as they do in different churches, as well as preventing strangers from taking part
in them.

WILLO.

Milton's Correspondence.--Has any English translation of Milton's Latin familiar Correspondence
been published; and if so, when and by whom?

CRANSTON.

"Begging the Question."--Will any correspondent explain this phrase, and give its origin?

CARNATIC.

Passage of Cicero.--I lately met with a writer of some deep learning and research, who, amongst
other topics, entered into the subject of musical inflection by orators, &c. Now, unfortunately,
the title and preface of the book is absent without leave, nor is there any heading to it,
so I can do no more than say, the author refers to a passage in these words:

    "Cicero declares that only three tones or variations of sound, or
    interval, were used in speaking in his time; whereas now our preachers,
    orators, and elocutionists take in a range of eight at least."

Will some indulgent reader of "N. & Q." tell me where such a passage occurs?

SEMI-TONE.

       *       *       *       *       *

Minor Queries with Answers.

Goldsmith's "Haunch of Venison."--What is the name in this poem beginning with H, which Goldsmith
makes to rhyme with "beef?" The metre requires it to be a monosyllable, but there is no name
that I have ever heard of that would answer in this place. Is the H a mistake for K, which
would give a well-known Irish name?

J. S. WARDEN.

    [A variation in the Aldine edition gives the line--

    "There's Coley and Williams, and Howard and Hiff."

    MR. BOLTON CORNEY, in his unrivalled edition of Goldsmith's Poetical
    Works, 1846, has furnished the following note:--"Howard=H. Howard?
    author of The Choice Spirits Museum, 1765; Coley=Colman, says
    Horace Walpole; H--rth=Hogarth? a surgeon of Golden Square;
    Hiff=Paul Hiffernan, M.D., author of Dramatic Genius, &c." Mr.
    Peter Cunningham, in his forthcoming edition of Goldsmith, will
    probably tell us more.

       *       *       *       *       *

Replies.

SCHOOL LIBRARIES.

(Vol. viii., pp. 220. 395. 498.)

When I mentioned the above subject in "N. & Q.," I admit that my meaning may have taken too
wide a signification. I, however, wrote advisedly, my object being to draw the attention of
those schools that were in fault, and in the hope of benefiting those that desired to do more.
I suppose I must exonerate Tonbridge, therefore, from any aspersion; and as it appears they
are well provided, from Bacon and Newton to Punch and the Family Friend, I am at a loss to
know how I can be of service.

Of the defects in popular education I am as sensible as the rest of the multitude appear to
be, and my particular view of the case would, I fear, be too lengthy a subject for these columns.
It is quite clear, however, that education is partial, and in some sort a monopoly; its valuable
branches being altogether out of the reach of more than half the population, and the staple
industry of the people not sufficiently represented,--as, for instance, the steam-engine. In
them there is not sufficient concentration, if I may use the term, of instruction; and the
requirements of many arts and trades insufficiently carried out; the old schools and old colleges
much too classical and mathematical. If this position is untrue, no popular scheme can be adopted
at present; but it appears more than probable that before long the subject will be brought
before the House of Commons, and education made accessible to all. As to the money for the
purpose, the country will never grudge that. The obstacle appears to lie more in persuading
the endless religious sects into which we are divided to shake hands over the matter.

At present my only desire is, that boys at public schools should have plenty of books, being
assured that reading while we are young leaves a very strong and permanent impression, and
cannot be estimated too highly; besides which, if a youth has access to works suited to his
natural bent, he will unconsciously lay in a store of valuable information adapted to his future
career.

WELD TAYLOR.

When I was at the College school, Gloucester, in 1794, there was a considerable library in
a room adjoining the upper school. I never knew the books used by the boys, though the room
was unlocked: in fact, it was used by the upper master as a place of chastisement; for there
was kept the block (as it was called) on which the unfortunate culprits were horsed and whipped.
The library, no doubt, contained many valuable and excellent works; but the only book of which
I know the name as having been in it (and that {641} only by a report in the newspapers of
the day) was Oldham's Poems, which, after a fire which occurred in the school-room, was said
to have been the only book returned of the many which had been taken away.

P. H. FISHER.

Stroud.

In Knight's Life of Dean Colet (8vo., London, 1724), founder of St. Paul's School, there is
a catalogue of the books in the library of the school at the date specified. The number of
the volumes is added up at the end of the catalogue, in MS., and the total amount is 663 volumes.
The latest purchases bear the date of 1723, and are:--Pierson (sic) On the Creed, Greenwood's
English Grammar, and Terentius In usum Delphini. The books for the most part are of a highly
valuable and standard character. Does the library still exist? have many additions been made
to it up to the present time? and is there a printed catalogue of it?

J. M.

Oxford.

       *       *       *       *       *

TRENCH ON PROVERBS.

(Vol. viii., pp. 387. 519.)

The error, which Luther was the first to fall into, in departing from the anciently received
version of Ps. cxxvii. 2., Mendelsohn adopted; but no translator of eminence has followed these
two Hebraists; although some critics have been carried away by their authority to the proper
Jewish notion of "gain," and not sleep, being the subject. Luther's version--"Denn seinen Freunden
gibt er es schlafend"--was certainly before the revisers of our authorised version of James
I.; but was rejected, I consider, as ungrammatical and false: ungrammatical, because the transitive
verb "give" (gibt) has no accusative noun; and false, because he supplies, without authority,
the place of the missing noun by the pronoun "it" (es), there being no antecedent to which
this it refers. Mendelsohn omits the it in his Hebrew comment, supplied however unauthorisedly
by MR. MARGOLIOUTH in his translation of such comment. But Mendelsohn introduces the "es" (it),
in his German version (Berlin, 1788, dedicated to Ramler), without however any authority from
the Hebrew original of this Psalm. He is therefore at variance with himself. And, farther,
he has omitted altogether the important word [Hebrew: KEIN] (so or thus), rendered "denn" (for)
by Luther.

As to the "unintelligible authorised version," I must premise that no version has yet had so
large an amount of learning bestowed on it as the English one; indeed it has fairly beaten
out of the field all the versions of all other sections of Christians. The difficulty of the
English version arises from its close adherence to the oriental letter; but if we put the scope
of this Psalm into the vernacular, such difficulty is eliminated.

Solomon says, in this Psalm: "Without Jehovah's support, my house will fall: if He keep this
city, the watch, with its early-risings, late-resting, and ill-feeding, is useless: thus He
(by so keeping or watching the city himself) gives sleep to him whom He loves." The remainder
of the Psalm refers to the increase of population as Jehovah's gift, wherein Solomon considers
the strength of the city to consist. The words in Italics correspond precisely in sense with
those of the authorised version--"For so He giveth His beloved sleep;" and the latter is supported
fully by all the ancient versions, and, as far as I can at present ascertain, by all the best
modern ones.

T. J. BUCKTON.

Lichfield.

What is there unintelligible in the authorised translation of Psalm cxxvii. 2., "He giveth
His beloved sleep?" It is a literal translation of three very plain words, of the simplest
grammatical construction, made in accordance with all the ancient versions. A difficulty there
does indeed exist in the passage, viz. in the commencing word [Hebrew: KN]; but this word,
though capable of many intelligible meanings, does not enter into the present question. Since
the great majority of critics have been contented to see no objection to the received translations,
it is perfectly allowable to maintain that the proposed rendering makes, instead of removing,
a difficulty, and obscures a passage which, as generally understood, is sufficiently lucid.
Hengstenberg's difficulty is, that the subject is not about the sleep, but the gain. But is
not sleep a gain? Can we forget the [Greek: hupnou dôron] of Homer? that is, sufficient, undisturbed
sleep, rest. Hengstenberg's remark, that all, even the beloved, must labour, is a mere truism.
The Psalmist evidently opposes excessive and over-anxious labours, interfering with natural
rest, to ordinary labour accompanied with refreshing sleep. The object of his censure is precisely
the [Greek: merimna] which forms the subject of our Lord's warning; who censures not due care
and providence, but over-anxiety. Burkius rightly remarks, that [Hebrew: SHN'] is antithetical
to surgere, sedere, dolorum. Hammond observes, with far more clearness and good sense than
Hengstenberg,

    "For as to the former of these, wicked men that incessantly moil, and
    cark, and drudge for the acquiring of it, and never enjoy any of the
    comforts of this life, through the vehement pursuit of riches, are
    generally frustrated and disappointed in their aims: whereas, on the
    contrary, those who have God's blessing thrive insensibly, become very
    prosperous, and yet never lose any sleep in the pursuit of it."

Bishop Horne agrees; his remarks having evident reference to Hammond's. So Bishop {642} Horsley,
more briefly, but with his usual force: "You take all this trouble for your security in vain,
whilst He gives His beloved sleep." Dr. French and Mr. Skinner adhere to the same sense in
their translation, and pertinently refer to Psalms iii. and iv., in which the Psalmist, though
beset by enemies, lies down and takes his rest, defended by God his Keeper. So far, indeed,
from seeing anything unintelligible, I see no obscurity, either of expression or connexion,
in this view, but very great obscurity in the double ellipsis now proposed. In the received
translation we have a transitive verb, and a noun, obviously its accusative, according to the
natural sequence and simple construction of the Hebrew language. In the proposed rendering
we must understand an accusative case after giveth (i.e. bread, as Rosenmüller and others observe),
and a particle before sleep. The transitive verb has no subject; the noun nothing to govern
it. We must guess at both.

As for the alleged instances of ellipses, I maintain they are not analogous. I cannot call
to mind any which are; and if any of your correspondents would show some they would do good
service. Hengstenberg's examples of [Hebrew: TSRB], [Hebrew: BQR], &c. are surely not in point.
We have a similar ellipsis, often used in idiomatic English, morning, noon, and night; but
who would say sleep, instead of in sleep, or while asleep? The ellipses in the Psalms, in the
Songs of Degrees themselves, are very numerous, but they are of a different nature; and neither
the position nor the nature of the word [Hebrew: SHN'] warrants that now defended, as far I
can remember.

May I remark, by the way, that the Psalm falls rather into three strophes than into two. The
first speaks of the raising up of the house, and of the city (an aggregation of houses), protected
by the Almighty. The last is in parallelism to the first, though, as often happens, expanded;
and speaks of the raising up of the family, and of the family arrived at maturity, the defenders
of the city, through the same protecting Providence. The central portion is the main and cardinal
sentiment, viz. the vanity of mere human labour, and the peace of those who are beloved of God.

JOHN JEBB.

There is a proverb which foretells peril to such as interpose in the quarrels of others. But
as neither Mr. Trench, nor E. M. B., nor MR. MARGOLIOUTH, have as yet betrayed any disposition
to quarrel about the question in dispute, a looker-on need not be afraid of interposing.

The Query, about the solution of which they differ, is the proper mode of rendering the last
clause of v. 2. Ps. cxxvii. In our Liturgy and Bible it is rendered, "For so He giveth His
beloved sleep;" of which E. M. B. says, "It seems to me to be correct;" though he justly observes
that "He will give" would be more close. Mr. Trench appears to have rendered it, "He giveth
His beloved in their sleep." MR. MARGOLIOUTH says "the words should be, He will give to His
beloved whilst he [the beloved] is asleep." In each case the Italics, as usual, designate words
not existing in the Hebrew text.

When expositors would get through a difficult passage, their readers have, not unfrequently,
the vexation of finding that a word of some importance has been ignored. Such has been the
case here with the little word [Hebrew: KN], which introduces the clause. Its ordinary meaning
is so; and the office of the word so, in such a position, is to lead the remind to revert to
what has been previously said, as necessary to the proper application of what follows. Now,
the Psalmist's theme was the vanity of all care and labour, unless the Lord both provide for
and watch over His people; for so He will give His beloved sleep--that happy, confiding repose
which the solicitude of the worldly cannot procure. This is, surely, intelligible enough and
even if [Hebrew: KN] may be translated for (which Noldius, in his Concordantia Particularum,
affirms that it here may, adducing however but one dubious instance of its being so used elsewhere,
viz. Jeremiah xiv. 10.), or if the various reading, [Hebrew: KY], be accepted, which would
mean for, our version of the clause will be quite compatible with either alteration.

In this concentrated proposition are contained, the mode of giving, so; the character of the
recipient, his beloved; and we reasonably expect to be next told what the Lord will give, and
the text accordingly proceeds to say, sleep. Whereas, if either Mr. Trench's or MR. MARGOLIOUTH's
version of the clause could properly be accepted, the gift would remain entirely unmentioned;
after attention had been called to the giver, to his mode of giving, and to the recipient who
might expect his bounty. But whilst Mr. Trench is constrained to interpolate in their, apparently
unconscious that the Hebrew requires beloved to be in the singular number, MR. MARGOLIOUTH
translates [Hebrew: SHN'] as if it were a participle, which Luther seems also to have heedlessly
done. Yet unless [Hebrew: SHN'] be a noun, derived with a little irregularity from [Hebrew:
YSHN], he slept, it has nothing to do with sleep. It cannot be the participle of [Hebrew: YSHN],
for that verb has a participle in the usual form, not wanting the initial [Hebrew: Y], which
occurs in several places in the Old Testament, and is used by Mendelsohn in the very sentence
MR. MARGOLIOUTH has quoted from that Jewish expositor. The critic who will not acknowledge
[Hebrew: SHN'] to be a noun in this clause, is therefore tied up to translating it as either
the participle or the preterite of [Hebrew: SHN'], to change, or to repeal, and would thus
make the clause really unintelligible.

HENRY WALTER.

{643}

N. B. inquires, whether the translation of Psalm cxxvii. 2. adopted by Mr. Trench has the sanction
of any version but that of Luther. I beg leave to inform him that the passage was translated
in the same manner by Coverdale: "For look, to whom it pleaseth Him He giveth it in sleep."
De Wette also, in modern times, has "Giebt er seinen Geliebten im Schlafe."

Vatablus, in his Annotations, approves of such a rendering: "Dabit in somno dilectis suis."
It has also been suggested in the notes of several modern critics.

Not one of the ancient versions sanctions this translation.

The sense of the passage will be much the same whichever of these translations be adopted.
But the common rendering appears to me to harmonise best with the preceding portion of it.

S. D.

       *       *       *       *       *

MAJOR ANDRÉ.

(Vol. viii., pp. 174. 604.)

