Our Sabbaths were days of rest.  The Christian Indians had been taught by their faithful missionaries
the fourth commandment, and they kept it well.  Although far from their homes and their beloved
sanctuary, they respected the day.  When they camped on Saturday night, all the necessary preparations
were made for a quiet, restful Sabbath.  All the wood that would be needed to cook the day's
supplies was secured, and the food that required cooking was prepared.  Guns were stowed away,
and although sometimes ducks or other game would come near, they were not disturbed.  Generally
two religious services were held and enjoyed.  The Testaments and hymn-books were well used
throughout the day, and an atmosphere of "Paradise Regained" seemed to pervade the place.

At first, long years ago, the Hudson's Bay Company's officials bitterly opposed the observance
of the Sabbath by their boatmen and tripmen; but the missionaries were true and firm, and although
persecution for a time abounded, eventually right and truth prevailed, and our Christian Indians
were left to keep the day without molestation.  And, as has always been found to be the case
in such instances, there was no loss, but rather gain.  Our Christian Indians, who rested the
Sabbath day, were never behindhand.  On the long trips into the interior or down to York Factory
or Hudson Bay, these Indian canoe brigades used to make better time, have better health, and
bring up their boats and cargoes in better shape, than the Catholic Half-breeds or pagan Indians,
who pushed on without any day of rest.  Years of studying this question, judging from the standpoint
of the work accomplished and its effects on men's physical constitution, apart altogether from
its moral and religious aspect, most conclusively taught me that the institution of the one
day in seven as a day of rest is for man's highest good.

Thus we journeyed on, meeting with various adventures by the way.  One evening, rather than
lose the advantage of a good wind, our party resolved to sail on throughout the night.  We
had no compass or chart, no moon or fickle Auroras lit up the watery waste.  Clouds, dark and
heavy, flitted by, obscuring the dim starlight, and adding to the risk and danger of our proceeding.
On account of the gloom part of the crew were kept on the watch continually.  The bowsman,
with a long pole in his hands, sat in the prow of the boat, alert and watchful.  For a long
time I sat with the steersman in the stern of our little craft, enjoying this weird way of
travelling.  Out of the darkness behind us into the vague blackness before us we plunged. 
Sometimes through the darkness came the sullen roar and dash of waves against the rocky isles
or dangerous shore near at hand, reminding us of the risks we were running, and what need there
was of the greatest care.

Our camp bed had been spread on some boards in the hinder part of our little boat; and here
Mrs Young, who for a time had enjoyed the exciting voyage, was now fast asleep.  I remained
up with "Big Tom" until after midnight; and then, having exhausted my stock of Indian words
in conversation with him, and becoming weary, I wrapped a blanket around myself and lay down
to rest.  Hardly had I reached the land of dreams, when I was suddenly awakened by being most
unceremoniously thrown, with wife, bedding, bales, boxes, and some drowsy Indians, on one side
of the boat.  We scrambled up as well as we could, and endeavoured to take in our situation.
The darkness was intense, but we could easily make out the fact that our boat was stuck fast.
The wind whistled around us, and bore with such power upon our big sail that the wonder was
that it did not snap the mast or ropes.  The sail was quickly lowered, a lantern was lit, but
its flickering light showed no land in view.

We had run upon a submerged rock, and there we were held fast.  In vain the Indians, using
their big oars as poles, endeavoured to push the boat back into deep water.  Finding this impossible,
some of them sprang out into the water which threatened to engulf them; but, with the precarious
footing the submerged rock gave them, they pushed and shouted, when, being aided by a giant
wave, the boat at last was pushed over into the deep water beyond.  At considerable risk and
thoroughly drenched, the brave fellows scrambled on board; the sail was again hoisted, and
away we sped through the gloom and darkness.

CHAPTER THREE.

ARRIVAL AT NORWAY HOUSE--OUR NEW HOME--REVEREND CHARLES STRINGFELLOW-- THUNDERSTORM--REVEREND
JAMES EVANS--SYLLABIC CHARACTERS INVENTED-- DIFFICULTIES OVERCOME--HELP FROM ENGLISH WESLEYAN
MISSIONARY SOCIETY-- EXTENSIVE USE OF THE SYLLABIC CHARACTERS--OUR PEOPLE, CHRISTIAN AND PAGAN--LEARNING
LESSONS BY DEAR EXPERIENCE--THE HUNGRY WOMAN--THE MAN WITH THE TWO DUCKS--THE FIRST SABBATH
IN OUR NEW FIELD--SUNDAY SCHOOL AND SABBATH SERVICES--FAMILY ALTARS.

We reached Norway House on the afternoon of the 29th of July, 1868, and received a very cordial
welcome from James Stewart, Esquire, the gentleman in charge of this Hudson's Bay post.  This
is one of the most important establishments of this wealthy fur-trading Company.  For many
years it was the capital, at which the different officers and other officials from the different
districts of this vast country were in the habit of meeting annually for the purpose of arranging
the various matters in connection with their prosecution of the fur trade.  Here Sir George
Simpson, for many years the energetic and despotic Governor, used to come to meet these officials,
travelling by birch canoe, manned by his matchless crew of Iroquois Indians, all the way from
Montreal, a distance of several thousand miles.  Here immense quantities of furs were collected
from the different trading posts, and then shipped to England by way of Hudson's Bay.

The sight of this well-kept establishment, and the courtesy and cordial welcome extended to
us, were very pleasing after our long toilsome voyage up Lake Winnipeg.  But still we were
two miles and a half from our Indian Mission, and so we were full of anxiety to reach the end
of our journey.  Mr Stewart, however, insisted on our remaining to tea with him, and then took
us over to the Indian village in his own row- boat, manned by four sturdy Highlanders.  Ere
we reached the shore, sweet sounds of melody fell upon our ears.  The Wednesday evening service
was being held, and songs of praise were being sung by the Indian congregation, the notes of
which reached us as we neared the margin and landed upon the rocky beach.  We welcomed this
as a pleasing omen, and rejoiced at it as one of the grand evidences of the Gospel's power
to change.  Not many years ago the horrid yells of the conjurer, and the whoops of the savage
Indians, were here the only familiar sounds.  Now the sweet songs of Zion are heard, and God's
praises are sung by a people whose lives attest the genuineness of the work accomplished.

We were cordially welcomed by Mrs Stringfellow in the Mission house, and were soon afterwards
joined by her husband, who had been conducting the religious services in the church.  Very
thankful were we that after our long and adventurous journeyings for two months and eighteen
days, by land and water, through the good providence of God we had reached our field of toil
among the Cree Indians, where for years we were to be permitted to labour.

Mr and Mrs Stringfellow remained with us for a few days ere they set out on their return trip
to the province of Ontario.  We took sweet counsel together, and I received a great deal of
valuable information in reference to the prosecution of our work among these Red men.  For
eleven years the missionary and his wife had toiled and suffered in this northern land.  A
goodly degree of success had attended their efforts, and we were much pleased with the state
in which we found everything connected with the Mission.

While we were at family prayers the first evening after our arrival, there came up one of the
most terrific thunderstorms we ever experienced.  The heavy Mission house, although built of
logs, and well mudded and clap-boarded, shook so much while we were on our knees that several
large pictures fell from the walls; one of which, tumbling on Brother Stringfellow's head,
put a very sudden termination to his evening devotions.

Rossville Mission, Norway House, was commenced by the Reverend James Evans in the year 1840.
It has been, and still is, one of the most successful Indian Missions in America.  Here Mr
Evans invented the syllabic characters, by which an intelligent Indian can learn to read the
Word of God in ten days or two weeks.  Earnestly desirous to devise some method by which the
wandering Indians could acquire the art of reading in a more expeditious manner than by the
use of the English alphabet, he invented these characters, each of which stands for a syllable.
He carved his first type with his pocket-knife, and procured the lead for the purpose from
the tea-chests of the Hudson's Bay Company's post.  His first ink he made out of the soot from
the chimney, and his first paper was birch bark.  Great was the excitement among the Indians
when he had perfected his invention, and had begun printing in their own language.  The conjurers,
and other pagan Indians, were very much alarmed, when, as they expressed it, they found the
"bark of the tree was beginning to talk."

The English Wesleyan Missionary Society was early impressed with the advantage of this wonderful
invention, and the great help it would be in carrying on the blessed work.  At great expense
they sent out a printing press, with a large quantity of type, which they had had specially
cast. Abundance of paper, and everything else essential, were furnished.  For years portions
of the Word of God, and a goodly number of hymns translated into the Cree language, were printed,
and incalculable good resulted.

Other missionary organisations at work in the country quickly saw the advantage of using these
syllabic characters, and were not slow to avail themselves of them.  While all lovers of Missions
rejoice at this, it is to be regretted that some, from whom better things might have been expected,
were anxious to take the credit of the invention, instead of giving it to its rightful claimant,
the Reverend James Evans.  It is a remarkable fact, that so perfectly did Mr Evans do his work,
that no improvement has been made as regards the use of these characters among the Cree Indians.

Other missionaries have introduced them among other tribes, with additions to meet the sounds
used in those tribes which are not found among the Crees.  They have even been successfully
utilised by the Moravians among the Esquimaux.

On our arrival at Rossville the Indians crowded in to see the new missionary and his wife,
and were very cordial in their greetings.  Even some pagan Indians, dressed up in their wild
picturesque costumes, came to see us, and were very friendly.

As quickly as possible we settled down to our work, and tried to grasp its possibilities. 
We saw many pleasing evidences of what had been accomplished by faithful predecessors, and
were soon convinced of the greatness of the work yet to be done.  For, while from our church,
and the houses of our Christian people, the songs of Zion were heard, our eyes were saluted
by the shouts and yells of old Indian conjurers and medicine-men, added to the monotonous sounds
of their drums, which came to us nightly from almost every point in the compass, from islands
and headlands not far away.

Our first Sabbath was naturally a very interesting day.  Our own curiosity to see our people
was doubtless equalled by that of the people to see their new missionary.  Pagans flocked in
with Christians, until the church was crowded.  We were very much pleased with their respectful
demeanour in the house of God.  There was no laughing or frivolity in the sanctuary.  With
their moccasined feet and cat-like tread, several hundred Indians did not make one quarter
the noise often heard in Christian lands, made by audiences one-tenth the size.  We were much
delighted with their singing.  There is a peculiar plaintive sweetness about Indian singing
that has for me a special attractiveness.  Scores of them brought their Bibles to the church.
When I announced the lessons for the day, the quickness with which they found the places showed
their familiarity with the sacred volume.  During prayers they were old-fashioned Methodists
enough to kneel down while the Sovereign of the universe was being addressed.  They sincerely
and literally entered into the spirit of the Psalmist when he said: "O come, let us worship
and bow down: let us kneel before the Lord our Maker."

I was fortunate in securing for my interpreter a thoroughly good Indian by the name of Timothy
Bear.  He was of an emotional nature, and rendered good service to the cause of Christ.  Sometimes,
when interpreting for me the blessed truths of the Gospel, his heart would get fired up, and
he would become so absorbed in his theme that he would in a most eloquent way beseech and plead
with the people to accept this wonderful salvation.

As the days rolled by, and we went in and out among them, and contrasted the pagan with the
Christian Indian, we saw many evidences that the Gospel is still the power of God unto salvation,
and that, whenever accepted in its fulness, it brings not only peace and joy to the heart,
but is attended by the secondary blessings of civilisation.  The Christian Indians could easily
be picked out by the improved appearance of their homes, as well as by the marvellous change
in their lives and actions.

We found out, before we had been there many days, that we had much to learn about Indian customs
and habits and modes of thought.  For example: the day after Mr and Mrs Stringfellow had left
us, a poor woman came in, and by the sign language let Mrs Young know that she was very hungry.
On the table were a large loaf of bread, a large piece of corned beef, and a dish of vegetables,
left over from our boat supplies. My good wife's sympathies were aroused at the poor woman's
story, and, cutting off a generous supply of meat and bread, and adding thereto a large quantity
of the vegetables and a quart of tea, she seated the woman at the table before the hearty meal.
Without any trouble the guest disposed of the whole, and then, to our amazement, began pulling
up the skirt of her dress at the side till she had formed a capacious pocket.  Reaching over,
she seized the meat, and put it in this large receptacle, the loaf of bread quickly followed,
and lastly, the dish of vegetables.  Then, getting up from her chair, she turned towards us,
saying, "Na-nas-koo-moo-wi-nah," which is the Cree for thanksgiving. She gracefully backed
out of the dining-room, holding carefully onto her supplies.  Mrs Young and I looked in astonishment,
but said nothing till she had gone out.  We could not help laughing at the queer sight, although
the food which had disappeared in this unexpected way was what was to have been our principal
support for two or three days, until our supplies should have arrived.  Afterwards, when expressing
our astonishment at what looked like the greediness of this woman, we learned that she had
only complied with the strict etiquette of her tribe.  It seems it is their habit, when they
make a feast for anybody, or give them a dinner, if fortunate enough to have abundance of food,
to put a large quantity before them.  The invited guest is expected to eat all he can, and
then to carry the rest away.  This was exactly what the poor woman did.  From this lesson of
experience we learnt just to place before them what we felt our limited abilities enabled us
to give at the time.

One day a fine-looking Indian came in with a couple of fat ducks.  As our supplies were low,
we were glad to see them; and in taking them I asked him what I should give him for them. 
His answer was, "O, nothing; they are a present for the missionary and his wife."  Of course
I was delighted at this exhibition of generosity on the part of this entire stranger to us
so soon after our arrival in this wild land.  The Indian at once made himself at home with
us, and kept us busy answering questions and explaining to him everything that excited his
curiosity. Mrs Young had to leave her work to play for his edification on the little melodeon.
He remained to dinner, and ate one of the ducks, while Mrs Young and I had the other.  He hung
around all the afternoon, and did ample justice to a supper out of our supplies.  He tarried
with us until near the hour for retiring, when I gently hinted to him that I thought it was
about time he went to see if his wigwam was where he left it.

"O," he exclaimed, "I am only waiting."

"Waiting?"  I said; "for what are you waiting?"

"I am waiting for the present you are going to give me for the present I gave you."

I at once took in the situation, and went off and got him something worth half-a-dozen times
as much as his ducks, and he went off very happy.

When he was gone, my good wife and I sat down, and we said, "Here is lesson number two.  Perhaps,
after we have been here a while, we shall know something about the Indians."

After that we accepted of no presents from them, but insisted on paying a reasonable price
for everything we needed which they had to sell.

Our Sunday's work began with the Sunday School at nine o'clock.  All the boys and girls attended,
and often there were present many of the adults.  The children were attentive and respectful,
and many of them were able to repeat large portions of Scripture from memory.  A goodly number
studied the Catechism translated into their own Language.  They sang the hymns sweetly, and
joined with us in repeating the Lord's Prayer.

The public service followed at half-past ten o'clock.  This morning service was always in English,
although the hymns, lessons, and text would be announced in the two languages.  The Hudson's
Bay officials who might be at the Fort two miles away, and all their employes, regularly attended
this morning service.  Then, as many of the Indians understood English, and our object was
ever to get them all to know more and more about it, this service usually was largely attended
by the people.  The great Indian service was held in the afternoon.  It was all their own,
and was very much prized by them.  At the morning service they were very dignified and reserved;
at the afternoon they sang with an enthusiasm that was delightful, and were not afraid, if
their hearts prompted them to it, to come out with a glad "Amen!"

They bring with them to the sanctuary their Bibles, and very sweet to my ears was the rustle
of many leaves as they rapidly turned to the Lessons of the day in the Old or New Testament.
Sermons were never considered too long.  Very quietly and reverently did the people come into
the house of God, and with equal respect for the place, and for Him Whom there they had worshipped,
did they depart.  Dr Taylor, one of our missionary secretaries, when visiting us, said at the
close of one of these hallowed afternoon services, "Mr Young, if the good people who help us
to support Missions and missionaries could see what my eyes have beheld to-day, they would
most cheerfully and gladly give us ten thousand dollars a year more for our Indian Missions."

Every Sunday evening I went over to the Fort, by canoe in summer, and dog-train in winter,
and held service there.  A little chapel had been specially fitted up for these evening services.
Another service was also held in the church at the Mission by the Indians themselves.  There
were among them several who could preach very acceptable sermons, and others who, with a burning
eloquence, could tell, like Paul, the story of their own conversion, and beseech others to
be likewise reconciled to God.

We were surprised at times by seeing companies of pagan Indians stalk into the church during
the services, not always acting in a way becoming to the house or day.  At first it was a matter
of surprise to me that our Christian Indians put up with some of these irregularities.  I was
very much astounded one day by the entrance of an old Indian called Tapastonum, who, rattling
his ornaments, and crying, "Ho!  Ho!" came into the church in a sort of trot, and gravely kissed
several of the men and women.  As my Christian Indians seemed to stand the interruption, I
felt that I could.  Soon he sat down, at the invitation of Big Tom, and listened to me.  He
was grotesquely dressed, and had a good-sized looking-glass hanging on his breast, kept in
its place by a string hung around his neck.  To aid himself in listening, he lit his big pipe
and smoked through the rest of the service.  When I spoke to the people afterwards about the
conduct of this man, so opposite to their quiet, respectful demeanour in the house of God,
their expressive, charitable answer was: "Such were we once, as ignorant as Tapastonum is now.
Let us have patience with him, and perhaps he, too, will soon decide to give his heart to God.
Let him come; he will get quiet when he gets the light."

The week evenings were nearly all filled up with services of one kind or another, and were
well attended, or otherwise, according as the Indians might be present at the village, or away
hunting, or fishing, or "tripping" for the Hudson's Bay Company.  What pleased us very much
was the fact that in the homes of the people there were so many family altars.  It was very
delightful to take a quiet walk in the gloaming through the village, and hear from so many
little homes the voice of the head of the family reading the precious volume, or the sounds
of prayer and praise.  Those were times when in every professed Christian home in the village
there was a family altar.

CHAPTER FOUR.

CONSTANT PROGRESS--WOMAN'S SAD CONDITION IN PAGANISM--ILLUSTRATIONS-- WONDROUS CHANGES PRODUCED
BY CHRISTIANITY--ILLUSTRATIONS--NEW YEAR'S DAY CHRISTIAN FESTIVAL--THE AGED AND FEEBLE ONES
FIRST REMEMBERED--CLOSING THANKSGIVING SERVICES.

We found ourselves in a Christian village surrounded by paganism.  The contrast between the
two classes was very evident.

Our Christians, as fast as they were able to build, were living in comfortable houses, and
earnestly endeavouring to lift themselves up in the social circle.  Their personal appearance
was better, and cleanliness was accepted as next to godliness.  On the Sabbaths they were well
dressed, and presented such a respectable and devout appearance in the sanctuary as to win
the admiration of all who visited us.  The great majority of those who made a profession of
faith lived honest, sober, and consistent lives, and thus showed the genuineness of the change
wrought in them by the glorious Gospel of the Son of God.

One of the most delightful and tangible evidences of the thoroughness and genuineness of the
change was seen in the improvement in the family life.  Such a thing as genuine home life,
with mutual love and sympathy existing among the different members of the family, was unknown
in their pagan state.  The men, and even boys, considered it a sign of courage and manliness
to despise and shamefully treat their mothers, wives, or sisters.  Christianity changed all
this; and we were constant witnesses of the genuineness of the change wrought in the hearts
and lives of this people by the preaching of the Gospel, by seeing how woman was uplifted from
her degraded position to her true place in the household.

My heart was often pained at what I saw among some of the wild savage bands around us.  When,
by canoe in summer, or dog-train in winter, I have visited these wild men, I have seen the
proud, lazy hunter come stalking into the camp with his gun on his shoulder, and in loud, imperative
tones shout out to his poor wife, who was busily engaged in cutting wood, "Get up there, you
dog, my squaw, and go back on my tracks in the woods, and bring in the deer I have shot; and
hurry, for I want my food!"  To quicken her steps, although she was hurrying as rapidly as
possible, a stick was thrown at her, which fortunately she was able to dodge.

Seizing the long carrying strap, which is a piece of leather several feet in length, and wide
at the middle, where it rests against the forehead when in use, she rapidly glides away on
the trail made by her husband's snow-shoes, it may be for miles, to the spot where lies the
deer he has shot.  Fastening one end of the strap to the haunches of the deer, and the other
around its neck, after a good deal of effort and ingenuity, she succeeds at length in getting
the animal, which may weigh from a hundred and fifty to two hundred pounds, upon her back,
supported by the strap across her forehead.  Panting with fatigue, she comes in with her heavy
burden, and as she throws it down she is met with a sharp stern command from the lips of the
despot called her husband, who has thought it beneath his dignity to carry in the deer himself,
but who imagines it to be a sign of his being a great brave thus to treat his wife.  The gun
was enough for him to carry.  Without giving the poor tired creature a moment's rest, he shouts
out again for her to hurry up and be quick; he is hungry, and wants his dinner.

The poor woman, although almost exhausted, knows full well, by the bitter experiences of the
past, that to delay an instant would bring upon herself severe punishment, and so she quickly
seizes the scalping knife and deftly skins the animal, and fills a pot with the savoury venison,
which is soon boiled and placed before his highness.  While he, and the men and boys whom he
may choose to invite to eat with him, are rapidly devouring the venison, the poor woman has
her first moments of rest.  She goes and seats herself down where women and girls and dogs
are congregated, and there women and dogs struggle for the half-picked bones which the men,
with derisive laughter, throw among them!

This was one of the sad aspects of paganism which I often had to witness as I travelled among
those bands that had not, up to that time, accepted the Gospel.  When these poor women get
old and feeble, very sad and deplorable is their condition.  When able to toil and slave, they
are tolerated as necessary evils.  When aged and weak, they are shamefully neglected, and,
often, put out of existence.  In his sermon he spoke about life's toils and burdens, and how
all men had to work and labour.  The men of the congregation were very angry at him; and at
an indignation meeting which they held, they said, "Let him go to the squaws with that kind
of talk.  They have to carry all the heavy burdens, and do the hard work.  Such stuff as that
is not for us men, but for the women."  So they were offended at him.

At a small Indian settlement on the north-eastern shores of Lake Winnipeg lived a chief by
the name of Moo-koo-woo-soo, who deliberately strangled his mother, and then burnt her body
to ashes.  When questioned about the horrid deed, he coolly and heartlessly said that as she
had become too old to snare rabbits or catch fish, he was not going to be bothered with keeping
her, and so he deliberately put her to death. Such instances could be multiplied many times.
Truly "the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel."

In delightful contrast to these sad sights among the degraded savages around us, were the kindly
ways and happy homes of our converted Indians.  Among them a woman occupied her true position,
and was well and lovingly treated.  The aged and infirm, who but for the Gospel would have
been dealt with as Moo-koo-woo-soo dealt with his mother, had the warmest place in the little
home and the daintiest morsel on the table. I have seen the sexton of the church throw wide
open the door of the sanctuary, that two stalwart young men might easily enter, carrying in
their arms their invalid mother, who had expressed a desire to come to the house of God.  Tenderly
they supported her until the service ended, and then they lovingly carried her home again.
But for the Gospel's blessed influences on their haughty natures they would have died ere doing
such a thing for a woman, even though she were their own mother.

Life for the women was not now all slavery.  They had their happy hours, and knew well how
to enjoy them.  Nothing, however, seemed so to delight them as to be gliding about in the glorious
summer time in their light canoes.  And sometimes, combining pleasure with profit, many a duck
was shot by these young Indian maidens.

This changed feeling towards the aged and afflicted ones we have seen manifested in a very
expressive and blessed way at the great annual New Year's Feast.  It was customary for the
Indians, long before they became Christians, to have a great feast at the beginning of the
New Year.  In the old times, the principal article of food at these horrid feasts was dogs,
the eating of which was accompanied by many revolting ceremonies. The missionaries, instead
of abolishing the feast, turned it into a religious festival.  I carried out the methods of
my worthy predecessors at Norway House, and so we had a feast every New Year's Day.

The Crees call this day "Ooche-me-gou Kesigow," which literally means "the kissing day," as
on this day the men claim the right to kiss every woman they meet; and, strange to say, every
woman expects to be kissed. It used to amuse me very much to see thirty or forty Indians, dressed
up in their finest apparel, come quietly marching into the Mission House, and gravely kiss
Mrs Young on her cheek.  When I used to rally her over this strange phase of unexpected missionary
experience, she would laughingly retort, "O, you need not laugh at me.  See that crowd of women
out there in the yard, expecting you to go out and kiss them!"  It was surprising how much
work that day kept me shut in my study; or if that expedient would not avail, I used to select
a dear old sweet-faced, white-haired grandma, the mother of the chief, and say, "Now I am going
to kiss grandma; and as I kiss her you must all consider yourselves kissed."  This institution
is more ancient among them than shaking hands, about which they knew nothing until it was introduced
by the whites.

For weeks before New Year's Day great preparations were made for the feast.  A council would
be called, and the men would have recorded what they were willing to give towards it.  Some,
who were good deer-hunters, promised venison.  Others promised so many beavers.  Perhaps there
were those who knew where bears had made their winter dens, and they agreed to go and kill
them for the feast.  Others, who were good fur-hunters, stated their willingness to exchange
some of the furs they would catch for flour and tea and sugar at the trading post.

Thus the business went on, until enough was promised, with the liberal supplies given by the
Hudson's Bay Company's officials and the missionary, to make the affair a great success.  An
outbuilding of the Mission, called "the fish house," was the place where all these various
things, as they were obtained, were stored.  Months were sometimes consumed in collecting the
meat.  But Jack Frost is a good preservative, and so nothing spoiled.  A few days before the
feast, Mrs Young would select several of the Indian women, and under her superintendency the
various supplies would be cooked.  Very clever were these willing helpers; and in a short time
a quantity of food would be piled up, sufficient for all, although it is well known that Indians
have good appetites.

When the great day arrived, the men quickly removed the seats out of the church, and there
put up long tables.  Great boilers of tea were made ready, and every preparation was completed
for a good time.  But, before a mouthful was eaten by any of the eight hundred or thousand
persons present, the chief used to ask me for a pencil and a piece of writing paper; and then,
standing up on a box or bench, he would shout out, "How many of our people are aged, or sick,
or afflicted, and cannot be with us to-day!"  As one name after another was mentioned, he rapidly
wrote them down.  Then he read over the list, and said, "Let us not forget any one."  Somebody
shouted out, "There is an old woman ten miles up the river towards the old Fort."  Somebody
else said, "Have you the name of that boy who was accidentally shot in the leg?"  Their names
were both put down.  Then somebody says, "There are two or three left behind in the tent of
the pagans, while the rest have come to the feast."  "Let us feed those who have come, and
send something with our kind greetings to the others," is the unanimous response.

When it was certain that none had been overlooked, request was made to me for all the old newspapers
and packing paper I could give them, and soon loving hands were busily engaged in cutting off
large pieces of different kinds of meat and arranging them with the large flat cakes in generous
bundles.  To these were added little packages of tea and sugar. In this way as many large bundles--each
containing an assortment of everything at the feast--would be made up as there were names on
the paper.  Then the chief would call in, from where the young men were busily engaged in playing
football, as many of the fleet runners as there were bundles, and giving each his load, would
indicate the person to whom he was to give it, and also would add, "Give them our New Year's
greetings and sympathy, and tell them we are sorry they cannot be with us to-day."

Very delightful were these sights to us.  Such things paid us a thousandfold for our hardships
and sufferings.  Here, before a mouthful was eaten by the healthy and vigorous ones, large
generous bundles, that would last for days, were sent off to the aged and infirm or wounded
ones, who in all probability, but for the blessed influences of the Gospel, if not quickly
and cruelly put out of existence, would have been allowed to linger on in neglect and wretchedness.

Even the young runners seemed to consider that it was an honour to be permitted to carry these
bundles, with the loving messages, to the distant homes or wigwams where the afflicted ones
were.  It was quite amusing to watch them tighten up their belts and dash off like deers. Some
of them had several miles to go; but what cared they on this glad day?

According to seniority the tables were filled, and the feast began as soon as the "Grace before
Meat" had been sung.  Mrs Young had her own long table, and to it she invited not only the
Hudson's Bay Company's people, but as many of the aged and worthy from among the poor Indians
as we wished specially to honour.  Sometimes we filled one table with wild pagans who had come
in from some distant forest home, attracted by the reports of the coming great feast.  Through
their stomachs we sometimes reached their hearts, and won them to Christ.

Thus for hours the feast continued, until all had been supplied.  None were neglected, and
everybody was happy.  Then with a glad heart they sang:

  "Praise God, from Whom all blessings flow."

When all the guests were satisfied, what was left was carried off by the needy ones, among
whom it was generously divided; the tables were quickly taken down by the men, and the church
was speedily swept clean by some active women.  The seats and pews were replaced, and every
arrangement was made for the great annual New Year's Meeting.  The church was lit up; and when
the audience had gathered, a chairman was appointed, and, after singing and prayer, speeches
were made by several of the Indians.

Many pleasant and many sensible things were said.  Some of the sober- minded ones reviewed
the year just gone, with all its blessings and mercies, and expressed the hope that the one
on which they had entered would be crowned with blessings.  Some of the speeches referred to
Treaty matters with the Government, and others were in reference to their huntings and fisheries.
Some were bright and witty, and were received with laughter and applause.  Others were of a
serious, religious character, and were equally welcome, and touched responsive hearts.  With
pleasure I noticed that in them all the most frequent word was "Na-nas-koomoo-win-ah," which
means "Thanksgiving," and for this my heart rejoiced.  Thus ended, with the Doxology and Benediction,
these happy days, in which we saw so many evidences that the preaching of the Gospel had not
been in vain.

CHAPTER FIVE.

OXFORD HOUSE MISSION--VISITED BY CANOE--DESCRIPTION OF THIS USEFUL CRAFT-INDIAN SKILL--OXFORD
LAKE--DR. TAYLOR--EDWARD PAPANEKIS--STILL ON THE TRAIL BY BIRCH CANOE--NARROW ESCAPE FROM BEING
CRUSHED BY THE ICE-- ON STORMY LAKE WINNIPEG--PIONEERING FARTHER NORTH--SUCCESSES--"SHOW US
THE FATHER, AND IT SUFFICETH US"--CHRIST ACCEPTED IN THE PLACE OF IDOLS.

I had received instructions from the Missionary Secretaries to visit Oxford Mission as soon
as possible, and to do all I could for its upbuilding.  This Mission had had a good measure
of success in years gone by.  A church and Mission house had been built at Jackson's Bay, and
many of the Indians had been converted.  But the village was too far from the Hudson's Bay
Company's Post, where the Indians traded, and where naturally they gathered.  For several years
the work had been left in charge of a native teacher.  The people regretted the absence of
an ordained Missionary, and the place suffered accordingly.  Making all the arrangements I
could for the successful prosecution of the work in my absence, I left Norway House in a small
canoe, manned by two of my Christian Indians, one of whom was my interpreter.  With this wonderful
little boat I was now to make my first intimate acquaintance.  For this wild land of broad
lakes and rapid rivers and winding creeks, the birch- bark canoe is the boat of all others
most admirably fitted.  It is to the Indian denizen here what the horse is to his more warlike
red brother on the great prairies, or what the camel is to those who live and wander amidst
Arabian deserts.  The canoe is absolutely essential to these natives in this land, where there
are no other roads than the intricate devious water routes.  It is the frailest of all boats,
yet it can be loaded down to the water's edge, and, under the skilful guidance of these Indians,
who are unquestionably the finest canoe men in the world, it can be made to respond to the
sweep of their paddles, so that it seems almost instinct with life and reason.  What they can
do in it, and with it, appeared to me at times perfectly marvellous.  Yet when we remember
that for about five months of every year some of the hunters almost live in it, this may not
seem so very wonderful.  It carries them by day, and in it, or under it, they often sleep by
night.  At the many portages which have to be made in this land, where the rivers are so full
of falls and rapids, one man can easily carry it on his head to the smooth water beyond.  In
it we have travelled thousands of miles, while going from place to place with the blessed tidings
of salvation to these wandering bands scattered over my immense Circuit.  Down the wild rapids
we have rushed for miles together, and then out into great Winnipeg, or other lakes, so far
from shore that the distant headlands were scarce visible.  Foam-crested waves have often seemed
as though about to overwhelm us, and treacherous gales to swamp us, yet my faithful, well-
trained canoe men were always equal to every emergency, and by the accuracy of their judgment,
and the quickness of their movements, appeared ever to do exactly the right thing at the right
moment.  As the result, I came at length to feel as much at home in a canoe as anywhere else,
and with God's blessing was permitted to make many long trips to those who could not be reached
in any other way, except by dog-trains in winter.

Good canoe-makers are not many, and so really good canoes are always in demand.

Frail and light as this Indian craft may be, there is a great deal of skill and ingenuity required
in its construction.

Great care is requisite in taking the bark from the tree.  A long incision is first made longitudinally
in the trunk of the tree.  Then, from this cut, the Indian begins, and with his keen knife
gradually peels off the whole of the bark, as high up as his incision went, in one large piece
or sheet.  And even now that he has safely got it off the tree, the greatest care is necessary
in handling it, as it will split or crack very easily.  Cedar is preferred for the woodwork,
and when it can possibly be obtained, is always used.  But in the section of the country where
I lived, as we were north of the cedar limit, the canoe-makers used pieces of the spruce tree,
split very thin, as the best substitute for cedar that our country afforded.

All the sewing of the pieces of birch bark together, and the fastening of the whole to the
outer frame, is done with the long slender roots of the balsam or larch trees, which are soaked
and rubbed until they are as flexible as narrow strips of leather.  When all the sewing is
done, the many narrow limber pieces of spruce are crowded into their places, giving the whole
canoe its requisite proportions and strength.  Then the seams and weak spots are well covered
over with melted pitch, which the Indians obtain from the spruce and balsam trees.

Great care is taken to make the canoe watertight.  To accomplish this, the boat is often swung
between trees and filled with water.  Every place where the slightest leak is discovered is
marked, and, when the canoe is emptied, is carefully attended to.

Canoes vary in style and size.  Each tribe using them has its own patterns, and it was to me
an ever interesting sight, to observe how admirably suited to the character of the lakes and
rivers were the canoes of each tribe or district.

The finest and largest canoes were those formerly made by the Lake Superior Indians.  Living
on the shores of that great inland sea, they required canoes of great size and strength.  These
"great north canoes," as they were called, could easily carry from a dozen to a score of paddlers,
with a cargo of a couple of tons of goods.  In the old days of the rival fur-traders, these
great canoes played a very prominent part. Before steam or even large sailing vessels had penetrated
into those northern lakes, these canoes were extensively used, loaded with the rich furs of
those wild forests, they used to come down into the Ottawa, and thence on down that great stream,
often even as far as to Montreal.

Sir George Simpson, the energetic but despotic and unprincipled governor of the Hudson's Bay
Company for many years, used to travel in one of these birch canoes all the way from Montreal
up the Ottawa on through Lake Nipissing into Georgian Bay; from thence into Lake Superior,
on to Thunder Bay.  From this place, with indomitable pluck, he pushed on back into the interior,
through the Lake of the Woods, down the tortuous river Winnipeg into the lake of the same name.
Along the whole length of this lake he annually travelled, in spite of its treacherous storms
and annoying head winds, to preside over the Council and attend to the business of the wealthiest
fur-trading company that ever existed, over which he watched with eagle eye, and in every department
of which his distinct personality was felt.  His famous Iroquois crew are still talked about,
and marvellous are the stories in circulation about many a northern camp fire of their endurance
and skill.

How rapid the changes which are taking place in this world of ours!  It seems almost incredible,
in these days of mighty steamships going almost everywhere on our great waters, to think that
there are hundreds of people still living who distinctly remember when the annual trips of
a great governor were made from Montreal to Winnipeg in a birch-bark Canoe, manned by Indians.

We left for Oxford Mission on the 8th of September.  The distance is over two hundred miles,
through the wildest country imaginable.  We did not see a house--with the exception of those
built by the beavers--from the time we left our Mission home until we reached our destination.
We paddled through a bewildering variety of picturesque lakes, rivers, and creeks.  When no
storms or fierce head-winds impeded us, we were able to make fifty or sixty miles a day.  When
night overtook us, we camped on the shore.  Sometimes it was very pleasant and romantic.  At
other times, when storms raged and we were drenched with the rain so thoroughly that for days
we had not a dry stitch upon us, it was not quite so agreeable.

We generally began our day's journey very early in the morning, if the weather was at all favourable,
and paddled on as rapidly as possible, since we knew not when head-winds might arise and stop
our progress. The Oxford route is a very diversified one.  There are lakes, large and small,
across which we had to paddle.  In some of them, when the wind was favourable, our Indians
improvised a sail out of one of our blankets.  Lashing it to a couple of oars, they lifted
it up in the favouring wind, and thus very rapidly did we speed on our way.

At times we were in broad beautiful rivers, and then paddling along in little narrow creeks
amidst the reeds and rushes.  We passed over, or, as they say in that country, "made" nine
portages around picturesque falls or rapids.  In these portages one of the Indians carried
the canoe on his head.  The other made a great load of the bedding and provisions, all of which
he carried on his back.  My load consisted of the two guns, ammunition, two kettles, the bag
containing my changes of raiment, and a package of books for the Indians we were to visit.
How the Indians could run so quickly through the portages was to me a marvel.  Often the path
was but a narrow ledge of rock against the side of the great granite cliff.  At other times
it was through the quaking bog or treacherous muskeg.  To them it seemed to make no difference.
On they went with their heavy loads at that swinging Indian stride which soon left me far behind.
On some of my canoe trips the portages were several miles long, and through regions so wild
that there was nothing to indicate to me the right direction.  When we were making them, I
used to follow on as long as I knew I was in the right way.  When I lost the trail, I at once
stopped and patiently waited until one of my faithful men, having carried his load safely to
the end, would come back for me. Quickly picking up my load, he would hurry off, and even then,
unencumbered as I was, it was often as much as I could do to keep up with him.

Oxford Lake is one of the most beautiful and picturesque lakes I ever saw.  It is between twenty
and thirty miles long and several miles wide. It is studded with islands of every imaginable
variety.  Its waters are almost as transparent as the clear, fresh air above it.  When no breath
ripples its surface, one can look down into its crystal depths and see, many feet below, the
great fish quietly moving about.

To visit the Indians who fish in its waters, and hunt upon its shores, I once brought one of
our Missionary Secretaries, the eloquent Reverend Lachlin Taylor, DD.  The trip down had not
been one of the most pleasant.  The rains had drenched him, and the mosquitoes had plagued
him with such persistency, that he loudly bemoaned his lot in being found in a country that
was cursed with such abominable animals.

One night I heard him muttering between his efforts to get them out of his tent, where he declared
they were attacking him in battalions:--

  "They throng the air, and darken heaven,
  And curse this Western land."

However, when we reached Oxford Lake, the mosquitoes left us for a time. The sun came out in
splendour, and we had some days of rarest beauty. The good doctor regained his spirits, and
laughed when I rallied him on some of his strong expressions about the country, and told him
that I hoped, as the result of his experience, he, as all Missionary Secretaries ought, would
have a good deal of sympathy for the Missionaries who live in such regions for years together.

We camped for the night on one of the most picturesque points.  We had two canoes, and to man
them four Indians from our Norway House Mission. As the doctor was an enthusiastic fisherman,
he decided that we must stop there during the forenoon, while he tried his hand.  His first
haul was a splendid pike over two feet long.  Great was his excitement as his success was assured.
Eloquence poured from him; we were flooded with it.  The Indians looked on in amazement while
he talked of the beauties of the lake and islands, of the water and the sky.

"Wait a moment, doctor," I said.  "I can add to the wild beauty of the place something that
will please your artistic eye."

I requested two fine-looking Indians to launch one of the canoes, and to quietly paddle out
to the edge of an island which abruptly rose from the deep, clear waters before us, the top
of which had on it a number of splendid spruce and balsams, massed together in natural beauty.
I directed the men to drop over the side of the canoe a long fishing line, and then, posing
them in striking attitudes in harmony with the place, I asked them to keep perfectly still
until every ripple made by their canoe had died away.

I confess I was entranced by the loveliness of the sight.  The reflections of the canoe and
men, and of the islands and rocks, were as vivid as the actual realities.  So clear and transparent
was the water, that where it and the air met there seemed but a narrow thread between the two
elements.  Not a breath of air stirred, not a ripple moved.  It was one of those sights which
come to us but seldom in a lifetime, where everything is in perfect unison, and God gives us
glimpses of what this world, His footstool, must have been before sin entered.

"Doctor," I said quietly, for my heart was full of the Doxology, "tell me what you think of
that vision."

Standing up, with a great rock beneath his feet, in a voice of suppressed emotion he began.
Quietly at first he spoke, but soon he was carried away with his own eloquence:--

"I know well the lochs of my own beloved Scotland, for in many of them I have rowed and fished.
I have visited all the famed lakes of Ireland, and have rowed on those in the Lake counties
of England.  I have travelled far and oft on our great American lakes, and have seen Tahoe,
in all its crystal beauty.  I have rowed on the Bosphorus, and travelled in a felucca on the
Nile.  I have lingered in the gondola on the canals of Venice, and have traced Rob Roy's canoe
in the Sea of Galilee, and on the old historic Jordan.  I have seen, in my wanderings in many
lands, places of rarest beauty, but the equal of this mine eyes have never gazed upon."

Never after did I see the lake as we saw it that day.

On it we have had to battle against fierce storms, where the angry waves seemed determined
to engulf us.  Once, in speeding along as well as we could from island to island, keeping in
the lee as much as possible, we ran upon a sharp rock and stove a hole in our canoe.  We had
to use our paddles desperately to reach the shore, and when we had done so, we found our canoe
half-full of water, in which our bedding and food were soaked.  We hurriedly built a fire,
melted some pitch, and mended our canoe, and hurried on.

On this lake, which can give us such pictures of wondrous beauty, I have encountered some of
the greatest gales and tempests against which I have ever had to contend, even in this land
of storms and blizzards.  Then in winter, upon its frozen surface it used to seem to me that
the Frost King held high carnival.  Terrible were the sufferings of both dogs and men on some
of those trips.  One winter, in spite of all the wraps I could put around me, making it possible
for me to run--for riding was out of the question, so intense was the cold--every part of my
face exposed to the pitiless blast was frozen.  My nose, cheeks, eyebrows, and even lips, were
badly frozen, and for days after I suffered.  Cuffy, the best of my Newfoundland dogs, had
all of her feet frozen, and even Jack's were sore for many a day after.  My loyal Indians suffered
also, and we all declared Oxford Lake to be a cold place in winter, and its storms worse than
the summer mosquitoes.

The Indians of Oxford Lake were among the finest in all the great North- West.  It was ever
a joy to meet them as I used to do once in summer by canoe trip, and then again in winter by
dog-train.  God blessed my visits to them.  The old members were cheered and comforted as the
Gospel was preached to them, and the Sacraments administered.  Some pagans were induced to
renounce their old lives, and the cause of religion was more and more established.  The Reverend
Mr Brooking, and, later, the studious and devoted Reverend Orrin German, did blessed service
in that lonely Mission.  At the present time the Reverend Edward Papanekis is the acceptable
Missionary there.

Long years ago I found Edward a careless, sinful young man.  Once he rushed into the Mission
house under the influence of liquor, and threatened to strike me.  But the blessed truth reached
his heart, and it was my joy to see him a humble suppliant at the Cross.  His heart's desire
was realised.  God has blessedly led him on, and now he is faithfully preaching that same blessed
Gospel to his countrymen at Oxford Mission.

In responding to the many Macedonian cries my Circuit kept so enlarging that I had to be "in
journeyings often."  My canoes were sometimes launched in spring, ere the great floating ice-fields
had disappeared, and through tortuous open channels we carefully paddled our way, often exposed
to great danger.

On one of these early trips we came to a place where for many miles the moving ice fields stretched
out before us.  One narrow channel of open water only was before us.  Anxious to get on, we
dashed into it, and rapidly paddled ourselves along.  I had two experienced Indians, and so
had no fear, but expected some novel adventures--and had them with interest.

Our hopes were that the wind would widen the channel, and thus let us into open water.  But,
to our disappointment, when we had got along a mile or so in this narrow open space, we found
the ice was quietly but surely closing in upon us.  As it was from four to six feet thick,
and of vast extent, there was power enough in it to crush a good-sized ship; so it seemed that
our frail birch-bark canoe would have but a poor chance.

I saw there was a reasonable possibility that when the crash came we could spring on to the
floating ice.  But what should we do then? was the question, with canoe destroyed and us on
floating ice far from land.

However, as my Indians kept perfectly cool, I said nothing, but paddled away and watched for
the development of events.  Nearer and nearer came the ice; soon our channel was not fifty
feet wide.  Already behind us the floes had met, and we could hear the ice grinding and breaking
as the enormous masses met in opposite directions.  Now it was only about twenty feet from
side to side.  Still the men paddled on, and I kept paddling in unison with them.  When the
ice was so close that we could easily touch it on either side with our paddles, one of the
Indians quietly said, "Missionary, will you please give me your paddle?"  I quickly handed
it to him, when he immediately thrust it with his own into the water, holding down the ends
of them so low horizontally under the canoe that the blade end was out of water on the other
side of the boat.  The other Indian held his paddle in the same position, although from the
other side of the canoe.  Almost immediately after the ice crowded in upon us.  But as the
points of the paddles were higher than the ice, of course they rested upon it for an instant.
This was what my cool-headed, clever men wanted.  They had a fulcrum for their paddles, and
so they pulled carefully on the handle ends of them, and, the canoe sliding up as the ice closed
in and met with a crash under us, we found ourselves seated in it on the top of the ice.  The
craft, although only a frail birch-bark canoe, was not in the least injured.

As we quickly sprang out of our canoe, and carried it away from where the ice had met and was
being ground into pieces by the momentum with which it met, I could not but express my admiration
to my men at the clever feat.

After some exciting work we reached the shore, and there patiently waited until the wind and
sun cleared away the ice, and we could venture on.  My plan was to spend at least a week in
each Indian village or encampment, preaching three times a day, and either holding school with
the children, or by personal entreaty beseeching men and women to be reconciled to God.  When
returning from the visit, which was a very successful one, we had to experience some of the
inconveniences of travelling in such a frail bark as a birch canoe on such a stormy lake as
Winnipeg.

The weather had been very unsettled, and so we had cautiously paddled from point to point.
We had dinner at what the Indians call Montreal Point, and then started for the long crossing
to Old Norway House Point, as it was then called.  It is a very long open traverse, and as
lowering clouds threatened us we pulled on as rapidly as our three paddles could propel us.
When out a few miles from land the storm broke upon us, the wind rose rapidly, and soon we
were riding over great white-crested billows.  My men were very skilful, and we had no fear;
but the most skilful management was necessary to safely ride the waves, which soon in size
were rivalling those of the ocean.  A canoe is a peculiar craft, and requires an experienced
hand in these great storms.

We were getting on all right, and were successfully climbing the big waves in quick succession,
alert and watchful that no sudden erratic move should catch us off our guard and overturn us.
At length we met a wave of unusual height, and succeeded in climbing up into its foaming crest
all right.  Then down its side our little craft shot with the apparent velocity of a sled down
a toboggan slide.  When we reached the bottom of this trough of the sea, our canoe slapped
so violently upon the water that the birch bark on the bottom split from side to side.  Of
course the water rushed in upon us with uncomfortable rapidity.  The more we paddled the worse
the water entered, as the exertion strained the boat and opened the rent.  Quickly folding
up a blanket, I carefully placed it over the long rent, and kneeled down upon it to keep it
in place.  The man in the front of the canoe put down his paddle, and, taking up the kettle,
baled as rapidly as he could, while the Indian in the stern, and myself in the middle, plied
our paddles for dear life. We turned towards the Spider Islands, which were over a mile away,
and by vigorous work succeeded in reaching one of them, although our canoe was half full of water.

We paddled up as far as we could on a smooth granite rock that came out gradually in the water.
Then out we sprang, and strong hands dragged our little canoe up beyond the reach of the waves.
We hastily pulled out our dripping blankets and soaked food and other things, and then, overturning
the canoe, emptied it of water; and as we saw the large break in the bottom, we realised as
we had not before the danger we had been in, and the providential escape which had been ours.
So, with glad hearts, we said, "We do `praise the Lord for His goodness, and for His wonderful
works to the children of men.'"

We quickly built a fire, and melted some pitch, a quantity of which is always carried ready
for such emergencies.  The long rent was covered over with a piece of cloth well saturated
in the boiling pitch, a quantity more was poured over, and the whole was carefully smoothed
out over the weak place.  Soon it cooled and hardened, and the work was done.  We ate a little
food, and then launched our frail craft and pushed on.  No serious accidents again troubled
us, and we ended this long canoe trip, as we had done many others, thankful that we had such
blessed opportunities to go to the remote places as heralds of the Cross, and doubly thankful
when we were safe at home again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

On one of my canoe trips, when looking after pagan bands in the remote Nelson River District,
I had some singular experiences, and learned some important lessons about the craving of the
pagan heart after God.

We had been journeying on for ten or twelve days when one night we camped on the shore of a
lake-like river.  While my men were busily employed in gathering wood and cooking the supper,
I wandered off and ascended to the top of a well wooded hill which I saw in the distance. Very
great indeed was my surprise, when I reached the top, to find myself in the presence of the
most startling evidences of a degraded paganism.

The hill had once been densely covered with trees, but about every third one had been cut down,
and the stumps, which had been left from four to ten feet high, had been carved into rude representations
of the human form.  Scattered around were the dog-ovens, which were nothing but holes dug in
the ground and lined with stones, in which at certain seasons, as part of their religious ceremonies,
some of their favourite dogs--white ones were always preferred--were roasted, and then devoured
by the excited crowd.  Here and there were the tents of the old conjurers and medicine men,
who, combining some knowledge of disease and medicine with a great deal of superstitious abominations,
held despotic sway over the people.  The power of these old conjurers over the deluded Indians
was very great.  They were generally lazy old fellows, but succeeded nevertheless in getting
the best that was going, as they held other Indians in such terror of their power, that gifts
in the shape of fish and game were constantly flowing in upon them.  They have the secret art
among themselves of concocting some poisons so deadly that a little put in the food of a person
who has excited their displeasure will cause death almost as soon as a dose of strychnine.
They have other poisons which, while not immediately causing death to the unfortunate victims,
yet so affect and disfigure them that, until death releases them, their sufferings are intense
and their appearance frightful.

Here on this hill top were all these sad evidences of the degraded condition of the people.
I wandered around and examined the idols, most of which had in front of them, and in some instances
on their flat heads, offerings of tobacco, food, red cotton, and other things.  My heart was
sad at these evidences of such degrading idolatry, and I was deeply impressed with my need
of wisdom and aid from on high, so that when I met the people who here worshipped these idols
I might so preach Christ and Him crucified that they would be constrained to accept Him as
their all-sufficient Saviour.

While there I lingered, and mused, and prayed, the shadows of the night fell on me, and I was
shrouded in gloom.  Then the full moon rose up in the East, and as her silvery beams shone
through the trees and lit up these grotesque idols, the scene presented a strange weird appearance.
My faithful Indians, becoming alarmed at my long absence--for the country was infested by wild
animals--were on the search for me, when I returned to the camp fire.  We ate our evening meal,
sang a hymn, and bowed in prayer.  Then we wrapped ourselves up in our blankets, and lay down
on the granite rocks to rest.  Although our bed was hard and there was no roof above us, we
slept sweetly, for the day had been one of hard work and strange adventure.

After paddling about forty miles the next day we reached the Indians of that section of the
country, and remained several weeks among them. With the exception of the old conjurers, they
all received me very cordially.  These old conjurers had the same feelings toward me as those
who made silver shrines for Diana of Ephesus had toward the first preachers of Christianity
in their city.  They trembled for their occupation.  They well knew that if I succeeded in
inducing the people to become Christians their occupation would be gone, and they would have
to settle down to work for their own living, like other people, or starve.  I visited them
as I did the rest of the encampment, but they had enmity in their hearts toward me.  Of all
their efforts to injure or destroy me of course I knew not.  That their threats were many I
well understood; but He Who had said, "Lo, I am with you alway," mercifully watched over me
and shielded me from their evil deeds.  My two Indian attendants also watched as well as prayed,
with a vigilance that seemed untiring.  Very pleasant, indeed, are my memories of my faithful
Indian comrades on those long journeys.  Their loyalty and devotion could not be excelled.
Everything that they could do for my safety and happiness was cheerfully done.

We held three religious services every day, and between these services taught the people to
read in the Syllabic characters.  One day, in conversing with an old fine-looking Indian, I
said to him, "What is your religion?  If you have any clear idea of a religion, tell me in
what you believe."

His answer was; "We believe in a good Spirit and in a bad spirit."

"Why, then," I said, "do you not worship the good Spirit?  I came through your sacred grounds,
and I saw where you had cut down some trees.  Part you had used as fuel with which to cook
your bear or deer meat; out of the rest you had made an idol, which you worship.  How is one
part more sacred than the other?  Why do you make and worship idols?"

I can never forget his answer, or the impressive and almost passionate way in which the old
man replied:--

"Missionary, the Indian's mind is dark, and he cannot grasp the unseen. He hears the great
Spirit's voice in the thunder and storms.  He sees the evidences of His existence all around,
but neither he nor his fathers have ever seen the great Spirit, or any one who has; and so
he does not know what He looks like.  But man is the highest creature that he knows of, and
so he makes his idols like a man, and calls it his `Manito.'  We only worship them because
we do not know what the great Spirit looks like, but these we can understand."

I opened my Indian Bible at that wonderful chapter of disinterested love, the fourteenth of
John, and preached unto them Jesus, in His two natures, Divine and human.  While emphasising
the redemptive work of the Son of God, I referred to His various offices and purposes of love
and compassion, His willingness to meet us and to save us from perplexity and doubt, as well
as from sin.  I spoke about Him as our elder Brother, so intimately allied to us, and still
retaining His human form as He pleads for us at the throne of God.  I dwelt upon these delightful
truths, and showed how Christ's love had so brought him to us, that with the eye of faith we
could see Him, and in Him all of God for which our hearts craved.  "Whom having not seen, we
love; in Whom, though now we see Him not, yet believing, we rejoice with joy unspeakable and
full of glory."

For many days I needed no other themes.  They listened attentively, and the holy Spirit applied
these truths to their hearts and consciences so effectively that they gladly received them.
A few more visits effectually settled them in the truth.  They have cut down their idols, filled
up the dog-ovens, torn away the conjurers' tents, cleared the forest, and banished every vestige
of the old life.  And there, at what is called "the Meeting of the Three Rivers," on that very
spot where idols were worshipped amidst horrid orgies, and where the yells, rattles, and drums
of the old conjurers and medicine men were heard continuously for days and nights, there is
now a little church, where these same Indians, transformed by the glorious Gospel of the Son
of God, are "clothed and in their right mind, sitting at the feet of Jesus."

My visits to Nelson River so impressed me with the fact of the necessity of some zealous missionary
going down there and living among the people, that, in response to appeals made, the Reverend
John Semmens, whose heart God had filled with missionary zeal, and who had come out to assist
me at Norway House, nobly resolved to undertake the work.  He was admirably fitted for the
arduous and responsible task.  But no language of mine can describe what he had to suffer.
His record is on high.  The Master has it all, and He will reward.  Great were his successes,
and signal his triumphs.

At that place, where I found the stumps carved into idols, which Brother Semmens has so graphically
described, the church, mainly through his instrumentality and personal efforts, has been erected.
In the last letter which I have received from that land, the writer says: "The Indians now
all profess themselves to be Christians.  Scores of them by their lives and testimonies assure
us of the blessed consciousness that the Lord Jesus is indeed their own loving Saviour.  Every
conjuring drum has ceased.  All vestiges of the old heathenish life are gone, we believe for ever."

Grandly has this prophecy been fulfilled, and dwarfs into insignificance all the sufferings
and hardships endured in the pioneer work which I had in beginning this Mission.

CHAPTER SIX.

THE WILD NORTH LAND--THE TWO METHODS OF TRAVEL, BY CANOE AND DOG-TRAIN-- THE NATIVE DOGS--ST.
BERNARD AND NEWFOUNDLAND DOGS--THE DOG SLEDS--THE GUIDE--THE DOG DRIVERS--THE LONG JOURNEYS--NIGHT
TRAVELLING--WONDROUS VISIONS OF THE NIGHT.

So destitute are these wild north lands of roads that there are really no distinct words in
the languages of these northern tribes to represent land vehicles.  In translating such words
as "waggon" or "chariot" into the Cree language, a word similar to that for "dog-sled" had
to be used.

No surveyor, up to the years about which I am writing, had visited those regions, and there
were literally no roads as understood in civilised lands.

So numerous are the lakes and rivers that roads are unnecessary to the Indian in the summer
time.  With his light birch canoe he can go almost everywhere he desires.  If obstructions
block up his passage, all he has to do is to put his little canoe on his head, and a short
run will take him across the portage, or around the cataracts or falls, or over the height
of land to some other lake or stream, where he quickly embarks and continues his journey.

All summer travelling is done along the water routes.  Naturally the various trading posts
and Indian villages or encampments are located on the edges of the lakes or rivers, or very
near them, so as to be most conveniently reached in this way.  So short are the summers that
there are only about five months of open water to be depended upon in these high latitudes.
During the other seven months the dog sled is the only conveyance for purposes of travelling.
So rough and wild is the country that we know of no vehicle that could take its place, and
no animals that could do the work of the dogs.

As the years of toil rolled on, my Mission field or Circuit so enlarged that it extended irregularly
north and south over five hundred miles, with a width in some places of over three hundred.
In summer I travelled over it in a birch canoe, and in winter with my dog-trains.

At first it seemed very novel, and almost like child's play, to be dragged along by dogs, and
there was almost a feeling of rebellion against what seemed such frivolous work.  But we soon
found out that we had travelled in worse conveyances and with poorer steeds than in a good
dog sled, when whirled along by a train of first-class dogs.

The dogs generally used are of the Esquimaux breed, although in many places they have become
so mixed up with other varieties as to be almost unrecognisable.  The pure Esquimaux sled dogs
are well-built, compact animals, weighing from eighty to a hundred and twenty pounds.  They
are of various colours, and have a close, warm, furry coat of hair.  They have sharp-pointed
ears and very bushy, curly tails.  They are the most notorious thieves.  I never could completely
break an Esquimaux dog of this propensity.  It seemed ingrained in their very natures.  I have
purchased young puppies of this breed from the natives, have fed them well, and have faithfully
endeavoured to bring them up in the way in which they ought to go, but I never could get them
to stay there.  Steal they would, and did, whenever they had an opportunity.

This serious defect may have been the result of the constant and unremitting neglect with which
Indians generally treat their dogs.  They are fond of them in a way, and are unwilling to part
with them, except at a good price; yet, except when working them, they very seldom feed them.
The dogs are generally left to steal their living, and some of them become very clever at it,
as more than once I found to my sorrow. When the fisheries are successful, or many deer have
been killed, the dogs, like their owners, are fat and flourishing.  When food is scarce, the
dogs' allowance is the first cut off.  We could always tell at a glance, when a band of wild,
wandering pagan Indians came in to visit our village from their distant hunting grounds, how
they had prospered. If they and their dogs were fat and good-natured, they had had abundance
of food.  If, while the people looked fairly well, the dogs were thin and wolfish, we knew
they had fared but moderately.  If the dogs were all gone and the people looked gaunt and famine-stricken,
we knew they had had hard times, and, as a last resort, had eaten their poor dogs to keep themselves
alive.

Some of the Indians who make a pretence to feed their dogs in winter never think of doing so
in summer.  The result is that, as they have to steal, hunt, or starve, they become adepts
in one or the other. Everything that is eatable, and many things apparently uneatable, are
devoured by them.  They fairly howled with delight when they found access to such things as
old leather moccasins, dog harness, whips, fur caps, mitts, and similar things.  They greedily
devoured all they could, and then most cunningly buried the rest.  Many of them go off in summer-
time on long fishing excursions.  I once, when away on a canoe trip, met a pack of them up
a great river over a hundred miles from their home. When we first saw them at a long distance,
we mistook them for wolves, and began to prepare for battle.  The quick eyes of my Indian canoe
men soon saw what they were, and putting down our guns, we spent a little time in watching
them.  To my great surprise I found out that they were fishing on their own account.  This
was something new to me, and so I watched them with much interest.

On the side of the river on which they were was a shallow, reedy marsh, where the water was
from a few inches to a foot in depth.  In these shallow waters, at certain seasons of the year,
different varieties of fish are to be found.  The principal is the Jack fish, or pike, some
of which are over three feet long.  As they crowd along in these shallows, often with their
back fins out of the water, they are observed by the dogs, who quietly wade out, often to a
distance of many yards, and seize them with such a grip that, in spite of their struggles,
they are carried in triumph to the shore, and there speedily devoured.  Sometimes the dogs
will remain away for weeks together on these fishing excursions, and will return in much better
condition than when they left.

During the winter of the first Riel Rebellion, when all our supplies had been cut off, my good
wife and I got tired of dining twenty-one times a week on fish diet, varied only by a pot of
boiled musk rats, or a roast hind-quarter of a wild cat.  To improve our bill of fare, the
next summer, when I went into the Red River Settlement, I bought a sheep, which I carefully
took out with me in a little open boat.  I succeeded in getting it safely home, and put it
in a yard that had a heavy stockade fence twelve feet high around it.  In some way the dogs
got in and devoured my sheep.

The next summer, I took out a couple of pigs, and put them into a little log stable with a
two-inch spruce plank door.  To my great disgust, one night the dogs ate a hole through the
door and devoured my pigs.

There seemed to be a good deal of the wolf in their nature.  Many of them never manifested
much affection for their masters, and never could be fully depended upon.  Still I always found
that even with Esquimaux dogs patience and kindness went farther than anything else in teaching
them to know what was required of them, and in inducing them to accept the situation.  Some
of them are naturally lazy, and some of them are incorrigible shirks; and so there is in dog-driving
a capital opportunity for the exercise of the cardinal virtue of patience.

As my Mission increased in size, and new appointments were taken up, I found I should have
to be on the move nearly all the winter if those who longed for the Word of Life were to be
visited.  Do the best I could, there were some bands so remote that I could only visit them
twice a year.  In summer I went by canoe, and in winter by dog-train.  After a few wretched
experiences with native dogs, where I suffered most intensely, as much on account of their
inferior powers as anything else, I began to think of the many splendid St. Bernard and Newfoundland
dogs I had seen in civilised lands, doing nothing in return for the care and affection lavished
upon them.  These thoughts, which came to me while far from home, were promptly followed by
action as soon as that terrible trip was ended, in which every part of my face exposed to the
intense cold had been frozen, even to my eyebrows and lips.

Missionary Secretaries were amused at the requisition for dogs, and had their laugh at what
they called "my unique request," and wrote me to that effect.  Thanks, however, to the kindness
of such men as the Honourable Mr Sanford, of Hamilton, the Honourable Mr Ferrier, of Montreal,
and other friends, I had in my possession some splendid dogs before the next season opened,
and then the work went on with increasing interest and satisfaction.  With splendid, well-trained
dogs, I could so shorten the time of the three hundred miles' trip, that, instead of shivering
seven or eight nights in a hole dug in the snow, we could reduce the number to four or five.

Those who have experienced the sufferings and hardships of camping out in the forest with the
temperature ranging from thirty to sixty degrees below zero, will agree that to escape two
or three nights of it meant a good deal.

I found by years of experience that the St. Bernard and Newfoundland dogs had all the good
qualities, and none of the defects, of the Esquimaux.  By kindness and firmness they were easily
broken in, and then a whip was only an ornamental appendage of the driver's picturesque costume.
Of these splendid dogs I often had in my possession, counting old and young, as many as twenty
at a time.  The largest and best of them all was Jack, a noble St. Bernard.  He was black as
jet, and stood over thirty-three inches high at his fore shoulder.  When in good working trim,
he weighed about a hundred and sixty pounds.  He had no equal in all that northern land.  Several
times he saved my life, as we shall see further on.  No whip ever ruffled his glossy coat;
no danger ever deterred him from his work, when he with his marvellous intelligence once got
to know what was expected of him.  No blizzard storm, no matter how fickle and changeful, could
lead him off from the desired camping place, even if the courage of other dogs failed them,
and even though the guides gave up in despair.

The distance we could travel with dogs depended of course very much on the character of the
trail or route.  On the frozen surface of Lake Winnipeg, when no blinding gales opposed us,
and our dogs were good and loads not too heavy, we have made from seventy to ninety miles a
day. One winter I accomplished the journey from Fort Garry to Norway House in five days and
a half--a distance of nearly four hundred miles.  When we were toiling along in the dense forests,
where the snow lay deep and the obstructions were many, and the country was broken with hills
and ravines, we often did not make more than a third of that distance, and then suffered much
more than when we had made much greater journeys under more favourable auspices.

The dog sleds are made of two oak or birch boards, about twelve feet long, eight or nine inches
wide, and from half an inch to an inch thick. These two boards are fastened securely together,
edge to edge, by crossbars.  Then one of the ends is planed down thin, and so thoroughly steamed
or soaked in hot water that it can easily be bent or curved up to form what is called the head
of the sled.  It is then planed smooth, and fitted out with side loops.  The front ones are
those to which the traces of the dogs are attached, and the others along the sides are used
to fasten the load securely.  When finished, allowing two or three feet for the curled-up head,
a good dog sled is nine or ten feet long, and from sixteen to eighteen inches wide.

Sometimes they are fitted with parchment sides and a comfortable back. Then they are called
carioles.  When the dogs were strong enough, or the trail was a well beaten one, or we were
travelling on the great frozen lakes, I was able to ride the greater part of the time.  Then
it was not unpleasant or toilsome work.  But as many of my winter trails led me through the
primeval forests, where the snow was often very deep, and the hills were steep, and the fallen
trees many, and the standing ones thickly clustered together, on such journeys there was but
little riding.  One had to strap on his snow shoes, and help his faithful Indians to tramp
down the deep snow in the trail, that the poor dogs might drag the heavily loaded sleds along.

Four dogs constitute a train.  They are harnessed in tandem style, as all this vast country
north of the fertile prairies is a region of forests.  The Esquimaux style of giving each dog
a separate trace, thus letting them spread out in a fan-like form, would never do in this land
of trees and dense under-bush.

The harness, which is made of moose skin, is often decorated with ribbons and little musical
bells.  Singular as it may appear, the dogs were very fond of the bells, and always seemed
to travel better and be in greater spirits when they could dash along in unison with their
tinkling.  Some dogs could not be more severely punished than by taking the bells off their
harness.

The head dog of the train is called "the leader."  Upon him depends a great deal of the comfort
and success, and at times the safety, of the whole party.  A really good leader is a very valuable
animal.  Some of them are so intelligent that they do not require a guide to run ahead of them,
except in the most dense and unbeaten forest trails.  I had a long-legged white dog, of mixed
breed, that ever seemed to consider a guide a nuisance, when once he had got into his big head
an idea of what I wanted him to do.  Outside of his harness Old Voyager, as we called him,
was a morose, sullen, unsociable brute.  So hard to approach was he that generally a rope about
sixty feet long, with one end fastened around his neck, trailed out behind him.  When we wanted
to catch him, we generally had to start off in the opposite direction from him, for he was
as cunning as a fox, and ever objected to being caught.  In zigzag ways we moved about until
he was thrown off his guard, and then by-and- by it was possible to come near enough to get
hold of the long rope and haul him in.  When once the collar was on his neck, and he had taken
his place at the head of the party, he was the unrivalled leader.  No matter how many trains
might happen to be travelling together, no one thought of taking first place while Old Voyager
was at hand.

Lake Winnipeg is very much indented with deep, wide bays.  The headlands are from five to thirty
miles apart.  When dog-travelling on that great lake in winter, the general plan is to travel
from headland to headland. When leaving one where perhaps we had slept or dined, all we had
to do was to turn Old Voyager's head in the right direction, and show him the distant point
to which we wished to go; and although it might be many miles away, a surveyor's line could
not be much straighter than the trail our sleds would make under his unerring guidance.

I have gone into these details about this mode of travelling, because there is so little known
about it in the outside world.  Doubtless it will soon become a thing of the past, as the Indians
are settling down in their Reservations, and, each tribe or band having a resident Missionary,
these long, toilsome journeys will not be essential.

The companions of my long trips were the far-famed Indian runners of the north.  The principal
one of our party was called "the guide."  To him was committed the responsibility of leading
us by the quickest and safest route to the band of Indians we wished to visit with the good
news of a Saviour's love.  His place was in front of the dogs, unless the way happened to lead
us for a time over frozen lakes or well-beaten trails, where the dogs were able to go on alone,
cheered by the voice of their drivers behind.  When the trail was of this description, the
guide generally strode along in company with one of the drivers.

As the greater part of my work was in the wild forest regions, there were many trips when the
guide was always at the front.  Marvellously gifted were some of these men.  The reader must
bear in mind the fact that there were no roads or vestiges of a path.  Often the whole distance
we wished to go was through the dense unbroken forest.  The snow, some winters, was from two
to four feet deep.  Often the trees were clustered so closely together that it was at times
difficult to find them standing far enough apart to get our sleds, narrow as they were, between
them.  In many places the under-brush was so dense that it was laborious work to force our
way through it.  Yet the guide on his large snowshoes was expected to push on through all obstructions,
and open the way where it was possible for the dog-sleds to follow.  His chief work was to
mark out the trail, along which the rest of us travelled as rapidly as our loaded sleds, or
wearied limbs, and often bleeding feet, would allow.

Wonderfully clever and active were these guides in this difficult and trying work.  To them
it made but little difference whether the sun shone brightly, or clouds obscured the sky. 
On and on they pushed without hesitancy or delay.  There were times when the sun's rays were
reflected with such splendour from the snowy wastes, that our eyes became so affected by the
glare, that it was impossible to travel by sunlight.  The black eyes of the Indians seemed
very susceptible to this disease, which they call "snow blindness."  It is very painful, as
I know by sad experience.  The sensation is like that of having red-hot sand thrown on the
eyeballs.  Often my faithful dog-drivers used to suffer so from it that, stoical as they naturally
are, I have known them to groan and almost cry out like children in the camp.

Once, in travelling near Oxford Lake, we came across a couple of Indians who were stone-blind
from this disease.  Fortunately they had been able to reach the woods and make a camp and get
some food ready ere total blindness came upon them.  We went out of our course to guide them
to their friends.

To guard against the attack of this disease, which seldom occurs except in the months of March
and April, when the increasing brightness of the sun, in those lengthening days, makes its
rays so powerful, we often travelled only during the night-time, and rested in the sheltered
camps during the hours of sunshine.  On some of our long trips we have travelled eight nights
continuously in this way.  We generally left our camp about sundown.  At midnight we groped
about as well as we could, aided by the light of the stars or the brilliant auroras, and found
some dry wood and birch bark, with which we made a fire and cooked a midnight dinner.  Then
on we went until the morning light came.  Then a regular camp was prepared, and breakfast cooked
and eaten, and the dogs were fed, instead of at night.  Prayers said, and ourselves wrapped
up in our blankets and robes, we slept until the hours of brilliant sunshine were over, when
on we went.

It always seemed to me that the work of the guides would be much more difficult at night than
during the daytime.  They, however, did not think so.  With unerring accuracy they pushed on.
It made no matter to them whether the stars shone out in all the beauty and brilliancy of the
Arctic sky, or whether clouds arose and obscured them all.  On the guide pushed through tangled
underwood or dense gloomy forest, where there were not to be seen, for days, or rather nights,
together, any other tracks than those made by the wild beasts of the forest.

Sometimes the wondrous auroras blazed out, flashing and scintillating with a splendour indescribable.
At times the whole heavens seemed aglow with their fickle, inconstant beauty, and then various
portions of the sky were illumined in succession by their ever-changing bars, or columns of
coloured light.  Man's mightiest pyrotechnic displays dwarfed into insignificance in the presence
of these celestial visions.  For hours at a time have I been entranced amidst their glories.
So bewildering were they at times to me that I have lost all ideas of location, and knew not
which was north or south.

But to the experienced guide, although, like many of the Indians, he had a keen appreciation
of the beauties of nature, so intent was he on his duties that these changing auroras made
no difference, and caused him no bewilderment in his work.  This, to me, was often a matter
of surprise. They are very susceptible in their natures, and their souls are full of poetry,
as many of their expressive and beautiful names indicate.  To them, in their pagan state, those
scintillating bars of coloured light were the spirits of their forefathers, rank after rank,
rushing out to battle.  Yet, while on our long trips I have had Indians as guides who became
intensely interested in these wondrous visions of the night, I never knew them to lose the
trail or become confused as to the proper route.

Very pleasant are my memories of different guides and dog-drivers.  With very few exceptions
they served me loyally and well.  Most of them were devoted Christian men.  With me they rejoiced
to go on these long journeys to their countrymen who were still groping in the darkness, but
most of them longing for the light.  Many of them were capable of giving exhortations or addresses;
and if not able to do this, they could, Paul- like, tell the story of their conversion, and
how they had found the Saviour.

My heart warms to those faithful men, my companions in many a storm, my bed-fellows in many
a cold wintry camp.  Memory brings up many incidents where they risked their lives for me,
and where, when food was about exhausted, and the possibilities of obtaining additional supplies
for days were very poor, they quietly and unostentatiously put themselves on quarter rations,
for days together, that their beloved missionary might not starve.

Some of them have finished their course.  Up the shining trail, following the unerring Guide,
they have gone beyond the auroras and beyond the stars right to the throne of God.

CHAPTER SEVEN.

ON THE TRAIL WITH THE DOGS, TO FIELDS RIPE FOR THE REAPER--THE PLACE-- THE TRIP--THE WINTER
CAMP--THE BITTER COLD--ENDURING HARDNESS--DEATH SHAKING HANDS WITH US--MANY DAYS ON THE TRAIL.

In January, 1869, I started on my first winter trip to Nelson River, to visit a band of Indians
there, who had never yet seen a missionary or heard the glad tidings of salvation.  Their principal
gatherings were at the little trading post on the Burntwood River.  Their hunting grounds extended
so very far north that they bordered on those of the Esquimaux, with whom, however, the Indians
have no dealings.  Between these two races, the Indian and the Esquimaux, there is no affinity
whatever. They differ very materially in appearance, language, customs, and beliefs.  Though
they will seldom engage in open hostilities, yet they are very rarely at peace with each other,
and generally strive to keep as far apart as possible.

The weather was bitterly cold, as the temperature ranged from thirty- five to fifty-five below
zero.  Our course was due north all the way. The road we made, for there was none ahead of
the snow-shoe tracks of our guide, was a rugged, unbroken forest path.  As the country through
which we passed is rich in fur-bearing animals, we saw many evidences of their presence, and
occasionally crossed a hunter's trail.  We passed over twenty little lakes, averaging from
one to thirty miles in diameter.  Over these our dogs drew us very fast, and we could indulge
in the luxury of a ride; but in the portages and wood-roads our progress was very slow, and
generally all of us, with our snow-shoes on, and at times with axes in hand, had to tramp on
ahead and pack the deep snow down, and occasionally cut out an obstructing log, that our dogs
might be able to drag our heavily laden sleds along.  Sometimes the trees were so thickly clustered
together that it was almost impossible to get our sleds through them.  At times we were testing
our agility by climbing over fallen trees, and then on our hands and knees had to crawl under
reclining ones.  Our faces were often bleeding, and our feet bruised. There were times when
the strap of my snowshoes so frayed and lacerated my feet that the blood soaked through the
moccasins and webbing of the snowshoes, and occasionally the trail was marked with blood. 
We always travelled in Indian file.  At the head ran or walked the guide, as the roads would
permit.  On these trips, when I got to understand dog- driving, I generally followed next;
and behind me were three other dog- trains, each with an Indian driver.

Sometimes the snow was so deep that the four dog-drivers went ahead of the dogs, immediately
behind the guide, and, keeping in line with him, industriously packed down the snow, that the
dogs might the more easily drag the heavy sleds along.  The reason why our loads were so heavy
was this.  We were not in a country where, when night overtook us, we could find some hospitable
home to welcome us.  Neither were we where there were hotels or houses in which for money we
could secure lodgings.  We were in one of the most desolate and thinly inhabited parts of the
world, where those who travel long distances see no human beings, except the Indian hunters,
and these but rarely.  Hence, in spite of all our efforts to make our loads as light as possible,
they would be heavy, although we were only carrying what was considered absolutely essential.
We had to take our provisions, fish for our dogs, kettles, tin dishes, axes, bedding, guns,
extra clothing, and various other things, to meet emergencies that might arise.

The heaviest item on our sleds was the fish for the dogs.  Each dog was fed once a day, and
then received two good white fishes, each weighing from four to six pounds.  So that if the
daily allowance for each dog averaged five pounds, the fish alone on each sled would weigh
one hundred and twenty pounds, when we began a trip of a week's duration. Then the bitter cold
and the vigorous exercise gave both the drivers and the missionary good appetites, and so the
food provided for them was of no insignificant weight.

We generally stopped about half an hour before sundown in order to have time, ere darkness
enshrouded us, to prepare our camp.  As we journeyed on we had observed that the guide who
had been running along in front had been, for the last half hour or so, carefully scanning
the forest to the right and left.  At length he stopped, and as we came up to him we said,
"Well, Tom, what is the matter?"

His answer is, "Here is a capital place for our camp."

"Why do you think so?" we ask.

He replies, "Do you see those balsams?  They will furnish us with a bed, and this cluster of
dry, dead small trees will give us the wood we need for our fire."  So we quickly set to work
to prepare for our all-night stay in the woods.

The dogs were soon unharnessed, and seemed thankful to get their heads out of their collars.
They were never tied up, neither did they ever desert us, or take the back track for home.
Some of the younger ones often organised a rabbit hunt on their own responsibility, and had
some sport.  The older and wiser ones looked around for the most cosy and sheltered spots,
and there began to prepare their resting-places for the night.  They would carefully scrape
away the snow until they came to the ground, and there, with teeth and paws, would make the
spot as smooth and even as possible.  They would then curl themselves up, and patiently wait
until they were called to supper.  After unharnessing our dogs, our next work was with our
axes, and there was a good sharp one for the Missionary, to cut down some of the green balsams
and dry dead trees. Then using our snowshoes as shovels, from the place selected for our camp
we soon scraped away the snow, piling it up as well as we could to the right, left, and in
rear of where we were to sleep.  On the ground thus cleared of snow we spread out a layer of
the balsam boughs, and in front, where the wind would blow the smoke from us, we made up a
large fire with the small dry trees which we had cut down.

On this blazing log fire we put our two kettles, which we had filled with snow.  When it melted
down, we refilled the kettles, until enough water was secured.  In the large kettle we boiled
a piece of fat meat, of goodly size, and in the other we made our tea.

On my first trip I carried with me a tin basin, a towel, and a cake of soap.  At our first
camp-fire, when the snow had been melted in our kettle, I asked the guide to give me a little
of the water in my basin. Suspecting the purpose for which I wanted it, he said, "What are
you going to do with it?"

"Wash my face and hands," I replied.

Very earnestly he answered, "Please, Missionary, do not do so."

I was longing for a good wash, for I felt like a chimney-sweep.  We had been travelling for
hours through a region of country where, in the previous summer, great forest fires had raged,
leaving many of the trunks of the trees charred and black.  Against some of them we had often
rubbed, and to some of them, or their branches, we had had to cling as we went dashing down
some of the ravines.  The result of these weary hours of toil amidst charred trunks was very
visible, and I rejoiced that an opportunity had arrived when I could wash off the sooty stuff.
Great indeed was my surprise to hear this strong protest on the part of my guide against my
doing anything of the kind.

"Why should I not wash?"  I said, holding up my blackened hands.

"You must not let water touch you out in the open air, when it is so very cold as it is to-day,"
was his answer.

I was very inexperienced then, and not willing to lose my wash, which I so much needed, I did
not heed the warning.  Having a blazing fire before me and a good dry towel, I ventured to
take the wash, and for a minute or two after felt much better.  Soon, however, there were strange
prickling sensations on the tops of my hands, and then they began to chap and bleed, and they
became very sore, and did not get well for weeks.  The one experiment of washing in the open
air with the temperature in the fifties below zero was quite enough.  In the following years
I left the soap at home and only carried the towel. When very much in need of a wash, I had
to be content with a dry rub with the towel.  Mrs Young used to say, when I returned from some
of these trips, that I looked like old mahogany.  The bath was then considered a much-needed
luxury.

For our food, when travelling in such cold weather, we preferred the fattest meat we could
obtain.  From personal experience I can endorse the statements of Arctic explorers about the
value of fat or oil and blubber as articles of food, and the natural craving of the system
for them.  Nothing else seemed to supply the same amount of internal heat. As the result of
experience, we carried the fattest kind of meat.

As soon as the snow was melted down in the larger of our kettles, meat sufficient for our party
was soon put on and boiled.  While it was cooking, we thawed out the frozen fish for our dogs.
Such is the effect of the frost that they were as hard as stone, and it would have been cruel
to have given them in that state to the noble animals that served us so well.  Our plan was
to put down a small log in front of the fire, so close to it that when the fish were placed
against it, the intensity of the heat would soon thaw them out.  The hungry dogs were ever
sharp enough to know when their supper was being prepared; and as it was the only meal of the
day for them, they crowded around us and were impatient at times, and had to be restrained.

Sometimes, in their eagerness and anxiety for their food--for it often required a long time
for the fire to thaw the fishes sufficiently for us to bend them--the dogs in crowding one
before the other would get into a fight, and then there would be trouble.  Two dogs of the
same train very seldom fought with each other.  Yoke-fellows in toil, they were too wise to
try to injure each other in needless conflict.  So, when a battle began, the dogs quickly ranged
themselves on the sides of their own comrades, and soon it was a conflict of train against
train.  At first I thought it cruel not to feed them more frequently, but I found, as all experienced
dog-drivers had told me, that one good meal a day was the best for them.  So great were my
sympathies for them that sometimes I would give them a good breakfast in the morning; but it
did not turn out to be of any real benefit.  The additional meal made them sluggish and short-winded,
and they did not seem to thrive so well.  Good white fish was the best food we could give them,
and on this diet they could thrive and work as on no other.

A goodly number of dog-shoes were very necessary on these wild, rough trips.  Dogs' feet are
tender, and are liable to injury from various causes.  On the smooth glare ice the pads of
the feet would sometimes wear so thin that they bled a good deal.  Then on the rough roads
there was always the danger of their breaking off a claw or running a sliver through the webbing
between the toes.  Many of the wise old dogs that had become accustomed to these shoes, and
thus knew their value, would suddenly stop the whole train, and by holding up an injured foot
very eloquently, if mutely, tell the reason why they had done so.

The dog-shoes are like heavy woollen mits without the thumbs, made in different sizes.  When
a foot is injured, the mit is drawn on and securely tied with a piece of soft deer-skin.  Then
the grateful dog, which perhaps had refused to move before, springs to his work, often giving
out his joyous barks of gratitude.  So fond do some of the dogs become of these warm woollen
shoes that instances are known where they have come into the camp from their cold resting-places
in the snow, and would not be content until the men got up and put shoes on all of their feet.
Then, with every demonstration of gratitude, they have gone back to their holes in the snow.

Our dogs having been fed, we next make our simple arrangements for our own supper.

A number of balsam boughs are spread over the spot near the fires, from which the snow has
been scraped away by our snowshoes.  On these is laid our table-cloth, which was generally
an empty flour bag, cut down the side.  Our dishes, all of tin, are placed in order, and around
we gather with vigorous appetites.  It is fortunate that they are so good, as otherwise our
homely fare would not be much prized.  The large piece of fat meat is served up in a tin pan,
and our pint cups are filled up with hot tea.  If we are fortunate enough to have some bread,
which was far from being always the case, we thaw it out and eat it with our meat. Vegetables
were unknown on these trips.  Our great staple was fat meat, and the fatter the better; morning,
noon, and night, and often between times did we stop and eat fat meat.  If we did vary the
menu, it would be by making a raid on the dogs' supply, and in the evening camp cooking ourselves
a good kettle of fish.

As we dared not wash our hands or faces, of course such a thing as washing dishes was unknown.
When supper was in progress, Jack Frost made us busy in keeping ourselves and provisions warm.
I have seen the large piece of meat put back into the pot three times during the one meal,
to warm it up.  I have seen the ice gather on the top of the cup of tea that a few minutes
before was boiling vigorously in the kettle.

After supper wood was cut, to be in readiness for the morning's fire; and every break in clothes
or harness was repaired, that there might be no delay in making a good start.  Then the guide,
who always had charge of all these things, when satisfied that all was arranged, would say,
"Missionary, we are ready for prayers."  The Bible and Hymn-book were brought out, and the
Indians gathered round me, and there together we offered up our evening devotions.  Would that
our readers could have seen us!  The background is of dense balsam trees, whose great drooping
branches, partially covered with snow, sweep the ground.  Above us are the bright stars, and,
it may be, the flashing auroras.  In front of us is the blazing fire, and scattered around
us, in picturesque confusion, are our dog-sleds, snow-shoes, harness, and the other essentials
of our outfit.  A few of the dogs generally insisted on remaining up until their masters had
retired, and they were now to be seen in various postures around us.  With uncovered heads,
no matter how intense the cold, my Christian Indians listened reverently, while in their own
language I read from the precious volume which they have learned to love so well.  Then together
we sang a hymn.  Frequently it would be the Evening Hymn, the first verse of which in their
beautiful Cree language is as follows:--

  "Ne mahmechemon ne muntome
  Kahke wastanahmahweyan,
  Kah nah way yemin Kechabyah
  Ah kwah-nahtahtah-kwahnaoon."

After singing we bow in prayer.  There is there, as there should be everywhere, a consciousness
of our dependence upon the great Helper for protection and support, and so the prayer we sang:--

  "Keep me, O keep me, King of Kings,
  Beneath Thine own Almighty wings."

is indeed our heart's desire.

Sometimes we are a hundred and fifty miles from the nearest human habitation.  We are camping
out in the woods in a hole dug in the snow. We have no walls around us but the snow thrown
out of the place in which we are huddled, with perhaps the addition of some balsam boughs.
We have no roof above us but the stars.  There in that place we are going to lie down and try
to sleep during that bitter cold night.  The light fire will soon go out.  A foot of snow may
fall upon us, and its coming will be welcomed, as its warmth will lessen our shivering.  Prowling
grey wolves may come near us, but the terrible Frost King is more to be feared than they.

Does anybody, who knows the efficacy of prayer, wonder that, as we draw near to God, "by prayer
and supplication, with thanksgiving," we crave the assurance of His favour and smile, and that
He, Who never slumbers or sleeps, will be our Guardian and our Friend?

After prayers we soon retire to rest.  The guide's familiar words soon after prayers used to
be, "Now, Missionary, I will make your bed."  This was his work, and he was an adept at it.
He first spread out a layer of evergreen boughs, and then on these he laid a large buffalo
robe, and upon this a heavy blanket.  Then, placing my pillow so that my head would be farthest
away from the fire, he would say to me, "Now, if you will get into bed, I will cover you up
and tuck you in."

Such a thing as disrobing out there in a wintry camp is unknown, unless, as the result of the
violent exercise of running all day, a person's underclothing has become very damp by perspiration,
and it is not safe to sleep in it in that condition.

Some travellers sleep in a fur bag, in which they manage to insert themselves, and then have
it tightened around their necks.  Then a large fur hood over the usual head-gear completes
their sleeping apparel.  I used to wrap myself up in a heavy overcoat over my usual apparel,
and then putting on long buffalo-skin boots, fur mits, cap, cape, and big mufflers, considered
myself rigged up for retiring.  When thus wrapped, I used to have some difficulty in getting
down into the bed, although it was only on the ground.  When in position, the guide would throw
over me another heavy blanket and fur robe.  Then very skilfully, and in a way most motherly,
he would begin at my feet and carefully tuck me in. Rapidly and deftly did he proceed with
his work, and almost before I was aware of what he was doing, he had reached my head, which
he began to cover completely up with the heavy robe which he seemed to be crowding down under
my back and shoulders.

The first time he packed me in in this manner I was only able to stand it for a minute or two,
as I thought I should be smothered.  So I very suddenly threw up my arms and sent the whole
upper covering off in a hurry.

"Do you wish to smother me, man?"  I said.  "I cannot live with my head covered up like that!"

Without any annoyance at my having so quickly undone his work, he replied very kindly, "I know
it must be hard work for you white people to sleep with your heads completely covered up, but
you will have to do it here, or you will freeze to death.  You must be very careful, for this
seems to be a very cold night indeed."  Then he called my attention to the distant thunder-like
sounds which we had been hearing occasionally during the evening.  That, he told me, was the
ice, from four to six feet thick, on the great lake, cracking in the bitter cold. "Look at
the smoke," he added.  "See how it keeps very near the ground. It does that in the bitter cold
nights."

From the trees around us we heard occasionally a sharp pistol-like report, loud enough at times
to make a nervous person fancy that lurking enemies were firing at us.

The observant Indians say these loud reports are burstings in the trees caused by the freezing
of the sap.

Admiring his cleverness and kindness, I told him that I had been taught that every person requires
so many cubic feet of fresh air; and, cold or no cold, how did he think I could get my share
with my head covered up as he desired?  "You must do with less out here," he said, as he proceeded
to cover me up again, while I tried to arrange myself so that I could at least have a small
portion of air.  Kindly and patiently he humoured me, and then, when he had finished tucking
me in, he said, "Now, Missionary, good-night; but don't stir.  If you do, you may disarrange
your coverings while you sleep, and you may freeze to death without waking up."

"Don't stir!"  What a command, I thought, to give a tired traveller whose bones ache from his
long snow-shoe tramping in the woods, whose nerves and muscles are unstrung, and who, like
others when thus fatigued, has even found it helpful to his rest and comfort to turn occasionally
and stretch his limbs!

In this frame of mind, and under this order, which, after all, I felt must be obeyed for fear
of the dire results that might follow, I at length managed to fall asleep, for I was very weary.
After a while I woke up to a state of semi-consciousness, and found myself tugging and pulling
at what I thought in my dreamy condition was the end of an axe handle.  The vague impression
on my mind was, that some careless Indian had left his axe just behind my head, and in the
night the handle had fallen across my face, and I had now got hold of the end of it. Fortunately
for me, I very quickly after this woke fully up, and then found out that what I had imagined
to be the end of an axe handle was my own nose; and a badly frozen one it was, and both of
my ears were about in the same condition.

With the guide's last orders in my ears, I think I must have gone to sleep all right, but I
suppose, from the unusual smothering sensation, unconsciously I must have pushed down the robes
from my face, and uncovered my head and my hand, and then gradually returned to consciousness
with the above results.  However, after a few nights of this severe kind of discipline, I at
length became as able to sleep with my head covered up as an Indian.

When a foot or eighteen inches of snow fell upon us, we rejoiced, for it added to our comfort,
and caused us to sleep the better.  Under this additional covering we generally rested a couple
of hours longer than usual, often to make up for the loss of sleep of the previous nights,
when we had found it impossible, or had considered it dangerous, to go to sleep.

The hardest work and the most disagreeable is the getting up from such a bed in such a place.
Often, in spite of the intense cold, we are in a kind of a clammy perspiration, on account
of the many wraps and coverings about us.  As we throw off these outer garments, and spring
up in our camp, Jack Frost instantly assails us in a way that makes us shiver, and often some
are almost compelled to cry out in bitter anguish.

Fortunately the wood is always prepared the night before, and so, as quickly as possible, a
great roaring fire is built up, and our breakfast of strong tea and fat meat is prepared and
eaten with all speed.

There were times when the morning outlook was gloomy indeed, and our position was not an enviable
one.  On one of my trips, of only a hundred and eighty miles, in order to save expense, I only
took with me one companion, and he was a young Indian lad of about sixteen years of age. We
each had our own train of dogs, and as Old Voyager was leader we guided him by voice alone,
and he did not disappoint us.  One morning, when we sprang up from our wintry camp-bed, we
found that several inches of snow had fallen upon us during the night.  As soon as possible
we arranged our wood in order and endeavoured to kindle our fire.  We had been late the previous
evening in reaching this camping place, and so had to grope around in the rapidly increasing
darkness for our wood.  It was of very inferior quality, but as we had succeeded in cooking
our suppers with part of it, we had not anticipated any trouble with the rest.  The snow which
had fallen upon it had not improved it, and so, as we lighted match after match, we were at
first disgusted, and then alarmed, at finding that the poor stuff persistently refused to ignite.
Of course we had to take our hands out of our big fur mits when trying to light the matches.
Before we had succeeded in our attempts to start the fire our hands began to chill, and soon
they were so powerless that we were not able to hold a match in our fingers.  Very naturally
we became alarmed, but we persevered as long as possible.  I remember that, taking one of the
matches between my teeth and holding up an axe before me, I tried to jerk my head quick enough
to light it in that way, but the experiment was not a success.

Suddenly there came the consciousness that we were not far from perishing if we could not make
a fire.  I quickly turned to my young comrade, and saw by the look in his face that he also
grasped the situation, and was terrified at the outlook.

"Alec," I said, "this is a serious thing for us."

"Yes, Missionary," said he.  "I am afraid we die here.  If we can make no fire and have no
breakfast, I am afraid we will freeze to death."

"Not so bad as that yet, Alec," I said.  "God is our refuge and help. He has given us other
ways by which we can get warm.  As quickly as possible get on your snow-shoes, and up with
your hood and on with your mits, and I will do likewise, and now see if you can catch me."

In much less time than I have taken to describe it, we were rigged up for rapid snow-shoe running,
and were off.  Away I rushed through the woods as rapidly as I could on my snow-shoes.  The
lad followed me, and thus we ran chasing and catching each other alternately as though we were
a couple of boisterous schoolboys instead of a Missionary and his Indian companion striving
to save themselves from freezing to death.

After about half an hour of this most vigorous exercise, we felt the warmth coming back to
our bodies, and then the hot blood began working its way out to our benumbed hands, and by-and-by
we could bend our fingers again.  When we felt the comfortable glow of warmth over our whole
bodies, we rushed back again to the camp, and, gathering a quantity of birch bark which we
found loosely hanging from the trees, and which is very inflammable, we soon had a good fire
and then our hot breakfast.  At our morning devotions which followed there was a good deal
of thanksgiving, and the grateful spirit continued in our hearts as we packed up our loads,
harnessed up our dogs, and sped on our way.  It was a very narrow escape.  The King of Terrors
looked us both in the face that cold morning, and very nearly chilled us into death by the
icy fingers of the Frost King.

As the hours of daylight in the winter months in these high latitudes are so few, we generally
roused ourselves up several hours before daylight.  Often my kind-hearted men endeavoured to
get up first, and have a rousing fire made and breakfast cooked, before I would awake. This,
however, did not occur very often, as such a bed was not conducive to sleep; so, generally,
after about four or five hours in such a state of suffocation, I was thankful to get up the
instant I heard any one stirring.  I would rather freeze to death than be suffocated.

There were times not a few when I was the first to get up, and kindle the fire and cook the
breakfast before I called my faithful wearied companions, who, long accustomed to such hardships,
could sleep on soundly, where for me it was an absolute impossibility.  Sometimes my men, when
thus aroused, would look up at the stars and say "Assam weputch," i.e., "Very early."  All
I had to do was to look gravely at my watch, and this satisfied them that it was all right.
The breakfast was quickly eaten, our prayers were said, our sleds loaded, dogs captured and
harnessed--with the Esquimaux ones this was not always an easy task--and we were ready to start.

Before starting we generally threw the evergreen brush on which we had slept on the fire, and
by its ruddy, cheerful light began our day's journey.  When some mornings we made from twenty-five
to forty miles before sunrise, the Indians began to think the stars were about right after
all, and the Missionary's watch very fast.  However, they were just as willing to get on rapidly
as I was, and so did not find fault with the way in which I endeavoured to hurry our party
along.  I paid them extra whenever the record of a trip was broken, and we could lessen the
number of nights in those open-air camps in the snow.

We were six days in making our first winter trip to Nelson River.  In after years we reduced
it to four days.  The trail is through one of the finest fur-producing regions of the North-West.
Here the wandering Indian hunters make their living by trapping such animals as the black and
silver foxes, as well as the more common varieties of that animal. Here are to be found otters,
minks, martens, beavers, ermines, bears, wolves, and many other kinds of the fur-bearing animals.
Here the black bears are very numerous.  On one canoe trip one summer we saw no less than seven
of them, one of which we shot and lived on for several days.

Here come the adventurous fur traders to purchase these valuable skins, and great fortunes
have been made in the business.  If, merely to make money and get rich, men are willing to
come and put up with the hardships and privations of the country, what a disgrace to us if,
for their souls' sake, we are afraid to follow in these hunters' trail, or, if need be, show
them the way, that we may go with the glad story of a Saviour's love!

CHAPTER EIGHT.

NELSON RIVER--A DEMONSTRATIVE WELCOME--FIRST RELIGIOUS SERVICE--A FOUR HOURS' SERMON--THE CHIEF'S
ELOQUENT REPLY--THE OLD MAN WITH GRANDCHILDREN IN HIS WIGWAM--"OUR FATHER"--"THEN WE ARE BROTHERS"--"YES"--"THEN
WHY IS THE WHITE BROTHER SO LONG TIME IN COMING WITH THE GOSPEL TO HIS RED BROTHER?"--GLORIOUS
SUCCESSES.

It was at my second visit to Nelson River that the work really commenced.  Through some unforeseen
difficulty at the first visit, many of the natives were away.  Hunting is even at the best
a precarious mode of obtaining a livelihood.  Then, as the movements of the herds of deer,
upon the flesh of which many of these Indians subsist for the greater part of the year, are
very erratic, it is often difficult to arrange for a place of meeting, where food can be obtained
in sufficient abundance while the religious services are being held.

It used to be very discouraging, after having travelled for several days together, either by
canoe in summer, or dog-trains in winter, to reach a certain place which had been arranged
for meeting, and find very few present.  The deer, and other animals on which they had expected
to live, had gone in another direction, and the Indians had been obliged to follow them.

Everything, however, favoured us on our second visit.  We found over fifty families camped
at the place of meeting, and full of curiosity to see the Missionary.  They had all sorts of
strange notions in their minds.  When Mr Rundle, of the English Wesleyan Church, first went
among some of the wild tribes of the great Saskatchewan country, with his open Bible, preaching
the wonderful Gospel truths, great was the excitement of the people to know where this strange
man had come from. So a great council was summoned, and the conjurers were ordered to find
out all about it.  After a great deal of drumming and dreaming and conjuring, they gravely
reported that this strange man with his wonderful book had been wrapped up in an envelope,
and had come down from the Great Spirit on a rainbow!

The Nelson River Indians welcomed me very cordially, and were much more demonstrative in their
greetings than were any of the other tribes I had visited, although I had had my share of strange
welcomes.  Here the custom of handshaking was but little known, but the more ancient one of
kissing prevailed.  Great indeed was my amazement when I found myself surrounded by two hundred
and fifty or three hundred wild Indians, men, women, and children, whose faces seemed in blissful
ignorance of soap and water, but all waiting to kiss me.  I felt unable to stand the ordeal,
and so I managed to put them off with a shake of the hand, and a kind word or two.

At eight o'clock the next morning we called the Indians together for the first public religious
service which most of them had ever attended. They were intensely interested.  My Christian
Indians from Norway House aided me in the opening services, and, being sweet singers, added
very much to the interest.  We sang several hymns, read a couple of lessons from the Bible,
and engaged in prayer.  They had never heard a sermon before; they were ignorant of the simplest
truths of our blessed Christianity; and so I had to make everything plain and clear as I went
along.  I could not take anything for granted with that audience.  So I had to take them back
to the Creation and Fall.  Then I spoke of God's love in providence and grace; and of His greatest
act of love, the gift of His only begotten beloved Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, Who died that
we might live.  I dwelt on the benefits which come to us from the personal acceptance of this
Saviour.  I tried hard to show how we, who had wandered so far away, were invited back to actual
adoption into God's great family, as a conscious reality.  I spoke of the universality and
impartiality of God's love; of His willingness to receive all, to fill our hearts with joy
and peace, to comfort us all through life, to sustain us in death, and then to take us to everlasting
life in a world of light and glory.

The ever-blessed Spirit most graciously applied the truth, as I tried, in the simplest and
plainest way, to bring it down to their comprehension.  The attention they gave showed that
my words were being understood.  Their bright eyes glistened and at times were suffused with
tears, and as I closed the long-pent-up silence gave place to loud exclamations of delight.

Then we translated into their language and sang part of the good old hymn:--

  "O for a thousand tongues to sing
  My great Redeemer's praise,
  The glories of my God and King,
  The triumphs of His grace!"

Again we bowed in prayer, and, at my request, they repeated after me all the petitions which
in short easy sentences we offered up to Him Who is the Hearer and Answerer of prayer.  A spirit
of awe and solemnity seemed to rest upon us.  It was the first time the great majority had
ever attempted to pray in the Name of Jesus, and I felt a sweet assurance that those simple
petitions, from the hearts and lips of those poor Indians, were not despised by Him Whose great
heart of love beats so true to all.  After prayer I requested them all to again seat themselves
on the ground, as I wished to hear from them about these great truths which I had come so far
to tell them of.  I wanted to know what were their wishes and determinations about becoming
Christians.  When I had finished, every eye turned towards the principal chief, as these Indians,
like the other tribes, have their unwritten laws of precedence.  Here is the bare outline of
his speech, as, with my interpreter to aid me, I shortly afterwards wrote it down.

"Missionary, I have long lost faith in our old paganism."  So I for years have had no religion."

Loud expressions of approval greeted these words of the chief.  When he had finished, I said,
"I want to hear from others, and I want your own views on these important things."  Many responded
to my request, and, with the exception of an old conjurer or two, who feared for their occupation,
all spoke in the same strain as did the head chief.  The last to speak was an old man with
grizzly hair, and wild, excited movements.  He was a queer, savage-looking man, and came from
the rear of the company to the front with strange springy movements.  His hair was braided,
and reached to his knees.  Threading his way through the audience, he came up close to me,
and then, pushing his fingers into his hair as far as its braided condition would allow, he
exclaimed in a tone full of earnestness, "Missionary, once my hair was as black as a crow's
wing, now it is getting white.  Grey hairs here, and grandchildren in the wigwam, tell me that
I am getting to be an old man; and yet I never before heard such things as you have told us
to-day.  I am so glad I did not die before I heard this wonderful story.  Yet I am getting
old. Grey hairs here, and grandchildren yonder, tell the story.  Stay as long as you can, Missionary,
tell us much of these things, and when you have to go away, come back soon, for I have grandchildren,
and I have grey hairs, and may not live many winters more.  Do come back soon."

He turned as though he would go back to his place and sit down; but he only went a step or
two ere he turned round and faced me, and said, "Missionary, may I say more?"

"Talk on," I said.  "I am here now to listen."

"You said just now, `Notawenan.'" ("Our Father.")

"Yes," I said, "I did say, `Our Father.'"

"That is very new and sweet to us," he said.  "We never thought of the Great Spirit as Father:
we heard Him in the thunder, and saw Him in the lightning, and tempest; and blizzard, and we
were afraid.  So, when you tell us of the Great Spirit as Father, that is very beautiful to us."

Hesitating a moment, he stood there, a wild, picturesque Indian, yet my heart had strangely
gone out in loving interest and sympathy to him.

Lifting up his eyes to mine, again he said, "May I say more?"

"Yes," I answered, "say on."

"You say, `Notawenan'."  ("Our Father").  "He is your Father?"

"Yes, He is my Father."

Then he said, while his eyes and voice yearned for the answer, "Does it mean He is my Father--poor
Indian's Father?"

"Yes, O yes!"  I exclaimed.  "He is your Father too."

"Your Father--missionary's Father, and Indian's Father, too!" he repeated.

"Yes, that is true," I answered.

"Then we are brothers?" he almost shouted out.

"Yes, we are brothers," I replied.  The excitement in the audience had become something wonderful.
When our conversation with the old man had reached this point, and in such an unexpected, and
yet dramatic manner, had so clearly brought out, not only the Fatherhood of God, but the oneness
of the human family, the people could hardly restrain their expressions of delight.  The old
man, however, had not yet finished, and so, quietly restraining the most demonstrative ones,
he again turned to me, and said,--

"May I say more?"

"Yes, say on; say all that is in your heart."

Never can I forget his answer.

"Well, I do not want to be rude, but it does seem to me that you, my white brother, have been
a long time in coming with that great Book and its wonderful story, to tell it to your red
brothers in the woods."

This question thrilled me, and I found it hard to answer.  This is the question that millions
of weary, longing, waiting souls, dissatisfied with their false religions, and craving for
that soul rest which only can be found in the hearty acceptance of the glorious Gospel of the
Son of God, are asking.  I tried to apologise for the slowness of the advancement of the Redeemer's
kingdom, and the apathy of those who, while acknowledging the brotherhood of humanity, so often
forget that they are their brother's keeper.

We closed the service for a brief period, and then, as soon as a hurried dinner had been eaten,
we all assembled again for the afternoon service. This second service lasted for five hours.
After singing and prayer, I read the beautiful story of the Ethiopian eunuch, and the Baptismal
Service.  I endeavoured to explain what we meant by becoming Christians, and stated that I
was willing to baptize all who would renounce their paganism, with its polygamy, conjuring,
gambling, and other vices, and from that time begin to worship the true God.  Polygamy was
the greatest stumbling-block among them, as some of them had three or four wives. Intemperance
here is but little known, on account perhaps of the great difficulty of importing liquor into
a region so remote from civilisation.

After I had spent a long time in making clear the doctrines or the blessed Book, and had answered
many questions, I invited all who were willing to comply with these conditions, and desired
baptism, to come to the front of the audience, where I was standing.

About forty men and women immediately responded, and came forward and seated themselves at
my feet.  Some were trembling, others were weeping: all seemed deeply moved.  Then I read the
beautiful Scripture lessons in connection with the baptismal service for children, and dwelt
upon the love of Jesus for children, and His willingness to receive them.  I invited the parents
to consecrate their children to God, even if they themselves were as yet undecided.  We had
a solemn and impressive time.

All desired new names, and for the great majority I had to make the selection.  While baptizing
them and selecting Christian names as additions to their generally poetic and expressive Indian
names, my constant prayer was, that they might "see His face, and His name" be Written "in
their foreheads."

Still there was some opposition.  Satan would not thus easily be dispossessed or driven out.
Old conjurers and medicine men, faithful followers of the enemy, quickly began their opposition.
Their selfish natures were aroused.  They were shrewd enough to see that if I succeeded, as
I was likely to do, they, like Demetrius, the shrine-maker of Diana, would soon be without
an occupation.  So at this afternoon gathering they were there to oppose.  But they were in
such a helpless minority that they dared do no worse than storm and threaten.  One savage old
conjurer rushed up to me, just as I was about to baptize his wife, who, with many others, had
come for this sign and seal of her acceptance of Christ.  Before I had perceived his purpose,
or had power to stop him, he seized and shook her roughly, and, looking at me, in his impotent
wrath, said in an insulting manner,--

"Call her Atim," ("dog").

"No," I said, looking kindly at the poor trembling woman, "I will do nothing of the kind; but
I will give her the sweetest name ever borne by woman, for it was the name of the mother of Jesus."

So I baptized her Mary.

We spent several days in giving lessons in the Syllabic characters between the religious services,
three of which we endeavoured to hold each day.  Sometimes we assembled all the people together,
and, with these characters marked on the side of a rock with a burnt stick, we taught them
as best we could.  At other times we went from tent to tent, and gave them lessons, and had
religious conversation and prayer.

It was on one of these rounds of wigwam visitations that I came across Pe-pe-qua-na-pua, or
Sandy Harte, the story of whose life and conversion has been so widely circulated.  Several
acquired such a knowledge of these characters that, by persevering for a few weeks, they were
able to read very nicely in the blessed Book.

I left with them several dozen copies of the New Testament, Hymn-books, and Catechisms, in
their own language.

So great was their anxiety for religious instruction, that many of them remained for three
days after they had eaten all of their provisions. When I first heard this, I could hardly
credit it, but found out by personal investigation that it was the actual fact.  With tears
in their eyes they bade me farewell, and said, that on account of their famishing children
they must start off for their fishing and hunting grounds.  But they added, "What we have heard
from you will make us glad and thankful all the time."

With my faithful travelling companions, I made a trip out from Nelson River to another small
band about thirty miles away.  We spent the Sabbath in a miserable wigwam, where the snow and
sleet dashed in upon us, making us shiver in spite of all we could do.  Still, as the poor
Indians were anxious to hear the Gospel, we soon forgot our physical discomforts in the joy
of preaching this great salvation.  Nineteen of them accepted Christ as their Saviour, and
were baptized.  We held a meeting for the purpose of hearing them tell of their wishes as to
this blessed religion.  Many very interesting things were said.  We here record only one.

A fine-looking man said, "What has fully decided me to endeavour to be a good Christian all
my days is this.  The Missionary has told us many reasons, all sufficient to decide us; but
the one that came very near to my heart was, that all the little children who have died have
been taken to that better land, and there they are with the loving Saviour in heaven.  My little
ones have passed away, leaving my heart sore and bleeding.  I yearn after them; I long to meet
them again.  So I want so to live that when I die Jesus will permit me to embrace them, and
never be separated from them again."

On this trip, we found at another small encampment a young girl, about twelve years of age,
dying of consumption.  I talked to her of Jesus and heaven, and prayed with her several times.
When the closing scene drew near, she said to her sorrowing mother, "I am glad the praying
man has told me such words of comfort.  I have lost that dread of death I had. I believe that
dear Jesus will take me to that better land; but, mother, when you come, will you look for
me until you find me? for I do wish to see you again."

Is it any wonder that I became deeply attached to these Nelson River Indians?  I visited them
twice a year, and by pen and voice pleaded for them until my heart's desire was obtained, and
a brother beloved volunteered to go and live among them.  Of him with joy I write.

CHAPTER NINE.

A WELCOME ACCESSION--THE REVEREND JOHN SEMMENS--A DEVOTED YOUNG MISSIONARY--FIRST TO RESIDE
AT NELSON RIVER--IN LABOURS AND IN PERILS OFT--IN JOURNEYINGS OFT BY DOG-TRAINS TOGETHER--THE
CENTENARIAN OLD CHRISTIAN--WILLIAM PAPANEKIS--HIS GODLY LIFE AND WONDROUS TRANSLATION.

One cold wintry morning we were gladdened by the arrival of a dear brother and colleague in
the work, the Reverend John Semmens, who had left a comfortable charge in Ontario, and had
come out to help me in the prosecution of the blessed work.  Brother Semmens had to taste,
early in his missionary work among the Indians, some of the dangers incident to such a life.
He came to us at Norway House in the depth of the winter, and suffered much from the intense
cold and blizzard storms.  One night, while trying to rest in the camp in the woods on his
way out, a fierce storm blew down a large tree, which fell very close to him. Providentially
no one was hurt.

He soon became very popular among the Indians, for whom he subsequently gave many years of
successful, self-denying toil.  His presence with us in our home was a great joy.  None but
those who have been deprived of the pleasure of the society and fellowship of kindred spirits
can realise what a benediction this sweet-spirited and devoted young brother was in our home.
With one great object before us, that of doing the greatest possible good we could to the Indians
among whom we were called to labour, and fortunately seeing "eye to eye" as to the methods
of our work, we spent some months and broken years in harmony in doing what we could.

Brother Semmens' name will ever be associated with the Nelson River Mission, as he was the
first missionary to go and live in that region of country and among those wandering Aborigines,
who had received me with such expressions of joy when on my visits, so few, alas! and far between.
Very many indeed were Mr Semmens' hardships.  Their wandering life made his work slow and at
times discouraging.  He had not at first a knowledge of their language, and could not always
get an interpreter. However, as the love of Christ was the constraining motive, he persevered,
and great indeed was his success among them.

We will not here insert any of the many thrilling incidents of his romantic pioneer work among
them.  We hope that from his fluent pen will come his own record, which will be a very valuable
addition to missionary literature.  Often did we, like the early ones sent out by the Master
in pairs, go together on some long and difficult exploring tours.  At many a camp-fire and
in many a wigwam have we talked and pleaded with the wandering Indians, and have besought them
to be reconciled to God.  Hundreds of miles have we tramped on together, until our limbs were
cramped and our feet were bleeding; and then, in the cold camp after supper and prayers, have
we crowded in close together under the same robes and tried to sleep.  Will either of us ever
forget the trip in to District Meeting at Winnipeg, where on the great Lake we got separated
from the rest of our party, but by rapid travelling reached the comfortable home and cordial
welcome of our beloved Chairman, the Reverend George Young, thus escaping the terrible blizzard
in which so many suffered?  Then the return trip was equally exciting and perilous. We left
Winnipeg on the Saturday afternoon with our heavily loaded dog sleds.  At Mr Sifton's, near
Selkirk, we were cordially welcomed, and here we remained in quiet rest and joyous worship
during the Sabbath day.  When the clock struck the hour of midnight, we exchanged our black
clothes for our leather suits.  We harnessed up our dogs, and then, after eating a midnight
meal, we bade our host and hostess farewell, and pushed out under the stars on our long journey
to the far North.  Mr Semmens' journey would not be finished until he was six or seven hundred
miles nearer the North Pole.

Mr Sifton told me in after years, that they could only sit there and weep as they thought of
our starting off in the bitter cold and gloom of that midnight hour on such a journey.  Missionary
work to them from that hour took on itself additional interest, and ever after much greater,
if possible, was their love for those who for His sake were willing to endure hardness in extending
the knowledge of His Name.

Ere the sun rose, we were near the Willow Islands, and there we had our breakfast.  It was
getting late in the winter season, and so the reflection of the brilliant rays of the sun on
the dazzlingly white snowy waste of Winnipeg gave us both a touch of snow-blindness.  Still,
as we could see a little, we only stopped when it was necessary, and rapidly hurried on.  When
about twenty miles from Beren's River night came down upon us; but I could not bear the idea
of having again to sleep in a miserable camp when home was so near, for at this time I was
in charge of the new work among the Saulteaux.  So I said to Brother Semmens, and to our two
well-disciplined dog-drivers, "Courage, men, a little longer; let us not stop here in the bitter
cold when our homes are so near."  The Indians responded with a will, and rejoiced that we
were to go on.  But my beloved Brother Semmens was completely tired out, and my heart was filled
with sorrow as I saw how utterly exhausted he was.  Throwing himself down on the cold, icy
surface of the lake, he said, "Throw me out a blanket and a piece of pemmican, and leave me
here.  I cannot go a step further.  The rest of you have wives and children to lure you on
to your homes; I have none.  I can go no farther.  My feet are bleeding from the straps of
my snowshoes.  I will stay here.  Never mind me."

Thus the dear fellow talked, for he was exhausted and discouraged.  I did not feel much better,
but I tried to put a bold face on the matter, and I said, "No, indeed, we will not leave you
here.  We are going on, and we are going to take you with us; and a good supper under a roof,
and then a warm bed, are to be yours before morning comes."

One of my dogs, called Muff, a magnificent but over-ambitious St. Bernard, the gift of Mrs
Andrew Allen, of Montreal, had broken her collar-bone during this trip.  The plan generally
adopted, when such an accident happens to one of the dogs, was to kill it at once, and then
push on with the diminished train.  However, as Muff was such a valuable dog, and there was
a possibility of her recovering, I decided to carry her home, although we were a long distance
from it.  I so arranged my sled that she could ride upon it, and she soon became quite reconciled
to her place.  But it meant a good deal of hard running for me.  Before the accident occurred,
I could ride a great part of the time, although we had over six hundred pounds weight upon
the sled.  However, as Jack was one of the train, I was able to ride when the ice was good.
Now, however, with one dog less in the train, and that one as so much additional weight on
the sled, it meant the end of my riding for that trip.

Very quickly did I decide how to act in order to help my dear companion in tribulation.  With
our axes my Indians and myself chopped a hole in the solidly packed snow and ice near the shore
of the lake.  In this we spread out a buffalo robe, and on it we placed the injured dog.  Then
around her we placed the greater part of the load of the dog-sled, and then covered all up
as well as we could with the large deer-skin sleigh wrapper.  Giving the dog orders to guard
well the supplies from prowling wild animals, and making a large number of tracks as an additional
precaution, we left Muff there with her goods.

Then we drove the dogs over to the spot where Mr Semmens lay, and, wrapping him well up in
robes and putting a little pillow under his head, we tied him on the sled, and started off
on the last stage of our journey.  We were all so weary that we made but slow progress, and
it was after midnight ere the welcome Mission House was reached, and we were within the walls
of home.

Mr Semmens had fortunately slept most of the way.  A good supper, after a warm bath, and then
a long, sweet, dreamless sleep, that lasted until nearly noon of the next day, wonderfully
refreshed his spirits, and as he came down and greeted us, his first words were, "O Egerton,
I am so glad you did not leave me there to perish on the ice!"

Still in his prime, with a noble wife and precious children around him, he is in that land
doing good service for the Master.  From him we yet expect to hear good tidings, for in physical
strength and mental equipment and thorough consecration to his work he is the peer of any who
there toil.

THE CENTENARIAN.

One of the first Indians to attract our attention at Norway House was a venerable-looking old
man of more than usual height.  His appearance was quite patriarchal.  His welcome had been
most cordial, and his words seemed to us like a loving benediction.  He called us his children,
and welcomed us to our home and work in the name of the Lord Jesus.

As he was very aged, and had to come a long distance from his home to the Sunday morning service,
we invited him, on the first Sunday after our arrival at the Mission, to dine with us.  He
was very grateful, and said this would enable him to remain for the afternoon native service,
which he dearly prized.  He was not only a blessed Christian, but a natural gentleman.  We
were so drawn towards him that we invited him to dine with us, and then rest awhile, each Sabbath
between the services.

Like all the old Indians, his age was unknown, but it must have been over a century, as men
above fifty said he was called an old man when they were boys.  The fact that his name had
been on the Hudson's Bay Company's book for eighty years, as a skilful hunter, makes it quite
safe to class him as a centenarian.

His testimony to the blessedness of the Gospel was very clear and delightful.  He "knew Whom
he had believed," and ever rejoiced in the blessed assurance that he would have grace given
to keep him to the end. He was one of the first converts of the early Missionaries, and had
remained true and steadfast.  He had been a successful Class Leader for many years, and faithfully
and well did he attend to his duties.  If any of his members were not at the meeting, he knew
the reason why before the next evening, if they were within five or six miles of his home.

As he lived a couple of years after we reached the Mission, we got to be very well acquainted,
and it was ever a blessing to talk to him of spiritual things.  I had a very convincing evidence
one day of the thoroughness with which he had renounced his old pagan life and its sinful practices.
We had been talking on various subjects, and the matter of different kinds of beliefs came
up.  As he had a very retentive memory, and I had been told that he was the best authority
on old Indian religions and superstitions, I took out of my pocket a note- book and pencil,
and said, "Mismis" (English, "Grandfather"), "I want you to tell me some things about your
old conjurings and religions.  I may want to write a book some time, and put some of these
things in it."

The dear old man's face became clouded, and he shook his head and remained silent.

I urged my request, saying I felt certain he, from his great age, must have much to talk about.
For his answer, he sat down in his chair, and, putting his elbows on his knees, buried his
face in his hands, and seemed lost in a kind of reverie.

I waited for a few minutes, for all was hushed and still.  His family had heard my question,
and they had become intensely interested.  The silence became almost painful, and so I said
in a cheery strain, "Come, grandfather, I am waiting to write down what you have to say."

Suddenly he sprang up in a way that startled us all, and, stretching out his hand like an orator,
he began:--

"Missionary! the old wicked life is like a nightmare, like a bad dream, like a terrible sickness
that made us cry out with pain.  I am trying to banish it, to forget it, to wipe it out of
my memory.  Please do not ask me to talk about it, or to bring it up.  I could not sleep; I
should be miserable."

Of course I put up my book and pencil, and did not further trouble the dear old man, who seemed
so loth to talk about his old belief.

The next Sunday after this interview we had a Fellowship Meeting in the church.  One of the
first to speak was this venerable grandfather.  He said, "The Missionary wanted me to talk
to him about my old religion.  I could not do it.  It was my enemy.  It only made me miserable.
The more I followed it, the more unhappy I was.  So I have cast it out of my life, and from
my heart.  Would that I could wash it out of my memory!" Then he added, "But perhaps the memory
of it helps to make me love my Saviour better, as I can remember from what He has saved me.
I was so far from him, and so dark and sinful He reached down His strong arm and lifted me
out of the dark place, and put me into the light.  O, I am so thankful Jesus saves me, and
I love to talk about it."

And he did talk about it, and our hearts rejoiced with him.

Of him it could be truthfully said, "What he once loved he now hates, and does it so thoroughly
that he does not even wish to talk about it."

While writing these pleasant memories, perhaps I cannot do better than here record the remarkable
closing scenes of the life of this venerable old man, the patriarch of the village.  His family
was a large one.  He had several sons.  Worthy, excellent men they were.  About some of them
we shall have interesting things to say.  The youngest, Edward, it was my joy to lead into
the sweet assurance that his sins were all forgiven. In July, 1889, he was ordained, in Winnipeg,
to the office and work of the Christian ministry.

Martin, another of his sons, was one of my most loved and trusted guides, and my companion,
for thousands of miles, in birch canoe by summer, and dog-trains by winter.  We have looked
death in the face together many times, but I never knew him to flinch or play a coward's part.

  "Through waves and clouds and storms
  He gently clears thy way:
  Wait thou His time, so shall this night
  Soon end in joyous day."

Very precious and very real were many of the blessed promises, and their fulfilment, to us
in those times of peril and danger, when death seemed to be so near, and we so helpless and
dependent upon the Almighty arm.

Another son of this old saint was Samuel, the courageous guide and modest, unassuming Christian.
He was the one who guided his well-loaded brigade up the mighty Saskatchewan river to the rescue
of the whites there, and having safely and grandly done his work, "holding on to God," went
up the shining way so triumphantly that there lingered behind on his once pallid face some
radiance of the glory like that into which he had entered; and some seeing it were smitten
with a longing to have it as their portion, and so, then and there, they gave themselves to
God. Of him we shall hear more farther on.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

One day when the venerable father met his class, he told his members that his work was nearly
done, and very soon indeed he expected to pass over to the better land.  Although as well as
he had been for months, yet he had a premonition that the end of his life was near.  Very lovingly
and faithfully did he talk to them, and exhorted them to be faithful to the end.

The next day he sent for me, and requested me to appoint one of his sons as leader of his class,
if I thought him worthy of the place.

I said, "We do not want to lose you.  Your class members all love you. Why resign your position?"

A strange look in his face told me that he had set his heart on joining another company, and
that it seemed as though he were only postponing his departure until his little affairs on
earth were set in order.

"I am going very soon now, and I want to have everything settled before I go; and I shall be
so glad to see my son William leader of my class, if you think it best."

As the son was a most excellent man the appointment was made, much to the aged father's delight.

The next day he had assembled all the old members who had renounced paganism and become Christians
at the same time as he did, over thirty years before.  There were enough of them to fill his
house, and all came who possibly could.  They sang and prayed together, and then he stood up
before them and addressed them in loving and affectionate words.

As I sat there and looked upon the scene, while, for about an hour, he was reviewing the past,
and talking of God's goodness in bringing them out of paganism, and conferring so many blessings
upon them, I thought of Joshua's memorable gathering of the elder people at Shechem to hear
his dying charge.  At his request I administered to them all, and those of his many relations
who were worthy, the sacrament of the Lord's Supper.  It was a most impressive time.  He Whose
dying we celebrated seemed in Spirit very blessedly near.

Then perhaps another hour was spent, at his desire, in singing his favourite hymns and in prayer.
He entered with great spirit into the devotions, and many said afterwards, "Heaven seemed very
near."  I shook hands with him and said, "Goodbye," and returned to my home.  With the exception
of a little weariness on account of the exciting services through which he had passed, I saw
no change in him.  His voice was just as cheery, his eye as bright, his grip as firm as usual,
and I saw no reason why he should not live a good while yet.

About an hour after, while talking the matter over with Mrs Young, and giving her some of the
specially interesting incidents of the memorable services with our dear old friend, there was
a sudden call for me by an Indian, who, rushing in without any ceremony, exclaimed, "Come quickly;
grandfather is dead!"  I hurriedly returned with him, and found that the aged patriarch had
indeed passed away.

They told me that after I had left them he continued for a time to speak loving words of counsel
and advice to them.  Then, as had been his habit, he lay down on his bed, and drew his blanket
around him, as though prepared for rest.  As they knew he must be weary, they kept very still,
so as not to disturb him.  Not hearing him breathe, one of them touched him, and found that
he had fallen into that sleep which here knows no waking.  He was not, for God had taken him.

It was a remarkable death.  The great difficulty among us seemed to be, to realise the presence
of death at all.  He suffered from no disease, and never complained of pain.  His mind was
unclouded till the last.  In his humble position he had done his work, and done it well; and
so now, with all the confidence of a loving child resting in the arms of a mother, he laid
his head down on the bosom of his Lord.

With rejoicings, rather than weepings, we laid in the little graveyard all that was mortal
of William Papanekis.  We missed him very much, for his presence was like the sunshine, and
his prayers were benedictions upon us all.

CHAPTER TEN.

REVEREND JAMES EVANS, THE PEERLESS MISSIONARY--HIS JOURNEYS BY CANOE AND DOG-TRAIN--THE CREE
SYLLABIC CHARACTERS, HIS INVENTION--LORD DUFFERIN'S WORDS CONCERNING HIM--HIS SUCCESSES--HIS
TRIALS--ACCIDENTAL SHOOTING OF HIS INTERPRETER--SURRENDERING HIMSELF TO THE AVENGERS--ADOPTED
INTO A PAGAN FAMILY--VISIT TO ENGLAND--SUDDEN DEATH.

Without any question, the Reverend James Evans was the grandest and most successful of all
our Indian Missionaries.  Of him it can be said most emphatically, "While others have done
well, he excelled them all."

In burning zeal, in heroic efforts, in journeyings oft, in tact that never failed in many a
trying hour, in success most marvellous, in a vivacity and sprightliness that never succumbed
to discouragement, in a faith that never faltered, and in a solicitude for the spread of our
blessed Christianity that never grew less, James Evans stands among us without a peer.

If full accounts of his long journeys in the wilds of the great North- West could be written,
they would equal in thrilling interest anything of the kind known in modern missionary annals.
There is hardly an Indian Mission of any prominence to-day in the whole of the vast North-
West, whether belonging to the Church of England, the Roman Catholic, or the Methodist Church,
that James Evans did not commence; and the reason why the Methodist Church to-day does not
hold them all is, because the apathetic Church did not respond to his thrilling appeals, and
send in men to take possession and hold the fields as fast as they were successfully opened
up by him.

From the northern shores of Lake Superior away to the ultima Thule that lies beyond the waters
of Athabasca and Slave Lakes, where the Aurora Borealis holds high carnival; from the beautiful
prairies of the Bow and Saskatchewan Rivers to the muskegs and sterile regions of Hudson's
Bay; from the fair and fertile domains of Red and Assinaboia Rivers, to the foot-hills of the
Rocky Mountains, enduring footprints of James Evans may still be seen.

At many a camp-fire, and in many a lonely wigwam, old Indians yet linger, whose eyes brighten
and whose tongues wax eloquent as they recall that man whose deeds live on, and whose converts
from a degrading paganism are still to be counted by scores.  Many a weary hour has been charmed
away, as I have listened to Papanekis the elder, or Henry Budd, or some other old Indian guide
or dog-driver, or canoe-man, while they rehearsed the thrilling adventures, the narrow escapes,
the wonderful deliverances, and also some of the tragic events, through which they passed in
company with the "Nistum Ayumeaookemou," the "first Missionary."

The dog-drivers loved to talk about Mr Evans' wonderful train of half dogs, half wolves, with
which for years he travelled.  With great enthusiasm they would talk of their marvellous speed
and endurance, of their fierceness and sagacity; of how, when the nights in the wintry camps
were unusually cold--say fifty or sixty degrees below zero--these fierce animals would crowd
into the camp, and, lying on their backs, would hold up both their fore and hind feet, and
thus mutely beg for some one to have compassion upon them and put on the warm woollen dog- shoes.

His canoe trips were often of many weeks' duration, and extended for thousands of miles.  No
river seemed too rapid, and no lake too stormy, to deter him in his untiring zeal to find out
the Indian in his solitudes, and preach to him the ever-blessed Gospel.  Ever on the look-
out for improvements to aid him in more rapid transit through the country, Mr Evans constructed
a canoe out of sheet tin.  This the Indians called the "Island of light," on account of its
flashing back the sun's rays as it glided along propelled by the strong paddles in the hands
of the well trained crew.  With them they carried in this novel craft solder and soldering-iron,
and when they had the misfortune to run upon a rock they went ashore and quickly repaired the
injured place.

Mr Evans had been for years a Minister and Missionary in the Canadian Methodist Church.  With
the Reverend William Case he had been very successfully employed among the Indians in the Province
of Ontario. When the English Wesleyan Society decided to begin work among the neglected tribes
in the Hudson's Bay Territories, the Reverend James Evans was the man appointed to be the leader
of the devoted band.  In order to reach Norway House, which was to be his first principal Mission,
his household effects had to be shipped from Toronto to England, and thence reshipped to York
Factory on the Hudson Bay.  From this place they had to be taken up by boats to Norway House
in the interior, a distance of five hundred miles.  Seventy times had they to be lifted out
of these inland boats and carried along the portages around falls and cataracts ere they reached
their destination.

Mr Evans himself went by boat from Toronto.  The trip from Thunder Bay in Lake Superior to
Norway House was performed in a birch bark canoe. Hundreds of Indians listened to his burning
messages, and great good was done by him and his faithful companions in arms, among them being
the heroic Mr Barnley, and Mr Rundle, of the English Wesleyan Church.

The great work of Mr Evans' life, and that with which his name will be ever associated, was
undoubtedly the invention and perfecting of what is now so widely known as the Cree Syllabic
Characters.  What first led him to this invention was the difficulty he and others had in teaching
the Indians to read in the ordinary way.  They are hunters, and so are very much on the move,
like the animals they seek.  To-day their tents are pitched where there is good fishing, and
perhaps in two weeks they are far away in the deep forests, where roam the reindeer, or on
the banks of streams where the beavers build their wonderful dams and curious homes.  The constant
thought in this master Missionary's mind was, "Can I possibly devise a plan by which these
wandering people can learn to read more easily?"

Many were Mr Evans' difficulties in perfecting this invention and putting it in practical use,
even after he had got the scheme clear and distinct in his own mind.  He was hundreds of miles
away from civilisation.  Very little indeed had he with which to work.  Yet with him there
was no such word as failure.  Obtaining, as a great favour, the thin sheets of lead that were
around the tea-chests of the fur traders, he melted these down into little bars, and from them
cut out his first types.  His ink was made out of the soot of the chimneys, and his first paper
was birch bark.  After a good deal of effort, and the exercise of much ingenuity, he made a
press, and then the work began.

Great indeed was the amazement and delight of the Indians.  The fact that the bark could "talk"
was to them most wonderful.  Portions of the Gospels were first printed, and then some of the
beautiful hymns.  The story of this invention reached the Wesleyan Home Society.  Generous
help was afforded.  A good supply of these types was cast in London, and, with a good press
and all the essential requisites, including a large quantity of paper, was sent out to that
Mission, and for years it was the great point from which considerable portions of the Word
of God were scattered among the wandering tribes, conferring unnumbered blessings upon them.
In later years the noble British and Foreign Bible Society has taken charge of the work; and
now, thanks to their generosity, the Indians have the blessed Word scattered among them, and
thousands can read its glorious truths.

All the Churches having Missions in that great land have availed themselves, more or less,
of Mr Evans' invention.  To suit other tribes speaking different languages, the characters
have been modified or have had additions to them, to correspond with sounds in those languages
which were not in the Cree.  Even in Greenland the Moravian Missionaries are now using Evans'
Syllabic Characters with great success among the Esquimaux.

When Lord Dufferin was Governor-General of the Dominion of Canada, hearing that a couple of
Missionaries from the Indian tribes were in Ottawa, where he resided, he sent a courteous request
for us to call upon him.  With two or three friends, Mr Crosby, our successful and energetic
Missionary from British Columbia, and I, obeyed the summons.

The interview was a very pleasant and profitable one.  Lord Dufferin questioned Mr Crosby about
British Columbia and his work, and was pleased to hear of his great success.  After a bright
and earnest conversation with me in reference to the Indians of the North-West Territories,
in which his Excellency expressed his solicitude for the welfare and happiness of the aboriginal
tribes of red men, he made some inquiries in reference to missionary work among them, and seemed
much pleased with the answers I was able to give.  Then he added, "I profess to be a kind of
a literary man myself, and try to keep posted up in my reading of what is going on, but I never
heard of this before.

Then again he asked, "Who did you say was the author or inventor of these characters?"

"The Reverend James Evans," I replied.

"Well, why is it I never heard of him before, I wonder?"

Mr Evans was ever anxious that the Indian converts should at once be made to understand all
the duties and responsibilities of the new life on which they were entering, he was a fearless
man, and boldly declared unto them the whole counsel of God.  Knowing the blighting, destroying
influences of the "fire water" upon the poor Indian race, he made the Church a total abstinence
society, and, as all missionaries should, he set them the example of his own life.  Then, as
regards the keeping of the Sabbath, he took his stand on the Word of God, and preached the
absolute necessity of the one day's rest in seven.  In after years we saw the good results
of the scriptural lessons which he and his worthy successors taught in reference to the holy day.

Many and severe were the trials, and mysterious some of the persecutions, which this glorious
man had to bear.  Because of his unswerving loyalty to truth, and his conscientious and fearless
teaching of all the commandments of God's Word, some in high authority, who at first were supposed
to be friendly, turned against him, and became his unprincipled foes.  The trouble first seemed
to begin when Mr Evans taught the Indians to "Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy."  At
his request, they, when hunting or fishing or tripping in the months of open water, rested
on the Lord's day.  Short-sighted employers, unconscious of the fact, so often demonstrated,
that they who rest the one day in seven can do more work in the other six, opposed this teaching,
and, when they could not stop it, assailed the Missionary in a way that must have caused a
jubilee in hell.  I shall not go into particulars.  Most of the principal actors are in the
presence of the Judge of all the earth.  He Who suffered for a time the name of this devoted
servant of His to be so shamefully clouded has cleared all the mists away; and like the silver
refined by the furnace, so has it been in this case.

But persecutions, and even these bitter assaults upon his character, could not turn him from
the most intense activity in his blessed life- work.  Like an Apostle Paul in primitive times,
or like a Coke or Asbury in the early years of this century, so travelled James Evans.  When
we say he travelled thousands of miles each year on his almost semi- continental journeys,
we must remember that these were not performed by coach or railroad, or even with horse and
carriage, or in the saddle or sailing vessel, but by canoe and dog-train.  How much of hardship
and suffering that means, we are thankful but few of our readers will ever know.  There are
a few of us who do know something of these things, and this fellowship of his suffering knits
our hearts in loving memory to him who excelled us all, and the fragrance of whose name and
unselfish devotion to his work met us almost everywhere, although years had passed away since
James Evans had entered into his rest.  "He being dead yet speaketh."  To write about him and
his work is a labour of love.  Would that the pen of some ready writer might give us a biography
of this Missionary of such versatility of gifts, and such marvellous success in his work!

Room only have I here, in addition to what has already been written, to give some account of
the sad event of his life, the accidental shooting of his interpreter, Joseph Hasselton, and
the after consequences.

Word reached Mr Evans one year, that the priests were endeavouring to crowd up into the Athabasca
and Mackenzie River country, and get a foothold among some very interesting Indians whom Mr
Evans had visited and found very anxious for the truth.  Desirous that they should not be led
away from the simplicity of the Gospel, he felt that the best plan was for him to hurry up
by light canoe and get into that country and among his Indians before the priests arrived.
They had gone the usual route up the Saskatchewan, and from thence were to go over the height
of land, and then by boat down the streams which from those regions run towards the Arctic Ocean.

Mr Evans' plan was to take what is called "the back route," that was, to go partly down the
Nelson River, and then, turning westward through an almost endless succession of lakes and
rivers and portages, arrive before the other parties, although several weeks of severest toil
would be passed in making the long journey.  With his beloved interpreter, who was one of the
most remarkable Indians of his day, a man who could talk almost every Indian language spoken
by the natives of the land, and, what was better, a devoted Christian, full of zeal and enthusiasm
for the work, and with another reliable native from whom I received my information as to what
occurred, the long journey was commenced.  For several days they made good progress, and were
rejoicing at the prospect of success.  One morning, very early, while they were paddling along
in the great Nelson River, Hasselton, the interpreter, who was in the front of the canoe, said,
"I see some ducks in those reeds near the shore. Hand me the gun."  In these small canoes the
guns are generally kept in the stern with the muzzles pointing back, so as to prevent accidents.
The man who was in the stern quickly picked up the gun, and foolishly drew back the trigger.
With the muzzle pointing forward he passed the gun to Mr Evans, who did not turn his head,
as he was earnestly looking if he also could see the ducks.  As Mr Evans took the gun passed
to him he unfortunately let the trigger, which had no guard around it, strike against the thaft
of the canoe.  Instantly it went off, and the contents were discharged into the head of the
poor man in front.  He turned his dying eyes upon Mr Evans, and then fell over, a corpse. 
It was an awful accident, and doubly painful on account of the unfortunate surroundings.  Here
the two survivors were, about two hundred miles from any habitation.  They could not take the
body back with them.  For days they would meet none to whom they could tell their story.  They
went ashore, and, when their first paroxysm of grief was over, they had to dig, as best they
could, a grave in the wilderness, and there bury their dead.

They turned their faces homeward, and very sorrowful indeed was the journey.  Great was the
grief at the village, and greater still the consternation when it was discovered what Mr Evans
had resolved to do. His interpreter was the only Christian among his relatives.  The rest of
them were wild pagans with bad records.  Life for life was their motto, and many had been their
deeds of cruelty and bloodshed in seeking that revenge which occupies so large a place in the
savage Indian's heart. They lived several hundred miles away, and Mr Evans resolved to go and
surrender himself to them, tell them what he had done, and take all the consequences.  Many
friends, knowing how quick the Indian is to act when aroused by the news of the death of a
relative--for often before he hears all the circumstances does he strike the fatal blow--urged
him not to go himself, but to send a mediator.

To this suggestion he turned a deaf ear, and, having made his will and left all instructions
as to the work if he should never return, and bidden farewell to his stricken family, who never
expected to see him alive again, he started off on his strange and perilous journey.

Reaching the distant village, he walked into the tent of the parents of his interpreter, and
told them that his heart was broken, and why. Angry words were uttered, and tomahawks and guns
were freely handled, while he described the tragic scene.  Feeling so utterly miserable that
he little cared whether they killed him or let him live, there he sat down on the ground in
their midst, and awaited their decision.  Some of the hot-headed spirits were for killing him
at once; but wiser counsels prevailed, and it was decided that he must be adopted into the
family from which he had shot the son, and be all to them, as far as possible, that their son
had been.  This had been a good deal.  Becoming a Christian had made him kind and loving, and
so all that he could spare of his wages, earned while interpreting for Mr Evans, had been faithfully
sent to his parents.  The ceremony of adoption lasted several days.  Mr Evans assumed as his
Indian name that of this family, and a good son indeed they found in him.

When he left to return to his Mission they kissed him, and acted towards him with as much affection
as such people can show.  Many were the gifts which were sent them by their adopted son, who
took good care of them as long as he lived.

But while this difficulty was thus tided over, the memory of it never faded away from Mr Evans.
He was never the same man after.  Yet he did not allow it to deter him from the most vigorous
prosecution of his work: indeed, it seemed to his people as though he tried to bury his sorrow
in incessant toil, and labours so abundant, that but few even of the Indians "in journeyings
oft" could equal him.

To aid the further prosecution of his labours, and to excite greater interest in the well-being
of the Red Indians of British North America, Mr Evans went to England to speak about his work
and its needs.  His story of marvellous incidents and varied experiences in this land of which
so little was known, produced a deep impression, and great crowds came out to hear him, and
insisted on his continuing at great length his wonderful descriptions of travelling by canoe
and dog-train, and the longing desire there was in the hearts of the Indians for the Gospel.

On November 23rd, 1846, after having spoken at Keelby in Lincolnshire, he returned with his
wife, who was in every respect a devoted helpmate for such a work, to the home of the gentleman
and lady with whom they were stopping.  While chatting on various subjects, Mrs Evans turned
to her husband, who was comfortably seated in a large arm-chair, and said, "My dear, I have
had such a strange presentiment--that we shall never see Norway House and our faithful Indians
again."  He turned to her and said, with something of his old enthusiasm, "Why should that
thought trouble you, my dear?  Heaven is just as near from England as from America."

The two ladies said, "Good night!" and retired, leaving Mr Evans and the gentleman of the house
to chat together a little longer.  Shortly after, the gentleman said something to Mr Evans,
and, receiving no answer, he turned from the fire and looked at him.  At first he thought he
had fallen asleep, but this was only for an instant.  Springing up and going to him, he found
that the immortal spirit had so quietly and gently flitted away, that there had not been the
slightest sob or cry. The noble Indian Missionary was dead.  The eloquent tongue was hushed
for ever.  For his return hundreds of anxious weeping Indians in those northern wilds would
long and wait, but wait in vain.  He had been conveyed by angel bands to that innumerable company
of redeemed, blood- washed saints around the throne of God, which even then had received many
happy converted Indians, who, brought to God by his instrumentality, had finished their course
with joy, and before him had entered in through the gates into the city, and were there to
welcome him.

Hundreds, since then, of his spiritual children have had the "abundant entrance ministered
unto" them, and they have joined him in that rapidly increasing throng.  And although many
years have passed away since he preached to them his last sermon, at many a camp-fire, and
in many a wigwam, still linger old men, and women too, whose eyes glisten, and then become
bedimmed with tears, as they think of him who so long ago went on before.  But while they weep,
they also rejoice that that salvation, which, as the result of his preaching, they accepted,
is still their solace and their joy, and, clinging to it and its great Author, they shall by-and-by
meet their Missionary and loved ones who have finished their course and gained the eternal shores.

On the previous page are the Syllabic Characters, as invented by Mr Evans; and on this we give
the Lord's Prayer in Cree, as printed in them.

Perhaps the following explanations will help the student who may have a wish to master this
wonderful invention.

In the Alphabet the first line of characters, the equilateral triangle in four positions, reads
as follows, a e oo ah.

The addition of the little dot, as seen in the second line, adds to any character after which
it is placed the sound of w.  So this second line reads wa, we, woo, wah.

The following lines read thus: pa pe poo pah; ta te too tah; ka ke koo kah; cha che choo chah;
ma mee moo mah; na ne noo nah; sa se soo sah; ya ye yoo yah.

With a little patience the Lord's Prayer can be read even without a teacher.

I have gone to a pagan band far away in the northern wilderness, and after they have become
willing to receive the truth, I have commenced to teach them to read the Word of God.  Very
limited indeed were our appliances, for we were hundreds of miles from the nearest school house.
But from the camp-fire, where we had cooked our bear's meat or beaver, I would take a burnt
stick, and with it make these Syllabic Characters on the side of a rock, and then patiently
repeat them over and over again with my school of often three generations of Indians together,
until they had some idea of them.  Then I would give them the copies of the Bible I had brought,
and at the first verse of Genesis we would begin.  It paid for the hardships of the trip a
thousandfold to see the looks of joy and delight on their faces as they themselves were able
to read that wonderful verse.

By Canoe and Dog-Train--by Egerton Ryerson Young

CHAPTER ELEVEN.

SOWING AND REAPING--BEAUTIFUL INCIDENT--"HELP ME TO BE A CHRISTIAN!"-- THIRTY YEARS BETWEEN
THE SOWING AND THE REAPING--SORROWING, YET STUBBORN, INDIANS INDUCED TO YIELD BY THE EXPRESSION,
"I KNOW WHERE YOUR CHILDREN ARE!"

While in our every-day missionary life there were dark hours, and times when our faith was
severely tried, there was, on the other hand, much to encourage us to persevere in the blessed
work among these Cree Indians.

An incident that occurred to us brought up very forcibly to our minds the couplet:

  "Whate'er may die and be forgot,
  Work done for God, it dieth not."

I was sitting, one pleasant day in June, in my study at Norway House, absorbed in my work,
when I was startled by a loud "Ahem!" behind me.  I quickly sprang up, and, turning round,
discovered that the man who had thus suddenly interrupted me in my thoughts was a big, stalwart
Indian. He had come into the room in that catlike way in which nearly all of the Indians move.
Their moccasined feet make no sound, and so it is quite possible for even scores of them to
come into the house unheard.  Then, as Indians have a great dislike to knocking, they generally
omit it altogether, and unceremoniously enter, as this man had done, and as quietly as possible.

My first glance at him told me that he was an entire stranger, although I had by this time
become acquainted with some hundreds of the natives. I shook hands with him and said a few
commonplace things to him, to which I thought he paid but little heed.

I pointed to a chair, and asked him to be seated; but, instead of doing so, he came up close
to me and said with great earnestness: "Missionary, will you help me to be a Christian?"

Surprised and pleased by this abrupt question, I replied, "Certainly I will; that is my business
here."

"Will you help my wife and children also to become Christians?" he added with equal emphasis.

"Of course I will," I answered again.  "It was for just such work as that my good wife and
I came from our far-away home to live in this land."

Naturally I had already become very much interested in this big, bronzed Indian; and so I said
to him, "Tell me who you are, and from what place you have come."

I made him sit down before me, and he told me the following remarkable story.  I wish I could
put into the narrative his pathos and his dramatic action.  He did not keep his seat very long
after he began talking, but moved around, and at times was very much excited.  He said,--

"Many years ago, when I was a little boy, I was kindly cared for by the first Missionary, Mr
Evans.  I was a poor orphan.  My father and mother had died, leaving none to care for me; so
the good Missionary took me to his own house and was very kind to me.  'Tis true I had some
relatives, but they were not Christians and so there was not much love in their hearts towards
a poor orphan boy.  So Mr Evans took me to his house, and was very kind to me.  He gave me
clothes and food, and a home.  He taught me to read the new letters he had made for our people,
and told me much about the Great Spirit and His Son Jesus.  He taught me and other children
to pray to God, and he often talked to us about Him, and how kind and good He was.  He kept
me with him two or three years, and I was very well off indeed in having such a home and such
a friend, if I had only known it.

"One summer, among the many Indians who came to trade their furs at the Company's store, was
one family who lived very far away.  They seemed to take a liking to me, and often would talk
to me.  They had no little boy, they said, in their wigwam, and they told me a lot of foolish
stuff about how much happier I would be, if I lived with them, than I was here, where I had
to obey the white man.  Like the foolish child that I was, I listened to this nonsense, and
one night, when they had got everything ready to start, I slipped quietly out of the house
and joined them.  We paddled hard most of the night, for we felt that we had done wrong, and
did not know but we should be followed.

"After travelling many days we reached their hunting grounds and wigwams.  I did not find it
as pleasant as they had told me it would be. Often they were very cruel to me, and sometimes
we did not have much to eat.  But I dared not run away, for there was no place to which I could
go, except to other wicked Indians; and they would only make things worse.  They were all very
bad Indians, and very much afraid of the medicine men.  All the worship they did was to the
bad spirit.  They were afraid of him, and so they worshipped him, so that he might not do them
much harm.  I became as bad as any of them.  I tried to forget all that the good Missionary
had told me.  I tried to wipe all his teachings and prayers from my memory.  All he had told
me about the Good Spirit and His Son I tried to forget.

"I grew up to be a man.  I had become a wicked pagan; but I was a good hunter, and one of the
men sold me one of his daughters to be my wife. We have quite a family.  Because I had seen,
when I was a little boy, how Christian Indian men treat the women better than the pagan Indians
treat theirs, I treated my wife and children well.  I was never cruel to them.  I love my wife
and children.

"Last winter, you remember, the snow was very deep.  I had taken my family and gone out into
the region of deer and other animals, and there had made my hunting lodge for the winter. 
There we set our traps for the fur-bearing animals.  We took a good many of the smaller animals
that have got furs, but the larger ones, that are good for food, were very few.  We had a hard
time, as food was very scarce.  I could not find any deer to shoot, and we had come far from
the great lakes and rivers, and so had no fish.

"At length it seemed as though we must starve.  I tried hard to get something, but I seemed
to fail every time.  Sometimes, when I did manage to get within range of the moose or reindeer,
and I fired, my gun, which is only a flintlock, would only flash the powder in the pan, and
so the charge would not go off.  The noise, however, had so frightened the deer that he had
rushed away before I could get ready to fire again.

"At length it got so bad with us that I became completely discouraged, and I said, `I will
only try once more; and if I do not succeed in shooting a deer, I will shoot myself.'  So I
took up my gun and hurried into the forest away from my half-starved family.  I cautiously
tramped along on my snowshoes all the first day, and did not see even a track. I made a little
camp and lay down cold and hungry.  I hunted all the next day and only got a rabbit.  This
I ate in the little camp I made the second night in the snow.  On the third day I hunted until
about noon.  Then feeling very weak and hungry, I got so discouraged that I said, as I sat
down on a log covered with snow, `I will die here.  I am weak with hunger, I can go no further.'
I was cross and angry, and I said, as I talked to myself, `No use trying any more.'  Then I
loaded my gun with a heavy charge of powder and two bullets, and, drawing back the trigger,
my plan was to put the muzzle of the gun against the side of my head, and then press on the
trigger with my big toe, which, you know, moves easily in the moccasin.  Just as I was getting
ready thus to kill myself, something seemed to speak to me, `William!'  I pushed the gun away,
for I was frightened.  I looked all around, but could not see anybody.  Then I found that the
voice was in me, and it began to talk to me out of my heart; and as I listened it seemed to
say, `William, do you not remember what the Missionary told you long ago about the Great Spirit?
He said He was kind and forgiving, and that even if we did wander far away from him, if we
became sorry and would come back, He would forgive.  Do you not remember, William, he said
that if we ever got into great trouble, the Great Spirit was the best Friend to Whom to go
to help us out?  You are in great trouble, William.  Don't you think you had better come back
to him?'

"But I trembled and hesitated, for I was ashamed to come.  I thought over my life, how I had
run away from the kind Missionary who had taken me, a poor orphan boy, into his home, and fed
and clothed me, and taught me so much about the true way.  Then I remembered so well how I
had tried to wipe out from my memory all I had learned about the Great Spirit and His Son,
and the good Book.  I had denied to the pagan people that I knew anything about the white man's
religion.  I had been very bad, and had got very far away; how could I come back?  Still all
the answer I got was, `You had better come back.'

"There I sat and trembled, and I felt I was too mean to come back.  But all the answer I got
was, `It is meaner to stay away, if what the Missionary said is true.'  While I was hesitating
what to do, and all trembling in the cold, I seemed to hear my wife and children in the wigwam
far away crying for food.  This decided me.  So I turned round, and kneeled down in the snow
by the log, and began to pray.  I hardly know what I said, but I do remember I asked the Great
Spirit to forgive the poor Indian who had got so far away from Him, and had been so wicked,
and had tried to wipe Him out of his memory.  I told him I was sorry, and wanted to do better;
and there in the snow I promised, if He would forgive and help me in my trouble, and give something
for my wife and children to eat, I would, just as soon as the snow and ice left the rivers
and lakes, go and find the Missionary, and ask him to help me to be a Christian.

"While I prayed I felt better; I seemed to feel in my heart that help was coming.  I got up
from my knees, and it seemed as though that prayer had strengthened me like food.  I forgot
I was cold and hungry.  I took up my gun with a glad heart, and away I started; and I had not
gone far before a large reindeer came dashing along.  I fired and killed him.  I was very glad.
I quickly skinned him, and I soon made a fire and cooked some of the meat.  Then I pulled down
a small tree, and fastened part of the meat into the top of it, and let it swing up again,
so as to keep it from the wolves and wolverines.  Then I took the rest on my back and hurried
home to my hungry wife and children.  Soon after I went back for the rest of the venison, and
found it all right.

"Since that hour we have always had something.  I have hunted hard, and have had success. 
None of us have been hungry since.  The Great Spirit has been all that the Missionary said
He would be to us.  He has cared for us, and given us all that we have needed.

"I have not forgotten my promise made while kneeling in the snow beside the log in the woods.
The snow has gone, and the ice has left the lakes and rivers.  I have launched my canoe, and
have come with my wife and children to ask you to help us to be Christians."

We were very much pleased to hear such a wonderful experience, which was thus leading him back
to God; and we told him so.  When we learned that all this time he had been talking, his wife
and children were patiently sitting in the canoe outside at the shore, we hurried out with
him and brought them into the Mission House.

Mrs Young, and one or two others, attracted by William's earnest words, had come into my study,
and had heard most of his story, and of course were also deeply interested.  Out of our scant
supplies we gave the whole family a good hearty meal, and we both did what we could by words
and actions to make them feel that we were their friends, and would do all we could to help
them to be Christians.  We were delighted to find that since that memorable day when at the
snow-covered log in the forest William had bowed in prayer, he had been diligent in teaching
his family all that he could remember of the blessed truths of the Gospel.  They had gladly
received it and were eager for more.

I called together some of the head men of the village, and told them the story of this family,
and what William had said about his early life.  A few of the older people remembered the circumstance
of his adoption by Mr Evans after the death of his parents, whom they remembered well. Happy
Christians themselves, and anxious that others should enjoy the same blessedness, they rejoiced
at William's return, and especially with such a desire in his heart.  So they at once gave
the exile a place among themselves, and some needed help.  Thorough and genuine were the changes
wrought in the hearts of that family by Divine grace, and they have remained firm and true.
In their house was a family altar, and from the church services they were never absent, unless
far off in distant hunting grounds.

Various were the arguments which the Good Spirit gave us to use in persuading men and women
to be reconciled to God.  Here is a beautiful illustration:--

"WHERE ARE OUR CHILDREN?"

On the banks of a wild river, about sixty miles from Beaver Lake, I visited a band of pagan
Indians, who seemed determined to resist every appeal or entreaty I could make to induce them
to listen to my words. They were so dead and indifferent that I was for a time quite disheartened.
The journey to reach them had taken about eight days from home through the dreary wilderness,
where we had not met a single human being.  My two faithful canoemen and I had suffered much
from the character of the route, and the absence of game, which had caused us more than once
to wrap ourselves up in our blankets and lie down supperless upon the granite rocks, and try
to sleep.  The rain had fallen upon us so persistently that for days the water had been dripping
from us, and we had longed for the sunshine that we might get dry again.

We had met with some strange adventures, and I had had another opportunity for observing the
intelligence and shrewdness of my men, and their quickness in arriving at right conclusions
from very little data. Many think of the Indians as savages and uncivilised, yet in some respects
they are highly educated, and are gifted with a quickness of perception not excelled by any
other people in the world.  We had the following illustration of it on this trip.

As most of the Indians had gone away in the brigades to York Factory, to carry down the furs
and to freight up the goods for the next winter's trade, I could not find any canoemen who
were acquainted with the route to the pagan band which I wished to visit.  The best I could
do was to secure the services of a man as a guide who had only been as far as Beaver Lake.
He was willing to go and run the risk of finding the Indian band, if possible, although so
far beyond the most northern point he had ever gone before.  As I could do no better I hired
him and another Indian, and away we went.

After several days of hard work--for the portages around the falls and rapids were many, and
several times we had to wade through muskegs or morasses up to our knees for miles together,
carrying all our load on our heads or backs--we at length reached Beaver Lake.  Here we camped
for the night and talked over our future movements.  We had come two hundred and forty miles
through these northern wilds, and yet had about sixty miles to go ere we expected to see human
beings, and were all absolutely ignorant of the direction in which to go.

We spent the night on the shore of the lake, and slept comfortably on the smooth rocks.  Early
the next morning we began to look out for signs to guide us on our way.  There were several
high hills in the vicinity, and it was decided that we should each ascend one of these, and
see if from these elevated positions the curling smoke from some distant Indian camp-fire,
or other signs of human beings, could be observed.

Seizing my rifle, I started off to ascend the high hill which had been assigned me, while my
Indians went off in other directions.  This hill was perhaps half a mile from our camp-fire,
and I was soon at its foot, ready to push my way up through the tangled underbrush that grew
so densely on its sides.  To my surprise I came almost suddenly upon a creek of rare crystal
beauty, on the banks of which were many impressions of hoofs, large and small, as though a
herd of cattle had there been drinking.  Thoughtlessly, for I seemed to have forgotten where
we were, I came to the conclusion that as the herd of cattle had there quenched their thirst,
they and their owner must be near.  So I hurried back to the camp, and signalled to the men
to return, and told them what I had seen.  There was an amused look on their faces, but they
were very polite and courteous men, and so they accompanied me to the creek, where, with a
good deal of pride, I pointed out to them the footprints of cattle, and stated that I thought
that they and their owners could not be far off.  They listened to me patiently, and then made
me feel extremely foolish by uttering the word "Moose."  I had mistaken the footprints of a
herd of moose for a drove of cattle, much to their quiet amusement.

We looked around for a time, and, getting no clue, we embarked in our canoe, and started to
explore the different streams that flowed into or out of this picturesque lake.  After several
hours of unsuccessful work we entered into the mouth of quite a fine river, and began paddling
up it, keeping close to one of its sandy shores.  Suddenly one of my Indians sprang up in the
canoe, and began carefully examining some small tracks on the shore.  A few hasty words were
uttered by the men, and then we landed.

They closely inspected these little footprints, and then exclaimed, "We have got it now, Missionary;
we can take you soon to the Indians!"

"What have you discovered?"  I said.  "I see nothing to tell me where the Indians are."

"We see it very plain," was the reply.  "You sent word that you were coming to meet them this
moon.  They have been scattered hunting, but are gathering at the place appointed, and a canoe
of them went up this river yesterday, and the dog ran along the shore, and these are his tracks."

I examined these impressions in the sand, and said, "The country is full of wild animals; these
may be the tracks of a wolf or wolverine or some other beast."

They only laughed at me, and said, "We can see a great difference between these tracks and
those made by the wild animals."

Our canoe was soon afloat again, and, using our paddles vigorously, we sped rapidly along the
river.  With no other clue than those little footprints in the sand my men confidently pushed
along.  After paddling for about twenty miles we came to the camp-fire, still smouldering,
where the Indians had slept the night before.  Here we cooked our dinner, and then hurried
on, still guided by the little tracks along the shore.  Towards evening we reached the encampment,
just as my canoemen had intimated we should.

The welcome we received was not very cordial.  The Indians were soured and saddened by having
lost many of their number, principally children, by scarlet fever, which for the first time
had visited their country, and which had been undoubtedly brought into their land by some free-
traders the year before.  With the exception of an old conjurer or two, none openly opposed
me, but the sullen apathy of the people made it very discouraging work to try to preach or
teach.  However, we did the best we could, and were resolved that, having come so far, and
suffered so many hardships to reach them, we would faithfully deliver the message, and leave
the results to Him Who had permitted us to be the first who had ever visited that Land to tell
the story of redeeming love.

One cold, rainy day a large number of us were crowded into the largest wigwam for a talk about
the truths in the great Book.  My two faithful Christian companions aided me all they could
by giving personal testimony to the blessedness of this great salvation.  But all seemed in
vain.  There the people sat and smoked in sullen indifference.  When questioned as to their
wishes and determinations, all I could get from them was, "As our fathers lived and died, so
will we."

Tired out and sad of heart, I sat down in quiet communion with the Blessed Spirit, and breathed
up a prayer for guidance and help in this hour of sore perplexity.  In my extremity the needed
assistance came so consciously that I almost exulted in the assurance of coming victory. Springing
up, I shouted out, "I know where all your children are, who are not among the living!  I know,
yes, I do know most certainly where all the children are, whom Death has taken in his cold
grasp from among us, the children of the good and of the bad, of the whites and of the Indians,
I know where all the children are."

Great indeed was the excitement among them.  Some of them had had their faces well shrouded
in their blankets as they sat like upright mummies in the crowded wigwam.  But when I uttered
these words, they quickly uncovered their faces, and manifested the most intense interest.
Seeing that I had at length got their attention, I went on with my words: "Yes, I know where
all the children are.  They have gone from your camp-fires and wigwams.  The hammocks are empty,
and the little bows and arrows lie idle.  Many of your hearts are sad, as you mourn for those
little ones whose voices you hear not, and who come not at your call.  I am so glad that the
Great Spirit gives me authority to tell you that you may meet your children again, and be happy
with them for ever.  But you must listen to His words, which I bring to you from His great
Book, and give Him your hearts, and love and serve Him.  There is only one way to that beautiful
land, where Jesus, the Son of the Great Spirit, has gone, and into which He takes all the children
who have died; and now that you have heard His message and seen His Book, you too must come
this way, if you would be happy and there enter in."

While I was thus speaking, a big, stalwart man from the other side of the tent sprang up, and
rushed towards me.  Beating on his breast, he said, "Missionary, my heart is empty, and I mourn
much, for none of my children are left among the living; very lonely is my wigwam.  I long
to see my children again, and to clasp them in my arms.  Tell me, Missionary, what must I do
to please the Great Spirit, that I may get to that beautiful land, that I may meet my children
again?"  Then he sank at my feet upon the ground, his eyes suffused with tears, and was quickly
joined by others, who, like him, were broken down with grief, and were anxious now for religious
instruction.

To the blessed Book we went, and after reading what Jesus had said about little children, and
giving them some glimpses of His great love for them, we told them "the old, old story," as
simply and lovingly as we could.  There was no more scoffing or indifference.  Every word was
heard and pondered over, and from that hour a blessed work began, which resulted in the great
majority of them deciding to give their hearts to God; and they have been true to their vows.

CHAPTER TWELVE.

ON THE TRAIL TO SANDY BAR--SLEEPING ON THE ICE--THIEVISH ESQUIMAUX DOGS--NARROW ESCAPE OF JACK--JOYOUS
WELCOME--SOCIETY FORMED--BENJAMIN CAMERON, ONCE A CANNIBAL, NOW A LAY HELPER--PLUM-PUDDING--A
STRIKING INSTANCE OF HONESTY.

In December, 1877, I made a journey to the Indians living at Sandy Bar. As there were some
experiences quite different from those of other trips, they shall here be recorded.

Sandy Bar, or White Mud, as some call it, is over a hundred miles south of Beren's River, where
we then resided.  We made the usual preparations for our journey, getting sleds loaded with
supplies for ourselves and fish for our dogs, with all the cooking arrangements necessary for
a month's absence from home.

As the people among whom we were going were poor, we ever felt that, Paul-like, for the furtherance
of the Gospel, the wisest course among those bands who had not fully accepted salvation was
to keep ourselves as far as possible from being burdensome unto them.  So my good wife cooked
a generous supply of meat and buns, made as rich with fat as possible.  Fortunate indeed were
we in having supplies sufficient for this to be done.  It was not always so.  At this very
Mission, all we had one morning for breakfast was a hind-quarter of a wild cat!

All our preparations were completed, and we were ready to start at one o'clock in the morning.
To our great regret a fierce storm arose, and so we were obliged to wait until the day dawned,
ere we could harness our dogs and venture out.  When we had gone about twenty miles, the storm
swept with such power over the great Lake Winnipeg, driving the recently fallen snow before
it, with such a stinging, blinding effect, that we were forced to give up the struggle, and
run into the forest and camp.

We cleared away the snow from a space about eight feet square.  At one side of this we built
up our fire, and over the rest of the cleared space we spread some evergreen boughs, on which
we placed our beds.  We unharnessed our dogs, and thawed out for them some frozen fish.  As
this was one of my short trips, I had with me but two dog-trains and two good Indians.  We
melted snow in our kettles, and made tea, and cooked some meat.  This, with the bread, of which
we were on this trip the happy possessors, constituted our meals.  About sundown we had prayers,
and then, as we had been up most of the previous night, we wrapped ourselves in our robes and
blankets, and went to sleep to the lullaby of the howling tempest.

About ten o'clock that night I woke up, and, uncovering my head, found that the storm had ceased.
I sprang up and kindled the fire, but my fingers ached and my body shivered ere I succeeded
in getting it to blaze brightly.  I filled the tea-kettle with snow, and while it was melting
I called up my two travelling companions, and also a couple of young natives, who, with their
dog-trains, had joined us.  The Indians can tell with marvellous accuracy the hour of the night
by the position of the Great Bear in the heavens.  This is their night clock.  I saw by their
puzzled looks, as they gazed at the stars, that they wanted to tell me I had made a great mistake,
if I thought it was near morning. But I did not give them the opportunity, and only hurried
up the breakfast.  After prayers we harnessed our dogs, tied up our loads of bedding, food,
kettles, and other things; and then, throwing the boughs on which we had slept on the fire,
by the light which it afforded us, we wended our way out through the forest gloom to the frozen
lake.

Taking the lead with my own splendid dogs, we travelled at such a rate that, ere the sun rose
up to cheer us, over forty miles of Winnipeg's icy expanse lay between us and the snowy bed
where we had sought shelter and slept during the raging storm.  After stopping at Dog's Head,
where were a few Indians, under the eccentric chief, Thickfoot, onward we travelled, crossing
the lake to what is called Bull's Head, where we camped for the night.  The face of the cliff
is here so steep that we could not get our heavy loads up into the forest above, so we were
obliged to make our fire and bed in the snowdrift at the base of the cliff.  It was a poor
place indeed.  The snow, from the constant drifting in from the lake, was very deep.  There
was no shelter or screen from the fierce cold wind, which, changing during the night, blew
upon us.  We tried to build up the fire, but, owing to our peculiar position, could not change
it.  In the woods, at our camps, we build the fire where the smoke will be driven from us.
If the wind changes, we change our fires.  Here at the base of this cliff we could do nothing
of the kind; the result was, we were either shivering in the bitter cold, or blinded by the smoke.

While in this uncomfortable plight, and trying to arrange our camp beds on the snow, for we
could not get any balsam boughs here to put under us, we were joined by several wild Indians,
who, coming down the lake, saw our camp-fire.  They had a number of thin, wild, wolfish, half-
starved Esquimaux dogs with them.  They made a great fuss over me, which here meant so much
tea and food.  I treated them kindly, and, fearing for our supplies, and even our dog harness,
and the other things for which the terrible Esquimaux dog has such an appetite, I politely
informed them that I thought they would be more comfortable if they travelled on a little further.
This hint was met with loud protestations that they could not, under any circumstances, think
of denying themselves the pleasure of at least stopping one night in the camp of the Missionary,
about whom they had heard so much as the great friend of the Indian.

Of course I could not go back on my record, or resist such diplomacy; but I saw trouble ahead,
and I was not disappointed.  In order to save something, I gave to their wolfish dogs all the
fish I had, which was sufficient for my eight for several days.  These the Esquimaux speedily
devoured.  I made the men bring the dog harness into the camp, and with the sleds, to save
the straps and lashings, they built a little barricade against the wind.

In addition to the food supplies for the trip, I had a bag of meat, and another of buns, for
my use when I should reach the village, where I was going to preach and to teach.  I gathered
a pile of clubs, which I cut from the driftwood on the shore, from which we had also obtained
that for our fire.  Then, putting the bag of meat, which was frozen hard, under my pillow,
and giving the bag of buns to one of my Indians, with orders to guard it carefully, I lay down
and tried to go to sleep.  Vain effort indeed was it for a long time.  No sooner were we down
than in upon us swarmed the dogs.  They fought for the honour of cleaning, in dog fashion,
our meat kettle, and then began seeking for something more. Over us they walked, and soon,
by their gathering around my head, I knew they had scented the meat.  Up I sprang, and, vigorously
using my clubs, a number of which I sent among them, I soon drove them out into the darkness
of the lake.  Then under my robes again I got, but not to sleep.  In less than ten minutes
there was an encore, which was repeated several times.  At length my supply of clubs gave out.
My only consolation was that the dogs had received so many of them that they acted as though
they were ready to cry quits and behave themselves.  As it looked as though they were settling
down to rest, I gladly did the same.  Vain hope, indeed!  I went to sleep very quickly, for
I was very weary, but I woke up in the morning to find that there was not an ounce of meat
left in the bag under my head, nor a single bun left in the bag which the Indian had orders
so carefully to guard.

Our condition the next morning was not a very pleasant one.  The outlook was somewhat gloomy.
Our camp was in an exposed snow-drift.  We had no roof over us.  The fire was a poor one, as
the drift-wood with which it was made was wretched stuff, giving out more smoke than heat,
which, persisting in going the wrong way, often filled our eyes with blinding tears.  Our generous
supply of meat, that we so much require in this cold climate, and our rich buns, so highly
prized, were devoured by the dogs which, with the most innocent looks imaginable, sat around
us in the snow and watched our movements.  Fortunately one of the Indians had put a few plain
biscuits in a small bag, which he was taking, as a great gift, to a friend.  These were brought
out, and with our tea and sugar were all we had, or could get, until we were sixty miles further
south. No time for grumbling, so we prepared ourselves for the race against the march of hunger,
which we well knew, by some bitter experiences, would, after a few hours, rapidly gain upon us.

After the light breakfast we knelt down in the snow and said our prayers, and then hurried
off.  My gallant dogs responded to my call upon them so nobly that ere that short wintry day
in December had fled away, and the lake was shrouded in darkness, the flying sparks from the
tops of the little cabins of the friendly Indians told us we had conquered in the race, although
not without some narrow escapes and scars.

While crossing a long traverse of at least twenty-five miles, my largest dog, Jack, went through
a crack in the ice up to his collar.  These ice cracks are dangerous things.  The ice, which
may be several feet thick, often bursts open with a loud report, making a fissure which may
be from a few inches to several feet wide.  Up this fissure the water rushes until it is level
with the top.  Of course, as the cold is so intense, it soon freezes over, but it is very dangerous
for travellers to come along soon after the fissure has been made.  I have seen the guide get
in more than once, and have had some very narrow escapes myself.  On this occasion I was riding
on the sled; the two foremost dogs of the train got across the thinly frozen ice all right,
but Jack, who was third, broke though into the cold water below.  The head dogs kept pulling
ahead, and the sled dog did his work admirably, and so we saved the noble St. Bernard from
drowning, and soon got him out.  The cold was so intense that in a few minutes his glossy black
coat was covered with a coat of icy mail.  He seemed to know the danger he was in; and so,
the instant I got the sled across the ice crack, he started off direct for the distant forest
at such a rate that he seemed to drag the other dogs as well as myself most of the time.  We
were about twelve miles from the shore, but in a little more than an hour the land was reached,
and as there was abundance of dry wood here, a good fire was soon kindled, before which, on
a buffalo skin, I placed my ice-covered companion.  He turned himself around when necessary,
and, ere the other sled arrived, Jack was himself again.  As two of the Indians behind us had
fallen into this same fissure, we were delayed for some time in getting them dry again.

We boiled our kettle and had some more tea, and then on we hurried.  I met with a very warm
welcome from the people.  The greater part of them were Indians I had met in other years. 
Many were from Norway House.  To this place they had come, attracted by the stories of its
valuable fisheries and productive soil.  So rapidly had the Mission at Norway House increased
that fish and game were beginning to fail.  Hence a large number emigrated to this and other
places.

To this place they had come late in the summer, and so the little houses they had built were
small and cold.  Then, to make matters worse, the fisheries had not proved to be what they
had been represented.  They crowded round me as I drove into their village, and told me of
their "hungerings oft," and other hardships.  As some sleds were ready to start for Manitoba,
I hurried into one of the little homes to pencil a note to my Chairman, the Reverend George
Young, but found it to be almost an impossibility, as the four fingers of my right hand were
frozen.  These, and a frozen nose, reminded me for several days of that sixty miles' run on
short rations.

I found, in addition to the Christian Indians, quite a number of others who had been attracted
to this place.  I spent eight days among them. They had about a dozen little houses, in addition
to a large number of wigwams.  For their supplies they were depending on their rabbit snares,
and their nets for fish, which were obtained in but limited quantities. As my food had been
stolen from me by the dogs, I had nothing but what they gave me; but of their best they supplied
me most cheerfully, and so I breakfasted, dined, and supped on rabbit or fish, and fared well.

I preached, as was my custom, three times a day, and kept school between the services.  I organised
a class or society of thirty-five members, ten of whom for the first time now decided for Christ,
and resolved henceforth to be His loyal followers.  It was a great joy to be gathering in those
decided ones, as the result of the seed sown amidst the discouragements of earlier years. 
I was very fortunate in securing a good leader, or spiritual overseer, for this little flock
in the wilderness.  Benjamin Cameron was his name.  He had had a strange career.  He had been
a cannibal in his day, but Divine Grace had gone down into the depths of sin into which he
had sunk, and had lifted him out, and put his feet upon the Rock, and filled his lips with
singing, and his heart with praise.  He was emphatically "a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost."

The hours I spent with the children were very pleasant and profitable. I was pleased to hear
the elder children read so well, and was especially delighted with their knowledge of the Catechism
in both Cree and English.  I distributed a fresh supply of books which I had brought them,
and also gave to the needy ones some warm, comfortable garments sent by loving friends from
Montreal.

If the dear friends, into whose hearts the good desire to send these very comfortable garments
had been put, could only have seen how much misery was relieved, and happiness conferred, they
would have felt amply rewarded for their gifts.

In connection with one of the Sunday services I administered the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper.
We had a most solemn and impressive yet delightful time.  The Loving Saviour seemed very near,
and fresh vows and covenants were entered into by all, that to Him they would be true.

I spent Christmas among them, and as one of them had succeeded in getting some minks in his
traps, and for the skins had obtained from some passing "free-traders" some flour and plums,
they got up, in honour of my visit, a plum-pudding.  It haunts me yet, and so I will not here
describe it.

As beautiful weather favoured us on our return, we took the straight route home, and arrived
there in two days, rejoicing that the trip, as regarded its spiritual aspects, had been a great
success.

