Signor Fortini had in the meantime, not without infinite difficulty succeeded in persuading
the Marchese that he must bring himself to submit to the ordeal of being present in the court
on the occasion of the trial. The Marchese's extreme dislike to appearing thus publicly had
been in no degree overcome or diminished. And it was only the lawyer's positive and repeated
declaration, that he would assuredly be sent for, if he did not spontaneously present himself,
that had availed to induce him to say at length that he would go. Every possible attention,
the lawyer had assured him, would be paid to him, and everything done to make his attendance
as little disagreeable to him as possible. Of course, as Fortini urged, it was well known,
through the city how dreadfully he must have been affected by the sad circumstances that had
happened--people would be prepared to see him looking ill and changed. Curious? Yes, of course
people were curious--it was impossible to prevent them from being so; but he, Fortini, would
take care that their curiosity should not be manifested in any way that could be offensive
to the Marchese.

Thus, an unwilling consent to attend the sitting of the court on the morning of the trial had
been forced from the unhappy Marchese,-- from him who, so few weeks ago before the fatal coming
of the fascinating singer to Ravenna, had been the happiest, the most prosperous, and the most
secure of men; and it had been arranged that Signor Fortini should, on that morning; call for
him at the Palazzo and accompany him to the tribunal.

When the morning came it seemed to Signor Fortini as if be should have to do all his work over
again. He found the Marchese up and dressed. He had not shaved himself, however,--declaring,
with abundant appearance of truth, that, in the state he then was, it was utterly beyond his
power to do so, and he absolutely refused to allow it to be done for him; and the effect of
the stubbly grisled beard of a week's growth or so on the hollow lantern jaws, which all the
city had been accustomed to see clean shaved, and plump, and florid with health,--was such
as to render him barely recognizable as the same man by the eyes that had known him all his
life. It seemed, too, to the lawyer that the shocking change which had taken place in him was
even more painfully marked by his attempt to dress himself in his usual manner than it had
been in his chamber wrapper. His clothes, which were wont to fit so well, and set off to advantage
his well-made and stalwart figure, hung about him in bags and pantaloon-like folds, a world
too wide for his shrunken form.

On the first entrance of the lawyer he protested that the effort was altogether beyond his
strength,--that it was impossible for him to go through the ordeal. Did they want him to die
before their eyes on the benches of the court?

A renewed suggestion by Fortini to the effect that the only means by which the necessity could
be avoided would be by a certificate from the medical authority trusted in such matters by
the court--his own old friend the Professor Tomosarchi, produced only a reiterated and violent
declaration that he would not receive any visit from the Professor.

Eventually, the strong representations made by the lawyer of the much greater unpleasantness,
and the very much to be deprecated effect, of entering the court as an unwilling witness in
forced obedience to a mandate from the tribunal, decided the wretched Marchese to allow himself
to be led down to the carriage.

Even as he came, bent and shaking, down the great staircase of the Palazzo leaning on Fortini's
arm, and had to pass, in crossing the hall to the carriage, all the servants of his household,
most of whom had not seen him since the evening of the last day of Carnival, and who were urged
by curiosity to take this opportunity of looking at their terribly-changed master, it seemed
to him that his martyrdom had commenced.

He passed through the streets of the city with the blinds of the carriage drawn down, and with
his eyes closed as he lay thrown back into the corner of it: but, as he felt it draw up at
the entrance to the "prefettura," he suddenly grasped the lawyer's hand, and Fortini felt,
with a shudder, that his hand was as cold as that of a corpse. He was altogether in such a
state that Signor Fortini began to fear that there really would be some catastrophe in the
court before the business of the day could be concluded.

With the aid of a servant on one side and of the lawyer on the other, however, he was got out
of the carriage, and, almost supporting him, the lawyer, who had made all his arrangements
previously, led him into the building by a private door and to the chamber in which the tribunal
was sitting by a private passage used only by the magistrates, and opening into the court in
the immediate vicinity of the seats occupied by them, by the side of which a chair had been
assigned to the Marchese.

Nor had Signor Fortini's cares and preparations ended there. He had spoken with each one of
the magistrates who were to try the case, in no wise telling them of the Marchese's unwillingness
to appear, but representing the terrible state of mental and bodily prostration to which the
dreadful nature of the late events had very naturally reduced him, and which would have rendered
it utterly impossible for him to appear in court, but for his indomitable will, and the high
sense of duty, which had led him to think it, under the circumstances his duty to do so.

To no soul had he whispered a word of the Marchese's very marked reluctance to attend at the
trial, save to his old and intimate friend of many years standing, the Professor Tomosarchi,
whom he had thought it advisable to consult as to the desirability of his seeing the Marchese
before he was called on to make the effort. To his surprise he had found Tomosarchi almost
as unwilling to see the Marchese, as the Marchese had been to see him. He did not say at once,
as the latter had done, that he would not see him, But while admitting the strong desirability
that the Marchese should be present at the trial, he yet manifested a strong reluctance, which
the lawyer could not understand, to taking any share in the task of persuading and preparing
him to do so.

The magistrates, who were all of them old friends of Signor Fortini, and to each of whom he
had spoken, separately on the subject, had seemed to find no difficulty in understanding, that
it was very natural under all the circumstances, that the Marchese should have been terribly
affected, both in body and mind, by the late events. It had been suggested to them by the lawyer,
that it would be well to avoid, as far as possible, anything that should make it necessary
for the Marchese to speak at all, even in saluting him on his entrance. When therefore, just
after the court had assembled, the Marchese, trembling and shivering in every limb, was led
in by the little door that opened close behind the seat he was to occupy, the magistrates contented
themselves with rising and bowing to him in silence. The court, as might have been expected,
was very full; and it was impossible to prevent a very marked and audible manifestation of
the shock produced upon the spectators by the changed appearance of one so well known to them
from running through the crowd.

Even in the territories of the Pope, a criminal court is in these days an open and public one.
There is no jury, and the criminal, or suspected person, may be subjected to any amount of
examination on oath. But, in other respects, the method of procedure is not very dissimilar
from our own. The prosecution is conducted by an officer analogous to our attorney-general,
or by his substitute; and is defended by any advocate of the court whom he may employ for the
purpose. The appreciation of the credibility of testimony, the greater or lesser value of circumstantial
evidence, the application and interpretation of the law, and the award of sentence, remain
with the judges, subject to appeal to a higher court. Moreover, in the present case, the inquiry
assumed more of the form of a general attempt to ascertain the solution of an unexplained mystery,
than would have been compatible with the forms of our criminal courts, inasmuch as there were
two prisoners to be tried for the crime, whom no theory of the circumstances had suggested
to be accomplices, and the conviction of either of whom, according to the hypothesis which
had been started, involved the absolution of the other.

The judicial oath is administered not as with us, but by requiring the accused person, or the
witness, to assert that he is speaking the truth, while placing the extended hand on a carved
representation of the crucified Redeemer. And there can be no doubt that this ceremony has
a very strong effect on the imagination and nervous system among the easily moved races of
the south. Many a crime has been avowed, because the paralyzed lips of the criminal were absolutely
incapable of pronouncing the lie he fully purposed to speak, while he thus openly appealed
to the material figure which had the power of enabling the sluggish southern imagination to
realize the presence of the Creator.

There would be little interest in detailing at length the proceedings of the trial; since nothing
was elicited that would be in any way new to the reader, or that was calculated to throw any
fresh light on the circumstances to be inquired into, until the business in hand was nearly
concluded.

Every tenderness had been shown to the misfortunes and to the terrible state of suffering of
the Marchese. A full statement of his own conduct at the ball, and on the following morning,
had been extracted, with very little indulgence in the process, from the Conte Leandro, from
whose white and pasty face the perspiration had rained beyond the power of any handkerchief
to control it, while he described himself as an eavesdropper, an informer, and a spy. And all
that had been required from the Marchese Lamberto was the admission that the Conte Leandro's
statements, as far as regarded what had taken place at the ball, were correct.

But the fact was that the case was well-nigh prejudged before the professed trial began. All
Ravenna, including the police authorities, who had investigated the matter, and the judges
who came into court well instructed in all that had been done, and all that could be known
upon the subject, had made up their minds that the stranger girl was and must have been the
criminal. It was infinitely more agreeable to everybody concerned to suppose that such should
be the case rather than that such a damning blot should fall on the noblest house in the city,
and that in the person of one of the most popular men in it; and, at the same time, it must
be owned that the case was so strong against Paolina that a prejudice against her could hardly
be called a corrupt one.

Her own conduct during the trial had tended yet farther to impress the minds of all present
against her. Not that there was anything in her appearance and manner that was otherwise than
calculated to conciliate pity and favourable opinion. Her entrance into the court had excited
the greatest interest. She had on a black silk dress made in the simplest and plainest possible
fashion; and the colour of it, where the neckband encircled her slender throat, made an absolutely
startling contrast with the utterly colourless whiteness of her skin. Her manner was very subdued,
very quiet; nor did she exhibit any signs of fear; or much of emotion, save to those who were
near enough to her to perceive a quiet, silent, and undemonstrative tear steal occasionally
down her dead-white cheek.

But when examined as to her disposal of herself after leaving the church of Apollinare--as
to her motives for changing her purpose, if it were true, as she stated, that she did change
her purpose of entering the Pineta--she became embarrassed and failed to give any satisfactory
reply.

Ludovico had, at an early stage of the proceedings, been removed from the court, after having
been in vain again and again requested by the judges to abstain from interfering with the progress
of the case against Paolina.

At last, when almost everybody in the court had made up their minds that there could, in truth,
be no doubt that the young Venetian, goaded to frenzy by her jealousy, had been the author
of the murder, and quite everybody was convinced that such would be the decision of the judges,
the latter were on the point of retiring from the court to confer, and consider their sentence,
more as a matter of form, probably, than anything else, when an incident occurred that made
a change in the aspect of matters.

CHAPTER VII

The Friar's Testimony

In a criminal trial in the states of His Holiness the Pope, there is none of that absolute
and inflexible adherence to certain rigid forms and rules which gives to many of the proceedings
of our courts that character of an inevitable destiny-like march which is so dramatic in its
operations--that sense of the presence there of a power greater than that of the greatest of
the men concerned in the administration of it, which constitutes on large element in an Englishman's
respect for the law. At times this automatic power, which has been thus created Faust-like,
by reason of the impossibility of pre-adapting its mechanism to the exigences of every case,
works to unforseen and undesired ends--sometimes even to absurd ones. And, with thinkers of
a certain phase of modern thought, it has been a favourite taunt against the average British
mind, that it rather delights in the contemplation of such abnormal workings of the great automatic
law in which it has created. Some manifest mistake or error has occurred. The man supposed
to be murdered walks into court; but it is a minute too late; the verdict has been given--the
sentence pronounced. All the court judges, witnesses, counsel--look at each other in dismay;
the great law automaton cannot be made to swerve in its path by any power there. And the average
Englishman likes the contemplation of such a case, it is sneered; and the sneer may be joined
in by those who, under other systems, have the immediate power of setting any such mistakes
right by a word. But the sneer, let the Englishman be assured, would by no means be joined
in by the population, who are subject to the action of courts and judges. thus able by superior
word to direct the course of justice.

The new incident which suddenly arose to change all the aspects of the trial and its results
would, as far as the analogy of the Roman mode of proceeding and our own holds good, have been
too late in one of our courts to produce the results which it did produce. The judges were
on the point of retiring to consider their decision and sentence when they were met at the
little private door, by which they were about to leave the court, by one of the ushers. And
the consequence of the few words he spoke to them was that they gave an order--turned back,
and resumed their places.

It might well have been that the new incident might have been prevented from bringing about
the result it was calculated to bring about in the Ravenna Court; but the miscarriage would
have been caused in an altogether different way from that which has been spoken as sometimes
characterising our own courts.

It was very clear to everybody present that the judges would pronounce Paolina to be guilty
of the crime they were investigating; and to everybody present, with one or two exceptions,
this was a very agreeable and satisfactory winding-up of the unhappy affair. Ravenna would
be able to wash her hands of the matter. It was wholly, both in conception and execution, the
work of a stranger. Since so great a misfortune had happened, it could not be more satisfactorily
accounted for.

It is probable enough, therefore, that any Tom, Jack, or Harry, who, at that conjuncture, had
presented himself at the prefettura for the avowed purpose of bringing a new light to the solution
of the mystery which had been already so satisfactorily solved, might have experienced considerable
difficulty in obtaining for himself any access to, or hearing from, the judges.

But the person who had now thus presented himself at the prefettura of Ravenna belonged to
a body, the very lowest and poorest members of which, in that country, can always find, somehow
or other, some means of compassing almost any object which is not disapproved by some superior
member of their own corporation. The new-comer was a friar--old Father Fabiano, the priest
of St. Apollinare, as the reader may have conjectured.

The police agents had been anxious to produce him there, as the reader knows, and he had baffled
their wishes. Now the result which it had been desired that he should contribute to had been
brought about, or as good as brought about, without him. What did he want there now?

There was an old usher about the court, however, whose advancing years were beginning to make
him disagreeably conscious that the time was at hand when a sentence to a long term of purgatory--to
say nothing of any severer doom--might make it exceedingly desirable to him to stand well with
all those who are understood to have influence with the government in the world beyond the
grave; and,-- if there had been no such person, the friar would have known somebody--some old
or young woman, probably--or he would have known some other friar who knew some such, who would
have been able to influence some brother, lover, or husband, in the way he wished. As it was,
Father Fabiano had no difficulty at all in conveying the message he wished to communicate to
the judges.

They turned back to their places in the court, to the surprise and sudden awakening of new
interest in the audience, and ordered that the new witness who had presented himself should
be admitted and heard.

And Father Fabiano, bowed with age, and his hoary head bent down on his breast, but neither
shivering nor shaking, advanced to the witness-table. The crucifix was lying on it, and the
friar, with the manner of a man recognizing in a new employment tools which he is well used
to, at once stretched out his emaciated and claw-like hand, and made oath that he was about
to speak the truth.

The Procuratore of the court then began to examine the old man with reference to his knowledge
of the circumstances connected with the visit of Paolina Foscarelli to the church of St. Apollinare,
and her disposal of herself after leaving it; but the friar replied that it would be uselessly
occupying the time of the court to enter into any such particulars, inasmuch as he had come
thither to prove that Paolina had nothing whatever to do with the crime.

"But," remarked the Procuratore, "if it is in your power to do that, why did you not give the
necessary information to the Commissary of Police when you were, on several occasions, examined
at St. Apollinare?"

"Signori miei," said the old man, addressing himself to the court in general, "it is no affair
of mine to meddle with the administration of human justice. No words that I could say could
undo the deed, or bring the murdered woman back to life. Evil enough had been done. Why should
I cause further trouble, and sorrow, and shame, to others? It was more fitting to one of my
order to leave retribution in the hands of Him who can best award it, and whose mercy may touch
the heart of the sinner with repentance."

"But if so, frate mio," rejoined the Procuratore, "what, pray, is the motive that now brings
you here?"

"Surely, the determination that the innocent shall not suffer for the guilty. It seemed to
me that it would never be known, save to Him who knows the secrets of all hearts, what hand
had done that terrible deed; but now I know that the fallibility of all human judgment has
led questi Signori to the conclusion that the girl Paolina is guilty, and her condemnation
would be a misfortune greater than the first--I knowing the hand which did that deed."

"Ha, you know the murderer; you suppose you know him? You come to offer us your guess, your
suggestion?"

"I come, Signori miei, with pain and sorrow and great reluctance, to save you from condemning
an innocent person by naming him who is guilty."

A sort of buzz and almost shiver of interest, anxiety, and expectation ran through the court,
as the old friar spoke the above words in a stronger voice than that in which he had yet spoken.

"Friar," said the Procuratore solemnly and severely; "it is my duty, before you speak, to warn
you to take heed to what you say. You are about, you say, to make an accusation the most tremendous
that one man can bring against another. Bethink you whether you are able to substantiate what
you are about to utter. Remember that, if you cannot substantiate it, it would be an hundred-fold
better that your suspicion should remain unuttered."

The Procuratore, as well as every one else in the court, had little or no doubt that the friar
was about to accuse the Marchese Ludovico as the perpetrator of the murder. And some, among
whom were Signor Fortini, and Signor Logarini the Commissary of Police, were persuaded that
the old man was going to trump up some story in the hope of saving his countrywoman, Paolina.

"Were it not for the necessity of protecting the innocent, Signori, God knows how much I should
prefer to carry my terrible secret with me to the grave. Signori miei, these eyes SAW the deed
done, that put the sleeping woman to death. Only God and I, the lowest of his servants! God
and I saw the Marchese Lamberto di Castelmare do that deed!"

A loud indignant murmur of incredulity was beginning to rise throughout the crowded court,
like the first getting up of a storm wind.

But it was suddenly hushed, and turned into a spasm of horror and intense shock, that made
every man hold his breath, when the sound of a sudden heavy fall was heard; and it was seen
that the Marchese Lamberto had fallen insensible to the ground.

CHAPTER VIII

The Truth!

The Professor Tomosarchi was in the court, and had been, as it happened, though unseen by the
Marchese, fixing his eyes on him at the moment when the catastrophe narrated in the last chapter
occurred. Springing forwards, therefore, the medical man was in a moment by the side of his
old friend.

If, according to the strict letter of the requirements of their duty, the magistrates or the
police authorities present ought, under the circumstances, to have prevented the free departure
of the accused man to his own home, it did not occur to any one to do so. Professor Tomosarchi
and Fortini between them, got him, still insensible, to his carriage, and took him to his home.

"Is it more than a mere fainting fit?" said the lawyer, as they both were supporting the person
of the insensible Marchese. "Could you not do some thing to restore consciousness? Can that
old friar have spoken the truth?"

"Apoplexy," said the Professor, with a serious and almost scared look into the other's eyes.
"Apoplexy, and no mistake about it. Don't you hear the stertorous breathing. No, nothing can
be attempted till we get him home. We shall be at the palazzo in a minute. We shall see; but
I doubt--I doubt!"

"You mean that his life is in danger?" asked the lawyer.

"In danger! I have hardly any hope that he will ever return to consciousness or speak another
word again."

"Good God! you don't mean that," cried the lawyer, much shocked.

"Indeed I do; it is possible, but very improbable that be should rally sufficiently to survive
the attack," replied the Professor.

"Perhaps," rejoined the lawyer, gravely and sadly after a few moments of silence; "perhaps
it would be best so. I fear me--I much fear me, that this can hardly be looked on but as the
confirmation of that old man's declaration."

The Professor looked hard into the lawyer's eyes, as he nodded his head, without speaking,
in grave assent.

They arrived in another minute at the door of the Palazzo Castelmare. The servants ran out,
and they carried him up into the chamber where, ever since that fatal Ash Wednesday morning,
he had, as Fortini now well understood, been suffering a long agony of remorse, apprehension,
despair, all the intensity of which it was difficult to appreciate.

Life was not yet extinct when they laid him upon his bed; and the Professor proceeded to do
what the rules of his science prescribed in the all but hopeless effort to combat the attack.
But the miserable man had suffered his last in this life, and every effort to bring him back
to further torture was unavailing. Within half-an- hour after he had been brought back to his
palace he breathed his last.

"It is all over with him," said the Professor, looking up across the bed to the lawyer standing
on the other side of it; "there was no possibility of prolonging his life--happily for him,
and happily for everybody connected with him, and for all of us. Who would have thought a short
month ago that such a life could have so ended?"

"The 24th of March, Signor Professore, is the anniversary on which, more fervently than on
any other day of the year, I thank God for all his mercies," said the lawyer, with grim solemnity.

"I don't understand you, Signor Dottore; what has the 24th of March to do with this?" said
Tomosarchi, staring at him.

"On the 24th of March, four-and-forty years ago, the Signora Fortini departed this life, Signor
Professore. But for that gracious disposition of Providence, who knows that his lot, or worse,
might not have been mine? From Eve downwards, Signor Professore, from Eve downwards, it is
the same story--always the same story, in one shape or another--in one shape or another."

The Professor, who was the lawyer's junior by some thirty years, turned away with a shrug of
the shoulders, and stepped across the room to the small escritoire near the window. There opening,
without hesitation, and with the manner of a man familiar with the place, a small concealed
drawer, he called the lawyer to him.

"Just come here and look at the contents of this drawer, Signor Fortini. There is a curious
meaning in them."

Fortini went across from the bed to the escritoire, and the Professor took from the drawer
and showed to him a small coloured drawing of a human form, with just such a mark on it as
had been visible on the spot of the wound which had destroyed La Bianca's life. He showed him
also, in the same secret receptacle, a long very finely tempered needle, and a small quantity
of perfectly white wax.

"Good God, Professor! Were you aware of the existence of these things here?" cried the lawyer,
aghast.

