American travellers in Italy will sometimes be repelled by a certain narrowness in the critical
estimate of modern sculptors; though of all arts sculpture demands and justifies the most liberal
eclecticism. Thus, a broad line of demarcation has been arbitrarily drawn between high finish
and prolific invention, originality and superficial skill; as if these merits could not be
united, or were incompatible with each other,--and that, invariably, works of "outward skill
elaborate" are "of inward less exact." A Boston critic denominates Powers "a sublime mechanic,"
as if there were only physical imitation in his busts, and no expression in his figures. The
insinuation is unjust. By exquisite finish and patient labor he makes of such subjects as the
Fisher-boy, the Proserpine, and Il Penseroso charming creations,--in attitude and feature true
to the moment and the mood delineated, and not less true in each detail; their popularity is
justified by scientific and tasteful canons; and his portrait busts and statues are, in many
instances, unrivalled for character as well as execution. A letter to one of his friends lies
before us, in which he responds to an amicable remonstrance at his apparent slowness of achievement.
The reasoning is so cogent, the principle asserted of such wide application, and the artistic
conscience so nobly evident, that we venture to quote a passage.

"It is said, that works designed to adorn buildings need not be done with much care, being
only architectural sculptures. This is quite a modern idea. The Greeks did not entertain it,
as is proved by those gems which Lord Elgin sawed away from the walls of the Parthenon. I cannot
admit that a noble art should ever be prostituted to purposes of mere show. They do not make
rough columns, coarse and uneven friezes, jagged mouldings, etc., for buildings. These are
always highly finished. Are figures in marble less important? But speed, speed, is the order
of the day,--'quick and cheap' is the cry; and if I prefer to linger behind and take pains
with the little I do, there are some now, and there will be more hereafter, to approve it.
I cannot consent to model statues at the rate of three in six months, and a clear conscience
will reward me for not having yielded to the temptation of making money at the sacrifice of
my artistic reputation. Art is, or should be, poetry, in its various forms,--no matter what
it is written upon,--parchment, paper, canvas, or marble. Milton employed his daughter to write
his 'Paradise Lost,' not to compose it; her hand was moved by his soul; she was his modelling-tool,--nothing
more. But to employ another to model for you, and go away from him, is not analogous. He then
composes for you; modelling is composition. And whom did Shakspeare get to do this for him?
Whom did Gray employ to arrange in words that immortal wreath set with diamond thoughts which
he has thrown upon a country churchyard? Whom did Michel Angelo get to model his Moses? How
many young men did Ghiberti employ during the forty years he was engaged upon the Gates of
Paradise? I cannot yield my convictions of what is proper in Art. I will do my work as well
as I know how, and necessity compels me to demand ample payment for it."

We have sometimes wondered that some aesthetic philosopher has not analyzed the vital relation
of the arts to each other and given a popular exposition of their mutual dependence. Drawing
from the antique has long been an acknowledged initiation for the limner, and Campbell, in
his terse description of the histrionic art, says that therein "verse ceases to be airy thought,
and sculpture to be dumb." How much of their peculiar effects did Talma, Kemble, and Rachel
owe to the attitudes, gestures, and drapery of the Grecian statues! Kean adopted the "dying
fall" of General Abercrombie's figure in St. Paul's as the model of his own. Some of the memorable
scenes and votaries of the drama are directly associated with the sculptor's art,-- as, for
instance, the last act of "Don Giovanni," wherein the expressive music of Mozart breathes a
pleasing terror in connection with the spectral nod of the marble horseman; and Shakspeare
has availed himself of this art, with beautiful wisdom, in that melting scene where remorseful
love pleads with the motionless heroine of the "Winter's Tale,"--

          "Her natural posture!

Garrick imitated to the life, in "Abel Drugger," a vacant stare peculiar to Nollekens, the
sculptor; and Colley Cibber's father was a devotee of the chisel and adorned Chatsworth with
free-stone Sea-Nymphs.

Crawford's interest in portrait-busts was secondary, owing to his inventive ardor; the study
he bestowed upon the lineaments of Washington, however, gave a zest and a special insight to
his endeavor to represent his head in marble, and, accordingly, this specimen of his ability,
which arrived in this country after his decease, is remarkable for its expressive, original,
and finished character. For ourselves, in view of the great historical value, comparative authenticity,
and possible significance and beauty of this department of sculpture, it has a peculiar interest
and charm. The most distinct idea we have of the Roman emperors, even in regard to their individual
characters, is derived from their busts at the Vatican and elsewhere. The benignity of Trajan,
the animal development of Nero, and the classic rigor of young Augustus are best apprehended
through these memorable effigies which Time has spared and Art transmitted. And a similar permanence
and distinctness of impression associate most of our illustrious moderns with their sculptured
features: the ironical grimace of Voltaire is perpetuated by Houdon's bust; the sympathetic
intellectuality of Schiller by Dannecker's; Handel's countenance is familiar through the elaborate
chisel of Roubillac; Nollekens moulded Sterne's delicate and unimpassioned but keen physiognomy,
and Chantrey the lofty cranium of Scott. Who has not blessed the rude but conscientious artist
who carved the head of Shakspeare preserved at Stratford? How quaintly appropriate to the old
house in Nuremberg is Albert Duerer's bust over the door! Our best knowledge of Alexander Hamilton's
aspect is obtained from the expressive marble head of him by that ardent republican sculptor,
Ceracchi. It was appropriate for Mrs. Darner, the daughter of a gallant field-marshal, to portray
in marble, as heroic idols, Fox, Nelson, and Napoleon. We were never more convinced of the
intrinsic grace and solemnity of this form of "counterfeit presentment" than when exploring
the Bacioechi palazzo at Bologna. In the centre of a circular room, lighted from above, and
draped as well as carpeted with purple, stood on a simple pedestal the bust of Napoleon's sister,
thus enshrined after death by her husband. The profound stillness, the relief of this isolated
head against a mass of dark tints, and its consequent emphatic individuality, made the sequestered
chamber seem a holy place, where communion with the departed, so spiritually represented by
the exquisite image, appeared not only natural, but inevitable. Our countryman, Powers, has
eminently illustrated the possible excellence of this branch of Art. In mathematical correctness
of detail, unrivalled finish of texture, and with these, in many cases, the highest characterization,
busts from his hand have an absolute artistic value, independent of likeness, like a portrait
by Vandyck or Titian. When the subject is favorable, his achievements in this regard are memorable,
and fill the eye and mind with ideas of beauty and meaning undreamed of by those who consider
marble portraits as wholly imitative and mechanical. Was there ever a human face which so completely
reflected inward experience and individual genius as the bust which haunts us throughout Italy,
broods over the monument in Santa Croce, gazes pensively from library niche, seems to awe the
more radiant images of boudoir and gallery, and sternly looks melancholy reproach from the
Ravenna tomb?

  "The lips, as Cumae's cavern close,
  The cheeks, with fast and sorrow thin,
  The rigid front, almost morose,
  But for the patient hope within,
  Declare a life whose course hath been
  Unsullied still, though still severe,
  Which, through the wavering days of sin,
  Kept itself icy chaste and clear."

National characters become, as it were, household gods through the sculptor's portrait; the
duplicates of Canova's head of Napoleon seem as appropriate in the salons and shops of France,
as the heads of Washington and Franklin in America, or the antique images of Scipio Africanus
and Ceres in Sicily, and Wellington and Byron in London.

There is no phase of modern life so legitimate in its enjoyment and so pleasing to contemplate
as the life of the true artist. Endowed with a faculty and inspired by a love for creative
beauty, work is to him at once a high vocation and a generous instinct. Imagine the peace and
the progress of those years at Rome when Crawford toiled day after day in his studio,--at first
without encouragement and for bread, then in a more confident spirit and with some definite
triumph, and at last crowned with domestic happiness and artistic renown,--his mind filled
with ideal tasks more and more grand in their scope, and the coming years devoted in prospect
to the realization of his noblest aspirations. From early morning to twilight, with rare and
brief interruptions, he thus designed, modelled, chiselled, superintended, every day adding
something permanent to his trophies. This self-consecration was entire, and in his view indispensable.
Few and simple were the recreative interludes: a reunion of brother-artists or fellow-countrymen
and their families,--an occasional journey, almost invariably with a professional intent,--a
summer holiday or a winter festival; but, methodical in pastime as in work, his family and
his books were his cherished resources. Often so weary at night that he returned home only
to recline on a couch, caress his children, or refresh his mind with some agreeable volume
provided by his vigilant companion,--the best energies of his mind and the freshest hours of
life were absolutely given to Art. This is the great lesson of his career: not by spasmodic
effort, or dalliance with moods, or fitful resolution, did he accomplish so much; but by earnestness
of purpose, consistency of aim, heroic decision of character. There is nothing less vague,
less casual in human experience, than true artist-life. Rome is the shrine of many a dreamer,
the haunt of countless inefficient enthusiasts. But there, as elsewhere, will must intensify
thought, action control imagination, or both are fruitless. Those melancholy ruins, those grand
temples of religion, the immortal forms and hues that glorify palace and chapel, square, mausoleum,
and Vatican, the dreamy murmur of fountains, the aroma of violets and pine-trees, the pensive
relics of imperial sway, the sublime desolation of the Campagna, the mystery of Nature and
Art, when both are hallowed by time, the social zest of an original brotherhood like the artists,
the freedom and loveliness, the ravishment of spring and the soft radiance of sunset, all that
there captivates soul and sense, must be resisted as well as enjoyed;--self-control, self-respect,
self-dedication are as needful as susceptibility, or these peerless local charms will only
enchant to betray the artist. Crawford carried to Rome the ardor of an Irish temperament and
the vigor of an American character. Hundreds have passed through a like ordeal of privation,
ungenial because conventional work, and slow approach to the goal of recognized power and remunerated
sacrifice; but few have emerged from the shadow to the sunshine, by such manly steps and patient,
cheerful trust. It was not the voice of complaint that first attracted towards him intelligent
sympathy,--it was brave achievement; and from the day when a remittance from Boston enabled
him to put his Orpheus in marble, to the day when, attended by his devoted sister, he paid
the last visit to his crowded studio, and looked, with quivering eyelids, but firm heart, on
the silent but eloquent offspring of his brain and hand, the Artist in him was coincident with
the Man,--clear, unswerving, productive, the sphere extending, the significance multiplying,
and the mastery becoming more and more complete through resolute practice, vivid intuition,
and candid search for truth.

In the fifteenth century, and earlier, the lives of artists were adventurous; political relations
gave scope to incident; and Michel Angelo, Salvator Rosa, and Benvenuto Cellini furnish almost
as many anecdotes as memorials of genius. In modern times, however, vicissitude has chiefly
diversified the uniform and tranquil existence of the artist; his struggles with fortune, and
not his relations to public events, have given external interest to his biography. It is the
mental rather than the outward life which is fraught with significance to the painter and sculptor;
consciousness more than experience affords salient points in his career. How the executive
are trained to embody the creative powers, through what struggles dexterity is attained, and
by what reflection and earnest musing and observant patience and blest intuitions original
achievements glimmer upon the fancy, grow mature by thought, correct through the study of Nature,
and are finally realized in action,-- these and such as these inward revelations constitute
the actual life of the artist. The mere events of Crawford's existence are neither marvellous
nor varied; his early love of imitative pastime, his fixed purpose, his resort to stone-cutting
as the nearest available expedient for the gratification of that instinct to copy and create
form which so decidedly marks an aptitude for sculpture, his visit to Rome, the self-denial
and the lonely toil of his novitiate, his rapid advancement in both knowledge and skill, and
his gradual recognition as a man of original mind and wise enthusiasm are but the normal characteristics
of his fraternity. Circumstances, however, give a singular prominence and pathos to these usual
facts of artist-life. When Crawford began his professional career, sculpture, as an American
pursuit, was almost as rare as painting at the time of West's advent in Rome; to excel therein
was a national distinction, having a freshness and personal interest such as the votaries of
older countries did not share; as the American representative of his art at Rome, even in the
eyes of his comrades, and especially in the estimation of his countrymen, he long occupied
an isolated position. The qualities of the man,--his patient industry,--the new and unexpected
superiority in different branches of his art, so constantly exhibited,--the loyal, generous,
and frank spirit of his domestic and social life,--the freedom, the faith, and the assiduity
that endeared him to so large and distinguished a circle, were individual claims often noted
by foreigners and natives in the Eternal City as honorable to his country. It was remembered
there, when he died, that the hand now cold had warmly grasped in welcome his compatriots,
shouldered a musket as one of the republican guard, and been extended with sympathy and aid
to his less prosperous brothers. At the meeting of fellow-artists, convened to pay a tribute
to his memory, every nation of Europe was represented, and the most illustrious of living English
sculptors was the first to propose a substantial memorial to his name. What his nativity and
his character thus so eminently contributed to signalize, the offspring of his genius, the
manner of his death, solemnly confirmed. By no sudden fever, such as insidiously steals from
the Roman marshes and poisons the blood of its victims,--by no violent epidemic, like those
which have again and again devastated the cities of Europe,--by no illusive decline, whereby
vital power is sapped unconsciously and with mild gradations, and which, in that soft clime,
has peopled with the dust of strangers the cemetery which the pyramid of Cestius overshadows
and the heart of Shelley consecrates,--by none of these familiar gates of death did Crawford
pass on; but, in the meridian of his powers and his fame, in the climax of his artistic career,
in the noontide of his most genial activity, a corrosive tumor on the inner side of the orbit
of the eye encroached month by month, week by week, hour by hour, upon the sources of life.
Medical skill freed the brain from its deadly pressure, but could not divert its organic affinity.
The mind's integrity was thus preserved intact; consciousness and self-possession lent their
dignity to waning strength; but the alert muscles were relaxed; the busy hands folded in prayer;
what Michel Angelo uttered in his eighty-sixth Crawford was called upon to echo in his forty-fifth
year:--

  "Wellnigh the voyage now is overpast,
  And my frail bark, through troubled seas and rude,
  Draws nigh that common haven where at last,
  Of every action, be it evil or good,
  Must due account be rendered. Well I know
  How vain will then appear that favored art,
  Sole idol long, and monarch of my heart;
  For all is vain that man desires below."

The cheerful voice was often hushed by pain; but conjugal and sisterly love kept vigil, a long,
a bitter year, by that couch of suffering in the heart of multitudinous Paris and London; hundreds
of sympathizing friends, in both hemispheres, listened and prayed and hoped through a dreary
twelvemonth. With the ripe autumn closed the quiet struggle; and "in the bleak December" the
mortal remains were followed from the temple where his youth worshipped, to the snow-clad knoll
at Greenwood; garlands and tears, the ritual and the requiem, eulogy and elegy, consecrated
the final scene. By a singular coincidence, the news of his decease reached the United States
simultaneously with the arrival of the ship in James River with the colossal bronze statue
of Washington, his crowning achievement.

One would imagine, from the eagerness and intensity exhibited by Crawford, that he anticipated
a brief career. Work seemed as essential to his comfort as rest is to less determined natures.
He was a thorough believer in the moral necessity of absolute allegiance to his sphere; and
differed from his brother-artists chiefly in the decisive manner in which he kept aloof from
extrinsic and incidental influences. If Art ever made labor delectable, it was so with him.
He seemed to go through with the ordinary processes of life with but a half consciousness thereof,--save
where his personal affections were concerned. One of the first works for which he expressed
a sympathetic admiration was Thorwaldsen's "Triumph of Alexander,"--one of the most elaborate
and suggestive of modern friezes. He early contemplated an entire series of illustrations of
Ovid. He alternated, with infinite relish, between the extreme phases of his art,--a delicate
Peri and a majestic Colossus, an extensive array of basso rilievo figures, a sublime ideal
of manhood and an exquisite image of infancy. His alacrity of temper was co-equal with his
steadiness of purpose; and the cheerfulness of an active mind, sanguine temperament, and great
nervous energy did not abandon him, even in the state of forced passivity so intolerable to
such habitude; for hilarious words and, once or twice, the old ringing laugh startled the fond
watchers of his declining hours. The events of his life are but a few expressive outlines;
his works embody his most real experience; and the thoughts and feelings, the observation and
the sentiment, not therein moulded or sketched, happily found adequate record in the ample
and ingenuous letters he wrote to his beloved sister, from the time of his first arrival in
Europe to that of his last arrival in America,--embracing a period of twenty-two years. Each
work he conceived and executed, each process of study, the impressions he gained and the convictions
at which he arrived in relation to ancient and modern art,--each journey, achievement, plan,
opinion,--what he saw, and imagined, and hoped, and did,--was frankly and fondly noted; and
the time may come when these epistles, inspired by love and dictated by intelligent sympathy
and insight, will be compiled into a priceless memorial of artist-life.

ASIRVADAM THE BRAHMIN.

Who put together the machinery of the great Indian revolt, and set it going? Who stirred up
the sleeping tiger in the Sepoy's heart, and struck Christendom aghast with the dire devilries
of Meerut and Cawnpore?

Asirvadam the Brahmin!

Asirvadam is nimble with mace or cue; at the billiard-table, it is hinted, he can distinguish
a kiss from a carom; at the sideboard (and here, if I were Mr. Charles Reade, I would whisper,
in small type) he confounds not cocktails with cobblers; when, being in trade, he would sell
you saltpetre, he tries you with flax-seed; when he would buy indigo, he offers you indigo
at a sacrifice. Yet, in Asirvadam, if any quality is more noticeable than the sleek respectability
of the Baboo, it is the jealous orthodoxy of the Brahmin. If he knows in what presence to step
out of his slippers, and when to pick them up again with his toes, in jaunty dandyisms of etiquette,
he also makes the most of his insolent order and its patent of privilege, and wears the rue
of his triple cord with a demure and dignified difference. High, low, or jack, it is always
"the game" with him; and the game is--Asirvadam the Brahmin,--free tricks and Brahmins' rights,--Asirvadam
for his caste, and everything for Asirvadam.

The natural history of our astute and accomplished friend is worth a page or two. And first,
as to his color. Asirvadam comes from the northern provinces, and calls the snow-turbaned Himalayas
cousin; consequently his complexion is the brightest among Brahmins. By some who are uninitiated
in the chemical mysteries of our metropolitan milk-trade, it has been likened to chocolate
and cream, with plenty of cream; but the comparison depends, for the idea it conveys, so much
on the taste of the ethnological inquirer, as to the proportion of cream, and still so much
more, as in the case of Mr. Weller's weal pies, on the reputation of "the lady as makes it,"
that it will hardly serve the requirements of a severe scientific statement. Copper-color has
an excess of red, and sepia is too brown; the tarry tawniness of an old boatswain's hand is
nearer the mark, but even that is less among man-of-war's men than in the merchant-service,
and is least in the revenue marine; it varies, also, with the habits of the individual, and
the nature of his employment for the time being. The flipper of your legitimate shiver-my-timbery
old salt, whose most amiable office is piping all hands to witness punishment, has long since
acquired the hue of a seven-years' meerschaum; while the dandy cockswain of a forty-gun frigate
lying off the navy-yard, who brings the third cutter ship-shapely alongside with a pretty girl
in the stern-sheets, lends her--the pretty girl--a hand at the gangway, that has been softened
by fastidious applications of solvent slush to the tint of a long envelope "on public service."
"Law sheep," when we come to the binding of books, is too sallow for this simile; a little
volume of "Familiar Quotations," in limp calf, (Bartlett, Cambridge, 1855,) might answer,--if
the cover of the January number of the "Atlantic Monthly" were not exactly the thing.

Simplicity, convenience, decorum, and picturesqueness distinguish the costume of Asirvadam
the Brahmin. Three yards of yard-wide fine cotton cloth envelope his loins, in such a manner,
that, while one end hangs in graceful folds in front, the other falls in a fine distraction
behind. Over this, a robe of muslin, or silk, or pina cloth--the latter in peculiar favor,
by reason of its superior purity, for high-caste wear--covers his neck, breast, and arms, and
descends nearly to his ankles. Asirvadam borrowed this garment from the Mussulman; but he fastens
it on the left side, which the follower of the Prophet never does, and surmounts it with an
ample and elegant waistband, beside the broad Romanesque mantle that he tosses over his shoulder
with such a senatorial air. His turban, also, is an innovation,--not proper to the Brahmin,--pure
and simple, but, like the robe, adopted from the Moorish wardrobe, for a more imposing appearance
in Sahib society. It is formed of a very narrow strip, fifteen or twenty yards long, of fine
stuff, moulded to the orthodox shape and size by wrapping it, while wet, on a wooden block;
having been hardened in the sun, it is worn like a hat. As for his feet, Asirvadam, uncompromising
in externals, disdains to pollute them with the touch of leather. Shameless fellows, Brahmins
though they be, of the sect of Vishnu, go about, without a blush, in thonged sandals, made
of abominable skins; but Asirvadam, strict as a Gooroo when the eyes of his caste are on him,
is immaculate in wooden clogs.

In ornaments, his taste, though somewhat grotesque, is by no means lavish. A sort of stud or
button, composed of a solitary ruby, in the upper rim of the cartilage of either ear,--a chain
of gold, curiously wrought, and intertwined with a string of small pearls, around his neck,--a
massive bangle of plain gold on his arm,--a richly jewelled ring on his thumb, and others,
broad and shield-like, on his toes,--complete his outfit in these vanities.

As often as Asirvadam honors us with his morning visit of business or ceremony, a slight yellow
line, drawn horizontally between his eyebrows, with a paste composed of ground sandal-wood,
denotes that he has purified himself externally and internally, by bathing and prayers. To
omit this, even by the most unavoidable chance to appear in public without it, were to incur
a grave public scandal; only excepting the reason of mourning, when, by an expressive Oriental
figure, the absence of the caste-mark is accepted for the token of a profound and absorbing
sorrow, which takes no thought even for the customary forms of decency. The disciple of Siva
crossbars his forehead with ashes of cow-dung or ashes of the dead; the sectary of Vishnu adorns
his with a sort of trident, composed of a central perpendicular line in red, and two oblique
lines, white or yellow. But the true Brahmin knows no Siva or Vishnu, no sectarian distinctions
or preferences; Indra has set no seal upon his brow, nor Krishna, nor Devendra. For, ignoring
celestial personalities, it is the Trimurti that he grandly adores,--Creation, Preservation,
Destruction triune,--one body with three heads; and the right line alone, or pottu, the mystic
circle, describes the sublime simplicity of his soul's aspiration.

When Asirvadam was but seven years old, he was invested with the triple cord, by a grotesque,
and in most respects absurd, extravagant, and expensive ceremony, called the Upanayana, or
Introduction to the Sciences, because none but Brahmins are freely admitted to their mysteries.
This triple cord consists of three thick strands of cotton, each composed of several finer
threads; these three strands, representing Brahma, Vishnu, and Siva, are not twisted together,
but hang separately, from the left shoulder to the right hip. The preparation of so sacred
a badge is entrusted to none but the purest hands, and the process is attended with many imposing
ceremonies. Only Brahmins may gather the fresh cotton; only Brahmins may card and spin and
twist it; and its investiture is a matter of so great cost, that the poorer brothers must have
recourse to contributions from the pious of their caste, to defray the exorbitant charges of
priests and masters of ceremonies.

It is a noticeable fact in the natural history of the always insolent Asirvadam, that, unlike
Shatriya, the warrior, Vaishya, the cultivator, or Soodra, the laborer, he is not born into
the full enjoyment of his honors, but, on the contrary, is scarcely of more consideration than
a Pariah, until by the Upanayana he has been admitted to his birthright. Yet, once decorated
with the ennobling badge of his order, our friend became from that moment something superior,
something exclusive, something supercilious, arrogant, exacting,--Asirvadam, the high Brahmin,--a
creature of wide strides without awkwardness, towering airs without bombast, Sanscrit quotations
without pedantry, florid phraseology without hyperbole, allegorical illustrations and proverbial
points without sententiousness, fanciful flights without affectation, and formal strains of
compliment without offensive adulation.

When Asirvadam meets Asirvadam in the way, compliments pass: each touches his forehead with
his right hand, and murmurs twice the auspicious name of Rama. But the passing Vaishya or Soodra
elevates reverently his joined palms above his head, and, stepping out of his slippers, salutes
the descendant of the Seven Holy Penitents with namaskaram, the pious obeisance. Andam arya!
"Hail, exalted Lord!" he cries; and the exalted lord, extending the pure lilies of his hands
lordliwise, as one who condescends to accept an humble offering, mutters the mysterious benediction
which only Gooroos and high Brahmins may bestow,--Asirvadam!

The low-caste slave who may be admitted to the distinguished presence of our friend, to implore
indulgence, or to supplicate pardon for an offence, must thrice touch the ground, or the honored
feet, with both his hands, which immediately he lays upon his forehead; and there are occasions
of peculiar humiliation which require the profound prostration of the sashtangam, or abasement
of the eight members, wherein the suppliant extends himself face downward on the earth, with
palms joined above his head.

If Asirvadam--having concluded a visit in which he has deferentially reminded me of the peculiar
privilege I enjoy in being admitted to social converse with so select a being--is about to
withdraw the light of his presence, he retires backward, with many humbly gracious salaams.
If, on the other hand, I have had the honor to be his distinguished guest at his garden-house,
and am in the act of taking my leave, he patronizes me to the gate with elaborate obsequiousness,
that would be tedious, if it were not so graceful, so comfortable, so gallantly vainglorious.
He shows the way by following, and spares me the indignity of seeing his back by never taking
his eyes from mine. He knows what is due to his accomplished friend, the Sahib, who is learned
in the four Yankee Vedas; as to what is due to Asirvadam the Brahmin, no man knoweth the beginning
or the end of that.

When Asirvadam crosses my threshold, he leaves his slippers at the door. I am flattered by
the act into a self-appreciative complacency, until I discover that he thereby simply puts
me on a level with his cow. When he converses with me, he keeps respectful distance, and gracefully
averts from me the annoyance of his breath by holding his hand before his mouth. I inwardly
applaud his refined breeding, forgetting that I am a Pariah of Pariahs, whose soul, if I have
one, the incense of his holy lungs might save alive,--forgetting that he is one to whose very
footprint the Soodra salaams, alighting from his palanquin,--to whose shadow poor Chakili,
the cobbler, abandons the broad highway,--the feared of gods, hated of giants, mistrusted of
men, and adored of himself,--Asirvadam the Brahmin.

"They, the Brahmin Asirvadam, to him, Phaldasana, who is obedient, who is true, who has every
faithful quality, who knows how to serve with cheerfulness, to submit in silence, who by the
excellent services he renders the Brahmins has become like unto the stone Chintamani, the bringer
of good, who by the number and variety and acceptableness of his gifts shall attain, without
further trials, to the paradise of Indra: Asirvadam!

"The year Vikarj, the tenth of the month Phalguna: we are at Benares in good health; bring
us word of thine. It shall be thy privilege to make sashtangam at the feet--which are the true
lilies of Nilufar-- of us the Lord Brahmin, who are endowed with all the virtues and all the
sciences, who are great as Mount Meru, to whom belongs illustrious knowledge of the four Vedas,
the splendor of whose beneficence is as the noon-flood of the sun, who are renowned throughout
the fourteen worlds, whom the fourteen worlds admire.

"Having received with both hands that which we have abased ourself by writing to thee, and
having kissed it and set it on thy head, thou wilt read with profound attention and execute
with grateful alacrity the orders it contains, without swerving from the strict letter of them,
the breadth of a grain of sesamum. Having hastened to us, as thou art blessed in being bidden,
thou shalt wait in our presence, keeping thy distance, thy hands joined, thy mouth closed,
thine eyes cast down,--thou who art as though thou wert not,--until we shall vouchsafe to perceive
thee. And when thou hast obtained our leave, then, and not sooner, shalt thou make sashtangam
at our blessed feet, which are the pure flowers of Nilufar, and with many lowly kisses shalt
lay down before them thy unworthy offering,--ten rupees, as thou knowest,--more, if thou art
wise,--less, if thou darest.

"This is all we have to say to thee. Asirvadam!"

In the epistolary style of Asirvadam the Brahmin we are at a loss which to admire most,--the
flowers or the force, the modesty or the magnificence.

Among the cloistral cells of the women's quarter, which surround the inner court of Asirvadam's
domestic establishment, is a dark and narrow chamber which is the domain of woman's rights.
It is called "the Room of Anger," because, when the wife of the bosom has been tempted by inveigling
box-wallahs with a love of a pink coortee, or a pair of chased bangles, "such darlings, and
so cheap," and has conceived a longing for the same, her way is, without a word beforehand,
to go shut herself up in the Room of Anger, and pout and sulk till she gets them; and seeing
that the wife of the bosom is also the pure concocter of the Brahminical curry and server of
the Brahminical rice, that she is the goddess of the sacred kitchen and high-priestess of pots
and pans, it is easy to see that her success is certain. Poor little brown fool! that twelve
feet square of curious custom is all, of the world-wide realm of beauty and caprice, that she
can call her own.

