                     LOTT CARY
             Born a slave in Virginia,
                       1780,
       Removed from Richmond to Africa, as a
            Missionary and Colonist,
                       1821,
     Was Pastor of the First Baptist Church,
      and an original settler and defender
           of the Colony at Monrovia.
         Died Acting Governor of Liberia
                 Nov. 10th, 1828.
   His life was the progressive development of an
     able intellect and firm benevolent heart,
              under the influence of
     Freedom and an enlightened Christianity;
  and affords the amplest evidence of the capacity
   of his race to fill with dignity and usefulness
 the highest ecclesiastical and political stations.
     Of a truth God is no respecter of persons,
   But hath made of one blood all nations of men.

On the reverse--

  Lott Gary's self-denying, self-sacrificing labors,
    as a self-taught Physician, as a Missionary and
          Pastor of a Church, and finally as
               Governor of the Colony,
  have inscribed his name indelibly on the page of history,
  not only as one of Nature's Noblemen, but as an eminent
     Philanthropist and Missionary of Jesus Christ.

        'Aye, call it holy ground,
        The place where first they trod;
        They sought what here they found,
        Freedom to worship God.'"

That is, indeed, a remarkable utterance, coming from the Southern Baptist Missionary Convention,
in the year 1851.

EARLY NEGRO EDUCATION IN WEST VIRGINIA

The early education of the Negro in West Virginia falls in three periods.[1] During the first
period, it was largely restricted to such efforts as benevolent whites were disposed to make
in behalf of those Negroes who had served them acceptably as slaves. This period, therefore,
antedates the emancipation of the Negroes. Because of the scarcity of the slave population
of Western Virginia, the 14,000 slaves scattered among the mountainous counties came into helpful
contact with their masters, among whom the institution never lost its patriarchal aspect. Although
it was both unlawful and in some parts of West Virginia unpopular to instruct Negroes, these
masters, a law unto themselves, undertook to impart to these bondmen some modicum of knowledge.
Upon the actual emancipation in 1865, when all restraint in this respect was abrogated, benevolent
white persons, moved with compassion because of the benighted condition of Negroes, volunteered
to offer them instruction. The first teachers of the Negroes in West Virginia, then, were white
persons. The Negroes of Jefferson, Greenbrier, Monroe, Summers, Kanawha, Mason, and Wood counties
still point with pride to these white friends, who by their indefatigable work as teachers
blazed the way in a field which to Negroes had been forbidden.

During the next period there came into these same parts the Union soldier, followed and sometimes
accompanied by the missionary teachers sent out by the Freedmen's Relief Commissions of the
North and by the Freedmen's Bureau. The efforts of the Union soldier could not be crowned with
signal success for the reason that they were sporadic and this volunteer was not in every case
well prepared for such service. The greatest impetus was given the cause when missionary teachers
appeared in the State. Having the spirit of sacrifice which characterized the apostles of old,
they endured the hardships resulting from social proscription and crude environment. With the
funds which they secured from the agencies which they represented and which they could raise
among the poor freedmen and their few sympathetic white friends, these teachers of the new
day built or rented shanty-like school-houses in which they proclaimed the power of education
as the great leverage by which the recently emancipated race could toil up to a position of
recognition in this republic. The educational achievements of this class of teachers were significant,
not so much because of the actual instruction given, but rather on account of the inspiration
which set the whole body of Negroes throughout the State thinking and working to secure to
themselves every facility for education vouchsafed to the most highly favored element of our
population.

The third period in the early education of Negroes in West Virginia was reached when these
pioneer teachers had wrought well enough to enable the Negroes to help themselves. Because
of the rapid development of this industrial State and the consequent influx of Negroes from
other commonwealths, however, the number of Negro teachers produced on the ground proved inadequate
to the demand for instructors among the increasing and expanding Negro population of West Virginia.
There went out to the other States the call for help, which was answered largely by workers
from Virginia, Maryland, and Ohio. Virginia did not have many workers to spare, but from Baltimore,
where, because of the liberal attitude of the whites toward the education of Negroes prior
to the Civil War, a considerable group of Negroes had been trained, came a much larger number
of volunteers. From Ohio, however, came as many as were obtained from both Virginia and Maryland,
for the reason that, although the Negroes were early permitted to attend school in Ohio, race
prejudice had not sufficiently diminished to permit them to instruct white persons in public
schools. Looking out for a new field, their eyes quickly fell on the waiting harvest across
the Ohio in West Virginia. Some of these workers from adjacent States, moreover, served the
people not only as teachers but also as ministers of the gospel. They were largely instrumental
in establishing practically all of the Methodist and Baptist churches in the State, and while
they taught school during the week, they inspired and edified their congregations on Sunday.

The beginning of the education of the Negroes in West Virginia at public expense was delayed
inasmuch as its first constitution, although it made provisions for free schools, did not extend
the facilities of the same to the freedmen. In the report of the State Superintendent of Public
Schools in 1864, therefore, he complained that the Negroes had been too long and too mercilessly
deprived of this privilege. "I regret to report," said he, "that there are not schools for
the children of this portion of our citizens; as the law stands I fear they will be compelled
to remain in ignorance. I commend them to the favorable notice of the legislature."[2]

In 1866, therefore, the legislature enacted a law providing for the establishing of public
schools for Negroes between the ages of six and twenty-one years. These schools had to maintain
an average attendance of sixteen pupils or be closed. As Negro communities were not very large
and the number of such children small, some of them scattered throughout the State were denied
the opportunity to acquire an education. This law, therefore, was amended in 1867 so as to
authorize local boards of education to establish a school whenever there were more than fifteen
Negro children between the ages of six and twenty-one.[3]

The attitude of the State approved separation of the two races in the schools, but the first
two laws bearing on Negro schools did not make this point clear. Upon revising the constitution
in 1872, therefore, it was specifically provided that whites and blacks should not be taught
in the same school.[4] Thereafter, however, the whites and blacks sometimes used the same school-houses.
As the term consisted of only four months of twenty-two school days each, the whites would
open school in September and vacate by Christmas, when the Negroes would take charge.

No further changes were made in the school law until 1899, when it was amended to the effect
that the trustees in certain districts should establish one or more primary schools for Negro
children between the ages of six and twenty-one years, and that said members of boards of education
should establish such Negro schools whenever there were at least ten Negro pupils who resided
in their district, and for a smaller number, if it were possible to do so.[5] This gave impetus
to the movement for more intensive education among Negroes throughout their communities. Often
Negro children in groups of only four or five were thus trained in the backward districts,
where they received sufficient inspiration to come to larger schools for more systematic training.

THE FIRST EFFORTS IN NORTHERN WEST VIRGINIA

Parkersburg enjoys the distinction of having established in this State the first school for
Negroes supported by private funds. Having a desire to provide for their children the facilities
of education long since denied to members of their race, a group of progressive Negroes met
in Parkersburg in January, 1862, to translate their idea into action. Among these persons were
Robert Thomas, Lafayette Wilson, William Sargent, R. W. Simmons, Charles Hicks, William Smith,
and Matthew Thomas. They organized a board, which adopted a constitution and by-laws by which
they were to be governed in carrying out this plan. They then proceeded to establish a subscription
school requiring a tuition fee of one dollar a month of those who were able to pay; but poorer
children were admitted free of charge. At this time there was a certain stigma attached to
the idea of educating one's children at the expense of others or at the expense of the commonwealth.
Persons able to pay for the instruction of their children were, therefore, willing to do so
that they might not have a reputation for dependency or delinquency.[6]

The teachers first employed in Parkersburg were Sarah Trotter and Pocahontas Simmons, persons
of color and Rev. S. E. Colburn, a white man. The number of pupils enrolled in the first year
approached forty. To encourage Negroes in that city to avail themselves of their opportunity
for their enlightenment, these teachers moved among the people from time to time, pointing
out the necessity for more extensive preparation to discharge the functions of citizenship
then devolving upon Negroes in their new State of freedom after the Civil War.[7]

Parkersburg enjoys also the distinction of having established the first free school for Negroes
in the South. The work of the school organization of 1862 had been so well done that it was
easily possible to interest school officials in the extension of school privileges to Negroes.
The Parkersburg Weekly Times of June 7, 1866, carried a notice to the effect that the first
public free school for the Negro children of the city of Parkersburg, West Virginia, had been
opened in the school ward lately removed. "All colored children over six years of age and under
twenty-one, as the law directs," continued the editor, "are at liberty to attend and are requested
to do so." Rev. S. E. Colburn was the teacher. The private school then came to an end.[8]

It does not appear that the Reverend Mr. Colburn remained for a long time in this school, for
at the close of the session in 1866 we have a record of an exhibition in Bank Hall under the
charge of T. J. Ferguson. Ferguson was a versatile character among the Negroes at that time,
participating extensively in politics during the reconstruction period, and contending for
the enlargement of freedom and opportunity for their race. The next man of consequence after
Ferguson was J. L. Camp, who served the system for eleven years. He passed among his people
as a man of high character, and is remembered today as one of the most successful and inspiring
workers to toil among the lowly in West Virginia. The Negro schools could then be turned over
to teachers of the race who, having availed themselves of the opportunities for education,
had become equipped for service among their own people. With the further organization of the
public school system of Parkersburg, the Negro school was brought under the direction of the
local superintendent of schools and given the same sort of instruction and inspection as that
provided for the white schools. In the course of time the work developed from a primary into
an intermediate and then into a grammar school.

Parkersburg is unique again, moreover, in having the first high school for Negroes in the State.
This advanced phase of public school work was added in 1885, and the first class was graduated
in 1887. For a number of years the Negro schools were housed in a frame building of two rooms,
which was somewhat enlarged in 1883. This, moreover, has been followed by the erection of a
brick structure with the modern conveniences for public schools, facilitating especially high
school instruction, which under former conditions was handicapped. A new building known as
the Sumner High School was constructed there in 1886, and A. W. Pegues, a graduate of the Richmond
Institute, was made its first principal. He showed himself a studious man of intellectual bearing,
but after serving in Parkersburg one year he resigned to accept a chair in Shaw University
in North Carolina. He has since been made the head of the Deaf and Dumb Asylum of that State.[9]

Following Professor Pegues came T. D. Scott, who served in this high school five years, reorganizing
the work and enlarging the curriculum. When he resigned in 1892 he became an instructor in
natural science at Wilberforce University, of which he was an alumnus. Carter Harrison Barnett,
a graduate of Dennison University, became principal in 1892 and served one year. Then came
John Rupert Jefferson, who took charge of the institution in 1893, a position which he has
successfully filled until the present time with the exception of one year when he was supplanted
by Mr. B. S. Jackson, an alumnus of Howard University, who at the close of his first year's
service gave way to Mr. Jefferson.[10]

Clarksburg followed in the wake of Parkersburg and soon bestirred itself in the direction of
the education of Negro youth. The first school was established there in 1867, with an enrolment
of thirty pupils under the direction of Miss Joe Gee. For her time she was well-prepared woman,
using up-to-date methods, and was very successful in the work there for two and one-half years,
at the expiration of which she married. Her successful work was due in no small measure to
the cooperation of Mrs. Mary Rector, Mrs. Phyllis Henderson, Mr. Fred Siren, Jr., and Mrs.
Harriet Beckwith. They did not own the school property, but conducted the work in a one-room
ramshackled structure. Another group of ambitious Negroes established a school at Glen Falls,
in the same county, in 1872, with Noe Johnson as the teacher.

Steps were soon taken to provide better educational facilities for Negroes in Clarksburg. On
July 15, 1868, the Board of Education of that city accepted a bid of $1,147 to erect a one-story
brick building to be used as a Negro school-house. This structure was completed and occupied
by the end of the school year 1870. After the school had been better housed, the work was professionally
organized and thereafter intelligently supervised to standardize instruction.

In the beginning of this new day the schools were successful in having a number of popular
principals to serve them efficiently. Among these may be mentioned Charles Ankrum, a pioneer
teacher, who was principal of the school from 1870 to 1873, J. A. Riley, a man of the same
type serving from 1873-1874, G. F. Jones, a man of little more preparation than that of his
predecessors, from 1874 to 1876, W. B. Jones, an honest worker, from 1876-1878, and M. W. Grayson,
who served the system well from 1878 to 1889, doing much to lay the foundation upon which others
built thereafter.[11]

The first Negro principal at Clarksburg, with extensive preparation as judged by the standards
of today, was J. S. Williams, a graduate of Morgan College, who was the head of this school
from 1889 to 1891. Mr. C. W. Boyd, a normal school graduate of Wilberforce University, served
the system one year, that is, from 1891 to 1892, after which he became a teacher in the Charleston
Negro Public Schools of which he is now the head. Then came Mr. Sherman H. Guss, the first
Negro to receive a degree from Ohio State University. He made a special study of the needs
of the school, forcefully presented them to the educational authorities, enlarged the school's
facilities, and developed there a high school which ranks today as one of the best in the State.
In 1901 Mr. Guss resigned to become instructor in Latin at the West Virginia Colored Institute,
where he is still employed. He was followed by J. W. Robinson, a man of liberal and specialized
education, who endeavored to maintain a high standard and to extend the influence of the Negro
schools, adding much to develop an intellectual atmosphere through the enlargement of the school
library and other accessories. After toiling in this city for a number of years he taught at
St. Albans. He then accepted the principalship of the high school at Northfork, during his
incumbency of which he has served as a member of the Advisory Council to the State Board of
Education of West Virginia.

Weston did not lag far behind the other towns in making some provision for the education of
Negroes. During the early years immediately following the Civil War, a white man of philanthropic
tendency named Benjamin Owens taught a Negro school in an old church located not far from the
head of Main Street extended in Weston. A local historian believes also that one Doctor Gordon's
daughter taught in the same school. It does not appear that Owens was a man of exceptional
intellectual attainment, but he had well mastered the fundamentals of education when working
in the printing office of Horace Greeley in New York, where he learned to manifest interest
in the man far down, and to make sacrifices for his cause. His work was so successful that
the school was later established as a public institution supported by the State.

The next pioneer to lend a helping hand was George Jones who, after serving the Negroes in
Weston as a teacher for a number of years, abandoned this field for a much larger work as a
minister. Then came Misses Hattie Hood, Grace Rigsby, and Anna Wells, who taught in this school
one or two years each. There appeared next W. P. Crump, who is referred to as the first Negro
teacher of exceptional ability to toil in Weston. He did much to develop the school and exerted
a beneficent influence upon the people. After serving them as instructor for a few years, he
abandoned the work for a more lucrative employment elsewhere. The next teacher of importance
was Mr. Frank Jefferson who also toiled successfully in these parts. Inasmuch as the salary
at that time was unusually low compared with the compensation offered in other parts, he eventually
gave up that work for other service.[12]

About 1898 there came Mr. L. O. Wilson, a man of scholarship, who later became a leader of
power and influence throughout the State of West Virginia. He reorganized the school, improved
the methods of instruction, and supplied it with a library. He endeared himself to the people
here, as he did wherever he was known; and, although he was several times offered higher salaries
elsewhere, he preferred to toil among the people of Weston for less compensation. The results
which he obtained, while laboring among these people, stand as a monument justifying the sacrifice
which he made to serve them.[13]

The next school of importance in this part of the State was that of Piedmont, since then designated
as the Howard School. Educational efforts began in this section about six years after the Civil
War. Prior to that time the few Negroes coming into Piedmont were too migratory to necessitate
any outlay for their education. Some efforts were made to secure their education through private
instruction in the fundamentals, and a little progress therein was noted. Years later there
came such substantial friends of education as the Barneses, the Masons, the Thomases, the Biases,
and the Redmons. There was no organized effort to establish a real public school, however,
until the year 1877, when one John Brown, being influential with one Mr. Hyde, then President
of the Board of Education, induced him to provide a school-room and hire a teacher for the
instruction of the Negroes. The following persons, since known as Mrs. Emma Stewart (Mason),
Miss Mary Thomas, Mr. John Brown, Jr., Miss Alice Brown, and Mr. Harry Bias, presented themselves
as the first students of this school. One Mr. Ross, a white man, was the first instructor.
The next teacher of this school was a white man, and he was followed by a member of his own race.

The early history of this school published in 1919 states that the attendance was regular and
that after three years of conducting a private school the board of education formally established
this as a public school in the year 1880, with Mrs. Steiglar, a white woman, as instructor.
The school was still held in the private building which has since been occupied by the Williams,
Redmon, and Taylor families of that vicinity. After this school was conducted thus for about
ten years, there came a change which marked the epoch of progress in education in Piedmont.
This was the time when the white teachers were exchanged for those of Negro blood, who having
more interest in their race, and treating the pupils with more sympathy, achieved much greater
success than their predecessors. This school has since been much developed under the direction
of Mr. H. W. Hopewell and Miss M. Brooks.[14]

The early schools of Shepherdstown, Martinsburg, Harper's Ferry, and other places nearby in
West Virginia were in the beginning largely private, and even when established as public schools
accomplished little more than their predecessors until they received an impetus from without.
The first stimulus came from Miss Mann, a niece of the great educator, Horace Mann. She was
sent by the Christian Commission to Bolivar, near Harper's Ferry, to open a Negro school, which
in spite of militant race prejudice she maintained a year.[15] Then came the establishment
of Storer College by that philanthropic worker for the uplift of the Negro race, Rev. Nathan
C. Brackett, a graduate of Dartmouth College, who had during the last year of the Civil War
been attached to the Christian Mission of Sheridan's army in Virginia. Fortunately the agents
of the Freedmen's Bureau in charge of the educational work among Negroes designated him as
the superintendent of such schools to be established in the Shenandoah Valley. While he was
thus organizing and directing the education of the Negroes in this section, Mr. John Storer,
of Sanford, Maine, expressed a desire to set aside a fund of ten thousand dollars for the establishment
of an institution of education for the freedmen on the condition that an equal amount should
be raised by other persons within a specified period. As there was an increasing interest in
the uplift of the freedmen throughout the country at this time, it was an easy matter to meet
this condition with a similar contribution from another quarter. The additional funds came
largely from the Free Baptists, in the principles of which this institution had its setting
when established.

The work was begun, by special arrangement with the Federal agents, in dilapidated houses recently
abandoned by the Union troops at Harper's Ferry. With the cooperation of friends the buildings
were secured through the influence of James A. Garfield, then a member of Congress, and William
Fessenden, then United States Senator from Maine. Mr. and Mrs. Brackett opened this school
in October, 1867, with nineteen earnest students. Since then it has become a power for good,
a factor in the development of actual Christian manhood and womanhood. For a number of years
it was the only graded school for Negroes in the State of West Virginia, and had to supply
many of the first teachers and ministers in West Virginia and even in the adjacent portions
of Maryland and Virginia. The towns nearby caught the spirit of the uplift of the Negro from
what was being done for the race in Storer College. This institution, of course, had its opposition;
but wherever there was a helpful attitude toward the Negro, the work which it was doing in
spite of its difficulties stood out as a shining light.[16]

Many of the early teachers of Storer College spent a part of their time working among Negroes
in nearby communities. Mrs. Annie Dudley, a white woman connected with that institution, taught
the first school at Shepherdstown. She had about twenty-five students and conducted a night
and a day school. She was a well-educated, sympathetic woman who did much to lay the foundation
for the Negro public school which was established there in 1872. The next popular teacher in
the Eastern Panhandle was William B. Evans, who successfully taught in Shepherdstown, Keyser,
Martinsburg, and Bolivar for forty-two years. His wife, Mrs. M. E. L. Evans, after beginning
in Virginia, taught ten years at Storer, Summit Point, Smithfield, and Bolivar. William Arter
taught thirty-two years at Kabletown, doing excellent work. The most prominent teacher that
Shepherdstown had was John H. Hill. He graded the work of the school and endeavored to standardize
instruction. He is still remembered in that community for the efficient work which he did.
He was finally succeeded by Alexander Freeman when Mr. Hill became an instructor in the West
Virginia Colored Institute, of which he later became principal.

About the same time the influence of Storer College was felt in Charles Town, the county seat
of Jefferson County, where there was another settlement of Negroes. The first teacher of whom
we have a record was one Enos Wilson, a Negro. He was a man of fair preparation through self-instruction.
He had much enthusiasm in his work, exerted an influence for good, and won the respect of his
people. In achieving his success he had the cooperation of Mr. William Hill, the grandfather
of J. H. Hill. Although not well informed himself, William Hill believed in education and religion,
and supported all uplift movements then taking shape among the Negroes.

Following Enos Wilson, who later became an instructor in another field, came L. L. Page, who
building upon the foundation made by his predecessors rendered unusually valuable service.
Like his predecessor he was a very good man and an enthusiastic worker. The people waited upon
his words, answered his summons to social service, and supported him in his efforts to promote
their general welfare. This is evidenced by the fact that he served his community acceptably
about twenty-five years. He was succeeded by Phillip Jackson, who found the school sufficiently
well developed to necessitate the employment of three teachers.

Not far away from this point Mrs. Emma Hart Brady opened a large school at Kearneysville, in
Jefferson County, in 1869. She was a popular teacher for that day, used modern methods, and
successfully instructed 80 or 90 students there for two terms. This school today, as it was
then, is overcrowded and in need of better facilities.[16a]

Speaking generally, however, one must say that the education of the Negro in the Eastern Panhandle
of West Virginia today is, after all, much more backward than in other parts. A good example
of noble effort in behalf of the Negro was given, and the spirit with which workers should
address themselves to the task was furnished by the founders and graduates of Storer College,
but they were not supported by public sentiment among the whites of that section. Glancing
at the map of West Virginia, one can readily see that the Eastern Panhandle is geographically
a part of Maryland and Virginia, states which have not as yet been converted to the wisdom
of making appropriations to Negro education equally as large as those providing for the education
of the whites. The ardor of the successors of these early enthusiastic workers in that section,
therefore, was dampened, and the results which they obtained fell far short of the aspiration
of these pioneers to remake these freedmen that they might live as the citizens of a free republic.

A mere glance at the Negro schools in the northern section will show that these beginnings
were confined to the Baltimore and Ohio railroad and its branches. There were not many Negroes
living in the other northern counties of the State. In 1878, Moundsville in Marshall County
welcomed a Negro woman, of Smithfield, Ohio, who taught its Negro public school. She had a
fair preparation and rendered valuable service with the cooperation of such patrons as Mrs.
Rollen, William Love, and Thomas McCoy. Because of the small Negro population in this town,
however, this school has not rapidly developed, although the work of the teachers employed
there has been efficient, as has been evidenced by their well-prepared eighth-grade students
who have done excellently in more advanced schools.[17]

A little farther north, in Wheeling in Ohio County, Negro education had a better opportunity.
Wheeling is geographically a part of Pennsylvania, and its attitude toward education has been
determined to a large extent by the impetus given the cause in that progressive commonwealth.
The spirit of fairness in dealing with the man far down in urban communities nearby, moreover,
has been reflected to a certain extent in the policies of the educational authorities of Wheeling
in dealing with the Negro. At an early date the Negroes of Wheeling were provided with elementary
schools. Referring to the increasing interest in Negro education in 1866, State Superintendent
White said: "An excellent school has been started in Wheeling and a few are reported in other
places. The school-house in Wheeling cost about $2500. The school is conducted by a teacher
of their own color and the behavior and scholarship of the pupils are worthy of imitation."

Here, as in the case of most Negro schools near the Ohio River and even in the central portion
of the State, their first teachers came from Ohio, where they had the opportunity to attend
the high schools and even colleges of high order, although they were not able to over-ride
the race prejudice which barred them from the teaching corps in that free State. In Wheeling,
moreover, the salaries paid were much more inviting than in many towns of West Virginia, and
that city could easily employ the best equipped Negro teachers, who in the beginning came largely
from Ohio.

The Wheeling school, then, fortunate in having the service of such teachers, developed about
as rapidly as possible under the circumstances of a limited Negro population; for Wheeling
is not in a Negro section, and the industrial aspect of the city not being inviting to Negro
workers, the population of color did not rapidly increase. Because of the small enumeration
thereby resulting, more extensive facilities could not be provided even when the board of education
was favorably inclined. In 1897, however, when the pupils of all of the grades reached about
three hundred, the city established the Lincoln High School, which had its development under
the late J. McHenry Jones. He called to his assistance well-equipped teachers and succeeded
in offering to the Negroes of that city practically the same course of study taught in the
white high school, though at times some classes were too small to justify instruction in certain
phases of specialized work.[18]

BLAZING THE WAY IN THE CENTRAL COUNTIES

A more extensive movement for the education of the Negroes was taking place during these years
in the central part of West Virginia, following the line of the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway
and the New and Kanawha Rivers. This work did not arouse equal interest in all of the counties
along these routes, but in Greenbrier, Monroe, Summers, Fayette, Kanawha, Cabell and Mason
Counties, reached a point of development deserving mention. It can be readily observed that
this progress in education resulted largely from the early settlements of Negroes in the east-central
counties of the State and from the influx of Negro laborers into the New and the Kanawha valleys
to work on the salt works, and later from the migration of Negroes to the coal mines opened
along the Chesapeake and Ohio and the Kanawha and Michigan Railroads. Negro schools, with such
few exceptions as those at Marshes, in Raleigh County, at Madison and Uneeda in Boone County,
at Red Sulphur Springs in Monroe County, and at Fayetteville in Fayette County, were unsuccessful
when removed from those important thoroughfares.

The earliest teaching of the Negroes in the east-central counties of the State came as a result
of the sympathetic interests of benevolent slaveholders who, living in a part of a State with
a natural endowment unfavorable to the institution of slavery, failed as a whole to follow
the fortunes of the slaveholders near the Atlantic Coast, and, hoping to see the ultimate extinction
of the institution by gradual emancipation, gave the Negroes an opportunity for such preparation
as they would need to discharge the functions of citizenship. Immediately after the War, when
there was no public opinion proscribing such benevolence, sympathetic white persons privately
instructed Negroes here and there. Such was the case at White Sulphur, long since known as
a summer resort, attracting from afar persons of aristocratic bearing who, coming into contact
with the Negro servants whom the resort required, not only proved helpful to them by way of
contact, but gave them assistance in realizing limited educational aspirations. The private
school in White Sulphur finally gave place to one established by the district. It had the support
of the best white citizens of the community and was maintained largely by the enterprise of
progressive Negroes seeking to provide for their children all facilities for education offered
elsewhere. About the same time, that is, in 1866, the Freedmen's Bureau had a school in Lewisburg,
under the direction of one Miss Woodford. After serving the people well for a year or two,
this institution gave place to a public school.[19]

In Ronceverte, where the Negro population increased more rapidly and where these persons of
color made more economic progress than in the case of White Sulphur, Negro education had a
better chance. After passing through the stage of such private instruction as white persons
interested in the man far down felt disposed to give, an actual school was opened in the early
seventies with an enrolment of thirty pupils. The first teacher was Mr. Robert Keys of Charleston,
West Virginia. Mr. Keys was well prepared for that time and served there creditably for two
years. Mr. Keys had the support of such well-known families as the Crumps, the Capertons, the
Gees, the Petersons, the Eldridges, the Browns, the Eubanks, the Williamses and the Hayneses.
There served also Miss Carr of Harrisonburg, Virginia, and Benjamin Perkins of Lewisburg, West
Virginia. Mr. Robert D. Riddle was also one of the early instructors. Mr. Riddle retired from
teaching several years ago, but is still living in the city of Ronceverte, where he has distinguished
himself as a successful truck farmer. Some years later Rev. R. D. W. Meadows, who has for a
number of years served as a missionary in West Virginia, labored as a teacher in these parts,
leaving a favorable impression on the system. The school was first taught in the small one-room
house privately owned. When it increased in later years, it was found necessary to divide it
so as to teach a part of the school in the Negro Baptist Church until the larger building could
be provided. It is now a well-graded and junior high school with many modern facilities.[20]

Union, in Monroe County, was not unlike the other large settlements of this section having
considerable Negro population. There was at times even as early as 1855 a healthy sentiment
in favor of the improvement of the few slaves there, and this was not lost after the Civil
War had ended. So general was the interest in behalf of the Negroes that this proved to be
a most favorable community. Union was one of the first towns in that section to establish a
public school for Negroes. At first there was some difficulty in having well prepared Negro
teachers in the county itself; for one John Didell, a white man, was the first teacher of the
public school. He had the support of such respectable Negroes as Julius Smalls, Andrew Bailey,
Malinda Campbell, Henry Campbell, James Clair, Christopher Whitlock, and Charles Campbell.
Two of the products of this school are Miss Charlotte Campbell and Bishop M. W. Clair of the
Methodist Episcopal Church.[21] Among those who came in later to stimulate the first efforts
of the teachers were Mrs. Leota Moss Claire, now a resident of Charleston, West Virginia, and
J. M. Riddle who, after having taught at Sinks Grove in Monroe county and preached for several
years in various parts of West Virginia, engaged in the ministry in Ohio and later went to
California, where he is now serving as a State Missionary of the Baptist church.

In Summers County, the large settlement of Negroes was at Hinton. This place had a Negro school
of fifteen pupils as early as 1878, with one T. J. Trinkle as instructor. He was a man of limited
education, but prepared to help those who had not made advancement in the fundamentals. What
he lacked in education he made up in moral influence, and his career is still remembered as
a success. The cause of education among Negroes of Hinton was fearlessly supported by E. J.
Pack and C. H. Payne, once a teacher in a rural district in this county himself and later a
minister and a public servant in this country and abroad. The school in Hinton began in a one-room
structure rented for four months, the length of the school term. Teachers were paid at the
rate of $15, $25 and $30 a month for third, second, and first grade certificates respectively.
It has recently developed into a well-graded school having a junior high school running nine
months, with teachers paid at the rate of a combined monthly salary of $600.

The Negro public school experienced a later development in Fayette County than in the case
of the counties nearer to the eastern border of the State or nearer the Ohio River; for, unlike
those parts which had a larger number of slaves than the central and northern counties, Fayette
County never before the eighties had Negro groups in sufficiently large numbers to warrant
an outlay in education at public expense. The beginning of Negro education in this county was
consequent upon the migration of Negroes to the coal fields. Many of them were interested in
education and became its best patrons. Among those were Samuel Morgan, A. W. Slaughter, J.
H. Shelton, J. D. Shelton, Aaron Chiles, Thomas Chiles, Randal Booker, Thomas Bradley, Oliver
Jones, Ballard Rotan, Anderson Rotan, R. J. Perkins, Aaron Calloway, Mat Jordan, Henry Robinson,
S. H. Hughes, Wellington Henderson, John Carrington, James Caul, George Moss, and Pleasant Thomas.

The first school established in Fayette County was that at Montgomery, in 1879. It was opened
by H. B. Rice, a pioneer teacher in Kanawha Valley who had completed his education at Hampton
Institute. For three years Mr. Rice taught in one room of the home of Thomas H. Norman, an
intelligent and progressive Negro who, realizing the importance of education as a leverage
in the uplift of his people, early made sacrifices for the establishment of this school. The
school was then taught in a shanty. Inasmuch as at the end of one year, that is, by 1883, the
Negro population had rapidly increased, this uncomfortable building was very much over-crowded
and the school had to be divided so that part of it could be taught in the Baptist church nearby,
until it secured better quarters. Among the teachers who toiled in this district were Mrs.
A. G. Payne, Mrs. Anna Banks, Misses Sadie Howell, Julia Norman, Annie Parker, M. E. Eubank,
Mrs. F. D. Railey, Mr. George Cuzzins, Mrs. M. A. W. Thompson, Miss L. O. Hopkins, Miss Lizzie
Meadows, Mr. J. W. Scott, Miss Rebecca I. Bullard, Miss Mattie Payne Trent, Mrs. Lola M. Lavender
Mack, Miss Nellie M. Lewis, Miss Ida M. King and Mr. H. H. Railey. The last mentioned not only
attained distinction as the principal of this school, but so impressed his constituents as
to be elected to the West Virginia Legislature.[22]

The impetus given to education at Montgomery was productive of desirable results in other towns
in Fayette County. The second Negro school to be established in Fayette County was that Quinnimont
in 1880. A storm of protest made the life of the teacher almost intolerable, although he was
a white man. The school-house had to be guarded, but Rev. M. S. G. Abbot taught it two years.
Then came Mr. R. D. Riddle, mentioned above in connection with the school at Ronceverte.[23]

At Eagle, not far from Montgomery, there settled groups of Negroes sufficiently large to necessitate
educational facilities for their children. A large one-room school followed and this had not
been established very long before it was necessary to employ two teachers. Among the prominent
laborers in this field were Mrs. Mary Wilson-Johnson and Mrs. A. G. Payne. This work experienced
most extensive growth under the direction of Miss A. L. Norman, Miss M. E. Shelton and Mr.
A. C. Page.

There soon followed schools at Fire Creek, Hawk's Nest, Stone Cliff, Nuttallburg, Sewell, Fayetteville,
and elsewhere in Fayette County. Prominent among the teachers serving in these towns were D.
W. Calloway, A. T. Calloway, Miss L. E. Perry, Mrs. Lizzie Davis, Miss Bertha Morton, Mr. James
Washington, Mrs. F. Donnelly Railey, Mrs. H. C. A. Washington, Mrs. J. B. Jordan-Campbell,
C. G. Woodson, and Mrs. E. M. Dandridge. These teachers did not generally serve a long period
in any one place, as there was a difference in salary in various districts and the best teachers
usually sought the most lucrative positions; and sometimes, in the battle for bread and butter,
the rather keen competition in certain districts led to the periodical dismissal of teachers
without justifiable cause.

To those mentioned above, however, is due the credit for the development of the Negro schools
in Fayette County. This is especially true of Mrs. E. M. Dandridge, who doubtless had a more
beneficent influence in Fayette County than any teacher of color who toiled there. She taught
for twenty-five years at Quinnimont, where she was not only a teacher but a moving spirit in
all things promoting the social, moral, and religious welfare of the Negroes of her own and
adjacent communities. She was fortunate in having a natural endowment superior to that of most
persons and enjoyed, moreover, educational advantages considered exceptional for most Negroes
of that day. She still lives to continue a noble work well begun and to complete a useful career
in the same county where she cast her lot years ago.

For almost a generation earlier than this, Negro education had been launched with much better
beginnings in the county of Kanawha. There were no free schools in West Virginia until 1866,
but as in the case of several other settlements in the State, private schools were conducted
for Negroes immediately after their emancipation. There had come into the county of Kanawha
Rev. F. C. James, an Ohio Negro, the father of C. H. James, the wealthy wholesale produce merchant
of Charleston. This pioneer was a man of fundamental education and unusual native ability.
He opened at Chapel Hollow, or Salines, two and one-half miles from Malden, in 1865, probably
the first Negro school in the Kanawha Valley. He thereafter taught elsewhere and later became
the founder of the First Baptist Church of Charleston. The following year Miss Lucy James from
Gallia County, Ohio, opened the first Negro school in Charleston. Among the first patrons were
Matthew Dillon, Lewis Rogers, Alexander Payne, Lewis Jones, Perry Harden, Julius Whiting, and
Harvey Morris. Mrs. Landonia Sims had charge of the school one year also. At this time Rev.
Charles O. Fisher, a Methodist Episcopal minister of Maryland, had a private and select school
which was later merged with the free public school. Between 1866 and 1869 Rev. J. W. Dansberry,
another Methodist Episcopal minister from Baltimore, Maryland, belonging as did Mr. Fisher
to the Washington Conference, served also as a teacher while preaching in this State. The Simpson
M. E. Church, their main charge, was being developed during these years and was in 1867 housed
in a comfortable building on Dickinson and Quarrier Streets. Mr. C. O. Fisher was a well-educated
man, but Mr. Dansberry depended largely on natural attainments.

Rev. I. V. Bryant, who has toiled for many years in the Ohio Valley as a Baptist minister,
started his public career as a teacher at Baker's Fort school, about two and one-half miles
from Charleston. Rev. Harvey Morris, another minister, opened a public school at Sissonsville
in 1873, Rev. J. C. Taylor another at Crown Hill in 1882, and not long thereafter this school
was attended by such distinguished persons as Mrs. M. A. W. Thompson and Dr. A. Clayton Powell
of New York City. This work in Kanawha County was accelerated too by the assistance from the
Freedmen's Bureau which sent to this section C. H. Howard, brother of Gen. O. O. Howard, the
head of the Freedmen's Bureau, to inspect the field, and later sent one Mr. Sharp to teach
in Charleston.[24]

One of the first schools in Kanawha County was organized at Malden. Immediately after the Civil
War this town had a much larger and more promising Negro population than the city of Charleston.
Many Negroes had been brought to Kanawha County, and after their freedom many others came to
labor in the salt works. This private school at Malden was conducted by Mr. William Davis,
the first teacher of Booker T. Washington, who a few years before had come from Halesford,
Virginia, to Malden.

Mr. Davis's career is more than interesting. He was born in Columbus, Ohio, November 27, 1848,
remained there until his thirteenth year, spending parts of the years 1861, 1862, 1863 in Chillicothe.
During these years he mastered the fundamentals of an English education. He moved back to Columbus
in the fall of 1863. On December 18th of that year Mr. Davis enlisted in the Union "Light Guard,"
called "Lincoln's Body Guard," at Columbus. He served in the army eighteen months and was discharged
at Camp Todd Barracks, Washington, D. C., June 24, 1865. He then returned to Columbus and after
remaining there about a month went to Cincinnati, from which he proceeded to run on a boat
from Gallipolis to Charleston for about a month.

About this time the people of Malden, under the wise guidance of Lewis Rice, a beloved pioneer
minister, better known among the early Negroes of the State as Father Rice because of his persistent
efforts in behalf of religion and education, had decided to establish a school for the education
of their children. Mr. William Davis thereupon abandoned his work on the boat and became the
teacher of this private school, established at Malden in the home of Father Rice, in 1865.
As the school had to be conducted in the very bed-room of this philanthropist, it was necessary
for him to take down his bed in the morning and bring in the benches, which would be replaced
in the evening by the bed in its turn. The school was next held in the same church thereafter
constructed, and finally in the schoolroom provided at public expense, as one of the schools
of the county.

About the only white person who seemed to give any encouragement to the education of Negroes
at Malden was General Lewis Ruffner. It seems, however, that his interest was not sufficient
to provide those facilities necessary to ease the burden of this pioneer teacher. When we think,
however, that out of this school came such useful teachers as William T. McKinney, H. B. Rice,
and one of the world's greatest educators, Booker T. Washington, we must conclude that it was
a success.

Mr. Davis's worth as a teacher rapidly extended through the Kanawha Valley. He was chosen by
the authorities of Charleston to take charge of their Negro schools in 1871, when it was just
a two-room affair. In this field, however, Mr. Davis had been preceded as mentioned above by
noble workers in behalf of the Negroes. Building upon the foundation which other Negroes had
laid, he soon had a school of four instead of two rooms, and before he ceased to be principal
it had increased to five, with a well-graded system, standardized instruction, and up-to-date
methods. His early assistants in this work were Charles P. Keys, P. B. Burbridge, Harry Payne,
James Bullard, and William T. McKinney.

Mr. Davis received some cooperation from a few white persons, the chief one of whom was Mr.
Edward Moore of Pennsylvania, the father of Spencer Moore, now a bookseller in the city of
Charleston. Mr. Edward Moore taught a select school for Negroes and helped the cause considerably.
Mr. Davis served about twenty-four years as principal, although he was a member of the teaching
staff for a much longer period, serving altogether forty-seven years.[25]

Because of the unsettled policy of the Charleston public schools they changed principals every
year or two, to the detriment of the system and progress of the student body. Rev. J. W. Dansbury
served for a while as principal, and H. B. Rice, who entered the service as an assistant in
1888, became principal some time later and served about four years. Mr. Davis, who had been
demoted to a subordinate position, was then reinstated, but not long thereafter came Mr. C.
W. Boyd, who had rendered valuable service in Clarksburg and had later found employment in
the public schools of Charleston. He succeeded Mr. Davis as principal. At the close of one
year, however, Mr. Rice was reinstated and served for a number of years, at the expiration
of which Mr. Boyd again became principal and remained in the position long enough to give some
stability to the procedure and plans of the system and to secure the confidence of the patrons
of the schools. Some of the valuable assistants serving during this period were Mr. William
B. Boss, Miss Blanche Jeffries, Mrs. Fannie Cobb Carter and Byrd Prillerman, whose career as
a teacher includes a period of short and valuable service in the Charleston public schools.[26]

At what is now Institute, in Union district, there was established in the fall of 1872 another
Negro school, opened on the subscription basis in the home of Mrs. Mollie Berry, née Cabell.
Mrs. Berry was the first teacher of this school. The building is occupied at present by a Mr.
James and owned now by Mrs. Berry's daughter, Mrs. Cornie Robinson. In the spring of 1873,
Mr. William Scott Brown, who had by marriage connected himself with the Cabell family, was
elected trustee in the Union district, and by his efforts a Jenny Lind one-room building, small
and creditably furnished, was erected on a lot purchased by the board of education from Mrs.
Cabell for twenty-five dollars, on the site now occupied by the family of Mr. Solomon Brown
of Institute. The trustees chose Mr. Samuel Cabell as the first Negro public school teacher
of the district. The method of qualifying as a teacher was purely perfunctory, as a license
to teach was easily obtained by nominal examination. The term was four months.[27] The line
of teachers from 1886 may be traced from records of the board of education of the district.
Short tenure of office for a few years seems to have been the rule until the recent years dating
from 1918. It is the opinion of Mr. W. A. Brown and others of the old system that the quality
of the local school has grown better. The establishment of the West Virginia Collegiate Institute
at this point is considered the greatest factor contributing to such development.[28]

The next school of consequence established on Kanawha River was the Langston School of Point
Pleasant, in Mason County. This institution was organized in 1867 by Eli Coleman, its first
teacher. He toiled for seven years in the one-room frame structure at the end of Sixth Street.
At the very beginning the enrolment was sixty-four, some of the students being adults. The
school continued as an ungraded establishment for a number of years, working against many handicaps,
until the independent district was established and provided better facilities. This school
then had a board of five trustees, three whites and two Negroes, and was incorporated into
the city system by the Board of Education and placed under the supervision of the Superintendent
of the Point Pleasant Public Schools.

Some of the early teachers following Mr. Coleman were J. H. Rickman, later principal of the
colored school in Middleport, Ohio, P. H. Williams, Mrs. Lillie Chambers, Florence Ghee, Fannie
Smith and Lida Fitch. In 1885 the school had grown sufficiently to justify the employment of
two teachers. These were then L. W. Johnson as principal and Miss Hattie C. Jordan as his assistant.
Mr. Johnson served until 1890 when he was succeeded by Miss Lola Freeman as principal with
Samuel Jordan as assistant for one year. The Board of Education then secured the services of
J. E. Campbell as principal. Under him the school moved into a five-story brick structure vacated
by a white school when better quarters for the latter had been provided. The Negro school was
then named the Langston Academy in honor of John Mercer Langston, a Negro congressman and public
official of wide reputation. Miss Iva Wilson of Gallipolis succeeded Mr. Campbell as principal,
with Miss Jordan as assistant. Later there came as principal Mr. F. C. Smith, A. W. Puller,
and Ralph W. White, and finally the efficient and scholarly Isaiah L. Scott, a promising youth
cut off before he had a chance to manifest his worth to the world.[29]

Somewhat later than this, another group of Negro schools developed in Cabell County, the first
and most important being in Guyandotte and Barboursville. These schools followed as a result
of employment of Negroes on the Chesapeake and Ohio railroad, terminating in the seventies
at the Ohio River, where it gave rise to the city of Huntington, West Virginia, laid out in
1870. Most of these Negroes, prominent among whom were James Woodson, Nelson Barnett, and W.
O. James, came from Virginia. The first school established near Huntington was opened in the
log house on Cemetery Hill, one and a half miles east of the town and a little west of Guyandotte.
The Negro school enumeration was so small that the two towns had to cooperate in maintaining
one school.

The teacher first employed was Mrs. Julia Jones, a lady who had most of the rudiments of education.
Some old citizens refer to James Liggins as the first teacher in this community. In this precarious
status of stinted support the school did not undergo any striking development during the first
years. Not until 1882, some years after the school had been removed to Huntington itself, was
there any notable change. The first impetus which marked an epoch in the development of this
school came with the employment of Mr. and Mrs. W. F. James, products of the Ohio school system.
They were for their time well-prepared teachers of foresight, who had the ability to arouse
interest and inspire the people. Mr. James at once entered upon the task of the thorough reorganization
of the school and by 1886 brought the institution to the rank of that of the grammar school,
beginning at the same time some advanced classes commonly taught in the high schools. He was
an earnest worker, willing to sacrifice everything for the good of the cause. While thus spending
his energy as a sacrifice for many he passed away respected by his pupils and honored by the
patrons of the school. His wife continued for a number of years thereafter to render the system
the same efficient service as the popular primary teacher upon which the success of the work
of the higher grades largely depended, until she passed away in 1899.

The school then had the services of Mr. Ramsey and Mr. J. B. Cabell who seemingly gave some
impetus to the forward movement. Another epoch in the history of the school was reached when
W. T. McKinney became principal in 1891. With the cooperation of the leading Negroes of the
city he succeeded in inducing the board of education to build on the corner of Sixteenth Street
and Eighth Avenue the Douglass High School, which in its first form, prior to the making of
certain additions, consisted of a well-built six-room school costing several thousand dollars.
Mr. McKinney added the high school course and in the year 1893 graduated the first class of
three. Following Mr. McKinney there served the system efficiently as principals C. H. Barnett
from 1890 to 1900, C. G. Woodson from 1900 to 1903, and R. P. Sims from 1903 to 1906. J. W.
Scott, who succeeded Mr. Sims, is today principal of this school, ranking throughout the State
as one of its foremost educators.

Following along the line of Wayne County there soon appeared a school at Ceredo and another
at Fort Gay, just across the river from Louisa, Kentucky. Under Mrs. Pogue, a woman of ambition
and efficiency, this school accomplished much good and exerted an influence throughout that
county. A number of students trained through the sixth, seventh, and eighth grades later attended
schools in other parts and made good records because of the thorough training they first received.
At Fort Gay in this same county, however, no such desirable results were achieved because of
the small Negro population, the inability to secure teachers for the small amount paid, and
the tendency on the part of local trustees there to change their teachers. Mrs. Cora Brooks
Smith, a graduate of the Ironton High School, who toiled there a number of years, and Miss
Susie Woodson, an alumnus of the Douglass High School of Huntington, West Virginia, who also
labored in the same field, should be given at least passing mention in any sketch setting forth
the achievements in education among the Negroes in Wayne County.

THE STRIVINGS IN SOUTHERN WEST VIRGINIA

In southern West Virginia there were at first few schools for Negroes, inasmuch as the small
Negro groups here and there did not warrant the outlay. What instruction such Negroes received
prior to 1888 was largely private. That year an epoch was marked in the development of the
southern portion of the State by the completion of the main line of the Norfolk and Western
Railroad, opening up one of the largest coal fields in the United States. As the discontented
Negroes of Virginia and North Carolina were eager for industrial opportunities in the mining
regions of the Appalachian Mountains, these coal fields attracted them in large numbers. Bluefield,
which developed in a few years from a barren field in 1888 to a town of almost ten thousand
by 1900, indicates how rapidly the population there increased. Other large centers of industry,
like Elkhorn, Northfork, Welch, and Keystone, soon became more than ordinary mining towns.

When these places had worn off the rough edges of frontier settlement and directed their attention
to economic and social welfare, they naturally clamored for education. The first school for
whites was established in Bluefield in 1889 and one for the Negroes, with Gordon Madson as
teacher, followed in 1890. Prominent among the pioneering teachers in Bluefield were Mr. A.
J. Smith and Mrs. L. O. McGhee, who began their work in a one-room log building in the suburbs
of the town. About the end of the nineties there were Negro schools in most of the important
mining towns along the Norfolk and Western Railroad between Bluefield and Williamson.

The Negro school in Bluefield had an interesting history. The school, of course, was poorly
equipped and the teachers were not then adequately paid, but they continued their work two
sessions of five months each. In the third year the school was moved to another town called
Cooperstown where it was housed in a two-room building more comfortable than the first structure,
but not a modern establishment. As it was situated in crowded quarters, the children had no
playground. Several years thereafter, the work was continued by Mr. Patterson and Mrs. E. O.
Smith. When, however, a large Negro population settled in North Bluefield it was necessary
to provide there a two-room building between them. In this school-house taught Mr. P. J. Carter
with an enrolment of about thirty pupils. Not long thereafter the building in the suburb of
Cooperstown was burned. Two additional rooms were then annexed to that of North Bluefield,
but before that could be occupied it was also destroyed in the same way. The Board of Education
then opened a school, in a building used first as a bar-room, then as a pool-room, and finally
as a courthouse. Thereafter an old store-room was used for four years.

There were then four teachers in Bluefield, Mr. H. Smith, Mr. T. P. Wright, Mesdames Lane,
and E. C. Smith. In time Mr. Wright and Mr. Smith were replaced by Miss H. W. Booze, Mr. W.
A. Saunders and Mr. R. A. McDonald. Mr. Saunders remained for one year and then was followed
by Mr. G. W. Hatter who was in his turn succeeded by Mr. R. F. Douglass, who served as principal
four years. Mr. Douglass had the board of education appropriate funds for a six-room building
and increase the corps of teachers to five. By raising funds in the community through entertainments
and the like, the teachers purchased a library of 100 volumes. In later years Mr. Douglass
was followed by Mr. E. L. Rand, a graduate of Lincoln University.

At Keystone in 1890 Mr. J. A. Brown opened its first Negro school with an enrolment of about
twenty-five. He was a man of fair education, but could not accomplish very much because the
term was only three months in length. The school was held in one of the private houses belonging
to the coal company and later in the church. In subsequent years there was very much development
in the right direction, which proved the quality of the teachers employed in the school. Among
these were Rev. J. Whittico, Mrs. Josephine D. Cannady, Mary A. McSwain, and Maggie Anderson.
This school was later combined to form the Keystone-Eckman graded school, and now has an eight
months' term and well-qualified teachers.[30] A school had been established at Eckman in 1893
by James Knox Smith.

In November, 1892, one Moses Sanders at Northfork opened a school with an enrolment of twenty.
He had only a rudimentary education. He served at Northfork for three terms using methods considered
fair for that time, and his work, as a whole, was regarded as successful. He had there the
support of such a useful person as Henry Glenn, now a member of the board of education.[31]
This school has later developed into a standard elementary graded school and a junior and senior
high school of more than one hundred students. It has done well under the reorganization and
direction of the efficient J. W. Robinson.

HIGHER EDUCATION OF NEGROES

It did not require much argument to show that the schools could not make much progress without
some provision for developing its own teaching force. The State Superintendent was early authorized,
therefore, to arrange with some school in the State for the professional training of Negro
teachers. For a number of years the State depended largely upon such normal training as could
be given at Storer College at Harper's Ferry. The reports of the State Superintendent of Schools
carried honorable mention from period to period of the successful work being accomplished there
under the direction of Dr. N. C. Brackett, which work was the only effort for secondary education
for Negroes in the State at that time. This was given an impetus by a measure introduced in
the legislature by Judge James H. Ferguson of Charleston, providing for an arrangement with
Storer College by which eighteen persons as candidates for teachers in this State should be
given free tuition at that institution. As this school was in the extreme northeastern section
of the State and was geographically a part of Maryland and Virginia, however, the Negroes of
the central and southern portions of Virginia soon began the movement for the establishment
of a Negro school providing for normal instruction nearer home. Mr. William Davis and his corps
of teachers in Charleston, West Virginia, were among the first in West Virginia to direct attention
to this crying need. Impetus was also given the movement by the rapid development of higher
grades in Point Pleasant, Saint Albans, Montgomery, Lewisburg and Eckman, necessitating better
trained teachers. In the summers of 1890, 1891, and 1892, Byrd Prillerman and H. B. Rice undertook
to supply this need by conducting a summer school in the city of Charleston. Still further
stimulus came later from the establishment of promising high schools in Parkersburg, Wheeling,
Clarksburg, Huntington, and Charleston.

During this same period, however, a systematic effort was being made to interest a larger group
in the more efficient training of Negro leaders. The Baptists of the State, led by C. H. Payne,
undertook to establish a college in West Virginia. Payne toured the State in behalf of the
enterprise, setting forth the urgent need for such an institution and showing how this objective
could be attained. Rallying to this call, the people of the State raised a sum adequate to
purchase a site, which was soon sought by authority of the Baptists of the State. They selected
the abandoned building and grounds of Shelton College, overlooking Saint Albans. Because of
race prejudice, however, the people of that town started such a protest that the owners of
the property were induced not to sell the site for such an unpopular purpose.

A more successful effort, however, was soon made. Talking with Superintendent Morgan about
the necessity for higher education for the Negroes of West Virginia, Byrd Prillerman obtained
from this official the promise to support a movement to supply this need. Superintendent Morgan
furthermore directed Prillerman to Governor Fleming to take up with him the same proposal.
The Governor was in a receptive mood and informed Prillerman, moreover, that this problem could
be more easily solved than he had at first thought, for the reason that such an institution
could be so established as to benefit by the Morrill Land Grant Act intended to subsidize,
with funds from the proceeds of public lands, institutions largely devoted to instruction in
Agriculture. Like the Negro Baptists of the State, Governor Fleming thought of purchasing Shelton
College in St. Albans; but inasmuch as that place was not available the State government had
to take more serious action. As Governor Fleming said he would give his approval to a bill
for the establishment of such an institution, the only problem to be then solved was to find
persons to pilot such a measure through the legislature. Superintendent Morgan outlined the
plans for this legislation. He showed how necessary it was to secure the support of Mr. C.
C. Watts and Judge James H. Ferguson. Byrd Prillerman used his influence in securing the support
of Mr. Watts and C. H. Payne induced Judge Ferguson to lend the cause a helping hand. These
gentlemen framed the measure which, after some unnecessary debate and unsuccessful opposition
from friends of Storer College, they piloted through the legislature in 1891 as a measure establishing
the West Virginia Colored Institute.

The first head of this institution was James E. Campbell, a graduate of the Pomeroy High School.
After laying the foundation and popularizing the work to some extent in the central portion
of the State, Campbell resigned and was succeeded by J. H. Hill, who rendered very efficient
service until 1899, when he was succeeded by J. McHenry Jones, under whom the school considerably
expanded. Following him came Byrd Prillerman, a man beloved by the people of West Virginia.
He had already been a successful teacher of English in this school. He then served the institution
as president for ten years, emphasizing the high ideals of Christian character as the essentials
in the preparation of youth. In 1915 a collegiate course was established at this institution
and its name was changed to that of the West Virginia Collegiate Institute. In 1919 Byrd Prillerman
was succeeded by John W. Davis, under whom the institution is progressing with renewed vigor
in its new field as a reorganized college furnishing facilities for education not offered elsewhere
for the youth of West Virginia.

The influx of Negroes into the southern counties of the State, which necessitated the establishment
of many elementary schools, caused at the same time a demand for the extension of the facilities
of pedagogic training of the advanced order provided in the West Virginia Colored Institute,
which was not at first easily accessible to the people of southern West Virginia. Acting upon
the memorials, praying that this need be supplied, the legislature established the Bluefield
Colored Institute in 1895. Mr. Hamilton Hatter was made the first principal and upon him devolved
the task of organizing this institution. After serving the institution efficiently until 1906
he retired, and was succeeded by Mr. R. P. Sims, who had formerly been an efficient and popular
assistant under Mr. Hatter at this institution. Mr. Sims has acceptably filled this position
until the present time.

THE WEST VIRGINIA TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION

To promote education and to encourage interest in their particular work the Negro teachers
of the State soon deemed it wise to take steps for more thorough cooperation of the whole teaching
corps of West Virginia. White and Negro teachers were then admitted to the same teachers' institutes
and in certain parts were encouraged to participate in the general discussions; but believing
that they could more successfully cooperate through organizations of their own, the teachers
in Charleston, in 1891, appointed from their own reading circle a committee to organize a State
Teachers' Association. This committee was composed of H. B. Rice, P. B. Burbridge and Byrd
Prillerman. The meeting was invited by Byrd Prillerman, as secretary, to meet at the Simpson
M. E. Church in Charleston. More than fifty teachers and race leaders attended. Inasmuch as
H. B. Rice, the chairman of the committee, was absent on account of illness, P. B. Burbridge,
whose name was second on the list of the committee, called the meeting to order, and delivered
the address of welcome. William T. McKinney of Huntington was elected temporary chairman. The
Association was then permanently organized by naming Byrd Prillerman its first president and
Mrs. Rhoda Weaver its first secretary. Among the most important addresses was that of C. H.
Payne, an influential and educated minister then engaged in religious and editorial work at
Montgomery, and that of B. S. Morgan, State Superintendent of Public Schools. Others attending
the meeting were Dr. W. T. Merchant, Mrs. E. M. Dandridge, Mrs. M. A. Washington-Thompson,
F. C. Smith, and J. R. Jefferson.[32]

The second meeting of this Association assembled according to arrangement in Parkersburg, West
Virginia. The work of the Association had by this time been taken more seriously by the teachers
throughout the State. They adopted a constitution with a preamble which stated that the aim
of the Association was "to elevate the character and advance the interest of the profession
of teaching, and to promote the cause of popular education in the State of West Virginia."
An address was delivered by State Superintendent of Schools B. S. Morgan, and papers were read
by Mrs. E. M. Dandridge of Quinnimont, Miss Blanche Jeffries of Charleston, Miss Coralie Franklin
of Storer College, and Principal J. E. Campbell of the West Virginia Colored Institute. Among
the persons attending but not appearing on the program were C. H. Barnett, who had been recently
graduated by Dennison University in Ohio; C. H. Payne, then well known in the State of West
Virginia; Dr. W. S. Kearney, a graduate of the medical college of Shaw University, then beginning
his practice in Huntington; J. R. Jefferson, F. C. Smith and O. A. Wells. Booker T. Washington
was at this time made an honorary member. Byrd Prillerman was unanimously elected president.

The third annual meeting of the Association was held at Parkersburg, West Virginia, in 1893.
For some reason there were not many teachers present. It was held at the Baptist Church of
that city, with President Byrd Prillerman presiding. The address of welcome was delivered by
Mr. J. R. Jefferson, to the words of whom Mr. C. W. Boyd of Charleston responded. At this meeting
Principal J. E. Campbell of the West Virginia Colored Institute was made president of the Association,
with C. W. Boyd, J. R. Jefferson, Miss Mary F. Norman as vice-presidents, Miss Clara Thomas
as secretary, Miss E. D. Webster as treasurer, and Mrs. Susie James as historian. Two of the
most prominent persons participating in this meeting were J. McHenry Jones, then principal
of the high school in Wheeling, and J. H. Hill, an instructor in the West Virginia Colored
Institute.

The fourth annual meeting assembled at Montgomery. J. E. Campbell being absent, Professor C.
W. Boyd presided. The meeting to a certain extent was a successful one. A Thanksgiving sermon
was preached by Dr. C. H. Payne. Dr. H. F. Gamble read a paper on "Science in Common School
Education." The Association took high ground by adopting a resolution urging a compulsory school
law. A committee consisting of C. W. Boyd, Rev. G. B. Howard, J. W. Scott, John H. Hill, and
Byrd Prillerman, was appointed to urge the State to make an appropriation for the teaching
fund of the West Virginia Colored Institute. Byrd Prillerman was again elected President and
Miss Fannie Cobb was chosen secretary.

The fifth annual meeting of the Association was held at Hinton. An important feature of the
meeting was the method of entertainment, in that the citizens of Hinton gave the teachers a
free banquet. Still more significant was the address delivered by Dr. J. E. Jones of the Richmond
Theological Seminary. Byrd Prillerman, the President, himself delivered an important address
giving valuable facts as to the conditions of the schools of the State, evoking widely extended
comment. The most prominent persons attending were J. H. Hill, Principal of the West Virginia
Colored Institute, G. B. Howard, Miss Mary Booze, W. T. McKinney, and Miss G. E. Fulks.[33]

The sixth annual meeting was held in Charleston in the House of Delegates, November 26-27,
1896. This was the largest and most interesting meeting hitherto held. Welcome addresses were
delivered by C. W. Boyd of the Garnet High School, Mr. George L. Laidley, Superintendent of
the Charleston Public Schools, and Governor W. A. McCorkle. Responses to the words of welcome
were delivered by J. H. Hill, principal of the West Virginia Colored Institute, Hamilton Hatter,
principal of the Bluefield Colored Institute, and C. H. Payne. Other prominent persons who
attended the meeting were Honorable V. A. Lewis, P. F. Jones, Colonel B. W. Byrne, Professor
A. L. Wade, J. R. Jefferson, Rev. D. W. Shaw, Dr. G. W. Holley, P. B. Burbridge, Dr. H. F.
Gamble, Dr. L. B. Washington, Mrs. E. M. Dandridge, Mrs. M. A. W. Thompson and Mrs. Byrd Prillerman.
Officers elected were: President, Byrd Prillerman; Vice Presidents, J. R. Jefferson, Mrs. E.
M. Dandridge, C. W. Boyd; Secretary, Miss Mary J. Jones; Treasurer, Mrs. M. A. W. Thompson;
Historian, Mr. George L. Cuzzins.

After this meeting of such unusual interest and unexpected success, the West Virginia Teachers'
Association reached its purely pedagogic setting. It ceased to be the organization concerned
with the general social uplift, of all, and thereafter restricted its program largely to educational
matters. This was due not so much to any desire on the part of the teachers to discontinue
cooperation with the clergy, but rather to direct attention primarily to the problems of education.
Ministers, thereafter, figured less conspicuously in the conventions, except so far as their
interests were coincident with those of the teaching body.

There have been twenty-eight sessions of the Association held at Charleston, Huntington,[34]
Parkersburg, Hinton, St. Albans, Bluefield, Institute, Kimball, and Harper's Ferry. The session
which was scheduled for Clarksburg in 1900 was called off because of the outbreak of small-pox
just before the time for the session to be convened.

Eleven well-known persons have served as president of the Association. Byrd Prillerman served
nine terms, C. W. Boyd one, J. R. Jefferson one, J. W. Scott three, H. H. Railey one, Hamilton
Hatter one, R. P. Sims two, E. L. Rann two, J. W. Moss two, A. W. Curtis two, John F. J. Clark
two, and H. L. Dickason, the present incumbent, two. Those who have served as secretary are
Miss Rhoda E. Weaver, Miss M. Blanche Jeffries, Miss Clara Thomas, Miss Fannie C. Cobb, Miss
Mary J. Jones, and Miss C. Ruth Campbell, and Miss H. Pryor.

Among the prominent persons who have addressed the Association are Hon. C. H. Payne, Ex-Governor
George W. Atkinson, Ex-Governor William A. McCorkle, and State Superintendents B. S. Morgan,
Virgil A. Lewis, James Russell Trotter, and M. P. Shawkey. Among other distinguished persons
have been Dr. J. E. Jones, Prof. George William Cook, J. McHenry Jones, Prof. Kelly Miller,
Dr. W. E. B. Dubois, Prof. William Pickens, Mr. William A. Joiner, Dr. Carter G. Woodson, Miss
Nannie H. Burroughs, John W. Davis, and Dr. J. E. Gregg.[35]

                                        C. G. WOODSON

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This study was undertaken at the suggestion of President John W. Davis, of The West Virginia
Collegiate Institute. He appointed a committee to collect the facts bearing on the early efforts
of workers among the Negroes in West Virginia. The members of this committee were C. G. Woodson,
D. A. Lane, A. A. Taylor, S. H. Guss, C. E. Jones, Mary E. Eubank, J. S. Price, F. A. Parker,
and W. F. Savoy.

At the first meeting of the committee, C. G. Woodson was chosen Chairman and at his suggestion
the following questionnaire was drawn up and sent out:

A QUESTIONNAIRE ON NEGRO EDUCATION IN WEST VIRGINIA

                                   Place........................

     1. When was a Negro school first opened in your district?

     2. What was the enrollment?

     3. Who was the first teacher?

     4. Was he well prepared?

     5. How long did he serve?

     6. Were his methods up-to-date or antiquated?

     7. Did he succeed or fail?

     8. Who were the useful patrons supporting the school?

     9. What was the method of securing certificates?

     10. What was the method of hiring teachers?

     11. What was the method of paying teachers, that is, did the
     school district pay promptly or was it necessary to discount
     their drafts or wait a long period to be paid? 12. Did the
     community own the school property or was the school taught in a
     private home or in a church?

     13. What has been the progress or development of the school?

     14. What is its present condition?

     15. What persons in your community can give additional facts on
     Negro education?

                                   Name........................

From the distribution of these questionnaires there were obtained the salient facts of the
early history of the pioneer education among Negroes in the State. A number of names of other
persons in a position to give additional information were returned with the questionnaires.
These were promptly used wherever the information needed could not be supplied from any other
source. Members of the committee, moreover, visited persons in various parts and interviewed
them to obtain facts not otherwise available. Wherever it was possible, the investigators consulted
the available records of the State and county. In this way, however, only meager information
could be obtained.

The most reliable sources were such books as the annual Reports of the State Superintendent
of Public Schools, the History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1904), and the History
of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907). Such local histories as the Howard School
of Piedmont, West Virginia, and K. J. Anthony's Storer College were also helpful.

At the conclusion of this study, President John W. Davis made the celebration of Founder's
Day, May 3, 1921, a convocation for rehearsing the early educational history of the State.
Most of the living pioneers in this cause were invited to address this meeting, as they would
doubtless under the inspiration of the occasion, set forth facts which an ordinary interview
would not evoke, and thus it happened.

Of those invited Mrs. E. M. Dandridge, one of the oldest educators in the State, Mr. S. H.
Guss, head of the Secondary Department of The West Virginia Collegiate Institute, and President
Emeritus Byrd Prillerman responded with forceful addresses. Mrs. Dandridge gave in a very impressive
way a brief account of education in Fayette County. Mr. Guss delivered an informing address
on the contribution of the early teachers from Ohio, and President Emeritus Prillerman expressed
with emphasis a new thought in taking up the rise of schools in the State and the organization
and growth of the West Virginia Teachers' Association. Prof. J. S. Price, of the West Virginia
Collegiate Institute, showed by interesting and informing charts the development of the Negro
teacher and the Negro school in West Virginia.

At the conclusion of all of these efforts the facts collected were turned over to C. G. Woodson
to be embodied in literary form. Prof. D. A. Lane, of the Department of English of The West
Virginia Collegiate Institute, also a member of the committee, read the manuscript and suggested
a few changes.

[2] Report of the State Superintendent of Public Instruction, 1864, p. 31.

[3] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), p. 274.

[4] See West Virginia Constitution.

[5] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), p. 274.

[6] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), p. 268.

[7] Ibid., 269.

[8] The Parkersburg Weekly Times, June 7, 1866.

[9] These facts were obtained from local records.

[10] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), pp. 269-270.

[11] These facts were obtained from the local records, from Mr. S. H. Guss and from Mr. D.
H. Kyle, both of whom served as teachers in Clarksburg.

[12] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), pp. 273-274.

[13] These facts were obtained from local records.

[14] History of the Howard School, Piedmont, West Virginia, 1919, passim.

[15] This fact is stated in a letter of J. E. Robinson.

[16] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), pp. 264-266; and Storer College,
Brief Historical Sketch, by K. J. Anthony.

[16a] These facts were obtained from Mrs. Brady's daughter.

[17] Facts obtained from a former teacher at this place, Freida Campbell.

[18] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1907), p. 243.

[19] Facts obtained from local records.

[20] These facts were obtained from the teachers and oldest citizens of the town, who actually
participated in these early efforts.

[21] These facts were supplied by Mary Campbell, an old citizen of Union.

[22] History of Education in West Virginia (Edition of 1904), Negro Education in Fayette County.

[23] Facts obtained from old citizens and former teachers.

[24] These facts were obtained from old citizens and from local records. See also J. P. Hale's
Trans-Allegheny Pioneers, 385.

[25] This is largely Mr. Davis's own statement verified by several other authorities and by
local records.

[26] These statements are supported by the records of the Board of Education of Charleston.

[27] In the summer of 1874 there was circulated among the teachers of this school a petition
in behalf of Miss Bertha Chapelle, who was chosen to teach the second term of the high school.
In this way the last month of the session was taught with but one scholar attending. In the
year 1875 Miss Mollie Berry was chosen to teach this school, and she was followed in 1876 by
Mr. Frank C. James, who had taught previously the first public school in the county at Kanawha
City, in 1866. He was succeeded in 1877 by Mr. Pitt Campbell, who was followed by Mrs. Bettie
Cabell in 1878. She was in turn succeeded by Mr. Brack Cabell the following year. In 1880 the
school was moved to the site now occupied by the two-room village school, and was called the
Piney Road School. Mr. J. B. Cabell was chosen teacher for the first year.

In 1881 Miss Emma Ferguson was selected teacher. Miss Ferguson, now Mrs. Emma Jones, is still
an active teacher. In 1882 Miss Addie Wells taught this school. She was followed by Miss Annie
Cozzins. In 1884 W. C. Cabell was in charge. He was succeeded in 1885 by Otho Wells and he
by Mrs. Julia Brown in 1886.

[28] These facts were obtained from old citizens and from local records.

[29] For a more detailed account, see the History of Education in West Virginia, pp. 272-273.

[30] These facts were obtained from local records.

[31] These facts were obtained from J. W. Robinson, the principal of the school.

[32] The following resolutions adopted at the meeting of the Teachers' Association in 1891
were suggestive:

1. That all persons of high literary standing, who are not teachers, be admitted as honorary
members.

2. That we highly commend the committee of arrangements for their success in bringing together
so many teachers and professional persons, and for making the meeting of so much importance
and interest.

3. That we recognize in the death of Prof. W. B. Ross, A.M., who died at his post at Greenville,
Texas, August 20, 1891, the loss of one of our ripest scholars and most efficient educators.

4. That we tender our thanks to Hon. B. S. Morgan, State Superintendent, for the interest he
manifested in the Association and the able address he delivered before us.

5. That the Summer School for Teachers, as has been taught by Professors H. B. Rice and Byrd
Prillerman, has been a means of elevating the standard of our teachers, and should be continued.

6. That we indorse the action of the State Legislature in establishing the West Virginia Colored
Institute, and that we will do all in our power to make this school a success.

7. That we make The Pioneer the official organ of the Association.

8. That we tender our thanks to the Pastor and Congregation for the use of this Church, and
also to Mr. I. C. Cabell for his valuable services as organist.

The Committee was composed of J. R. Jefferson, Mary M. Brown, Dr. W. T. Merchant, C. H. Payne,
Miss Luella Ferguson and Atty. M. H. Jones.

[33] This account of the early meetings of the West Virginia Teachers' Association is found
in the Twelfth Biennial Report of the State Superintendent of Schools of West Virginia, 1895-1896,
pp. 111-113.

[34] At the Huntington meeting in 1892 an original poem on Thanksgiving Day was read by Miss
Leota Moss. The poem was written by Paul Lawrence Dunbar for this special occasion at the request
of Byrd Prillerman, the president. The price paid Dunbar for this service was $2.00.

[35] The more recent record of the West Virginia Teachers' Association was given by Byrd Prillerman,
who served that body nine terms as president.

THE FIRST NEGRO CHURCHES IN THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA

The early Negro churches in the District of Columbia were Methodist and Baptist. The rise of
numerous churches of these sects in contradistinction to those of other denominations may be
easily accounted for by the fact that in the beginning the Negroes were earnestly sought by
the Methodists and Baptists because white persons of high social position at first looked with
contempt upon these evangelical denominations; but when in the course of time the poor whites
who had joined the Methodist church accumulated wealth and some of them became aristocratic
slaveholders themselves, they assumed such a haughty attitude toward the Negroes that the increasing
race hate made their presence so intolerable that the independent church movement among the
Negro Methodists and Baptists was the only remedy for their humiliation. The separation of
the Negro Methodists was made possible at a much earlier date in the District of Columbia,
when Richard Allen had set the example by his protest against discrimination in the Methodist
church, of Philadelphia, which culminated in the establishment of the distinct Negro denomination,
and also when the Zionites in New York City, led by James Varick, had separated from the Methodists
there for similar reasons. It was not until the time of the critical period of the slavery
agitation, however, that practically all of the Protestant churches provided separate pews
and separate galleries for Negroes and so rigidly enforced the rules of segregation that there
was a general exodus of the Negroes, in cities of the border States, from the Protestant churches.[1]
The District of Columbia had the same upheaval.

The records show that among the Methodists the alienation developed sooner than in any of the
other churches. "As early as 1820," according to an investigator, "the colored members of the
Ebenezer Church on Fourth Street, East, near Virginia Avenue, erected a log building in that
vicinity, not far from the present Odd Fellow's lodge, for their social, religious meetings
and Sabbath school. About the same time some of the leading members among them, George Bell
and George Hicks, became dissatisfied with their treatment, withdrew, and organized a church
in connection with the African Methodist Episcopal church. At first they worshipped in Basil
Sim's Rope-walk, First Street east, near Pennsylvania Avenue, but subsequently in Rev. Mr.
Wheat's school-house on Capitol Hill, near Virginia Avenue. They finally purchased the old
First Presbyterian Church at the foot of Capitol Hill, later known as the Israel Bethel Colored
Methodist Episcopal Church. Some years thereafter other members of the old Ebenezer Church,
not liking their confined quarters in the gallery, and otherwise discontented, purchased a
lot on the corner of C Street south and Fifth Street east, built a house of worship, and organized
the "Little Ebenezer Methodist Episcopal Church."[2]

About the year 1825 a third colonization from the original Ebenezer Church took place. One
grievance among others was that the Negro members were dissatisfied with their white pastors
because they declined to take the Negro children into their arms when administering the rites
of baptism. In 1839 this alienation developed into an open rupture, when thirteen class leaders
and one exhorter left the mother church, and, after purchasing a lot on the Island, erected
a house and formed a Negro church, independent of the Methodist Episcopal body, under the name
of the Wesley Zion Church, and employed a Negro preacher. Among the prominent men in this separation
were Enoch Ambush, the well-known schoolmaster, and Anthony Bowen, who for many years was an
estimable employee in the Department of the Interior.[3] Mr. Bowen served as a local preacher
for forty years, and under his guidance St. Paul's Negro Church on the Island was organized,
at first worshipping in E Street Chapel."[3a]

The white Methodists of Georgetown elbowed their Negro membership out of their meeting house,
but for fourteen years, that is, until 1830, they kept no written church records except a list
of this one sold to Georgia, another to Carolina, a third to Louisiana, and others to different
parts--annals befitting the time and place, and a searchlight on conditions then prevailing
at the National Capitol and elsewhere south of the Mason and Dixon line. In 1830 the membership
was large and much spirituality was manifested. White ministers of more than local note were
anxious to serve these people. At the instance of one of them, Mr. Roszel, the church was first
called Mount Zion Methodist Episcopal Church, because it was located on a hill. The feasibility
of having Negro ministers to preside over Negro churches was proposed in 1849 and was a fruitful
theme for several years.[4] In fact, it was due to this effort that the organization of Union
Wesley A. M. E., the John Wesley, and Ebenezer Churches followed. John Brent, a member of Mt.
Zion, led in the first named movement, and Clement Beckett, another reformer, espoused the
organization of Ebenezer in 1856, as a church "for Negroes and by Negroes."[5]

The beginnings of the Israel Colored Methodist Episcopal Church centered around the evangelical
activity of David Smith, a native of Baltimore, the most energetic of individual forces in
the organization of the first African Methodist Episcopal Church in the city of Washington.
The presence of a Negro preacher was objectionable to many Negroes themselves. As early as
1821 Mr. Smith was assigned to Washington but his coming was the signal for personal attack,
and he was mobbed by members of his own race, communicants of the Methodist Episcopal Church,
who were opposed to the African Methodists. He persisted, however, and having secured an old
school house for $300, entered upon his work with such zeal and energy that he commanded success.
Among the men and women active in the first efforts were Scipio Beans, George Simms, Peter
Schureman, George Hicks, Dora Bowen, William Costin, William Datcher, William Warren and George
Bell, one of the three colored men who fifteen years before had erected a building for a Negro
school.

Israel promptly became a member of the Baltimore Conference, one of the oldest conferences
of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. The first Negro conference to meet in Washington
was held in Israel during the administration of Andrew Jackson. Its assembly caused a sensation
and gave the church and the denomination a standing surpassing that of all other Negro churches
in the community. It was also largely through the personalities of the ministers in charge
of Israel that its influence on its congregation and through them on the community must be
judged. Among those in the period of its African Methodist affiliation were David Smith, Clayton
Durham, John and William Cornish, James A. Shorter, Daniel A. Payne, Samuel Watts, Jeremiah
R. V. Thomas, Henry M. Turner, William H. Hunter, George T. Watkins, James H. A. Johnson, and
finally Jacob M. Mitchell, the last of the African Methodist Episcopal pastors at Israel. Smith
and Durham were colleagues of Richard Allen; William Cornish was in the antislavery struggle;
Hunter and Turner served as chaplains in the Union Army; and Payne, Wayman, Shorter and Turner
became bishops of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.

The career of Bishop Payne is widely known, but some incidents in his pastorate deserve emphasis.
Under a prevailing law he had to secure a bond of one thousand dollars before he could remain
in the District of Columbia and officiate as a minister. The building being without pews and
the people too poor to buy them, Payne, who had learned the trade of a carpenter, bought tools,
threw off his coat, and, with the aid of the society furnishing the lumber, in a few weeks
seated the basement of the church. The first Negro ministers' union in Washington was organized
by Bishop Payne, the other two members being John F. Cook of the Fifteenth Street Presbyterian
Church and Levi Collins of Wesley Zion.

It was during the Civil War, however, that the influence of Israel was at its maximum. Then
it was that the intellectual genius, the fiery pulpit orator, the daring and unique Henry McNeal
Turner, was not only a conspicuous preacher but preeminent as a national character. These were
stirring times. All eyes were on Washington. Israel Church played a leading part in the drama.
Here the members of Congress, prominent among whom at the time were Benjamin F. Wade, Thaddeus
Stevens and Henry Wilson, addressed the Negro citizens on the dominant issues of the day, buoying
them up in the midst of their darkness and gloom. At this time the Israel Lyceum was an institution
not unlike the Bethel Literary Association of thirty years later, that drew the most intellectual
men to listen to lectures, participate in discussions, and read dissertations on timely topics.[6]

In reckoning the influence[7] of this church the individuals whose place was in the pew must
not be forgotten. The minister passes from church to church; the layman remains. In hurried
review there comes to mind Alethea Tanner, who rescued the church when it was about to be sold
at auction. There were George Bell and Enoch Ambush, who operated in this church basement a
large school which was maintained for thirty-two years. Honorable mention belongs here also
to Rev. William Nichols whom, because of his high ideals, Bishop Payne, in his History of the
African Methodist Episcopal Church from 1816 to 1856, classed as "a man of more than ordinary
intelligence firmly opposed to the extravagent zeal and rude manners which characterized so
many of the leading men of his denomination." He was the "veritable hero who had aided the
martyred Torrey in covering the escape of many slaves from the District of Columbia to Canada
and who when by accident he learned that suspicion rested on him the fear of arrest was so
great on his mind as to induce the paralysis which led to his (Nicoll's) sudden death."[8]

Some years later a sermon preached at Israel by Bishop John M. Brown, to whom the writer was
a listener, deeply stirred the congregation. At the time I did not understand what caused the
tumult until I learned from Rev. James Reid, a local preacher, that the church was negotiating
for another lot on which to erect a new building, and the contention was whether the title
to the new site should be held in trust for the congregation or for the denomination. The people
contended that the property should be held in trust for them; the bishop, on the other hand,
maintained that it should be in the name of the trustees of the denomination. The people were
insistent and won their contention. A step further was the repudiation of the appointment made
for them by the bishop, and the severance of their relations with the A. M. E. church made
them independent. After a short interval Israel joined the Colored Methodist Episcopal Church,
which had been set apart in 1870 by the M. E. Church, South.[9]

During these years the Asbury Methodist Episcopal Church was also in the making. Certain records
show January 15, 1836, as the date of the organization of the Asbury Aid Society. These workers
were originally a part of the Old Foundry Church. When this congregation augmented so that
the gallery occupied by the Negro membership became too congested for their accommodation,
it became necessary to find more suitable quarters. The old Smothers School House on H Street
near Fourteenth was rented for their use, but it, too, became inadequate, making the purchase
of ground on which to build an immediate necessity. Thomas Johnson, Lewis Delaney, and Benjamin
M. McCoy were constituted the building committee that secured from William Billings the lot
on which the church was ultimately built. The Foundry Quarterly Conference, under whose authority
they were functioning, elected trustees and a building committee to secure funds and pay for
the building, but no regular church organization was immediately effected. These communicants
remained under the sole management and control of the Foundry Church until the organization
of the Washington Conference in the Civil War. Originally there were two Negro preachers, one
a deacon, the other a licentiate, and two exhorters in these early days. There were three stewards,
two black and one white. These constituted the officiary and were members of the Foundry Quarterly
Conference.

After the Annual Conference of 1841, when there were, according to the stewards' records, 423
Negro members, an appeal was made to the Quarterly Conference of the Foundry for a preacher
to take more direct supervision of the church. By order of the bishop, Rev. James M. Hanson,
a supernumerary of the Foundry Church was appointed to take the charge of Asbury as its regular
minister. Though a separate charge, Asbury was not a separate station, and it continued in
subordination to the Foundry Church. After Hanson's appointment, regular weekly meetings were
established, but the white leaders did not seem to succeed, for four of them had by this time
resigned. In 1845 there was but one white leader remaining, and he did not meet regularly with
the Negro leaders.[10] Again in 1851, therefore, there was an appeal to the presiding bishop
and elders of the Baltimore Annual Conference (white) praying for a separate establishment,[11]
and the request was finally granted in the Civil War.

Union Bethel (Metropolitan) A. M. E. Church was organized July 6, 1838, as a branch of Israel
A. M. E., with Clayton Durham as pastor, assisted by John Cornish. They met in a little house
which stood in the rear of one Mr. Bolden's residence on L Street near Fifteenth Street. William
H. Moore took charge in 1840, after which regular appointments annually followed. In 1841 there
served one Mr. Moore, who was reappointed, and in 1842 Edward Waters began an incumbency of
two years. In 1844 Adam S. Driver became pastor and remained two years. He was succeeded in
1847 by Thomas W. Henry. In 1848 Alexander Washington Wayman, whose name frequently figures
in the history of the church and denomination, appeared on the scene, followed in 1850 by W.
H. Moore. In 1851 Wayman returned to Union Bethel and remained two years. In 1853 John R. V.
Morgan, destined to occupy a unique figure because of his oratorical ability, was pastor. Savage
L. Hammond, who was appointed in 1854, served also the next year.[12]

The first work towards the erection of the present Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal
Church, first known as Union Bethel, was begun by John W. Stevenson, who was transferred from
the New Jersey Conference and appointed by Bishop D. A. Payne for the specific purpose of erecting
the new building. He entered upon his work with great zeal and alacrity, but pursued methods
which, though adapted to or suitable in the localities in which he had hitherto labored with
such phenomenal success, occasioned much friction and disgust in Washington. He catered to
elements that would relegate the more cultured and progressive classes to the background, yet
he secured among the conservatives loyal support. At the end of his first year, however, the
spirit of rebellion was rife. A delegation of the discontented element called on the presiding
bishop to state their grievance and effect the removal of the irrepressible minister, but Bishop
Payne was inexorable. He did not even give an actual hearing to the petitioners, although they
were personally known to him to be some of the most faithful adherents of African Methodism.
The next step was open rebellion. Meetings were held by the dissatisfied group and in the month
of June more than a hundred and fifty persons, after the question of forming a new religious
organization had been carefully canvassed, agreed to sever their connection with their spiritual
mother and raise their "Ebenezer" elsewhere. Notwithstanding this opposition within and without,
however, the old edifice was pulled down and work on the new building was immediately begun.

The corner stone was laid in September, 1881, with appropriate ceremonies under the auspices
of the Masons. During the work on the building, which was continued up to the fall of 1885,
services were held in the Hall on M Street diagonally opposite the square to the west. By the
end of Stevenson's second year, he had, by his characteristic methods, alienated so many of
those on whom he had relied mainly for support that Bishop Payne, now disillusioned, was as
bitter against Stevenson as he was blindly his champion the year before.[13] Stevenson was
removed, but there were those who still believed in his leadership. He refused to accept the
appointment given him and organized the Central Methodist Church with dissentients formerly
members of Union Bethel. James A. Handy was appointed Stevenson's successor at this juncture,
yet there was considerable opposition even among those regarded as his firm personal and political
friends.[14] The building was finally completed. By a vote of the African Methodist Episcopal
Conference in 1872 the name was changed from Union Bethel to Metropolitan.

The same forces tending toward separation were at this time at work also among the Negro Baptist
members in the white churches. This was the case of the First Baptist Church (white) organized
in 1802. Its Negro members worshipped at first on the basis of equality with the whites, but
this came to an end when the Negro members were assigned to the gallery, just as other churches
of this time were gradually segregating them. When the new white Baptist Church, which was
afterward sold and converted into a theater later known as Ford's Theater, was built on Tenth
Street, the Negro communicants were given the gallery, but this was not satisfactory to the
majority, who chafed under the new arrangement. O. B. Brown, the pastor, however, tried under
the circumstances to treat the Negro members with as much charity as his prejudiced members
would permit, as he was a kind-hearted man and did not believe in distinction on account of
color. When the Tenth Street Church was occupied in 1833, therefore, these discontented members
bought the old church on the corner of 19th and I Streets, Northwest, which is still held by
that congregation and known throughout the country as the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church.

This was the first church of the denomination among the Negroes of the District of Columbia.
It was organized August 29, 1839, by Sampson White, a Negro, assisted by John Healy and S.
P. Hill, white pastors of Baltimore, and Moses Clayton, a Negro minister, who was the founder
and pastor of the first Negro Baptist church of Baltimore. The original members were William
Bush, Eliza Bush, Lavinia Perry and Emily Coke. The accession of Sampson White and wife increased
the membership to six. None of these had been members of any church in the District of Columbia.
They held letters from churches elsewhere, and so were free to form a church of their own in
this city. But the white Baptist church, which had worshipped at 19th and I Streets, Northwest,
from the year of their organization, from 1802 to 1833, had many Negro members who worshipped
at 19th and I Streets for six years before Sampson White organized his small congregation.

These Negro members of the white church, being separated in worship from their white brethren,
and having become sole owners of the house of worship which formerly they and the whites owned
as members of the white church, wished to be organized as a separate body. This was refused.
Sampson White, therefore, organized the First Negro Baptist Church of Washington, with persons
not of the Washington white church, and thereby secured the recognition of his church by the
leading white and Negro Baptists of Baltimore. In less than sixty days he had it in the oldest
and best known white Baptist connection in America, the Philadelphia Baptist Association. This
accomplished, Sampson White's little group received into their body all of the Negro members
of the white church, except about twenty-three. These additional members made this a congregation
ten times the size of the original body. This larger group, too, was in possession of the property
at 19th and I Streets, at the time that the founders received them as members, and having been
in possession of the property from the time it was sold to the Negro members of the First Baptist
Church, white, these Negro Baptists, thereafter worshipping as the First Negro Baptist Church,
insisted that the property was theirs, while the few colored members of the white church, who
did not leave the parent body, claimed the property as belonging to them. This led to a law
suit which lasted for years, but finally all the Negro members of the First Baptist Church,
white, cast in their lot with the members at 19th and I Streets, and the trustees of the white
church kindly released all claim in behalf of Negro members of that body, and rendered the
deed clear.[15]

The first pastorate of Sampson White was short. He was followed by William Williams. Under
his labors the membership increased almost to two hundred. But the latter part of his incumbency
was not peaceful and William Bush, and others of the church withdrew. After casting their lot
with the white Second Baptist Church near the Navy Yard, these seceders, along with others,
were constituted the Second Negro Baptist Church of this city, with H. Butler, a former member
of the church at 19th and I Streets, as pastor.

Following William Williams came Martin Jenkins as a supply. In 1849 Gustavus Brown became pastor,
remaining for a short while. He was succeeded by Sampson White, who, serving the congregation
a second time, remained with the church until 1853. Chauncey A. Leonard was the next pastor,
and after him Samuel M. Madden. At the close of the Civil War, D. W. Anderson became pastor
and for seven years labored for the good of his church. During his ministry in Washington the
church added to its membership a thousand or more, chiefly as the result of the additions to
this city from the Negro population of the ex-slaves of the South. But D. W. Anderson, as a
man of great heart, labored for all Washington. Under his leadership the Metropolitan and Vermont
Avenue Baptist churches were organized. The Nineteenth Street Baptist Church building which
had been altered and improved from time to time, before his pastorate, was demolished and a
new edifice erected in 1871. In 1872, D. W. Anderson passed to his reward and the church erected
a marble shaft in the Harmony Cemetery to mark the place where his remains lie.

Anthony Binga, Sr., of Canada, followed D. W. Anderson, but his pastorate was short. His successor
was Jesse Boulden, of Mississippi, who occupied the pulpit for about four years. During his
pastorate thirty members withdrew, and formed the Berean Baptist Church. Sometime before this,
the Salem Baptist Church had been constituted with members from the churches of which Anderson,
Binga and Boulden had been pastors.[16]

The pastorate of Dr. Walter H. Brooks is the outstanding one in the history of the church,
extending from November 12, 1882, until the present writing, the third decade of the twentieth
century. During his ministrations more than 3,500 have joined the church, 1,500 of whom were
personally baptized by him. The financial condition of the church places it among the best
managed churches in the country, although it has at times assumed heavy obligations in making
improvements and in rebuilding. During the pastorate of Dr. Brooks a number of ministers and
preachers have gone forth from the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church. Dr. J. L. Dart, the founder
of an important education and missionary work in South Carolina, was ordained at this church.
Dr. James R. L. Diggs, pastor of Trinity Baptist Church, and head of important educational
work in Baltimore, is of this congregation, having been baptized and ordained by Dr. Brooks.
E. E. Rick, of Newark, N. J., was ordained from the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church. James
L. Pinn is a product of this body, and Dr. Brooks was influential in securing for him his first
charge. John H. Burke, pastor of Israel Baptist Church, came up under Dr. Brooks, as did also
Joseph Lee, of Arlington, Virginia, and James L. Jasper, of Brentwood, Maryland. But none of
these products of the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church have done a better work than Miss Jennie
Deane, the founder of the Manassas Industrial School, in Virginia, and Miss Nannie H. Burroughs,
the founder and promoter of the National Training School for Women and Girls, Lincoln Heights,
Washington, D. C. Nor should Mrs. Laura Queen be forgotten, for by her labors the doors of
Stoddard Baptist Home were first opened.[17]

The Fifteenth Street Presbyterian Church, the next to be established, was formally organized
November 21, 1841, in a little frame school house located on H Street near 14th Northwest.
The moving spirit in this undertaking was John F. Cook.[18] He had been received as a licentiate
by the Presbytery of the District of Columbia on the twenty-first of October of that same year.
Eighteen persons took part in this organization. Of these John F. Cook and Alfred A. Cook had
been official members of the Union Bethel, now the Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal
Church. The pioneer members came from the First, the Second, and the Fourth Presbyterian Churches
of the city and one from the Shiloh Church of New York, of which the Rev. Theodore S. Wright
was pastor. The reasons why they desired the establishment of an independent church were clearly
set forth in a series of resolutions which were not unlike those which occasioned the organization
of other Negro churches. The new society was received into the Presbytery May 3, 1842, when
in session at Alexandria, Virginia, then a part of the District of Columbia. John F. Cook was
installed as the first pastor July 14, 1855. Under his pastorate the church prospered, increasing
its membership to 125.

The successor of Mr. Cook was William T. Catto of Philadelphia, the former pastor of the First
African Presbyterian Church of the country. Others to occupy the pulpit as supplies and pastors
were Benjamin T. Tanner, subsequently a bishop of the A. M. E. Church, William B. Evans, Henry
Highland Garnet, J. H. Muse, J. Sella Martin, John B. Reeves, during his connection with Howard
University, Dr. Septimus Tustin, George Van Deurs, a Swede, and John Brown, a Scotchman. The
last mentioned incumbent was succeeded by the Rev. Francis J. Grimké, who has served longer
than all other pastors combined, and with marked success. During the first years of the ministry
of Mr. Grimké, which began in the spring of 1878, there was great spiritual awakening as the
result of his forceful preaching.

The church has had a high record for its Christian ideals and its public spirit. It has always
stood for the best things, morally and spiritually, in the life of the community. It has always
been ready to aid in every worthy cause. During the period immediately preceding the Civil
War, and in the days of the reconstruction, it divided honors with the Israel Church as a place
of popular assembly and referendum. In 1918 it sold its old edifice on 15th Street between
I and K Streets, where it had worshipped for seventy-five years, and is now located in a beautiful
and commodious structure on the corner of R and Fifteenth Streets.

The next significant effort was made by the Baptists. Persons dismissed from the Nineteenth
Street Baptist Church for the purpose of organizing another body began in the year 1848 the
existence of the Second Baptist Church, under the leadership of H. H. Butler, a licentiate.
The next year Jeremiah Asher, a native of Connecticut, became the first pastor and remained
for two years. Mr. Asher was a typical New Englander of superior education and high ideals.
In 1850 Gustavus Brown assumed charge of the new body when it worshipped on B Street, Southwest,
between Sixth and Seventh, in a broom factory, and subsequently at 9th and D Streets, Northwest,
over Ryan's Grocery Store. In 1853 H. H. Butler was recalled and formally ordained as pastor.
He remained with the church until his death in 1856, when Sandy Alexander was asked to accept
this charge. A permanent home was then bought on the present site where the congregation has
worshipped ever since. Mr. Alexander continued for five years until his health compelled him
to retire. In 1861, Caleb Woodyard became pastor and remained for two years. During this period
conditions were such that progress was not steady and this led to the recall of Mr. Alexander,
under whose direction a strong organization was effected. Following him, came Chauncey A. Leonard
and next John Gaines. Then followed Madison Gaskins, whose service was characterized by alternating
conditions, a lawsuit, a fire and new organizations branching therefrom as Mount Carmel, Mt.
Olive in the Northeast, and Rehoboth in the Southwest.[20]

The African Methodist Episcopal Zion Churches of Washington, D. C., grew out of the efforts
of their denomination, founded by James Varick, Peter Williams, William Miller, Abraham Thompson,
Christopher Rush and others, in New York City, in 1796. These fathers early extended their
work through New England, western New York, central and western Pennsylvania. In 1833, their
first church was founded in South Washington, then known as the Island. It was established
as the Metropolitan Wesley African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, on D Street, Southwest,
Washington, D. C. The first pastor was Abraham Cole, who took charge in 1833. The persons organizing
this church were originally members of the Ebenezer M. E. Church, located on D Street, Southeast.
They drew out of this organization because their pastor, a white man, held slaves. The Wesley
Metropolitan African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, its officers contend, was the first independent
church in the District of Columbia organized by colored people. The first public school for
the training of Negro youth was held in this church. Hanson Brooks was the secretary of the
first organization.[21]

The establishment of the Union Wesley, the second church of the Zionites, in Washington, the
progressive body, of which Dr. E. D. W. Jones was pastor, was very interesting. This church
was organized in 1848 by Bishop J. J. Clinton, who afterwards became a bright star in the African
Methodist Episcopal Zion Church. The organization took place in the residence of Gasoway Waters
in Georgetown.[22] He had been sent to Georgetown as a missionary and started his labors in
this organization of a few persons determined to become independent of the white Methodists.

They began the construction of a church with the help of such men and women as Charles Lemon,
Charly Wilson, Eliza Wilson, William Crusoe, George Brown, Mary Brown, William Sewall, Margaret
Waters, and Eliza Johnson. After having been organized for a little while, they bought a lot
on the corner of what is now known as 28th and O Streets, Georgetown.[23] Things seemed favorable
in the beginning, but the enemies of the church were busy those days putting temptation in
the path of the Negro and betraying him unto his enemies. Bondmen, according to the slave code,
were not allowed to meet or hold any kind of meeting unless a white man was present. Nor were
they allowed to be out after ten o'clock at night without a pass, or to have two or more congregate
on the street at one time. If they did any of these things, they thereby violated the sacred
laws of bondage and suffered imprisonment and persecution. Thus handicapped in their worship,
they, like Paul and Silas, prayed for a deliverer, and he came in the person of a young lawyer
from Philadelphia, who had taken up the cause. By his earnest endeavors in their behalf, they
were released without being sentenced to jail or whipped. But, nevertheless, they were driven
out of Georgetown, across Rock Creek, and into Washington, where they worshipped for a while
in the house of William Beckett on the corner of 23d and L Streets.

A short time afterwards they bought the lot where this church now stands and built thereon
a frame chapel which was contemptuously called the Horseshoe Church. After they had been there
but a short time, there was a funeral at the chapel one day. Across from the chapel the Hibernian
fire company was stationed. While the funeral services were being held in the chapel, two of
these firemen came across the street and while one of them got inside of the hearse the other
one got up on the driver's seat and drove all around the streets, while the people were out
looking for the hearse. When they came back, the one who was inside got out and said that he
was Lazarus risen from the dead. This act so inflamed some of the white gentlemen that they
had the firemen arrested and prosecuted. These two impious gentlemen became so indignant because
of their arrest that they set fire to the chapel and burned it to the ground. These communicants,
being homeless again, went back to the house of William Beckett on L Street and commenced to
rebuild. This time they succeeded in erecting a brick building, a portion of which stands today.

The John Wesley African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church was organized in 1849 at the home of
John Brent on Eighteenth and L Streets. Among the founders were John Brent, W. H. Johnson,
John Brent, Jr., William V. Ingram, Arnold Bowie, Charles Wilson, Joseph Conner, Edward Curtis,
and Gilbert Joy. These communicants then purchased property on Connecticut Avenue and built
thereon a simple frame building into which they moved in 1851.[24] This church finally bought
the old Berean Baptist Church property on Eighteenth Street, under the pastorate of Dr. B.
J. Bolding, in 1902.

The ministers who pastored the congregation while it worshipped in Connecticut Avenue were
Abraham Cole, J. B. Trusty, N. F. Turpin, J. H. Hamer, H. F. Butler, Nathaniel Stubbs, Sampson
Talbert, S. T. Jones, John V. Givens, S. T. Henry, G. W. Bosley, S. S. Wales, J. W. Smith,
J. P. Thompson, Jesse Cowles, W. A. Cypress, J. A. Williams, J. B. Small, B. J. Bolding, R.
H. G. Dyson, D. H. Anderson, R. A. Fisher, J. J. Clinton, and J. H. McMullen. Those who served
the body in Eighteenth Street were Rev. L. W. Kyles, W. A. Blackwell, P. H. Williams, C. C.
Alleyne, and Dr. William C. Brown. John Wesley Church has had at different times six pastors,
who later were elected to the bishopric. These were Bishops Sampson Talbert, J. J. Clinton,
J. P. Thompson, S. T. Jones, J. B. Small and John Wesley Smith, all of whom are deceased. Among
the officers of the church may be mentioned Gilbert L. Joy, who was made secretary of the Trustee
Board in 1864, and served thirty-two years in that capacity. He had the enviable record of
being a trustee of this church for forty-three years, a longer period than that of any other
person connected with it, and he is still an active member.

The awakening of John Wesley A. M. E. Zion Church, characterized by the selling of its property
on Eighteenth Street to purchase at the same time the edifice on Fourteenth and Corcoran Streets
for $61,000, is significant. It is the most important event in the history of Zion Church in
Washington. The Zion Church long needed a larger representative edifice in this city. This
advanced step was taken, and under the leadership of Dr. W. C. Brown and Dr. W. O. Carrington
the progress of the congregation has been epochal.

The Galbraith African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church was founded in 1859. That year five members
of Zion Wesley, under the leadership of Samuel Payne, withdrew and organized a church in a
small house on L Street between Third and Fourth Streets. They subsequently built a house of
worship near New York Avenue. Robert H. G. Dyson who had been active as a class leader and
chorister in Zion Wesley, became the first pastor. It developed from its little frame church
on L Street, Northwest, into a larger congregation in the modern structure on its present location,
under N. J. Green, the pastor in charge. This church has figured conspicuously in the religious,
moral and civic uplift of the city. It has been served by an array of prominent ministers,
chief among whom are J. Harvey Anderson, J. S. Coles, Wm. Chambers, J. B. Colbert, H. P. Kyler,
William Dixon, S. L. Corrothers, George C. Clement, and William D. Battle. During Mr. Battle's
administration the church was relieved of its long-standing debt and the well begun work was
steadily developed.[25]

The next efforts in the District of Columbia were of the Baptists. Albert Bouldin, who began
public prayer services near Fourth and L Streets in 1857, was a prominent influence in the
organization of the Third Baptist Church.[26] On June 20, 1858 there was held a council of
ministers at which were present G. W. Sampson, Chauncey A. Leonard, A. Rothwell, Lindsey Muse,
Evans Stott, Henry H. Butler, Sandy Alexander, and L. Patten. There were also the following
laymen: Joseph Pryor, Joseph Alexander, N. Nookes, Henry Scott, John Minor, Charles Alexander,
and Austin Robinson. The trustees were William B. Jefferson, Joseph Alexander, Henry Scott,
Charles Alexander, Vernon Duff, and Henry Nookes, who assisted in effecting the organization
and served it as the first deacons.

In 1863 there was secured on Fourth and L Streets a lot on which the people began to erect
their meeting house. On account of disputes, four years afterward it became necessary to look
elsewhere, and William B. Jefferson became the controlling spirit. Then a lot was purchased
on Franklin Street between Fourth and Fifth at a cost of $1,198.50. In September, 1871, the
church was dedicated. Rev. D. W. Anderson, at that time pastor of the Nineteenth Street Baptist
Church, delivered the sermon. After a lapse of thirteen years, August 2, 1884, another lot
situated on the corner of Fifth and Que Streets was purchased.[27] The next forward movement
was toward the erection of a new building which was completed July 1893 at a cost of $26,000
and dedicated the fifth Sunday of July 1893.[28]

There soon followed another significant undertaking. After preaching regularly to four persons
for four years, Sandy Alexander organized on October 5, 1862, the First Baptist Church of West
Washington. Two of the four pioneer members were from churches in Fredericksburg, Virginia.
Dr. G. W. Sampson, president of Columbian College, subsequently Columbian University, now the
George Washington University, was of great service to Mr. Alexander in this work of the organization
of this church. The church was first located on the corner of Greene and Beale Street, Georgetown,
where it remained one year, after which a lot was purchased at the corner of Dumbarton and
27th Streets and a large frame building was first constructed at a cost of $15,000.[29] From
this church there have been regularly organized the Macedonia, the First Baptist Church of
Rosslyn, Virginia, and the Memorial Baptist Church in Maryland.

The Baptists were at the same time receiving recruits from another source. In June, 1862, while
a destructive war was being waged by the Southern States against the Union, warning was given
that a terrible siege was to be started against the city of Fredericksburg, Virginia. This
news caused between three and four hundred members of the Shiloh Baptist Church of that town
to leave for Washington as a place of refuge. After arriving there many tearful eyes were turned
toward the dear old church of their childhood and riper years, where "many a pleasant hour
had been enjoyed, and it was only natural for these fellow church members to plan for a place
where they might once more gather in prayer and praise God for their deliverance from the ravages
of war."[30] Home gatherings were frequent among these refugees and in this way the organization
of the present church was effected.

Shiloh Baptist Church, like many other churches, had its beginning in a Sunday School.[31]
The constant meeting of these seekers after the truth served to keep a number of them in close
touch with each other and intensified the desire for a church of their own. They then began
to meet in each other's houses for prayer and for conference upon the subject and soon resolved
to have a Shiloh Baptist Church in Washington, since they could not return to Shiloh Church
in Fredericksburg. It was at one of these prayer meetings in the bedroom of Henry D. Peyton
in an old brick house on K Street, between 26th and 27th Streets, in Georgetown (now West Washington)
that Shiloh Baptist Church of Washington had its beginnings in September, 1863.[32]

Having formed the church, the founders sent a communication to the various Baptist churches
of Washington, both white and black, asking that a council be called to consider the propriety
of recognizing them as a regularly constituted Baptist church. The Negro Baptist churches gave
these petitioners no encouragement and sent no delegates to the council, but the white Baptist
churches sent a number of their members, deacons, and pastors, as delegates, who met in the
First white Baptist church, located at that time on 13th Street between G and H Streets, Northwest,
at eight o'clock Wednesday evening, September 23, 1863, and formed a recognition council. Dr.
G. W. Sampson, pastor of the First Baptist Church and President of Columbian College, was chosen
Moderator, and John S. Poler, clerk. After approving the credentials of the delegates the Moderator
stated the purpose of the meeting. He further stated that the council had also been asked to
examine William J. Walker as to his fitness and qualification for the gospel ministry, and
if found worthy to ordain him, as the church had called him as its pastor and recommended his
ordination.[33] It was so ordered and done by the council.

The church continued to meet in the homes of the members, but it grew so rapidly that it soon
became necessary to secure larger quarters. The little frame building on the north side of
L Street, between 16th and 17th Northwest, was then bought, and the church moved into it and
remained there until 1868. The church prospered greatly and soon outgrew its first meeting
house. Steps were then taken to purchase a site and erect a building sufficiently large to
accommodate the growing membership. The present lot was secured, and in 1868 a commodious frame
structure was erected thereon and used until 1883, when the church tore down the frame building
and erected upon the same spot the present brick edifice.

William J. Walker, the first pastor, played a large part in building up the Baptist denomination
in the District of Columbia and adjoining States. He organized four churches in Washington,
namely, Zion Baptist, Enon Baptist, Mt. Zion Baptist and Mt. Jezreel Baptist churches, and
two churches in Virginia, all of which are strong and prosperous organizations. He also founded
the Baptist Sunday School Union and the Woman's Baptist Home Mission Society.

For a year or more after the death of William J. Walker the church remained without a pastor.
During the greater part of this time William H. Scott served as supply, and it was while he
was serving the church that the Walker Memorial Baptist Church was formed out of the members
who drew out of Shiloh. Dr. J. Anderson Taylor became pastor in 1890 and remained with the
church until near the close of 1906. During his ministry the church greatly increased in membership,
and enlarged its building at a cost of $10,000. When Dr. Taylor gave up the pastorate of the
church about 200 members withdrew from Shiloh and formed the Trinity Baptist Church and called
him to take charge thereof. Shiloh Baptist Church, then, has been divided twice within twenty-three
years. In spite of these handicaps, however, the church has prospered financially, numerically
and spiritually. Dr. J. Milton Waldron took formal charge of Shiloh Baptist Church on the 6th
of June 1907 and has labored with success in edifying his congregation and extending the influence
of the church.[34]

While the organization of Shiloh Church was being effected in the northern section of Washington,
there was in the southwest also another group from Fredericksburg. This effort resulted in
the establishment of the Zion Baptist Church. They first organized a Sunday and day school
in Jackson's School House on Delaware Avenue and L Street, Southwest. Their next movement was
the organization of a church, September 12, 1864, with nine members. They bought what was then
known as Simpson's Feed Store on the present site of the church, and remodeled this building
in 1867; William J. Walker was its founder and first pastor. In January, 1869, William Gibbons
of Charlottesville, Virginia, became the pastor and under his temporal and spiritual oversight
the church flourished. The first church edifice was dedicated in 1871 and for twenty-one years
was used by the congregation. In 1891 the present structure was built at an expenditure of
$35,000. The membership at the forty-eighth anniversary was 2,310, the largest at the time
in the District of Columbia. Up to the close of the nineteenth century they raised annually
on an average of $8,000 for current expenses. Their present pastor, William J. Howard, has
a unique record as being one of the best known ministers and men in the city, regardless of
denomination, and with a character beyond reproach.[35]

The Metropolitan, formerly known as the Fourth Baptist Church, was organized May 1863 by a
few holding letters from the Nineteenth Street Baptist Church during the pastorate of Duke
W. Anderson, and by a few members from other churches. Henry Bailey was the first pastor of
the new group. In 1865 there took place a division of this body which resulted in the establishment
of the Fifth, now the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church. The organization was effected in a mission
building which stood in the intersection of what is now E Street and Vermont Avenue. Two contending
parties, both claiming to be the Fourth Baptist Church, were then engaged in presenting their
rival claims. Four church councils were held before it was established which one had the right
to bear the title Fourth. Robert Johnson took charge in 1870, seven years after the original
movement. Under him the establishment prospered.

Four buildings have been used as church edifices in the history of this congregation, the mission
building referred to above, the barracks, a relic of the Civil War, and a frame structure on
the site of the present edifice, which at that time of its dedication in 1884 was valued at
$60,000; but today the valuation, conservatively speaking, may be placed at $175,000. From
1865 to 1890 the membership was about 2,000, 1,100 of whom were baptized by Robert Johnson.
The first Washington Baptist Convention composed of churches principally of the District of
Columbia requested in September, 1890, that the church be called the Metropolitan. The congregation
formally agreed to bear the title and since then Metropolitan has been its legal as well as
its popular name.

After securing the services of Dr. M. W. D. Norman, who came from Portsmouth, Virginia, in
1905, the progress of the church has been such as to merit fully the title Metropolitan. On
his assumption of the pastorate, a large floating and bonded indebtedness rested on the church.
This has been discharged and modern improvements of electricity and steam heating at the cost
of $15,000 have been provided. Yet there is not a dollar of indebtedness and the membership
has increased to 5,748.

The following ministers have been ordained by the Metropolitan Baptist Church: Charles H. Parker,
W. Bishop Johnson, John A. Pryer, Edward B. Gordon, Anderson Hogan, Luke D. Best, William Richardson,
William Johnson, E. R. Jackson, John Braxton, John Mercer, Noah Grimes, Levi Washington, and
W. L. Hill.[36]

The Baptist church on Vermont Avenue between Q and R Streets was originally established as
the Fifth Baptist Church, June 5, 1866, by the pious J. H. Brooks, with seven members. He built
a frame structure which was afterward replaced by a more comfortable brick building. Under
him the congregation grew and in 1884, when he died the church had a membership of 1,800. He
had served his people well, impressed the community with his worth, and passed to his reward
loved not only by his own members but by the Christian people throughout the city.

He was succeeded by Dr. George W. Lee, who came to this church from North Carolina where he
had served successfully as a pastor. Dr. Lee was installed in 1885 and served a quarter of
a century, passing away on February 6, 1910. There were several important achievements during
his pastorate. In 1890, at a cost of about $25,000, he remodeled the building left by J. H.
Brooks and changed the name to Vermont Avenue Baptist Church. Being a great preacher and pastor
noted for his originality and his ability to master the situation, he soon attracted a large
following and increased the membership of his church almost to 4,000. He easily became a man
of national reputation and in his travels abroad so impressed the people wherever he went that
he developed into an international character.

Dr. Lee was noted especially for three significant elements in his character. Near to his heart
was the promotion of African missions in keeping with his deep sense of charity. He was always
a friend of the poor and, being such, emphasized more than any other duty of the church that
of supporting missionary work in Africa. As a result the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church did
more for this purpose than many other churches of the District of Columbia combined. He was
always disposed, moreover, to help the under man in the struggle with his uncharitable accusers
and traducers. When a minister was under fire, he usually stood by the unfortunate, if there
was any possible chance to save him for the good of the service. He made himself, too, a patron
of young men aspiring to the ministry, raising money for their support by impressing upon the
people the importance of educating them. In this connection he trained and helped to support
Dr. James E. Willis, who was baptized, licensed and ordained to preach under Dr. Lee. Through
contact the one became attached to the other so that the younger imbibed the spirit of the other.

Dr. Willis became his successor in 1911. At first many of the members questioned his ability
to fill such a position so that there developed much trouble in the congregation and much anxiety
among the people at large. There followed a schism which resulted in litigation in the courts
and the secession of a group of members who established the Florida Avenue Baptist Church,
now in the charge of Dr. Taylor. Dr. Willis, however, was established as pastor with the support
of a large majority of the members of the church. He filled the position with such distinction
and attracted to him such a following of willing workers that the church prospered under him
as it did under his predecessor. In recognition of his valuable services the congregation gave
him a trip to the Holy Land at a cost of $3,000. It then purchased adjoining property upon
which it erected a monument to Dr. George W. Lee.

According to a recent report rendered by the clerk and treasurer, the congregation has during
the pastorate of Dr. Willis raised more than $68,000 for general expenses and $1,850 for their
Old Folk's Home. This does not by any means account for the amount raised for charitable purposes,
which include home and foreign missions. The support given needy members and institutions of
learning, traveling ministers, and the like, has amounted approximately to $35,000 or $40,000.
The church, moreover, has been very generous in the support of home missions, a duty decidedly
emphasized by Dr. Willis in contradistinction to the inclination of Dr. Lee, who emphasized
foreign missions.[36a]

Baptists in another part of the city were planning an additional organization. The First Baptist
Church of South Washington was organized on Sixth Street between G and H Streets, Southwest,
in 1866. Alfred Bolden was the first pastor. Two buildings have been erected on the present
site. One Mr. Lee afterward served as the pastor until the coming of Henry C. Robinson, who
exhibited energy that promised a bright future. Early in the history of the church, as an outcome
of an internal agitation, however, 54 excluded members organized the Virginia Avenue Baptist
Church and were afterward joined by others, thus weakening the parent organization; but in
1891 the property was valued at $25,000 and the church had a membership of 500.[37]

Another Baptist church soon resulted from a secession. In 1873 William Shanklin, Peter Gray,
Abraham Blackmore, Edward Montague, and Catherine Wilson left the Fifth Baptist Church, now
the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, and formed, with their friends, Mt. Jezreel. Since then
it has grown to be the largest Negro Baptist church in Southeast Washington, though it is also
the youngest. The church, when first formed, was located on Van Street. It grew rapidly, and
soon was able to buy desirable property on the southeast corner of Fifth and E Streets and
begin the erection of its present handsome church edifice. In 1888 the building was finished
and it was dedicated the first Sunday in November of that year, when Dr. Robert Johnson, of
the Metropolitan Baptist Church, preached the dedicatory sermon. Its membership numbers about
300 people, and the church is in a very prosperous condition.[38]

The organization of another Baptist church soon followed. In September, 1876, there was organized
on Nichol's Avenue, Hillsdale, the Bethlehem Baptist Church by Henry Scott, its first pastor.
It was an outgrowth from the Macedonia Baptist Church organized nine years before by Sandy
Alexander, of the First West Washington Church. The first officers were William Singleton,
Carle Matthews, James Flood, Richard Harrison, Mack McKenzie, Cornelius W. Davis, David Simpson,
Armstead Taylor, and Leonard Peyton.[39] The second minister, William H. Phillips, served with
considerable success for six years when he was called to the Shiloh Baptist Church in Philadelphia,
where he died.[40]

A new church was soon to evolve as a result of another stir among the Baptists. The succession
of the pastorates of Dr. Anthony Binga, Sr., and Jesse Bolden to that of Dr. D. W. Anderson
did not satisfy an important element of the 19th Street Baptist Church, which for fifteen years
had given that church moral and financial support. Steps to organize a new church were therefore
taken. In the preliminary stages of the separation there was much opposition. Nevertheless,
they organized May 7, 1877, at the residence of William H. A. Wormley, 1126 16th Street, Northwest,
and were recognized by a council of Baptist churches which met at the residence of L. C. Bailey,
1022 Nineteenth Street, June 5, 1877.[41] With twenty-two members this determined body went
pluckily to work. In the first place, they were fortunate in securing for their pastor a man
who for thirteen years voluntarily served the flock without salary. For twenty-five years,
1877 to 1902, they worshipped in their church on 18th Street, which was erected within six
months of organization for the sum of $19,000. The church grew from 22 to 200. It is a fair
estimate that $50,000 was received from all sources during this period. In 1902 they sold this
church to the John Wesley A. M. E. Zion for $19,500 cash. After vacating their building and
meeting in Odd Fellows Hall they erected their present building at 11th and V Streets, which
they have paid for in full. The successor to Mr. Wm. Waring was Dr. W. A. Creditt.[42] Then
came Dr. J. M. Waldron, who in 1892 was succeeded by Rev. Mr. D. F. Rivers, who still abides
as a potent factor in the life of the Washington people.

After the Civil War Negroes became attracted to denominations in which they had never sought
membership because of their close attachment to the Methodists and Baptists. From just such
a divergence from the old order resulted the organization of the Lincoln Memorial Temple Congregational
Church, on the northeast corner of 11th and R Streets, Northwest. This church was organized
in the parlor of F. S. Presbrey, publisher of Public Opinion, January 10, 1887, with Rev. S.
P. Smith as its first pastor. Lincoln Temple is the outgrowth of the Colfax Industrial Mission
founded by members of the First Congregational Church, prominent among whom was John W. Alvord.
It later became the Lincoln Mission. In addition to the Sunday School feature should be mentioned
the industrial work, as classes in domestic science and domestic art were conducted there.
For a time this mission constituted the first church home for Negro girls in the country. Among
its founders were R. S. Smith, William H. Jackson, Theodore Clark and wife, Otwina Smith, Miss
Booker, Hiram Ball, a Mrs. Jackson of Chicago and a Mr. Shorter. The Lincoln Mission Sunday
School, with an attendance running at times to 700 and more, was a part of the work of the
charitable organizations of the North engaged in missions and education in the South among
the freedmen. As such it was one of the institutions of the city in Sabbath School work, with
music especially popular. This school enjoyed the fostering care of the American Missionary
Association, which appointed a minister to conduct religious services and a woman to work in
the homes of the people. The teachers of the Sunday School were of both races. The whites were
drawn from the First Congregational Church and Negroes were mainly students from Howard University.

During the operation of these two instrumentalities, the thought that the work of the school
could be made more effectual and permanent by the organization of a church first took tangible
form in the years of Mr. Smith's ministrations, and the church grew steadily and surely. Rev.
George W. Moore became pastor on June 1, 1883. His work was a thorough success, due in no small
measure to the personality of his wife, Ella Sheppard Moore, who had been pianist of the Fisk
Jubilee Singers and with them had circled the globe. Dr. Moore resigned in 1893. Subsequent
pastors have been Rev. Eugene Johnson, A. P. Miller and Sterling N. Brown. Dr. Brown was followed
by Rev. Emory B. Smith, an enterprising young man who has brought the church to the very foremost
in all the activities of religious work.[43]

The Plymouth Congregational Church was the direct outcome of dissatisfaction of many members
of Union Bethel, now the Metropolitan Church, at the arbitrary action of Bishop Daniel A. Payne
in the matter of the appointment of the Rev. John W. Stevenson as pastor of Union Bethel Church
and the refusal to remove him. For these reasons 63 members decided to withdraw from the African
Methodist Episcopal denomination and organized themselves in the Shiloh Hall on L Street, near
16th, Northwest, as the First Congregational Church of Washington in the District of Columbia.
William T. Peele, who for several years had been a local preacher and class leader at Union
Bethel Church was one of the number--in fact, the leader of the recalcitrant communicants.
Church services for the new congregation were held in the meeting place of the Salem Baptist
Church on N Street near 17th. Here they could meet only in the afternoon on Sunday. Other quarters
were then secured on 18th Street near L and M Streets. On October 5, 1881, the name of the
new organization was changed to that of the Plymouth Congregational Church of Washington. Their
leader, William T. Peele, was then regularly ordained and installed as their pastor by Dr.
Holmes of Baltimore, assisted by Dr. J. E. Rankin, then pastor of First Congregational Church,
Dr. William Patton, President of Howard University, W. W. Hicks, and S. P. Smith. The church
attached itself to the New Jersey Association of Congregational Churches at the fourteenth
annual meeting held in the First Congregational Church in April, 1882. The church then purchased
at a cost of $4,500 a site at the southeast corner of 17th and P Streets, on which it built
by 1887.

William T. Peele, to whom this body rallied as its first pastor tendered his resignation July
26, 1888, and for several months the church was without a pastor. Dr. Sterling N. Brown of
Cleveland, Ohio, entered upon the pastorate April 1, 1887, and rendered a most successful service.
Under his guidance they evolved steadily from Methodism to Congregationalism.

Dr. Alexander C. Garner became the next pastor in 1896 and for twenty-five years led the church
both temporally and spiritually. The church has been honored by his being chosen to represent
the Congregationalists at national gatherings. The entire church mortgage debt was cancelled
during Dr. Garner's incumbency, when all the churches were making strenuous and successful
efforts to the same end. In fact, his successful career had much to do with his call to the
direction of the growing spiritual interests of the Congregationalists in Harlem in New York.[44]

Some Negroes, too, had begun to look with more favor upon the Protestant Episcopal church.
As early as 1866 cottage meetings were held by C. H. Hall, rector of the Epiphany, with the
assistance of J. Vaughn Lewis, rector of St. John's Church. This movement went to the extent
that steps were taken looking to the establishment of a church and the purchase of a lot on
which an edifice was to be built. At this juncture Mrs. Parsons, a communicant of St. John's
parish, donated a lot for the purpose on 23d Street, and Secretary of War E. M. Stanton contributed
a frame building in 1867. From 1867 to 1873 several white clergymen officiated, but the selection
of a colored minister to take charge of the work was indispensable. Efforts to this end soon
followed. Among the clergymen considered were William H. Josephus, a talented West Indian,
and William J. Alston, who had been rector of St. Phillip's in New York and of St. Thomas in
Philadelphia. John Thomas Johnson, a progressive Negro citizen who in the reconstruction times
was Treasurer of the District Government, began on behalf of a number of interested people
a correspondence with Dr. Alexander Crummell with a view to securing him as the spiritual leader
of these Episcopalians. This effort resulted in bringing Dr. Crummell to Washington in June, 1873.

The people almost instantaneously rallied to Dr. Crummell's support and the outcome was the
determination to build a church. A sinking fund association, composed of young people from
different sections of the city, and in which other denominations were represented, was a most
active factor. The enthusiasm was intense. The corner stone was laid in 1876 at Fifteenth and
Sampson Streets, near Church Street, and work on the new building went rapidly on. Dr. Crummell
meanwhile traveled extensively throughout the North and East for funds in aid of the new movement.
Such was his success that the first services in the new building were held there on Thanksgiving
Day, November 27, 1879.[45]

With the opening of St. Luke's a new opportunity presented itself at St. Mary's, where the
congregation under the administration of Mr. O. L. Mitchell developed into an institutional
church. It was consecrated December 11, 1894, by Bishop William Paret, then of Maryland, assisted
by Bishop Penick and Dr. W. V. Tunnell, of Howard University, who preached the sermon. St.
Mary's is one of the most beautiful of churches.

The rise of Negro Catholic churches in the District of Columbia as well as throughout the United
States has been less extensive for the reason that not very many Negroes have been attracted
to this denomination because of its ritualistic appeal, and those who have become adherents
to the Catholic faith have been treated with so much more of the spirit of Christ than they
have been by other sects, that the tendency toward independent church establishments has not
been so pronounced. Early in the history of the District of Columbia Rev. Leonard Neale, the
Archbishop of Georgetown, his brother, the Rev. Francis Neale of the Holy Trinity Church, and
Father Van Lomell, pastor of the same church in 1807, were all friends of the Negroes, showing
no distinction on account of color in the establishment of parish schools and the uplift of
the people. The same policy was followed by Father De Theux, who in 1817 succeeded Father Macelroy,
who established a Sunday School and labored with a great deal of devotion to bring them into
the church. The Catholic Church was free in all of its privileges to all persons regardless
of color. This was especially true of St. Patrick's Church under its founder, Father Matthew,
who permitted the poorest Negro to kneel at the altar side by side with the highest personages
in the land. The same was observed in St. Aloysius Church and in St. Mary's Church at Alexandria.
The Catholics were the last to change their attitude toward the Negro during the critical antislavery
period of the thirties, forties, and fifties, when the Protestant churches practically excluded
the Negroes from their Sunday Schools and congregations. This explains why the Negro Catholics
organized in the District of Columbia during the early period only one Catholic church of their
own, St. Martin's, although the Negro Catholics constituted a considerable part of the Negro
population.

The actual separation of the Negroes in the Catholic Church did not take place until the Civil
War itself necessitated certain changes to meet the special needs of the Negroes in their new
status. The establishment of St. Augustine's Church, however, somewhat antedated this. Before
the organization of this church there was established a school meeting the special needs of
the Negroes on L Street, and out of that developed the organization of this church in 1863.
The moving spirit in this undertaking was Father Charles J. White, who was then pastor of St.
Matthew's church in which the Negroes had always felt free to worship. Early in 1863 he purchased
a lot on 15th Street between L and M and built there a two-story structure with the assistance
of colored members from the various churches of the city and especially from those of St. Matthew's.
Among those participating in the launching of this new church were the following: Miss Mary
Harrison, Mr. Isaac Landic and wife, Mrs. Jane Smallwood, Mrs. Henry Warren and family, Mr.
and Mrs. William Henry Smith, the Misses Mary and Sara Ann Smith, Mr. William T. Benjamin,
Mr. Bazil Mullen, Mr. John West, Miss Agnes Gray, Messrs. William H. Wheeler, Henry Jackson,
Henry Neal and family, James F. Jackson and family, Mrs. Frances Madison, and the Misses Eliza
Ann Cook, Mary T. Smith, Eliza Hall, and Jane Teagle.

In the course of time there were so many accessions to the church that more space was needed.
In 1865, therefore, a frame building was added at the time that the church was under the patronage
of Martin de Porrers, a colored lay brother of the order of St. Dominic, who had labored in
South America. Dr. White was still the pastor, with Martin de Porrers officiating at most of
the services. In the course of time it was necessary to seek other assistants, who were supplied
by the Society of Jesus at Georgetown College in the person of Fathers Kelly and Cleary.

After the Civil War Archbishop Spaulding, then in charge of the diocese, saw the opportunity
and the challenge of the church to meet the many needs of the freedmen who without spiritual
guidance might morally retrograde. He therefore called for other workers to offer their lives
as a sacrifice to a noble cause. In Italy at this time there was Father Barroti, who after
having equipped himself for missionary work prepared to carry the Gospel message to the Chinese.
In 1869, however, he was persuaded to go to the more inviting field of the freedmen in the
United States. After some further instruction in English and other matters essential to the
equipment for service among these people, he took charge of this Negro congregation in 1867.
He immediately succeeded in securing the cooperation of the Negroes and the respect of the
community. He passed among them as a man of Christian virtue and an apostle to the lowly. His
following so rapidly increased that it was soon necessary to add wooden buildings to the original
structure and to purchase additional property for a new building in 1869. To finance these
undertakings he had the cooperation of Father Walters in St. Patrick's.

The new structure, planned to cost about $100,000, was begun in 1874 and completed and dedicated
in the midst of impressive ceremonies in 1876. At first it was thought best to place this church
under the patronage of the Blessed Martin de Porrers. According to the regulation of the church
law, however, whereas a chapel could be designated in honor of an ecclesiastic, a parish church
could not be thus dedicated, but must be named for one of the Saints. It was then decided to
name it for St. Augustine, Bishop of Hippo in Africa. Upon the completion of this structure
the Negro Catholic congregation was given a new standing in the community and in the United States.

In 1881 the death of Father Barroti marked an epoch in the history of this church. For some
time there was serious doubt as to how the congregation could secure the services of some one
so well equipped as this sacrificing churchman. Fortunately, however, the zealous Fathers of
St. Joseph, an order established in England for the special benefit of the Negroes, came to
take up the task. Thoroughly devoted to their work and believing in the uplift of the Negroes
to a plane of equality with the whites, these Fathers caused the white Catholics much trouble
by imposing upon those visiting St. Augustine's the same restrictions that some of the Catholic
churches after the Civil War began to impose upon Negroes worshipping elsewhere. Chief among
these may be mentioned Fathers Michael J. Walsh as rector, with Father Girard Wiersma and Father
Francis P. Kerrick as associate pastors. Later he had such assistants as Father Burke and Father
Hohlman. The successor of Father Walsh was the Rev. Paul Griffith, with Father G. A. Dougherty
as assistant and later an additional assistant in the person of the Rev. Father H. Bischoff.
Father Olds succeeded Father Griffith, having as his assistant Father O'Connor and Father Mihm.
As the church had the cooperation of Archbishop Spaulding in his day, it was similarly assisted
by Archbishop Baily and especially so by Archbishop Gibbons, later Cardinal. Among the teachers
who made possible the increasing membership by their valuable work in the parochial school
of the church should be mentioned Miss Mary Smith, later Mrs. W. F. Benjamin, Mr. Ambrose Queen,
and Miss Eliza Ann Cook.[46]

Negro Catholics living in East Washington and worshippers at St. Peter's and St. Joseph's churches,
desirous of having a church of their own, were responsive to the labors of Father James R.
Matthews, assistant pastor of St. Peter's. He was a native of Johnstown, Pennsylvania, had
studied at St. Charles College and St. Mary's Seminary in the diocese of Maryland, and was
ordained a priest in 1886. He worked so assiduously and energetically for the new congregation
here at Washington, which was then known as St. Benedict's, that a site for their building
was purchased on the corner of 13th and C Streets, Southeast, about the middle of April, 1893.
The work of excavation was begun on the last day of July and the corner stone was laid on the
24th of September of that year. Less than eight months afterward the church was complete and
ready for public worship. An imposing parade, participated in by uniformed white and Negro
Catholic societies of Baltimore and Washington, was a feature of the occasion. Cardinal Gibbons
dedicated the Church as St. Cyprian.[47]

                                        JOHN W. CROMWELL

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This dissertation was written from facts obtained from these churches and their pastors
and verified by reference to books and newspapers. The most important source was the Special
Report of the U. S. Commissioner of Education on the Schools of the District of Columbia, pp.
197 et seq.

[3a] After the Civil War "Little Ebenezer" entered upon a new career. The white pastors who
up to this time had been serving this congregation were replaced by ministers of color, the
first one being Noah Jones. About 1874 the property of the church was transferred from the
white church to the local organization. Placed upon this advantageous basis, the success of
this congregation soon entitled that church to rank among the leading Negro churches of the
city. C. G. Keyes built the first church edifice. Under C. G. Walker, who came later, there
were added so many more new members that a new building was necessary to accommodate the congregation.
Then came W. H. Draper, Alexander Dennis, and finally Dr. M. W. Clair. Using the plans devised
by Dr. M. W. Clair, now Bishop of the M. E. Church, John H. Griffin built the edifice which
is today used by the Ebenezer Church. This church was later served by W. T. Harris, E. W. S.
Peck, and more recently by the efficient S. H. Brown and W. H. Dean, who did much to promote
the religious life and expand the work of the present flourishing congregation now under the
direction of J. W. Waters.

[4] From records preserved by Miss H. H. Beason.

[5] The time for radical changes was approaching when the political discussions of the time
were affecting Washington and all elements of its population. It was not until the Civil War
was in its third year that Mt. Zion felt the change, and this was by the organization of the
Washington Annual M. E. Conference in 1864. Had it not been effected at this time, it is doubtful
if the M. E. Church would have been able to make much headway in Virginia with the Negro members
who up to that time were counted a part of the M. E. South, worshipping in the same edifice
as the whites and under such conditions as to give rise to little or no friction. The Civil
War was in its last year, and there had been no opportunity before this time for the M. E.
Church to secure Negro members to any extent. The A. M. E. Church, moreover, had already got
a foothold in Norfolk and Portsmouth where the Union armies had triumphed, as early as 1862,
and in 1865 the A. M. E. Zion Church secured a large following with valuable property in Petersburg.

Bishop Levi Scott, who organized the Washington Conference, was not concerned primarily for
such churches in Baltimore as Sharp Street, Asbury, and Mt. Zion in Washington, but he was
looking beyond the Potomac. At any rate he organized with four members and in 1864 sent to
Mt. Zion Rev. John H. Brice, who thus became their first Negro pastor. Mt. Zion then had a
membership of 317. Rev. Mr. Brice was reappointed in 1865. He was succeeded in 1866 by Rev.
N. W. Carroll, whose career as an aggressive minister is that of one of the very first in his
denomination. Rev. Mr. Carroll served three years and was an elder when his successor, Rev.
Henry R. Elbert, was appointed in 1869.

Following Mr. Elbert came Rev. G. T. Pinkney, under whose administration the planning of a
new structure first took form, and $1,500 for the purpose was deposited in the Freedmen's Bank.
Rev. Mr. Pinkney was succeeded by Rev. George Lewis, who raised $1,600 for the building fund.
Then came the Rev. Benjamin Brown, one of the useful pastors of the Negro church, a man whose
reputation was coextensive with the confines of the Washington Conference, which at that time
included Virginia and West Virginia as well as Maryland and the District of Columbia.

The desire for a new edifice increased, and the people contributed liberally. At the time of
the suspension of the Freedmen's Bank in 1874 the church had on deposit $2,500. The effect
of the failure of the bank was most disastrous. There was a cessation of effort for a time,
but under the magnetic and masterly leadership of Rev. Mr. Brown the people rallied, and $624
was collected in one day toward the new building. The time had come for a forward movement.
The members were called together March 24, 1875. The question of rebuilding was discussed thoroughly
and with but ten dissenting votes the proposition was endorsed and the trustees, thus empowered,
undertook the purchase of a lot on Twenty-ninth Street, between Dunbarton and O Streets, from
Mr. Alfred Pope, one of their number, for $25.

The work on the new edifice was begun. Meanwhile Rev. Mr. Brown was reappointed and the cornerstone
was laid, the ceremony being performed by the Good Samaritans. Then came Rev. R. A. Read, who
subsequently became pastor at Asbury. Rev. James Dansbury followed Mr. Brown and gave a good
account of himself. In 1880 Rev. James D. S. Hall, an eloquent preacher, who had done very
creditable work in different parts of the country and who had served successfully in the A.
M. E. Church as well as in the M. E. Conferences, was appointed. His appointment was the signal
for new life. The cornerstone was relaid, this time under the authority of the Masons. The
next morning the building when only five feet high was discovered on fire. Dissatisfaction
crept in the flock, lawsuits followed, and there was formed a separate A. M. E. body, with
Rev. James T. Morris as its first pastor. Mt. Zion kept on nevertheless, and the first services
were held in the new structure October 30, 1880, although the building was without roof or
plaster. The subsequent history of Mt. Zion until the close of the nineteenth century was notable
for its steady progress.

[6] In 1869 a bill passed both houses of Congress to transfer the authority of the separate
management of the Negro schools to the white board. The colored people became alarmed. Israel
Church opened its doors for a mass meeting and under the leadership of John F. Cook a strong
protest against the legislation was voiced. The other churches were asked to follow and endorse
the stand taken at Israel. They did so; the President, Andrew Johnson, refused to sign the
bill and the schools remained intact under Negro management until 1900.

[7] Israel was the church above all which made itself an example for other independent churches
in Washington. Mt. Zion in Georgetown had been acting as an organized church since 1816. Until
1830, however, it had no records. It had no Negro pastor for forty-eight years and no trustees
until 1866.

[8] Payne, History of the A. M. E. Church, p. 38.

[9] Some of the strongest men in that denomination were sent to Israel. Charles Wesley Fitzhugh,
Charles H. Phillips, R. S. Williams, N. S. Cleaves, and S. B. Wallace were among the number.
Phillips, Williams, and Cleaves became bishops, while Dr. Wallace, who died while pastor in
1895, was certainly one of the foremost pulpit orators in any of the Negro churches, without
exception, during the nineteenth century.

[10] From the records of this church.

[11] At this time there were eighteen classes at the Asbury and a membership of about 640.
A financial report for the year ending March 30, 1850, shows receipts of $829.17-1/2. Ten years
later the stewards' financial report gives $798.01. At the dedication of Asbury in 1869 a review
of its history was given by Benjamin McCoy, who was the most influential personage in the history
of this church. He was a colleague of John F. Cook, Sr. An extract from a report submitted
by him is very interesting, showing for the building the amount of the debt of the old Asbury,
$15,354.97, on which $11,610.97 was paid Downing and Brothers, $3,744 to Rogers and Cissil,
$1,257.48 paid to Morsell and Dearing, leaving a balance of $2,486.52.

[12] The order then follows: W. H. Waters, 1856; John J. Herbert, 1857; Michael F. Sluy, 1858;
Alexander W. Wayman, 1859; Daniel W. Moore, 1860-1861; James A. Handy, 1864 (6 weeks); James
D. S. Hall, 1864, 1865; James A. Handy, 1866, 1867; Richard A. Hall, 1868, 1869; Daniel P.
Seaton, M.D., 1870, 1871; Daniel Draper, 1872, 1873; Richard A. Hall, 1874; Joseph S. Thompson,
1875, 1876; George W. Brodie, 1877, 1878, 1879; Rev. John W. Stevenson, 1880, 1881.

Union Bethel finally became the Metropolitan Church in 1881. James A. Handy served in 1882,
1883, 1884; after which came Rev. George T. Watkins, 1885; Theophilus G. Steward in 1886 and
1887, and John T. Mitchell in 1888 and 1889.

[13] The organization of the Bethel Literary and Historical Association by Bishop Payne in
the early autumn of 1881 was an event worth chronicling because of its immediate influence
on the individual church, the community, the denomination and the entire country. For twenty-five
years the Bethel Literary in the fall and winter seasons was recognized as an intellectual
clearing house. In distant communities the reflex influence was just as unmistakable because
of the newspapers, whose Washington correspondents did not fail to register the utterances
and the discussions which the Literary occasioned.

[14] Union Bethel became the Metropolitan A. M. E. Church by order of the General Conference
of 1872, affirmed by that of 1876 and reaffirmed by its successor in 1880.

The church building is 80 x 120 with a sub-basement for domestic purposes and a basement above
grade containing lecture, Sunday School, library, and class rooms. The cost was $70,000 on
ground, the assessed valuation of which at the time of the erection of the edifice was $25,000.
The cornerstone was laid in 1881. The basement was opened for divine worship November 8, 1885,
and dedicated by Bishop A. W. Nayman, Dr. J. A. Handy, Dr. B. W. Arnett, and Dr. G. T. Watkins,
pastor. On the completion of the main auditorium services were first held Sunday, May 30, 1886.
When dedication features extending one week took place, John A. Simms, Andrew Twine, William
Beckett, John Shorter, George C. Brown, James Washington, Walter F. Hyson, George R. Dalley,
and J. T. Harris were the trustees.

In 1886 the new edifice was dedicated with elaborate exercises. T. G. Steward was the first
pastor to serve in the new building. After an administration of two years he was succeeded
by Dr. John G. Mitchell. John W. Beckett followed Dr. Mitchell in 1889 and remained three years.
In 1873 John T. Jenifer, who bears the distinction of being a member of the first graduating
class of Wilberforce University, was appointed and served three years. He was succeeded in
1896 by John Albert Johnson, who served a term of five years with unusual success. Daniel J.
Hill followed J. Albert Johnson and remained two years. Oscar J. W. Scott, who followed in
1903, filled out three terms and was serving his fourth when he received an appointment as
Chaplain in the 24th United States Infantry to succeed Chaplain T. G. Steward. John H. Welch,
named to succeed J. W. Scott, served two years and was appointed for the third when he suddenly
passed away to the intense sorrow of his congregation. Dr. Isaac N. Ross began in 1909 an incumbency
of five years.

In 1914 Dr. C. Harold Stepteau succeeded Dr. Ross and remained for three years. Dr. Stepteau
was succeeded in 1917 by Rev. Carlton M. Tanner. He at once bent his efforts toward the reduction
of the debt which had handicapped the progress of the church for a generation. Such was his
success that within two years he accomplished what had been regarded as an impossible task.
The event was made an occasion for great rejoicing, culminating in a thanksgiving service Monday
evening, January 27, 1919, which included among other features an address by the pastor, Dr.
Tanner, one by the presiding Bishop, John Albert Johnson, and an original poem by Dr. Robert
E. Ford. The most spectacular number was the burning of the fourteen thousand dollar mortgage
deed in the presence of the vast audience, the taper being applied by a committee of elderly
members who had been connected with the church for a score or more of years.

[15] One has said that not long thereafter they employed as temporary pastor the Rev. Mr. Nickens,
whose coming being unacceptable to some members of the congregation, caused about thirty to
secede, organizing a church by themselves. These seceding members were expelled and, as the
church property was deeded to the members of the church, there ensued a controversy as to the
title of the church, which for a number of years was in litigation between the mother church
and her offspring. See the Special Report of the United States Commissioner of Education on
the Schools of D. C., 311.

[16] During his school days Rev. Harvey Johnson of Baltimore was a follower of the Nineteenth
Street Baptist Church.

[17] This account was given by the present pastor of this church, Dr. W. H. Brooks.

The deacons during Dr. Brooks's pastorate have included some of the foremost men in the community.
Such men are William Coke, who was a deacon in 1840, John H. Beale, Nathaniel Gilmer, Henry
Jarvis, Linsey Muse, Albert Parker, William P. Pierre and William Syphax, while among the trustees
will be recalled Carter A. Stewart, Charles Lemos, David Clark, William B. Brooks, W. A. Johnson,
Edgar Ball and John H. Hunter. Among the local churches either directly or indirectly originated
in the Nineteenth Street Church are the Vermont Avenue, the Metropolitan, Berean, Pilgrim of
Brentwood, Salem and Israel Baptist Churches.

[18] The following persons constituted the church: John F. Cook, David Carroll, Jane Noland,
Mary Ann Tilghman, Clement Talbert, Lydia Williams, Elizabeth Carroll, Ann Brown, Charles Bruce,
Basil Gutridge, Clarissa Forest, John Madison, Catherine Madison, Ann Chew, Ruth Smith, Emily
Norris, Maria Newton, Alfred Cook and Eliza Stewart.

[19] See F. J. Grimké's Anniversary Address on the Occasion of the Seventy-fifth Anniversary
of the Fifteenth Street Presbyterian Church.

[20] A statement verified by the present pastor, Dr. J. L. S. Holloman.

In 1883 Dr. William Bishop Johnson accepted the call to the pastorate which, notwithstanding
its nearly forty years of struggle, had been reduced to a membership of less than one hundred.
During Dr. Johnson's pastorate a church edifice was erected in 1895 at a cost of $75,000, one
of the largest and most imposing in the city. An outstanding feature of Dr. Johnson's administration
was the organization of a Sunday School Lyceum in 1885 which was one of the most popular literary
organizations in the Capitol, meeting Sunday afternoons, when there were discussions of some
foremost topic by representative thinkers of both sexes and races. Notable among the presidents
of the Sunday School Lyceum were Mr. Jesse Lawson, Mr. R. D. Ruffin, and Mr. R. W. Thompson,
the newspaper correspondent. Johnson died in 1917 mourned by the congregation and community
as one of its leading preachers. Through his administration of the affairs the church became
one of the best known throughout the country because of the organizing abilities of the pastor
and his unusual ability. In 1917 the church called as pastor Dr. J. L. S. Holloman of Winton,
North Carolina. During his four years of service the church has been practically freed of debt
and has entered on a new era of progress.

[21] The present building was erected about 1886, by Dr. R. H. G. Dyson. The present pastor
is Rev. H. J. Callis, who easily takes rank in the city as one of its leading public-spirited
influences.

[22] This story is taken largely from records preserved by Mr. B. J. Grant, one of the oldest
members of this church.

[23] At the present time this plot of ground is covered by the Ebenezer A. M. E. Church.

[24] Two years later they erected another story, which remained intact until the church was
sold. The remodeling and addition cost $1,100. This property proved to be very valuable, as
they decided after many years to make it one of its most fashionable thoroughfares. Bought
for almost a pittance, this property had advanced in value to such an extent that the business
interests offered a high price for it and it was sold.

[25] A new edifice is being favorably considered to accommodate the growing congregation. A
building fund has been started for this purpose.

[26] This account was taken from the records of the Third Baptist Church.

[27] There were elected the following officers in 1885: W. C. Laws, Joseph Jones, Henry Hughes,
James H. West, Daniel Lewis, Moten Waites, and Joseph Montgomery. P. H. Umbles officiated during
the vacancy of the pulpit occasioned by the death of Mr. Jefferson, which occurred in October,
1885.

On March 19 James H. Lee of New Bedford, who had formerly been connected with the Third Baptist
Church, was called to the pastorate. He accepted and preached his inaugural sermon May 9 and
was installed on May 30. During the first seven years of his administration 242 members were
received by baptism, 49 by letter, 62 by experience, 59 by restoration. In the same period
24 were dismissed by letter, 65 excluded and 117 lost by deaths. A debt of $3,475.55 was paid
during this period including balance due on site. The collections aggregated $28,729.

[28] The following officers were then in charge: Deacons W. L. Laws, Daniel Lewis, Joseph Jones,
Joseph Montgomery, James H. West, Henry Hughes, and Moten Waites; and Trustees Alexander Peyton,
Henry C. Bolden, William Reynolds, Ottowa Nichols, Richard Basey, George Duff and Dennis Johnson.
After the death of Rev. James H. Lee, Rev. Mr. Bullock became the pastor.

[29] James L. Pinn is the present pastor, having served since September, 1916.

[30] Records of the Shiloh Baptist Church.

[31] About a year before the church was organized a number of Baptists, who with their children
afterward formed the church, met in a little shanty situated at that time on the south side
of L Street, just across from the present church house, and under the direction of J. McCleary
Perkins, a white Union soldier, formed a Sunday School. The members of this Sunday School were
largely adults of African descent, while the teachers were from both races. The Bible was the
book from which morals and religion were taught, and Webster's blueback speller was the constant
companion of children and parents while they were learning to read the Word of God. James H.
Payne succeeded Mr. Perkins as Superintendent of this school, and six months thereafter John
M. Washington succeeded Payne. These two men alternated as superintendents of this Sunday School
for ten or twelve years, and worked together faithfully until they succeeded in building up
a flourishing institution.

[32] Those who were in the original company that founded the church were Washington Whitlow,
John J. Taylor, J. Mason Wilson, George Armstead, Edward Brook, Clement Morgan, Henry Frazier,
Henry D. Payton, Griffin Saunders, Alfred Pendleton, James H. Payne, James G. Semple, Jane
Brown, Elizabeth Morgan, Annie Armstead, Lucy Davis and Rev. William J. Walker.

[33] The Moderator then informed the members of Shiloh that the Council was ready to hear their
statement, whereupon Henry Frazier, the senior deacon of the newly formed church, gave a history
of the organization and prosperity of Shiloh Baptist Church in Fredericksburg, from which the
members forming the new church had come. William J. Walker, who had been associated with the
Fredericksburg church for about twelve years, presented some interesting facts, and added:
"These brethren, who have been driven from their homes and scattered among strangers, long
to be gathered into a church, that they may worship God unitedly as they formerly did." Thereupon
A. Rothwell offered the following resolutions which were unanimously passed:

"Resolved, That we recognize with devout gratitude the good hand of our Heavenly Father, in
delivering these, His children, from the fetters of bondage, so that they may freely serve
Him, and more perfectly learn His Way, and we tender to them our cordial Christian sympathies,
as well as our prayers and our aid, in maintaining their church organization.

"Resolved, also, That we heartily approve the proposition of the brethren to be recognized
as a church, based upon the Christian doctrines and principles which are the foundation of
our denomination, and that we will cheerfully cooperate in the services appropriate to the
recognition of the Shiloh Baptist Church of Washington, D. C."

The following were the officers of the newly formed church: Deacons Henry Frazier, Clement
Morgan, James G. Semple, Edward Brook, James H. Payne, Henry D. Payton and Alfred Pendleton;
Trustees William J. Walker, Edward Brook, John J. Taylor, James H. Payne, Griffin Saunders,
Washington Whitlow and Henry D. Payton; John J. Taylor, church clerk, and J. McCleary Perkins,
Superintendent of the Sunday School.

William J. Walker, the first pastor of Shiloh Baptist Church, was a native of Fredericksburg,
Virginia. He was born of free parents and was about 72 years of age at the time of his death,
in 1889. He was a printer by trade, and enjoyed considerable educational advantages for the
times in which he lived. He was a wise leader, an untiring worker, and a faithful and able
minister of the gospel.

[34] This is a condensed account furnished Dr. J. M. Waldron.

[35] These facts were obtained from the church records.

[36] A statement verified by the present pastor.

[36a] A statement made by the clerk of the church.

[37] A statement made by a number of old members of the church.

[38] The records of the church.

[39] Their first meeting house was erected with a seating capacity of 300 at a cost of $800;
the second, which would seat 500, cost $2,000. With their more than 150 membership they raised
$1,000 annually and expended $850 on current expenses.

[40] These are facts given by the officers of this church.

[41] J. W. Parker, pastor of the E Street Baptist Church, was moderator, and Lalmon Richards,
of the North Baptist Church, was clerk of this council. The organization consisted of twenty-two
members, 10 men and 12 women: James Storum, Wormley, White, Harrod, Denney, Bailey, John Pierre
Randolph, Rowe, Page, Mrs. Wormley, Mrs. Anderson, widow of D. W. Anderson, Eliza Jackson,
Mary Jackson, Thompson, Pierre, Denney, White, Farley, Bailey and Watson.

[42] This is an abridged statement verified by the church itself.

[43] This is based on a statement made by this church.

[44] This account is based on the records of this church.

[45] These facts were obtained from the records of the church.

[46] These facts as to Negro Catholics were taken from records in the form of a church monthly
newspaper in the possession of Dr. John F. Smith.

[47] The sermon was delivered by Dr. O'Gorman. The edifice is an imposing structure of Potomac
blue stone, granite basement with trimmings of Baltimore County marble. A slate roof crowns
the building, the elevation to the apex of the roof being 56 feet. The facade is broken at
the corner with a square tower standing with its top about 113 feet from the ground. Three
wide doors open from the street approached by ten stone steps so constructed as to make them
easy to ascend or descend. The church will seat 600 persons and cost about $40,000. In connection
with its religious activities St. Cyprian's has a parochial school and academy located on 8th
and D Streets, five blocks west. This is the gift of one Miss Atkins, one of the most thrifty
of Negro women of the community, who had been a student at St. Francis Academy in Baltimore.

DOCUMENTS

     THE EXPERIENCE OF A GEORGIA PEON--MY ESCAPE FROM BONDAGE[1]

     It was on a faraway plantation, where the big bell rang out the
     call to work, and the overseer shouted at the top of his voice,
     "All in line." For twenty-seven years I was one among the groups
     that must hearken to the call of the big bell.

     Some years ago the owners of these plantations agreed among
     themselves to let the colored people have schools, with the
     understanding that no one should be admitted as a pupil who was
     old enough to work. So I found myself among those who had to
     work. I hardly know how the thought came into my mind that I
     wanted to go to school, for there was no talk of schools around
     the fireside, but for some cause that I cannot explain I became
     possessed with the longing for an education. I did not know what
     for, but, with all my heart, I wanted to go to school.

     There were ten of us in our family, including our father. Our
     mother departed into the beyond when we were very small. Our
     father was an easy-going man. Any way would do for him. Whatever
     was was right. Whenever I told him that I wanted to go to
     school he would answer, "You know what the boss says." But I
     would reply, "Father, he can't make me stay here." That was to
     him a piece of foolishness and he would turn away and say nothing
     more. At last I saw that I must do my own thinking and plan my
     own way of leaving. For ten years school was my chief thought.
     Every day I saw myself turning from the old plantation to what
     was for me the land of freedom and opportunity.

     It was years before the opportunity came. One night I said to my
     father, "I am going to leave on the first day of May if it costs
     me my life." For the first time he seemed to realize that I was
     in earnest. Then he said, "If you leave me you will travel in my
     tears." That was a horrible thought to me so I did not leave then
     nor until several more years had gone by, ten in all from the
     time I first began to think about school.

     Finally, one night I said to him: "This is the third and last
     time I shall tell you I want to go to school. You hindered me for
     years by telling me that I would be travelling in your tears.
     That will not answer any longer." When he saw that the blaze had
     never died out he said: "My son, these may be right thoughts that
     have come to your mind and their power may lead you to a good
     end, yet they may be the ruin of you. I would rather follow you
     to your grave than see you captured and brought back to be
     punished by these hateful laws they have on these plantations.
     God will change things after a time and then it may be you can go
     to school in safety." I saw then that my poor father wanted me to
     go to school but was afraid I would be punished if I did, as he
     had known others to do. I said I was going to risk it anyway. As
     the appointed time drew near he was very sorrowful. Never shall I
     forget the night of parting. After he had pronounced a
     benedirection upon me he said: "May you ever be happy."

     I had really started upon my journey. I had a sack of gingerbread
     which I did not want to bother with but that my dear sisters
     persuaded me to carry with me. When daylight appeared I knew it
     would not be safe to keep the road so I planned out a road of my
     own. When I came to the spring into which Ponce de Leon had
     plunged to regain his lost youth I sat down and ate all the bread
     I could and left the rest. How often afterwards I wished for it!

     Not long after I left Ponce de Leon spring I heard the plantation
     dogs coming after me. "What shall I do now?" was the question.
     When they had nearly reached me I hid behind a tree and then
     dashed off as if I saw game ahead. They soon recognized me and
     became my fast friends.

     We slept in the same bed under the same guardian stars. Every
     night I would thank God for their voiceless sympathy. I shared my
     meals with them. When I bought crackers I would eat but a few of
     them and give the rest to my dumb companions. But I saw at last
     that I must get rid of the poor creatures somehow, although the
     thought almost broke my heart. When I reached the Mississippi I
     lashed two logs together and sent my companions out hunting. Then
     I sailed away on the raft I had made across the Father of Waters.
     When they returned I looked back and saw them running alongside
     of the river where they could see me, willing to die with me. I
     broke down in tears and could not look back any more, because I
     would have gone back and died with them.

     For hundreds of miles I made a path where no human foot had ever
     trod. I swam rivers and made harbors where no boat had ever
     landed. At last I reached Texas. For many days I travelled
     without seeing any house. At night I was afraid of being
     destroyed by some wild beast, so I would climb a tree and stay
     awake until morning. But none of these things moved me for I had
     ten years' study of my journey and whatever it might bring, even
     death. Coming to a little town I found work with one of my race.
     I thought all colored people were like those on the plantation so
     I told my employer everything and from what plantation I came. He
     said I had taken the right step. Imagine my surprise therefore
     when I discovered that I was captured! It almost broke my heart.
     Rather than go back to the old plantation I would suffer death. I
     pulled away from my captors and ran with all my might. My
     pretended friend was ahead trying to overtake me but I soon freed
     myself in a large swamp. This taught me a lesson I did not have
     to go to school to learn, I found out that some among my own race
     would put me to death for a dollar and I learned to keep my mouth
     shut.

     When I reached Chattanooga, the nights were so cold I saw I could
     no longer lie out. For many months I had not slept in a bed, nor
     eaten a cooked meal. My clothes were those I wore away from home
     and they were what you can imagine they would be. I did not know
     how to go about getting a job. Finally I found a good place and
     before long was earning enough to make me comfortable. But one
     day when I was out in town I saw a drummer who had sold goods to
     the store on our plantation, for many years. He recognized me and
     called out, "The boss is going to break your head, nigger, if he
     gets you!" This ended my happy home. I had not yet learned to get
     on a train but with my same dependence I soon ran away to
     Knoxville. Writing to a certain place from there I learned of my
     father's death. These were dark days for me. I was strolling
     about in the cold world without home or friends. I would often
     ask myself, "What am I living for when there is no heart beating
     for me?" I began to drift with the current and even thought I
     would take to drinking. Then the thought came to me that I would
     be a coward to come so far and then give up. I arose with this
     thought and determined to act like a man. I entered school in
     Morristown Tenn., thinking that all my troubles were over. I made
     low grade with small children. It seemed funny to them to see a
     man who knew so little. I was there about four months and was
     beginning to lose my fear when one day I saw the same drummer
     again. When he caught sight of me he called out, "Hello, nigger,
     I thought you were in New York!" Never will sinner tremble in the
     presence of the Almighty as I did in the presence of that
     drummer. But he seemed only delighted in spending some time
     talking with me. He said one of my sisters and several other
     hands from the plantation had run away and the boss thought I was
     the cause of it all, and, he added, "If that old man gets his
     hand on you, they'll take you some night and skin you alive. I
     told him I saw you in Chattanooga and he said he would make me a
     present of $200 if I would let him know where you were if I
     should see you again. But I would not do you that way for
     anything. I'll tell you what I will do for you, however. I'll get
     you a good job up North where you can go to school. I would not
     stop here." I replied "All RIGHT!" As he was going away he threw
     me a quarter saying, "Get you a drink, old boy!" I lifted my hat
     and scraped back my foot as I thanked him for the money. But I
     was not so easily fooled at that time. I knew just what such
     sweet talk meant. I saw that it was my move. I had learned then
     to get on the train. I left Morristown that night and next
     morning was in Lexington. Being afraid to stay I went to
     Wilberforce, Ohio, then to Frankfort but finally came back to
     Lexington again. By that time I had found out that my boss could
     not carry me back to the plantation, as its laws were not so
     large in the world as I had thought. I found out that if I
     violated the laws of the State I could not be carried back
     without the consent of the Governor of Kentucky. I entered
     Chandler School without money but happy. For the first time I
     wrote to my old Miss telling her I was in Lexington in Chandler
     School. She answered with sweet words about my going to school,
     and said the boss had spoken kind things about me before he
     passed away.

     The kind teachers of Chandler did their best to unfold those
     twenty-seven years of ignorance. I had almost to bite the dust to
     stay in school but I stayed there. I have studied many days
     hungry--walking the streets afternoons trying to find work for a
     little to eat.

     Since I have been in Lexington I have often been asked, "What do
     you want with so much education?" Out of those same lips I have
     heard other students praised for going to school. I did not let
     this discourage me. Dr. J. E. Hunter, Rev. E. A. Clarke, and
     Kelly Robinson will ever have my heart-felt gratitude for the
     kind words of encouragement they gave me. We little realize what
     a word of encouragement means to one who has lived the life I
     have.

FOOTNOTES:

[1] This narrative was obtained by the editor. It relates an incident which took place between
Wrightsville and Dublin, Georgia, in 1903. There is abundant evidence that many other cases
of this have been and may be found in the United States.

COMMUNICATIONS

This letter contains at least one important fact showing the development of racial relations
in the United States since the establishment of the independence of this country.

                                                February 8, 1916.

     MR. C. G. WOODSON,
       EDITOR, THE QUARTERLY JOURNAL OF NEGRO
         LIFE AND HISTORY,
           2223 12th St., NW.,
             Washington, D. C.

     Sir:

     Referring to your letter of the 4th instant, in which you express
     a desire to be furnished with information showing the number of
     negro soldiers who served in the Revolutionary War, their names,
     if possible, and some information concerning the regiments in
     which they served, and in which letter you also make inquiry as
     to whether such records are accessible to some member of your
     staff for making the necessary research, I am directed by the
     Secretary of War to inform you as follows:

     A cursory examination of the Revolutionary War records on file in
     this Department has resulted in the discovery of information here
     and there concerning the services of colored men in that war, but
     there is no index indicating where records of such services may
     be found and in order to ascertain data showing the names,
     organizations and numbers of such colored men it would be
     necessary to make an extended search of the entire collection of
     Revolutionary War records in the custody of this Department. Even
     after making such an extended search the results would be
     doubtful because the War Department records afford but little
     information showing whether Revolutionary War soldiers were white
     or colored.

     No attempt has ever been made by the War Department to compile
     information regarding the numbers or names of colored men in the
     Revolutionary War or the designations of the organizations to
     which they belonged, and owing to the limited clerical force
     allowed by law, the Department cannot undertake any compilation,
     which, as already explained, would in any event necessarily be
     incomplete and unsatisfactory.

     Historical investigators of recognized standing are permitted to
     have access to the War Department records under certain
     conditions, but the Revolutionary War records have become so worn
     and dilapidated by reason of lapse of time and long use thereof
     that access thereto is permitted only under exceptional
     circumstances. Inasmuch as those records are very incomplete and
     afford scarcely any information bearing upon the subject in
     question it is not seen that any useful purpose can be served by
     granting permission to search those records for the data desired.

     Many of the States that had troops in the Revolutionary War have
     published rosters of such troops. These rosters can probably be
     readily consulted in the Congressional Library, and it is
     believed that they afford the most promising source for obtaining
     the information sought

                         Very respectfully,
                                  H. T. MCCAIN,
                             The Adjutant General

The following sent out some time ago under the frank of Congressman Goldfogle may have some
historic value:

     When the Jamestown Exposition Bill was under consideration by the
     Committee on Industrial Arts and Expositions of the House of
     Representatives, at Washington, Congressman Henry M. Goldfogle,
     of New York, a member of the committee, took a very keen and
     lively interest in securing an appropriation of a hundred
     thousand dollars for a Negro exhibit.

     On the day the Committee finally revised the bill and voted on
     it, Congressman Goldfogle was suffering intensely from
     carbuncles, and was about to undergo a surgical operation.
     Despite this, he went to the committee meeting, and there moved
     the insertion of the provision for the appropriation for a Negro
     exhibit.

     Some members of the committee who were not favorable to the
     project and others who were quite indifferent to it urged the
     Congressman to allow the matter to remain in abeyance, saying
     that it might be taken up at some future time. Judge Goldfogle,
     however, insisted there was no time like the present and that the
     colored men and women of the country ought to have an opportunity
     to show through means of the proposed exhibit the remarkable
     progress that they had made since the days when they emerged from
     slavery. In the course of his remarks to the Committee, he said
     that he came of a race that had been oppressed and which
     centuries ago had been in slavery, and that had he lived forty
     years after the children of Israel had passed out of the house of
     bondage, he would have been thankful and grateful had anyone
     given his people an opportunity to show the progress they had
     made as free men.

     Congressman Goldfogle called attention to the testimony that had
     been given during the hearings before the Committee of the great
     advancement made by the colored people in every avenue of life
     from the time of their emancipation, and the credit that was due
     to many of the men and women of the Negro race who had shown
     themselves worthy of the freedom that happily this country
     accorded them.

     After quite a spirited debate, in which Judge Goldfogle warmly
     espoused the cause of the colored man, the Committee, by a
     majority of one vote, inserted the appropriation provision; and
     thus, mainly through the efforts of this New York Congressman,
     who has not a single colored vote in his district, the Negro
     exhibit was established at the Jamestown Exposition.

BOOK REVIEWS

     A Social History of the American Negro. By BENJAMIN BRAWLEY.
     Macmillan Company, New York, 1921. Pp. 420.

As Negro history has been so long neglected, it will require some time to develop in this field
the necessary standard to secure a distinction between the significant and insignificant and
between truth and fiction. On account of the emphasis which has been recently given to this
study, many novices lacking especially the historical point of view have entered this field
because it is so productive that it is an easy task to write a work therein. Benjamin Brawley
whose chief preparation and efforts have been restricted to English is one of these novices.
Among his first efforts were A Short History of the American Negro and The Negro in Literature
and Art. In neither of these works does he exhibit the knowledge required by the standards
of present day historiography. This more recent work although more extensive than the others
has no better claim to its being called history.

There can be no question as to many valuable facts contained in this work, but it lacks proportion,
style, and accuracy. The book begins with a study of African origins based largely on Wiener's
Africa and the Discovery of America and upon Lady Lugard's Tropical Dependency. He next takes
up the Negro in the Spanish exploration but has little or nothing to say about the Negroes
in connection with other explorers. His treatment of the development of the slave trade and
of the introduction of slavery shows a slightly improved conception of his task. In his discussion
of the Negroes in the colonies, into which he works servitude and slavery, the Indian, the
mulatto, the free Negro, and efforts for social betterment, he presents a veritable hodgepodge.
Passing then to the study of the estrangement from Great Britain, the participation of the
Negro in the Revolutionary War, and the effect of that movement upon the Negro's social and
political situation, he exhibits no scientific grasp of the status of the Negroes during the
eighteenth century or of what they were thinking and doing. The treatment of the new West,
the South, and the West Indies, which follows this portion of the book is merely certain generalizations
which may be obtained from an average knowledge of American history and from such topical discussions
of the Negro history as may be found in B.A. Johnson's History of the Negro Race or in John
W. Cromwell's The Negro in American History. In his discussion of the Indian and the Negro
there is an effort which serves to direct attention to a neglected aspect of our history, that
is, to figure out the extent to which the races were associated and the race admixture which
resulted from such contact.

Coming nearer to our day to take up the discussion of the Missouri Compromise, the abolition
agitation, and the constitutional debate on slavery, Mr. Brawley shows his inability to develop
his subject for he merely draws a few facts first from one field and then from another to fill
out certain topics in the book without correlating them in such a way that the reader may be
able to interpret their meaning. He has endeavored not to write a history but to summarize
what other persons are now publishing as selected topics in this field. In other words, he
has added to the unscientific history of the Negro, which has hitherto appeared in the so-called
text books on Negro history, facts culled from various sources but so improperly used as not
to develop the subject.

The chapter on Liberia should have been incorporated into the treatment of colonization or
made a supplementary chapter in the appendix of the book. Placed in the middle of the work,
it has been necessary to repeat certain facts which could have been stated elsewhere once for
all. The same is true of his treatment of the Negro as a national issue, and of social progress,
which he takes up the second time as topics inadequately developed in the earlier stages of
the treatise. In his discussion of the Civil War, the Emancipation, the Reconstruction, and
the Negro in the new South, he says very little which is new. Under the caption The Vale of
Tears, he drifts almost altogether into opinion as he does also in the case of the Negro in
the New Age and the Negro Problem. Judging, then, from the point of view of an historian, one
must conclude that this work does not meet any particular want and that so far as the history
of the Negro is concerned the publication of it will hardly result in any definite good. Mr.
Brawley does not know history.

     William Lloyd Garrison. By JOHN JAY CHAPMAN. Moffat, Yard and
     Company, New York, 1913. Pp. 278.

This is a revised edition of a work of a similar name by this author, published in 1913 by
Moffat, Yard and Company, New York. After having written the first edition the author made
further investigation and had other reflections which led him to think and to see things from
a different angle. He was impressed, moreover, with the fact that, being now further removed
from the Civil War, persons have learned to think more seriously with regard thereto and to
consider the value of the deeds of the participants therein in a more sympathetic manner. This
work, however, has not been so very much enlarged; for it has only eighteen pages more, but
unlike the first edition it has an index. Hoping, however, to give the subject of this sketch
a larger place in American history and to popularize the story of his career this revised edition
has been given to the public.

The work is not set forth as a scientific study. It is rather an abridged account which may
be read without much difficulty by the average student in quest of concise opinion concerning
one of the most important American characters figuring in that great crisis between 1830 and
1860. On reading this work, one receives the impression that the author has done his task very
well. It borders somewhat on hero worship, however, as is evident from the use of the following
language: "If one could see a mystical presentation of the epoch, one would see Garrison as
a Titan, turning a giant grindstone or electrical power-wheel, from which radiated vibrations
in larger and in ever larger, more communicative circles and spheres of agitation, till there
was not a man, woman, or child in America who was not a tremble." He says further: "We know,
of course, that the source of these radiations was not in Garrison. They came from the infinite
and passed out into the infinite. Had there been no Garrison they would somehow have arrived
and at some time would have prevailed. But historically speaking they did actually pass through
Garrison: he vitalized and permanently changed this nation as much as one man ever did the
same for any nation in the history of the world."

The book gives a good background and then dramatically stages Garrison as a striking figure.
Next follows a dramatic presentation of the antislavery struggle with pen pictures of the participants.
The story finally reaches the crisis when Garrison stood as a central figure. The work contains
a retrospect and a prospect, an excellent account of the man in action, the Rynders Mob, Garrison
and Emerson, and foreign influence. The story closes with a summary and an impressive epilogue.
Although not a scientific treatise it certainly furnishes stimulus to further study, and when
a student thus interested has read it, he will desire to study one of the larger biographies
of this distinguished man.

     The Education of the South African Native. By CHARLES T. LORAM.
     Longmans, Green and Company, London, 1917. Pp. 340.

This is a treatise written by a South African brought up among the natives. He was once a Fellow
in Teachers College of Columbia University. At the time of writing this book he was serving
as an inspector of schools in Natal. The study, however, was undertaken as a doctoral dissertation
at Columbia.

Observing the shortcomings of writers on Africa, this author endeavors to make a step ahead
of them. He feels that they have dealt too much with ethnology, and with the descriptions of
customs and habits. He does not think very much of the books primarily devoted to a discussion
of the conflicting opinions on craniology and psychology of the natives. Taking up his own
chosen task, however, he found it rather difficult because the government has had no definite
policy of native education, and when there has been a policy among the four important South
African governments there does not appear to be any uniformity of effort. No one, moreover,
has undertaken to give the problem of the uplift of the natives adequate treatment.

The author desired to make his work scientific but it appears that he had not prosecuted this
study very far before he found that important facts were lacking and that in making his conclusions
and suggestions he would have to rely upon faith that what he may surmise may in the future
prove to be true, although some modification may be necessary. Taking up this problem of education,
however, he made use of the reports of the government departments, reports of school officials,
books, pamphlets, articles in periodicals, statistical and experimental investigations, personal
experience, and the experiences of his colleagues. While the work for the lack of some scientific
treatise blazing the way suffered from so many handicaps that it could not be thoroughly scientific,
it is the nearest approach to it and must be considered the best authority in this field until
superseded.

The work begins with a consideration of such scientific topics as race contact in its larger
aspects, the native problem and its proposed solution, serving as a sort of introduction to
the essential portion of the work. The chief value of the book lies in its consideration of
why the natives should be educated, the early missionary enterprises, the present status, elementary,
industrial and higher education of the natives, a comparison of the achievements of native
education with that of European, the basis for reconstruction of the native system, the educational
budget, and proposed changes.

The work is generally readable but grows a little dull in certain statistical portions. The
table of contents is detailed, but the book could have been considerably improved had an index
been added. On the whole, the volume is a justification of some change in the political status
of the Negro for the good of all. South Africa cannot in its own interest neglect the uplift
of the natives, if it would promote the social and economic progress of the whole group. The
one element cannot be elevated or kept up while the other is being held down. Persons interested
in education of belated peoples and in the missionary enterprises should avail themselves of
this volume.

     From Slave to Citizen. By CHARLES M. MELDEN. The Methodist Book
     Concern, New York and Cincinnati, 1921. Pp. 271.

This is a work written by one who has spent sixteen years as an educator of Negroes in the
South. His experience there was sufficient for him to learn the Negro and his needs and he
writes in the vein of one speaking as having authority. Because of his long service among the
Negroes, the author has doubtless caught the viewpoint of the aspiring members of the race.
He aims, therefore, to present the Negro's claim for recognition as a man, as a member of the
human family with the implied rights and privileges belonging to him.

The book presents a definite program. It proceeds on the basis that, in a democracy, citizenship
with its duties and its privileges must in the long run be recognized. He does not feel that
democracy means the wiping out of racial preferences but the recognition of racial gifts and
endowments. The author considers it an injustice to hold the Negro to the standards of democracy
without training him to meet the responsibility. He considers it unfair to require every individual
of the race to reach a prescribed standard before any of that group shall be recognized. It
is, therefore, a plea for treating the Negroes as individuals and not as a single group, for
fair treatment will not lead to amalgamation in as much as Christianity has not been known
to promote that.

The chief remedy for the evils of racial conflict, according to the author, is cooperation.
This must be brought about through growth and development from the contact of the two races
on the higher plane of Christian service. Men must learn to work together without surrendering
their fundamental connections. They must confer on all matters pertaining to economic welfare.
This means that the white man must give the Negro a chance for initiative and leadership in
the program of cooperation rather than the eternal superimposed leadership from without. In
the language of Bishop W. P. Thirkield, who wrote the introduction to this work: "The Negro
must be offered not crutches but a spirit of cooperation to make him strong that he may stand
on his feet and walk."

It is evident then that this book is primarily concerned with the solution of the race problem.
Yet written by a man who for years lived in the South, it presents a point of view which will
be of value to the historian. From such topics as citizenship, social and legal discrimination,
disfranchisement, and mob law, the historian will learn much by observing how these things
impressed this worker in the South and his reaction on them. Valuable information may be obtained
also from the discussion of the work of the Christian teacher in the South, the mission school,
and the silent protest in the form of the exodus. There are valuable statistics in the chapters
presenting the progress in education, advancement in wealth, achievement in social uplift,
attainments in literature and art, and the record of the Negroes in the World War. The last
part of the book concerned with the currents and counter-currents, the grinding of the mills
of the gods and a possible modus vivendi will decidedly interest the social worker but will
not concern very much the student of history. On the whole, however, this volume is a valuable
historical document which the student of Negro life must read to be well informed as to what
the Negro has been doing in the South during the last generation and what others have been
doing for him.

NOTES

The annual meeting of the Association, held at Lynchburg on the 14th and 15th of November,
was the most successful conference hitherto held by this organization. The proceedings appear
elsewhere in this number.

At this meeting Prof. John R. Hawkins, for years a member of the Executive Council, was elected
President. A new Secretary-Treasurer, Mr. S. W. Rutherford, was also elected. Mr. Rutherford
is a well-known business man in Washington. The Executive Council was reconstructed to make
it national. The following persons were added thereto: Bishop R. A. Carter, R. R. Church, John
W. Davis, Clement Richardson, and R. C. Woods. Most of the former members of the Executive
Council were retained.

The Associated Publishers, Incorporated, Washington, D. C., have brought out C. G. Woodson's
History of the Negro Church. A review of this work will appear in the next number. Another
work, the Negro in Our History, will be published some time in March.

The Journal of Negro History has received for review Mason and Furr's With the Red Hand of
France, an account of a regiment of Negro soldiers in France with the American Expeditionary Force.

A group of intelligent Negroes in North Carolina have formed a state historical society to
preserve the records of the race in that commonwealth.

Dr. C. G. Woodson, the Director of the Association is now making a study of slavery from the
point of view of the slave himself. He has sent out a searching questionnaire from which some
results are being obtained. He is also consulting local records and documents left by slaves
themselves and by those in a position to know their attitude toward the institution. The cooperation
of all interested in unearthing the truth is earnestly solicited.

Professor A. A. Taylor, of the West Virginia Collegiate Institute, is now making a scientific
study of the influence of the Negro congressmen on the legislation of Congress and on the general
policy of the country. He will appreciate any facts which may not be covered by the public
documents and books available.

Duffield and Company of Boston have published a new edition of Benjamin Brawley's The Negro
in Literature and Art.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ANNUAL MEETING OF THE ASSOCIATION FOR THE STUDY OF NEGRO LIFE AND HISTORY,
HELD AT LYNCHBURG, NOVEMBER 14 AND 15, 1921

The morning session of the annual meeting of the Association on the 14th at the Virginia Theological
Seminary and College was called to order by the Director, C. G. Woodson, who briefly traced
the history of the organization showing how it had gradually gained influence and power and
reached the position which it now occupies as a national organization of concern to the people
of both races throughout the country. The Director then introduced Professor Charles H. Wesley
of Howard University, who delivered a most instructive and inspiring address on the value of
Negro History. After a few remarks by Dr. R. C. Woods, a number of persons expressed their
interest in the Association by becoming members.

At two o'clock in the evening, the business session of the Association was held. From the Executive
Council, there was presented a recommendation for the following amendments to the constitution,
which, after some discussion, were adopted by the Association:

     That Article IV be amended so as to change "twelve" to
     "fourteen," and to incorporate after the words "business
     committee" therein the words "to fix salaries of employees." This
     article would then read as follows:

     The Officers of this Association shall be a President, a
     Secretary-Treasurer, a Director and Editor, and an Executive
     Council, consisting of the three foregoing officers and fourteen
     other members elected by the Association. The Association shall
     have three trustees, who ex-officio shall be the President,
     Secretary-Treasurer, and the Director and Editor.

     That Article V be amended so as to read as follows:

     The President shall preside at all meetings of the Association
     and of the Executive Council. He shall be ex-officio a trustee of
     the Association, a member of the Business Committee and a member
     of all standing committees. He shall perform such other duties as
     may be required of him from time to time by the Executive Council
     or by the Association.

     In case of the absence of the President or his inability to act,
     his duty shall be performed by the Secretary-Treasurer, who in
     that event shall exercise any of the above mentioned powers of
     the President. In case of the absence of both the President and
     the Secretary-Treasurer, the duty of the President shall be
     performed by the Director and Editor, who in that event shall
     exercise any of the above mentioned powers of the President.

     The Secretary-Treasurer shall attend all meetings and keep a full
     account of their proceedings in a book to be kept for that
     purpose. He shall through his Assistant keep a full and accurate
     account of receipts and disbursements of the Association in books
     belonging to the Association and shall deposit all monies and
     other valuable objects in the name of this Association in such
     depositories or safety vaults as may be designated by the
     Business Committee. He and his Assistant shall be required by the
     Executive Council to give bond as the Executive Council may
     designate. The Secretary-Treasurer shall be ex-officio a trustee
     of the Association, and a member of the Business Committee.

     The Director and Editor shall be the executive of the Association
     when it or the Executive Council is not in session. He shall
     devise plans for the collection of documents, direct the studies
     of members of the Association, and determine what matter shall be
     published in the Journal of Negro History. He shall employ a
     business manager and clerk, the last mentioned to serve also as
     the Assistant to the Secretary-Treasurer. He may employ other
     assistants for administrative work and upon the approval of the
     Executive Council may employ specialists to prosecute the
     research to be undertaken by the Association. The Director and
     Editor shall be ex-officio a trustee of the Association, and a
     member of all standing committees except the Business Committee.

The report of the Director was read and adopted as was also the report of the Secretary-Treasurer,
which was referred to an auditor. Important extracts from these reports follow.

     The work of the Association has been successfully promoted. In
     some respects the Association has merely maintained its former
     status. Considered from another point of view, however, a decided
     advance in several ways has been noted. In the fields in which
     the work has advanced the progress has been so significant that
     the year through which the Association has just passed has been
     the most prosperous in its history.

     The subscription list of the Journal of Negro History does not
     show a large increase for the reason that it became necessary
     more than a year ago to raise the fee from one to two dollars a
     year and the current stringency in the money market has borne so
     heavily upon teachers, and students to whom this publication must
     appeal, that they have been unable to give it more liberal
     support. Among the subscribers and members, however, there has
     been manifested a deep interest in the matter published and a
     keen appreciation of its value in the uplift of the Negro.

     The membership of the Association for the same reason has about
     remained the same as that of last year. The interest of the
     members in the work and the value of the direction of the
     Association to them, however, have both unusually increased. This
     interest has culminated in the organization of clubs under the
     supervision of the Director, who through them has been able to
     give considerable stimulus to the work in remote parts of the
     country. Among the clubs thus organized should be mentioned those
     of San Antonio, Louisville, Chicago, Baltimore, Washington,
     Philadelphia, Brooklyn and New York. Classes doing the same work
     under the instruction of teachers have been formed in most of the
     accredited Negro secondary schools and colleges. The work of such
     classes at the West Virginia Collegiate Institute, the Virginia
     Theological Seminary and College, Hampton Institute, Morehouse
     College, Atlanta University, Paine College, Lincoln Institute in
     Missouri, and the Kentucky State Normal School has been helpful
     to the Association in its prosecution of the study of Negro life
     and history.

     With the cooperation of these friends and through travel the
     Director has been making a study of Slavery from the Point of
     View of the Slave. This has been done through questionnaires
     filled out by ex-slaves and former masters, through the
     collection of documents, and the study of local records. This
     study, however, is just beginning and will require much more time
     for completion. The Director expects to finish at an earlier date
     his studies of the Free Negro and the Development of the Negro
     in the Occupations.

     The most significant achievement of the Association has been the
     success of the Director in increasing the income of the
     Association to about $12,000 a year. This substantial uplift has
     come in part from a large number of Negroes, who now more than
     ever appreciate the value of their records and the importance of
     popularizing the study thereof. A large number of Negroes have
     made small contributions and as many as forty have given the
     Association $25 each this year. Through the strong endorsement of
     Dr. J. F. Jameson and other noted historical scholars the
     Director secured from the Carnegie Corporation the much needed
     appropriation of $5,000 a year for each of the next five years.
     With this income the Association has paid all of its debts except
     that of the bonus of $1,200 a year promised the Director for
     1919-1920 and 1920-1921. Besides, the Association has been
     enabled to employ a Business Manager and to pay the Director a
     regular salary that as soon as practicable he may sever his
     connection with all work and devote all of his time to the
     prosecution of the study of Negro Life and History.

The details as to how the funds thus raised have been expended appear in the following report
of the Secretary-Treasurer:

                                             November 12, 1921.

     RECEIPTS                     EXPENDITURES

     Subscriptions     $913.96    Printing and Stationery     $5,731.53
     Memberships        126.00    Petty Cash                     709.90
     Contributions    8,239.50    Stenographic Service         1,134.60
     Advertisements     255.15    Rent and Light                 438.61
     Rent and Light     198.61    Miscellaneous                   86.10
     Books               75.40    Salaries                     1,225.00
                                  Traveling Expenses              77.21
                      --------                                 --------
     Total           $9,808.62    Total                        $9402.95

     Balance on hand              Balance on hand November
     Sept. 30, 1920.     48.86    12, 1921                       454.53
                     ---------                                  -------
                     $9,857.48                                $9,857.48

                                      Respectfully submitted,
                                           Secretary-Treasurer.

Upon the recommendation of the committee on nominations the officers of the Association were,
in keeping with the custom of this body, elected by a motion to the effect that the Acting
Secretary be instructed to cast the unanimous ballot of the Association, for those recommended
by the committee on nominations, that is, for John R. Hawkins as President, for S. W. Rutherford
as Secretary-Treasurer, for C. G. Woodson as Director and Editor, and as members of the Executive
Council the three foregoing officers together with Julius Rosenwald, George Foster Peabody,
James H. Dillard, Bishop R. A. Carter, R. R. Church, Albert Bushnell Hart, John W. Davis, Bishop
John R. Hurst, A. L. Jackson, Moorfield Storey, Bishop R. E. Jones, Channing H. Tobias, Clement
Richardson, and R. C. Woods.

The evening session of the 14th was held at the Eighth Street Baptist Church where were assembled
a considerable representation of the members of the Association and a large number of persons
seeking to learn of the work and to profit by the discussion of the Association. Dr. R. C.
Woods, President of the Virginia Theological Seminary and College, presided. The first speaker
of the evening, Dr. W. H. Stokes of Richmond, Virginia, delivered a well-prepared and instructive
address on the value of tradition. His aim was to encourage the Negro race and other persons
interested in its uplift to do more for the preservation and study of its records. The next
speaker of the evening was Professor J. R. Hawkins, Financial Secretary of the African Methodist
Episcopal Church. He delivered a very forceful and informing discourse on the history of the
Negro Church. How the church has figured in the life of the Negro; how it has been effective
in promoting the progress of the race; and what it is doing to-day to present the case of the
Negro to the world and offer him opportunities in other fields were all emphasized throughout
this address. Dr. R. T. Kerlin, former Professor at the Virginia Military Institute, was then
introduced. He briefly spoke about the importance of acquainting the white race with the achievements
of the Negro, and showed that his task was not, therefore, to appeal to the Negroes, themselves,
but to the white people, who too often misunderstand them.

The morning session of the 15th at the Virginia Theological Seminary and College was called
to order by the newly elected President, Prof. John R. Hawkins. The Director, Dr. C. G. Woodson,
was then introduced. He showed how the Negro is a menace to the position of the white man in
trying to maintain racial superiority. The significant achievements of the Negro in Africa
and this country were passed in rapid review to show how untenable this position of the white
man is and how unlikely it can continue in view of the fact that the Negro is accomplishing
more now than ever before in the history of the race. Professor John R. Hawkins then delivered
a brief address showing how the development of the schools and the maintenance of the proper
school spirit through teachers and students can be made effective in the social uplift of the
race. President Trigg of Bennet College then followed with impressive remarks expressing his
interest in the cause and his confidence in those who are now doing so much to preserve the
records of the Negro and to popularize the study of them throughout this country and abroad.

There was no afternoon session of the Association except a brief meeting of the Executive Council,
to which the public was not invited. The conference closed with the evening session at the
Eighth Street Baptist Church, where a large audience was addressed by Dr. I. E. McDougle, of
Sweet Briar College, Dr. E. Crooks, of Randolph-Macon College, and Professor Bernard Tyrrell
of the Virginia Theological Seminary and College. Dr. McDougle briefly discussed Negro history
as a neglected field, showing that it is generally unexplored, and introducing an abundance
of material which may be discovered with little effort. He spoke, moreover, of Negro History
as a neglected subject, giving statistical information as to the places where the subject is
now being taught and the manner in which such instruction is offered. Dr. Crooks spoke for
a few minutes on self-respect as a means by which the race may develop power. He unfortunately,
however, drifted into a discussion of certain phases of the race problem and disgusted his
audience by advancing ideas with which, as he was informed, Negroes cannot agree. Professor
Tyrrell then delivered a scholarly address on Negro ancestry and brought forward from his study
of ancient history and especially that of Africa, facts showing that the Negro race has made
a record of which it may well feel proud. He explained, moreover, how historians since the
early days have become prejudiced against the proper treatment of the achievements of Africans
and have endeavored to convince the world that the record of the race is not significant.

This meeting on the whole was a success, above and beyond that of any other hitherto held.
The attendance was large, the enthusiasm ran higher, and the financial support secured far
exceeded that of other meetings. There was expressed a general interest in the plans for the
future prosecution of the work and the intention to give it more support that it may be extended
in all of its ramifications throughout this country and even abroad. These were: what should
be the status of the eleven Confederate States; what should be done with the leaders of the
Confederacy; and finally, what should be the rôle to be played by the several millions of freedmen?
In the effort to deal effectively with these problems the Thirty-ninth and Fortieth Congresses
adopted a reconstruction policy which provided for the readmission of the formerly rebellious
States to the Union, the imposition of political disabilities upon many former Confederates,
and the bestowal of citizenship and suffrage upon the freedmen. Upon the enlarged electorate
the reconstruction of the States was undertaken.

That the freedmen, comprising in many communities a preponderance of voting power, should elect
to public office ambitious outstanding men of their race was expected. At that time, therefore,
Negroes attained not only local and State offices of importance, but also sat in the United
States Congress. Indeed, during the period from 1871 to 1901, the latter year marking the passing
of this type of Congressman, twenty-two Negroes, two of whom were senators, held membership
in Congress. It seems, moreover, that men like Menard of Florida, Pinchback of Louisiana, Lee
and others, though unable to prove their contentions, were, nevertheless, contestants with
good title.

This situation, no less unique than it was interesting, has become the source of interminable
debate. It has been contended that because of the ignorance of the blacks, in letters, in manners,
in business, and in the affairs of State, it was a serious mistake to enfranchise them, thus
making possible for a period however brief their virtual direction of the political affairs
of some of the Southern States. Consistent in principle, historians of this conviction have
viewed with abhorrence the seating of black men in the highest legislative assembly of the
land. Not all men, however, have concurred in this opinion. There were those who had precisely
the opposite view, basing their argument on the necessity of the plan of reconstruction effected,
in order to preserve to the Union the fruits of its victory.

The merits of that reconstruction are not here, however, at issue. Of far greater import for
our consideration is the single fact that Negroes were thereby sent to Congress. Did the Negroes
elected to Congress justify by their achievements their presence there? To what extent did
they give direction to the thought and policies which were to govern and control in this nation?
Manifestly an impartial judgment in this matter may be most adequately arrived at by the setting
up of certain criteria of excellence expected to inhere in Congressmen and measuring by these
the achievements of these functionaries. Considering the matter in this light, therefore, the
following questions are advanced as bearing a direct relationship to the services of these
Congressmen. First, what of their mental equipment to perform the tasks of law makers? Second,
as measured by their experience in public positions of trust and by their grasp of the public
questions at that time current, to what extent did they show capacity for public service? Third,
in what directions were their chief interests manifested?

EVIDENCES OF MENTAL EQUIPMENT

Regarding the Negro Congressmen in the light of the standards already referred to, we shall
first make inquiry as to their mental fitness to function as law makers. Broadly considered,
they may be divided into two groups: first, those who possessed but limited education; second,
those who were college bred.

Among the men comprising the first group, certain common characteristics are noticeable: first,
they were mainly members of the earliest Reconstruction Congresses, beginning with the Forty-first,
in which Negroes held membership, and were therefore but little removed from slavery; second,
some of them were born of slave parents or had been, themselves, slaves; third, others were
brought up in communities which expressly prohibited the establishment of educational institutions
for Negroes; and fourth, all of them, by dint of severe application in later years, secured,
prior to their election to Congress, a better education than rudimentary instruction. The members
of this group were twelve in number, including Long[1] of Georgia; De Large,[2] Rainey,[3]
Ransier,[4] and Smalls[5] of South Carolina; Lynch[6] and Bruce[7] of Mississippi; Haralson[8]
and Turner[9] of Alabama; Hyman[10] of North Carolina; Nash[11] of Louisiana; and Walls[12]
of Florida.

As many as ten of the twenty-two Negro congressmen were men of college education. This training,
however, varied widely in scope and purpose. Two men of this group became ministers of the
gospel. One of them, Richard H. Cain[13] of South Carolina, was trained at Wilberforce University,
Xenia, Ohio, whence he left in 1861, at the age of thirty-six years, to begin a career in his
chosen field; the other, Hiram E. Revels[14] of Mississippi, was educated at the Quaker Seminary
in Union County, Indiana. Prior to their election to Congress, both of these men attracted
wide attention as churchmen. Cain was for four years the pastor of a church in Brooklyn, N.
Y., after which his congregation sent him as a missionary to the freedmen of South Carolina.
Senator Revels, on the other hand, was widely known as a lecturer in the States of Indiana,
Illinois, Ohio, and Missouri. For some time he preached in Baltimore, taught school in St.
Louis, and among other things, organized churches and lectured in Mississippi. The wide experiences
of both gentlemen offered to them unusual opportunities to develop the power, keenness of insight,
and knowledge of human nature so essential to the leadership of men.

To some of these future Congressmen, the profession of teaching seemed more attractive than
the ministry. Three of the number were destined to become educators. One of them, Henry P.
Cheatham[15] of North Carolina, attended the public and private schools near the town of Henderson,
and was later graduated with honor from the college department of Shaw University. Immediately
thereafter, in 1882, he was elected to the principalship of the Plymouth State Normal School,
where he served until 1895. The second member of this group, George W. Murray[16] of South
Carolina, won by competitive examination a scholarship at the reconstructed University of South
Carolina. There he remained until 1876, his junior year, when by the accession to power of
an administration unfriendly to the coeducation of the races, he was forced to withdraw. For
many years thereafter, Murray was engaged as a teacher in the schools of his native county.

John Mercer Langston[17] of Virginia, the third member of the group of educators, was graduated,
in 1849, at the age of twenty, from Oberlin College. Four years later, in 1853, he completed
the work of the theological department of that school. Because of his ripe scholarship, moreover,
unusual honors were conferred upon him by several American colleges and universities, and he
was the recipient of several honorary memberships in scientific and literary institutions and
associations of foreign countries. Indeed, there have sat in Congress few men of greater mental
power and energy than John Mercer Langston.

Of the twenty-two Negroes who have sat in Congress, five were members of the legal profession.
One of these men represented Alabama, two South Carolina, and two North Carolina. Robert Brown
Elliott, the first member of this group of legally trained leaders, was perhaps the most outstanding
and certainly the most brilliant of the Negroes who have served in Congress. Elliott[18] entered
the High Hollow Academy of London, England, in 1853, at the age of eleven years. In 1859, he
was graduated from Eton College. Later, he studied law and was admitted to the bar, where he
practiced for some time before the courts of South Carolina. This superior training of Elliott
no doubt contributed in large measure to his eminence in debate, which was so often manifested
during the memorable sessions of the 42nd and 43rd Congresses.

James T. Rapier[19] of Alabama, one of the really brilliant men in this group, acquired a liberal
education, after which he studied law and practiced in his native State. Another member of
the legal group was James E. O'Hara[20] of Enfield, North Carolina. Following his academic
training which was received in New York City, O'Hara studied law, first, in North Carolina,
and later at Howard University in Washington. In June, 1871, he was admitted to the bar of
his State.

Two others of this group were Miller and White. The first one, Thomas E. Miller,[21] of Beaufort,
South Carolina, attended the free public school for Negroes in his native city. In 1872 he
was graduated from the Lincoln University in Pennsylvania. Later, Miller read law, and in 1875
was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of his State. The second of these two, George
Henry White[22] of North Carolina, studied first in his native State and later at Howard University.
While there he pursued concurrently courses in liberal arts and in law. In January, 1879, he
was admitted to practice before the Supreme Court of his State.

THEIR PUBLIC SERVICE PRIOR TO MEMBERSHIP IN CONGRESS

Perhaps the most accurate method whereby one's capacity for the performance of any service
may be measured is that which seeks, first, to establish the experience of the individual in
the performance of the identical or similar services, and second, to evaluate the degree of
skill with which the individual, at a given time, performs the particular service.

The first part of our query lends itself to solution without difficulty. Indeed, one may with
great ease establish the fact that, with but few exceptions, these men, prior to their election
to Congress, had held public offices of honor and trust. A case in point is that of John Mercer
Langston[23] of Virginia. While never a member of a State legislature, Langston was, nevertheless,
brought often into other public service. Indeed he early attracted attention in Ohio by his
service as a member of the Council of Oberlin and by his record in other township offices.
Langston served as dean of the Law Department of Howard University, and in 1872 became Vice-President
and Acting President of that institution. In 1885 he became President of the Virginia Normal
and Collegiate Institute. He served, moreover, as Inspector-General of the Bureau of Freedmen,
a member of the Board of Health of the District of Columbia, Minister resident and Consul-General
to Haiti, and Charge d'Affaires to Santo Domingo. His election to Congress, therefore, was
the crowning achievement of a lifelong public career.

Hyman,[24] O'Hara,[25] Cheatham,[26] and White,[27] all of North Carolina, had held public
office prior to their election to Congress. Hyman and White had each been members of the State
Senate, the former for six years, from 1868 to 1874, while O'Hara and White had each served
in the lower house of the legislature. Hyman had been a delegate to the Constitutional Convention
of 1868, moreover, while O'Hara, who had also served as chairman of the Board of Commissioners
of the County of Halifax, had been a delegate to the Constitutional Convention of 1875. For
the eight years from 1886 to 1894, White served as prosecuting attorney for the second judicial
district of the State, while Cheatham, the fourth member of the North Carolina delegation,
had held but one office, that of Register of Deeds for Vance County.

