Manners of the Irish (Vol. viii., p. 5.).--In the very curious extract given by your correspondent
H., boyranne is very likely to stand for borbhan, the Irish for "lamentation" or "complaint."
An Irish landlord knows full well that, even up to the present day, his tenants "keep the bread,
and make borbhan." Molchan, I suspect, comes from miolc, whey. Localran stands for loisgrean,
corn turned out of the ear. As to the concluding line of the extract, I must leave it to some
better Irish scholar than I can boast myself.

 "I am the geyest mayed of all that brought the somer houme,"

plainly has reference to the old practice, still prevalent in some parts of Ireland on May-day,
when young girls carry about a figure dressed as a baby, singing the Irish song, [Irish: thugamar
féin an samhra linn], "We have brought the summer with us" (See Transactions of the Kilkenny
Archæological Society). Ultagh (Ultach) is Irish for an Ulster man, as H. will see by consulting
any Irish dictionary, and can have no connexion with Utlagh, the Kilkenny money-lender. Ugteller
is of course a misprint for Kyteller. Would that H. would give us his real name and address,
or at least allow me to ask whether H. F. H. do not constitute his initials in full.

JAMES GRAVES.

Kilkenny.

Arms of the See of York (Vol. viii., p. 34.).--I was about to send a note to "N. & Q.," pointing
out that Mr. Knight, in his heraldic illustrations to 2 Hen. IV., in his Pictorial Edition
of Shakspeare, has given the modern bearings of the see of York to Archbishop Scroope, instead
of those which belonged to that date, when I observed a Query from TEE BEE, asking the date
and origin of the change of arms which took place. I am sorry that I am unable to give any
authority for my statement, but I believe it to be not the less true, that the change in question
took place when Cardinal Wolsey came to the see. Nor can I give any farther reason for that
change than the notorious jealousy of the Cardinal towards the superior rank of the Archbishop
of Canterbury. Up to this period the arms of the two sees were precisely the same, though TEE
BEE gives the number of crosses "patée fitchée" on the pall for difference; I should be glad
to know whether there is good authority for this statement. The present arms of the see evidently
have reference to the dedication of the ancient cathedral church to St. Peter.

H. C. K.

---- Rectory, Hereford.

"Up, Guards, and at 'em!" (Vol. v., p. 426.).--These oft-quoted words have already engaged
the attention of the readers of "N. & Q." Your frequent correspondent C. (Vol. v., p. 426.)
is of opinion that the Duke did make use of these, or equivalent, words. The following extract
I have copied from an article in the June number of Bentley's Miscellany. It will be found
at p. 700. as a foot-note to a clever article, one of a series, entitled "Random Recollections
of Campaigns under the Duke of Wellington," written by an officer of the second brigade of Guards.

    "The expression attributed to the Duke of 'Up, guards, and at them
    again!' I have good reason for knowing was never made use of by him.
    He was not even with the brigade of Guards in question at the time
    they rose from their recumbent position to attack the French column in
    their front, and therefore could not well have thus addressed them. I
    never heard this story till long after, on my return to England, when
    it was related by a lady at a dinner-table; probably it was the
    invention of some goodly Botherby. I remember denying my belief at the
    time, and my view has since been sufficiently confirmed. Besides, the
    words bear no internal evidence of the style either of thought or even
    expression of him to whom they were attributed."

The invention of the goodly Botherby has prospered!

CUTHBERT BEDE, B. A.

Coleridge's Christabel--The 3rd Part (Vol. viii., pp. 11, 12.).--MR. J. S. WARDEN asks if I
am correct in stating the 3rd part of Christabel to be the composition of Dr. Maginn. I can
but "give my authority" in a reference to a sketch of Maginn's life, in a new and well-conducted
periodical, The Irish Quarterly Review, which, in the number for September, 1852, after giving
a most humorous account of a first interview between Blackwood and his wild Irish contributor,
who had for more than a year been mystifying the editor by contributions under various signatures,
proceeds thus:--

    "A few days before the first interview with Blackwood, Maginn had sent
    in his famous 'Third part of Christabel.' It is only to be found in the
    Magazine; and as many of our readers must be unacquainted with the
    poem, we here subjoin it."

{112} The poem follows, containing the lines which led to the first inquiry on this subject.

It was having read the Memoir in The Irish Quarterly which enabled me so promptly to remember
where the lines were to be found; but I had long before heard, and never doubted, that the
clever parody was composed by Dr. Maginn.

A. B. R.

Belmont.

Mitigation of Capital Punishment (Vol. viii., p. 42.).--I am sorry MR. GATTY takes the phrase
"mythic accompaniments" as an imputation on himself. I did not intend it for one, having no
doubt that he repeated the story as he heard it. In it were two statements of the highest decree
of improbability. One I showed (Vol. v., p. 434.) to be contrary to penal, the other to forensic
practice. One MR. GATTY found to have been only a report, the other to have occurred at a different
place and under different circumstances. Had these been stated in the first version, I should
not have disputed them. Whittington was thrice Lord Mayor of London--that is history, to which
the prophecy of Bow-bells and the exportation of the cat are "mythic accompaniments."

A word as to "disclosing only initials." I think you, as a means of authentification, should
have the name and address of every correspondent. You have mine, and may give them to any one
who pays me the compliment of asking; but I do not seek farther publicity.

H. B. C.

Oxford.

The Man with the Iron Mask (Vol. vii., pp. 234. 344.).--I think that Mr. James, in his Life
and Times of Louis XIV., has, to say the least, shown strong grounds for doubting the theory
which identifies this person with Mathioli; and since then several writers have been inclined
to fall back, in the want of any more probable explanation, on the old idea that the captive
was a twin brother of Louis. What has become of the letter from M. de St. Mars, said to have
been discovered some years ago, confirming this last hypothesis? Has any such letter been published,
and, if so, what is the opinion of its genuineness?

J. S. WARDEN.

Gentleman executed for Murder of a Slave (Vol. vii., p. 107.)--Sometime between 1800 and 1805,
Lord Seaforth being Governor of Barbadoes, a slaveowner, having killed one of his own slaves,
was tried for the murder and acquitted, the law considering that such an act was not murder.
Thereupon Lord Seaforth came to England, obtained an act of parliament declaring the killing
of a slave to be murder, and returned to Barbadoes to resume his official duties. Soon afterwards
another slave was killed by his owner, who was tried, convicted, and sentenced to be hanged
for murder under the new act of parliament. At the time appointed the prisoner was brought
out for execution, but so strong was public feeling, that the ordinary executioner was not
forthcoming; and on the governor requiring the sheriff to perform his office either in person
or by deputy, after some excuses he absolutely refused. The governor then addressed the guard
of soldiers, desiring a volunteer for executioner, adding, "whoever would volunteer should
be subsequently protected as well as rewarded then." One presented himself, and it thenceforth
became as dangerous to kill a slave as a freeman in Barbadoes.

G. M. E. C.

Jahn's Jahrbuch (Vol. viii., p. 34.).--Permit me to inform your correspondent E. C. that there
is a copy of Jahn's Jahrbücher für Philologie und Pädagogik in the library of Sir Robert Taylor's
Institution, Oxford. Although this library is for the use of members of the university, I am
sure the curators of the institution will give their permission to consult the books in it,
to any gentleman who is properly recommended to them.

J. MACRAY.

Oxford.

Character of the Song of the Nightingale (Vol. vii., p. 397.).--I imagine that many of the
writers quoted by your correspondent lived in places too far removed to the north or west (as
is my own case) ever to have heard the nightingale, and are, in consequence, not competent
authorities as to a song they can only have described at second hand; but that Shelley was
not far wrong in styling it voluptuous, and placing it amidst the luxurious bowers of Daphne,
may receive some confirmation from an anecdote told by Nimrod ("Life and Times," Fraser's Magazine,
vol. xxv. p. 301.) of the sad effects produced both on morals and parish rates by the visit
of a nightingale one summer to the groves of Erthig, near Wrexham.

J. S. WARDEN.

I accidently met with a scrap of evidence on this point lately, as I was driving at midnight
on a sudden call to visit a dying man. The nightingales were singing in full choir, when my
servant, an intelligent young man from the country, remarked, "A cheerful little bird the nightingale,
Sir. It is beautiful to hear them singing when one is walking alone on a dark night."

Unsophisticated judgment of this sort, when met with unsought, seems to be of real value in
a question depending for its decision so much upon the faithful record of impressions.

OXONIENSIS.

Walthamstow.

MR. CUTHBERT BEDE gives, in his list of epithets of the nightingale, "solemn," as used by Milton,
Otway, Graingle. How the last two employ the term I do not know, perhaps they {113} copied
from Milton; but he uses it, not as an epithet exactly, but to express the frequency of the
bird's appearance. "Night, her solemn bird," means the customary attendant of the night: solemn
being used in the classical sense, and derived front soles. So Virgil, "Solemnes tum forte
dapes et tristia dona ante urbem in luco," &c.

The word solemn probably acquired its present signification from the staid manner in which
Englishmen go through their customary ceremonies. "They took their pleasure sadly," as Froissart
has it.

SYDNEY GEDGE, B.A.

Mysterious Personage (Vol. viii., p. 34.).--There is no mystery about the legitimate claimant
of the British throne. He is the Duke of Modena, lineally descended from Henrietta of England,
youngest daughter of Charles I.: she married Philip Duke of Orleans, son of Louis XIII. and
Anne of Austria, and had two daughters; Louisa married to Charles II. of Spain (she died without
issue), and Anna Maria, married to Victor Amadeus, Duke of Savoy and King of Sardinia. Their
son Charles Emanuel III. succeeded in 1730, and was succeeded by his son Victor Amadeus III.
He was succeeded by his eldest son Charles Emanuel IV., who died without issue, and was succeeded
by his brother Victor Emanuel, who left twin daughters, the elder of whom, Mary Beatrice, married
Francis Duke of Modena, while the crown of Sardinia passed to her father's heirs male. The
Duchess Mary Beatrice of Modena has left two sons, the elder of whom (born June 14, 1819) is
the direct, undoubted heir of the House of Stuart.

L. M. M. R.

