In order to define Assyria exactly we should have to determine its frontiers, and that we can
only do approximately. As the nation grew its territory extended in certain directions. To
the east, however, where the formidable rampart of the Zagros forbade all progress, no such
extension took place. Those lofty and precipitous chains which we now call the mountains of
Kurdistan, were only to be crossed in two or three places, and by passes which during their
few months of freedom from snow and floods gave access to the high-lying plains of Media. These
narrow defiles might well be traversed by an army in a summer campaign, but neither dwellings
nor cultivated lands could invade such a district with success; at most they could take possession
of the few spots of fertile soil which lay at the mouth of the lateral valleys; such, for example,
was the plain of Arbeles which was watered by the great Zab before its junction with the Tigris.
Towards the south there was no natural barrier, but in that direction all development was hindered
by the density of the Chaldee population which was thickly spread over the country above Babylon
and about the numerous towns and villages which looked towards that city as their capital.
To the north, on the other hand, the wide terraces which mounted like steps from the plains
of Mesopotamia to the mountains of Armenia offered an ample field for expansion. To the west
there was still more room. Little by little rural and urban life overflowed the valley of the
Tigris into that of the Chaboras or Khabour, the principal affluent of the Euphrates, until
at last it reached the banks of the great western river itself. In all Northern Mesopotamia,
between the hills of the Sinjar and the last slopes of Mount Masius, the Assyrians encountered
only nomad tribes whom they could drive when they chose into the Syrian desert. Over all that
region the remains of artificial mounds have been found which must at one time have been the
sites of palaces and cities. In some cases the gullies cut in their flanks by the rain discover
broken walls and fragments of sculpture whose style is that of the Ninevitish monuments.[14]

In the course of their victorious career the Assyrians annexed several other states, such as
Syria and Chaldæa, Cappadocia and Armenia, but those countries were never more than external
dependencies, than conquered provinces. Taking Assyria proper at its greatest development,
we may say that it comprised Northern Mesopotamia and the territories which faced it from the
other bank of the Tigris and lay between the stream and the lower slopes of the mountains.
The heart of the country was the district lying along both sides of the river between the thirty-fifth
and thirty-seventh degree of latitude, and the forty-first and forty-second degree of longitude,
east. The three or four cities which rose successively to be capitals of Assyria were all in
that region, and are now represented by the ruins of Khorsabad, of Kouyundjik with Nebbi-Younas,
of Nimroud, and of Kaleh-Shergat. One of these places corresponds to Ninos, as the Greeks call
it, or Nineveh, the famous city which classic writers as well as Jewish prophets looked upon
as the centre of Assyrian history.

To give some idea of the relative dimensions of these two states Rawlinson compares the surface
of Assyria to that of Great Britain, while that of Chaldæa must, he says, have been equal in
extent to the kingdom of Denmark.[15] This latter comparison seems below the mark, when, compass
in hand, we attempt to verify it upon a modern map. The discrepancy is caused by the continual
encroachments upon the sea made by the alluvial deposits from the two great rivers. Careful
observations and calculations have shown that the coast line must have been from forty to forty-five
leagues farther north than it is at present when the ancestors of the Chaldees first appeared
upon the scene.[16] Instead of flowing together as they do now to form what is called the Shat-el-Arab,
the Tigris and Euphrates then fell into the sea at points some twenty leagues apart in a gulf
which extended eastwards as far as the last spurs thrown out by the mountains of Iran, and
westwards to the foot of the sandy heights which terminate the plateau of Arabia. "The whole
lower part of the valley has thus been made, since the commencement of the present geological
period, by deposits from the Tigris, the Euphrates, and such minor streams as the Adhem, the
Gyndes, the Choaspes, streams which, after having long enjoyed an independent existence and
having contributed to drive back the waters into which they fell, have ended by becoming mere
feeders of the Tigris."[17] We see, therefore, that when Chaldæa received its first inhabitants
it was sensibly smaller than it is to-day, as the district of which Bassorah is now the capital
and the whole delta of the Shat-el-Arab were not yet in existence. Collected and Illustrated
from Ancient and Modern Sources, by GEORGE RAWLINSON. Fourth edition, 3 vols., 8vo., with Maps
and Illustrations (Murray, 1879).

[3] HUMBOLDT, Aspects of Nature, vol. i. pp. 77, 78.--R.

[4] HERODOTUS, ii. 5.

[5] LOFTUS'S Chaldæa and Susiana, p. 282.--R.

[6] See STRABO, xvi. 1, § 6; PLINY, H.N. vi. 28; PTOLEMY, v. 20; BEROSUS, pp. 28, 29.--R.

[7] Ross came to the end of the alluvium and the commencement of the secondary formation in
lat. 34°, long. 44° (Journal of Geographical Society, vol. ix. p. 446). Similarly, Captain
Lynch found the bed of the Tigris change from pebbles to mere alluvium near Khan Iholigch,
a little above its confluence with the Aahun (Ib. p. 472). For the point where the Euphrates
enters on the alluvium, see Fraser's Assyria and Mesopotamia, p. 27.--R.

[8] RAWLINSON. The Five Great Monarchies, &c., vol. i., pp. 1-4. As to the name and boundaries
of Chaldæa, see also GUIGNAUT, La Chaldée et les Chaldéens, in the Encyclopédie Moderne, vol. viii.

[9] HERODOTUS, i. 106, 192; iii. 92.

[10] PLINY, Nat. Hist. vi. 26.

[11] STRABO, xvi. i. § 1.

[12] Genesis xi. 28 and 31; Isaiah xlvii. 1; xiii. 19, &c.; DIODORUS ii. 17; PLINY, Nat. Hist.
vi. 26; the Greek translators of the Bible rendered the Hebrew term Khasdim by Chaldaioi; both
forms seem to be derived from the same primitive word.

[13] STRABO, xvi. i. 1, 2, 3.

[14] LAYARD, Nineveh and its Remains, vol. i. pp. 312, 315; Discoveries, p. 245.

[15] RAWLINSON, Five Great Monarchies, vol. i. pp. 4, 5.

[16] LOFTUS, in the Journal of the Geographical Society, vol. xxvi. p. 142; Ib., Sir HENRY
RAWLINSON, vol. xxvii. p. 186.

[17] MASPERO, Histoire Ancienne des Peuples de l'Orient, p. 137.

§ 2.--Nature in the Basin of the Euphrates and Tigris.

The inundation of the Nile gives renewed life every year to those plains of Egypt which it
has slowly formed, and so it is with the Tigris and Euphrates. Lower Mesopotamia is entirely
their creation, and if the time were to come when their vivifying streams were no longer to
irrigate its surface, it would very soon be changed into a monotonous and melancholy desert.
It hardly ever rains in Chaldæa.[18] There are a few showers at the changes of the season,
and, in winter, a few days of heavy rain. During the summer, for long months together, the
sky remains inexorably blue while the temperature is hot and parching. In winter, clouds are
almost as rare; but winds often play violently over the great tracts of unbroken country. When
these blow from the south they soon lose their warmth and humidity at the contact of a soil
which, but a short while ago, was at the bottom of the sea, and is, therefore, in many places
still strongly impregnated with salt which acts as a refrigerant.[19] Again, when the north
wind comes down from the snowy summits of Armenia or Kurdistan, it is already cold enough,
so that, during the months of December and January, it often happens that the mercury falls
below freezing point, even in Babylonia. At daybreak the waters of the marshes are sometimes
covered with a thin layer of ice, and the wind increases the effect of the low temperature.
Loftus tells us that he has seen the Arabs of his escort fall benumbed from their saddles in
the early morning.[20]

It is, then, upon the streams, and upon them alone, that the soil has to depend for its fertility;
all those lands to which they never reach are doomed to barrenness and death. It is fortunate
for the prosperity of the country through which they flow, that the Tigris and Euphrates swell
and rise annually from their beds, not indeed like the Nile, almost on a stated day, but ever
in the same season, about the commencement of spring. Without these periodical floods many
parts of the plain of Mesopotamia would be beyond the reach of irrigation, but their regular
occurrence allows water to be stored in sufficient quantities for use during the months of
drought. To obtain the full advantage of this precious capital, the inhabitants must, however,
take more care and expend more labour than is necessary in Egypt. The rise of the Euphrates
and of the Tigris is neither so slow nor so regular as that of the Nile. The waters do not
spread so gently over the soil, neither do they stay upon it so long;[21] since they have been
abandoned to themselves as they are at present, a great part of them are lost, and, far from
rendering a service to agriculture, they turn vast regions into dangerous hot-beds of infection.

It was to the west of the double basin that the untoward effects of the territorial conformation
were chiefly felt. The valley of the Euphrates is not like that of the Nile, a canal hollowed
out between two clearly marked banks. From the northern boundary of the alluvial plain to the
southern, the slope is very slight, while from east to west, from the plains of Mesopotamia
to the foot of the Arabian plateau, there is also an inclination. When the river is in flood
the right bank no longer exists. Where it is not raised and defended by dykes, the waters flow
over it at more than one point. They spread through large breaches into a sort of hollow where
they form wide marshes, such as those which stretch in these days from the country west of
the ruins of Babylon almost to the Persian Gulf. In the parching heat of the summer months
the mud blackens, cracks, and exhales miasmic vapours, so that a long acclimatization, like
that of the Arabs, is necessary before one can live in the region. Some of these Arabs live
in forests of reeds like those represented in the Assyrian bas-reliefs.[22]

Their huts of mud and rushes rise upon a low island in the marshes; and all communication with
neighbouring tribes and with the town in which they sell the product of their rice-fields,
is carried on by boats. The brakes are more impenetrable than the thickest underwood, but the
natives have cut alleys through them, along which they impel their large flat-bottomed teradas
with poles.[23] Sometimes a sudden rise of the river will raise the level of these generally
stagnant waters by a yard or two, and during the night the huts and their inhabitants, men
and animals together, will be sent adrift. Two or three villages have been destroyed in this
fashion amid the complete indifference of the authorities. The tithe-farmer may be trusted
to see that the survivors pay the taxes due from their less fortunate neighbours.

