"Now, why were the colored troops left unsupported? Why were they sent on such hopeless missions?
Why were the officers informed by General Dwight that there were clear grounds beyond Sandy
Creek? There were white troops who could have been sent to their support; the officers expected
to fight the rebels but met the river. Colonel Nelson played General to perfection; during
the whole battle he remained on the safe side of Sandy Creek, and had his corps of orderlies
to attend him; in plain words he kept his men under fire from quarter before six A. M., till
seven P. M. During the day he never saw a rebel's face or back. * * * The heroes of the day
were the men; not one of them showed the "white feather." Colonel Bassett and his colored officers
of the 1st were as brave as any men who ever drew a sword, and so were Finnegass, Lieutenant-Colonel
of the 3rd, and Captains Smith, Daly, Masterson and others. Lieutenants O'Keefe, Burnham, Wiley,
Griggs, Emory, Westervelt and Dame of the 3rd, and Captain Quinn, who commanded the left wing
and led the storming column of the 3rd. Lieutenant-Colonel Bassett was formerly of the 4th
Mississippi Regiment; Colonel Nelson and Lieutenant-Colonel Finnegass, were both of Irish parentage;
Captain Daily and Lieutenant Emory, of the 31st Massachusetts, Lieutenant O'Keefe of the 9th
and Burnham, of the 13th Connecticut, Masterson and Wiley, of the 26th Massachusetts, Company
A, of the 3rd, were on detached service. Captain John E. Quinn is a native of Lowell, Mass.;
born April 22nd, 1837 came from the 30th Massachusetts, in which he was orderly of Company B."

       *       *       *       *

A correspondent of the New York Tribune writing, says:

     "The more I see of our colored regiments, and the more I
     converse with our soldiers, the more convinced I am that
     upon them we must ultimately rely as the principle source of
     our strength in these latitudes. It is perfect nonsense for
     any one to attempt to talk away the broad fact, evident as
     the sun at noonday, that these men are capable not only of
     making good soldiers, but the very best of soldiers. The
     Third Louisiana Native Guard, Colonel Nelson, are encamped
     here, and a more orderly, disciplined, robust, and effective
     set of men I defy any one to produce.

     "An old European officer, one who has followed the
     profession of arms from his very boyhood, said to me to-day:
     'In one essential respect, sir, I believe that in a short
     time these colored soldiers will surpass any we have in our
     army--I mean in subordination--without which no army can be
     effective. We are in the habit of carrying our citizenship
     with us into the field, and that begets an amount of undue
     familiarity between officers and men that is often
     destructive of obedience. Toward the black man we feel none
     of these delicate sentiments of equality, and he, on his
     part, has always been accustomed to be commanded. Beside
     this he is acclimated, knows the country thoroughly, and if
     called upon to fight will fight in earnest, for he knows
     that if taken prisoner he will meet no mercy.'

     "Colonel Nelson, anxious to have an opportunity of
     exhibiting to the world what his command is capable of, and
     thus put their manhood beyond all question, has implored
     General Banks to put him in the foremost point of danger in
     the coming struggle, and says that his men are as ready as
     himself to stake their lives upon the result; but the
     general--doubtless acting upon explicit orders--says they
     must, at present at least, be confined to manning the
     fortifications here.

     "I am happy to say that the feeling toward these colored
     regiments throughout the army is undergoing the most rapid
     and extraordinary changes. Soldiers that only a few months,
     nay, weeks ago, would have flown into a furious passion at
     the bare idea of a black man carrying a musket like
     themselves, now say, 'O, if you are going to give them white
     officers that is another affair altogether.'"

       *       *       *       *

The following letter gives some interesting recollections of the military events of the Department
of the Gulf:

                          "NEW ORLEANS, January 18th, 1883.

     "To Colonel J. T. Wilson, Norfolk, Va.:

     "FRIEND: Your two circulars issued from Cailloux Post No. 2
     on the 13th inst. are received. It is quite a compliment to
     Louisiana to have named your Post after the hero of Port
     Hudson, who immortalized himself in those celebrated charges
     in May, 1863.

     "It is over twenty years ago that I took a commission in the
     3d Louisiana Native Guard as a senior lieutenant of Company
     H. I was quite intimate with Captain Andre Cailloux.

     "Grave doubts had been expressed by Banks, the nominal
     commander, and his officers regarding the fitness of colored
     men as soldiers. The perplexing question was, 'Will they
     stand their christening under such a hail storm as will come
     from those bristling Port Hudson heights?' In fact those
     three colored regiments--the 1st, 2d, and 3d Louisiana
     Native Guards, organized in 1862, and afterward incorporated
     in the Ullman Brigade as the 73d, 74th, and 75th--had become
     more a subject of test than of real dependence at the
     critical juncture of trial.

     "General Osterhaus solved the mystery by taking command of a
     division, including the 1st and 3d Native Guards. Those
     magnificent series of charges were made by these two
     regiments. The first charge was made on a Sunday, the 27th
     day of May, 1863, supported on the right by the celebrated
     Duryea's Zouaves, of New York, which were mowed down like
     grass before a scythe. It was then and there that Captain
     Cailloux gloriously died in advance of his company while
     cheering his men. It was also on that day that the immortal
     color-bearer, Anselino, was killed, and fell within the
     folds of his regimental flag, which was besmeared with his
     blood, with the broken flag-staff in his hand. Other strong
     arms came to the rescue of the flag only to meet death until
     the honor of the flag alone cost the lives of sixteen men or
     more. The gallant Lieutenant Crowder was killed on the field
     of honor at the flower of his age. Captain Sauer was wounded
     in the foot while charging. The 3d Native Guards also
     sustained its reputation, and many deeds of valor were
     performed by its officers and men. But when after those
     engagements the roll-call was made we had many friends to
     mourn. You are aware, I suppose, of an historical fact.
     Jefferson Davis had issued a proclamation that any colored
     officer captured at the head of black troops would not be
     exchanged, but immediately hung. It was thus that Lieutenant
     Oscar Orillion, when captured at Jackson, La., was hung and
     shot to pieces.

     "Port Hudson was surrendered by General Pemberton the 8th of
     July, 1863. General Osterhaus became very proud of his
     colored regiments after what he had seen at Port Hudson.

     "Had these two regiments failed, or destiny betrayed their
     courage, the colored troops would have been universally
     condemned, and would not have been employed as soldiers, but
     used as servants, drivers, and laborers, on fortifications,
     bridges, and ditches. To the 2d Louisiana Native Guards
     belongs the honor of having had the first colored major in
     the army, and it is Major Ernest Dumas, now living and
     actually in New Orleans.

