 wall; (2) Bishop Drokensford (1309-29), builder of the
Lady Chapel; (3) shrine of unknown person. In N. choir aisle, Bishop Ralph de Salopia (1363),
builder of the choir (possibly removed here from the sanctuary). The effigies of the Saxon
bishops in the choir aisles were probably an after-thought of Bishop Joceline, who perhaps
thought that this tardy testimonial to the labours of his predecessors would be an effective
advertisement of the priority of his see. The labelled stone coffins of Dudoc and Giso are
said to have been unearthed within recent memory. In S. transept aisle are (1) Bishop Still
(1608); (2) Bishop Kidder, Ken's successor, killed by the fall of the palace chimney-stack
during a memorable storm in 1703; (3) against N. wall, Bishop T. Cornish (1513)--a tomb supposed
to have been used as an Easter sepulchre (cp. Pilton). The visitor should now inspect the cloisters,
and should observe in passing the fine external E.E. doorway ruthlessly obscured by the Perp.
vaulting. The cloisters form a covered ambulatory leading from the S. transept to the S.W.
corner of the nave. Bishop Joceline, Bishop Bubwith's executors, and Bishop Beckington all
seem to have had a hand in their construction; Beckington has stamped his rebus on some of
the bosses of the roof. The cathedral library forms an upper storey to the E. cloister, and
a corresponding chamber runs the length of the cloister opposite, now used as a choir practising
room. Note in E. cloister (1) external lavatories, (2) doorway in E. wall leading to a quiet
little burial-ground. This was the site of an additional lady chapel (late Perp.) built by
Bishop Stillington (1466-91). It was destroyed at the instigation of Bishop Barlow by Sir John
Gates, a fanatical Puritan, the wrecker of the palace hard by. Some fragments of the vaulting
are piled up in the cloisters, and a few traces of panelling remain on the exterior face of
the doorway. The burial-ground is a good position from which to view the external features
of the choir. The high architectural merit of Bishop Ralph's work will be quickly discerned,
and due note should be taken of the skilful way in which a structural necessity has been turned
to artistic advantage in the erection of the flying buttresses. In the earlier work they exist,
but are hidden away as unsightly props beneath the roof of the aisles. Their artistic possibilities
having caught the eye of the builder, they are here brought out into the light, and form a
very pleasing feature in the general design. The visitor should now return to the cathedral
in order to inspect the Vicars' Close, one of the unique features of Wells. The flight of stairs
which gives entrance to the chapter-house leads also by a covered bridge--known as the Chain
Gate--across the street into the Close, and thus forms a private passage whereby the singers
may pass from the church to their quarters. The public have to find their way by returning
to the street. Pass under the chain-gate, turn sharply to the left under another archway, and
the Close is before you. It is a quaint oblong court closed at one end by the entrance gateway,
and at the other by a chapel. On either side is a "quiet range of houses" with picturesque
gables and high chimneys. Note the "canting" escutcheons of Swan, Sugar, and Talbot, Beckington's
executors, on some of the chimneys. The houses, which were intended as the abode of the college
of singing clerks, have been much modernised; but one or two still retain some semblance of
their original design. The idea of gathering the singers together into a fraternity was Bishop
Ralph's. He provided them with these picturesque dwellings, and gave them the common dining-hall
which forms the upper storey of the entrance gateway. This is said to be one of the most beautiful
examples of mid-14th-cent. domestic architecture in the country. It was enlarged subsequently
by Rich. Pomeroy (temp. Hen. VIII.), and Bishop Beckington's executors are said to have built
the chapel at the other end of the Close. Regarded now-a-days as a devotional superfluity by
the singers, it has been turned over to the Theological College. The chapel and muniment room
above should be inspected, but admission cannot now be obtained to the hall. Before leaving
the Cathedral precincts note on the same side of the road as the Vicars' Close (in order, westwards):
(1) the Archdeacon's House, now used as the College library, (2) the Deanery--an embattled
residence with gatehouse and turrets, built by Dean Gunthorpe, 1472-98 (the imposing character
of the building is not discernible from the road, as the real front faces the garden), (3)
Browne's Gate, through which the Close is entered from Sadler Street. The remainder of the
official residences of the chapter lie to the N. of the Deanery, outside the Close, in a street
called the E. Liberty--so named because it lay outside parochial jurisdiction. Though much
modernised, they are mostly mediaeval buildings. The path which traverses the Cathedral green
enters the Market place by the third of the Close gate-ways--Penniless Porch, where alms are
said to have been periodically distributed. This was the work of Beckington; note the prelate's
arms on W. face, and rebus (a beacon and tun) on the E. side. Beckington made the city his
debtor by giving it a water supply. He tapped the well in the palace garden, which feeds the
fountain in the square. Note the quaint method of distributing the overflow.

Next in interest to the Cathedral is the Palace. It is approached either from the cloisters
or through another of Beckington's porches, called the Palace Eye. Both entrances give access
to the outer court. Within is a second court containing the palace. This inclosure is protected
by crenellated walls and surrounded by a moat. These semi-fortifications were erected by Bishop
Ralph, who perhaps found that a mitre was as uneasy a headgear as a crown. A gate-house, with
a drawbridge commands the entrance. If the porter has not been too worried by tourists a peep
may sometimes be obtained at the sacred enclosure. The actual palace forms the E. boundary
of what was once a stately quadrangle. The kitchens formed the N. wing, and on the S. was the
chapel and hall. The latter is now only a picturesque ruin. The oldest part of the structure
has oddly enough been the one to survive. With the exception of the modern upper storey, the
existing palace was the work of Bishop Joceline (1206-42). It consists of a groined basement,
forming an entrance hall (note chimney piece) and dining hall. Above are the household apartments
and a picture gallery, hung with portraits of former occupants of the see. The chapel and the
now dismantled great hall on the S. were built by Bishop Burnell (1274-92). The chapel remains
intact. It is a fine Dec. building, with groined roof and some good window tracery. Of the
hall only the N. and W. walls and some detached turrets now survive. It was originally a chamber
of quite majestic proportions, covered by a wooden roof and lighted on either side by some
tall 2-light Dec. windows. At the W. end stood the buttery and above it the solar (a "sunny"
drawing-room). The palace appears to have been sold by Bishop Barlow to Protector Somerset,
and upon the dispersal of Somerset's ill-gotten gains it passed into the hands of Sir J. Gates,
who unroofed the building for the sake of its lead and timber. The ruin of the fabric was completed
by Dean Burgess (temp. Cromwell), who used it as a quarry for the repair of the Deanery. A
kind of poetic justice eventually overtook both these depredators. Gates lost his head and
Burgess his liberty. A particularly picturesque bit of the palace is the N. face overlooking
the moat. The dead surface of the wall is prettily broken by some projecting oriel windows,
the insertion of Bishop Clarke (1523-40). The gardens are delightful, and are watered by St
Andrew's well which gushes from its hidden sources to overflow into the moat. A visitor may
occasionally enjoy the mild sensation of seeing a bevy of swans ring a bell for their dinner.
To the right of the broad public walk which runs along the W. side of the moat is the city
recreation ground in which will be noticed the old episcopal barn. It is a good example of
a mediaeval granary, and is said to be of the same age as the N.W. tower of the Cathedral.
It has an unusual number of buttresses.

It is the misfortune, not the fault, of the subordinate churches of a cathedral city that they
arouse but a languid interest in the already surfeited sight-seer. Wells has one other church
which merits more than a passing attention. St Cuthbert's is a Perp. building of generous dimensions.
It possesses an exceedingly fine tower of the best Somerset type--massive and graceful--belonging
to the same class as the towers of Wrington and Evercreech, but spoilt by a want of proportion
between the upper and lower stages. The interior of the church is spacious and imposing, and
contains a good panelled roof. The E.E. capitals of the piers and some old roof marks suggest
that it was originally an E.E. cruciform fabric, altered by Perp. builders, and heightened
by the erection of a clerestory. There is documentary evidence that a "public collection" was
made in 1561 to repair the havoc caused by the collapse of the central tower. The transeptal
chapels were once brilliant with statuary and colour, but the axes and hammers of the image
breakers have successfully purged them of their original glory. All that is left for the admiration
of the modern visitor are a few gaping recesses and a pile of gathered fragments. Note (1)
double transepts, (2) oak pulpit, (3) Dec. window with Jesse altar-piece in S. transept, (3)
piscinas, in chancel and S. choir aisle, (5) mutilated figure of knight in ruff and armour
at E. end of N. aisle, (6) tomb with figure (1614) under tower. The other antiquities of Wells
are (1) Bishop Bubwith's alms-houses in Chamberlain Street (near St Cuthbert's Church)--an
eccentric building, containing a number of separate cells, a chapel and a small hall under
one roof (note old alms chest in hall, now called the Committee room), (2) some ancient timber-work
in the courtyard of the Crown Inn.

Amongst the more interesting walks in the neighbourhood are (1) Arthur's Point, offering a
good view of the Glastonbury plain; (2) Tor and Dulcot hills on the Shepton road; (3) Ebbor
rocks near Wookey Hole.

Wembdon, a parish 1 m. N.W. of Bridgwater, of which it is virtually a suburb. The church has
been restored (after a fire in 1868), and its ancient features have been obliterated. On the
S. of the building is an old cross.

Westbury (stat. Lodge Hill), a village on the road between Wells and Axbridge, 4 m. N.W. from
the former town. It has an interesting church (ded. to St Lawrence), with a W. tower of the
prevailing Perp. type, but supported on a Norm. arch (the flanking columns do not reach the
ground). There is also a Norm. door on the N. side, now blocked. In the S. porch note the doors
which once led to the parvise or gallery above, and the holy-water stoup. The E. window is
Dec., with the interior arch foliated. The S. aisle has a small chapel at the E. end, containing
a tomb of George Rodney (d. 1586).

Weston, a parish forming a suburb of Bath. Of its church the only old portion is the tower,
with angular buttresses finishing in pinnacles. The nave was rebuilt in 1832.

Weston Bampfylde, a parish 1 m. S. of Sparkford. Its little church has a W. octagonal tower
on a square base. Within the building should be noticed (1) the rood staircase, which has been
thrown open; (2) the Norm. font with cable mouldings; (3) the two squints.

Weston-in-Gordano, a village 3 m. N.E. of Clevedon, on the Portishead road. Its little church
is well worth inspection. The tower (with a pyramidal top) is said to be E.E., and is placed
on the S. side of the church (rather an exceptional position in this county). The most interesting
features are (1) indications of a gallery over the S. porch (intended to be used by choristers
on Palm Sunday); (2) holy water stoup within S. door; (3) curious 13th-cent. stone reading-desk
or pulpit in S. wall; (4) "Miserere" seats in the choir, with their quaint carvings (attributed
to the 14th cent.); (5) Jacobean oak pulpit; (6) Norm. font; (7) sanctus bell-cot; (8) fine
15th-cent. tomb (with French epitaph) of "Rycharde Persyvale"; (9) piscina in S. wall. There
is an altar-tomb in the churchyard, said to belong to a Percival of the time of Richard I.

