The feeling of which we speak is one that arose from the rapid growth of this country, and
of the fears that that growth had created as to the safety of European States. It had nothing
to do with the character of our national polity, or with the political opinions of our people.
It would have existed all the same, if we had been governed by an Autocrat or a Stratocrat,
instead of having a movable President for our chief. It would have been as strong, if our national
legislature had been as quiescent as Napoleon I.'s Senate, instead of being a reckless and
an undignified Congress. It owed its existence to our power, our growth, our ambition, our
"reannexing" spirit, our disposition to meddle with the affairs of others, our restlessness,
and our frequent avowals of an intention to become masters of all the Occident. We might have
been regarded as even more dangerous than we were, had our government been as firmly founded
as that of Russia, or had it, like that of France, the power that proceeds at once from the
great intellect and the great name of its chief. A Napoleon or a Nicholas at the head of a
people so intelligent and so active as Americans would indeed have been a most formidable personage,
and likely to employ his power for the disturbance of mankind.

But in addition to the fear that was created by our rapid growth in greatness, the rulers of
foreign nations regarded us with apprehension because of our political position. We stood at
the head of the popular interest of Christendom, and all that we effected was carried to the
credit of popular institutions. We stood in antagonism to the monarchical and aristocratical
polities of Europe. The greater our success, the stronger was the testimony borne by our career
against the old forms of government. Our example was believed to have brought about that French
movement which had shaken the world. The French Revolution was held to be the child of the
American Revolution; and if we had accomplished so much in our weak youth, what might not be
expected from our example when we should have passed into the state of ripened manhood? Our
existence in full proportions would be a protest against hereditary rule and exclusiveness.
Imitation would follow, and every existing political interest in Europe was alarmed at the
thought of the attacks to which it was exposed, and which might be precipitated at any moment.
On the other hand, if our "experiment" should prove a failure, if democracy should come to
utter grief in America, if civil war, debt, and the lessening of the comforts of the masses
should be the final result of our attempt to establish the sovereignty of the people, would
not the effect be fatal to the popular cause in Europe? Certainly there would be a great reaction,
perhaps as great, and even as permanent, as that Catholic reaction which began in the generation
that followed the death of Luther, and which has been so forcibly painted by the greatest literary
artists of our time. This was the second cause of that interest in our conflict which has prevailed
in Europe, which still prevails there, and which has compelled Europeans of all classes, our
foes as well as our friends, to turn their attention to our land. "The eyes of the world are
upon us!" is a common saying with egotistical communities and parties, and mostly it is ridiculously
employed; but it was the soberest of facts for the three years that followed the Battle of
Bull Run. If that gaze has latterly lost some of its intensity, it is because the thought of
intervention in our quarrel has, to appearance, been abandoned even by the most inveterate
of Tories who are not at the same time fools or the hireling advocates of the Confederate cause.
Intervention in Mexico, too, whatever its success, has proved a more difficult and a more costly
business than was expected, and has indisposed men who wish our fall to be eager in taking
any part in bringing it about. It may be, too, that the opinion prevails in Europe that the
Rebels are quite equal to the work which there it is desired should here be wrought, and that
policy requires that both parties should be allowed to bleed to death, perishing by their own
hands. If American democracy is bent upon suicide, why should European aristocrats interfere
openly in the conflict?

We admit that the inference which the European foes of freedom are prepared to draw from our
unhappy quarrel would be perfectly correct, if they started from a correct position. If our
polity is a democratic polity, and if the end thereof is disunion, civil war, debt, immense
suffering, and the fear of the conflict assuming even a social character before it shall have
been concluded and peace restored, then is the conclusion inevitable that a democracy is no
better than any other form of government, and is as bad as aristocracy or pure monarchy, under
both of which modes of governing states there have been civil wars, heavy expenditures, much
suffering for all classes of men, and great insecurity for life and property. Assuredly, democracy
never could hope for a fairer field than has here existed; and if here it has failed, the friends
of democracy must suffer everywhere, and the cause of democracy receive a check from which
it cannot hope to recover for generations. As "the horrors of the French Revolution" have proved
most prejudicial to the popular cause for seventy years, so must the failure of the American
"experiment" prove prejudicial to that cause throughout Christendom. Our failure must be even
more prejudicial than that of France; for the French movement was undertaken under circumstances
that rendered failure all but certain, whereas ours was entered upon amid the most favoring
conditions, such as seemed to make failure wellnigh impossible. But we do not admit that the
position assumed by our European enemies is a sound one, and therefore we hold that the conclusion
to which they have come, and from which they hope to effect so much for the cause of oppression,
is entirely erroneous. Whether we have failed or not, the democratic principle remains unaffected.
As we never have believed that our example was fairly quotable by European democrats, even
when we appeared to be, and in most respects were, the most successful of constitutionally
governed nations, so do we now deny that our failure to preserve peace in the old Union can
be adduced in evidence against the excellence of democracy, as that is understood by the advanced
liberals of Europe. As there is nothing in the history of the French Revolution that should
make reflecting men averse to constitutional liberty, so is there nothing in the history of
our war that should cause such men to become hostile to that democratic idea which, as great
observers assure us, is to overcome and govern the world.

If we have failed, if our conflict is destined to end in a "general break-down," so unhappy
a close to a grand movement will not be due to the ascendency of democracy here, but rather
to democracy having by us been kept down and depressed. Our polity is not a democratic polity.
It was never meant that it should be a democratic polity. Judging from the history of the doings
of the national convention which made the Federal Constitution, and of the State conventions
which ratified it, we should be justified in saying that the chief object of "the fathers"
was to prevent the existence of a democracy in America. Their words and deeds are alike adverse
to the notion that democracy had many friends here in the years that followed the achievement
of our nationality. What might have happened, had the work of constitution-making been entered
upon two or three years later, so that we should have had to read of Frenchmen and Americans
engaged at the same time in the same great business, it might be interesting to inquire, as
matter of curiosity; but our government under the Constitution had been fairly organized some
days before the last States-General of France met, and, much as this country was subsequently
influenced by considerations that proceeded from the French Revolution, they did not affect
our polity, while they largely affected our policy. Some eminent men, who were much under the
influence of French ideas, and others who were democratically inclined by their mental constitution,
did not altogether approve of the polity which had been formed and ratified, and they represented
the extreme left of the country,--as others, who thought that polity too liberal, (too feeble,
they would have said,) represented the extreme right. These men agreed in nothing but this,
that the Federal Constitution was but a temporary contrivance, and destined to last only until
one extreme party or the other should succeed in overthrowing it, and substituting for it a
polity in which either liberty or power should embody a complete triumph. Probably not one
of their number ever dreamed that it would have seventy-two years of unbroken existence, or
that the first serious attack made on it would proceed from the quarter whence that attack
was destined to come.

That our polity ever should have been looked upon as democratical in its character, as well
at home as abroad, is one of the strangest facts in political history. Probably it is owing
to some popular expressions in the Constitution itself. "We, the People of the United States,"
are the first words of the instrument, and they are represented as ordaining and establishing
the Constitution. Some of the provisions of the Constitution are of a popular character, beyond
doubt; but they are, in most instances, not inspirations, but derived from English experience,--and
it will hardly be pretended that England was an armory from which democracy would think of
drawing special weapons. Our fathers, as it were, codified English ideas and practices, because
they knew them well, and knew them to be good. The two legislative chambers, the privilege
of the writ of habeas corpus, the good-behavior tenure of judges, and generally the modes of
procedure, were taken from England; and they are not of democratic origin, while they are due
to the action of aristocrats. The English Habeas-Corpus Act has been well described as "the
most stringent curb that ever legislation imposed on tyranny"; and that act was the work of
the English Whigs, the most aristocratical party that ever existed, and it was as dear to Tories
as to Whigs. Democracy had no more to do with its existence than with the existence of the
earth. No democratic movement has ever aimed to extend this blessing to other countries. In
forming our judicial system, the men of 1787-'91 paid little regard to democracy, making judges
practically independent. There have been but two Chief Justices of the United States for wellnigh
sixty-four years, though it is well known that Chief-Justice Marshall was as odious to the
Jeffersonians of the early part of the century as Chief-Justice Taney is to the ascendent party
of the last four years. Mansfield did not hold his seat more securely in England than Marshall
held his in America, though Mansfield was as emphatically a favorite of George III. as Marshall
was detestable in the eyes of President Jefferson, who seems to have looked upon the Federal
Supreme Court with feelings not unlike to those with which James II. regarded the Habeas-Corpus
Act. Had he been the head of a democratic polity, as he was the head of the democratic party,
President Jefferson would have got rid of the obnoxious Chief Justice as summarily as ever
a Stuart king ridded himself of an independent judge. And he would have been supported by his
political friends,--democrats being quite as ready to support tyranny, and to punish independent
officials, as ever were aristocrats or monarchists.

The manner in which Congress is constituted ought alone to suffice to show that our polity
is thoroughly anti-democratic. The House of Representatives has the appearance of being a popular
body; but a popular body it is not, in any extended sense. The right to vote for members of
the House is restricted, in some States essentially so. As matters stood during the whole period
between the first election of Representatives and the closing days of 1860, a large number
of members were chosen as representatives of property in men, a number sufficiently large to
decide the issue of more than one great political question. In the Congress that met in December,
1859, the last Congress of the old régime, one eleventh part of the Representatives, or thereabout,
represented slaves! Could anything be more opposed to democratic ideas than such a basis of
representation as that? Does any one suppose it would be possible to incorporate into a democratic
constitution that should be formed for a European nation a provision giving power in the legislature
to men because they were slaveholders, allowing them to treat their slaves as beasts from one
point of view, and to regard them as men and women from another point of view? Even in the
Free States, and down to recent times, large numbers of men have been excluded from voting
for Members of Congress because of the closeness of State laws. At this very time, the State
of Rhode Island--a State which in opinion has almost invariably been in advance of her sisters--maintains
a suffrage-system that is considered illiberal, if not odious, in Massachusetts; and Massachusetts
herself is very careful to guard the polls so jealously that she will not allow any man to
vote who does not pay roundly for the "privilege" of voting, while she provides other securities
that operate so stringently as sometimes to exclude even men who have paid their money. Universal
suffrage exists nowhere in the United States, nor has its introduction ever been proposed in
any part of this country. The French imperial system of voting approaches much nearer to universality
than anything that ever has been known in America; and yet England manages to get along tolerably
well with her imperial and democratic neighbor. Perhaps imperialism sweetens democracy for
her, just as democracy salts imperialism in France.

But our House of Representatives, as originally constituted, was a democratic body, when compared
with "the upper chamber," the Senate. The very existence of an "upper chamber" was an invasion
of democratic ideas. If the people are right, why institute a body expressly for the purpose
of checking their operations? Yet, in making our Constitution, not only was such a body instituted,
but it was rendered as anti-democratic and as aristocratical as it could possibly be made.
Its members were limited to two from each State, so that perfect equality between the States
existed in the Senate, though one State might have four million inhabitants, and its neighbor
not one hundred thousand. How this worked in practice will appear from the statement of a few
facts. The year before the war began, the three leading States of the Union, New York, Pennsylvania,
and Ohio, had, in round numbers, ten millions of people, and they sent six members to the Senate,
or the same number with Delaware, Florida, and Oregon, which had not above a twelfth part as
many. Massachusetts had seven times as many people as Rhode Island, and each had two Senators.
And so on through the whole roll of States. The Senators are not popularly elected, but are
chosen by the State legislatures, and for the long term of six years, while Representatives
are elected by the people, every two years. The effect was, that the Senate became the most
powerful body in the Republic, which it really ruled during the last twelve years of the old
Union's existence, when our Presidents were of the Forcible-Feeble order of men. The English
have Mr. Mason in their country, and they make much of him; and he will tell them, if asked,
that the Senate was the chief power of the American State in its last days. That it was so
testifies most strongly to the fact that our polity is not democratic. Yet it was to the peculiar
constitution of the Senate that the seventy-two years of the Union were due; and had nothing
occurred to disturb its formation, we should have had no Secession War. There was no danger
that Secession could happen but what came from the existence of Slavery; and so long as the
number of Slave States and of Free States remained the same, it was impossible to convince
any large portion of the slaveholders that their beloved institution could be put in danger.
But latterly the Free States got ahead of the Slave States, and then the Secessionists had
an opportunity to labor to some purpose, and that opportunity they did not neglect. It was
to preserve the relative position of the two "sections" that the Missouri Compromise was repealed
in 1854, in the hope and expectation that several new States might be made that should set
up Slavery, and be represented by slaveholders. Had this nefarious scheme succeeded, it would
have saved us from the Secession War; but it would have brought other evils upon the country,
which, in the long run, might have proved as great as those under which we are now suffering.
We were reduced to a choice of evils; and though we chose blindly, it is by no means certain
that we did not choose wisely. As in all other cases, the judgment must depend upon the event,--and
the judges are gentlemen who sit in courts-martial.

The manner in which the President and Vice-President of the United States were chosen was the
reverse of democratical. Each State had the right to cast as many Electoral votes as it had
Representatives in Congress, which was a democratic arrangement up to a certain point; but
as a score and upward of the Representatives owed their existence to the existence of Slavery,
the equality of the arrangement was more apparent than real. Yet farther in the direction of
inequality: each State was allowed two Electors who answered to its Senators, which placed
New Jersey on a footing with New York, Delaware with Pennsylvania, and Florida with Ohio, in
utter disregard of all democratic ideas. The simple creation of Electoral Colleges was an anti-democratic
proceeding. The intention of the framers of the Constitution was that the Electors of each
State should be a perfectly independent body, and that they should vote according to their
own sense of duty. We know that they never formed an independent body, and that they became
at once mere agents of parties. This failure was in part owing to a sort of Chalcedonian blindness
in the National Convention of 1787. That convention should have placed the choice of Electors
where it placed the choice of Senators,--in the State legislatures. This would not have made
the Electors independent, but it would have worked as well as the plan for choosing Senators,
which has never been changed, and which it has never been sought to change. The mode of choosing
a President by the National House of Representatives, when the people have failed to elect
one, is thoroughly anti-democratic. The voting is then by States, the small States being equal
to the great ones. Delaware then counts for as much as New York, though Delaware has never
had but one Representative, and during one decennial term New York's Representatives numbered
forty! Twice in our history--in 1801 and in 1825--have Presidents been chosen by the House
of Representatives.

The manner in which it is provided that amendments to the Constitution shall be effected amounts
to a denial of the truth of what is considered to be an American truism, namely, that the majority
shall rule. Two-thirds of both Houses of Congress, or two-thirds of the legislatures of the
several States, must unite in the first instance, before amendments can be proposed, or a convention
called in which to propose them. If thus far effected, they must be ratified by three-fourths
of the States, before they can be incorporated into the Constitution. The process is as difficult
as that which awaited the proposer of an amendment to the legislation of the Locrian lawgiver,
who made his motion with a rope round his neck, with which he was strangled, if that motion
was negatived. The provisions of Article V. pay no more attention to the mere majority of the
people than Napoleon III would pay to a request from the majority of Frenchmen to abdicate
that imperial position which he won for himself, and which it is his firm purpose shall remain
in his family.

It would be no difficult matter to point out other anti-democratic provisions in our National
Constitution; and it would be easy to show that in the Constitutions of most of our States,
if not in all of them, there are provisions which flagrantly violate the democratic principle,
and of which European democrats never could approve. All through the organic laws of the Nation
and the States there are to be found restraints on numbers, as if the leading idea of the Constitution-makers
of America were aversion to mere majorities, things that fluctuate from year to year,--almost
from day to day,--and therefore are not to be trusted. We are stating the fact, and it does
not concern our purpose to discuss the wisdom of what has here been done. How happened it,
then, that our polity was so generally regarded as purely democratical in its character? Partly
this was owing to the extremely popular nature of all our political action, and to the circumstances
of the country not admitting of any struggle between the rich and the poor. Because there was
no such struggle, it was inferred that the rich had been conquered by the poor, when the truth
was, that, outside of the cities and large towns, there were no poor from whom to form a party.
Degrees of wealth, and of means below wealth, there were, and there were poor men; but there
was no class of poor people, and hence no material from which to form a proletarian party.
In all our great party-conflicts the wealth and talents of the country were not far from equally
divided, the wealth and ability of the South being mostly with the democratic party, while
those of the North were on the side of their opponents; but to this rule there were considerable
exceptions. Foreigners could not understand this; and their conclusion was that the masses
had their own way in America, and that property was at their mercy, as it is said by some writers
to have been at the mercy of the democracy of Athens.[J] We were said to have established universal
suffrage, when in fact suffrage was limited in every State, and in some States essentially
limited, the abuses that from time to time occurred happening in great towns for the most part.
Most citizens were legal voters in the larger number of the States; but this was owing, not
altogether to the liberal character of our polity or legislation, but to the general prosperity
of the country, which made tax-paying easy and intelligence common, and hence caused myriads
of men to take a warm interest in politics who in other countries never would have thought
of troubling themselves about politics, save in times of universal commotion. The political
appearance presented by the country was that of a democracy, beyond all question. America seemed
to be a democratic flat to the foreigner. To him the effect was much the same as follows from
looking upon a map. Look upon a map, and there is nothing but flatness to be seen, the most
perfect equality between all parts of the earth. There are neither mountains nor villages,
neither elevations nor chasms, nothing but conventional marks to indicate the existence of
such things. The earth is a boundless plain, on which the prairie is as high as Chimborazo.
The observer of the real earth knows that such is not the case, and that inequality is the
physical world's law. So was it here, to the foreign eye. All appeared to be on the same level,
when he looked upon us from his home; but when he came amongst us, he found that matters here
differed in no striking respect from those of older nations. Yet so wedded were foreigners
to the notion that we were all democrats, and that here the majority did as it pleased them
to do, that, but a short time before his death,--which took place just a year before the beginning
of the Secession movement,--Lord Macaulay wrote a letter in which he expressed his belief that
we should fall because of a struggle between the rich and the poor, for which we had provided
by making suffrage universal! He could not have been more ignorant of the real sources of the
danger that threatened us, if he had been an American who resolutely closed his eyes, and then
would not believe in what he would not see. When such a man could make such a mistake, and
supposed that we were to perish from an agrarian revolt,--we being then on the eve of a revolt
of the slaveholders,--it cannot be matter for wonder that the common European belief was that
the United States constituted a pure and perfect democracy, or that most Europeans of the higher
classes should have considered that democracy as the most impure and imperfect of political
things.[K]

The long and almost unbroken ascendency of the democratic party in this country had much to
do with creating the firm impression that our system was democratic in its character,--men
not discriminating closely between that party and the polity of which it had charge. Originally,
some reproach attached to the word Democrat, considered as a party-name; and it was not generally
accepted until after the Jeffersonian time had passed away. Men who would now be called Democrats
were known as Republicans in the early part of the century. But the word conquered a great
place for itself, and became the most popular of political names, so that even respectable
Whigs did not hesitate to appropriate it to their own use. Whatever name it was known by, the
democratic party took possession of the Federal Government in 1801, and held it through an
unbroken line of Virginia Presidents for twenty-four years. The Presidential term of Mr. J.Q.
Adams was no breach of democratic party-rule in fact, whatever it was in name, for almost every
man who held high office under Mr. Adams was a Jeffersonian democrat. In 1829 the new democratic
party came into power, and held office for twelve successive years. The Whig victory of 1840
hardly interrupted that rule, as President Harrison's early death threw power into the hands
of Mr. Tyler, who was an ultra-Jeffersonian democrat, a Pharisee of the Pharisees. Mr. Polk,
a Jacksonian democrat, was President from 1845 to 1849. The four years that followed saw the
Presidential chair filled by Whigs, General Taylor and Mr. Fillmore; and those four years form
the only time in which men who had had no connection with the democratic party wielded the
executive power of the United States. General Pierce and Mr. Buchanan, both democrats, were
at the head of the Government for the eight years that followed Mr. Fillmore's retirement.
Thus, during the sixty years that followed Mr. Jefferson's inauguration in 1801, the Presidency
was held by democrats for fifty-six years, President Harrison himself being a democrat originally,--and
if he is to be counted on the other side, the counting would not amount to much, as he was
President less than five weeks. Even in those years in which the democrats did not have the
Presidency, they were powerful in Congress, and generally controlled Federal legislation. It
was natural, when the democratic party was so successful under our polity, that that polity
should itself be considered democratic. In point of fact, the polity was as democratic as the
party,--our democrats seldom displaying much sympathy with liberal ideas, and in their latter
days becoming even servilely subservient to Slavery. It is but fair to add, that down to 1854
their sins with respect to Slavery were rather those of position than of principle, and that
their action was no worse than would have been that of their opponents, had the latter been
the ruling party. But, as the democratic party did rule here, and was supposed to hold to democratic
principles, the conclusion was not unreasonable that we were living under a democratic polity,
the overthrow of which would be a warning to the Liberals of Europe.

Our polity was constitutional in its character, strictly so; and if it has failed,--which we
are far indeed from admitting,--the inference would seem fairly to be, that Constitutionalism
has received a blow, not Democracy. As England is the greatest of constitutional countries,
our failure, supposing it to have occurred, tells with force against her, from whose system
we have drawn so much, and not adversely to the cause of European democracy, from whose principles
and practice we have taken little. To us it seems that our war bears hard upon no government
but our own, upon no people but ourselves, upon no party but American parties. It is as peculiar
in its origin as in its modes. It had its origin in the existence of Slavery, and Slavery here
existed in the worst form ever known among men. Until Slavery shall be found elsewhere in combination
with Constitutionalism or Democracy, it would be unfair to quote our contest as a warning to
other liberally governed lands. We were a nation with a snake in its bosom; and as no other
nation is similarly afflicted, our misfortune cannot be cited in the case of any other community.
Free institutions are to be judged by their effect when they have had fair play, and not by
what has happened in a republic which sought to have them in an unnatural alliance with the
most detestable form of tyrannical oppression. REVIEWS AND LITERARY NOTICES.

A Summer Cruise on the Coast of New England. By Robert Carter. Boston: Crosby & Nichols, pp. 261.

In these days, when the high price of paper makes it easy for authors to sell by the pound
what no one would take by the single copy, he is luckiest who has made the heaviest book. Our
morning newspaper nowadays is a kind of palimpsest, and one cannot help wondering how many
dead volumes, how many hopes and disappointments, lie buried under that surface made smooth
for the Telegraph (sole author who is sure of readers) to write upon. We seem to detect here
and there a flavor of Jones's Poem or Smith's History, something like the rhythm of the one
and the accuracy of the other. Quot libras autore summo invenies? is the question for booksellers
now.

In a metaphysical sense, one is apt to find many heavy books for one weighty one, and it is
as difficult to make light reading that shall have any nutriment in it as to make light bread.
Mr. Carter has succeeded in giving us something at once entertaining and instructive. One who
introduces us to a new pleasure close by our own doors, and tells us how we may have a cheap
vacation of open air, with fresh experience of scenery and adventure at every turn, deserves
something of the same kind of gratitude as he who makes two blades of grass grow where one
grew before. Americans, above all other men, need to be taught to take a vacation, and how
to spend one so as to find in it the rest which mere waste of time never gives. Mr. Carter
teaches us how we may have all the pleasure without any of the responsibilities of yachting,
and, reversing the method of our summer migration, shows us the shore from the sea.

Hakluyt and Purchas have made us familiar with, the landscape of our coast to the early voyagers,--with
its fringe of forest to the water's edge, its fair havens, its swarms of wild fowl, its wooded
islets tangled with grape-vines, its unknown mountains looming inland, and its great rivers
flowing out of the realm of dream; but its present aspect is nearly as unfamiliar to us as
to them. We know almost as little of the natives as Gosnold. Mr. Carter's voyage extends from
Plymouth to Mount Desert, and he lands here and there to explore a fishing-village or seaport
town, with all the interest of an outlandish man. He describes scenery with the warmth of a
lover of Nature and the accuracy of a geographer. Acting as a kind of volunteer aide-de-camp
to a naturalist, he dredges and fishes both as man of science and amateur, and makes us more
familiarly acquainted with many queer denizens of fin-land. He mingles with our fishermen,
and finds that the schoolmaster has been among them also. His book is lively without being
flippant, and full of information without that dulness which is apt to be the evil demon of
statistics. The moral of it is, that, as one may travel from Dan to Beersheba and see nothing,
so one needs but to open his eyes to the life and Nature around him to find plenty of entertainment
and knowledge.

Azarian: An Episode. By Harriet E. Prescott, Author of "The Amber Gods," etc. Boston: Ticknor
& Fields.

If one opened the costly album of some rare colorist, and became bewildered amid successive
wreaths of pictured flowers, with hues that seemed to burn, and freshness that seemed fragrant,
one could hardly quarrel with a few stray splashes of purple or carmine spilt heedlessly on
the pages. Such a book is "Azarian"; and if few are so lavish and reckless with their pigments
as Harriet Prescott, it is because few have access to such wealth. If one proceeds from the
theory that all life in New England is to be pictured as bare and pallid, it must seem very
wrong in her to use tints so daring; but if one believes that life here, as elsewhere, may
be passionate as Petrarch and deep as Beethoven, there appears no reason why all descriptive
art should be Quaker-colored.

Nature and cultivation gave to this writer a rare inventive skill, an astonishing subtilty
in the delineation of character, and a style perhaps unequalled among contemporaries in a certain
Keats-like affluence. Yet her plots have usually been melodramatic, her characters morbid,
and her descriptions overdone. These are undoubtedly great offences, and have grievously checked
her growing fame. But the American public, so ready to flatter early merit, has itself to thank,
if that flattery prove a pernicious atmosphere. That fatal cheapness of immediate reputation
which stunts most of our young writers, making the rudiments of fame so easy to acquire, and
fame itself so difficult,--which dwarfs our female writers so especially that not one of them,
save Margaret Fuller, has ever yet taken the pains to train herself for first-class literary
work,--has no doubt had a transient influence on Harriet Prescott. Add to this, perhaps, the
common and fatal necessity of authorship which pushes even second-best wares into the market.
It is evident, that, with all the instinct of a student and an artist, she has been a sensation-writer
against her will. The whole structure of "Azarian," which is evidently a work of art and of
love, indicates these higher aspirations, and shows that she is resolved to nourish them, not
by abandoning her own peculiar ground, but by training her gifts and gradually exorcising her
temptations. Like her "Amber Gods," the book rests its strength on its descriptive and analytic
power, not on its events; but, unlike that extraordinary story, it is healthful in its development
and hopeful in its ending. The name of "An Episode" seems to be given to it, not in affectation,
but in humility. It is simply a minute study of character, in the French style, though with
a freshness and sweetness which no Frenchman ever yet succeeded in transferring into language,
and which here leave none of that bad taste in the mouth of which Charlotte Brontè complained.
The main situation is one not new in fiction, being simply unequal love and broken troth, but
it is one never to be portrayed too often or too tenderly, and it is not desecrated, but ennobled
by the handling. It is refreshing to be able to say for Miss Prescott that she absolutely reaches
the end of the book without a suicide or a murder, although the heroine for a moment meditates
the one and goes to the theatre to behold the other. The dialogue, usually a weak point with
this writer, is here for better managed than usual, having her customary piquancy, with less
of disfigurement from flippancy and bad puns. The plot shows none of those alarming pieces
of incongruity and bathos which have marred some of her stories. And one may fancy that it
is not far to seek for the originals of Azarian, Charmian, and Madame Sarator.

