But the Irish were, moreover, a branch of the great Celtic race, whose renown for wisdom, science,
and valor, was spread through all parts, particularly among the Greeks. The few details we
purpose giving on the subject will convince the reader that among the nations of antiquity
they held a prominent position; and not only were they possessed of a civilization of their
own, not despicable even in the eyes of a Roman--of the great Julius  himself--but they were
ever most susceptible of every kind of progress, and consequently eager to adopt all the social
benefits which their intercourse with Rome brought them. At least, they did so as soon as,
acknowledging the superior power of the enemy, they had the good sense to feel that it was
all-important to  imitate him. Hence sprang that Gallo-Roman civilization which  obtained during
the first five or six centuries of the Christian era--a civilization which the barbarians of
the North endeavored to destroy, but to which they themselves finally yielded, by embracing
Christianity, and gradually changing their language and customs.

Everywhere--in Gaul, Italy, Britain, and Ireland--did the Celts manifest that susceptibility
to progress which is the invariable mark of a state antagonistic to barbarism. In this they
totally differed from the Vandals and Huns, whom it took the Church such a dreary period to
conquer, and whom no other power save the religion of Christ could have subdued.

These few words are sufficient for our present purpose. We proceed to show that, in their stubborn
opposition to many a current of European opinion, they acted rightly.

They acted rightly, first of all, in excluding from their course of studies at Bangor, Clonfert,
Armagh, Clonmacnoise, and other places, the subtleties of Greek philosophy, which occasioned
heresies in Europe and Asia during the first ages of the Church, and were the cause of so many
social and political convulsions. By adhering strictly---a little too strictly, perhaps--to
their traditional method of developing thought, they kept error far from their universities,
and presented, in the sixth, seventh, and eighth centuries, the remarkable spectacle in Ireland,
France, Germany, Switzerland, and even Northern Italy, of numerous schools wherein no wrangling
found a place, and whence never issued a single proposition which Rome found reason to censure.
They were at that time the educators of Christian Europe, and not even a breath of suspicion
was ever raised against any one of their innumerable  teachers. If their mind, in general,
did not on that account  attain the acuteness of the French, Italians, or Germans, it was at
all times safer and more guarded. Even their later hostility to the English Pale, after the
eleventh century, was most useful, from its warning against the teachings of prelates sent
from the English Universities of Oxford and Cambridge; and Rome seems to have approved of that
opposition, by using all her power in  appointing to Irish sees, even within the Pale, prelates
chosen from the Augustinian, Dominican, Franciscan, and Carmelite orders, in preference to
secular ecclesiastics educated in the great seats of English learning.

Thus the Irish, by opening their schools gratuitously to all Europe, but chiefly to Anglo-Saxon
England, were not only of immense service to the Church, but showed how fully they appreciated
the benefits of true civilization, and how ready they were to extend it by their traditional
teaching. Nor did they confine themselves to receiving scholars in their midst: they sent abroad,
during those ages, armies of zealous missionaries and learned men to Christianize the heathen,
or educate the newly-converted Germanic tribes in Merovingian and Carlovingian Gaul, in Anglo-Saxon
and Scandinavian England, in Lombardian Italy, in the very hives of those ferocious tribes
which peopled the ever-moving and at that time convulsed Germany.

II. They were right in refusing to submit to the Scandinavian yoke, and accept from those who
would impose it their taste for city life, and the spirit of maritime enterprise and extensive
commerce. We shall see that this was at the bottom of their two centuries of struggle with
the Danes; that they were animated throughout that conflict by their ardent zeal for the Christian
religion, which the Northmen came to destroy. There is no need of dwelling on this point, as
we are not aware that any one, even their bitterest  enemies, has found fault with them here.

III. They were right in opposing feudalism, and steadily refusing to admit it on their soil.
Feudal Europe beheld with surprise the inhabitants of a small island on the verge of the Western
Continent level to the ground the feudal castles as soon as they were built; reject with scorn
the invaders' claim to their soil, after they had signed papers which they could not understand;
hold fast to their patriarchal usages in opposition to the new-born European notions of paramount
kings, of dukes, earls, counts, and viscounts; fight for four hundred years against what the
whole of Europe had everywhere else accepted, and conquer in the end; so that the Irish of
to-day can say with just pride, "Our island has never submitted to mediaeval feudalism."

And hence the island has escaped the modern results of the system, which we all witness to-day
in the terrible hostility of class arrayed against class, the poor against the rich, the lower
orders against the higher. The opposition in Ireland between the oppressed and the oppressor
is of a very different character, is we shall see later. But the fact is, that the clan system,
with all its striking defects, had at least this immense advantage, that the clansmen did not
look upon their chieftains as "lords and masters," but as men of the same blood, true relations,
and friends; neither did the heads of the clans look on their men as villeins, serfs, or chattels,
but as companions-in-arms, foster-brothers, supporters, and allies. Hence the opposition which
exists in our days throughout Europe between class and class, has never existed in Ireland.
Let a son of their old chiefs, if one can yet be found, go back to them, even but for a few
days, after centuries of estrangement, and they are ready to welcome him yet, as a loyal nation
would welcome her long-absent king, as a family would receive a father it esteemed lost. We
knowing what manner a son of a French McMahon was lately received among them.

All hostility is reserved for the foreigner, the invader, the oppressor of centuries, because,
in the opinion of the natives, these have no real right to dwell on a soil they have impoverished,
and which they tried in vain to enslave. This, at least, is their feeling. But the sons of
the soil, whether rich or poor, high or low, are all united in a holy brotherhood. This state
of things they have preserved by the exclusion of feudalism.

IV. The Irish were right in not accepting from Europe what is known as the "revival of learning;"
at least, as carried almost to the excess of modern paganism by its first promoters.

This "revival" did not reach Ireland. Many will, doubtless, attribute this fact to the almost
total exclusion then supposed to exist of Ireland from all European intercourse. It would be
a great error to imagine such to have been the cause. Indeed, at that very time, Ireland was
more in daily contact with Italy, France, and Spain, than had been the case since the eighth
century.

If the Irish were right in holding steadfast to the line of their traditional studies, in rejecting
the city life and commercial spirit of the Danes, in opposing Anglo-Norman feudalism, and,
finally, in not accepting the more than doubtful advantages flowing from the literary revival
of the fifteenth century; if, in all this, they did not oppose true progress, but merely wished
to advance in the peculiar path opened up to them by the Christianity which they had received
more fully, with more earnestness, and with a view to a greater development of the supernatural
idea, than any other European nation--then, beyond all other modes, did they display their
strength of will and their undying national vitality in their resistance to Protestantism--a
resistance which has been called opposition to progress, but the success of which to-day proves
beyond question that they were right.

It was, the reader may remark, a resistance to the whole of Northern Europe, wherein their
island was included. For, the whole of Northern Europe rebelled against the Church at the 
beginning of the sixteenth century, to enter upon a new road of progress and civilization,
as it has been called, ending finally in the frightful abyss of materialism and atheism which
now gapes under the feet of modern nations--an abyss in whose yawning womb nullus ordo, sed
sempiternus horror habitat. The end of that progress is now plain enough: political and social
convulsions, without any other probable issue than final anarchy, unless nations consent at
last to retrace their steps and reorganize Christendom.

But this was not apparent to the eyes of ordinary thinkers in the sixteenth and seventeenth
centuries. Only a few great minds saw the logical consequences of the premises laid down by
Protestantism, and predicted something of what we now see.

The Irish was the only northern nation which, to a man, opposed the terrible delusion, and,
at the cost of all that is dear, waged against it a relentless war.

"To a man;" for, in spite of all the wiles of Henry VIII., who brought every resource of his
political talent into play, in order to win over to his side the great chieftains of the nation--in
spite of all the efforts of Elizabeth, who either tried to overcome their resistance by her
numerous armies, or, by the allurements of her court, strove her best, like her father, to
woo to her  allegiance the great leaders of the chief clans, particularly O'Neill  of Tyrone--at
the end of her long reign, after nearly a hundred years of Protestantism, only sixty Irishmen
of all classes had  received the new religion.

At first, the struggle assumed a character more political than religious, and Queen Elizabeth
did her best to give it, apparently, that character. But for her, religion meant politics;
and, had the  Irish consented to accept the religious changes introduced by her father and
herself, there would have been no question of  "rebellion," and no army would have been sent
to crush it. The Irish chieftains knew this well; hence, whenever the queen came to terms with
them, the first article on which they invariably  insisted was the freedom of their religion.

But, under the Stuarts, and later on, the mask was entirely thrown aside, and the question
between England and Ireland reduced itself, we may say, to one of religion merely. All the
political entanglements in which the Irish found themselves involved by their loyalty to the
Stuarts and their opposition to the Roundheads, never constituted the chief difficulty of their
position. They were "Papists:" this was their great crime in the eyes of their enemies. Cromwell
would certainly never have endeavored to exterminate them as he did, had they apostatized and
become ranting Puritans. One of our main points in the following pages will be to give prominence
to this view of the question. If it had been understood from the first, the army of heroes
who died for their God and their country would long ere this have been enrolled in the number
of Christian martyrs.

The subsequent policy of England, chiefly after the English Revolution of 1688 and the defeat
of James II., clearly shows the soundness of our interpretation of history. The "penal code,"
under Queen Anne, and later on, at least has the merit of being free from hypocrisy and cant.
It is an open religious persecution, as, in fact, it had been from the beginning.

We shall have, therefore, before our eyes the great spectacle of a nation suffering a martyrdom
of three centuries. All the  persecutions of the Christians under the Roman emperors pale before
this long era of penalty and blood. The Irish, by numerous decrees of English kings and parliaments,
were deprived of every thing which a man not guilty of crime has a right to enjoy. Land, citizenship,
the right of education, of acquiring property, of living on their own soil--every thing was
denied them, and death in every form was decreed, in every line of the new Protestant code,
to men, women, and even children, whose only crime consisted in remaining faithful to their
religion.

But chiefly during the Cromwellian war and the nine years of the Protector's reign were they
doomed to absolute, unrelenting  destruction. Never has any thing in the whole history of mankind
equalled it in horror, unless the devastation of Asia and Eastern Europe under Zengis and Timour.

There is, therefore, at the bottom of the Irish character, hidden under an appearance of light-headedness,
mutability of feeling--nay, at times, futility and even childishness--a depth of according
to the eternal laws which God gave to mankind. Nothing else is in their mind; they are pursuing
no guilty and shadowy Utopia. Who knows, then, whether their small island may not yet become
the beacon-light which, guiding other nations, shall at a future day save Europe from the universal
shipwreck which threatens her? The providential mission of Ireland is far from being accomplished,
and men may yet see that not in vain has she been tried so long in  the crucible of affliction.

Another part of the providential plan as affecting her will show itself, and excite our admiration,
in the latter portion of the work we undertake.

The Irish are no longer confined to the small island which gave them birth. From the beginning
of their great woes, they have  known the bitterness of exile. Their nobility were the first
to leave in a body a land wherein they could no longer exist; and, during the seventeenth and
eighteenth centuries, they made the Irish name illustrious on all the battle-fields of Europe.
At the same time, many of their priests and monks, unable longer to labor among their countrymen,
spent their lives in the libraries, of  Italy, Belgium, and Spain, and gave to the world those
immense works so precious now to the antiquarian and historian. Every one knows what Montalembert,
in particular, found in them. They may be said to have preserved the annals of their nation
from total ruin; and the names of the O'Clearys, of Ward and Wadding, of Colgan and Lynch,
are becoming better known and appreciated every day, as  their voluminous works are more studied
and better understood.

But much more remarkable still is the immense spread of the people itself during the present
age, so fruitful in happy results for the Church of Christ and the good of mankind. We may
say that the labors of the Irish missionaries during the seventh and eighth  centuries are
to-day eclipsed by the truly missionary work of a whole nation spread now over North America,
the West India Islands, the East Indies, and the wilds of Australia; in a word, wherever the
English language is spoken. Whatever may have been the visible causes of that strange "exodus,"
there is an invisible cause clear enough to any one who meditates on the designs of God over
his  Church. There is no presumption in attributing to God himself what could only come from
Him. The catholicity of the Church was to be spread and preserved through and in all those
vast regions colonized now by the adventurous English nation; and no better, no more  simple
way of effecting this could be conceived than the one whose workings we see in those colonies
so distant from the mother-country.

This, for the time being, is the chief providential mission of Ireland, and it is truly a noble
one, undertaken and executed in a noble manner by so many thousands, nay millions, of men and
women--poor, indeed, in worldly goods when they start on their career, but rich in faith; and
it is as true now as it has ever  been from the beginning of Christianity, that haec est victoria
nostra, fides vestra.

These few words of our Preface would not suffice to prepare the reader for the high importance
of this stupendous phenomenon. We We purpose, therefore, devoting our second chapter to the
subject,  as a preparation for the very interesting details we shall furnish  subsequently,
as it is proper that, from the very threshold, an  idea may be formed of the edifice, and of
the entire proportions it is destined to assume.

We have so far sketched, as briefly as possible, what the following pages will develop; and
the reader may now begin to understand what we said at starting, that no other nation in Europe
offers so interesting an object of study and reflection. 

Plato has said that the most meritorious spectacle in the eyes of God was that of "a just man
struggling with adversity." What must it be when a whole nation, during nine long ages, offers
to Heaven the most sublime virtues in the midst of the extremest trials? Are not the great
lessons which such a contest presents worthy of study and admiration?

We purpose studying them, although we cannot pretend to render full justice to such a theme.
And, returning for a moment to the considerations with which we started, we can truly say that,
in  the whole range of modern history, it would be difficult, if not  impossible, to find a
national life to compare with that of poor,  despised Ireland. Neither do we pretend to write
the history itself; our object is more humble: we merely pen some considerations suggested
naturally by the facts which we suppose to be already known, with the purpose of arriving at
a true appreciation of the character of the people. For it is the people itself we study; the
reader will meet with comparatively few individual names.

We shall find, moreover, that the nation has never varied. Its  history is an unbroken series
of the same heroic facts, the same terrible misfortunes. The actors change continually; the
outward circumstances at every moment present new aspects, so that the interest never flags;
but the spirit of the struggle is ever the same, and the latest descendants of the first O'Neills
and O'Donnells burn with the same sacred fire, and are inspired by the same heroic aspirations,
as their fathers.

Happily, the gloom is at length lighted up by returning day. The contest has lost its ferocity,
and we are no longer surrounded by the deadly shade which obscured the sky a hundred years
ago. Then it was hard to believe that the nation could ever rise; her final success seemed
almost an impossibility. We now see that those who then despaired sinned against Providence,
which waited for its own time to arrive and vindicate its ways. And it is chiefly on account
of the bright hope which begins to dawn that our subject should possess for all a lively interest,
and fill the Catholic heart with glowing sympathy and ardent thankfulness to God.

CONTENTS

   I  The Celtic Race

  II  The World Under The Lead Of European Races.--Mission Of The
      Irish Race In The Movement

 III  The Irish Better Prepared To Receive Christianity Than Other Nations

  IV  How the Irish received Christianity 

   V  The Christian Irish and the Pagan Danes

  VI  The Irish Free-Clans and Anglo-Norman Feudalism

 VII  Ireland separated from Europe.--A Triple Episode

VIII  The Irish and the Tudors.--Henry VIII.

  IX  The Irish and the Tudors.--Elizabeth.--The Undaunted Nobility.--The
      Suffering Church

   X  England prepared for the Reception of Protestantism--Ireland not

  XI  The Irish and the Stuarts.--Loyalty and Confiscation

 XII  A Century of Gloom.--The Penal Laws

XIII  Resurrection.--Delusive Hopes

 XIV  Resurrection.--Emigration

  XV  The "Exodus" and its Effects

 XVI  Moral Force all-sufficient for the Resurrection of Ireland

CHAPTER I

The Celtic Race.

Nations which preserve, as it were, a perpetual youth, should be studied from their origin.
Never having totally changed, some of their present features may be recognized at the very
cradle of their existence, and the strangeness of the fact sets out in bolder relief their
actual peculiarities. Hence we consider it to our purpose to examine the Celtic race first,
as we may know it from ancient records: What it was; what it did; what were its distinctive
features; what its manners and chief characteristics. A strong light will thus be thrown even
on the Irish of our own days. Our words must necessarily be few on so extensive a subject;
but, few as they are, they will not be unimportant in our investigations.

In all the works of God, side by side with the general order resulting from seemingly symmetric
laws, an astonishing variety of details everywhere shows itself, producing on the mind of man
the idea of infinity, as effectually as the wonderful aspect of a seemingly boundless universe.
This variety is visible, first in the heavenly bodies, as they are called; star differing from
star, planet from planet; even the most minute asteroids never showing themselves to us two
alike, but always offering differences in size, of form, of composition.

This variety is visible to us chiefly on our globe; in the infinite multiplicity of its animal
forms, in the wonderful insect tribes, and in the brilliant shells floating in the ocean; visible
also in the incredible number of trees, shrubs, herbs, down to the most minute vegetable organisms,
spread with such reckless abundance on the surface of our dwelling; visible, finally, in the
infinity of different shapes assumed by inorganic matter.

But what is yet more wonderful and seemingly unaccountable is that, taking every species of
being in particular, and looking at any two individuals of the same species, we would consider
it an astonishing effect of chance, were we to meet with two objects of our study  perfectly
alike. The mineralogist notices it, if he finds in the same group of crystals two altogether
similar; the botanist would express his astonishment if, on comparing two specimens of the
same plant, he found no difference between them. The same may be said of birds, of reptiles,
of mammalia, of the same kind. A close observer will even easily detect dissimilarities between
the double organs of the same person, between the two eyes of his neighbor, the two hands of
a friend, the two feet of a stranger whom he meets.

It is therefore but consistent with general analogy that in the moral as well as in the physical
faculties of man, the same ever-recurring variety should appear, in the features of the face,
in the shape of the limbs, in the moving of the muscles, as well as in the activity of thought,
in the mobility of humor, in the combination of passions, propensities, sympathies, and aversions.

But, at the same time, with all these peculiarities perceptible in  individuals, men, when
studied attentively, show themselves in groups, as it were, distinguished from other groups
by peculiarities of their own, which are generally called characteristics of race; and although,
according to various systems, these characteristics are made to expand or contract at will,
to serve an a priori  purpose, and sustain a preconcerted theory, yet there are, with respect
to them, startling facts which no one can gainsay, and which are worthy of serious attention.

Two of these facts may be stated in the following propositions:

I. At the cradle of a race or nation there must have been a type imprinted on its progenitor,
and passing from him to all his posterity, which distinguishes it from all others.

II. The character of a race once established, cannot be eradicated without an almost total
disappearance of the people.

The proofs of these propositions would require long details altogether foreign to our present
purpose, as we are not writing on ethnology. We will take them for granted, as otherwise we
may say that the whole history of man would be unintelligible. If, however, writers are found
who apply to their notion of race all the inflexibility of physical laws, and who represent
history as a rigid system of facts chained together by a kind of fatality; if a school has
sprung up among historians to do away with the moral responsibility of individuals and of nations,
it is scarcely necessary to tell the reader that nothing is so far from our mind as to adopt
ideas destructive, in fact, to all morality.

It is our belief that there is no more "necessity" in the leanings of race with respect to
nations, than there is in the corrupt instincts of our fallen nature with respect to individuals.
The teachings of faith have clearly decided this in the latter case, and the consequence of
this authoritative decision carries with it the determination of the former.

According to the doctrine of St. Augustine, nations are rewarded or punished in this world,
because there is no future existence for them; but the fact of rewards and punishments awarded
them shows that their life is not a series of necessary sequences such as prevail in physics,
and that the manifestations or phenomena of history, past, present, or future, cannot resolve
themselves into the workings of absolute laws.

Race, in our opinion, is only one of those mysterious forces which play upon the individual
from the cradle to the grave, which affect alike all the members of the same family, and give
it a peculiarity of its own, without, however, interfering in the least with the moral freedom
of the individual; and as in him there is free-will, so also in the family itself to which
he belongs may God find cause for approval or disapproval. The heart of a Christian ought to
be too full of gratitude and respect for Divine Providence to take any other view of history.

It would be presumptuous on our part to attempt an explanation of the object God proposed to
himself in originating such a diversity in human society. We can only say that it appears He
did not wish all mankind to be ever subject to the same rule, the same government and institutions.
His Church alone was to bear the character of universality. Outside of her, variety was to
be the rule in human affairs as in all things else. A universal despotism was never to become
possible.

This at once explains why the posterity of Japhet is so different from that of Sem and of Cham.

