Thor said he would row as far out as ever Hymir wanted, and he thought he might not be the
first to want to row back. While he said this he was in such a rage that he had much to do
to keep himself from throwing the hammer at once at the giant's head, but he calmed himself
thinking that he might soon try his strength elsewhere. He asked Hymir what bait he should
use, but Hymir told him to look out for himself. Then Thor went up to a herd of oxen belonging
to Hymir, and capturing the largest bull, called Himinbrjot, he wrung off its head, and went
with it to the sea-shore. Hymir launched the skiff, and Thor, sitting down in the after-part,
rowed with two oars so that Hymir, who rowed in the fore-part, wondered to see how fast the
boat went on. At length he said they had arrived at the place where he was accustomed to fish
for flat fish, but Thor told him they had better go on further. So they rowed till Hymir cried
out that if they proceeded further they might be in danger from the Midgard serpent. In spite
of this, Thor said he would row further, and so he rowed on, disregarding Hymir's words. When
he laid down his oars, he took out a very strong fishing line to which was a no less strong
hook. On this he fixed the bull's head and cast it over into the sea. The bait soon reached
the ground, and then truly Thor deceived the Midgard serpent no less than Utgard-Loki deceived
Thor when he gave him the serpent to lift in his hand. The Midgard serpent gaped wide at the
bait, and the hook stuck fast in his mouth. When the worm felt this he tugged at the hook so
that Thor's hands were dashed against the side of the boat. Then Thor got angry, and, collecting
to himself all his divine strength, he pulled so hard that his feet went through the bottom
of the boat and down to the sea's bottom. Then he drew the serpent up on board. No one can
be said to have seen an ugly sight who did not see that. Thor threw wrathful looks on the serpent,
and the monster staring at him from below cast out venom at him. The giant Hymir, it is said,
turned pale when he saw the serpent, quaked, and, seeing that the sea ran in and out of the
skiff, just as Thor raised aloft his mace, took out his knife and cut the line so that the
serpent at once sank under the water. Thor cast his mace at the serpent, and some say it cut
off its head at the bottom, but it is more true that the Midgard serpent is yet alive lying
at the bottom of the ocean. With his fist Thor struck Hymir such a blow over the ear that the
giant tumbled headlong into the water, and Thor then waded to land.

THE DEATH OF BALDUR.

Baldur the Good had dreams which forewarned him that his life was in danger, and he told the
gods of them. The gods took counsel together what should be done, and it was agreed that they
should conjure away all danger that might threaten him. When this had been done the gods used
to divert themselves, Baldur standing up in the assembly, and all the others throwing at him,
hewing at him, and smiting him with stones, for, do all they would, he received no hurt, and
in this sport all enjoyed themselves.

Loki, however, looked on with envy when he saw that Baldur was not hurt. So he assumed the
form of a woman, and set out to Fensalir to Frigga. Frigga asked if the stranger knew what
the gods did when they met. He answered that they all shot at Baldur and he was not hurt.

"No weapon, nor tree may hurt Baldur," answers Frigga, "I have taken an oath of them all not
to do so."

"What," said the pretended woman, "have all things then sworn to spare Baldur?"

"There is only one little twig which grows to the east of Valhalla, which is called the mistletoe.
Of that I took no oath, for it seemed to me too young and feeble to do any hurt."

Then the strange woman departed, and Loki having found the mistletoe, cut it off, and went
to the assembly. There he found Hodur standing apart by himself, for he was blind. Then said
Loki to him--

"Why do you not throw at Baldur?"

"Because," said he, "I am blind and cannot see him, and besides I have nothing to throw."

"Do as the others," said Loki, "and honour Baldur as the rest do. I will direct your aim. Throw
this shaft at him."

Hodur took the mistletoe and, Loki directing him, aimed at Baldur. The aim was good. The shaft
pierced him through, and Baldur fell dead upon the earth. Surely never was there a greater
misfortune either among gods or men.

When the gods saw that Baldur was dead then they were silent, aghast, and stood motionless.
They looked on one another, and were all agreed as to what he deserved who had done the deed,
but out of respect to the place none dared avenge Baldur's death. They broke the silence at
length with wailing, words failing them with which to express their sorrow. Odin, as was right,
was more sorrowful than any of the others, for he best knew what a loss the gods had sustained.

At last when the gods had recovered themselves, Frigga asked--

"Who is there among the gods who will win my love and good-will? That shall he have if he will
ride to Hel, and seek Baldur, and offer Hela a reward if she will let Baldur come home to Asgard."

Hermod the nimble, Odin's lad, said he would make the journey. So he mounted Odin's horse,
Sleipner, and went his way.

The gods took Baldur's body down to the sea-shore, where stood Hringhorn, Baldur's vessel,
the biggest in the world. When the gods tried to launch it into the water, in order to make
on it a funeral fire for Baldur, the ship would not stir. Then they despatched one to Jotunheim
for the sorceress called Hyrrokin, who came riding on a wolf with twisted serpents by way of
reins. Odin called for four Berserkir to hold the horse, but they could not secure it till
they had thrown it to the ground. Then Hyrrokin went to the stem of the ship, and set it afloat
with a single touch, the vessel going so fast that fire sprang from the rollers, and the earth
trembled. Then Thor was so angry that he took his hammer and wanted to cast it at the woman's
head, but the gods pleaded for her and appeased him. The body of Baldur being placed on the
ship, Nanna, the daughter of Nep, Baldur's wife, seeing it, died of a broken heart, so she
was borne to the pile and thrown into the fire.

Thor stood up and consecrated the pile with Mjolnir. A little dwarf, called Litur, ran before
his feet, and Thor gave him a push, and threw him into the fire, and he was burnt. Many kinds
of people came to this ceremony. With Odin came Frigga and the Valkyrjor with his ravens. Frey
drove in a car drawn by the boar, Gullinbursti or Slidrugtanni. Heimdall rode the horse Gulltopp,
and Freyja drove her cats. There were also many of the forest-giants and mountain-giants there.
On the pile Odin laid the gold ring called Draupnir, giving it the property that every ninth
night it produces eight rings of equal weight. In the same pile was also consumed Baldur's horse.

For nine nights and days Hermod rode through deep valleys, so dark that he could see nothing.
Then he came to the river Gjöll which he crossed by the bridge which is covered with shining
gold. The maid who keeps the bridge is called Modgudur. She asked Hermod his name and family,
and told him that on the former day there had ridden over the bridge five bands of dead men.

"They did not make my bridge ring as you do, and you have not the hue of the dead. Why ride
you thus on the way to Hel?"

He said--

"I ride to Hel to find Baldur. Have you seen him on his way to that place?"

"Baldur," answered she, "has passed over the bridge, but the way to Hel is below to the north."

Hermod rode on till he came to the entrance of Hel, which was guarded by a grate. He dismounted,
looked to the girths of his saddle, mounted, and clapping his spurs into the horse, cleared
the grate easily. Then he rode on to the hall and, dismounting, entered it. There he saw his
brother, Baldur, seated in the first place, and there Hermod stopped the night.

In the morning he saw Hela, and begged her to let Baldur ride home with him, telling her how
much the gods had sorrowed over his death. Hela told him she would test whether it were true
that Baldur was so much loved.

"If," said she, "all things weep for him, then he shall return to the gods, but if any speak
against him or refuse to weep, then he shall remain in Hel."

Then Hermod rose to go, and Baldur, leading him out of the hall, gave him the ring, Draupnir,
which he wished Odin to have as a keepsake. Nanna also sent Frigga a present, and a ring to Fulla.

Hermod rode back, and coming to Asgard related all he had seen and heard. Then the gods sent
messengers over all the world seeking to get Baldur brought back again by weeping. All wept,
men and living things, earth, stones, trees, and metals, all weeping as they do when they are
subjected to heat after frost. Then the messengers came back again, thinking they had done
their errand well. On their way they came to a cave wherein sat a hag named Thaukt. The messengers
prayed her to assist in weeping Baldur out of Hel.

"I will weep dry tears," answered she, "over Baldur's pyre. What gain I by the son of man,
be he live or dead? Let Hela hold what she has."

It was thought that this must have been Loki, Laufey's son, he who has ever wrought such harm
to the gods.

THE PUNISHMENT OF LOKI.

The gods were so angry with Loki that he had to run away and hide himself in the mountains,
and there he built a house which had four doors, so that he could see around him on every side.
He would often in the day-time change himself into a salmon and hide in the water called Franangursfors,
and he thought over what trick the gods might devise to capture him there. One day while he
sat in his house, he took flax and yarn, and with it made meshes like those of a net, a fire
burning in front of him. Then he became aware that the gods were near at hand, for Odin had
seen out of Hlidskjalf where he was. Loki sprang up, threw his work into the fire, and went
to the river. When the gods came to the house, the first that entered was Kvasir, who was the
most acute of them all. In the hot embers he saw the ashes of a net, such as is used in fishing,
and he told the gods of it, and they made a net like that which they saw in the ashes. When
it was ready they went to the river and cast the net in, Thor holding one end and the rest
of the gods the other, and so they drew it. Loki travelled in front of it and lay down between
two stones so that the net went over him, but the gods felt that something living had been
against the net. Then they cast the net a second time, binding up in it a weight so that nothing
could pass under it. Loki travelled before it till he saw the sea in front of him. Then he
leapt over the top of the net and again made his way up the stream. The gods saw this, so they
once more dragged the stream, while Thor waded in the middle of it. So they went to the sea.

Then Loki saw in what a dangerous situation he was. He must risk his life if he swam out to
sea. The only other alternative was to leap over the net. That he did, jumping as quickly as
he could over the top cord.

Thor snatched at him, and tried to hold him, but he slipped through his hand, and would have
escaped, but for his tail, and this is the reason why salmon have their tails so thin.

Loki being captured, they took him to a certain cavern, and they took three rocks, through
each of which they bored a hole. Then they took Loki's sons Vali and Nari, and having changed
Vali into a wolf, he tore his brother Nari into pieces. Then the gods took his intestines and
bound Loki with them to the three stones, and they changed the cord into bands of iron. Skadi
then took a serpent and suspended it over Loki's head so that the venom drops from it on to
his face. Siguna, Loki's wife, stands near him, and holds a dish receiving the venom as it
falls, and when the dish is full she goes out and pours its contents away. While she is doing
this, however, the venom falls on Loki, and causes him such intense pain that he writhes so
that the earth is shaken as if by an earthquake.

There he lies till Ragnarök (the twilight of the gods).

ORIGIN OF TIIS LAKE.

A troll had once taken up his abode near the village of Kund, in the high bank on which the
church now stands, but when the people about there had become pious, and went constantly to
church, the troll was dreadfully annoyed by their almost incessant ringing of bells in the
steeple of the church. He was at last obliged, in consequence of it, to take his departure,
for nothing has more contributed to the emigration of the troll-folk out of the country, than
the increasing piety of the people, and their taking to bell-ringing. The troll of Kund accordingly
quitted the country, and went over to Funen, where he lived for some time in peace and quiet.
Now it chanced that a man who had lately settled in the town of Kund, coming to Funen on business,
met this same troll on the road.

"Where do you live?" asked the troll.

Now there was nothing whatever about the troll unlike a man, so he answered him, as was the truth--

"I am from the town of Kund."

"So?" said the troll, "I don't know you then. And yet I think I know every man in Kund. Will
you, however," said he, "be so kind as to take a letter for me back with you to Kund?"

The man, of course, said he had no objection.

The troll put a letter into his pocket and charged him strictly not to take it out until he
came to Kund church. Then he was to throw it over the churchyard wall, and the person for whom
it was intended would get it.

The troll then went away in great haste, and with him the letter went entirely out of the man's
mind. But when he was come back to Zealand he sat down by the meadow where Tiis lake now is,
and suddenly recollected the troll's letter. He felt a great desire to look at it at least,
so he took it out of his pocket and sat a while with it in his hands, when suddenly there began
to dribble a little water out of the seal. The letter now unfolded itself and the water came
out faster and faster, and it was with the utmost difficulty the poor man was able to save
his life, for the malicious troll had enclosed a whole lake in the letter.

The troll, it is plain, had thought to avenge himself on Kund church by destroying it in this
manner, but God ordered it so that the lake chanced to run out in the great meadow where it
now stands.

THERE ARE SUCH WOMEN.

There was once upon a time a man and his wife, and they wanted to sow their fields, but they
had neither seed nor money to buy it with. However, they had one cow, and so they decided that
the man should drive it to the town and sell it, so that they might buy seed with the money.
When the time came, however, the woman was afraid to let her husband take the cow, fearing
he would spend the money in drink. So she set off herself with the cow, and took a hen with
her also.

When she was near the town she met a butcher, who said--

"Do you want to sell the cow, mother?"

"Yes," answered she, "I do."

"How much do you want for it?"

"I want a mark for the cow, and you shall have the hen for sixty marks."

"Well," said he, "I have no need of the hen. You can get rid of that when you come to the town,
but I will give you a mark for the cow."

She sold him the cow and got the mark for it, but when she came to the town she could find
no one who would give her sixty marks for a tough lean hen. So she went back to the butcher
and said--

"I cannot get this hen off, master, so you had better take it also with the cow."

"We will see about it," said the butcher. So he gave her something to eat, and gave her so
much brandy that she became tipsy and lost her senses, and fell asleep.

When he saw that, the butcher dipped her in a barrel of tar, and then laid her on a heap of
feathers.

When she awoke she found herself feathered all over, and wondered at herself.

"Is it me or some one else?" said she. "No, it cannot be me. It must be a strange bird. How
shall I find out whether it is me or not? Oh, I know. When I get home, if the calves lick me,
and the dog does not bark at me, then it is me myself."

The dog had no sooner seen her than he began to bark, as if there were thieves and robbers
in the yard.

"Now," said she, "I see it is not me."

She went to the cow-house but the calves would not lick her, for they smelt the strong tar.

"No," said she, "I see it cannot be me. It must be some strange bird."

So she crept up to the top of the barn, and began to flap her arms as if they had been wings,
and tried to fly. Her husband saw her, so he came out with his gun and took aim.

"Don't shoot, don't shoot," called his wife. "It is me."

"Is it you?" said the man. "Then don't stand there like a goat. Come down and tell me what
account you can give of yourself."

She crept down again; but she had not a shilling, for she had lost the mark the butcher had
given her while she was drunk.

When the man heard that he was very angry, and declared he would leave her, and never come
back again until he had found three women as big fools as his wife.

So he set off, and when he had gone a little way he saw a woman who ran in and out of a newly
built wood hut with an empty sieve. Every time she ran in she threw her apron over the sieve,
as if she had something in it.

"Why do you do that, mother?" asked he.

"Why, I am only carrying in a little sun," said she, "but I don't understand how it is, when
I am outside I get the sunshine in the sieve, but when I get in I have somehow lost it. When
I was in my old hut I had plenty of sunshine, though I never carried it in. I wish I knew some
one who would give me sunshine. I would give him three hundred dollars."

"Have you an axe?" asked the man. "If so I will get you sunshine."

She gave him an axe and he cut some windows in the hut, for the carpenter had forgotten them.
Then the sun shone in, and the woman gave him three hundred dollars.

"That's one," said the man, and he set out once more.

Some time after he came to a house in which he heard a terrible noise and bellowing. He went
in and saw a woman who was beating her husband across the head with a stick with all her might.
Over the man's head there was a shirt in which there was no hole for his head to go through.

"Mother," said he, "will you kill your husband?"

"No," said she, "I only want a hole for his head in the shirt."

The man called out and, struggling, cried--

"Heaven preserve and comfort all such as have new shirts! If any one would only teach my wife
some new way to make a head-hole in them I would gladly give him three hundred dollars."

"That shall soon be done. Give me a pair of scissors," said the other.

The woman gave him the scissors, and he cut a hole in the shirt for the man's head to go through,
and took the three hundred dollars.

"That is number two," said he to himself.

After some time he came to a farm-house, where he thought he would rest a while. When he went
in the woman said--

"Where do you come from, father?"

"I am from Ringerige (Paradise)," said he.

"Ah! dear, dear! Are you from Himmerige (Heaven)?" said she. "Then you will know my second
husband, Peter; happy may he be!"

The woman had had three husbands.